4312838330	While this did feel like the weakest of the three books, I found the playful take on the Clue movie at the end very fun and a worthy ending to the series.
4411875274	Well, I read this in one day so it’s obviously easy to be sucked into. Unfortunately it was probably the weakest in the series for multiple reasons, but the echoing of the multiple movie endings really pulled it down. On screen it works because you watch all the little differences, on the page it gets boring to read very similar prose in quick succession.The flash forward didn’t really work for me either, partially because it was mostly focused on only two members of the group who were honestly the least interesting to me and partially because (view spoiler)[it undid Plum & Mustard for no apparent reason? (hide spoiler)]. I will be disregarding the latter and just assuming Orchid got things wrong.All that said, this was a fun series to end the year with.
4133514633	Kinda anticlimactic for me, though it doesn't help that REALLY this is a series where you should probably read the books back to back (or just have a better memory than I do) and I read them with a year in between each installment.(view spoiler)[Maybe it's a nod to the movie or something (I haven't seen it), but the alternate endings REALLY didn't work for me. I don't think you can do that in the last book in the series.Also I don't think the Vaughn reveal worked because of course we were expecting that all along. (hide spoiler)]
4135944141	2.5 starsI am rounding up because this was still super compelling, even if I wasn't enjoying it all that much. I remembered almost all the details from book 1, but had somehow forgotten nearly everything from book 2. I don't choose how my brain works. And I don't think the author did a particularly good job of recapping past events, as I was confused for the better half of the book. I didn't remember Orchid being quite so ... annoying and obnoxious, and of course everyone saw the very final reveal coming all along. If that had not been the case, I would've eaten my shoe. The alternate endings were ... also there. They frustrated me because who thought that was a good idea? It just did not make any sense to throw that in there. This was a trilogy I liked, but the lukewarm final installment is dragging my overall enjoyment down a bit. Think I'll stick to the board game from now on.
4318560301	A celebration of the Clue franchise with welcome lore and great character arcs!In the Ballroom with the Candlestick is the final book (supposedly though hoping to see more of these characters) in the Clue Mystery trilogy. We pick up shortly after the events of In the Study with the Wrench with the Murder Crew at a now depleted Blackbrook Academy. By having a series of murders from the previous books drive most of the students away, you have a believable "isolated closed circle mystery" involving a small group of individuals composing of victims and suspects. The book does a good job of building on characters we have met briefly before (Mustard's roommate, Tanner) and involving them into the overall mystery surrounding a former inventor student of Blackbrook and the history of exploiting the work of the students. Peterfreund's weaving through perspectives pays off big time at the end and most of the characters get satisfying conclusions to their arcs.The favorites here are Finn Plum, Mustard and Scarlett and I wish we had more time with those characters. I cared less about Orchid and Greene but they are the main characters and one is tied to the overarching mystery. Beth Peacock is the one who ends up getting short changed and has the briefest POV time.Overall a great end to the trilogy but wouldn't mind seeing Murder Crew, college edition with Peterfreund at the helm.
5929523774	This series got steadily more "YA angst" as it went along, and there was just too much about FEELINGS and "coming out" blah blah blah and not enough mystery for me. I'm here to find out how the mystery ends, not listen to characters go on about each other's beautiful eyes or whatever. A fun concept, but it just didn't quite come together for me.
6106918692	Now was legitimately the wildest book I have ever read. What a crazy ending I'm still a little confused....But it was good
4326771723	4.5 stars.Book 3 of the Clue series! This trilogy was a really fun read. The Murder Crew is back at it, and it’s prom time. Who did it? No spoilers here!!!Props to the author for paying homage to the movie at the end of the book!#MurderCrewForever
4382600550	I’m not sure what to say about this except that I thought it was a good ending. I also really liked (and disliked in a good way) the way that the book follows the movie. The pacing was pretty good, but I found it a bit slow at times. I did predict a few things, but the author had me jumping around on so many different theories. It was an enjoyable mystery.
4443087851	This was such a bittersweet read because I love these Clue books (and Peterfreund's books in general) so much that I simultaneously was excited to have the final book in my hands and sad that it had to come to an end. Peterfreund did not disappoint. I flew through this book and could not put it down during the times I read it (I may have come back from my work breaks later than I should have because of it). Finding the little Easter eggs from the Clue film always put a smile on my face and being with these great characters is a good time. I particularly enjoyed the Plum and Mustard chapters if you know what I mean. And of course the biggest Clue movie connection is in the end where Peterfreund gives us three different endings. I may have squealed in excitement when I got to that section. It was so perfect and I absolutely adored this trilogy. Even if she doesn't write more books with these characters, I would love to read more mysteries from her because these books were written so well and were fantastic mysteries.
4324665108	I began reading this series for the promises the author made in an interview with Novel Lives, and having finished it I can assure you it lived up to those promises: wicked fun in a boarding school where everyone has secrets, and an abundance of sly references to the screenplay of the whodunnit comedy Clue from 1985.There are even THREE twist endings to this book, just like the twisty film! Unlike the film, only the third and final 'true' ending is plausible, but that's just my opinion, folks.The satirical, farcical aspects and multiple points of view are definitely two strong appeals of this series. Here's my personal, unapologetically favoritist ranking of my top three Blackbrook Academy student narrators:Beth 'Peacock' Picach the uber competitive blonde tennis player was the most fun. She took herself so seriously while being so over the top and blunt in her reaction to every curveball and perceived slight or suspicious behavior. Plus her ill-fated attempts to play detective were hilarious because she was oblivious so much of the time. But she wanted healthier relationships with herself and others and I applaud her efforts, in addition to her determination to see justice done and protect herself and fellow students. In the end I wanted to give her big moment a standing ovation.My close second favorite was Scarlet Mistry: opportunistic, opinionated, and fierce (okay ruthless is more like it). Yet vulnerable deep down in a way that was touching when she let it show, and just an overall gem. And she was right---people really should have listened to her more because she was the most perceptive person of all. And she was ready to be a good friend if you met her half way.In third place for me, devious inventor Finn Plum. He got more endearing as the series went along as he became less glib and manipulative and more heart-on-his sleeve and also craving open, fulfilling relationships. I was glad he patched up the friendships he largely sabotaged or neglected, and I enjoyed seeing him happy together with his crush in the end, but I won't spoil who that was.Wait, I just realized what my three favorite narrators had in common. They knew their own strengths and they loved themselves, and that set them apart from their peers...and I found it aspirational.I relished little jokes and 'Easter eggs' along the way like how everyone's name (first or last) was also a color, or else a Clue film reference. I wouldn't say the (third and final, true) ending was entirely predictable how it all fit together, but the author did a superb job laying the clues (and not just the red herrings, but that too) if you're smart enough to stay on the trail.My only reason to drop from 5 to 4 stars of sheer joy with this series was a pair of characters I think the books would have been more fun to read without, and they are twins. They drove up the angst level past my personal limit, but your mileage may vary and I hope it will.If you like mysteries, humor, boarding school stories, conspiracies, and Agatha Christie levels of everyone acting suspicious and keeping secrets even though most of them are ultimately decent folks when it counts---don't miss this series.WHEN A WHODUNNIT SERIES KEEPS THE SATIRE AND MURDERS SHARP, SPEAK UP---BOOST THE SIGNAL!
5090976710	I'm a little sad that this series is over :/ I enjoyed this story more than the second book but only by a little. This first half of this book felt a bit confusing and lackluster. I absolutely loved the ending and I think that's what makes me rate it higher. There's a fantastic nod to the movie and I am so grateful that the author included it.
4902622442	This has been the least favorite of this series for me. Dealing with the aftermath of Vaughn’s death is not something the Murder Crew is handling well. I did like the way the end of the book imitated the Clue movie with alternate endings.
7387452659	Mrs. Peacock was a man?!
7377383665	4.5?????? rounded up i guess???
4514902236	Much better than the second book. I loved all the little nods to the Clue movie too, especially the "that's how it COULD have happened...but what about this?" endings.
6944129056	Rating: 4.25 out of 5 stars.
4304239506	4 stars for story, but 5 stars for narration. Great audio book. I love this series and am biased for all the movie references and little delightful bits. Murder crew for life!
4508206468	** spoiler alert ** Honesty it was one of the most worst and best books I’ve ever read. The writing, characters, and overall plot weren’t really good but somehow it was just so entertaining and somehow got me attracted to characters I absolutely hated.Characters Personally, I hate the way the author delt with character development, as I think that’s the only thing keeping the book alive. I feel that scarlet was almost wasted potential and the author could have brought her vulnerability out more. I also felt she was a very inconsistent character with her perspective etc. Sometimes when reading her character I thought I was in someone else’s perspective especially throughout this book. She had a whole lot of character development in book 2 but I feel like she fell off in this one. (Reminds me of Chloe from miraculous) also I get that she’s a bitch, it really didn’t need to be mentioned every five seconds. With peacock I wish the author would have made the diary more personal and maybe focused on her mental health a bit more. I understand that bc she wasn’t sad like orchid, but instead a more outlandish and angry that the others dismissed her issues, but I still feel she could’ve been handled better. Orchid annoyed the shit out of me from the moment she was on the page (book 1). I can’t say much for her character because I never payed any attention. Her struggles annoyed me somehow and I couldn’t feel for her. Mustard I feel was so unimportant. Despite that I feel like he was the only character that had a development in this book (besides Vaughn or at the very end). Even though he was just kinda there in bk1 and 2 (at least from what I remember) I think he definitely progressed in 3. I loved and adored the why his name is mustard scene. I really enjoyed his friendship with tanner and the whole crying scene. That’s what made me really enjoy his character in this book. I will also say that the misogyny aspect could’ve been handled better and it was kinda just another annoying side plot. Also wish he had more personality. Plum was such a flat character. Although I did like him because there was never nothing to hate. He was a character that lied, but he didn’t often lie for bad reasons. He really never needed much progress as a character except maybe just the simple growing up and maturing. Vaughn was confusing tbh. I don’t remember much of him from the last books because I blocked him out kinda bc I wasn’t interested which is why it was so confusing for me. I know I disliked him but i liked him I this book. I appreciate his ending a lot though. One of the few characters I felt was totally wrapped up.His good boy persona is what set me off earlier but now he can recognize that not him I’m glad and I wish I could’ve seen more of that.Plot TOO MANY SIDE PLOTS. That was my main issue it’s so hard to keep up with, like winkle who tf was that?! This book was confusing esp compared the others. It felt crammed as your trying to fit this complex plot into one book while also trying to wrap up the characters and series. It just really didn’t work. And why did mrs white even get out of jail?! It made no sense. She was just right back anyway I have no idea why any of the characters were murdered and I believe that was the number one thing of the book. Although I will admit I really liked the film ending. Was really nice but I don’t like how it only focused on the two most annoying characters barley any recognition to the other characters other than, oh she’s a bitch!, and, they broke up!.Relationships Vaughn and orcrid are cute together I will admit. But after the whole Oliver thing, which I liked, Hell no. I feel like in 5 years they can get back together but they definitely need to be put on rest ❤️ Mustard and Finn I actually called from the very first time mustard was introduced. Them breaking up didn’t make much sense. I never thought they would get married or anything but they could’ve at least lasted a year 💀 otherwise they were cute or whatever mustard and tanner, I don’t ship. Genuinely best friendship in this book like idk it was so simple but it was so enjoyable ESP WHEN MUSTARD WAS LIKE “I wish I could’ve talked more like abt dad issues etc” Finn and scarlet/peacock. I’m putting them all bc I feel the same way. I like that scarlet didn’t like Finn. I like that peacock still kinda liked him. Wish scar and Finn had fixed their friendship more but it’s okay. Scar and orchid. 100% toxic neither of them understood eachother and I felt scarlet actually liked her, just had a different love language, while orchid could’ve cared less. Mustard and peacock. They werent friends but I’m saying they totally should have. I felt it would’ve tied mustard into the crew and they definitely could of bonded.Sorry I wrote so much I just really got into this series 😅
4011974406	This hit my Clue loving nerd heart in the right way. I'm sad this is over now. :(
3967074236	I absolutely loved this book! It was such a fantastic way to end the series!!
8022710248	It's clear that Peterfreund really wanted to write kissing scenes and big reveal scenes, not a murder mystery. The only piece of detective work happens right at the end and immediately solves everything. In any other mystery, this is something that would happen right away. Of course, it doesn't immediately solve everything because there are still tons of things that make no sense and aren't explained (what really happened in the car crash? how are they inducing strokes in Vaughn/Oliver's family and Dr. Brown? (view spoiler)[ why did vaughn pretend to be oliver when he immediately reveals they had already been switching places? (hide spoiler)] this is the most egregious and makes no sense at all. why have a plot or characterization when you could shock 10-year-olds who've never seen/read a thriller before, I guess)The characters spend all their time squabbling and by the end of the book I pretty much didn't like any of them anymore, but especially Scarlett, Orchid, and Vaughn/Oliver. Despite all the stakes Peterfreund built up throughout the entire series, all of the challenges the main characters face are hand-waved away. There are no real consequences for anyone's actions. For example, in the second book they make it seem like a big deal that no one took the SATs and it literally never matters. The part I hated most from this book was the scene where (view spoiler)[ Vaughn forcibly makes out with Orchid while pretending to be Oliver. The narrative never acknowledges that this is borderline assault and they're basically back together at the end of the book. It's especially ironic given how much of Orchid's story is about being manipulated and lied to. In the end I guess she's fine with it if the dude's hot enough. (hide spoiler)] Not appropriate in a book for teens and not encouraging when authors don't know when what they're writing is way past a grey area of consent.Also, I think it's dumb that the author didn't go all the way and give me Scarlett/Peacock. SCARCOCK. It's obvious all you want to write is romance; give me lesbians.
4307250788	I read both the second and third books of this series within two days. While the ending was enjoyable, it was also predictable and the epilogue felt rather flat. My favorite part of the entire series were the nods to the film “Clue” - The Singing Telegrams as a band name was particularly delightful. It was still worth it to buy the series!
6733305978	Great thought less great execution. I liked the trilogy as a whole and I did feel like this book dragged less than book 2. But overall this would have been a better duology. Books 2 and 3 spent too much time rehashing the previous books. I felt like the filler dominated. That being said the last 50 pages of this book was positively gold. If you know you know.
4770939299	I wanted this series to end on a stronger note than it did. This book was way more about relationships than the other two. While I liked the characters, I missed the intrigue of the other books. I also am unsure how I feel about the three possible endings. I would also like to note that my suspicion from the outset of this book was spot on! 🙌🏼
5486365937	** spoiler alert ** Child.I've put off writing my review for the first two books but I literally can't for this finale. First thing I want to say is-Peacock ending>>> Winkle ending>> Oliver ending.That Oliver ending made me want to throw up, though the ballroom door joke was greatly appreciated. The twist at the end? Absolutely gagged me for sure. TRULY gagged me. One thing I will give Diana is she knows how to give the people a plot twist like damn. Also Orchid mentioning Plum and Mustard no longer being together at the end ? Can we all agree to ignore that ? Yeah? Yeah.Over all it was an entertaining read for sure. Scarletts pov irritates me to no end though lorrrrd she's annoying. But other than that I would say I'm pretty satisfied.Last thing ! 'The Oliver School'? Let's be for real. You could have 'Green Academy' or 'Oliver Elementary ' I don't know, literally ANYTHING else.Anywaysss, 4.5 stars rounded down !P.s- All those people saying this is the worst book in the series are lying so bad it hurts.
4995393152	For a while this book spent way too much time focusing on one relationship between characters and not on investigating the murders at the school which was boring. However, the last 60 pages were very interesting.
4135971911	** spoiler alert ** 22- In the Ballroom with the Candlestick by Diana PeterfreundBlackbrook Academy setting is back and Orchid is in the Tudor House. The first 50 pages share what our familiar characters are doing now as well as flashback information about the previous two books. The new death/Murder occurs in page 20 and is a great way to kick start our characters into action as well as resurfacing old feelings, mementoes and habits. Characters:Orchid- Emily Pryce child star who killed her stalker agent Ash/Keith last book. She thinks she hears Vaughns sing being sung with new words- thinks she sees him clam digging. Scarlet-she is basically running Blackbrook academy after many students dropped out and the board isn’t doing a good job. She has also released 5 of Vaughan songs and has made him famous post mortemMustard- trying to keep himself busy so he doesn’t do stupid things. School, exercise etc. Peacock- she is recovering from the car accident that killed Vaugh she will never play tennis again. Is in a scooter. Plum- been on his own working on his due formula. Hasn’t talked to Mustard about their relationship. Plum came out to family. Violet-Amber-Tanner just broke up with her. Tanner- seems off, broke up with Amber b/c he is sick of the memorials and doesn’t want to go to promDr Brown - found in her office behind the red drapes Vaughn (ghost) - Oliver- Vaughns twin is living in their house in Rocky Point. His grandmother was Olivia Vaughn her boyfriend/grandfather was Richard. He left her. Ch 7- Orchid meets Oliver and is surprised by all the twin info. Suspects: this story continues to flashback and starts to create theories that maybe Ash/Keith didn’t really kill Rusty. No one is concerned that Dr Browns death was not accidental. Except Peacock. Plum- Winkle is threatening him to give his notebooks and sell his due to Curry Chem Tanner: getting sent threats via his mailbox. “Here’s the proof. Make up your mind or be part of then problem.” Dick Fain (glue inventor who died young) went to school with Tanner’s Dad. -Boathouse is full of old computer equipment. -Oliver uses his $10,000 to her Mrs White out on probation. Murder Crew has a meeting and tempers flare. They didn’t out Orchid hooked up with Oliver. Oliver shows his more evil and selfish side. Scarlett and Orchid fight over their friendship and lack of loyalty to each other. Scarlett deletes Vaughn’s channel! -Finn and Mustard face each other in the conservatory. Mustard tells how he got the nickname. (Two days to return to boot camp he showed up covered in yellow River silt- looked like Mustard. He had broken the record previously held by his dad!) He and Finn are trying to be brave together. Kiss and make a plan. Ch22- Tanner Curry is found dead by Mustard. Mustard is in police custody. Scarlett gets him a lawyer (Bianca). When he gets out he crumbles in tears on Finns shoulder in front of everyone. Oliver meets Orchid at Tudor Hall the night of the prom/memorial. He explains that all he wants is what is rightfully his. Gemma and Vaughn were quiet about the invention of the glue and the Academy paid them off with one scholarship tot he most promising grandson. Oliver was slighted and he and Mrs White were standing up to Boddy. A bloodied email in the scrapbook proved to be evidence of the pay off. She didn’t really kill him because of the construction- it was about the inheritance of the glue money. Finn breaks into Winkles office and finds incriminating evidence of a cover up for Murder and corruption at Blackbrook. He reveals that Dr Brown and Tanner we’re both poisoned with medication that belong to Peacock. She confesses that she was angry that there was no security and Dr. Brown did nothing to protect the students until it was too late and her career was over. Tanner saw her fighting with Dr. Brown and he’s also a spoiled brat who willingly quit a team. Peacock has clearly lost her mind. She throws a lit candle stick onto orchid because she is so mad at her. Mrs. White saves the day with a fire extinguisher.Alternate ending- Finn bursts in with evidence. Oliver confesses to being a murderer. He bolts the ballroom doors and sets the entire place on fire. He has a secret exit to the ballroom that enters into the kitchen where he shoves work it into. He says he killed them all because they all did him wrong. He would’ve killed orchid but she handed over the money when he deserved it.What really happened ending- Oliver is really Vaughn. Winkle poisoned and killed everyone to protect the glue secret! Finn has evidence in Tanners phone from the text messages. The Murder Crew gets mad at vaughn for lying and don’t talk to him. 6 months later Vaughn is bidding at auction for Blackbrook academy land. The rest of the Murder crew pull up in limo. He and Orchid have a heart to heart about therapy, lies, guilt and regrets. Vaughn is going to build The Oliver School and despite their animosity, he invited them all in to watch as her buys the pieces of Tudor House.
4292628650	All aboard for the Orchid Drama Express.I guess one of the best things I can say about this book is that it's a short, quick read. Though that isn't fair to how much I adore Scarlet, Plum and Mustard. They are wonderful and the whole reason I made it through this book.Peacock is…still just as irrelevant today as she was at the start of the first book. (Honestly, what is even her point? What does she do?) I don't have any real feelings towards her. I'm just neutral.Orchid, on the other hand, I kind of hate. I mean, she was my least favorite in the first book, and she basically takes over the storyline. Any storyline, that is, that Green didn't take over. (Or, even some he did, because they are in deep teen love.) (Which means they kissed twice and are obsessed with each other.) Because between the two of them, they are pretty much the whole plot for three books. And I don't like Green much more than I like Orchid.So this was particularly fun for me.(Honestly, I never even understood why Orchid was here. I mean, until I looked up the characters for the newest Clue re-do game, I didn't even know we had an Orchid - I'd never even heard of her before. So, she felt out of place the entire time I was reading the first two books, partially because of that, but also because she isn't even Orchid. I mean, there are so many secondary characters that have names that tie into Clue, but one of our main characters doesn't. (Also, I would give that complaint a pass, if Orchid herself did constantly harp on about how she's really Emily. I mean, if it was a real name change and 'this is who I am' I'd be cool with it. But Orchid thinks that Orchid was a front while really, she's Emily.) (Also, there is a character from Clue itself that's called Rusty Naylor. So…definitely less credit to the author for that pun than I originally gave.))(And then there's the ending. Or, should I say, endings? The whole this could have happened, but didn't works okay in a visual medium, for me, but is a total failure in print medium, for me.)(Also, the whole naming the book after how and where of the murder victim only really works when there's a murder victim in that room that was killed by that method. The second book title was a stretch and this one doesn't work at all.)
6320988891	** spoiler alert ** overall, i really enjoyed the series—mostly because they were super easy to read, each in one sitting. i also love clue, that was the easy lead into the series (which i thought would be a standalone, to be honest). that said, the first book is definitely the strongest; it has the most solid plot, the deaths don’t feel so expected, and it had some fun twists that i both did and did not predict. the following two books were fun, but definitely not as structured. dead bodies start becoming too easy to find, and for all the truth behind the conspiracies, it still reaches a point where it’s a little hard to suspend your disbelief when it comes to this school still being up and running.this last installment in particular had me oscillating between angry and happy so often. i was mad it was oliver who survived when book two clarified he can’t drive, all for the reveal to be at the very end—and for that weird push between “oliver” and orchid to happen. i didn’t love the multiple endings at first, mostly because i was worried they’d run through everyone like the movie and leave out a confirmed real ending, but once i saw we had a canon ending i was alright with them considering it was a movie reference—and because the whole scene making beth into a murderer felt really frustrating and unbelievable anyway, especially with the addition of her expecting she was getting back together with plum.which, speaking of—i have to be so honest. my biggest disappointment in the whole book was that one throw away line at the very end that broke plum and mustard up. it was all i wanted to keep and i can’t figure out why bother. the two of them barely got mentioned in the epilogue, and i really didn’t care about orchid enough for the focus to be on her; she was probably my least favorite murder crew member. ignoring that line because it makes me sad, i had enough fun finishing this series because most of it was enjoyable and easy to read in between some other non-YA books.
5517899770	** spoiler alert ** i loved this series, but this book was good, for the most part. i finished it in one sitting (besides eating dinner, that only took a few minutes though)things i liked:-MUSTARD AND FINNN OMGGGGG-ok i forgot everything else because i only read this book for finn and mustard (but yes, the series was good overall, but that was a very small part that played in me wanting to read this book… lol)things i didn’t like:- bad spelling- how for some reason finn and mustard broke up?? but not really?? idk (page 319)ok also the multiple endings… they were eh? like i definitely wasn’t expecting that. the real ending was satisfying enough? i guess? besides the whole Finn and Mustard thing and them breaking up? disappointing honestly. the other endings didn’t really make sense but i was willing to believe the first one… it made more sense than oliver committing arson so you know. 🤷 (ALSO didn’t we all know “Oliver” was actually Vaughn? in these types of books you can’t just kill off one of the main characters. though i will admit he was very convincing at times.) Opinions on characters-Orchid: i didn’t like her very much in this book… she got like,, really stupid?Green: didn’t like him much either,, he was my favorite at the start, but not anymore, really. i was also bored with the whole OrchidxVaughn thing once things started picking up with finn and mustard (which i admit was actually a big surprise when i read it for the first time in the second book)Mustard: one of my favorites. :) his character development was nice. his ideals made sensePlum: Definitely my favorite. idk he just was more likable once you realize he’s not as bad as scarlett says he isScarlett: very boring, i was very disappointed when a Plum or Mustard chapter ended and it would go to her… like girl? come on. (also pretty sure she’s aroace so that’s cool)Peacock: could have been a good character but she never got an actual chapter through the entire series
6083882349	Have you ever been excited about a book as you have loved the previous ones and then the last book falls flat on its face and is a letdown? That is how I felt with In The Ballroom with a Candlestick. I had enjoyed the previous two books but this one just made me hate all the characters, there wasn't a single one I liked. From Oliver Green who still doesn't know technically if he is Oliver as he could be Vaughn - the brother that supposedly died, to Scarlett who has this massive ego about helping everyone but then when she doesn't get her way, she throws a tantrum and takes extreme action, Orchid who killed a man in Book #2 and feels guilt but still acts with a poor me attitude. It's like look you are wealthy and you got away with murder, what's there to be sad about besides of course Vaughn's death? Mustard who is in the closet but acts like he doesn't want anyone to know - it's like -look if they are your friends they will accept you for who you are, Beth - a jealous one whose life was ruined when she was injured in the car crash that killed two people and Plum- hiding his invention and also the fact he is in love with Mustard. We also have a couple more deaths in this book, Mrs White gets bailed from jail and all mayhem breaks loose at the Prom which is told with three alternate endings on how the story could have ended. I felt overall that this book had lost the momentum that we had seen build in the previous two and the deaths of this book's characters were senseless. Although in saying that it was a good YA thriller and one that I would only recommend you read if you have the need and desire to finish the series, but reader you have been forewarned - so the candlestick is now in your corner.
4333556708	Actual rating: 3.5 stars.I finally managed to get my hands on a copy of this one. The store I pre-ordered this one from kept having to push back the delivery date thanks to the supply chain issues, but I finally got to finish this series. The Clue Mystery series is a YA Mystery series that takes inspiration from the board game AND the movie Clue. As someone who has loved and watched the movie at least dozens of times, how could I not read this series? In rural Maine, a private boarding school exists with a history colder than Maine’s most brutal winters. During one of the most brutal winter storms, Headmaster Boddy and a handful of students find themselves trapped in Tudor House only to find one in their number murdered the next morning.The best things about this one almost all come from the references to the board game or the movie. There are moments when direct lines of dialogue from the movie are inserted into these characters mouths and I was absolutely living for it. This is also a really fast and easy read. I normally read about 50 pages an hour on average and with this book I could easily read between 60 and 70 pages. It does feel a little young for YA, but it’s still such a fun read. And the Mystery is actually a pretty good one that ends up spanning over the three books. I think it does a good job of making the reader work for the answer.Overall, it’s just a really fun time, especially if you like Clue at all. I’m a little sad this series is ending, but I found the ending to be pretty satisfying. I’d definitely be willing to check out other books by this author in the future.
4644039228	2.5 stars rounded up. I wanted so badly to like this book. This trilogy set itself up so nicely, and it’s clear the author thought out so much in advance. However, this concluding book was slow paced and anticlimactic. It felt like the main plot of this book was the drama surrounding Orchid and the Greens despite the number of murders that have occurred within three books. I did not like Orchid, so her being the main plot line was annoying. The three different endings: This is apparently a reference to the movie. However, this book was advertised as being based off the BOARD GAME not the movie. Therefore, as someone who has never seen the movie, I did not get the reference. I also thought it made reading the ending painful because reading roughly the same scene three times was boring. Other aspects I didn’t enjoy: The Green twins plot twist was predictable. The truth behind the murders throughout the series are confusing and unclear especially because this book tries disputing previous books then never gives a finite answer as to what happened. No one dies In the Ballroom with the Candlestick, and unlike the other two books, the title isn’t stated at the end of the book (in part because no one dies in this manner). Parts I enjoyed: Scarlett’s character was a little poorly written last book, so this book felt like a good redemption arc for her. Finn and Mustard were cute. I like Peacock’s Murder Journal/ her character in general.
4893219021	The Murder Crew is (somehow) back at Blackbrook Prep School. This is sure to be a year of positive change. After all, Prom is happening again. What could go wrong? How about some murder? AGAIN?! Yes, all of the dramatics of the first two stories come crashing in at the reader at breakneck speed. What sets this particular story apart from the previous two of the trilogy is the 4 version ending (yeah, there's a lot packed into this book), as well as doubling the twists of the first two books, but not without validity. All of these "moments", major or minor, for each character, are revealed. There may even be a secondary 'murder' weapon involved in this book...DUH DUH DUH! Again, as with the previous two, Diana Peterfreund, shows the good and bad in humanity, the assorted personalities of the six-person narrative, and follows each of our very flawed characters seamlessly. The only downside is that one of the endings feels almost too messy to be believable given the uniqueness of the situation...ONLY downside, but that's also for the reader to decide. The trilogy, sadly concludes with this story, but it may have you questioning whether or not the Murder Crew will be back...
4922904113	I almost didn't read this book after finishing the 2nd one, but then I realized it was the last one in the series and I might as well finish it. I am left unsatisfied still. I did not like any of the three alternative endings, though the last one "What Really Happened" was the best of the three. As others have mentioned, Orchid becomes annoying and 'loose' in this one. I get that she's grieving and that may be different for everyone, but she's still a teenager and it just seems gross. Orchid and Vaughn were my favorite characters in the previous books and I feel like they got ruined in this one the most out of the Murder Crew characters. I enjoyed the first book, enough to read the second, which I enjoyed less, and finished with this one, which I enjoyed least of all. I would not recommend this series to others, because the mysteries are not resolved until the third book, which was overall dissatisfying.
7088134460	I think this story would’ve done better by being one really long book instead of a trilogy. I really found the conclusions to the first two books to be very unsatisfying. I realized why at the end of this one when there were multiple endings presented like the Clue movie has. In order to have the different endings all feel possible, the storyline needed to leave many openings and possibilities. At the end, each of the endings was guessable, which should’ve felt satisfying, but it just didn’t. I read this whole third book in one day after finding book two to be very unsatisfying. It was certainly easy to read quickly, and I think it’d do just fine as a movie, but the characters were too one-note to be really satisfying as a multi-POV book. Even though each of the endings was guessable, only one feels right, even without the epilogue chapter at the end. I was just hoping for better. 3.25 stars.
5589667560	Full disclosure, I read this before the first two books in the series for no reason other than I was too lazy to dig the first two out of my collection. I didn't find I really missed out on a lot, though there are some allusions to the past books that didn't mean much of anything to me. Ultimately I had a hard time caring much about any of the characters and found them hard to keep track of because they were all pretty typical obnoxious teenagers with few redeeming qualities. The melodrama was high and the plot was barely existent most of the time. I did really enjoy the "Here's what could have happened, but then this could have happened to, no wait this is what REALLY happened" section toward the end of the book that felt very much like a nod to the original Clue movie, but that was honestly the best thing about it and overall I was underwhelmed.
4859219593	** spoiler alert ** I rarely read Young Adult anymore. However, when I saw this trilogy was inspired by CLUE, I had to indulge in my obsession.I was not disappointed. Also, Young Adult is definitely more adult than when I was reading it, but that’s a separate discussion.Did I figure out the true culprit and one of the ending twists before I finished the series? Yes. It was still an enjoyable mystery though, and the author treats these characters with respect.The CLUE characters have been portrayed in many different ways, and it was nice having a few POC and LGBTQ+ characters in this version.So if you’re a fan of CLUE or mysteries in general, I think you’ll enjoy this trilogy! It’s one I will proudly display on my bookshelf. ☺️
4484851057	After yet another body is found on campus, the Murder Crew, or those who remain standing, must try to put the clues together to figure out what is happening. The same main characters and story telling from multiple perspectives are used but the time jumps in this one we’re more difficult to figure out when the perspective and time change simultaneously. The third and final book in the Clue series is truly my favorite. With phrases from the movie scattered throughout, it ties the other stories together in a way that mostly makes sense. Also for movie fans, you will appreciate a similar ending with the loose strings all ties up in a neat little bow… or are they?
5696235568	Good conclusion to this series. It’s kitschy and silly with a hint of serious. I’ve enjoyed the characters from the start but starting in the second book and into this one, some really started to take a turn into areas I didn’t enjoy. It’s still well-written with a good plot but once the final reveal happens, it takes a lot of retconning to make it work. Speaking of the ending, I loved all the overt references to the Clue movie including the name of the prom band! All in all, this was a delightful murder mystery with teenage characters that I stumbled onto at BN and am grateful for where it took me!
7011805032	Wow. I'm not sure I've ever been so disappointed with a book. This series started out so strong! I was so excited to find the series! But halfway through the second book, the plot got weak and thin and it just got worse from there. The author made two characters gay, but it overtook the entire rest of the series. I didn't even let my teen read these after book one, because the descriptions and details and dwelling on their gayness was absurd! Enough already! Then the plot of this one was pathetic. The ending was lame. Don't get fooled by the ties to the game/movie Clue, both of which I adore. I wouldn't waste my time with these.
4716831874	This was a cute story based around the game of Clue. It wasn't my favorite read, but it was definitely interesting. Was Scarlett over the top, power demanding? Yes. Did Orchid come over as naive again and again. Yes. Were there lots of cliches in the book. Definitely yes. But I kind of expected that from the start of the book. I will say that I liked how the ending gave three possible scenarios and then said the one that was actually correct. That was a very interesting part for me as many books don't have that.Would I recommend this book to someone older than 15? Probably not. But anyone 15 or younger or into those kinds of books I would.
4767537335	This series was a lot of fun. I didn't expect much going in so I was happy that I enjoyed them so much. Loved the alternate endings, like the Clue film, and glad I stuck to my gut instincts on some of my theories (no spoilers here). Kind of rounded up on the stars since I am a fan of the source material (the board game and the film - "I...hated..her...so..much!") and even though there is plenty of murder and a few romantic (steamy?) moments, nothing is graphic or explicit. I don't think there were even any swear words - maybe one or two? I honestly don't remember any, and I appreciate that since most YA books are ridiculously full of them.
4163800899	Let me start off by saying… I KNEW IT!! I mean, I didn’t know who committed the murders in this book, but there were some suspicious people and I wasn’t surprised. However, I did know one little tidbit about one of the characters since the second book and I was pretty pleased to find that I was right. I mean, in a way, it’s also kind of obvious, but you also never know what an author is going to pull when a situation like that comes up.Man, I hate not being able to be specific because of spoilers. Ugh.In any case, this was a great conclusion to the Clue Mystery trilogy, starting off with a brand-new murder to rock the students and staff remaining at Blackbrook Academy. Unlike the other murders, there was no evidence of foul play, so the administration writes it off as a natural death. Of course, that’s not enough for some of the Murder Crew, especially Peacock, who’s had enough of death after being involved in a fatal car crash in which she was the only survivor.Honestly, this is the first book series where I never found myself fully loving any characters. They’re all unreliable characters, which I think is what Peterfruend was going for. Out of the Murder Crew, I liked Peacock the best because of the way her chapters are written. It’s a direct look into her mind as her chapters are journal entries, and in this book her journal is now her investigative notebook, since she cannot play tennis with two broken legs and her arm in a brace. I definitely found myself more sympathetic to her in this book because she couldn’t do what she loved.There are some minor subplots that don’t bode well with me – mainly a relationship between two of the characters – as they just feel a little forced, but I’ve thought that since the second book. But my opinion isn’t the same as everyone else; they might love the pairing. Or not. I don’t know.Other than that, there was one thing I didn’t care for at the end, which was the alternate endings. It got annoying to reread the start of prom over and over and honestly, it just wasn’t needed. Especially because at that point it’s easy to figure out who was involved in the murders (as well as some other things). So that’s a star knocked off because needless alternate endings.Again, this was otherwise a good ending to the trilogy, if a bit anticlimactic, that wraps up some of the mysteries that started from the first book.
5703245607	This felt like a somewhat satisfying conclusion to the trilogy, definitely got some questions answered but i saw that end twist coming. i did like the alternate endings added as a homage to the movie, a bit odd in book formats but it was fun. same issue i had with the other books, the ending just wraps up so fast that i feel like it barely gets any room to just be what it is and the quasi epilogue was just okay. overall i did enjoy the series and if you know and like the. movie it's based off of you'll get something fun out of this read and for that i recommend.
4372930000	If you grew up playing the game Clue or you remember the 1985 movie, you will find this book interesting!This is the third book in a series that incorporates all of the lovable characters of the original board game and transports them to Blackbrook Academy. There's Orchid, Scarlett, Peacock, Mustard, Plum, and Green - students who are trying to finish out the year and stay alive!Will the six of them be able to finish their high school year, attend prom, and survive a murderer who has already killed four people on campus? Or is one of them next?
4849690307	I love it. It ended just like the movie. The plot was more complex than I first thought, and somehow, it made me very happy. Nothing is black and white but shades of gray. We are given hints that Mrs. White might not have murdered Mr.Boddy, but that case was open and shut, but was it for the reason she said? How were the deaths of Dr. Brown, Rusty, and Tanner related to Mr. Boddy? It was never about Tudor House. It was about how Blackbrook treated the students and their achievements. It was never about educating students; it was using students and their inventations to make a profit. I don't want to give too much away, but it was almost perfect in the end. Justice, in a way, was served, and everyone got what they deserved.
4534161956	Enjoyed this, but there were several grammatical and word errors, for example one of the sentences used the word hair when in all reality needed the word chair. It felt like this book was just pushed out with someone editing it.I will say that throughout the trilogy I loved those Easter eggs of quotes from the movie Clue. One of my favorite movies from when I was a little girl. Loved how you snuck those movie cards from the movie into the third book, truly genius to give possibly three endings like the movie.
4516312710	ok so i definitely accidentally read the third book without reading the first two. it was mostly fine because there was some backstory provided but i still had mostly no idea who the old characters were but anyways. still was a really good book and a nice and easy mystery read. i think the ending was way to predictable and uneventful but i liked the very very last part. great book and an easy mystery read
5918498526	I loved this series. I am a fan of all things CLUE so that already makes me biased buttttt it was a good book, I swear! There are a lot of twists and turns, I would say (some) were obvious to me.. I saw it coming but that doesn’t bother me personally as a reader. Honestly, right time and place, I would read this series again. 🥬☁️💟🌶️🦚💛 (Can you believe there is no mustard bottle or plum emoji?)
4591306654	** spoiler alert ** The dangers of reading YA— so much teen drama. This book was better than the second, not as good as the first, and a nice overall finish to the series. *Spoilers*I loved the nod to the Clue movie with the alternate endings, and I must say the third is my favorite. I love that Vaughn is alive (and guessed it from the calluses commend earlier on in the book), and I love that there’s the hope of a relationship and friendship between the six teens at the close.
6494892661	3.25 stars~An interesting conclusion to the series. I definitely think I liked this one the least out of the 3. I read it quickly and it was really compelling- however towards the end it did start to feel pretty repetitive and there was basically an epilogue and I didn’t feel super interested in what was happening at that point. It was still really readable- but the last 25% or so was not my favorite.
5231736409	Overall this series was a fun quick read, if a little silly and for sure could have used a round or two of more edits but I had fun and read all three books so it can't be that bad. The multiple endings definitely works better on screen though, especially if you are going to only have one of them be the true ending, and not leave off with an open ending.
6881477195	** spoiler alert ** This trilogy messed with my head and ended on what I considered to be a good note. I didn’t like the 1st ending with Peacock being the murderer because it felt so out of left field and the second ending felt a bit forced. However, the last and real ending was perfect the way it was. 8/10 stars, would recommend Thai series.
4222032905	I thought this was a good conclusion to the Clue Mystery series, lots of twists and turns, and of course some high school drama. I have a soft spot for books about boarding schools and Clue, so this was perfect series for me to read. I recommend this series to anyone who likes a somewhat fun mystery.
4334030499	I loved this book. It's a triumphant finale to a great trilogy. It even has you wondering if the solution to the first book was the right solution. Plus there are delightful hat tips to the movie, including the "that's how it *could* have happened. but what about this" endings. A must read if you love mysteries.
6196363618	This book ended pretty disappointing. I liked that it had multiple endings but the actual ending that it went with was what I had guessed was going to be the final answer since the very beginning so it wasn’t really a shock. It was an ok book, the writing was bad and I was entertained.
6073369984	read this book out of order with no context. didn’t even know it was part of series. i just tried to connect all the dots as best as i could.good for what it was!! the ending was a teeny bit lackluster? not bad at all! was just hoping for a little bit more :,,3
7119657973	Once I noticed a few things about the writing that are not to my personal taste, I found this one hard to enjoy.I did like that there was more of an investigation in this one compared to the first two entries.I wish that Beth / Peacock was taken seriously as a character.
4582802046	There were parts of this that I didn't care for at all, personally. The story would have been fine without them.As for the ending--kind of weird--at least to me. I guess some people like endings like that.
7043208523	Here's where everything falls apart. There's so much happening from the previous books that the events in this one take a backseat making for a lackluster plot. But, the three endings bit, like the movie, is a nice touch.
