6711339338	3 very generous stars I am not gonna say much about this book because I honestly have nothing much to say. I don't have anything to rant about 😭 it' was a good concept and the idea was very well pitched, the cover and the blurb were solid, easy to lure anyone however there were some things that just did not work out but before we get into it, let's see what did work out;What I liked:• The first half was well done, I was hooked and I was intrigued and I wanted to binge it.•The mystery aspect and the back forth during the first half was really nice between the two povs and two settings.•The characters were fun to read about and the unsettling feelings that revolved around them + the overall vibe was fun.What I didn't like:• The pacing overall was very slow, despite being hooked during the first half it took me a fair amount of time to get through it and during the second half I lost it sm I even skimmed a bit.• Story started to lose itself in the second half everything got so messy with execution and the thing just lost their charm which overall dulled my experience.• The characters and their back and forth with the settings proved to be more of an hindrance. I tried to like Naomi and Maya but all the attachment that I felt to them and the story vanished into thin air.Overall, it may work for some of you but it definitely was not for me or atleast the second half was. I do believe that this author can do better and I may read more of her books in the future. It wasn't a bad book, it was just very messy.___I need a GOOD thriller/mystery book!!*Thank you to Penguin Random House for giving me an E-Arc for this book*
6129716506	I'm hooked! The mystery surrounding the dark society of Greystone in Princeton, where devoted attendees vie for their futures through powerful connections, intertwines with the enigmatic drowning of a young student: Maya's sister Naomi, who harbors a dark past within the same college. Maya, doing everything in her power to conceal a tragic incident related to the death of a student connected with one of the teachers, takes us on a thrilling journey.WOW! This might be one of the longest summaries I've written. My mind is about to be blown because I couldn't stop reading this thriller with so many layers, incredible characterization, and a balanced, paced trajectory that keeps your attention intact. The narrative transports you 13 years back, where young Maya, biracial with a Chinese mom and a black father, recently orphaned with her 8-year-old sister Naomi, finds herself part of a secret society surrounded by privileged students. Maya does what she can to adjust, providing extra funds to send her sister to school, even if it involves her into the pyramid scheme of the institution. We then move seven months before the present time, witnessing Naomi, Maya's little sister, unfortunately following the same footsteps, estranged from her sister and part of a secret society, entangled in a love triangle that may be doomed with heartache!We witness how Naomi's actions may resolve with her death as she attempts to uncover the mystery of a student's death under suspicious circumstances that was swept under the rug. When she discovers her straight, cold, career-oriented sister may be one of the last persons who has seen the dead girl alive, and the possibility that the girl has been silenced for knowing too much about the secret society connections, Naomi teams up with her roommate, an intern at the New York Times, to unravel the dirty secrets! Could her attempts to face the past be the reason for her demise? Or is she the victim of a love triangle that has gotten out of hand?Maya has to confront her dark past, face the consequences of her actions, and find out the truth about her sister's death, even though it may ruin her entire future and the family she's built.Overall: As soon as I started to read Naomi's narrative, I easily connected with her, and I wished there would be a miracle that she could be alive, that the entire mystery might consist of misunderstandings. Her story broke my heart. I also easily understood the reasoning behind Maya's actions. She's burdened with too much baggage at a young age and needed to find a way to survive, which may have led her to dangerous roads.I loved the realistic execution and depiction of the secret society. As I thought I finally pieced up another layer of the mystery, the author perfectly presented another layer, and I hardly guessed some parts of twists, which are perfectly executed. It's a one-sitting, intense read that also wrecked my heart with a realistic but sad conclusion. Especially the sisters' miscommunications that affected their entire relationship broke my heart. This is great reading that earned my five unputdownable stars I highly recommend.Many thanks to NetGalley and Random House Publishing/ Ballantine/ Bantam for sharing this digital reviewer copy with me in exchange for my honest feedback.Follow me on medium.com to read my articles about books, movies, streaming series, astrology: medium bloginstagramfacebooktwitter
6146584239	“Did my silence allow the same thing to happen to my sister? “ Brief Summary- Maya is supposed to be celebrating her little sister Naomi’s graduation from Princeton the same college she attended 10 year prior. But instead, Maya ends up investigating her sister death. As Maya keeps digging for the truth she realizes the secret society she was involved in when attending college might be the key to finding out who killed Naomi. This is a dark academia story with the rich acting unhinged. Told from the alternating viewpoints of Maya and Naomi, the reader is given two different time periods with each POV leading up to the murder. My Thoughts- This book had a very intriguing plot. The characters were very well liked. The author does a great job with weaving in the dark campus vibe and the suspense to this story. The writing in this book was very detailed and vivid. I felt like I was standing on the room with each character. I love how this book touched on privilege and race and how it applies at an elite school like Princeton. Money and power is everything, am I right? I do have to complain about the pace. It was very slow. I think the reason I felt this way is because given the dual POV (which I love in books) it was very confusing, because of the repetition of characters and settings. I had to stop reading to go back to the beginning of the chapter just to confirm who perspective it was. The POV were just way too similar to each other. There was a lot of miscommunication in this story between the sisters. 😭 Which I did not like. But overall, it was a fun ride. The story kept you guessing the whole time. I kept thinking I figured it out but in reality I kept coming up wrong. 🗣️I do recommend this book. This is my first book by the author and I can’t wait to check out her future work. “The world does not make sense. Humans are not ration decision makers- we are driven by our wants, our needs, our fears” ✨Thank you to NetGalley, the Author and Random House Publishing/ Ballantine/ Bantam for an advanced reading copy of this book in exchange for my honest review✨Playlist-🎶Touch- Cannon 🎶Perfectly- Tep No 🎶Umbrella- Rihanna 🎶Shea Butter Baby- Ari Lennox, J.Cole 🎶Work Out- J.Cole🎶Replay- Tems 🎶Not An Angel- Tems🎶I Took A Pill in Ibiza- Mike Posner 🎶Latch- Sam Smith 🎶Después de la Playa- Bad Bunny 🎶Safaera- Bad Bunny🎶Mr. Brightside- The Killers 🎶This Night Has Opened My Eyes- The Smiths 🎶Rainy Night in Soho- Nick Cave🎶No Role Models- J. Cole 🎶Imported- Jessie Reyes, 6LACK🎶Cocaine Model- ZHU🎶Blue Orchid- The White Stripes🎶Poker Face- Lady Gaga🎶Heros- Alesso🎶Power Trip- J.Cole🎶We Are Young- FUN🎶Bulletproof- La Roux 🎶NUMB- ZHU
6153307974	This story started out really strong. I was all in and completely invested in binging the book in one sitting. However, very early, around 20% with all of the back and forth between Maya in the present timeline, Naomi in the past and Maya in the past- it all just started to bleed together for me. I constantly had to work to hard to remember who's POV I was reading - I don't want to work hard- I just want to enjoy a book. Not a fan of the writing, at all. Also, not a fan of any of these characters. DNF @20%"But that's the thing about love, isn't it? When you find someone who sees you in a way no one else does, who understands you and makes you feel like you can't be whole without them, it wraps you in a vise and makes you forget how to live life without them." ❤️‍🩹🥹Welp...what can I say? Manju and Meagan made me want to read this (thanks for that 🤭)- and now I really need to put in some actual work on my ARC pile. 😬😅 Many thanks to NetGalley, Lauren Ling Brown, and Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine, Bantam for this ARC in exchange for an honest review.
6350653918	I love a book that makes you think as well as entertains. For me, Society of Lies encompassed all of that and more. From the addictive dark academia premise to the stark focus on a multitude of -isms, this powerful, thought-provoking debut novel hit all the right chords. That, however, wasn’t what initially drew me in. A finely layered plot with multiple timelines, the nuanced feel and dark undertones came alive on the page with each additional twist. And just when I thought I had it all figured out, I learned that I happily hadn’t a clue.As for the characters, the dual POVs of Naomi and Maya were powerful contrasts to one another. At the same time, their lack of mutual understanding was a driving force throughout the well-plotted chapters. Adding to the mix was the underlying menace of the Sterling Club and Greystone Society. So palpable was the foreboding surrounding them that they felt like yet another persona in this breathtaking doozy of a thriller. Along with plenty of standout supporting characters, they formed a brilliant cast who felt both genuine and flawed.As I’ve mentioned, the depth to this novel was simply astounding. Examining concepts such as race, sisterhood, and privilege in an elite establishment, the idea of being “other” both made me squirm and think hard. In short, I think this would make quite the pick for a book club given the themes that it tackled. Plus, the fast-paced plot and spine-tingling climax is sure to keep just about anyone reading.With a definite In My Dreams I Hold a Knife vibe, I simply couldn’t get enough of this book and found myself practically skimming as I raced through the pages. The cliffhanger chapters and rising unease were so good, in fact, that I just couldn’t put this one down and finished in just a single sitting. And while the climax might have felt just a tad unhinged, I couldn’t have cared less. After all, the long-buried secrets, multilayered mysteries, and serious topics won me over hook, line, and sinker. So grab your copy today. I promise you that you’re going to want to know what happened to Naomi. Rating of 4.5 stars.SYNOPSIS:Maya has returned to Princeton for her college reunion—it’s been a decade since she graduated, and she is looking forward to seeing old faces and reminiscing about her time there. This visit is special because Maya will also be attending the graduation of her little sister, Naomi.But what should have been a dream weekend becomes Maya’s worst nightmare when she receives the news that Naomi is dead. The police are calling it an accident, but Maya suspects that there is more to the story than they are letting on.As Maya pieces together what happened in the months leading up to her sister’s death, she begins to realize how much Naomi hid from her. Despite Maya’s warnings, Naomi had joined Sterling Club, the most exclusive social club on campus—the same one Maya belonged to. And if she had to guess, Naomi was likely tapped for the secret society within it.The more Maya uncovers, the more terrified she becomes that Naomi’s decision to follow in her footsteps might have been what got her killed. Because Maya’s time at Princeton wasn’t as wonderful as she’d always made it seem—after all, her sister wasn’t the first young woman to turn up dead. Now every clue is leading Maya back to the past…and to the secret she’s kept all these years.Thank you to Lauren Ling Brown and Random House for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.PUB DATE: October 1, 2024Trigger warning: death of a sibling, racism, drug and alcohol use, getting roofied, sexual harassment, assault, abduction
6290235101	I loved the multiple twists in this book and the concept was overall brilliant! As I digest what I read, my rating dropped from 4 stars to 3 as I realized that there were still a lot of questions I had with what happened to Naomi- not so much in the way that she died, but in the events leading up to her death (ex: which person sent her the flowers because there are multiple people whose names start with M). I understand that grief also impacts people in different ways, but I felt like Maya's character was super extreme which made her annoying for me. Overall though, I loved the character growth and the surprises at the end which made me look past Maya's character flaws.I also loved how the author put in her own personal touch with her personal experiences that she had at Princeton. I definitely recommend reading the author's note before reading! It changes the tone a bit with the racial experience Maya and Naomi have and their desire to fit in within the world- making the story deeper than just another thriller.
6224634294	This book did nothing for me. I really wanted to like it but in the end it was just another book about rich kids and icky teachers. The twist were just straight lines pretending to be twists and the rollercoaster was more of teacup ride. I’m very disappointed!
6246390014	Rating: ⭐⭐⭐Genre: Mystery ThrillerSociety of Lies is a debut mystery thriller about two sisters, Maya and Naomi. After ten years, Maya is finally going to take part in her college reunion. One day, however, she gets a phone call informing her that her sister, who was about to graduate from college, has passed away. Although they have determined that it was an accident, Maya believes there is more to her sister's death than that.After conducting her own investigation, Maya discovers that her sister joined the Sterling Club despite the fact that she had repeatedly cautioned her against doing so numerous times. Maya will then continue her search for additional secrets in order to discover what transpired with Naomi.Using the first-person narration style, the story is told from the perspectives of the two sisters. There are three different timelines, one of which is the present day, told from Maya's point of view. As well as two in the past, from the points of view of both of the girls. There is a lot of intrigue surrounding the concept of the book. It is always interesting to read about secret societies, and I believe the author did a good job of making this aspect of the mystery the primary focus of the whole thing. Both the writing and the organization of the book are excellent, especially considering that it is the author's first novel. Society of Lies is a decent mystery thriller. Because I am not a fan of multiple points of view written in one's own voice, especially when both of the characters' own voices were not too distinct from one another, I am unable to say that I enjoyed everything the author did. Additionally, another thing that I do not like about this is that there are three different timelines that we are dealing with here. In this case, I suppose it is a "me" thing. Therefore, if you don't mind these things and like reading about secret societies, you should give it a try because you might like it.Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for the ARC of this book.
6627340813	Lots of quibbles with this one, and I didn't have any fun with it. I had to work so hard to ferret out the plot that I was just grumpy the whole time.Full review:Thank you to the author Lauren Ling Brown, publishers Bantam Books, and NetGalley for an advance digital copy of SOCIETY OF LIES. All views are mine. I can hear my sister’s voice as though she’s standing right next to me— He’s not good for you, you deserve more—and I know she’s right. But that’s the thing about love, isn’t it? When you find someone who sees you in a way no one else does, who understands you and makes you feel like you can’t be whole without them, it wraps you in a vise and makes you forget how to live life without them. Loc.258 The last 50 pages of this book were an eye rolling purgatory. This book is bloated and needs to lose at least 75 pages of repetition. I found endless quibbles with this one, and not too much to like, unfortunately. I recommend this book for fans of Dark Academia, but to be clear, this is no THE SECRET HISTORY. Reading Notes One thing I loved: 1. My hands curl into fists, crushing the edges of the card. Matthew DuPont left us there. Stranded. With cops who could have done who the hell knows what? It would have been so easy for him. All he had to do was tell them to leave us alone. ...I feel the anger rise up in me. Without thinking, I grab the flowers by the neck and hurl them at the trash, just barely missing, scattering petals and leaves all over the floor. p205 I appreciate this author's ability to draw the natural drama out of her sentences and scenarios. She gives us the best of hyperbole to communicate how much is on the line for the speaker, her sister, and the people in their lives. Six things I didn't love: This section isn't only for criticisms. It's merely for items that I felt something for other than "love" or some interpretation thereof. 1. It turns out this is dark academia, which isn't a favorite genre for me. They have to work really hard to get my attention, and this one is starting out slow and foggy. But they mismarketed unfortunately as a mystery or true crime novel.3. The plot is convoluted due to the exaggerated complication of the narrative form. Dual POV, both in first person but possessing little distinction between them, and shifting timelines for both POVs. It gets very difficult to follow. 4. Sentence structure is often rickety, composed of lots of little moving parts. 5. There are some small logic issues. Like when the previously comatose girl in the backseat sits up and yells, "What are you waiting for?" p212 6. It has the tone and mood of a mystery, especially the way it drops story evidence in moments of increased tension. But it tries to move like a thriller, and it's built like a thriller. So, it fights with itself a bit, and in so doing, loses the trail of its plot. Every time I had to pick this book back up, figuring out where I was in the story often felt impossible. Sometimes, I gave up getting my bearings, and just kept reading. (Figured I would figure it out. I was mostly right.) Rating: 🏫 /5 collegesRecommend? NoFinished: June 2 '24Format: Digital arc, Kindle, NetGalley Read this book if you like:🔍 mysteries🪢 first person, dual POV 🔥 slow burn
7740728218	˙₊➴ ꒰ 3-stars★ ꒱ ꒷⊹࣪˖ ❝ Ubi amici ibidem sunt opes. Where there are friends, there are riches. ❞ Where money means power, influence, and the promise of a secure future for Naomi, her little sister, Maya is willing to do whatever it takes to protect her from a life of hardship. Princeton is supposed to be the beginning of that journey, a world of endless opportunity. But among the polished halls and privileged smiles, Maya feels like an outsider, constantly reminded of where she came from. Desperate to belong, Maya is offered a chance to join one of the most powerful and exclusive societies on campus. With it, the door to success finally begins to open.Now, Maya has climbed higher than she ever dreamed. But as the walls between her past and present crumble, the consequences begin to reach Naomi. The life Maya fought so hard to leave behind is now threatening the one person she promised to protect. And deep down, Maya fears the worst, that it’s all because of her.⊹ ࣪ ˖ੈ Characters ⟡ Maya Manson-Banks - is one of the two Mason sisters. She worked her hardest to get accepted into Princeton, a prestigious Ivy League university. As the eldest and Naomi’s remaining guardian, Maya strives and pursues to do everything just to give her sister a life without struggles and hardship, gifting a life that only leads to success. ❝ And for my sister’s happiness, I could do anything. I could live with our secret. I could hold it inside forever. ❞ ⟡ Naomi Manson - second of the Mason sisters. She also got accepted at Princeton, following in her sister’s footsteps. Seeing how hardworking her sister was, Naomi grew up aiming to be as intelligent, hardworking, and successful as her. Yet she is a young soul navigating her path after graduation. ❝ But that’s the thing about love, isn’t it? When you find someone who sees you in a way no one else does, who understands you and makes you feel like you can’t be whole without them, it wraps you in a vise and makes you forget how to live life without them. ❞ ⊹ ࣪ ˖ੈ Thoughts Despite picking up Society of Lies just for the Poolside reads achievement, I actually enjoy reading it! I gobbled this one up. I’ve seen some reviews stating the present-past-present narrative of Maya and Naomi’s pov made things quite confusing as you walk through both their lives at the same school, same club, but in different years. But for me, that was what hooked me in. ❝ This nightmare has spiraled out of control, and it’s all because of me, because I couldn’t be honest with the people closest to me. ❞ Another thing to note, what I really appreciated was the way the book addressed themes of color and power, and how those dynamics played out throughout the story (tbh I wish it had delved deeper into it). As well as the relationship between the Mason sisters. Reading their povs, you feel the weight of their unspoken emotions. The love and care they have for each other, held back by the fear of becoming a burden. That quiet tension was heartbreaking yet completely understandable. I admire Maya for all the sacrifices she made, but I also admire Naomi for the incredible strength she had. ❝ How often, in the world, is silence what allows horrible people to get away with their crimes? ❞ The only thing that kept this book from being truly shocking or twisty for me was that. I sussed out everything and guessed how things might end, which made the final chapters feel a bit underwhelming but I don’t fault the book for that, it’s just me and my trust issues going overdrive every time I read thriller/mysteries. To sum it up, even though I predicted the book’s ending, I still really enjoyed the read. Society of Lies is gripping, easy to follow, and delivers its twists in a believable way without ever becoming overly complex.˚₊ ⟢┊pre-read 🖇️┊⊹࣪⋆Been reading most of my arcs and they were all fantasy, so it's a good time to switch it up (this is an excuse to read a book on the Poolside Reads Achievements)!🙂‍↕️💯
8024612508	For a full spoiler version of this review, please check out my book review blog here: https://spoiledbooks.blogspot.com/Society of Lies by Lauren Ling Brown starts with a bang — and for a while, I was totally hooked. I love stories about elite secret societies, and this one nails the dark academia vibe at first. Dual timelines, mysterious deaths, and all the shady Ivy League politics? Sign me up.But somewhere in the second half, it just lost me. The story got messy and overcomplicated, and I had a hard time keeping track of who was scheming against who. Still, the twist at the end worked, and I appreciated how the author tied everything together.What really pulled me in were the themes — sisterhood, ambition, race, and privilege — all explored through this dangerous, secretive world. I just wish the second half had kept the same sharp focus as the first.Overall, an intriguing debut that had all the right ingredients for a great thriller… it just got tangled in its own web of lies.
7506150367	One of THE best thrillers in a minute! Genuinely shocked by the twist in this murder mystery, and I thoroughly enjoyed feeling like I was in a different world. Secret societies aren't typically something I gravitate towards, but I thoroughly enjoyed the premise of this, and I'm so glad I requested it! If you're into the idea of secret societies in the upper echelons of scholarly societies and the 1% - this is your next novel!Listened to this in tandem with the Spotify audio because I couldn't put it down, and the narration was well done. I knew exactly whose point of view it was and even sped up at 2x speed - I never had a hard time figuring out where I was in the story. Ending - satisfactory!! When a mystery novel wraps up all parts of the storylines - I'm always happy to have my burning questions answered. **Thank you to Bantam Books for the advanced reader copy. I received this book for free, but all thoughts are my own. – SLR 🖤 Follow me on Instagram for honest reviews, bookish freebies & giveaways! 🦋 || Southern Lady Reads YouTube channel coming soon!!
6225331956	I really can't put my finger on why I didn't like this book, so let me try. secondary characters felt flat and the relationship between sisters left more to be desired. The mystery truly was promising and kept me guessing, but honestly after a while, it just fell flat in my humble opinion.We have 2 POV from 2 sisters, both navigating the complex world of being biracial and trying to belong into an elite institution. When one gets murdered, we go back in time to see how events come together in unraveling her killer.Solid 2 stars!!Meh!
6187778676	Mayas younger sister Naomi is found dead in a lake near Princeton campus, the same school Maya attended 10 years ago. Maya has suspicion's about her sister’s death and unravels secrets at the college.This was a great dark academic story that I hated to end. Thanks NetGalley and Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine for this eARC that will be released August 13, 2024!
6880552386	2.0 ⭐️I loves me some dark academia but not this mess. The characters are one dimensional and lack depth. I decided to dnf at page 200. The lack of characterization and personality left me with a total lack of interest in the outcome.
6417610701	"Society of Lies" by Lauren Ling Brown is a captivating read that had me hooked from start to finish.Maya's return to Princeton for her college reunion takes a dark turn when she receives the devastating news of her sister Naomi's death. What should have been a nostalgic trip down memory lane quickly transforms into a gripping mystery as Maya delves into the secrets of the exclusive Sterling Club, where Naomi was involved.Now, I gotta be real – the story starts off a bit slow. But trust me, once it picks up, it's a wild ride! Brown keeps you guessing with every twist and turn, and just when you think you've got it all figured out, she hits you with another surprise. Admittedly, keeping track of the multiple points of view was a bit challenging at times, and some characters felt a little too similar. However, Maya and Naomi's dynamic as protagonists added depth to the narrative, and their sisterly bond was a driving force throughout the story.And let's not forget about the themes Brown tackles – identity, race, sisterhood, you name it. It adds a whole new layer of depth to the story and makes you think long after you've finished reading."Society of Lies" delivers a satisfying conclusion that ties up all the loose ends. While the reveal of the culprit may not have been a total shocker, the journey to uncover the truth was an exhilarating ride. Overall, if you're a fan of mysteries with a touch of dark academia and a sprinkle of sisterhood, this book is definitely worth your time.Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for the eARC in exchange for my honest opinion.
6908324395	I really wanted to read this book, set at Princeton University, where I completed a postdoc. My office was in one of the eating clubs that are a centerpiece of the novel. And then I saw this novel was Reese’s book club so I figured it was good. Unfortunately the novel is trite, repetitive, and poorly written. The characters are underdeveloped and vapid, and I don’t think on purpose. The author writes that her character’s heart thumped out of their chest or they hear footsteps but no one is the at least 25 times throughout the boring novel. It appears she has people helping her career the way the Princeton legacy students are assisted in the novel. I can’t remember are more poorly written and ridiculous book and then to be chosen by Reese’s book club? I am disappointed in Reese, the author and her editors. Don’t bother!
6127477105	At this point, the terminology “dark academia” is used too freely.Is this story set in secretive clubs of one of the most prestigious universities in the world? Yes.Is there any spark of romance, any magic or any twisted scandal involved at all? No.Society of Lies is the story of four girls who pretend to like each other and are part of a powerful and not-risky-at-all eating club at Princeton in the early 2010s.Someone outside their circle - but still part of the club - dies after having tried to expose the most powerful member, when everyone had already ostracized her and kinda forgot about her.Listen, I don't know if it's the back-and-forth narration or one too many unnecessary details, but it just doesn't work. The whole thing is divided into four parts: in the first one, you get the idea; in the second one, you get a better idea; by the third one, it's pretty clear who the bad apple is and we could wrap it up; when you reach the four and last part, even the plot twist doesn't feel like a twist because who cares.I hope people in secretive clubs all around the globe are having more fun than this.↠ 2.5 starsThanks to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine, Bantam and NetGalley, who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest opinion.
6225060958	I’m saying it now—2024 reads have so far been my overall best year since I’ve started my bookstagram! Lauren Ling Brown’s debut, SOCIETY OF LIES, immediately captured my interest with this stunning cover. Thank you @randomhouse for this gifted copy! The story is centered around Princeton alumni Maya and her investigation into the mysterious death of her sister Naomi. Naomi was supposed to graduate Princeton and Maya was looking forward to reconnecting back to her college days, but Maya is stunned to find out that her sister joined the Sterling Club, the mysterious and exclusive social club on campus. Maya warned her about the Sterling Club since she had joined back in her college days. Maya can’t help but think this club has something to do with Naomi’s death.⁣This book gave me In My Dreams I Hold a Knife vibes! I really had a blast reading this one. This book touches on race and privilege while in college which I felt was a compelling aspect of the book that also helped form the mystery in ways I didn’t expect. This book moved rather quickly and left for many different scenarios for the reader to keep on guessing. I don’t always love dark academia stories, but SOCIETY OF LIES was very compelling. I highly recommend putting this book on your TBR and picking it up once it releases later this summer! STARS: 4, PUB: 8/13
6504998169	Thank you to Random House and Lauren Ling Brown for this debut. It was about Maya, a girl head back to her alma mater to see her sister graduate. But when Naomi turns up dead, the weekend becomes something Maya could have never imagined. Maya knows there is more to the story, especially after she finds out Naomi was in a secret society that Maya warned her against joining. The more she uncovers, the more Maya realizes that Naomi was digging up the past and secrets that went along with it. After all, Naomi wasn’t the first girl found dead at Princeton.Thoughts: This book had the perfect setting. I love an academic thriller, and the setting of Princeton and the eating clubs and secret societies was a great backdrop for this story. I liked the contrasting characters of Maya and Naomi with the rich and privileged students who attended Princeton with them. I thought there were some good points about race and culture and belonging.I think that some of the chapters ended at really weird points that didn’t make much sense. The story was a bit far fetched and I found there to be some loose ends that were never tied up. This was wonderful for a debut, and I think the author will be one to watch. 4 stars for this interesting story!
6999423398	I love books with academic settings! That was what drew me to read this book. I was a little hesitant because I usually don’t like Reese’s Book Club picks 🙊, but I really enjoyed this one! The dual POVs and timelines had me confused initially since it is two female perspectives at Princeton going through similar storylines. However, once I learned my characters it was easy to follow. There is a lot of scandal and real life parallels that made it an emotional one. Naomi’s character development specifically was great. I felt like I knew her and I could relate to her, which really connects you to the story. Also, I loved all the pop culture references from Afrojack to Timothy & Kylie. Definitely recommend you check it out! Like I said - I’m a sucker for academia books ( The Maidens, The It Girl, etc) What is your favorite back drop for books? 📚
6306083770	I was very intrigued with the story itself. But the author making comments all the time about how awful white people are is just getting old really really fast. I wish authors would get past the whole whites are racists etc. It a I think the story could have been cut down a little bit there due to there was a lot of slow parts.
6894960919	Storyline: 4-star ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Ending: 2-star ⭐️⭐️This review might be a little too petty. There are just some things I can't get past. It was good. It really was. I thought the storyline was fantastic and well-written. It did seem to have an overall plotline of "The Maidens" mixed with "Mean Girls." So - not super original - but definitely entertaining and well-written. I'm not going to type out the plot in this review. You probably already know it based on the comparisons to other storylines. I just get so hung up on endings. It's such a pet peeve of mine when an author writes an incredible storyline but just can't end it well. I'm not even trying to project a type of ending. I'm not that picky. REALLY. I just think that books should have well-written endings. They don't even have to resolve or end positively. I would go so far as to say that a publisher should not accept a book that has a crummy cop-out ending. This one just left me tilting my head and saying, "Oh. Okay. Ugh." Come on. This writer was brilliant in the use of her own cross-culture and life. I appreciate how she drew on Princeton's atmosphere and explained the current culture of the school in her author's note. I really do think she's brilliant. I just maybe think that Bantam books should have sent it back to her for revision of the ending before publishing it. Surely they had to know.
7519745999	“Society of Lies” lures you into the hallowed halls of Princeton University, where prestige and secrecy go hand in hand. Maya returns to campus for a reunion and to celebrate her younger sister Naomi’s graduation, but the weekend takes a devastating turn. Naomi is found dead, and the police call it an accident. Maya refuses to accept that. From the outset, it establishes a rich atmosphere of elite privilege and hidden danger. There is a dual timeline: Maya in the present, digging into her sister’s death, and flashbacks to both Maya’s student days and Naomi’s final months. That structure creates suspense and gradually lifts the veil on the club known as the Sterling Club (and its even more mysterious inner circle). The world of exclusive eating clubs, legacy admissions, and hidden hierarchies is vividly depicted. Ling Brown pays attention to how identity, race, and privilege intersect within this elite context. Maya and Naomi being biracial adds a layer of tension and insight. As Maya uncovers Naomi’s involvement with the Sterling Club and confronts her own past choices, the novel raises questions about who belongs, what hiding costs you, and how far people will go to protect status. The twists accumulate and the stakes rise as secrets from a decade ago clash with current betrayal. Overall, “Society of Lies” is a compelling thriller with ambition and style. The dark academia setting, secret societies, sisterhood, and moral complexity give it real weight.
6285015968	This was just ok. I found myself pretty bored for most of it. It’s bad when I don’t care to find out how someone died and watch the mystery unfold… audio made it a quick listen.
6622895560	Dark academia.. yes please!! I do love a book set in a school, and this is Princeton. Surely all the students are busy studying to so their best and get the careers they have always desired right? think again….Maya is devastated when her younger sister Naomi is found dean in a lake near the campus. She is sure that her sister would not take her own life and she knows the darkness that lurks behind the walls of this prestigious school. Maya was once a student here and has her own dark past that she does not want to come back. What did her sister get caught up in? This was a tough book to read at times. Full of characters that you will absolutely loathe. A story of the rich getting richer, the connections people so desperately want and secret societies. So many lies. It was a fabulous debut novel that is well worth a read. Thanks so much to Random House Publishing Ballantine, Bantam for my advanced copy of this book to read on Netgalley. Publishes on October 1st.
6750676426	3 generous stars. Prestigious secret societies, great storyline, loved the setting. Maya and Naomi, sisters-12 years apart, both lucky enough to be in the society’s and both involved in a mystery while there. Didn’t see the killer coming, thought l did but nope. Very slow burn mystery, definitely not thriller. Took me forever to finish despite being ready for it to be over. Hindsight wish I would have stopped sooner. Lots of underlying tones/statements involving race threaded throughout that to me were unnecessary, not very classy and added nothing good to the story. As well as some demeaning police statements. Thanks to netgalley for my electronic advanced reader copy in exchange for my honest review. All opinions are mine.
7010133146	Weird ending?? Review to come
6414767306	A twisty dark academia mystery told from two sisters points of view and has a dual timeline, All of my favorite things. I really enjoyed this slow burn mystery. It kept me guessing and on my toes. I liked the characters and enjoyed trying to solve the mystery. Maya seeks answers after the mysterious death of her sister Naomi. Naomi, a Princeton student was found dead on campus and the police are ruling it an accident but a sister's intuition is rarely wrong. Maya believes that her sister's death is connected to a decade old mystery and secret from her very own time as a Princeton student. The sisters seemed very close on the outside but as time goes on Maya realizes that both and her younger sister are hiding and holding onto sinister secrets. Many thanks to Netgalley and Penguin Random House for the gifted copy. All opinions are my own.
6909954128	Bored and completely incapable of mustering up interest in the murder or the past. Not awful, but very typical setting, structure, characters, writing, with nothing particularly outstanding so far. Confusing/similar-sounding POVs, too. DNF around 40%.
7003443420	Wow, I have no idea what to say but can say that this book talks about real problems and can be very touching. It made me feel emotions. I love a book that can actually speak! A good mystery too. 4.75
6391762158	✨A R C • R E V I E W✨Society of Lies // Releases: August 13, 2024#ad I received a gifted copy of this book - many thanks to @penguinrandomhouse + @laurenlingbrown #partner “I hope she never loses this feeling of wonder. I don’t want her to know about the bad things in this world — the bad people,” (3). This book was a blast to read. The prologue pulls you right in and you instantly know this will be a fun read. Maya hasn’t been back to her college, Princeton, in over a decade. But when it’s her sister’s turn to graduate she couldn’t be prouder. Although her sister, Naomi, and her have a gap in their ages and don’t have the best relationship, Maya is excited to see her sister again. But all that excitement will fade when Maya learns that her sister has had a terrible accident and is dead. Maya can’t process what is happening. She feels guilty for not warning her sister enough, and now she’s having a hard time coming to terms with what had happened while Maya attended the school. A secret society, hidden crimes, and a death investigation take us on the ride from hell as we move through this book. The story alternates between Maya now and Maya when she attended Princeton, 10 years ago. We also get to follow Naomi’s life going back several months and leading up to her death. While shifting timelines usually annoy me, Brown has done a phenomenal job writing this book. All the timelines kept me hooked and I couldn’t stop reading. I had to figure out what had happened to Naomi and what Maya experienced while she was at the school. This is a fast-paced read that’ll keep you glued to the pages. The writing is perfect and the mystery keeps you reading. A fantastic debut, I’ll definitely be following this author to see what she creates next. Was it a tragic accident as they claimed, or is Maya right and something more sinister was happening at Princeton, to her sister? You’ll want to read this one. #societyoflies #penguinrandomhouse #bookrecommendations #bookstagram #readmorebooks #alwaysreading #bookhoarder #bookstack #reads #book #bookworms #bookrecommendation #bookaesthetic #bookshelves #readabook #readmore #books #bookworm
6896815485	3.5 Stars for Society of Lies (audiobook) by Lauren Ling Brown read by Brie Carter and Chandler Gregoire. Big sister is attending her Princeton college reunion and while she’s there she’s going to get to see her younger sister graduate. But instead the younger sister ends up being killed. The older sister is desperate to find out how this happened and who is responsible.
6145294907	First of all, I loved this novel because I work where it was set, in Princeton, New Jersey!As a high school counselor I am used to hearing about the myths and mystique of the Ivy League school only 4 blocks away. This book takes these myths and explodes them! Think secret clubs, and spy-level connections. Society of Lies is a thrilling story of what a Princeton Alum does when her younger sister dies at Princeton only days before graduation. Lauren Ling Brown provides multiple points of view and a variety of flashbacks to build a story where no one is safe. Ling Brown creates fascinating characters and a believable setting. Through her own experiences and those of her friends, Ling Brown is also able to detail on campus racism and the feeling of being "other," which an especially poignant layer to the story.If you love a bit of dark academia with your thrillers, this book is for you! #Randomhouse #societyoflies #Laurenlingbrown
6765682740	This has been the year of the debut-I swear! Society of Lies is as delicious and addictive as the cover. Secrets, deception, *very* dark academia and over privileged people….I mean what could go wrong right?I was pulled right in from the beginning. Not only do we have dual POVs of the sisters but it is also dual timelines. That always keeps my interest, especially in a thriller. I get my armchair detective cap on. The setting of Princeton is fantasy and you really get all of the fall vibes with it. Not only was this a thriller, but the novel really delves into privilege, race and socioeconomic norms within an Ivy League University. I don’t want to say too much more and ruin things…just get it! You wont be sorry. Thank you @laurenlingbrown for my copy! 4.5 rounded up**
6797098981	This book was kind of a let down. It follows multiple povs and covers the mysterious death of a student atPrinceton who belongs to one of their secret societies.The premise of the book is unique and cool- but it just fell kind of flat for me. I had a hard time pushing through and didn’t feel super excited to pick it up or finish it. I did figure out the twist as well but that didn’t impact how I felt about the book. I just felt like the book skipped back and forth too much and the development of the actual story and plot was lacking.Still a decent read- just not my favorite or one I’ll reach back for personally.
6152088530	This is a little hard for me to rate. I did enjoy myself, but… I guess I found it to be just a little too long. I think it would have been a better story if 50-75 pages were cut out. The resolution took a very long time to get started, and I found myself a bit let down by the ending. The big reveal didn’t make sense to me, and their motivations didn’t ring entirely true. Now that I’m writing this out, maybe the ending bothered me more than I thought. It’s a little too neat, and I have some serious reservations about some of the other characters…but maybe that would make for a good sequel.All this to say, I liked the main characters, and I cared about the whos and whys. You really feel for both sisters, as the timelines jump back and forth. There’s a fair amount of suspense here, and plenty of “footsteps behind me” scenes that will get your heart rate up. Before I read this, I knew next to nothing about Princeton, and now I know that an “eating club” is not a club where students have an internationally-themed potluck once a week. That was my first thought, haha! I was thinking, my goodness, they are SERIOUS about their food at Princeton!Also, shout out to the author for keeping the romance non-explicit. We know characters are hooking up, but it ends quickly, and we’re moving on to the next scene—as it should be, in my opinion. We don’t need no stinkin’ sex scenes. Thank you to NetGalley, Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine and the author for an advance copy in exchange for my honest feedback. 3.75 stars, rounded up.
7569171904	So many twists in this unique take on a whodunnit. We have Maya trying to piece together what happened to her sister’s suspicious death, but there is so much more to figure out. Everyone is a suspect and so many crimes have been covered up along the way. The book is told in both the perspective of Maya and her deceased sister, Naomi and we switch timelines to piece together what’s really happening. I did like this style, as both sisters are figuring out the same events in differing timelines. So many potential suspects and so many potential motives. There are so many characters and all are shady as hell. Including Maya. That’s my biggest gripe with the book as that I genuinely thought all the characters, save for Naomi were insufferable. The book did drag at times, I think largely because I wasn’t invested in any of the characters except the one we know from the start is dead. The ending is made to be neatly packaged for the reader but it still leaves questions that seem like loose ends. We are told what happened, but we are just ignoring evidence that readers were told just a chapter before? Why? That doesn’t make sense.
6720156909	2 stars--meh.Shallow writing, shallow characters, and I couldn't tell the difference between the voices of the two narrators. The author constantly tells us things like the characters get together "to discuss poetry, art, and politics, and ways in which we could benefit the Society," but never actually shows us these conversations on the page. I'm not sure how any of the characters got into Princeton; they all seemed vapid (and I'm also unsure how some of them afforded it!).I did enjoy the setting and learning about Princeton's eating clubs, however, which are a real thing!
6945536442	Exited at page 55. Apparently the whole book is going to be about racism, both perceived and actual. Not what I signed up for. 🙄
6978978127	I have a feeling every time I think about this book my thoughts on it will change but currently immediately post read I’m not mad about it and had a fine time with it
6833294635	Genre: College Murder MysteryPublisher: Random HousePub. Date: Oct. 21, 2024Mini-ReviewThe story revolves around a university’s secret fraternities/sororities that are lethal to two sisters who were in them. “Society of Lies” by Lauren Ling Brown is a wannabe for Alex Michaelides” “The Maidens,” but not as good. If you haven’t read “The Maidens” you may enjoy this novel more than I did.I received this Advance Review Copy (ARC) novel from the publisher at no cost in exchange for an honest review.Find all my book reviews at:https://www.goodreads.com/review/list…https://books6259.wordpress.com/https://www.barnesandnoble.com/review…https://www.facebook.com/martie.neesr…
6530887327	I usually love having duel timelines and multiple POV, especially in a thriller. However, these timelines just bled together way too much for me. It was difficult to differentiate THEN and another THEN, and the NOW scenes. Everything was just too similar, as well as the inner character voices, that I couldn’t get invested. With things being so repetitive, it made the book feel longer than it actually was. This was actually the longest it’s taken me to finish a book in years, it took me a whole eight days to get through less than 400 pages. I was too bored and uninterested to read for very long stretches of time. I think this could be a better read for others, but for me, this wasn’t it. Thank you to the publisher for the gifted ARC
6351364861	I am obsessed with books about secret societies on campus settings so o was excited to meet this. I thought the story was ok, but it did leave me with some unanswered questions. It centers on sisters Maya and Naomi, who both attend Princeton 10 years apart and get drawn into the dark underbelly of a corrupt eating club. When Naomi is found dead (which the reader finds out immediately), Maya is convinced there is more to the story and sets out to investigate what really happened. The book alternates chapters between Naomi’s POV before her death and Maya’s POV in current time as well as from her own college days. Though the chapters were labeled clearly, I did sometimes have to reframe myself to remember which sister’s chapter it was, as they both took place in the same setting but with an entirely different cast of characters. I could empathize with both protagonists at times, though I didn’t necessarily agree with the decisions they made. The story itself was twisty, albeit somewhat predictable, and the author did a good job at tying up all the loose ends around how all the different pieces fit together. I did walk away with some lingering questions around how and why Maya even got involved with all of this to begin with, and around some pieces of the scandal. Overall, it was an interesting read and a well written book, but left me wanting just a little more. I’d give it 3.5 stars, rounded up. Thanks to Netgalley for providing me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
6452066308	If you love dark academia and secret societies, you’re going to NEED to read this book.Society of Lies delves into the dark side of the secret societies (and secret societies IN those secret societies) in prestigious colleges and what they are able to get away with. We follow sisters Maya and Naomi in the past and present leading up to Naomi’s death. The story works to unravel two mysteries that have been heavily covered up.It took me a bit to get used to the POVS since Maya has a past and present POV and her experiences are very similar to Naomi’s. But once I got that figured out, I was absolutely HOOKED. The dark academia vibes in this book are everything you want them to be. I thought the end got to be a little rushed and hard to believe and Naomi’s POV felt very immature at times but it was still SO good. The journey the sisters go on separately to unravel the secrets within their secret society made the book impossible to put down. Definitely recommend! Thank you to NetGalley for this ARC!
6994712418	There is something about a secret society that perks my ears up every time. It makes me ask all kinds of questions about traditions and history and having that sense of belonging. I also feel like there is an added layer of curiosity because most secret societies have a lot of wealth involved. This had ALL of these things and threw in a prestigious college- Princeton. I was intrigued by this one from the back cover. It follows the story of two sisters separated by 10 years. We have Maya who went to Princeton and made the decision to do what needed to be done to help her sister get closer to her and in a stable environment. Then we have Naomi who was at Princeton but is found dead on campus with all kinds of questions. How did this happen? Who could have done this to her? These questions are what I LOVE about a murder mystery. I always try to unravel the mystery before it is revealed, and clearly I still have work to do because I did NOT see the end of this one coming. I really liked the dual timeline and dual POV in this one. We followed Maya back in her college days with all of that drama. We followed Maya today after learning her sister had been killed. We also follow Naomi leading up to her death. Lauren did a grab job of weaving a lot together to get this story that consisted of so much more than a murder. There was cover up, class differences, and the burning question of how far would you go to protect yourself and the people you love. Maya is at Princeton getting ready for her sister Naomi to graduate when news hits that her sister isn't here because her body has been found by the lake. The more Maya digs the more she learns that her sister was digging into a tragedy that had occurred at Princeton while Maya was there. A tragedy that Maya is very familiar with. Now Maya is trying to peel back the layers of what happened all those years ago and mixing that with what she has learned about the life Naomi was living. The life that Maya didn't know a lot about. Just when she thinks she knows more about what happened, her whole world shifts when the true killer comes to focus. How could she have missed this? How is she going to survive this? Naomi decides to help her roommate uncover some serious allegations about a secret society that she is in. Along the way she gets glimpses of a tragedy that occurred while her sister was there. Naomi finds herself in a tangled web of deceit and power that goes way beyond her. Before she realizes it, she is in too deep and can't seem to find her way out. She just hopes that everything she did wasn't in vain. This was a nice paced mystery with the added element of SECRETS. We had glimpses of wealth and secret societies in college. We had peer pressure and what that looks and feels like. We had relationships- all kinds of relationships. Your college friends and how those morph into lifelong friends. And then the family kind where you may do things outside of your wheelhouse to protect those you love. I liked this one a lot and would definitely recommend if you are looking for a suspenseful whodunnit!! Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
7196314669	A dark academia mystery that manages to do something different within the genre. The focus is on two sisters experiences at Princeton, years apart, except we learn from the beginning that the younger sister, Naomi, dies. Ling Brown Opens a bigger conversation about college admissions, classism, racism, and the struggles of being mixed race in a primarily white environment. Way better than I expected it to be. It does read a bit long, but I enjoyed the world I was in, so I didn't mind.
7539938641	I really enjoyed Society of Lies—the mystery was gripping, and the whole secret society/elite college vibe pulled me in right away. It had all the dark academia elements I love, plus an emotional layer with the sisters’ relationship.But I didn’t love the back-and-forth between Naomi and Maya’s timelines. It felt a bit jarring and took me out of the story at times. I think it would’ve worked better if it was split into parts—like Part 1 for Naomi and Part 2 for Maya—so each story could unfold more naturally.Still, the ending delivered, and I was invested.
7177931347	An overall boring and incohesive book without a single likable character. I was rolling my eyes at the constant “I’m such a victim because of my race” and “white people are awful and privileged” narrative that was thrown into this book. Turns out, the author is a daughter of a lawyer and an engineer so I’m just a little confused as to why she think she’s had such a bad life that she needs to dunk on people because of their skin color. I could’ve gotten over that theme if the rest of the book was decent, however, it wasn’t.
6227155097	Thank you to Random Hoise publishing & Netgalley for allowing me to read Society of Lies. This was such a fun book to read. A real who done it story! The plot was good, characters were fun to follow, & I didn’t see the ending coming! I am a huge fan of messy characters, secrets, & revenge. This book had it all.
7275969918	This book was so addictive. Dark academia, secrets, relationships, privilege, and MURDER. Basically, the making of a perfect read.You have two POVs Naomi and Maya, sisters, 10 years apart, both go to Princeton. You get to see Mayas POV in present day, and flashbacks to 2011 when she was in school. I loved all the secret society drama and I will admit the twist at the end did surprise me, I thought I had it all figured out. 🫣This was an enjoyable read and listen (yes I’ve entered my audiobook era)
7924183733	This was a decent thriller that was about a 3.4. The different POVs were interesting, but sometimes I had to remind myself whose we were on. I wanted to see what happened in the story, but I wasn’t completely invested. I did think the premise was good though.
6225421407	Thank you so much to the publisher for allowing me to read this book in exchange for an honest review.I was absolutely hooked from page 1, actually the cover if I’m honest.This book is centered around secret societies within Harvard. It touched on secret societies within secret societies. They call the regular secret society eat clubs, but that is only a small portion of what happens if you are in one. Maya & her younger sister, Naomi both choose Harvard for their school of choice. Maya is able to graduate and continue her life, but Naomi doesn’t even make it to her graduation because she’s been asking questions about a future Harvard student, Lila, and what actually happened during her death.It’s a page turner! I won’t go into the ending as you’ll quite enjoy reading it yourself, but it asks the question are all the societies and admissions sticking to their own policies? Or do they let their n anyone who could assist with donations?Very interesting theme for a book! This is a debut author and I will definitely be adding her in my watched authors.
6822072822	If you like to read somewhat seasonally and tend to gravitate towards dark academia in the fall this would be an excellent choice for you! I love a campus novel and add in secret societies, sisters and some mysteries and I’m hooked. This flips between sisters Maya in the past and present and Naomi in the months leading up to her death and while the chapters were mostly short, the pacing was more steady. This isn’t a one sitting type of read, it’s the kind where you wanna sink your teeth into it and spend some time with it which is exactly how I read it. Though there is one core mystery there are several other threads making this such a multifaceted read and the author also explored race and privilege in this setting in such a smart and gripping way. It had a ton of depth and substance so if you like mysteries with layers try this.
6157264343	I love dark academia and was intrigued by the book's Princeton setting with its secret societies. The dual POV's and multiple timelines seemed to confuse many readers, but I had no trouble following the storyline, aside from the fact that the voices of Maya and Naomi were not particularly distinctive. A multilayered plot filled with secrets, betrayals, murder and cover ups, this was a story that touched on many different themes-family, friendship, loyalty, money, power and privilege, race and culture-but I thought they all tied into the story nicely. A strong debut novel.
6957923190	Between 3 and 4. A good story but I thought it needed to be tightened up, it dragged in a few places. I also (personal preference) wish we heard a lot more about the secret society, but this really focused on the sisters.
6348877624	Thanks Netgalley for allowing me to read this book. Maya is excited to return home and see her sister graduate from college. She is surprised when her sister does not answer any of her calls. This book was well written.
6900236878	This book was hard for me to follow**read the majority while i was not sober last night
6280823849	3.5 closer to 4 ⭐️Being from NJ and having family in the Princeton area, this book peaked my interest from the beginning. You are taken into from the perspective of two sisters, Maya and Naomi, who have gone through very different experiences during childhood but somehow similar experiences during their college years at Princeton. Secret societies, collegiate scandals, and an insight on the living of the privileged. Being Asian, I also admired the subtle but powerful inclusions of racial discrimination and judgement and bystander effect. That being said, I did think that the story started out very strong but towards the last quarter of the book spiraled into many things at once. I felt that I had to keep track of characters, motives, etc. I personally felt there was a lot thrown together at the end and some loose ends still needed to be tied. Overall, I would give this book a 3.5/5 stars and am excited to read more from Lauren Ling Brown!Thank you go NetGalley, the publisher, and author for my advanced reader copy in exchange for my honest review!
5981265342	"Society of Lies" is a captivating murder mystery that masterfully navigates between two timelines, immersing the reader in the enigmatic world of a prestigious university where dark secrets are hidden behind ivy-covered walls. The dark academia atmosphere and the authentic depiction of college relationships transport the reader back to their own college days. Brown’s skillful storytelling and suspenseful writing make her a rising star in the genre. I am eagerly anticipating her next work.
6942201115	Top 3 worst books I’ve ever read. I’d only recommend this book to you if there’s someone you have beef with and you’re looking to give them an awful time - tell them to read this. I only even finished it because I’m a religious “I will finish what I start, even if I’d rather put bleach in my eyes.”She just kept throwing crap at the wall to see what would stick and I’m here to tell ya - none of it stuck. Time to go put bleach in my eyes.
7715614251	Trying to understand how this book got so many 3⭐️ reviews… I was entertained the entire story and found myself trying and failing to guess the suspect much like I would with a Frieda McFadden. Loved the different point of views from the two sisters and from past and present. Adored the concept of secret societies in big IV league schools that most of us will never experience. 10 out of 10 highly recommend. Please do yourself a favor, add this to your TBR.
7717024354	Lauren Brown's debut novel was throught provoking exploration of betrayl, power, sisterhood and the blurred lines between fiction & truth. It was a decent psychological thriller, and well developed murder mystery.
7135433363	Hey so this book was really terrible. I will no longer be reading from Rees’ book club. I have the creativity of a worm and I could have written a better book. Many plot holes.
6227378859	Gosh this book just had so many things I love in a good story… dual POV and timelines, murder mystery, dark academia/a secret society and at an ivy league!!! It took me a little bit to get oriented with the characters but once I got the hang of what was happening with the back and forth POVs, I was super invested and breezed right through the book and enjoyed it so much! Never saw the twist coming and it was a perfect autumn back-to-school read! 🍂I ended up listening on audio and really enjoyed the dual FMC narrators 🎧Thank you so much to PRH, PRHA, Lauren, and NetGalley for the e-galley and free audiobook!
6295925565	First of all, a HUGE thank you to NetGalley & Random House Publishing Group for allowing me to read this ARC! This is Lauren Ling Brown's debut novel; she did an excellent job presenting Society of Lies!Maya and Naomi are sisters who attend Princeton ten + years apart from each other. When Maya learns her sister has died right before graduation, she is confident this wasn't an accident. She knows too much about the secrets and lies from her own time at Princeton. As Maya begins to investigate Naomi's college life, she learns her sister was hiding more than she led on. Throughout the story, we learn about the corruption and lies of Princeton's secret society, the Sterling Club, and how money can attempt to sweep their secrets under the rug. Maya will stop at nothing to find answers and get the justice Naomi deserves.How did Naomi die? Who can be trusted? Did Maya's involvement with the secret society lead to Naomi’s death?⭐️ ⭐️⭐️⭐️ 4 stars for this debut album! Wow- this was a gripping, fast-paced page-turner from start to finish! A book rarely hooks you in from the beginning, but this one surely did! The second half of the book had twist after unexpected twist! I almost want to reread some parts because there were some twists that I didn't pick up on initially and would love to see the clues that brought us to the ending. I thought I knew exactly what was happening, but I did not predict the ending (I love when this happens)! I thought this story was creative and unlike most suspenseful books I have read. I am impressed this is Brown's first novel! I am excited to read more from her in the future!My only critique of this book was that I occasionally found the dual POVs and alternating timelines a little confusing to follow. There were several characters and I found myself thinking, "Wait, is this Maya or Naomi's point of view?" "Is Amy Maya's friend or Naomi's?" or "Was this in 2011 or 2023?" Overall, very well done! Congratulations on your first novel, Lauren!
6290888834	I really liked this book and then also really didn’t. I absolutely love the premise while giving us an underground society in college that also isn’t a frat house and typical setting we are used to. But it also got incredibly boring to me and really lost a lot of the thriller aspects that these books rely on to continue their story telling. I’m not sure if it would’ve been better slice of life mixed with true crime aspects cause it didn’t really give me thriller like I expected.
6453930261	4.5/5This book was amazing. I couldn’t put it down. It goes between two sisters points of view Maya and Naomi. Both in the past and present. The twists and turns don’t stop. The secret society at Princeton is such an interesting part of the book. How it operates keeps you on your toes. The ending you don’t see coming. Definitely recommend!!!Thank you NetGalley for the ARC
6551382354	First of all, i binged this fucking book in a couple of hours. Second of all, how the fuck is this her debut?! It was a masterpiece. Dark academia with a novel filled with shady characters, timelines, and plenty of death? ✅ couldnt have loved this one more so excited for more of her.
6289182949	Not for meVideo review: https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT2wCe9TQ/
6162801021	You guys! This book was SO good! Even more impressive is that this is the author’s debut novel! Society of Lies is about sisters Maya and Naomi - both attendees of Princeton. Maya had already graduated and was back at the school to attend Naomi’s graduation when she receives a call that her sister was found dead. Told in dual POVs between past and present, we go on a deep dive into the corruption, lies and cover ups within the university and secret societies. I LOVE anything dark academia and this did NOT disappoint! I thought I had everything figured out a few times but when it came time for the reveal, I was shocked! Get your copy of Society of Lies when it comes out on August 13th!
7955739789	I really loved this up to the end. I'll come back to complain later, though. I need a real keyboard and not a phone. 😂 Soooo good, till the end. 😒
6286059835	This was a fantastic dark academia book! SOCIETY OF LIES is full of secret societies, rich people acting terribly, and deception galore! Lauren Ling Brown kept me on my toes the whole time. I enjoyed get the POVs of both Maya and Naomi as well as dual timelines to show when both sisters were in the Greystone society at Princeton. While writing an enthralling story, Brown highlights race and privilege at the university. This was a fast paced story I really enjoyed! Thanks to Random House for the gifted copy!
7502358343	The story started off a bit slow and took some time to draw me in, but that changed around chapter 16. From that point on, the pace picked up significantly, and the twists and turns in the plot kept me hooked. The last few chapters were especially gripping—I couldn’t put the book down! While it had a slow start, the payoff was worth it in the end.
6233690451	Thank you so much partner @randomhouse for this gifted copy!Society of Liesby Lauren Ling BrownAbout the book 👇🏽Maya has returned to Princeton for her college reunion—it’s been a decade since she graduated, and she is looking forward to seeing old faces and reminiscing about her time there. This visit is special because Maya will also be attending the graduation of her little sister, Naomi.But what should have been a dream weekend becomes Maya’s worst nightmare when she receives the news that Naomi is dead. The police are calling it an accident, but Maya suspects that there is more to the story than they are letting on.As Maya pieces together what happened in the months leading up to her sister’s death, she begins to realize how much Naomi hid from her. Despite Maya’s warnings, Naomi had joined Sterling Club, the most exclusive social club on campus—the same one Maya belonged to. And if she had to guess, Naomi was likely tapped for the secret society within it.🕯️My thoughts:“How far would you go to belong?”Well I just couldn’t stop reading this! Ridiculously entertaining and twisty, what’s not to love? The secrets, the lies, the mystery… loved it all. This story is layered so well and just when I thought I had it figured out, I didn’t. Although the POVs would blur together because they were similar… it was all tied up nicely in the end and I still enjoyed the story all the same! This story took its time to unfold and every moment I devoured. I’ll be recommending this one! Society of Lies is out now!Happy reading 📖🕯️
6799387282	This was my first ARC read and it did not disappoint. If you’re a fan of dark academia, thriller and mysteries this is going to be the book for you! This book follows Maya (a princeton alumni) who visits her prestigious institution on the weekend of her class reunion only to find out her baby sister Naomi (current princeton student) is murdered by someone at the institution. Similar in their stories, Maya becomes apart of this secret society (10 years in the past) and is covering a secret that can end her career and life forever. 10 years in the present, her sister Naomi is also involved in the same secret society and is caught investigating the events with a local news reporter that may or may not have connections with her older sister!! This book was very very veryyy interesting! Although the jumped timelines can confuse you, it is very mild paced for a thriller. The book keeps you engaged from beginning to end. I think the readers would love this if it ever turned into a movie adaptation. The characters were definitely well developed! ALTHOUGH, i’m not a big fan favorite of Maya lol Overall, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who is a fan favorite of the genres above! thank you NetGalley and Random House Publishing Group for- Bantam for sending this! :)
6230340382	ARC provided in exchange for an honest review.I’m a little backlogged with my ARCs but working diligently to get caught up. I really enjoyed the two sisters and different timelines aspect of this book! Secret societies in universities have always intrigued me so this book held my attention for sure! I loved all the twists and turns and how I didn’t know where it was headed for sure. If you’re into psychological thrillers and mysteries, be sure to check this book out!
