2891772884	(2.75) Murder mystery in a magical school? Sounds right up my alley!Sadly I ended up being a bit bored. The story simply wasn't very memorable.
2002828686	Magic for Liars follows private investigator Ivy Gamble as she investigates a death in the Osthorne Academy for Young Mages, the workplace of her sister and a location she has envied for years. While she’s living a life she thinks of as simple, her sister is a famous and talented teacher. It is a murder mystery wrapped up in an interesting commentary on chosen one tropes and sibling rivalry, and it had me engrossed from start to finish. The thing I find the most entertaining about this book, in a nutshell, is how it plays with established fantasy tropes. Ivy is a Petunia-Dursley type character, in that she is the sister to a girl with magic, who was the favorite of the family. I really enjoyed how that dynamic was explored and tackled, especially as it is mirrored by others. The sibling dynamic, actually, is a huge focus of this book. The relationship between her and Tabitha reaches a level of complexity I was not expecting. There is a chosen one, too, and his sister, whose relationship with him is a neat parallel to our two sisters. As the book progresses, Ivy has to ask herself: is her sister’s world really quite as blissful as she thinks?Ivy is a mess of character whose sense of self is in heavy disrepair, much as she’d like not to admit it. She’s been given the chance to be on equal with her sister, and even to be a different person, and she desperately wants this. Several reviewers on this page seem to have found her whiny, which I frankly do not agree with. Her romantic subplot with Rahul is not so much a romance as a part of her character arc; a chance for her to grow and learn. It seems like several reviewers on this page really didn’t vibe with the writing style here, which is interesting to me, because I really really did. I struggled to put this one down. (If you’ve read this definitely let me know how you felt, as I’m interested by it being polarizing!) I also liked elements of the setting; the opening being set in the Bay Area was fun. The ending of Magic for Liars was, in all honesty, not what I expected; I was expecting some kind of heart-thrilling reveal, some kind of ridiculous plot twist, and what I got was a sort of faster-paced reveal that focused more on the why than on the who. But I felt this worked for the book. The ending left me thinking, doubting, wondering, unsatisfied but not upset with the book. (I think the original blurb’s comparison to Tana French, whose books I have now read, is warranted.)TW: body horror, death from cancer, (view spoiler)[death of a queer character (before story begins). (hide spoiler)]Youtube | TikTok | Spotify | About |
3045072311	2, how did a Veronica Mars/Harry Potter mash up end up flopping so hard stars!Full review featured on my blog Recipe and a Read!Ivy and Tabitha Gamble are twins. They share parents, DNA, a home and a childhood full of beautiful, loving and happy memories. What they don’t share, is magic. Tabitha (Tabby), Ivy’s twin sister is gifted with powers beyond either of their imaginations and upon their inception Tabby is whisked away to a modern day Hogwarts and eventually begins teaching Theoretical Magic at Osthorne Academy for Young Mages. While Tabitha is away at school learning how to make her skin more luminous, change the dreary color of her hair and make plants grow in the dead of winter; Ivy is at home watching her family fall apart. Her mother is dying of cancer and her father is dying from a broken heart and there’s nothing Ivy can do. She isn’t magical, she’s just a normal girl watching her normal mother wither away in front of her.Well, I wouldn’t have run my fingers across the letters then, either. I probably wouldn’t have given them a second glance. I’ve never been good at recognizing what moments are important. What things I should hang on to while I’ve got them.Ivy may not be magic, but what she is, is a damn good Private Investigator whose carved out a life of her own from the rubble her sister left behind. Color Ivy surprised when after locking her door behind her she receives an unexpected visitor who knows more about her than she should. Headmaster Torres from Osthorne is here to solicit the help of Ivy, a PI with at least a minor understanding of the magical goings-on at the Academy. A beloved teacher has been found in the library, sliced clean in half and the investigative team has deemed it a spell gone wrong instead of what Torres knows it clearly to be: a murder. So begins Ivy’s foray into a magical world that’s always been just beyond her reach. As she entrenches herself in her estranged sisters life and the world of spells and magical teenagers she finds a whole lot more than she bargained for.She smiled past the bloodstains on the carpet. “She treated everyone like a person. It’s rarer than you’d think.” She drew a breath. “Her body was there, and there.” Torres indicated each of the butterfly wings of the stain.What a synopsis though, right!? When I saw this baby was releasing this year I couldn’t wait to get my hands on it. I was envisioning the perfect blend of an adult Harry Potter mashed up with the best PI around, Veronica Mars. However, what I got was something that left me sorely disappointed. I will say that Gailey really deviated from the norm here and the nuance of poking fun at the “chosen one” trope isn’t lost on me. While the idea here I think is top notch, the execution left me wanting more for almost the entirety of the read.I don’t have to love all the characters of a book to love the book itself. However, Ivy took the whining MC trope to an entirely new level that made me not only dislike her, but not want to spend any time with her either. That’s a bad place to be when it’s the only POV you’ve got. I appreciated the difficulty of what it must be like to live in a world where you know magic exists but you’re decidedly not magic and your sister gets the life you’ve always dreamed of. I can’t even say that I wouldn’t be exactly the same if I were in her shoes. However, when I’m reading I want the suspension of reality a bit. While you do have to suspend reality because…you know, magic; I would’ve loved to have seen more depth and dimension to Ivy. She felt very one-dimensional to me and her inner monologue of “poor me, I’m not magic” grew tired as the pages wore on.An ache gripped my chest, sudden and overwhelming. That’s my sister. Even after everything–even with everything that was still between us, that would probably always be between us–she was my sister. I was born reaching for her.I appreciated the complexity of Ivy’s relationship with her sister and the originality of the idea behind the plot. However, in the end I felt consistent disappointment and it was a bit of a chore to keep going. The writing, at times, was a bit much and the amount of similes used was astounding. The plot genuinely did not pick up past much of Ivy wallowing in self-pity for being ordinary until the last 30 or so pages. The final “twist” if you can call it that, was yet another moment where I found myself again, wanting more from the characters and more from the story overall. I’m not saying this book isn’t for anyone, but it definitely wasn’t for me.
2796396810	4 stars! It might take a little while to get there, but I'll tell you everything, and I'll tell you the truth. As best I can. I used to lie, but when I tell you the story, you'll understand why I had to lie. You'll understand that I didn't have a choice. I just wanted to do my job. This was a fun read for me! 1. I got to read something that's completely out of my comfort zone - sci-fi and fantasy (with a bit of mystery) 2. I got to buddy read this with my husband!Ivy is a detective but right now the extent of her work is only being hired to find out if someone's spouse is cheating on them. Ivy is like any normal person and she has a family but her sister is a little different than yours and mine. Ivy's sister Tabitha was born with magic powers and is able to make things happen with spells, etc.One day, Ivy gets called in on a special case and it just so happens to be a murder at her sister's school who she hasn't seen in many years. She sets up to move there, and into the dead person's apartment no less, and has to stay on campus until she figures out what happened. She interviews students, staff and even tries to reconcile a bit with her sister. Through her interviews she starts to put the puzzle pieces together. She both is and isn't shocked at all the parties involved in the end but the reasoning behind it really hits home...I gave this book a 4 star rating and my husband gave it a 3.5 star rating. We both enjoyed multiple aspects of this story such as the detective storyline and the sister relationship that somewhat evolved during the story. I also enjoyed the family story that came about within this book. The author touches on the family story throughout the book and you can see how Ivy and Tabitha's actions today translate to what has happened to them in the past.I'm glad I took the leap and decided to read something different from what I normally do again. I think the magic aspects of this book were still a little too outside the box for my liking (again just personal preference) but I actually came to enjoy most of the story and the meaning behind it while also opening my imagination.This was a great debut by Sarah Gailey and if this sounds like something you'd enjoy then definitely pick it up! It releases June 4th!Thanks to Tor Books for my ARC and finished copies of this book.
2839322552	This book didn't work well for me... I wasn't really interested by what was going on. It was very predictable, but I wanted to finish it just in case, you know? In case something incredible would happen and the ending would satisfy me.The story lacked the magic feeling I was looking for. I skipped the parts where the spells were explained, I thought it was too complicated and it didn't mean anything to me.On the positive side, I appreciated reading about Ivy's relationships with her sister and with the other character that I won't name ;) She made me think of Izzy Spellman in the series written by Lisa Lutz, that I really liked.The ending was okay, but I had guessed two important things (I don't think I'm that good a detective... the hints were pretty obvious).In the end, I recommend this book if you liked The Magicians... That's what is written on the cover, and since I didn't like this one either (didn't finish it, in fact), maybe it's a good advice haha!
2836448719	I love the combination of magic with a PI and a murder case, so I was looking forward to reading this book. Unfortunately, I didn't love the book as much as I love the concept.I have low tolerance for characters (and people) who wallow in self-pity. Ivy, the PI and narrator of this story, is queen of the 'woe is me' category. Her whining is a constant throughout the story. I wanted to give her a shake and tell her to grow up, though with less polite wording.I loved the way the magic was handled. This isn't your typical magic of fiction, but something more complex and intriguing. For the most part, we only see this on the periphery. I would've liked to be immersed in the magical world.If you're familiar with the cartoon Scooby-Doo, then you have a good sense of the murder mystery aspect of the plot. Ivy did a whole lot of bumbling around. She'd fail to follow up on obvious clues, and she'd brush off things people said as unimportant. For the most part, she was too busy wallowing to follow the clues being dropped all around her. I found it maddening, particularly since I figured it out long before she began connecting the dots.And, finally, the ending lacks closure. We find out the whodunit, but then nothing is actually done about the whodunit. Ivy's personal life, which was a major focus throughout, is also left up in the air. So if you prefer solid endings, you won't like this one.The writing itself is good. This is an easy read that flows well. I just wanted more of some things, and a whole lot less of others.*I received a review copy from the publisher, via BookishFirst.*
2963655494	The cover and synopsis and title of the novel were all immediately intriguing to me. Magic for Liars is a murder mystery on a magical high school campus, told from the perspective of the nonmagical private eye who finds herself on the case. You can see why I was intrigued, right? Noir novels can be very hit or miss, but this one was definitely a hit. It was everything I was hoping for, and more than I was expecting.Ivy Gamble is a wonderfully developed character. She comes across a bit as a down-on-her-luck gumshoe detective at the beginning of the book, but she grows and changes so much throughout the book. When she is approached to look into a mysterious death on the campus of a magic school, the campus where her magical twin sister teaches, no less, Ivy is incredibly conflicted. She has no real relationship with her sister and doesn’t want to encroach on her world, but the pay is too good for her starving coffers to pass up. Ivy suddenly finds herself trying to balance a rekindling relationship with her sister, a burgeoning romance with one of the school’s teachers, the teenage drama running wild in the hallways, the questionable death that brought her to the school in the first place… and lies. Lots and lots of lies.The mystery elements of this novel were really fun, but my favorite aspect was the setting. I’m a sucker for any kind of school story, especially if that school is magical. What I loved so much about The Osthorne Academy for Young Mages is that it’s not Hogwarts. There’s nothing mystical about it. Osthorne is exactly like a real life preppy, private high school, but where magic is taught alongside your average subjects. I thought the lack of robes and moving stairways and haunted forests was incredibly refreshing, even though I adore all of those elements. I also really liked how scientific the magic was, and the medical implications that were discussed throughout. And the fact that our main character is an outsider looking in on this magical world was a wonderful change, as well. I enjoyed getting to see magic from the perspective of someone incapable of using it.I really liked Magic for Liars. Is it a book that I’ll remember forever and add to my shelf of lifetime favorites? No. But it was a fun ride that I would have no problem recommending to others. It’s great for what it is, and well worth reading.You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.
2550503767	Magic For Liars may be set at a school of magic, but we're on notice from the very first page that this is not THAT kind of school:Now they were all downstairs at the welcome-back dinner, an all-staff-all-students meal that marked the end of the first week of classes. They'd joke there about house-elves and pumpkin juice -- or at least the freshmen would. By the time they were sophomores, that vein of humor was worn beyond use.After a bloody murder at Osthorne Academy for Young Mages (located in the vicinity of Sunol, California -- less than an hour's drive from San Francisco or Oakland), private investigator Ivy Gamble is called in to help solve the case. Magical authorities have deemed it an accidental death due to a spell gone bad, but the school's headmaster thinks there's more to be discovered... and since Ivy is the non-magical twin sister of a professor at the school, she seems to be the right choice to lead the investigation.The assignment at Osthorne is fraught with tension and high emotional stakes for Ivy. She and sister Tabitha have been estranged for years, really since Tabitha was selected to go to an elite magic school when they were teens. Their paths diverged sharply from that point onward, and the two have never managed to reconnect, especially in the aftermath of their mother's death while Tabitha was away at school.Now arriving at Osthorne, Ivy sets out to solve the murder while also trying to understand who Tabitha is now, and who she herself might have been if she'd had magic too. Ivy's journey is painful to witness, as she drinks herself through her tumultuous feelings every night and lets herself become consumed by the mysterious death and the suspicious undercurrents at the schoolI love Sarah Gailey's writing -- I loved it in the American Hippo books, and she's totally on point here as well, conveying the otherworldliness of the magical world while rooting it in a grim and grimy reality that has more than a shade of noir to it. What magical school doesn't have a library with weird and dangerous sections? Here at Osthorne, Ivy hears:... the books murmuring to each other like a scandalized congregation of origami Presbyterians.Isn't that delicious?Some other choice bits:Across the bay, San Francisco bled money like an unzipped artery..... andThe drive through the Sunol hills was as beautiful as the novocaine that comes before the drill.Certain magic school tropes makes appearances too -- there's a Prophecy and a Chosen One, for starters, as well as the more mundane clique of popular girls who flutter around the central Mean Girl and all sorts of relationship drama, both appropriate and not.The plot zooms along quickly, and sometimes reality can be a slippery thing. Ivy's investigations are often clouded by the magical elements around her, but even so, she applies her skills and street smarts to get to the shocking truth. The resolution is pitch-perfect, and even though I guessed at the outcome ahead of time, that did not detract at all from the impact and the shock when the answers are finally revealed.Magic For Liars is, plain and simple, a terrific read. Don't miss it!Review copy courtesy of the publisher via NetGalley. Full review at Bookshelf Fantasies.
3924912181	This was a weird book. If you like Mercy Thompson or October Daye but wondered if someone could make it more melodramatic and awkward, you will likely enjoy this.Content warnings (view spoiler)[ cancer, loss of a loved one, statutory rape, abortion, alcoholism, emotional abuse, gore (hide spoiler)]Things that kept me from DNFing:-Nods at real teen troubles. I liked that we didn't infantilize teens or make magic school substantially different from regular high school.-It was fast. I got through it in pretty short order.The problem areas:-Yucky characterization. OMG the MC is suuuuuuuch a whiner! And kept talking about her sister like she was obsessed with her. I kept expecting her to wear her sister's clothes and steal her life or that incest would spring up. Very uncomfortable. On top of that she's an alcoholic and we talk about the alcoholism like her life drives her to it, but...nothing bad happens to her? And alcoholism doesn't need something bad, but it felt like someone who didn't understand addiction writing about addiction.-Ugh, romance. I have this problem with most UF books. Not to say that private investigators can't have love lives, but kind of bad form to develop feelings for a MURDER SUSPECT.-Ridiculous investigation. I'd pull her license. The process is utter horseshit, I got my steps in from the angry pacing and eyerolling alone.-Ridiculous mystery. It's not really a mystery. It's mostly a "how long can we keep this nonsense going."-Bad worldbuilding. So, this is not uncommon in UF where magic is not common. There's really 2 ways this is handled: it's a fact of life that there's magic, or there's some reason the muggles don't know about it. This went for option C: There are trained magicians out there with expansive private schools in Northern California, but also no one knows about them, even though they do magic at bars, and at home with their families and friends, and randomly throughout the day. -Really gross treatment of kids. I was hopeful, but the ending of this book made me want to beat both sisters up and then prosecute them. How dare they risk kids' futures for their own interests.-Grody ending. This trash human I've come to loathe expects a decent person to want to be with her? Maybe as state's evidence. Wear a red suit and a wire, sir, and get her to tell you how she just spent the past 24 hours.-Audionarrator. Like nails on a chalkboard the constant quaver and "woe is me" tone in her voice. I wanted to shake her until she stopped talking and then drop her off at a therapist.In short, I actually didn't like this but I give it a second star because I wanted to finish this like I want to see the end of one of those really staged reality TV dating shows with disaster humans trying to mate.
3186252862	Remember when The Magicians came on the scene and it was touted as "Harry Potter for Grownups" but was actually "Someone's Bitter They Never Got to Go to Hogwarts or Narnia?"This book is ACTUALLY Harry Potter for Grownups! With a healthy dose of Hardboiled PI Investigates Murder!Ivy Gamble is basically Petunia Dursley: the sister of a gifted mage, who had to suffer through the slings and arrows of regular high school, while her twin went to Super Special Magic School and came home prettier . . . as well as smug and mysterious. It's enough to drive anyone to drink! And so hard-drinking, lonely Ivy has become a private investigator . . . who is hired to solve a brutal murder at the school where her sister is a star teacher. Did one of the faculty do it? One of the students? Was it a spell gone wrong?The mystery was delightfully twisty, the characters were great, the world building . . . and that's why I'm sad now! I wanted more! So much more! I could have read about everyone and their school and Ivy's other cases for days and days! Gailey was having great fun here, and I would love to see them keep on having fun in this world!
4256407951	the premise was good but like i guess i expected the magic school to be more cooler especially from an adults perspective but it just like a normal school?
3080545269	3.5 Stars rounded up. Very solid read! This reminded me of a more mature, slightly less fantastical version of Harry Potter, mainly because of the fact this takes place in a school for magic. Our protagonist is what Potter fans would call a muggle, she has no magic, and she is contracted to investigate the murder of a professor at this wonderful School of magic, and what's her twin sister also works at. This had the obvious element of mystery, as we are trying to figure out who dunnit throughout. I was not surprised by the reveal at all, but still satisfied by how things wrapped up at the end. I would not be surprised if this became a series, as the ending seemed a bit open-ended. The characters were all incredibly flawed, yet likeable, which made this story that much more enjoyable to me. Even our 'villian' received my sympathy, and I really understood their motivations. This was a fast paced, above-average read IMO and I can understand how it made some beat of the year lists!
3912361264	4.5 starsOoh, I enjoyed this book so much! Came for the magic school from the perspective of a non-student, stayed for the nuanced characters, skillfully told mystery, refreshingly adult perspective, unreliable narrator, and all-around good writing.Ivy Gamble is a lonely private investigator, who spends her days stalking cheating spouses and disability claimants and telling herself she definitely doesn’t want to have magic like her glamorous, estranged twin sister, Tabitha. Then she’s offered a job investigating a possible murder at the fancy private high school where Tabitha teaches. It’s a chance to try on a different life as Ivy tries to unravel the many secrets there, while making another attempt at a relationship with her sister and a romance with a sexy teacher.The plot is fun and commits to being a murder mystery—the bulk of Ivy’s time is spent on investigation and interviews—where in a lot of fantasy, the mystery is something of an afterthought. I’m not a big mystery fan, but enjoyed this one. It’s consistently moving forward, with enough clues that readers can come up with convoluted theories along the way and that the answer seems obvious in retrospect, but enough misdirection that I didn’t figure it out in advance. Most fantasy mysteries I’ve read don’t really work—either there’s too little information provided, or the answer is too obvious—so I was pleasantly surprised by how much fun it was trying to figure this one out.The setting is also fun; I love a humorous juxtaposition of magic and mundane, and the combination of a magic school with, for instance, people who talk like real modern people, including teenagers who act and sound like teenagers, is so enjoyable to read. Tidbits like the school secretary griping that girls these days just want the pill rather than learning their bodies well enough to do birth control by magic, and kids using a spell to send each other notes folded in the shape of a Pokémon, really make a setting pop: this is an author who both gets the real world and has folded magic into it. (I’m starting to think I prefer modern real-world settings in fantasy, I just dislike most of the urban fantasy genre’s tropes. Books taking a contemporary fantasy setting in an original or literary direction so often appear among my favorites.)And while the writing is clean and unadorned and the plot moves quickly, this is literary enough that you have to appreciate flawed characters to enjoy it. Ivy is a self-destructive mess with some flawed thinking that’s much more obvious to a reader than to herself (as I suspect would be true for most of us if we had readers in our heads!). There’s power in having a story full of magic told from the POV of the one character without it: there’s this aching longing feeling about the book, Ivy wants magic so badly and can’t have it, she feels herself an outsider even when others don’t necessarily see her that way, and the reader is right there with her because after all, we don’t have magic either. We too are only visitors to this place. And Ivy’s damage feels realistic and also mundane—she went off the rails when her mom died of cancer when Ivy was in high school, and Ivy couldn’t deal with her twin having gifts that she didn’t and sometimes being a jerk about it. Compared to a lot of fantasy this feels a bit “that’s it?” until you remember that a lot of fantasy is way over the top and in the real world, this can totally mess someone up. It’s a trauma that’s actually fathomable, that brings Ivy down to earth, and so much of this book is about bringing fantasy tropes down to earth.And the character work is excellent; I had the sense throughout that these were real people, not fantasy cutouts, but people with lives of their own of which we’re only seeing a small glimpse. Ivy’s difficult, tentative relationship with Tabitha is excellently drawn, and Tabitha herself is a great character about whom the reader ultimately can understand more than Ivy can, caught up as she is in her own emotions. Marion Torres seemed so fascinating I was very sorry to see almost nothing of her in the second half. Overall there’s a lot of great women here—the cast tilts female—without their either turning into a bunch of Strong Woman stereotypes (everybody has their flaws and limitations and Gailey doesn’t seem to be trying to make some point about strength), or being about gender or patriarchy.The portrayal of the teenagers is also great: it’s very much from an adult perspective, someone looking back from her 30s and remembering what high school is like (and wishing she could have gone to a high school like this), but at the same time, far removed from all that now. So the teens come across as actual teens, with their drama and their lack of perspective and their desperately trying on identities and their absolute certainty that they’re right. I think it would have made me defensive to read this book as a teen. But it feels very real as an adult. And it’s a lot of fun to encounter a Chosen One who’s not only not the protagonist but also basically an obnoxious kid who doesn’t have any obvious quest and is wreaking some havoc with careless and petty use of power. In fact, the Chosen One is currently (view spoiler)[the mean girl (hide spoiler)], but the end points to future character growth.Of course, there are a few things I didn’t love. There’s very little worldbuilding outside of the school, which while it’s not necessary for the story, leaves open some questions, like just how common magic is* and why it’s being hidden. There are a few elements of the mystery that don’t quite add up or make Ivy look less than great at her job (major spoilers behind the cut): (view spoiler)[how did Ivy never find out that Sylvia had been MIA for days before her death? And that Tabitha was also missing during that time? Sure, there was a bout of food poisoning, but the staff all live cheek-by-jowl in staff housing, you’d think they’d be aware who was home and might stop in to see if their ill colleagues needed anything. Wouldn’t Mrs. Webb upon seeing the body have immediately realized what had been going on? If she knew and was obstructing the investigation, why? Also, why was Tabitha’s journal in Sylvia’s house—even after all Sylvia’s belongings had been cleared out? Also, if Tabitha could very nearly perform this supposedly impossible operation alone, why couldn’t a surgical team do it? And how likely is it that someone could have cancer all over their body and a month left to live before having symptoms serious enough to bother going to the doctor, or ever missing work? (hide spoiler)]Finally, I wasn’t thrilled with the end. It’s fitting and was clearly set up from the beginning, but also a bit of a downer. And Ivy’s personal epiphany seemed to me the wrong one for this story. (view spoiler)[The epiphany she actually has: that the reason she’s alone is that she avoids forming relationships with people. It seemed to me she knew this already and just couldn’t manage to break the pattern. The epiphany she needed to have: that she doesn’t need magic to be happy or loved or desired, and the “fake Ivy” she was pretending to be was actually her too. She never does seem to figure that one out. (hide spoiler)]Overall though, this book was a lot of fun as well as smart and creative. I would love to see more like this and would definitely recommend. * Mages mostly being discovered by their grade school teachers suggests there are a lot of them, or these chance encounters wouldn’t be likely to happen. Rahul’s knowing the name of every high school a mage might attend in the entire U.S. suggests there are very few.
2916310656	I desperately wanted to love it. It was a tragedy in the making.First, some things I liked Rahul, the main love interest: He must be protectedMagic teenagers being teenagers: YES magic teens would definitely use their magic for the most utterly juvenile things, including lots of penis clouds. A very strong bit of world building from Gailey.And then... the badAlas, ear wax: I find it... insufferable when books reference Harry Potter more than the teensiest amount. This book was, in part, a correction to some of the misteps of the Harry Potter series (see juvenile teens, above). But whyyyy did this particular school for magic children have to exist in a world in which the Harry Potter series ALSO exists? It made for some cringey jokes, annoying references, and it also kind of breaks some of the logic of the world... There doesn't seem to be much care for secrecy among the mages of this world, and it seems to me like the worldwide phenomenon of Harry Potter could very well trigger a "world's colide" type event. But mostly, it was just annoyingBoring and unlikable: I can get behind an unlikable protagonist, ESPECIALLY if it's an unlikable lady. But if a character is unlikable because they're just boring? Whew boy, that makes a book a tedious slog. If all of the supporting characters (besides Rahul! I love you Rahul!) are also unlikable and boring? Oh dear.They are LIARS who LIE!!!111!: I GET IT. 1. It felt corny how frequently the ~unreliable narrator~ stuff was referenced. But also, they don't...? Really...? Lie...? There was never an instance where this was particularly meaningful to the book. The narrator isn't ever actually unreliable.Again, I wanted to like this so much. But I didn't.
3412426651	Honestly, I don't know what to exactly rate this because I was thoroughly enjoying it up until the end. The ending was a letdown, to say the least. It was so anticlimactic, even. If it was meant to be a surprise as to who done it, it wasn't. Not even the slightest. The reasoning behind the unexpected event(s), ever so slightly. Some of the red herrings worked but only for a little while. The further you read on, the more obvious everything becomes. Even before the main character can figure it out. Unsure if that was intended by the author but either way that ending was a disappointment indeed.... I'll go with 3.5🌟... and not rounded up.
2734892566	A solid Urban Fantasy novel: fairly engaging with some attempts at novelty, it didn't ultimately root itself in my brain as overly outstanding.Here's the gist:Ivy Gamble had to be content with a life without magic. Her sister Tabitha, though, has always been a natural. Their paths diverged ages ago, with more than a few hard feelings. When the magic school that Tabitha teaches at experiences a suspicious death, they reach out to Ivy – a private detective – to try to determine what happened. Now Ivy must immerse herself in the world she never got to be a part of, face her sister, and solve a potential murder.If I say Magic for Liars isn't memorable, it isn't because the book is bad; in fact, some narrative choices were quite clever. I thought it was a unique approach that the magical parts of the world weren't filled with whimsy and automatic superiority. Osthorne Academy looks like any other high school, and it mostly struggles with the same sorts of problems. There is no epic evil bad guy steepling his fingers in a tower somewhere. The magic is interesting and, like science, still in its relative infancy in terms of our understanding of it. There was an awful lot I wanted to hear more about, and I think Gailey laid themself a creative foundation.As a schtick, though, I think the author leaned too hard on the mundane. Because we make so much effort to see magic as just another normal thing that's going on in the world, when a more traditional element of the genre is introduced – a prophecy – it seems out of place and almost ludicrous. We spend a lot of time in Ivy's head with her emotions, and her resentment-lament seems stuck on repeat. How much this affects her every moment is overpowering, too sharply in focus. This more than anything else dragged down the book for me. At first I appreciated the human interest approach, but the one-track repetitiveness ended up feeling like it was taking the spotlight from more interesting aspects of the story.While I found that the mystery was a bit thin, I really wanted to get involved in it, and all the bones were there for it to have fleshed out nicely. But Ivy didn't really get much of a chance to show much of her “normal people' skills, and the whole thrust of the puzzle felt over too soon.TL;DR The good and the bad balanced out, for me, but I was left with a washed out impression.
4956604375	This was a bit of a strange book. I wish I enjoyed this read more than I did. It sounded like it would be right up my alley. But it just missed out for me. Magic for Liars leads us on a walk through the shards of broken lives, and through the many necessary lies that people tell themselves just to cope. It shows extraordinary people living ordinary lives, then peels back the facade to show the damage behind each painfully-constructed mask. Having said that, I found it to be a slow and difficult read. It lacked the tension I usually find in murder mysteries and I had a tough time connecting to any of the characters. That in itself made it a struggle for me. I at least want to like somebody…and care what happens to them. Most of all, the "magic" didn't really sparkle for me. However, there were some reviews in which readers liked the story. I would be curious to learn what you thought of it.
3219346713	In Magic for Liars, private investigator Ivy Gamble is pulled from her usual beat of tailing cheating spouses into her first homicide investigation, located at a high school for magical children. One of the teachers happens to be her estranged sister, who inherited all of the family's powers and left Ivy with some emotional hangups around magic. Any similarities to, say, Harry Potter quickly disapparate. The school is nestled in contemporary northern California. No castles. Nobody carries magic wands or incants in Latin. Students wrestle not with dragons or hippogriffs, but with depression and abortion (with homicide now added to the mix). Author Sarah Gailey has created an intriguing new world of magical powers (the medical applications in particular are interesting and central), but we only learn just enough rules to support the plot's needs.I won't give much else away, but it's a mystery full of twists and turns and romantic interest. I'm still not convinced that Ivy would have been hired for this case to begin with, given her conflict of interest and lack of experience, but I'm willing to accept it as the conceit required to make this story about family and identity rather than magic or even homicide. The narrator's intense fixation on her own perceived appearance and outward signaling, and over-analysis of every word and gesture that comes her way, was a little too dialed-in for my tastes. Everyone's dials are tuned differently, however, so your mileage may vary. It feels weird complaining that we're too in the head of our protagonist, but her fixation often pulled me out of the story or distracted from information I was more interested in. Still, I was engaged in the story and relationships, and it was a quick, complex read that didn't try to tie everything up in a neat package at the end. Recommended!
2934224082	I found this to be a bit of a strange book. It's slow paced in the extreme, and overflowing with mundane description. I'm talking "a few sentences to describe a hand on a doorknob" stuff. And yet...The level of description did mean that it took me a while to fully immerse myself in the book, but that when I did, I really was immersed in the main character and her story. I've a love for broken things, and this is a story about a broken person trying to mend a broken relationship with her twin sister, against the backdrop of a magical murder mystery. Magic for Liars leads us on a walk through the shards of broken lives, and through the many necessary lies that people tell themselves just to cope. It shows extraordinary people living ordinary lives, then peels back the facade to show the damage behind each painfully-constructed mask.But that damage is ordinary too, it then suggests. No matter how painful.
2525442722	First, let me say that I had huge expectations for this. I really enjoyed Sarah Gailey's previous works (I've read both short stories in American hippo) and I've been following them on twitter for a while now and always enjoy what they have to say. I pre-ordered this for more than 20€ which makes it my most expensive book this year and I started reading it as soon as it arrived. So all this to say that I was EXCITED. Also of course the cover, the synopsis and even the title of this book all made me think I could really enjoy this story. Maybe my expectations were too high ? But I had already lowered them when I saw a few early reviews. Who knows. That's way too much exposition, let's get into the review : The charactersI grew to hate Ivy, the main character, so much. All she does is whine and wallow in self pity from page 1 and up until the very end. She is also The Worst Detective™ I had the displeasure to read about in my entire life. I shit you not, she sucks. She has terrible instincts and combines that with ZERO follow-through…. All the qualities you want in a good PI, am I right ?She finds NOTHING by herself or through her skills : it’s either given to her on a platter by another character or she finds stuff LITERALLY on the floor at her feet and OH LOOK IT’S A CLUE. How fucking convenient, right ?But as I said she has zero instinct or follow through : we see Ivy make a couple of interviews of students and teachers and most of the time she doesn’t even ask them their alibi (!!), she realizes by the end of the book that she doesn’t know anything about the victim (!!!!) and she hear some people say stuff that are obviously very important, like BIG FAT CLUES and she doesn’t follow through, she doesn’t ask what they mean or to develop. And of course when you get the reveal as a reader you’re like : WELL DUH. THAT’S WHAT [redacted] SAID 100 PAGES AGO.And then she goes on showing all her clues and talking about the case with everyone she knows at the school. YOU ARE INVESTIGATING THOSE PEOPLE…!! Come on, it’s not rocket science : don’t show all your clues to one of the person that could be the killer, you even said a couple of paragraphs before that you weren’t sure they were innocent….But Ivy is not even created as incompetent, she is out of her depth for sure but she is supposed to be good at her job so I don’t know if Sarah Gailey actually wanted to show her as an incompetent ass or if there was just a problem in the writing. I tend to think it’s the later but I can’t be sure…So that was a downer but there’s more. Ivy also talks about teenagers with so much condescension it was maddening and awkward to read. Some examples : If I had been in high school at the same time as Dylan I thought I would have adored him.[...]did it say something about the person I had become that I felt something between pity and disgust when I looked through his file ? Did it mean I had grown ? "okay so they sneak off and...what, have a bunch of teenage sex , right ?""You know it. And then, they keep having a bunch of teenage sex" "Yikes" This one after the girl's significant other just went through a very traumatic experience that she had to live herself a few months before : [redacted] will be fine. She might be a little panicky for a few days, but then they'll make out and she'll have a big personal revelation about true love and then she will be back in school next Monday with new bangs." [Redacted2] patted at her hair "I've seen it a thousand times. Always a crisis with these girls"There’s another line that I didn’t write down where Ivy finds a note written by a teen that says something like « not all that is gold glitters » and Ivy makes fun of it, thinking that, wow, that teen must have thought it was super deep…What an ass. I was so mad all the time for those poor teens, like is that really all you think of them ?And then there was the love story and that was CRINGE CITYI mean, their first dialogue goes like this :Love interest : « yeah even here the kids mostly draw dicks and topless women lol »Ivy : « Are you flirting with me ? »I mean…What ? How ? What ? Does that really scream FLIRTING to you ??? I’m so confused. And then later on, the love interest changes the color of some object for a brown color and Ivy immediately goes : wow they changed it for the color of my eyes !!LOL, WHAT ? I mean, I have brown eyes, if someone I have a crush on made something brown, even if it was the exact same color… I wouldn’t actually think that ? I mean it’s just brown ?? What the hell.And the whole love story is like that, I had second hand embarrassment the whole time. It was… A lot.And there’s the other characters. I kind of liked most of them, Sarah Gailey can make characters and flesh them out pretty well so they all had a distinct personality. I just don’t have much to say about them. Some sounded like they came directly from Mean Girls and it was a bit too much but they were still fun to read about.The plot It’s very easy to guess who is the killer, and there’s no surprise during the whole story, no twists, no turns, no big reveal… And I don’t always need that in a book but this is a murder mystery you know ? So I need at least a few reveals… Something that surprises me. Anything… please, I beg of you.What was however VERY annoying and a trope I hate was when a character is about to reveal something…And then they are interrupted because someone comes in the room, or there’s a sound or whatever and so they never say what they were about to say. And that happened THREE TIMES. I hate that, it’s such cheap suspense.And then what was I guess supposed to be revealed was either…Not surprising because WE KNEW or just a let down… There’s like a whole chapter when you know a character knows something and the tension builds and you really wonder like WOW WHAT IS THAT REVEAL. And then it falls flat because it’s just something very trivial, that we mostly knew already and…. ok. So, that’s it ?And the ending…It was bad you all. I’m not even talking about the reveal because as I said it’s just not surprising but it’s not *bad* but I really hated how it all wrapped up. Of course I can’t say anything about it as it’s super spoilery… But yeah. Also that very last scene made me roll my eyes but whatever ok, I was over it by this point. The writing It was sometimes a bit too much. I did enjoy the writing, and I think it was very different from what I was used to in the American hippo stories… But Sarah Gailey has the tendency to use metaphors, which is fine, but to make them just too long… Your metaphors do not need to be up to 2 lines long or we just loose track of what you're trying to say.Aside from that, I did enjoy the writing, I think it was pretty witty most of the time and it made for a fast read.The worldbuilding It felt like Sarah Gailey tried a little too hard to make it « what Hogwarts should have been », so with real teens with real teen problems, and normal technology and normal classes on top of the magical classes. Everything we all saw in the hundreds of « what was missing in Hogwarts » twitter threads and buzzfeed articles were there. But it was just a bit too on the nose. Especially as there’s a reference to Harry Potter on the first page (something about house elves and pumpkin juice) and how that’s a joke and…What ? Is Harry Potter an actual book that exists in this world but magic and magic school actually exists just differently ? I don’t get this ? There was no real world-building on that front and it was a bit awkward.The magic system though was interesting… because we never got actually introduced to it as Ivy has no magic so we only saw it from the sideline, like Ivy, and it was a pretty fun way to discover it.But when you think about it, there’s no world-building nor any magic system explained. One has a good reason to be that way though but that’s still all a bit easy.So to conclude… Harry Potter meets Mean Girls but make it awkwardly written and with the worst detective in the history of detectives (who just happens to be super lucky). I would not recommend… AND IT MAKES ME SAD.TW/CW : alcoholism, gruesome death, (view spoiler)[unsafe back-alley abortion (hide spoiler)]This review was also posted on my blog : https://therealmofbooks.wordpress.com...
3457100642	I honestly gobbled this story up. It is so readable and well-paced that the story feels smooth and just so easy to read. This is a fantasy mystery - a murder mystery set in a magic school. Our mc is a non-magic PI which I thought was a really interesting perspective for a story about magic school (we usually get a magic-users perspective). And while her perspective was interesting, it was a bit unfortunate that because Ivy didn't understand anything, we as readers didn't understand anything either. The reveals of the murder mystery weren't particularly shocking. And while I really appreciated the grey area involved with it - I don't know exactly HOW I feel about it.More than anything, this is just kind of a story that I'm going to forget as soon as I'm done with it. Despite that though, I really enjoyed the time spent with it and ate up this story very quickly. I definitely think it is worth the read!
2847036322	I think this book would save people a lot of disappointment if it came with a disclaimer. Something like "NOTE: The magical boarding school featured in this story is actually pretty ordinary and the characters spend more time talking about the theories of magic than actually doing magic." Though personally, I wasn't too bummed out by the lack of magic. In the first half I was still interested in the mystery and the MC, so I didn't mind that there weren't moving staircases and people lighting things on fire. And in the second half I was too caught up in other--bigger--issues to really care.Yeah. Safe to say this was a disappointment for me.It starts out very strong (I mean, a book that opens up with a scene straight out of Hannibal has my full attention) and it ends on a...strange and depressing note and I still don't know how I feel about it. But it's mostly the middle bits that I had a problem with. And a lot of those problems link back to the protagonist.Ivy Gamble was a trying narrator for me. Think Jessica Jones with all her psychological baggage minus the snark. And at first I was sympathetic. I can imagine how bitterly disappointing it would be to watch your sibling discover their magical abilities and get accepted to an elite magic academy while you're sitting on the sidelines reconciling with the fact that you're not magical and this incredible new world is off-limits to you. I understand how that can shape the rest of your life.But I don't need to be reminded of it every other page.Ivy goes out of her way to let the readers know that, hey, she's not magic. Did you know she's not magic? Bet you forgot she's not magic since the last time she told you she wasn't magic.*taps on mic* An important announcement: IVY GAMBLE IS NOT MAGIC.If you haven't noticed, I love--for the lack of a better adjective--tortured characters in stories. Characters carrying scars that they can't bear to look at but can't help but prod. But when all that mental turmoil overpowers the rest of the narrative--plot, side characters, setting--the result feels less like a story and more like a one-sided therapy session. And that was more or less my experience with Magic for Liars. The mystery would start to get interesting but then Ivy would start comparing Nonmagic Ivy (her current self) to magic Ivy (a theoretical version of herself) and musing about how the latter would do so much better in this and such situation, and that would pull me right out of the story.And this is more of a general complaint that I'm throwing out into the fictional ether, but I'm a little tired of private eye stories where the protagonist is an emotional mess and drinking constantly. I understand that that's part of the noir aesthetic--cigarettes and gin and staring out the window in contemplation of the fatality of life-- and, yes, there's often a romantic allure to it, but for once I would like to see a well-adjusted PI who chooses to abstain from heavy drinking because it interferes with their work. A happy (or happier) noir, you know?This book is not a happy noir, however, so if you're looking for a twisty mystery with magical school shenanigans, you're better off looking elsewhere. If you want a straightforward narrator-driven mystery with a lot of diversity and a LOT of heavy introspection, then it doesn't hurt to try! ~Review copy provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review
2983996285	I just didn't like this. I wasn't for me.I hated the MC. Yeah, yeah, it sucks she had no magic and she's estranged from her sister and had a hard life and yadda yadda yadda. After the first couple chapters, I just didn't give a damn. All she did was drink and whine, whine and drink. She just kept making stupid decision after stupid decision and whining and getting drunk.I hated the writing style. It's overly repetitive and flowery. Like I want to read flowery, repetitive whining.I hated the ending. Yes, it was terrible what happened but there was the possibility of good to come out of it and there did need to be some justice in the situation. She just took the easy way out again. All the best for her, I guess, cause then she can go on whining about shit. I mean, someone died, someone was traumatized, the guilty party admitted to doing all this shit to her, but she's just gonna ignore all that and nope her way out. Like a whiny coward. Zero character growth.
1941554763	between 3 and 4, because I loved the idea of this book and the setting, but also because it was not all that surprising to me. I wanted to not see things coming, to be surprised by twists, but I wasn't really. Though might not be the case for everyone!Edit: lowering to 2 because I'm still a bit uneasy with the way the book seems to scorn (not sure that's the right word?) at teenagers and lots of other annoying thing I keep thinking about
3101169726	The premise here is: What if your sibling went to magic school and you're a muggle? And what if you're a private detective hired to solve a murder at a magic school? Both of these are intriguing separately. Together, I could not resist this book. Unfortunately, I did not like it nearly as much as I wanted to. Parts of it were stellar, and parts of it absolutely did not work for me.Our narrator is Ivy Gamble, a struggling private detective whose twin sister was magical and went away to magical boarding school. Her sister Tabitha is a teacher at the magical high school she used to go to. The two girls are now estranged. Ivy doesn't normally (or ever) work murder cases, but due to her connection with Tabitha, the principal hires her to look into the death of one of the teachers, whose body was found bisected in the library. The magical authorities have deemed it an accident, but the principal suspects foul play, so Ivy comes to live on campus for a bit while she investigates.Basically, half of that above premise worked for me, and half (mostly) did not. The part that worked almost all the way for me was everything to do with the murder and the investigation, as well as the school (the suspects, teachers, the victim). I thought Gailey did a great job really playing with the ideas she was working with and it was very satisfying and entertaining. Ivy is also a pretty good investigator (although, not in her or the author's favor that I was able to guess two main twists before the main character did, in one case long before, and I am terrible at figuring mysteries out, so this is a very bad sign). The worldbuilding for the magic in a contemporary setting was unique enough to feel fresh. It was almost like realistic fiction, if magic were involved. Just like, magic is ho-hum every day stuff. That kind of vibe.The part that did not work for me was Ivy's emotional arc. Some of the stuff with her and Tabitha bonding and trying to overcome their estrangement had me feeling feelings. But overall, Ivy is just the type of person who does nothing but feel sorry for herself, mixed up with some low-self esteem and low-key self-hatred. This was not fun to read about! I did not like Ivy! Except for when she was being good at her job. I like when people are good at their jobs. And it's not like I have an objection to reading about characters who are dissatisfied with their lives, who are sad, unhappy, or bitter. I don't mind at all when it's done well! There was just something about Ivy and her wah wah wah attitude that really rubbed me the wrong way. She is also an asshole! A self-sabotaging one! She absolutely 100% deserved what happened to her in a pivotal scene involving another teacher.I think that I would still recommend people check this out for the murder investigation alone, and you might click with Ivy more than I did. (Am now feeling slightly more trepidation about picking up any more of this author's books.)[3.5 stars]
2811548616	Every! Single! """Mystery!""" Was So! Fucking! Obvious! JFC!And I'm not even someone who reads mysteries all the time.This would have been so much better (ok maybe still not great, but like, not so annoying and dull) if it had been rewritten without the insufferable, oblivious MC, and instead been from the POV of her sister or one of the students of the school.
2822038281	A muggle private eye is asked to find out who killed a teacher at the school for mages where her magic twin sister is a teacher. So, obviously it’s a great book. 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥
2755921249	A thrilling, thoughtful, funny, cutting, and heartbreaking mystery. Like Harry Potter meets Mean Girls by way of Broadchurch.
4107634404	Absolutely loved this. I loved the insecurities and the complexities of the main character’s psyche and really felt for her on a number of levels.
2904788993	Review originally published at FantasyLiterature.comhttp://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...I recently enjoyed Sarah Gailey’s short story “STET,” and decided I needed to check out more of Gailey’s work. When I saw their latest novel, Magic for Liars (2019), gleaming bright red at me from the library shelf, it seemed like the perfect opportunity. Magic school meets detective thriller? Right up my alley, as I like both of those things. It was like asking me if I wanted vanilla and chocolate ice cream.Ivy and Tabitha Gamble are twins, but Tabitha has magic and Ivy doesn’t. When the two were teens, Tabitha got to go away to magic school, while Ivy stayed home and dealt with regular high school and her mother’s terminal cancer. Now in their thirties, the sisters are increasingly estranged. Ivy is an alcoholic PI, and Tabitha is a teacher at a different magic school, Osthorne Academy. Then, the headmaster of Osthorne shows up in Ivy’s office. A teacher died under mysterious circumstances, and the headmaster wants Ivy to investigate. Though it will mean having to see her sister again, Ivy can’t resist the chance to solve a murder instead of the usual run of adultery and insurance fraud cases.Ivy is offered lodging on the Osthorne campus, and begins to interview the students and faculty. Their social dramas, secret love affairs, dangerous experimental spells, and Chosen One prophecies might all be pieces of the puzzle Ivy is trying to solve.Gailey puts a fresh spin on the “magic school” trope by showing it from an outsider’s point of view. Ivy’s feelings of inadequacy are palpable as her time at Osthorne continually reminds her of the life she could have lived if she’d had magic like Tabitha. When the students use magic for dumb adolescent mischief, it’s easy to understand why their flippancy about their gifts makes her angry.Magic for Liars’ mystery plot works less well. It is way too obvious, way too early, both whodunit and why. Ivy is given several major clues, and overlooks them all. Gailey throws in a couple of red herrings that made me hope for a twist, but nope, the solution was pretty much what I’d guessed. The effect of this is that Ivy doesn’t come off as a very good detective. Then, the ending is anticlimactic on one front and left ambiguous on another.Magic for Liars is an interesting look at magic-school stories from a different perspective, and a less successful murder mystery. The writing itself is well done, and Gailey seems to explore a wide range of unique ideas in their fiction, and I would definitely be willing to try out more of their work in the future.
2633084657	4.5 if petunia dursley had become a private investigator instead of marrying vernon and lily evans was a lesbian, this would be a book about them.but seeing as this is not the fanfiction of my dreams, it's really about ivy, a PI who's hired to investigate a murder in the magic school her estranged twin sister is a professor at. say anymore about it and you risk spoiling the book, because that's pretty much what you get. and it was a delight!i love sarah gailey's writing and it was absolutely perfect here. the mystery was extremely predictable - you can guess it before one-fifth of the book has gone through - but i was very engaged by the characters she created and just the way that she told this story. she Capitalizes a lot of words, and delivers striking sentences in an almost offhanded way, and the writing here made me feel... warm inside? in a way. i'm aware i'm not being overly specific, but it's because i really don't know how to describe it better. sometimes you read words that seem to have been written Just For You (the capitalization! learning from the best!) and saying that has to be enough.the atmosphere is also nailed just right; i have to say, pretty much none of the books i read since i graduated high school - FIVE YEARS! - have made me feel the atmosphere of being a student, seventeen, eighteen, with all of those annoying hormones hanging in the air and a sense of expectance, of something still to come, that's very typical of adolescence and a lot harder to come by the older you get.i loved it.half a star taken off for the predictability, still recommend it, still going to be thinking about how fuzzy i felt after finishing this for a long time.
2849662601	That ending was so unsatisfactory. 😒 Everything was going so well until the ending. I want a refund!
2874720325	In which Aunt Petunia goes to Hogwarts as Jessica Jones. Yup. You read that right.Magic for Liars is by far the best book that I’ve read this year without any interruptions. It’s thrilling and oddly entertaining; it also reminded me so much of Jessica Jones’ (aka my favorite badass Marvel character) sleuthing only this time, in a magical setting that screamed major Hogwarts vibes. If that isn’t enough explanation for you to go and read this then let me break it all down why Magic for Liars is THE BOMB.HUMOROUS WRITING STYLE MATCHED WITH FAST PACING.These two elements combined hooked me in the core that I just can’t sleep if I did not finish reading it uninterrupted. Gailey’s writing style has such a unique flavor and she brandishes her metaphors in a not-so-flowery way yet it still manages to bloom in odd lovable ways. Take these quotes for example: The drought-impossible velvety green lawn that surrounded the school looked like frosting waiting to have a finger run through it.…mist was draped across the school grounds like a headache clinging to the temples of a mildly concussed and half-hungover private investigator And my favorite of all: The drive through the Sunol hills was as beautiful as the novocaine that comes before the drill. Take note that the ones I quoted here are not even important shifts in the story but simply just a description. Maybe I’m just so fcking easy to please right but I digress; Gailey’s writing brings a fresh whiff of magic that I have never seen in other books before and I’m very much happy to gobble it all up in one sitting.Other than her writing style, Magic for Liars easily propels us to the nitty-gritty of the plot without compromising the characters’ development and relationship dynamics. It draws you in instantly and never wavers with its fast yet consistent pacing. It just develops the thrill organically until it ripens right on time without any haphazard shortcuts. It’s a wonderful experience and basically the best aspects you’d want in a mystery novel.BLENDS MAGICAL REALISM IN THE STORY WITHOUT EVER STEERING THE MEAT OF THE PLOT TO IT.This book is bound to at least explain the world building because of that glaringly obvious title and, I was pleasantly surprised how it only became a secondary factor here than potentially stealing the plot’s thunder. We only get to delve in the technical aspect in such an easy yet effective way in small to medium increments and that’s one thing I really love here. Here’s one quote that adeptly depicts the school’s magic system in terms of the students’ perspective: So, yes, there was magic. But even the magic was distinctly teenager magic. There was something in the flavor of it that spoke to a desperate lostness, a struggle to self define; an occassional lunge toward the juvenile that said, We still get to be kids, right? EXECUTES DIALOGUES AND MONOLOGUES IN A NEAT FLOURISH THAT LEAVES YOU WANTING FOR MORE INTERACTION.This was easily the best thing here! Since it’s obviously a murder mystery, our MC, Ivy Gamble has to eventually interview witnesses or potential suspects. What I find interesting about it though, was how we get to probe with Ivy as she picks on the interviewee’s mannerisms, motivations, and manipulations. It’s like being in Sherlock’s head when confronted with danger and he analyzes every element present. It’s very classic detective stuff and I even loved Ivy’s character more because of how she carefully sets up her traps and reads people.A SOCIAL COMMENTARY ON THE FRAGILITY OF SISTERHOOD, ONES’ SENSE OF IDENTITY AND, ABORTION. An ache gripped my chest, sudden and overwhelming. That’s my sister. Even after everything–even with everything that was still between us, that would probably always be between us–she was my sister. I was born reaching for her. I honestly cried in the parts where Ivy and Tabitha’s relationship was examined here because it reminded me sometimes of the distance between me and my sister. (We are definitely closer than these two though!) It reflected a lot of conflicts that sisters usually experience i.e. perpetual comparison and competition. This book also shows us how intoxicating it is to live double lives and cling to the desperation of it coming true. This hit close to home and I find myself teary-eyed looking at my sister while reading this. Good thing she’s fast asleep so I don’t get any weird faces from her!The aspect of abortion is actually a major spoiler here but I really have to include it because of its importance and for trigger warnings. This was actually the first book I’ve read that has this representation and it was in some way divulges on how people view abortion as an immoral act without ever thinking on the repercussions it has on the girl. I liked that we get to see women supporting women in this book when it comes to this sensitive matter because it NEEDS TO BE SAID. Women need to have a choice, and maybe taking a baby’s life would be strongly questionable to some, but it’s a whole different picture when you’re the one who is actually carrying the baby in such a young age. I’m kinda touchy here because I know a friend who has been in this place and it was such an eye-opener for me. I hope you open your eyes too when you read this.RUEFULLY ENTERTAINING AND RIPE FOR THE TAKING.I read this in one sitting and I was exhilarated when I finished it! The clincher of this murder mystery will manipulate you to no end because at one point I swear I was ready to be disappointed with its predictability. Oh was I so wrong. This is again the best books that I’ve read this year and I’ll definitely be watching out for more of Sarah Gailey’s future books! Can you believe that this is actually her debut?
2811187205	3.5 out of 5 starsI received this copy from the publisher via Netgalley in an exchange for an honest review.Ivy Gamble is a small time private investigator who deals with mostly, disability fraud and spouse cheating cases. Today, however, the local school of magic has approached her to investigate the death of a teacher, first ruled an accident. The principle of the school suspects that it was actually murder, and she can’t sleep until she gets a second opinion.Ivy need the money, and the notoriety. The problem is, she’ll have to confront her estranged sister. The sister she’s been jealous of for a lifetime, for getting to be magic while Ivy was just ordinary. It’s not just her sister she’ll have to contend with though, it’s a whole league of people she doesn’t know how to interact with. People born to magic, who use it for such trivial reasons. She’ll have to manage her anger, on top of solving her first murder case.Sarah Gailey’s strength is definitely in characters and their development. Ivy’s internal struggles are deeply relateable. Her interactions with people she’s uncomfortable with, and her attempts to hide her own magic inability, make for a fascinating look into the human psyche. The plot was fairly straightforward for a murder mystery. Gailey dabbles with a couple of red herrings but in all honestly, I had the mystery figured out far before our awkward PI did. I’m left wondering, does Rahul give her a chance to explain? We’ll never know though as this is a stand alone novel. Some mysteries never get solved.
2842287226	Magic for Liars is a weird book. It's as if Harry Potter was a little less magical, a little more down to earth. It's a school where students can (and do) use their fabulous magic powers to write obscene graffiti and make penis shaped clouds. Also, in the book adults around the school actually care (even a bit) about investigating what could have caused a death on a magical campus.Sarah Gailey does a fantastic job of capturing the essence of being an adult observing teenagers in their natural habitat. Her depictions of student life were wholly on the nose, and completely realistic of what magical students would do in a less Disneyesque environment. The prose was solid. The plotting was decent if a bit predictable. Ivy's life is a mess and she reminds me a lot of Jessica Jones. Her complicated relationships with her family and the people around her were very enjoyable to read about. There were, however, some aspects of Ivy's characterization that bugged me a bit, but nothing that I couldn't overlook to enjoy such a unique book.
2843299251	I have read this author's American Hippo series as well as her Fisher of Bones serial, but it looks like this is her full-length novel debut. I thought it was a very engaging story and ended up being so interested in the mystery aspect of it that I read it in only two days. Some parts I thought were a bit obvious but I did have the killer pinned down to two people and one of them was the correct choice. I did not get the motive anywhere near right, but thinking back through the text there were definite clues. The main character might turn some people off because she is a complete mess of a person, but I absolutely live for messy protagonists [especially women] so I found her very relatable for the most part. I also liked the magic world-building, which was definitely more science-based than I've seen in many other books and I always appreciate the blending of science and magic. Can't wait to read more full length works from this author!
3070055520	Imagine if Aunt Petunia didn't marry Vernon, but became a badass private detective. And Lilly didn't deal with all the Voldemort stuff, but went on and had a career as a professor at a posh magic private high school. And one day, horrible murder happened at said school... I loved how the book started, I was hooked from the first few lines. Magical murder mystery? Yes, please. It was even better because the main heroine was an outsider and non-magical. And I really liked the idea that magical high school is still a high school, with all usual high school dealings, but with magical twists. Magical graffiti on the walls sounds much cooler. Problems came with how the book ended and plot twists were untangled. It felt hurried, weird and a bit underwhelming. The feelings of excitement for the book I had at the beginning were gone. So, that was a bummer.
3425817353	Actual rating 3.5.RTC
2643498009	This was like Veronica Mars meets Harry Potter and I'm into it.
2985145399	As always this review can also be found on my blog The Tattooed Book Geek: https://thetattooedbookgeek.wordpress...Ivy Gamble has been a Private Investigator (PI) for fourteen years. She is just about getting by investigating adulterers, cheating partners, insurance scams, petty crime and fraud cases. All of the bread and butter cases that deal with the seedy underbelly of society and that make up the bulk of the work of a PI when she is hired to solve a grisly death at The Osthorne Academy of Young Mages.The headteacher of the school doesn’t believe the initial report and the finding of the cause of death as being ‘accidental death‘. And so, Ivy is hired to further investigate and uncover the truth.Ivy is non-magic and lacks any magical ability. But, her twin sister Tabitha has magic and teaches at the school. Ivy and her sister haven’t spoken in years since their paths diverged and their lives went down different roads.When they were younger Tabitha was sent to a prestigious magic school miles away from home and Ivy just went to the regular local high school. This left Ivy at home to deal with family events (illness) that Tabitha didn’t have to deal with, having a barrier between herself of miles and what was going on at home leading to estrangement and deep-seated resentment between the twins.Magic for Liars is written in the first-person and narrated by Ivy Gamble. Ivy is a self-confessed liar and she tells us that pearl of wisdom on the very first page. Ivy will tell you that it is fine and that she doesn’t care that she is non-magic throughout the course of the book. After all, when we lie, especially when we lie to ourselves we repeat the lie over and over again. Hoping that in repetition and if we say it enough times then it will give the lie validity and that, somewhere along the way we might actually start believing it as the truth.Ivy is a fish out of water in a world that she doesn’t understand and an outsider to the world of magic. But, being at the school gives her a chance to belong, to pretend and to get a glimpse into what a magical Ivy could have been like. It is travelling to the realm of ‘what if’ for Ivy. What if fate had dealt her a different hand and she was born with a magical ability instead of Tabitha.The magic in the book is like science with both theoretical and practical being taught to the students at the school. For the most part, there isn’t the greatest depth (I will say, however, that the way it is used for healing and medical needs is fascinating and does have a depth to it) to the magic and it is very grounded. There are no outlandish instances of magic being used and it is relegated to the background with the characters taking front and centre stage. Magic is mainly used to aid teaching and to make things easier for the students like taking notes in class, etc. And, for general school shenanigans like floating penis clouds, glamours to hide acne and hair roots and indelible graffiti. Only, instead of pen or spray paint, the graffiti is magical and impossible to remove.As a setting, The Osthorne Academy of Young Mages is very much an ordinary school. Magic classes are taught along with the normal school curriculum. The school is full of the standard student types, the cliques, the gangs, the popular kids and the weirdos. The school itself is bricks, mortar, classrooms with gum under the desks and corridors filled with lockers. If you read magic school and immediately think of that one beginning with ‘H’ then you will be disappointed with the setting. I wasn’t, I thought it was really cool that the school was exactly the same as any other high school out there and that it is just a school that happens to teach magic and have magically gifted students.Ivy drinks too much, is rather down on herself with a ‘woe is me’ attitude and has a melancholy outlook on herself and on life. She is broken, damaged, flawed and fallible. She doesn’t always make the best choices or, the right choices either for that matter. But, she is likeable, she wants to prove to herself that she can solve the murder (because it is a big case and a proper case) and going to the school is a journey of self-discovery for her. There is also a depth to her and all that she is dealing with both in the present and that she is still coming to terms with from her past.There’s a gulf between the sisters, Ivy, who lacks any magical ability and who has always been an outsider and her sister, Tabitha who has magic and has always been popular. Born to the same parents with the advent of Tabitha’s ability they are now part of different worlds. I really liked the passages where the two sisters tried to get to know each other and overcome the barriers and the obstacles that they have put in place by being estranged from each other. It is like there are oceans between them and the spectres of bygone years, of the departed haunt them both as they try to put the pieces back together and fix what is broken. There was something poignant and rather touching about the sisters trying to reconnect, to re-establish a relationship on the salted earth of their past.There’s a diversity to the supporting cast of characters in Magic for Liars. Sometimes, diversity can feel forced like it has been added simply because the author felt it was expected of them. That’s not the case with Magic for Liars and the diversity of the characters feels natural and organic like it should be in today’s society.As Ivy delves deeper into the death interviewing staff members, students and sleuthing around there are many within the school who seem to have reasons why they might be the killer. Connections between characters, misdirection and twists and turns abound as Ivy finds that the school is rife with secrets.Magic for Liars is an entertaining mix of murder, mystery, magic, school life and fractured family bonds with a surprisingly emotional undercurrent to the story. I enjoyed it far more than I expected too and I found it to be a damn good and highly readable magical thriller.
2951496631	3.5/5This wasn't quite what I was expecting from this. It first seems like a murder mystery set in a contemporary magical boarding school but then it pulls in a magic-less functioning alcoholic detective and then a weird abortion plot. The characters were fine and the mystery did keep me guessing for the whole book BUT I don't know about the ending. The ending for the detective seems abruptly ended and the ending for the detective's sister seemed very idealistic and to not really fit the rest of the book. It was just quite weird but also refreshing for that reason. I honestly don't know if I necessarily liked it or disliked it or would recommend it. Rep: one of the high school students is in a F/F romance as well as two female teachers are in a F/F romance
5840580719	The cover and the title suggested that Magic for Liars would be a fun read perfect for the season. I've never read Sarah Gailey's books before this but I'm familiar with her works. I decided to give this a shot as fall needs a little magic.On the contrary, Magic for Liars wasn't what I expected. It was sombre and gloomy, it didn't have the lightness and funkiness that I was looking for. The concept was ideal, an investigation in a magic school should have great potential but Sarah Gailey invested too much in the relationship between Ivy and Tabby.This is one of the books that the cover and title misled the readers.
2737704867	I have mixed feelings about this one. I decided to give it a shot despite not being into murder mysteries because it sounded super interesting (a non magical private investigator is asked to solve the murder of a teacher at the magical academy where her estranged sister works), and there are a lot of things I really liked about it.The setup is great, obviously, and the writing is top notch. It's snappy and well-crafted, really giving a nice feel to this P.I. story without ever going too ham on it. For example: Across the bay, San Francisco bled money like an unzipped artery. Those who had been privileged enough to have their buckets out to catch the spray drove back over the water to Oakland-- from The City to The Town. They bumped aside people who had been living in these neighborhoods for generations, and they tore down storefronts, and they built brunch pubs with wood reclaimed from the houses they were remodeling. The character development for the main character, Ivy, is also so clear and fleshed out that it gave me all sorts of feelings.The problem? Those feelings were not always good in the later stages of the book. She starts out so sympathetic! I wanted good things for this stunted woman who was having to face this world that she had never been, and would never be, a part of. Her defensive reactions to this pain, to the mages' total and utter indifference toward her, are just so spot-on. But at a certain point she starts letting her desperate desire to belong drive her into making some really awful decisions. Just really unwise, y'all. She goes from being believably sad sack but still smart, to being honestly kind of pathetic.The closest real-world example I can come up with is like when that popular person who bullied you in high school tries to friend you years later on Facebook, but instead of gleefully (or indifferently) denying the request, Ivy is that person who's flattered and validated and starts spinning fairytales about how they're going to be best friends. And we're talking about a woman in her mid thirties here. I also had some issues with the mystery being too simple, with several of the pivotal clues just being stumbled upon. I admittedly don't know the genre well, but this seems... not ideal. The romance also felt very out of place (although the love interest was a total peach), and there were ideas I wanted to see explored that were just dropped (consent!!).I had to think about the main thing that bugged me overall and I think it's this: the book was determined to stay lighthearted even though there are some big, deep ideas that I personally feel should have been treated with more gravitas. There are some pretty dark implications to some of the magic that the author shies away from exploring, and I feel that the actions of the characters are treated too lightly. I ended the book feeling like, "No, this person can't just go on with their life!" "No, that person can't just have that relationship back after what they did!" There are characters that are just going to call it a day and be able to sleep at night, and I hate it.I will say that overall I do think it's a worthwhile read, though, and I think a lot of people are really going to really like it. It's got a great premise, great writing, a very complete characterization of Ivy, and an overall fan-fucking-tastic first half. It's just that I also wanted to brain Ivy on the nearest hard surface at times, the mystery lacked complexity, and the conclusion didn't quite sit well with me.
2703852316	The book opens with a graphic murder scene where Sylvia, a professor at Osthorne Academy whose body lies in two separate pieces on a blood stained carpet.Ivy Gamble is a private investigator that usually specializes in typical cases like cheating spouses and disability fraud. Everything changes when Ivy is called to investigate the death of a professor at the local magic school. The death was ruled as an accident, but the headmistress (who prefers to be called headmaster) is convinced that foul play is at hand and seeks out Ivy for a second consult.While Ivy is a bit hesitant about pursuing the case, the money and the potential exposure is too good to pass up even if her estranged sister Tabitha is one of the professors on staff as well. Tabitha may have been off studying magic instead of trying to save their mother who was dying of cancer, but Ivy would have to look past her anger and resentment in order to crack this case…her first murder case.The first half of this book had me hooked. I was drawn to the idea of solving a murder mystery at a magical academy, especially when this book was compared to The Magicians, which is one of my all-time favorites. While I enjoyed watching Ivy immerse herself into the investigation and build rapport with the other characters in the book, I definitely found her character to be a bit trying at times since she tends to adopt the “woe is me” mentality. However, watching the animosity and mistrust between Ivy and Tabitha slowly start to peel away was refreshing, since I love siblings trying to come together especially after tragic circumstances.One thing that I wish this book focused more on was the magic. The magic tends to be more in the background of the story rather than at the forefront. I would say that the murder mystery is definitely the main focus of the story, but the author the opportunity to really build the magic element more. There’s definitely some in this book, but I wanted more.As Ivy delves further into the investigation, the twists and turns in the case definitely kept me interested. But…what made this book 3.5 stars instead of higher was the ending. I just felt that this story had a lot of potential and was the tension had the perfect build, but the ending felt rushed and was a bit of a let down for me.Thank you Bookish First and Tor Books for the ARC. This did not influence my review. All opinions are my own.
3102678202	What an absolutely scintillating story from Sarah Gailey! Xe Sands was the perfect narrator for this book, different and understated, allowing the story to unfold seamlessly. It’s no wonder at all why this is on the Goodreads 2019 nominations for Best Books of 2019 in the Fantasy category. Murder. Mystery. Magic. Marvelous!⚖️ Plot: This was so cleverly done, giving us glimpses into the truth and then misdirecting us almost immediately. The pace was just right allowing us to follow comfortably. And for the type of writing Gailey used, the ending was spot on!🗺 World: As this was a magic system in our own world, there wasn’t much need to elaborate on it. But if the book were a little longer, she could‘ve gone into a little more detail on the surroundings, architecture, and how these schools of magic came to be in our society. 💑 Characters: It’s been a while since I’ve like a female character as much as I do Ivy Gamble. She’s real, she’s smart and so easy to relate to. I was very happy to see a breath of diversity and genuine air with Rahul. I really hope to see them and more books by Gailey in the future.
2630019999	I loved this book. I love the premise, I love the mystery, I love the twist at the end, this book is great. Good for mystery lovers, good for fantasy lovers, good for people who enjoy a story you just can't put down. Magic for Liars has everything; murder, romance, teen drama, sisterly bonding, trauma healing, everything. Can't recommend this enough.
2853729739	Ivy is the sister without any magic, unlike her magical twin, Tabitha, who went to a magic school for mages and later became a teacher of theoretical magic. When their mother suffered and died from cancer, Ivy was left behind with the not-so-glorious PI job, a still-in-denial drinking problem, and an eternal bitterness that she was not special enough to do magic like her sister.One day and out of the blue, the Headmaster of Tabitha’s school approached Ivy with a case of a gruesome death of a well-liked teacher. The death was deemed to be a suicide by the authorities, but the headmaster was convinced it was a murder. Ivy accepted the job, and was given the chance to reconnect with her estranged sister, entrusted with a task that could bring her to the next level of the detective career she always hoped for, and thrown into a world in which she knew almost nothing about where she had to solve the mystery doing what she does best.At The Osthorne Academy for Young Mages, Ivy meets interesting characters like the odd boy who believes he is the most powerful mage that will fulfill the prophesy of forever changing the world, the pretty queen bee who bullies everyone and even threaten the teachers, and the fun and down to earth practical magic teacher in which Ivy develops an instant connection with.Two emotional relationships dominate the story: that between Ivy and her sister, and Ivy and the practical magic teacher. At the same time, Ivy uncovers the dynamics of the students, the secrets they carry, and the scandals they involve in just as in any other non-magical high school.One discovery led to another. The ending was surprising in that it was not some plot of great machination, but the emotional burden it unravelled is nonetheless astounding. In short: (view spoiler)[Tabitha was the dead teacher’s lover, who developed cancer. After losing their mother to cancer, Tabitha became obsessive with finding a cure, which involved highly complicated and dangerous magic. Not wanting to lose her lover the same way as she lost her mother, Tabitha endeavoured to perform a complicated magical surgery. She almost succeed, until the last moment when she succumbed to exhaustion for a brief moment, and her lover died a most gruesome death. (hide spoiler)] The ending was particularly sad, in the way that it points to the way people try, and fail, despite what happened in the past and the intentions of people desperately wanting things to turn out differently this time around.
3366164882	05/08/2020 Big spoilers are marked, but proceed in this review with caution if you want to stay free of spoilersTW: Death of a parent (view spoiler)[ and loved one (hide spoiler)] from cancer, bad family relationships, murder, graphic descriptions of mutilated bodies and body horror, (view spoiler)[descriptions of (gory) magical abortion (hide spoiler)] I was iffy going into this because the rating of this book is very low. After reading through some reviews, I understand why people didn't like it. However: most of the reasons people disliked this, were the reasons that I really enjoyed it! 1) Ivy. Ivy wasn't very likeable, yet she feels like a real person. Like, yes, she lies, and yes she tries to be someone she is not for a while. But don't tell me you have never wanted to be someone else for a while. Her emotions regarding her family feel valid and real. So yes. I liked Ivy. 2) the ending (view spoiler)[the ending was very open. I'm one of those people that really enjoys weird open endings. The reveal of the "murder" was such a sad one, and I found it very fitting (minus the fact that her sister was so calm about it and hid it from everyone) I understand that it can feel like a cop-out that the death was an accident that happened out of love, but I thought it was a fitting twist. (hide spoiler)]3) the scientific approach of magic. I loved that! like yes, please explain to me why some things are scientifically possible and why other ones aren't! I understand that this book isn't for everyone, and I also understand that the mystery of the death isn't really the main part of the book. But I really liked it, and I do recommend it!
1941613767	This review is going to come down to one sentence: you need to go read Magic for Liars right now!Ivy Gamble is perfectly ordinary. She’s a PI with a drinking problem, an empty apartment, no social life, and not even the slightest trace of magic. In that, she’s completely different from her estranged sister Tabitha who spent their childhood at a magical boarding school at which she now teaches. Ivy hasn’t talked to Tabitha in years, and she both resents Tabitha’s magical gifts and longs for a closer relationship.Then there’s a murder at Tabitha’s school, and the headmistress brings in Ivy to investigate. Ivy’s thrown headfirst into the world of a magical school, a place where she’s a complete outsider. But maybe, it’ll be a chance for Ivy to reconnect with Tabitha… as long as Tabitha isn’t a suspect.It’s almost impossible for me not to read Magic for Liars in conversation with Harry Potter (although I think it’s drawing off of the larger picture of magical school stories). For one, it really focuses on some of the realities of teenagers, as seen from an adult perspective. The school’s got all the usual high school type stuff going on, but with the addition of magic, meaning that you’ve got students putting cursed graffiti on each other’s lockers. Secondly, Magic for Liars really focuses in on the outside perspective of what it’d be like to know that magic is real but you don’t have it. I went to the book launch for Magic for Liars, and Sarah Gailey said that these magical school stories are usually about the wish fulfillment of suddenly having these cool powers and being whisked away to a magical school. But with Magic for Liars, they were interested in exploring the resentment and loss that sits with someone who doesn’t get that. And wow, did that come across with Ivy.Ivy is a mess. Like, just a huge mess. And yet her decisions and longings are completely understandable. Part of the barrier between her and Tabitha is their mother’s death of cancer. Ivy’s angry that Tabitha didn’t save their mother, and she feels like by going to boarding school Tabitha skipped out on most of the hardship Ivy experienced. The relationship between Ivy and Tabitha is at the core of the novel. Like Ivy, I found myself hoping for a reconciliation between the two.Plotwise, I could predict some of the major beats of Magic for Liars but it still had plenty of surprises in store for me. In addition to being an adult take on the magical school story, it’s also a well-wrought murder mystery. I’ve seen it comped to Tana French, and that’s totally fitting — it’s like urban fantasy meets The Secret Place.I don’t think Sarah Gailey is ever going to write a sequel to Magic for Liars — this has the feel of a stand-alone. But that’s okay! While I loved this book, it feels like a complete story in and of itself. And Sarah Gailey’s got plenty of new, exciting projects to keep me reading!I received an ARC with the expectation of a free and honest review.Review originally posted on my blog The Illustrated Page.
5167749078	Sarah Gailey tells stories so uniquely and I loved this
6154372466	::Checks read a fantasy novel off the list for the year:: Honestly I’ll read any genre that Sarah Gailey decides to embrace.
2874671023	Thank you to the publisher for providing me with an early copy, for free, for honest review.I'm not really sure how I feel about this. I didn't love it as much as I thought I would. I liked it, but it didn't blow me away. The writing was good, it definitely kept me reading. I was just expecting something different because of how much I had hyped it up in my head.Ivy Gamble kind of reminded me of a mash-up of Aunt Petunia and Jessica Jones. Aunt Petunia, because she's a little bitter about being the normal, non-magical sister. Jessica Jones for the PI profession and heavy drinking. Ivy Gamble does not possess super strength or a Vernon Dursley. So it's a mash-up of specific parts of those two characters, not the whole bag. Ivy is a very somber character, who is kind of heavy on the self-pity. She's not magic and she's got some jealously about that, jealousy that she really can't get over. She's a bit of a loner too. She just doesn't scream happy or contented person.Throughout the book, Ivy kind of confused me. She kept acting, trying to be somebody else, while doing the job at this magical school. She wasn't secure in just being herself. And the lies she told ended up coming back to bite her. I just don't really understand why she had to lie about herself.There were also some weird sections in the story where it gave the impression that this was a past event that she was recounting from the future. It only happened a couple of times, but it was a little jarring.The murder mystery aspect didn't feel the most pressing at times. It didn't have the punch that I was expecting. The victim was almost just a body, and nothing else. And it wasn't hard at all to figure out who-done-it.The ending of this book is lacking and not very satisfying. The reveal of the murderer didn't shock me. The reason why they did it was like trying to give them a pass. There were no consequences. To me, it was not a conclusion to the story at all. Even the very end of the book wasn't an end. It was unsatisfying.As far as the magic school setting went, it was very much understated magic. There were some cool bits, but not many. It was pretty much just a regular high school with just little hints here and there of magic. It was more of a gritty tale than a magical one.I enjoyed Magic For Liars, but I didn't love it. I was expecting something more from it. I enjoyed the premise of it. I enjoyed the writing. It was an easy story to get through. I'd definitely read more from Sarah Gailey. I just wanted an ending that actually felt like an ending. I need closure in my stories. I'm glad I got to read it.BOOKCITEMENT LEVEL 3.7/5Kind of a Mixed Bag
4027934229	Nobody saw me choose a path. Nobody saw me choose. But I chose. This was oddly disappointing, which is weird to say, since I never read the blurb and I didn't know what to expect going into it. I just wanted to finally read a Sarah Gailey. And it was a good book, to be sure; a serviceable mystery with interesting characters and a really unique world and very well-realised characters. But still, the main feeling I have right now is just... okay.Broad strokes: Ivy's twin sister Tabitha is magic; she is not. Years into adulthood, after the sisters haven't been speaking/on close terms for a long time, Ivy, a private investigator, gets hired to solve a murder that occurred at the magic school where Tabitha works. The first thing that didn't really work for me is kinda... Ivy herself? I liked the jaded attitude, her sharpness, just the fact of her being a private eye. But a big part of her character is her unresolved anger and jealousy at her sister for having magic; trying to convince herself that she doesn't care, that she doesn't want magic either, but knowing that she really does. I think that that storyline might have been a little more compelling with younger characters? I'm not saying that adults can't/shouldn't hold grudges like that, but being as mature as she is, and with everything we learn about her, an the fact that it's in the middle of a murder investigation, Ivy's jealousy seemed really trivial and I got pretty impatient with it. That might be unfair of me.The murder mystery aspect was fine. I think I'm less satisfied with the reveal of who it is, and more satisfied that it WASN'T a certain person, because that would have just annoyed me. The world-building around the magic system was neat; not always coherent and well-explained, but neat. Two things I just really couldn't wrap my head around was the fact that Ivy managed to fool a bunch of magic users that she DID have magic (there's really no way to detect/know that kind of thing?) and more importantly... why the hell she wanted to fool them in the first place. The book gives us a reason why, sure, and it fits with her characters and her wanting to be this different kind of person, but it was just such a weird, dumb thing to do in the middle of a murder investigation, and seemed at odds with so many other things we learned about Ivy. The conflict that that manufactured, especially with hot boy Rahul, made me so frustrated. The reveals at the end were... something, I guess. Just left me feeling like... "well, okay, I guess." They were saddening and deflating in a way I'm never excited to feel in books. I understand why Ivy made the decisions that she did, but I'm just overall unsatisfied with this as a whole. The writing was really good; very sharp and effective. The little romance with Rahul was cute. There were lots of queer characters, which is always nice. But, idk.Listened to the audiobook as read by Xe Sands, whose voice I find I always really enjoy.This wasn't bad overall, depending on what you want to get out of a fantasy/mystery story. Your mileage may vary. I'm looking forward to reading more from Gailey.Content warnings: (view spoiler)[murder, descriptions of blood and gore. (hide spoiler)]
2755184504	Okay I literally started this book and finished it in one sitting today. In a few hours bc I was so engrossed in figuring out the mystery. This is basically a murder mystery novel set at a magical school. I like that the school was different in the way that it wasn't set up to be this AMAZING thing - it was much more real. Just like a real high school, but with magic. As in, stupid teenagers and all there drama, not perfect students. And it was refreshing to see it from an outsider's perspective (since Ivy, the MC, is nonmagical)! The characters were all pretty interesting, and I want more about Alexandria!!! and Mrs. Webb!!! The pacing was well done, it kept me reading and dropped hints at the perfect time to keep my attention. At first I thought I knew where it was going, and then I didn't and then I did again?? And I loved it haha. I highly recommend this to everyone!!!
2902990681	A typical mystery with an atypical setting. This book was really fun. I did guess the big reveal very early on, but there were lots of moving pieces that came together in a way I wasn't expecting. It ended up making the ending pretty surprising.I liked how the school were the book is set it a more realistic version of Hogwarts. Magical teenagers are still teenagers, covering lockers in graffiti, skipping class and having sex. The two sisters relationship was really well done as well. I don't normally care for family drama in my fantasy but I did in this book.I had read this author's other book River of Teeth and although I liked that book, the writing in this one is very different, and much better in my opinion.
4935012558	Read as audiobook. Really really liked this one. I’m kind of a sucker for a grizzled PI story with a twist. I appreciated the amount of predictability in the mystery, not too much but not too little, I think the amount of plots and mysteries were managed well. Just really enjoyed itOn second read I found it just as enjoyable. I think this time I reflected a lot more on the characters because I kind of remembered the plot and I appreciate the care Gailey took in considering the characters, I found them to be very interesting and how the relationships between them were woven. A weird reflection on teenage girlhood and siblinghood.
2971902750	2 🌟A murder mystery in a magical school.But where's all the magic?Felt so much more contemporary than fantasy.I so wanted more.Maybe if the main character was magical it could of been more interesting. But blah.
2882320856	“Magic for Liars” Sarah Gailey’s new mystery about a mysterious death in the library of a magic academy is unexpected. It’s more an exploration of the human condition than a book about magic, and yet magic, is at the heart of the novel. In a way this novel is a retelling of Icarus and hubris. But mostly it’s about relationships, and loss, and love, and life itself. Gailey delves deep into the aspects of magic that most fantasy authors never have the nerve to tackle- that is real life issues of birth control, abortion, cancer and death. Can Magic cure cancer and if not, why not. Typically fantasy authors shy away from the challenge. Gailey, however, doesn’t just delve lightly, she peels the band aid off in one huge yank. And for Ivy Gamble, the down on her luck private detective, who has been affected by magic her whole life. Not because she has magic, but because her manipulative, and mean twin sister Tabitha does. So to Ivy, Tabitha goes all the glory of magic, all the bright hues, all the specialness, and to Ivy, is the drabness of regular life, the hurts and slights of life. But it is Ivy Gamble, a 14 year private investigator, who trolls the depths of philandering spouses and failed marriages who is hired by the headmaster of the exclusive Osthorne Academy to investigate a death at the school. And leave it to the unmagical Ivy to figure out not one mystery but three. This is not a book for everyone. Don’t expect magical fun a Hogwarts with a little mystery thrown in. This short book is not for teens. It’s for fantasy readers who want to be challenged in their understanding of the plusses and minuses of magic and its affects. Magic and the magicians, who practice it, do have limits.Ivy Gamble is a private investigator, who has spent her entire career investigating the dregs of married life – cheating spouses and those who think their spouses are cheating. She is tired and defensive, wounded from losing her mother at a young age to cancer and hurt from the fact that her twin sister, Tabitha, has magic and she doesn’t. But its more than that, its also that Tabitha tortured Ivy, not literally, but by toying with her emotions when she was a kid. Mugged and stabbed in the hallway of the dirty stairway in front of her office on the first few pages of the novel, Ivy ignores the wound and soldiers on with her down on her heels life- a stab wound is just one more thing to ignore, and in the pages of the novel, there are plenty of other wounds less physical and more emotional that Ivy throws into a garbage can in her mind and closes the top., But life starts to look up. She gets a new client, Marion Torres, who wants her to investigate the strange death of Sylvia Capley, who was found bisected in the library of Osthorne. The death has been ruled misadventure by the Magical police, a spell miscast. But Torres does not believe it. Because in a sense, Capley was merely the health teacher and couldn’t cast such a spell. So Torres wants Ivy to investigate, and already knows a Gamble, because Tabitha, Ivy’s sister teaches at the school already.On one of her visits to the school, Ivy is confronted by Mrs. Webb, who recognizes Ivy is hurt and takes her shoulder apart right in front of her and cures the infection. Its a vivisection in detail. Ivy is amazed about her skill, but wonders about whether that same skill can be used to cure other deathly ills. The headmaster tells her it cannot, that Mrs. Webb is one of the foremost healers of the time and others could not even attempt to cure cancer or other deathly perils. Ivy starts her investigation by questioning some of the students – Dylan DeCambray who thinks that he is the Chosen One, the culmination of a long family prophecy, who will change magic forever and his sister Alexandria and her posse – Brea, Melissa and Courtney. But it’s not only about the investigation. Ivy is now living on campus, in the dead teacher’s apartment, and Ivy can envision herself as a student at the school, and for her investigation to succeed, she takes on a role she has wished for her entire life, that of a magic user like her non friend sister.Ivy has skills, she is after all a pro in discerning liars and manipulators and the games people play. So she quickly notices that Alexandria has a strange power over her friends, and she also learns about the relationship between two students, which may have resulted in unintended pregnancy consequences. It seems that the dead teacher was the go to for birth control and other potions. But Ivy also has a heart to heart with her sister. It seems an attempt to clear the air and resume a relationship cutoff when they were teens by Ivy’s jealousy of her sister’s powers, her belief that her sister did nothing to help their sick mother and Tabitha’s meanness. Ivy was traumatized both by the loss of her mother and by the loss of her sister, but maybe this investigation will give her a chance to re-connect. Reconnect to her humanity and reconnect to her sister, but does Tabitha really want to re-connect?Galley smartly has Ivy get involved with a teacher at the school, Rahul, the physical magic teacher, who can connect some of the dots about magic that Ivy does not know, but also can break the wall that Ivy has used to separate herself from life. And although Ivy lies to him too, that she is a mage like her sister, it’s really a white lie to help with the investigation, although it’s also to make Ivy feel better about herself because she just “knows” from her experience with her sister that Rahul would think differently about a person who doesn’t have magic.While living in Capley’s apartment on campus, Ivy finds a journal, with an obsession about magic. But since Ivy does not speak magic she needs help in deciphering some of it. And Ivy also discovers that a crucial part of the medical file on Capley is missing. Finally Ivy also uncovers a big secret through her adept questioning and intuitive leaps that one girl was pregnant and needed a surgical medial abortion, a spell that requires a lot of magical training, which was illegally cast not long before the death of Capley. It’s a spell that reveals to Ivy something this reader had figured out – the name of the killer. And while talking about this in the library, Ivy uncovers something else, the Chosen One.So in the end, Ivy solves three mysteries and maybe at the very very end, gives herself a chance to have a real life. As stated above, do not go into this book looking for a fun little mystery about kids in a magical school. This is an adult book for adults.
6354939083	read this on a recommendation from a dear friend because i felt myself slipping into an audiobook reading slump (it’s a thing, i just made it up) and even though this is so out of left field for me at this moment, like i pick up mysteries few and far between, i can happily say that this was a DELIGHT. it’s sufficiently creepy and cozy and mundane and extraordinary all at once. the writing style is so easy to slip into, and the narrator for the audiobook is just excellent. i think what’s so interesting is that even though this is a murder mystery, and that alone can drive the plot, it also has some really cool emotional subplots (which may or may not play INTO the mystery, very cool) - ivy’s relationship to magic/being non-magical, the relationship between ivy and tabitha, the high school drama between the students. it felt rich in a way that i don’t always get from thrillers/mysteries and i really love that it’s torn between the creepiness of a murder mystery and the coziness of a low-stakes, cozy contemporary magic book. this is probably best read in october during spooky season, but it was also a nice little distraction during the peak summer heat. it packs an unexpected punch, and i think it’d be fantastic as an adapted film or mini-series (especially if mike flanagan made it)!!
2807008227	4/5 starsI received and ARC of this title in exchange for an honest review."Fucking magic."A brief review because I'm not in a review-writing mood, but I really enjoyed this and still want to share what a fun little read Magic for Liars is. Ivy Gamble is a private investigator. Her sister is a mage, and she is not. This fact has ground her down for most of her 30-odd years. When a teacher is found dead at the same magic school where Ivy's sister works, Ivy takes on the job of solving the murder. The twisted tale involves teachers, students, theoretical magic, passion, loss, and desperate acts. Magic for Liars is a unique story of a murder mystery set in a magical world, like J.K Rowling's Harry Potter and Cormoran Strike series were shoved together into one dark, violent, twisted tale. I did think that the writing got a little convoluted sometimes, and I mixed up the characters now and then, but all in all, I enjoyed this read immensely. Magic, murder, and romance abound in this painfully beautiful debut thriller set in a world much like ours, but where mages go to high school and play with dangerous, even life-stealing, spells.
