3433054698	I always love the claustrophobic, ominous, dark, disturbing vibes of the stories take place in boarding school. And the quick, intriguing start throughout Lauren Triplett’s ride to school, seeing the signs on the road informs them there is a rapist at her new academy, gave me hope and hooked me up from the first pages.But after Lauren’s arrival to Atwater which is a special place of feminist intellectuals and progressive thinking , we learn more about rape allegations about a faculty member swept under the rug! But after bombarding of too many POVS and details about different school characters( yes: unfortunately each chapter is told by different student’s third POV) I truly got lost. It was more challenging to watch Netflix’s German series “Dark” and differentiate the characters’ names and which timelines they were coming from. I couldn’t catch the direction of the story, I couldn’t remember all those names and their back stories. I started to lose my interest and I finally gave up. It could be promising debut because the plot line and beginning was powerful but the way of story telling with nearly 100 POVs was mentally exhausting experience for me. I still want to read the next works of the author but unfortunately this didn’t work well with me.So I’m giving three solid stars only for promising start and intriguing plot line. Special thanks to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for sharing this ARC with me in exchange my honest thoughts.
3845532211	3.5 stars!All Girls has several elements of interest: a coming-of-age story, mystery involving a boarding school, strong female characters, friendships, and a scandal, and it tackles it all with nine distinct characters’ voices. While that worked for me because I got a strong sense of what was happening, I can also see how it wouldn’t work for everyone because of the number of characters.That said, All Girls is an important story. It takes place in 1995 when several female students are sexually assaulted, and the school has a crisis on its hands.I thought the author handled these difficult topics with sensitivity, and even with the number of characters, I felt close to them all because of the intimacy of the storytelling and how well-written it is. I think it’s best read considering it as connected stories rather than a singular plot, if that makes sense.I received a gifted copy. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.Jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader
3465716447	2.5 starsYes, my rating for this book is pretty low but I did get a few worthwhile things from the story. The main issue I had is there were too many characters and with each chapter featuring a new POV, it was too much. The story got lost with so many different voices.Atwater is an all girls boarding school located in Connecticut. At the beginning of the school year, a former student makes allegations of sexual misconduct against a teacher. The story starts off following Lauren, a new student at Atwater, and from there on a new character is featured each chapter throughout the course of the school year. While the schools handling of the allegations is a main plot point, the story gives a look at everything that comes with growing up as a female.There are a few moments in the story that really resonated with me. It was like I was transported back to being a fifteen year old girl and could totally relate to what a certain character was feeling or thinking. The author touched upon on how back in the 1990s certain subjects weren't really talked about and therefore it was hard for many of us growing up back then to adequately describe our experiences or feelings. And that hit me like a ton of bricks realizing that was spot on and how the girls of my generation and the ones before me, just didn't have all of the tools to help us navigate our way thru adolescence. But I also feel a sense of hope we are making strides in giving the girls of this generation more knowledge and building up their confidence so they are able to express themselves. There were some good, thought provoking moments here and there. However, I can't help but think some of the author's messaging got lost because of the way the book was executed with the multiple POVs. Somewhere around the start of the second half of the book, it became difficult for me to focus. I like when you can feel invested in the characters and with the way this book was set up, it wasn't really an option. Before you knew it, you were moving on to the next character.Even though I didn't like the story as a whole, it was worth reading for the couple powerful moments that resonated with me.Thank you Netgalley and St. Martin's Press for giving me an advance digital copy in exchange for an honest review!
3419001923	2.5 stars, rounded upI generally like boarding school stories, and the timeliness of the subject matter of sexual assault appealed to me. This book, however, suffers from introducing way too many characters, too many points of view. So many so that I got dizzy and confused and had a difficult time following what was even going on. I need to be able to connect with a character (or at the most three or four, but this was excessive, well over 50, but with nine main characters) and while I see what the author was trying to do with this book by showing us how complex and pervasive different issues are with teens, it just didn't work for me. The themes explored here are important and meaningful, and the writing is pretty good, so I did round up rather than down, but the execution of the plot was so convoluted that I couldn't rate it any higher. I would read something else by this author in the future.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.
3630774542	Thank you to Netgalley and St. Martin's Press for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.(actual rating: 2.5/5)This book had the potential to be really good, but I get the feeling that the narrative attempting to be told was ultimately lost between all of the perspectives that were used to tell it.'All Girls' shows the aftermath of a sexual assault allegation at a Northeastern preparatory school, as told through the thoughts and experiences of nine different girls. The administration at the school desperately wants to brush the situation under the rug, but the girls and others rise up to tell their story, refusing to be silenced.I think that part of the reason I didn't enjoy this as much as I was hoping to may have been because I was expecting too much. While there were some 'mystery' elements to this story, it's far more focused on how the girls learn to grow into themselves amidst all the happenings of the school.Of course, that being said, I would have enjoyed it if the story and the girls' growth were told in a more meaningful way. The biggest problem I had with this book was all the perspectives that it used to tell the story. At one point, it gets to be entirely too much, and you start losing interest. I think that if this book were written with fewer perspectives, it would have made things easier to follow, but also easier to care for the characters and what they are each going through.I also felt a bit disappointed by the pacing of the novel. It was slow and somewhat hard to get into, as far as the plot went. There was a fair amount of buildup but it never seemed to really go anywhere, if that makes sense. It was all quite lukewarm for me.One of the best parts, however, was probably the cast of the audio production. They definitely kept things interesting enough for me to go through with the entire book.Overall, while I think that some extremely important points were made about what it's like to grow up as a young woman with the 'system', it had a lot of potential and could have been executed in a far more impactful way. I would recommend this book to those who like coming-of-age arcs in the form of boarding school novels, but this didn't exactly make the cut for me.
3433418375	A sensitive and heartfelt debut novel about issues of sexual assault and consent at an all-girls boarding school. The nook confronts sexual assault in 1995, both as it was viewed then versus now in the #MeToo era.I really enjoy the way Emily Layden writes. She really captures the feelings and atmosphere of being a girl turning into a young woman at a boarding school.This book’s biggest strength is the same as its main weakness. Each chapter is told from the point of view of a different student. On one hand, this allows for a really richly layered and interesting reading experience that really gives you a great sense of the school and its population. On the other hand, as soon as you grew to love or become extra interested in a girl, the story switches to another girl’s perspective. Lauren, the new student who begins the book; Macy, who has a really interesting story of being phobic of many types of food; Emma, who comes from a very traditional background but has been brave enough to be out with her girlfriend, a fellow student. These were all characters whose voices I loved. I really would have enjoyed spending more than one chapter inside their heads.This is a promising debut on a timely subject from a really talented new writer. I’ll be looking out to see what she writes next.Thanks to St. Martin’s Press, NetGalley and Emily Layden for the ARC of this very well-written first novel.
3657257144	ARC provided by publisher in exchange for an honest reviewall girls by emily layden is listed on google as a mystery, though i struggle to call it even that. most would expect build-up, suspense, discovery. in this novel, there is little to none. instead, this is a book shrouded in bureaucracy, almost meta-fictive: syntactically tedious, safe, evasive. while an alumnae's alleged rape is placed at the center of an all-girls boarding school in 2015 new england, there is never any real sense of danger and so the stakes remain minimal throughout the course of the narrative, even as faculty is swept up in sexual misconduct accusations and the ensuing public scrutiny.by nature, the 1995 rape disrupts the contemporary culture of atwater in a very secondhand way, allowing current teenage girls to reevaluate their own sexual language, ideas, and even experiences. as such, the novel spends most of its time contemplating girls growing up too fast, or else girls clambering to keep up with the thrashing tide. the premise is promising without any knowledge of the novel's execution—though never at any point a mystery, unless readers are interested in the fate of the physical setting itself, rather than its inhabitants. the question of who's behind several acts intended to pressure the school into addressing the rape is answered at the very end of the novel, with no lead-in or time to collect clues, culminating in an ultimately unsatisfying and arguably head-scratching conclusion. this is largely the fault of the novel's set-up.all girls opens with lauren triplett, a wide-eyed freshman fascinated by signs accusing atwater of employing a rapist during her drive to campus on move-in day. this is a notably strong entry point into what i assumed would be a harrowing journey, though most of the novel's strengths end here. each chapter follows a new girl navigating atwater, volleying between grades, campus familiarity—or lack thereof—and varying degrees of involvement in the central "mystery" plot. the novel never settles and so readers are left scrambling to understand an ever-shifting narrative trying to capture too many angles at too slow a pace.right when i felt like i was getting comfortable in a student's head, the novel pivoted and tossed a new character (and, by consequence, a new web of relationships) at my feet. in other words, it's impossible to ever feel comfortable reading all girls. less so when the central thread—a former student's rape—weakens with every chapter. attempts at capturing stories and lives are cut short by the choppy choice in third-person head-switching, so that very few characters ever have a chance to feel anything more than vapid or allegorical. it's true that readers sign up for this when the synopsis calls the novel one "told through the shifting perspectives of an unforgettable cast of female students"—"unforgettable" being the ironic operative word. still, selecting a few essential students to rotate between as the plot thickens would seem smarter than splitting time between throw-away characters who do little to advance the so-called mystery. the head-shifting becomes particularly egregious in the final chapter, which is divided into fragmented vignettes from six separate seniors, most of whom, for the last 300 or so pages, were so uninvolved in the narrative as to be meaningless to readers after a nonexistent climax.the effect is less novelistic and more like a short story collection. in fact, i can't help but think all girls would have been stronger in this format. as it is, the most interesting and plot-central characters receive the very least—olivia anderson, for example, head proctor and liaison to the administration on campus, introduced in chapter one and present throughout the novel, receives only one small perspective-specific vignette at the end.which leads me to another issue i took with the novel. i was more often bewildered with the language used in and around students of color than not. olivia, for example, is one in several victims—and a repeated one, at that—of the novel's preoccupation with the idea of the token non-white girl or diversity scapegoat. instead of serving as a commentary on racist education practices, which i'm sure was the purpose of these references, olivia becomes just that, existing only through the ways she's consumed by others. she's never allowed to escape this racial perception. until the absolute end, this is her fate from even those closest to her, with no narrative remorse. attempts to—briefly, fleetingly—humanize herself are met with disregard. olivia is not humanizing herself, but pulling out "a trump card."even as i type this review, i'm struggling to understand whether lines like, "...she can see that a few of the chinese students are home, the girls whose english never really caught up, despite three years of immersive-language study," are supposed to reflect the insular perspectives of white boarding school campuses or whether they're simply unintentionally absurd.finally, there is the prose, which is often gratuitously descriptive, particularly where similes are concerned: "the buildings grow like runway models, now: tall and skinny and twisting in the wind," and, two pages later, "...his red windbreaker billowing behind him like a smallish parachute." this works to slow down the narrative, while alternately heightening all girls’ strong sense for aesthetic. you would be hard pressed to find a passage that more needlessly captures the teenage, the obsessive, the grotesque: "she counts a smattering of blackheads at her chin. she begins by flicking a nail across a small whitehead near her eyebrow, listening to the tiny pop as it bursts. she examines the damage—minimal, none really, just a little red mark where there used to be a mountaintop of pus. leaning closer to the mirror, she places her forefingers on either side of the tip of her nose and then drags them in opposite directions, stretching the skin, before moving her fingers toward one another again. she watches as strings of discharge sprout from her pores, long and thin and solid enough to stand on end, like tiny bacterial beanstalks."while not the biggest fan of the prose, i have to commend the novel for its ability to really ground itself in its setting. it is superbly fleshed out and the strongest foundation throughout the narrative. atwater—all its beauty, its twists and turns, its layers of history—are practically movie-rendered. the prose is bolstered in this regard. moving through the campus feels more than believable; it feels like layden is transferring a real place to the page. standout chapters like "fall fest" and "retrospectives" soar as the characters alternately connect and/or disagree with this setting. the other strong point in the novel is undeniably the digital. the interludes, specifically, that separate each character's chapter/section, always serve to enhance the narrative and add something new/surprising to our glimpses of life on campus. likewise, all girls' understanding of teenage relationships with technology is impressive—certainly some of the strongest i've seen explored. the presence of tumblr and its ties to lgbt identity, in particular, are extremely well-done. it's hard to truly summarize how i feel about this book, since the reading experience was so disjointed, but i have to say, mystery excluded, all girls is a slow, thoughtful rumination about power within the walls of western institutions—and to what ends that power is used—with several glaring problems. its nature writing is memorable and atwater leaps off of the page. more than that, though, its work to capture the realities of sex and sexual assault through adolescent eyes—the horrors, the embarrassments, the confusions and retrospective realizations—are impressive. for those with the patience and willpower, this is worth the read, if only for the social commentary it provides on sex.
3562535870	I really had high hopes for this book. The opening chapter grabbed my attention and I really though it was going to be intense.I feel that the message the author was trying to get across was missed due to, basically, too much going on. Too many point of views and too many stories.Also, there didn't seem to be any climax... I waited... and waited... but the story fell flat. Thank you to the publisher St. Martin's Press for the free advanced copy in exchange for a review.
3421457315	All Girls by Emily Layden is a debut young adult mystery read. This one of course stood out to me yet again being set in a boarding school which usually for me becomes a great setting for a creepy mystery or thriller. The book opens up following Lauren Triplett who is set to be a new freshman as she makes the journey on the way to the new school. As she approaches the school grounds however she begins to see signs posted along the way pointing to a rapist being somehow involved at the school.The opening chapter to this one did pull me in and make me ready to get to a juicy story but it seemed as soon as I switched to chapter two it lost all the sparkle. You see this debut makes what I feel is a mistake in stretching too thin switching the point of view each chapter between way too many characters for this reader at least to take all in and care about.Now, I did end up trudging my way through this book hoping for things to begin to gel together and reengage me in the story. This never did happen though as besides the too many points of view the mystery seemed to be really, really buried and instead the book felt as if it was a collection of short stories instead of one full mystery. There are those that did love this one but unfortunately I’m not among them.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
3842514741	All Girls is a book that should’ve worked for me but just didn’t. It follows a variety of girls during one year of HS at an all girls boarding school. It started out really strong as one incoming freshman drives to campus with her parents and they see signs claiming a rapist works at the school. So a great. intriguing and powerful premise that just wasn’t executed well for me. There were just way too many viewpoints here, every chapter is from a new POV and just when I would be warming up to a new character, the chapter would end and another new person was introduced. The strong messages got lost in this style for me unfortunately and truly the only thing that kept me going was the excellent audio narration. This had a full cast of narrators and they were all great, so if you’re interested in this book I highly recommend the audio. ⭐️⭐️ stars for the book but ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ for the narration leaves me at a 2.5-3 overall 🤷🏻‍♀️
4464312855	Actual rating 4.5/5 stars.Give me all of the books containing all of the elite academic settings, sinister mysteries, intense female friendships, and teen drama and I will be one very happy reader! This book, however, contained far less of the latter and more of the former, leading it to be a harrowing, absorbing, emotional, and important read.
3459461564	I found this to be a poignant and timely book. It’s centered around an all girls school and each character drives a different part of the story. In the beginning of the book we meet Lauren Triplett who is off to a new adventure at a new school. On her way to this new school she can’t help but see various signs talking about a rapist in the community. Lauren hopes it’s not happening at her new school but upon arrival finds out the signs have everything to do with her school.We find out the history of the school, the experiences of past and present students and teachers, and what the schools position is on the accusations. As is in most similar situations, not enough is done, and it’s not done quickly enough.
3725173071	This book was a poignant and sensitive novel exploring sexuality, women's issues, sexual assault, and how the era of #MeToo was felt in an elite boarding school rocked by scandal. Thank you so much to Emily Layden and St. Martin’s Press for this debut that comes out February 16th.This book was about an elite boarding school in Connecticut that is linked to a sexual scandal. The school tries to control the crisis, while the girls deal with each of their individual issues. The book follows nine girls, each chapter exploring a different piece of the story. The story combines the power of the elite with the struggles many women have gone through in their lives, as well as navigating adolescence.Thoughts: I thought this book was well-written and very timely. It was a coming of age story that looked at many different student’s attending a prestigious private school. I really enjoyed how each chapter was told from a different perspective and gave you different information. Each one is so interesting, and I actually felt myself wanting more of some chapter instead of them ending, sometimes abruptly. It is in NO WAY a mystery or thriller, which was also a bit of a letdown after being marketed as such. I wish books would be more accurately labeled, so readers would know exactly what they are getting into. Nevertheless, this story was a heartfelt narrative that explored meaningful topics. 3-stars.
3613774457	This book has a great opening chapter introducing the reader to the character Lauren and setting the stage for her start at an all girls boarding school. Upon arrival, she sees signs that suggest a rapist lives on campus. Immediately attention grabbing; however the rest of this book fell flat. Each chapter is told from the POV of a different student with little connecting each character to one another or the main story line of sexual assault on campus. The individual chapters would share insight, emotion, and experiences yet left me wanting to know more about that character's story as the book went on. I hoped the second half would go back to each character and expand on their story, but it did not. Often you would get to a climax moment only to have a page or two of the chapter left for a quick finish and onto the next character. I also struggled because there truly is no climax in the story; within each chapter you found the peak and fall. Each chapter continues through the year and some have no reflection on the main issues presented to the reader. I often got lost in the story as various characters were introduced and connected to other characters I knew little/nothing about. It was a struggle to finish this book as I was not following a major story line and eager to know the outcome, rather each chapter presented something totally new.
3413915124	The author’s debut starts with assurance and an intriguing narrative set in an elite girls’ boarding school. (Think Curtis Sittenfeld’s cult classic PREP.) But I DNF, for the same reason I DNF PREP. The boarding school world interests me not at all. I could not relate to sniveling teens and their artificial lives. Just me. I’m sure PREP lovers will adore ALL GIRLS. To each her own!Pub Date 16 Feb 2021Thanks to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley for the review copy. Opinions are mine.#AllGirls #NetGalley
3792865191	All Girls is an eye-opening debut about finding yourself in the most unfamiliar situations. Unique, and captivating, it’s also about finding family in those around you, and not being afraid to voice your opinions even in places no one wants to hear them. I admired the way the author approached so many sensitive themes and topics, while not shying away, because these are such important topics to talk about, but there are just not enough people talking about them. Seeing all these perspectives seamlessly transition from one to another, and just being able to view all these diverse points POVs on the same topic, was something I cherished. All Girls was an enthralling, poignant book that kept me hooked till the last page, and managed to capture both my heart, and my attention.READ MY FULL REVIEW OF ALL GIRLS HERE!
4404379055	Having attempted the genre myself, I knew how difficult the task Emily Layden set for herself in All Girls, and how much she accomplished, especially catching that quality a good boarding school gives, the difference between simply an education and a formation. Students not only learn things, but the school is essential to who they are for the rest of their lives. The last sentences brought it out: “Often what [the alumnae] feel is a very particular kind of ache, one that will spasm at random intervals . . . and when it does they’ll know: this is the longing you feel for a place that’s become a part of you. This is the yearning you carry when you never really leave.” I felt waves of that emotion when I attended the centennial celebration of my own old school and I’ve tried to capture it in an essay and a novel I wrote as I reflected on what it meant in my own life. I am hugely envious of Emily Layden’s embodiment of that ideal into The Atwater School. (As in The Johns Hopkins University, the definite article is part of the school’s official name, though none of the students made the obvious joke that it’s there to distinguish The Atwater School from all the other Atwater School imitations.) Atwater is, as the title boldly states, All Girls. Though I believe admitting girls is the best thing that can happen to a boys’ school (apparently Salisbury and South Kent are the only all-male boarding schools left in the vicinity), there is surely a necessary role for girls’ schools and women’s colleges—some learn and develop best in the absence of the boorish ill-mannered loutishness boys and young men display even with the civilizing effect female presence provides.At the start of the 2015-16 school year, Atwater is shaken by an old crime from the past. A former student from 20 years back, Helen Mirro is suing the school, claiming she was raped by a faculty member who is still on the staff of the school. At the end of the first term a long-time faculty member resigns under a cloud but protesting his innocence and in spring Mirro’s suit is reported settled for an undisclosed amount. What really happened is mostly hidden in the story; the accusation and the suit—leading to an evaluation of the school’s historical handling of sexual abuse cases by an outside consulting group—serves less as main subject of the book than as a MacGruffin, a device to propel the plot, providing a point of reference for many of the events that take place in the course of the year. (NB: All Girls isn’t “propulsive,” it’s engrossing.) The final report of the consultants provides an egregious example of contemporary educationese babble: “Programming that helps students develop an understanding of healthy relationships, including education in sexual literacy and affirmative consent, will be most beneficial in establishing a climate of respect. The school has made clear its intention to assume leadership in sociological change.” (Unfortunately, like too many English majors back in my youth, I received my “education in sexual literacy” from Henry Miller and D. H. Lawrence. They proved somewhat unreliable guides.)A boarding school, like a ship or a regiment, is its own microcosm and a great pleasure for the author of a school story is inventing your own little world, giving it a local habitation and a name. This setting is perfect, almost spot on with where I put my own imaginary Saint Aidan’s School, though unlike my imaginary town of Wensleydale, Falls Village is a real place in Connecticut. School story authors invent our own school rules and titles as well. Mrs. Brodie is Head of School (at my old school the current incumbent has that title, though I still feel I ought to address her as “headmistress”). Each dorm has a Proctor and a “Peer Educator”—“upperclasswomen”—under supervision of a “Dorm Parent” (clumsy title but unfortunately “housemistress” won’t do today).The time spans from September till Commencement at the beginning of June, the book arranged in sections from the viewpoints of different students from freshmen to seniors (hard to keep Brie, Bella, Bryce and Blake straight) mostly signalled by a significant traditional school event, Initiation, Fall Frolic, Vespers (a talent show), Class Trip to New York, Prom, and Commencement. Some were fun: initiation involved nothing more threatening than a naked night run in the dark and most of the dares connected with Ringing, where juniors act silly at the behest of a senior who will present each with her class ring, are innocuous. But unhappily for Chloe it was, “I dare you to make out with a Westminster guy in the corn maze” at Fall Fest, when students at boys’ schools are invited to visit. It didn’t turn out to include “affirmative consent”!As prep-school students, the Atwater girls are preoccupied with college admissions. Of course, “the trinity” of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton are top choices. As a Hoya, I was pleased that Georgetown was well up in the hunt, even contributing an alumna (Atwater is good on Latin grammar, unlike too many America colleges who call a woman graduate “an alumni”☹️) for commencement speaker. Wellesley and Barnard figure too along with Pomona and Williams, though it was disappointing that only one girl had the good sense to choose one of the “public Ivies”—University of Michigan. All Girls mostly ignores the academic side, though APUSH (Advanced Placement United States History) gets some of the girls’ attention. But the accounts of the staff of the school paper, the Daily Heron, which does not appear daily, were delightful and accurate. The student editors imagine themselves Woodsteins and naturally think the suppression of the issue devoted to sex abuse at school a violation of their first amendment rights.The section recounting the relationship between the lesbian couple Olivia and Emma was most perceptive emotionally, but also brought out the spiritual void at the center of Atwater, a preoccupation with self and absence of the sense of community the 24/7 common life at a boarding school should foster. The proctor Olivia is the Atwater cynosure, striking in appearance (her mother is Korean, her father African-American—surgeons at Stanford), talented, brilliant, and always in control in any situation. She has a relationship with Emma, from Cincinnati—provincial by Atwater standards. Their arrangement is pleasantly domestic; Olivia spends every night in Emma’s room in her dorm. “They practically live together, every day playing house. Their classmates think it’s cute and romantic.” But at the school Prom, held at the nearby estate of one of the girls’ parents, Oliva gets a look at Emma’s mobile phone whilst she goes to the bathroom and discovers an account on Tumblr and her messages with a college student in New Hampshire named Harper. It exposed what I thought the principal flaw in Atwater that Layden should have made explicit. As a proctor, Oliva neglected her duties in sneaking out to spend her nights with her lover. She should be in her dorm. Suppose there was a fire—or a shooting incident. These are her girls and she should be there for them. Similarly, Chloe should not have been in the corn maze as prey for a visiting Westminster boy for a ring-day dare. When the consultative group needed “preventive work . . . to create lasting change” in their sexual harassment policy, I wondered why the Dorm Parents and the Proctors and the Peer Educators had not already made it a condition of belonging that the girls should have each other’s backs. Although academically and socially the Atwater ethos is lacking, All Girls totally captivated me. Almost from the start I felt this book could well be a boarding school classic, on the same level as Patrick Gale’s contemporary classic Friendly Fire and Melina Marchetta’s On the Jellicoe Road. It felt almost as if these girls were people I knew. Best American boarding school story ever.
3837541700	[Blog]::[Youtube]::[Twitter]::[Instagram]::[Pinterest]::[Bloglovin] “All Girls” is a captivating story that dwells into the students’ lives and drama in an elite prep school, and I liked it.I thought the author did a lovely job for a debut novel. At times, I felt like I was reading a book of short stories because you can read each chapter as a stand-alone. Moreover, I enjoyed the level of details the author put into the storyline and the characters. Each character stands out from one another and experiences something different about their prep school life. Some of them come from different backgrounds, cultures, and ethnicities, and I enjoyed reading their storylines. One of my favorite passages was when the characters talk about the sand mandala and its significance. There are some storylines that I felt were powerful. My favorite ones were the “Fall Fest” revolving around Chloe and “Field Trip” revolving around Sloane. Also, the author interestingly formats each chapter that ends with the end correspondence on a parallel storyline.However, I initially picked up this book because it markets itself in the mystery genre. But, there is not much of a mystery element. The story begins in a pleasant suspenseful manner, but the storyline revolving around the rapist always takes a backseat and is resolved halfway. While I enjoyed all the girls’ storylines, the story felt it lacked a higher plot that connects all of them. I had hoped that storylines revolving around the character (from each chapter) would get together and culminate in a higher storyline towards the end.Overall, I think “All Girls” would have been amazing if it had an overarching storyline with a better direction. Nevertheless, it is still entertaining at times and worth reading.
3650535015	I wish I could say, “you have to read this book!” but I can’t. It’s also not one I feel like I have to dissuade you from reading. Personally, I didn’t think it was particularly good or bad; it was just okay. Picture this: We’re at a prestigious 4-year boarding school in Connecticut. We’re following 9 girls as they start their academic year unlike any other as a rape allegation resurfaces against one of the male teachers and a student that attended the school 20 years earlier. I appreciate the conversation this tried to have about how women are rarely believed when they speak out about their sexual assault and the lengths schools will go to save their prestigious names, even if it means letting a rapist teach at their schools. Unfortunately, the way it was written took away from the impact. In each section of the book, we’re following one of the nine girls, and the way the story was priced together made it feel like I was reading 9 short stories rather than one cohesive story. There were just so many characters in such a short amount of time that I couldn’t find myself really caring for any of them. I even found myself forgetting most of their names as I was reading the book, which makes me wonder if the characters weren’t interesting enough for me to remember. Or maybe I just have a horrible memory. Thank you St. Martin's Press for my copy in exchange for an honest review.
3411997436	***Thanks to NetGalley for providing me a complimentary copy of ALL GIRLS by Emily Layden in exchange for my honest review.***For as long as I can remember, I wanted to go to boarding school, possibly due to the Madeline books about little girls in two straight lines. Now I’ll still do anything to get my hands on a boarding school book, so I knew ALL GIRLS would be a must read.I fell right into freshman Lauren Triplett’s ride to school, seeing signs at announced a rapist at her all girls’ academy, eager to read the fall out. Unfortunately, each chapter was told from a different student’s third person point of view, so readers aren’t able to see an individual’s perspective for the entire school year. Emily Layden fleshed out each character so that she felt like a real person, rather than just a character in a book. The topical story about a rape allegation swept under the rug, the victim dismissed and even blame could have very well been nonfiction. Layden’s storytelling is less “ripped from thr headlines” and more “let me tell you what happened at my school”, because sexual abuse and coverup is so pervasive sensationalization does a disservice to victims and secondary victims.Ultimately, ALL GIRLS left me wanting more, one girl’s whole story of that pivotal year.
3562927512	Atwater is a prestigious all girls prep school in Connecticut which attracts the best and the brightest. They have a stellar image until an alum announces that 20ish years ago, she was raped by a faculty member when she was a senior at the school. She says the school covered it up and asked her to leave. She also says the teacher wasn't punished and still works at the school. Over the course of a school year, we see the impact of this scandal on 7 different girls at the school. They each have issues of their own, most related to power, sex, or being their true self. Each section of the book is told from the 3rd person point of view of a different student. It was almost like 7 interconnected short stories. The overarching narrative was more about the school and how the faculty and students address the scandal than it was about any of the individual girls. I connected with some of the students more than others and wish I could have followed their stories for longer. It was a challenge to remember which girl was which between the various sections. There were too many characters, in my opinion. The book would have had more impact for me, if the number of POV's was reducedWhat to listen to while reading...Campus by Vampire WeekendYouth by DaughterRead All About It, Pt III by Emeli SandeSweater Weather by The NeighbourhoodComfort Crowd by Conan GrayHallelujah by k.d. langOut of My League by Fitz & the TantrumsTeenage Talk by St. VincentStubborn Love by The LumineersCall your Girlfriend by RobynThank you to the publisher for the review copy!
3808988328	I liked this. I'd glanced at the reviews, so I knew it was told by a different POV each chapter, which was a good thing to be prepared for.I just . . . it did a good job of showing the world as it is, both the flaws AND the good things. Like, it didn't feel without hope, you know? It didn't make me feel like boarding schools were a terribly evil thing, which I kinda thought it might.Also what a perfect title for the book. All Girls. Yes.(I didn't go to boarding school, but I was one of those kids who super wanted to. :D)
3786737694	Genre:/Literary Fiction/Women’s FictionPublisher: St. Martin’s PressPub. Date: Feb. 16, 2021My rating: 2.5Mini-ReviewThis novel is marketed for fans of Curtis Sittenfeld’s, “Prep,” which I am. That novel is set in an American boarding school, “a hotbed of privilege, ambition, and neurosis, every bit as snobbish and competitive as anything dreamed up on this side of the Atlantic”. ... Google Books. That pretty much sums up “All Girls” but, add in a sexual assault of a former student by a male teacher that took place twenty years ago. The girl is now a woman, who wants revenge on the school for kicking her out and covering up the teacher’s crime. The girls in the present, attempt to figure out who the teacher was so the story morphs into a mystery. The reader will follow nine students, which would have been okay if the author had spent time on their character development. However, this is not the case. Each character comes and goes so quickly that there is no time to be acquainted with them. It is easy to get lost on who is who. This is a shame because the novel has much potential. Layden does such a good job of capturing boarding school female teenage angst. With a good editor, “All Girls” would then read more like “Prep.”I received this Advance Review Copy (ARC) novel from the publisher at no cost in exchange for an honest review.Find all my book reviews at:https://www.goodreads.com/review/list…https://books6259.wordpress.com/https://www.barnesandnoble.com/review…https://www.facebook.com/martie.neesr…https://www.instagram.com/martie6947/https://www.pinterest.com/martienreco…\https://www.amazon.com/https://twitter.com/NeesRecord
3534316099	Even though this book is written in the way that it could come across as a women's fiction novel, the level of language and the characters' personalities comes across as very YA feel. This novel is set at an all-girls boarding school in the year 2015 called Atwater. It is Lauren and her new friends a first year, driving up to the school - they are bombarded with what looks like election signs proclaiming that the school has a teacher who is a rapist. The novel then follows several of the students' experiences in the school from hazing to initiations to the life of being part of the campus in general. All with the undertones of trying to work out which teacher was accused of rape and the consequences that the student had coming forward in 1995 and the school just sweeping it under the rug as of course this is considered bad publicity for the school. All Girls felt very realistic as you can imagine what schools would have been like back in 1995 which was years before this #MeToo Movement and also boarding schools/ private schools have more often than not a reputation to uphold and don't need this staining their perfect records and image. All Girls by Emily Layden was also a slow-paced read and at times the characters did feel a bit immature but overall was a thought-provoking novel as we think about how far we have come in terms of the #MeToo movement and what it is has meant for the development of rape accusations in today's world as things like this are taken more seriously now and a lot of women are now being listened too, whereas in 1995 - it was mainly he said/she said and without any evidence, it was seen as simple hearsay and if the person was in a position of power, the odds were in their corner to come out on top rather than the victims.
4818832460	3.5 stars! My brothers went to a co-ed boarding school and I went to a non-boarding all girls school. I really think both of our high school experiences, even if i enjoyed theirs by proxy, melded well in this book! I loved the third person narration, it really helped me connect with all the individual girls, and I liked hearing about different girls from different characters.It’s super rare to find stories strictly centered around women so for that reason alone I loved this book. It is very different from my experience but there were little bits that reminded me of my all girls school experience like when the upperclassman are welcoming the freshman telling them that this is the most magical place on earth and when one girl thanks the teachers for understanding that no real work gets done during the week before christmas.
4033833696	This started off strong, but fell short. I expected it to go quite as it had. The writing was good, it alternated character povs, and the ending felt underwhelming. RTC.
3410203276	I received an advanced readers copy in exchange for an honest review This book started off petty strong but wound up going too many places, never once circling back to one girl or idea. Very much a three star book.
3434220895	All Girls, by Emily Layden, is an ensemble novel set in a girls boarding school in Connecticut. It's more a series of interesting vignettes over an academic year than a plot with a resolution. The girls' varied experiences touch many topics -- sexual consent, stereotypes, classism, power dynamics, racism, abuse, gender presentation, and more. Too many, perhaps, because the book never quite draws a conclusion or makes a statement.Most of the scenes were girls at a turning point or realization, with insightful characterizations and descriptions, but we rarely see the consequences of these moments. Instead, it's on to another character, creating an interesting ramble through private-school adolescence, but with way too many characters to keep straight. I liked how the young women's experiences were taken seriously and their emotions were valued throughout the book. Many of the vignettes relate to sexual consent or men "getting a little weird" as one of the alums describes it, including a whisper network of which classes to avoid, but it never really formed a narrative or led to a conclusion. I was very interested while I was reading, but I realized at the end of the book that I'd been waiting for the meandering stories to coalesce into something more, and it never quite did.
3920243788	3.5/5I was loving this book until the very end: I read a lot of people complaining about the constant change of POV, but it didn't bother me (I actually liked that a lot, it shows that the author has met many young girls and knows their daily lives, their struggles). The problem is that I was expecting some kind of closure with the central plot, and I didn't find it. Maybe it's more realistic that way, but it left me a bit disappointed. All the other aspects of the novel were great, and I always enjoy a good boarding school story, so this was ideal for me.
4335648086	El ambiente en general me gustó. Las historias de las chicas,algunas mejores que otras.Mi favorita fue la de Sloane,triste para ella,sin sentido para los demás.
3860339464	All Girls is set in the school Atwater. We follow the lives of many different students over the academic year which is filled with talk about sex and abuse. With ex pupil Karen accusing one of the teachers of rape, a friendly vigilante starts a campaign in support of Karen and leaving the teachers and students questioning how well the school informs and protects the students in regard to all matters of sex.So I had no idea what to expect when I starting reading All Girls, I must admit I was pleasantly surprised. I love the fact that even though we don't follow just one student but several, yet I felt I got to know each of the students whose life we got a snap shot of. All these girls are dealing with their own issues, eating disorders, body dismorphia, sexual confusion, finding their place in life and so on. All the issues each girl is suffering from are all so true to form. I can remember being that age and having issues with some that are mentioned throughout the novel. I loved the vigilante element of the story we ate kept guessing throughout. Who is the person fighting against the injustice for Karen. I must say I didn't have a clue and was quite surprised. I also really liked the whole idea of the school having to make a public decision based on the accusation. Further the conversations that are meant to happen regarding sex whilst you are in education seem to start, with a long way to go. It's written really well with a third person narrator however the description is so intense that I could truly picture it myself Honestly just loved this book would I recommend yes ofcourse. Its an easy book to read but had a few trigger points regarding rape so if that's something you think might be too much to read , however it is possible to skip a few paragraphs and continuing on. This is very much a coming of age book and this truly highlights the important roll education plays in young people. As well as the lack of knowledge surrounding sex all had as young people and where the line of consent. Easy 4 stars. Thank you to netgalley, the author and the publishers for the advanced digital copy.
3924941997	3.5 Stars See more on my Bookstagram: Shelf.Inspiration Instagram All Girls captures one year at a prestigious New England prep school, as nine you f women navigate their ambitions, friendships, and fears against the backdrop of a scandal the administration wants sickened. But as months unfold, and the school’s efforts to control the ensuing crisis fall short, these girls are forced to discover their voices, and their power. I was happy to get this book from @booktalkwithjb ‘s giveaway and was so excited to read it. I loved the setting of this book, it is set in a high-class boarding school in the middle of farmland. The premise of this book is about a past scandal that has been covered up/ was not handled well by the school and how that impacts the current students. However, I thought that the scandal wasn’t the main focus of the book. It is mentioned semi-frequently, each chapter of the book is told from a different POV of one of the girls, but never much in depth. And because the scandal happened twenty years ago, it seemed a bit detached. The one thing I did appreciate about this way was that we got to see each girls reaction to the news of the scandal and how they framed it in the context of their lives. Because there were so many POV’s, at times I forgot who certain characters were or sometimes what happened in the book. I felt like I needed a bit more from most characters, or wish that there were less POV’s with more content from each. Overall, I think this is an interesting book with a great setting, but I just needed a little more from it.
4002139489	Notes, not a review--and it may not be completed in the future. Present chvang needs to think about it, but future chvang may forget about it.I liked it. Rounded up because I kind of really liked it.Reasons why: it's a story told in vignettes, each one told from a different girl's POV. It suits the story well, because ultimately it's about a boarding school and that the power dynamics that permeate that climate. It's about teenage girls developing an understanding of sex, unequal power dynamics, coercion, consent, and affirmative consent (in the context of a scandal rocking a boarding school as it comes out that a former student had been raped by a teacher and the school covered it up and they try to come to grips that the school, which they love and despite its message and mission of empowering girls, doesn't protect them). Ultimately ends on a message of what it means to love a place, about wanting it to be better. Not sure; I don't know what it means.Recommendation: to ... people who want to read about ... boarding schools? About girls' experiences ... of ? wanting to be recognized as people and how institutions fight back against that because it's costly? (not just in money, but in terms of reputation?)
3606875191	The plot for this book sounded so exciting, but unfortunately I was extremely disappointed with the execution and found parts of this boring and confusing.This book follows the perspective of nine girls attending a prestigious boarding school, Atwater, and their lives over the course of one year. Each chapter begins with the third person perspective of a different girl, showing the affects of Atwater on its students. The book begins at the end of summer, when the girls are just beginning to arrive at the school. This year when they get there, however, a scandal from the past is brought back up to the surface, threatening the public image of the school and rocking the lives of the girls who attend. Although this was marketed as being about the scandal, it focuses more on the girls' lives with the scandal lurking over them ominously in the background. The first character who we follow is Lauren. I found her to be very boring and thought that the characterization for her was done poorly. I didn't understand why she mattered to the overall story, and if you asked me now to tell you something about her, I wouldn't be able to come up with anything. The second character we followed was Macy, who I personally thought was actually quite interesting and relatable, as there was a bigger focus on her character. But again, I don't understand why she was important to the story. The third character who we followed was Louisa, who I found to be most like myself. I thought that there was a good focus on both her character and on the scandal, and I believe that unlike most of the other characters, her perspective was actually important to the story. The fourth character who we followed was Chloe, who I still know absolutely nothing about because the entire chapter was focused on Ring Dares, which weren't explained well, and the Fall Fest. The fifth character who we followed was Celeste, who I found to be odd, yet interesting, but I didn't see the point of adding her to the story. The sixth character who we followed was Abby, who I liked because I feel like her story took place at an interesting part of the plot and her characterization was done nicely. The seventh character who we followed was Sloane, who I feel like the only reason why we got her perspective was because the author wanted to show us her backstory and why she acted the way she did, but her perspective honestly felt like one of the most pointless. The eighth character who we followed was Emma, and I had mixed opinions on this chapter. I do feel like the idea of this chapter was interesting, since Olivia had been mentioned so many times before, so I believe that the idea was to show what she was like from the view of her girlfriend, who didn't see her as perfect. But although I liked Emma, I feel like it would have made more sense to just have put this chapter from Olivia's perspective. And we never (view spoiler)[ even really got to see what their relationship was like, since this chapter was focused on their breakup. (hide spoiler)] And the last character who we followed was Bryce, who I personally didn't find interesting, but I can see why her perspective was necessary. Based on how many characters there were, I had many issues with this story. First of all, it felt like the author couldn't figure out whether she wanted to make each chapter focused on the plot or on the characters, and ended up alternating between at random points. I would have much preferred if this story focused on the effects of the scandal on the girls, or on the scandal itself, but it ended up landing somewhere in between. Also, I feel like each chapter could have been its own short story, since none of the perspectives seemed connected at all and it felt like the author picked random characters to talk about. Nearly every single one of the perspectives felt pointless, and they all made me question why this specific character was picked to tell this story. In fact, some of the girls' perspectives didn't focus on the character or the scandal, so they just seemed random. Not just that, but there were so many characters continuously being introduced, some of which even had similar names, that it ended up being confusing. I feel like it would have made more sense to just have the perspectives of Louisa and Bryce, and maybe add in the perspective of Mia, who I feel like we could have gained so much if we had seen the story from her point of view. Another problem with the characters was that although the flashbacks they had were interesting, they all seemed a bit random and like the author was trying to tell the story mainly through these flashbacks, especially Sloane's chapter. I feel like this book would have been interesting if it was just a short story collection of all of the girls' pasts, not attempting to connect them to one another or an overarching plot. And my last problem with the characters is that there was never any good closure at the end of their chapter, but instead of feeling ominous, it just felt unresolved. A problem that I had with the story as a whole was that the pacing seemed weird, since there was absolutely no climax, and the amount of emotion you felt stayed the same the entire time. There was honestly not really a plot at all, and even though in theory it was a good idea to show the effects of the scandal on the characters, it just felt like the author attempted to go through with this idea and ended up getting confused on what she was trying to do. This book was too complicated and not explained well enough, and it seemed like the author was trying to do so many things that not everything was done to its fullest potential. But even though I did have many problems with this story, there were a couple of things that I liked. The first is the writing style, which took me a while to get into, but I did end up liking. The second is the mood and setting of the book, which felt well done and extremely thought out. The setting in this book honestly reminded me of the school from "Her Royal Highness" by Rachel Hawkins, but gloomier, which I enjoyed. Overall, I do believe that this book had an intriguing and original idea, but was done with bad execution and ended up being quite forgettable.
3896346821	beautifully written and really well thought out :)
3654753604	I love a good novel in a school setting and this one checked all the boxes! Layden follows nine girls at a prestigious all-girls boarding school as they face the challenges of school, friendships, and boy problems--all amidst a scandal of an alleged rape of a previous student by a male faculty member. It's an honest and straight-forward look at contemporary society and the issues our kids face as they navigate high school, social media, and the often-blurred lines of right and wrong. It's just a lovely, heartfelt coming-of-age story that will resonate long after the final page.Thanks to NetGalley for this ARC!
3440547883	Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing me with a eARC of this title in exchange for my honest opinion. “All Girls” had such a promising premise but it fell flat. Each chapter is a different girls’ perspective which really muddied the entire book for me. Trigger warning: sexual assault. The book centers around this all girls boarding school where a student is suing because she was assaulted by a teacher and never received true justice. Each different girls’ perspective sometimes offered an interesting story involving this main premise but then some perspectives would have nothing to do with the rest of the book. There was just way too much going on.However, I will say that the book itself is well-written and there is a lot of promise here. Teenage girls are more complicated than one might think and many different issues are attempted to be tackled in this book.
3893260567	Very good read - you have the dark and mysterious girls boarding school and protest signs been hung up all over town regarding sexual harassment from a couple years back. An ominous way to start of the new school year! We get to know each of the girls, their strengths and weaknesses and mostly their secrets.
3861181593	A combination of My Dark Vanessa and The Divines, both were better books. (My Dark Vanessa was a MUCH better book). This book has a lot to say about women, and teenage girls, and sexism, and sexual harassment, and sexual assault, and how we fail women, and just can’t get there. It suffers from too many characters and not enough story. Good writing, the potential of a good story, falls short.
4465656507	I loved the idea behind this book and I loved how modern and relevant it read. I loved its appeal to adult and YA readers but I didn’t love how many perspectives the novel was written from or how difficult the links between characters were to make. If each new perspective was more explicitly linked to the last, it would have been much easier to create a character map in my mind.
3416190101	An excellent boarding school mystery that kept me engaged throughout the entire journey. The writer’s depiction of the characters was spot on. Highly recommended.
3905607015	I’m sad this is over - love, love, loved it!
3677311233	✨All girls✨I was initially drawn to this novel as its set at a boarding school and I loooove campus novels😅 but I wasn’t expecting this book to move me in the way that it did & I’m so glad I read it.This book was very unique in the way that it was written. Each chapter has a different POV and the characters almost wrap around the story instead of the story being about the characters. I enjoyed how the story continued and flowed with this writing style and how even when it wasn’t a characters point of view, they were still mentioned and referred to throughout. I personally loved this approach & thought it added so much depth and perspective to the novel. The commentary on the #metoo movement was very intriguing and I especially liked how this book tackled the topic of institutions and the role they play in silencing victims and covering up incidents. This book revolves around the rape of a student by a teacher that occurred twenty years prior but the institution itself was still grappling with the ripple effects of the event two decades later. The teacher accused kept his job for 20 years post accusation but the victim was silenced and removed from the school. In current day, the students of the school were trying to find out what actually happened 20 years earlier and reflected on the injustice of it all. They wanted accountability, they wanted change. I thought this narrative was really powerful.Finally, I loved the theme of sacred places and the role educational institutions have on your life. You spend a small percentage of your life in school but carry that experience with you for the rest of your life. I loved one line in the novel that spoke about loving a school or a place means taking accountability and striving make it better. Overall, I loved All Girls and highly recommend it! It releases 2/16. Thank you @stmartinspress for my review copy!
3789106491	** spoiler alert ** *soft spoilers*An engaging peek into the world of a private All Girls school, the reader is quickly enveloped in a mystery to solve concerning the school and its past.The novel casts a wide grouping of characters, from the very well off to the just-so-glad-to-be-able-to-get-in girls, from the “all in” to the “when can I get out of here”. But all of the girls are loyal to the school in one way or the other and are eager to figure out who is trying to sully the school’s name and why. Poor girls, rich girls, straight girls, lesbian girls, preppy girls, pretty girls, dowdy girls – this book had them all, and frequently overlapping.The book is mostly about a sexual assault allegation from decades prior, but there is also an interesting sub-plot about censorship in the school’s newspaper that I found intriguing. I didn’t much care for the round-robin, #MeToo movement storyline, however.A decent read, and a decent debut. If prep schools or sex scandals interest you, this might be for you.A big thank you to Emily Layden, St. Martin’s Press, and NetGalley for providing an Advance Reader Copy in exchange for this review.#AllGirls#EmilyLayden#StMartinsPress#NetGalley
3864267149	We follow a group of girls as they navigate everyday life at their boarding school. A coming of age story with a dark background plot.Overall, I felt this was a good reflection on growing up as a teenage girls on topics such as relationships, friendships and peer pressure but from the synopsis I was expecting more of a mystery novel.At the start we're introduced to a historical sexual assault case at the school and I expected this to be explored more deeply but it was always in the background and only really mentioned briefly in each chapter. However, this flowed really nicely and did raise thoughts on how victims of sexual assault are treated and often silenced. Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with a copy to read.
6068079474	A compelling mystery in a highly immersive setting, it seemed like this book had everything I was looking for. Since the author taught at all-girls boarding schools for years, the Atwater world felt so real I kept forgetting it was fiction. The rotating perspective allowed me to get to know numerous individual characters better amongst a wide cast, learning their varied experiences and thoughts throughout turbulent experiences of allegations and questioning their feelings about being vulnerable young women in society, unprotected even by their prestigious school. Sadly the end felt so rushed and unsatisfying, leaving me feeling somewhat let down after such a promising build-up and no sign of a sequel. Such a shame as I had high hopes for this!
6814818521	this was so boring & disappointing tbh..wasn’t at all a fan of the way each chapter changed POV and we never got to hear from a character more than once. instead of getting one well fleshed out perspective we get several surface level ones. also the writing felt somewhat immature at times, despite the relatively heavy subject matter; i feel like i could have read this at 15 or 16, certainly not at 24. and it was just boringggg omfg glad it’s over
3761477192	I thought this book would be a fun fluffy YA read, but it was far from it. The author does a wonderful job capturing the nuance of growing up as a young (albeit privileged) woman. It wasn’t easy/my favorite to attempt to follow the constantly changing narrators. However, individual perspectives weave a really meaningful story. It took me a bit to finish, but I haven’t stopped thinking about some of the topics covered (at what age do you learn consent being a big standout) so I think she did something really right.
4073856435	A nice change from reading non-fiction. The book portrays several characters each navigating the year through an all girls private school. I loved the descriptive imagery and related to many experiences ⭐️⭐️⭐️
6851974438	I wish this was longer and we got more from each girl!!!! But i loved it and was filled with such appreciation and nostalgia for my own all girls school :)
5912087350	Rated 3.5
3855324060	The cover of "All Girls" grabbed my attention immediately. I went to an all-girls school for nine years, and this was the exact uniform of many girls in my neighborhood, so it felt familiar. The cover, combined with the excellent story, was irresistible. The novel begins when a former student comes forward with an allegation of sexual assault. The story unfolds over a single academic year as everyone reacts to the accusation. The book follows several characters as they navigate the challenges of growing up in an environment of sexual violence and institutional non-transparency. All the while, the acts of a vigilante prankster threaten to undermine the school's efforts to quash the scandal. This book raises questions about the school's role as a protector and defender of young women. It also talks about the power girls have to assert their voices. The book was written in multi-POVs for nine characters, which was one of the most exciting things about it. It could almost be interlinking short stories, but I have to say Lauren and Macy stood out to me the most. The initiation chapter was very intense to the extent that I was panicking as if I was right there, experiencing it alongside them.To listen to my interview with the author, goto my podcast at: https://zibbyowens.com/transcript/emi...
4099080685	Kept reading, waiting to connect with someone,something. Never happened.
3470374541	It’s the start of the school year at the prestigious Connecticut boarding school, Atwater Prep, sexual assault accusations surface and create waves throughout the school. A former student accused a male teacher of raping her twenty years ago and has recently come forward to sue the school. Over the course of a year, the students try to make sense of the accusations and continue their long-honored traditions, while the administration desperately tries to maintain the reputation of the school. All Girls is broken up into sections of about 30 pages, each focusing on a different student as the year progresses. It follows students from all four grade levels, socioeconomic statuses, and reputations. Overall the book felt more like a series of short stories centered around the same topic rather than a cohesive novel. The one thing that pulls the story together is the underlying arc, the sexual assault scandal at Atwater, and the cryptic accusations that surface throughout the year. I enjoyed the story, but I wish the story focused on a few of the girls. There were a few characters I wish I was able to revisit, but the dozen or so different perspectives offer a more broad view of the student body and the school's vibe as a whole.Some of the boarding school elements and traditions reminded me of the Private book series by Kate Brian, although All Girls follows multiple characters where the Private series only followed one, and the plot is much less dramatic. The style reminded me of J. Courtney Sullivan’s works, so if you’re a fan of hers, you will likely enjoy this book.Thank you to St Martin’s Press and Netgalley for the advanced copy. All opinions are my own.
3797885360	It is hard to believe that All Girls is Emily Layden’s first novel. This is a simply amazing look at life at a girls’ boarding school in Northwest Connecticut. Behind the facade of the old monied Atwater school lie mystery, cruelty, jealousy and harassment, covered with a veneer of sexual tension. Look for this one on the best seller lists!“A RAPIST WORKS HERE” read the signs that greet all students as they arrive at Atwater. Naturally, the school administration is reluctant to address the issue in depth. Years earlier, a student accused a faculty member of rape. She was expelled, he is still teaching at Atwater. The students, of course, are curious and devote an issue of the school paper to the case itself and a survey of student views about harassment and rape. The administration refuses to print the paper. They forget that teenage girls know a lot about technology. The issue is released online through an anonymous account and is widely read. Other harassment themed events follow, all planned to reveal the identity of the rapist.This mystery alone would make All Girls a first rate read. However, it is the stories of the harassment that each girl has experienced that add so much to the novel. Chloe’s is the saddest, Sloane’s the most disturbing, but all these stories are heartbreaking. Over and over, Layden show the different ways the young women react to sexual harassment. I wish I could rate this must read book more than 5 stars.Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin's Press and Emily Layden for this ARC.
3450237806	A book set in an all-girls boarding school? Count me in!Curtis Sittenfield’s *Prep* is one of my favorite books, and those who liked *Prep* should pick up *All Girls.*Beginning with freshman Lauren Triplett’s ride to campus, *All Girls* takes us through the 2015-16 year at Atwater from the point of view of many of the students. Throughout the big events of the academic year, reminders of an alleged rape that took place on campus years before continue to surface. Who was the perpetrator? Could this happen to me? And, more importantly, What is Atwater going to do about it?
3852498039	My only encounter with dormitory life was a single year as a freshman at a women’s college, but I still remember the cloistered, intimate atmosphere and the intense bonding. I think I’m a natural audience for a book called ALL GIRLS, former teacher Emily Layden’s first novel and a delicious page-turner.When you’re new at the fiction game, it’s smart to equip yourself with a well-organized time zone. Layden plots her story over a single academic year at Atwater, an elite Connecticut boarding school. Each section represents some tradition or landmark moment (Orientation, Vespers, Prom), and interspersed with the narrative are “documents” (newspaper articles, letters, official emails from the school) that lend a feeling of authenticity to the setting.Layden really nails the earnest bureaucratic doublespeak of administrative communiqués. She’s also good at building an almost anthropological picture of adolescent female behavior at close quarters: the clothes (“camel sweaters and Barbour jackets and jeans tucked into Hunter boots”; “an army of preppy, slender, perfectly groomed lumberjacks”), the hair (“a perfectly untidy bun”), the bands, the cliques, the bootleg booze, the language (“a tendency…to try on the linguistic costume of an adult woman, yoking together big concepts and tight construction in a distinctive pitch and clip”), the cool and the uncool. It’s fun and colorful and full of well-observed detail.None of this would matter without some plot-driven momentum. Atwater is in crisis because of an accusation by a former student, then 18, that she was raped in 1995 by a male faculty member (still employed there), and that the administration covered it up by expelling her for a minor infraction. In the wake of this news, someone in the school community is perpetrating a series of rule-busting pranks: posting roadside stands near the school that read A RAPIST WORKS HERE; leaking a banned issue of The Daily Heron, the school newspaper, on the subject of sexual assault; blanketing the campus with art by the alleged rapist --- all meant to pressure Atwater into firing the man in question and highlighting the need for a more enlightened policy. The addition of a whodunit element ratchets up the suspense as the girls speculate on the culprit’s identity. (Yes, you do find out at the end. No, I’m not going to tell.)While the school struggles to contain the scandal, the girls --- nine different narrators in all --- struggle to understand consent and sexuality in their own terms. The students are very sweet, “relatable” characters, each of them feeling, as adolescents almost universally do, that they are vulnerable outsiders. I was particularly touched by Chloe, a shy junior whose sense that she has fallen behind her classmates (“Everybody else was having versions of sex now, or at least talking about it”) leads her down a dangerous path to an incident that will resonate for the rest of her life.Although prep schools are tradition-bound places that seem outside of time in some respects (absolutely nothing but bridal white dresses for graduation), in ALL GIRLS Layden has updated the coming-of-age genre for the 21st century. Gay relationships are pretty much accepted, although the model lesbian couple on campus has problems of their own. The kids make cynical remarks about a specific ethnic identity being a pass to a good college but are also aware of unconscious racial bias. An Asian American girl gets excessive credit for her straight black hair, while a mixed-race senior from California is praised for her “exotic,” “interesting” looks and is asked where she’s from. Although #MeToo won’t go viral for another couple of years (the book is set in 2015), the rape accusation suggests that an institutional whitewash of sexual wrongdoing has been going on at Atwater for decades (the ripped piece of preppy tartan on the cover signals how the school’s ideals have been tarnished).Voice, I think, is where Layden’s inexperience shows. The multiple points of view, while entertaining, feel as if she is skimming the surface rather than digging into any one character. It’s hard to get invested. This reader had trouble keeping track of all nine, especially when many have those unisex names (Addison, Blake, Sloane, Collier). The narrators sound too much the same, and they tend to become representative “types”: math/science nerd on the autism spectrum, failed ballerina, mixed-race lesbian, Asian American with restaurant in family, wealthy scion of three generations of Atwater girls.Teenagers are always kind of divided: trying to be chill on the outside, while anguished and anxious within. Layden is well aware of this, but I think she’s most successful when her tone is dryer, wittier, more distanced. She tends to get sentimental and/or soapboxy when trying to tap into nascent feminist convictions, as when one student observes that the culture “takes and takes and takes from girls, all the while refusing to recognize them as whole people.” Laudable sentiments, for sure, but so earnest. Especially toward the end, Layden seemed to be jamming her material into a sleek, uncontroversial package. It easily could be turned into a teen show on The CW.And what’s wrong with that? Nothing. There’s a place for books that are deep and transformative and for those with a lighter touch. ALL GIRLS is a juicy, terrific read with a dash of girl power, and I gobbled it up like a bag of SkinnyPop (Layden is big on brand names). It took me straight back to that time in high school when we were all trying to figure out what the hell it meant to be a woman, and other girls were our mirrors, rivals, co-conspirators and guides.Reviewed by Katherine B. Weissman
4244897979	I tried to remeber the last time I read a book as boring as "All girls", but gave up. Yes, thumbs up for #metoo, by all means, but what about telling a story that has some kind of drive, if not a plot? We never get close to the nine (!) protagonists, we wait for the bad guy(s) to apear, for a crescendo, a chartarsis, whatever. But no. Nothing. And for God’s sake, why use mile-long sentences when they have no literary function other than making you forget the start before you reach the end?
3561152419	Really enjoyed this one! Loved that Layden did not focus on one main character instead giving each girl their own chance to tell her story. While I did not go to an all girls boarding school, All Girls left me feeling nostalgic for an experience I never had. Highly recommend!
4452036391	Brutally honest and well written. A very relevant book.
3699223153	The story of All Girls is set at a fictional prep school in the Litchfield Hills of Connecticut called Atwater. There are many characters and each chapter, denoted by an annual event at the school, focuses on different girls, their experiences at the school, and sometimes their backstories. The book’s first two chapters set the stage for the book’s central theme as students arrive for the 2015-16 school year. Several signs advertising that “A Rapist Works Here” are planted on the only road that leads to the school. The message is confusing and disheartening, especially for families with little experience with boarding schools. As the story progresses, the girls react to the danger intimated by the signs. Still, the school, steeped in its traditionalist, diehard ways, struggles to acknowledge the story behind the sexual assault victim’s message. Each successive chapter carefully conveys the pros and cons of the time-tested ritualistic events such as fall fest, vespers, and prom. The author does this through the realistic contemporary conversations, comments, and observations of the astute female students. Each of the featured characters has an opinion. Each wants to be heard and make a statement within the confines of the rules and expectations, but sometimes those rules have to be tested when “enough is enough” of the conventional secrecy of what happens behind closed doors. Although there is some admiration for the time-honored annual events, it is clear how demeaning some of the pageantries are and how so much was designed to maintain women’s place in society as second class citizens. The many voices provide multiple reasons why Atwater and the real institutions it represents need to change. Of course, this school year just precedes the national MeToo movement. The school year’s events describe both literally and metaphorically why MeToo’s message was so desperately overdue. The author does a great job of showing, not just telling what goes on in traditional school settings where esteemed faculty members’ reputations are treasured. She also outlines how easy it is to protect adults at the expense of students experiencing life-changing moments. Mrs. Brodie, Head of the Atwater School, responds to the former students’ accusation and current students’ concerns as though they are a mere disruption. It is incredible and deplorable, depending on your point of view, how skillfully she downplays the cries for help from the students she purports to serve. Institutional denial is alive and well at Atwater as it becomes publicly known that a faculty member accused of raping a student twenty years ago is still teaching at the school.The strength of storytelling in All Girls is in the depictions of 2015-16 students using their access to multiple forms of social media as forums to speak their minds and stage unsettling pranks for the adults at Atwater. It becomes obvious that the students can wreak havoc and outsmart faculty and staff members living in the past and using dated means to uphold the school’s integrity and reputation. The students in this story are brilliant and driven to accomplish great things. They can see beyond the age-old expectations for “proper” upbringing, and they show how to employ modern tools to expose both the old-fashioned narrow-mindedness of the faculty and the loopholes in the social-emotional learning that is part of the school’s mission. I found the story compelling. The author, at times, had me vacillating between sympathizing with students and adults. Many issues are raised about how schools respond to accusations of sexual assault in high school, especially when staff members and their spouses live on campus. Is it always one big happy family? What about the power imbalances? How is trust developed? These are such important questions that are not sufficiently addressed in the nation’s schools. The importance of student concerns and the danger of dismissing them is a pervasive theme. Layden creates articulate teenaged characters whose conversations with each other are replete with the typical coming of age concerns and demands that those living in ivory towers change their views about the women they serve.Reflecting upon this book, I reacted similarly to Susan Choi’s Trust Exercise. It is tragic when adults condescend to or patronize high school students. It is a cultural travesty when those entrusted with young adults’ teaching and supervision in a boarding school shirk their responsibility to provide guidance and protection. The hopeful outcome that the students at Atwater seek, the intolerance of rape and sexual assault, is something that all modern communities must strive to attain. Ignoring sexual assaults is just not acceptable, regardless of the status of the accused and accuser. Conducting business as usual as the world finally recognizes the issues at established cultural institutions is neglectful. I am grateful to NetGalley for providing a free copy of this book in exchange for a review.
3841748243	Tucked away in a rustic, rural part of Connecitcut lies Atwater - an all-girls boarding school where the tuition is high and the reputation is higher. It's an institution with prestige and a proven track record of turning young girls into powerful, accomplished women. It's the fall of 2015, and Freshmen are unpacking their bags for the first time when the news breaks out that an alum has made a serious accusation against a former professor, and against her trusted school for failing her. Emily Layden's All Girls takes its readers through that year on campus - and each chapter, a different moment in that year, is seen through the eyes of a different student: some just arriving, some getting ready to go, and some who wish they would never have to leave. I'll start by saying this is an ambitious novel - Layden's novel is a coming-of-age story with no main protagonist. A coming-of-age story of a whole generation, really. Tackling that sort of work, along with building out a world of academia spoiled by scandal, is a mammoth task. And while what results is an enjoyable, readable, and not disinteresting story, I found myself lost for a large part of the book. I'm a fan of a character-driven study, and I've recently been spoiled by two knockout works that deal with young women in academics: Elizabeth Ames' The Other's Gold and Quan Barry's We Ride Upon Sticks. By comparison, this one doesn't feel quite right. Gold and Sticks both successfully give us a multi-narrator story, but keep its central cast to a tight minimum, allowing us to actually learn about our main interests from both their own perspective and how their peers see them. The cohort in All Girls spans four years of students - it means you meet a lot of people. And while the main girl in each chapter is thoughtfully drawn out, usually with an interesting arc, the other girls end up becoming background noise in each story - it's hard to keep up. The fact that the novel broken by character and time-frame gives the novel a cherished short-story element. But many of the chapters lack a payoff, even if that payoff is an uncertainty. Chapters are sewn together with a series of emails and letters from the faculty to parents and teachers, but these sections don't feel additive. This is not to say I hated it. Layden's love for her girls - and, as a former boarding school instructor, the institution - is palpable. And the book does accomplish its goal of offering a reader a perspective on clipped-winged birds - girls who are being challenged to solve issues thrust upon them without the tools to succeed. The writing has nice atmosphere and great warmth. But I wanted to love this one and I walked away liking it instead. Knowing this is Layden's debut, I'm pumped to see where she goes from here.
4443648304	The "all girls" of the title refers to an all-girls boarding school in northwest Connecticut. The action takes place in the 2015-16 academic year which is chiefly important because it is prior to the #MeToo movement. The main character in the book is the school itself, called Atwater. It is a beautiful campus and the school is steeped in tradition and has high academic standards. It's the kind of a place where the rich and famous send their daughters and it's the kind of place that obsessively guards its unsavory secrets. The unsavory secret it was guarding in 2015-16 was a sexual assault lawsuit from an alumna who was raped by a teacher 20 years before. Apparently, the teacher is still working at the school. Families driving to the school to deliver their daughters on move-in day are greeted by signs along the roads that say "A Rapist Works Here."The school manages to get the signs removed fairly quickly, but the local newspaper gets the story and publishes an article about it. The genie is out of the bottle. Strangely it seems to me, this does not appear to give any parents second thoughts about the school, or at least they are not a part of this narrative. Their daughters are left to deal with the fallout of the allegations as they experience all the hustle and bustle of boarding school life.The story of life at the school was confusing and hard to follow for me. That was mostly down to the fact that the narrative is told from the points of view of nine - count 'em, nine! - different girls. There is just too much information here about all the girls and about various school personnel. It's been ten days since I finished reading this book and, honestly, I could not now tell you the name of any of those nine girls or differentiate any of their backstories. They are all just a blur to me. In my opinion, the author (for whom this was her first novel) would have done better to tell the story from the point of view of only one or two of the girls with the others as secondary characters. It certainly would have made the story easier to follow. Where the author truly excelled was in the depiction of day-to-day life at the boarding school. She believably gives us the relationships that form among these high school girls as they deal with their own problems and anxieties. And always in the background are the questions about the scandal facing the school. Are the complainant's charges true? If so, who is that rapist? Why did the school cover it all up and never deal with it? The various responses of the girls also are rendered believably. Some of them blame the victim or believe she is lying. Others may recognize the wrongdoing but they don't know how to respond to it. Again, it is important to remember that this is pre-#MeToo and these girls are products of their upbringing and basically have no tools to recognize how they are being manipulated and possibly betrayed. Their school's lack of transparency leaves them ambivalent and confused.I experienced a slow burn of outrage in reading this book. The school's lack of accountability is truly infuriating and the reader wishes for just one character with the courage to stand up and say, "This is wrong!" In fact, the school newspaper, to its credit, does prepare an issue addressing the rape allegation, but, predictably, the school administration will not allow it to be published. The cover-up reigns. If the writer were setting the story in today's world, she would likely write it quite differently. At least one likes to think so.
4155498597	This book made me think about a lot of things. How I was sexually harassed by a French teacher at my own co-ed boarding school. How he would seek me out at the fitness center and after assembly and chapel, how he would send me emails and leave gifts in my mailbox. How our head of school blocked me from meeting with a fact-finder after some other girls complained about him. At the time I thought it was because she simply didn’t like me; now I suspect that it was because despite his inappropriate comments to a number of girls, his actions towards me were of the type that she’d have been mandated to report. It made me think about how utterly betrayed I felt when I learned that a Latin teacher I had trusted, and who had written a college recommendation for me, is now married to another girl from my graduating class. Not because I think either of them has necessarily done anything wrong, and not because I begrudge that they fell in love, but because in a world where there are so many reasons to be wary, I needed that wall of propriety between student and teacher to be thick and inviolable. And them being together ruins that; puts further cracks in my already derelict sense of safety. It made me think about the night I was raped by a classmate at a graduation party. Someone I thought was the last person who would be in any way inconsiderate, much less forceful. It made me think of all the ways girls and women, especially young women, are constantly exploited. The title, of course, works on two levels—the novel is set at an “all girls” school but it deals with a topic that all girls must confront as part of growing up—that part of being a woman means facing a world that constantly seeks to exploit us. Sometimes in obvious ways, that the one in three of us who’ve been sexually assaulted know. But in more subtle ways too, like the labor we do—emotional, intellectual, domestic—that goes not just unpaid, but largely unacknowledged. #YesAllWomenIn the end, All Girls suffers from having been released less than a year after Lacey Crawford’s Notes on a Silencing. It doesn’t quite live up to the formidable standard of subtle complexity and uncomplicated, raw candor that Crawford’s memoir sets. But it’s a fine effort nevertheless, and worth a read.
3850274886	I really liked this book quite a bit. In the era of #metoo it's kind of a foregone conclusion that there will be YA books addressing the tendency of people in power to get away with sexual abuse. This one is well-written with an interesting angle that could have felt gimmicky but is done well enough that it doesn't read that way. Instead of a straightforward story told from one girl's point of view, it's more of a series of stories; each chapter centers on a different girl at an all-girls school that has become the focus of an investigation, since it has come to light that a teacher accused of raping a student there twenty years previously has been permitted to continue teaching... and that the student in question was expelled in what sounds an awful lot like retaliation for speaking out. The author deftly writes each character with a unique and believable voice, and takes the reader through a school year, one traditional celebration at a time (the writer has been a teacher at the kind of school her characters attend, and it shows) as each character navigates her own tragic or mundane or rebellious year. Perhaps most indicative of Layden's skill is that while she does maintain some suspense as to the identity of both the teacher in question and the person committing minor acts of defiance to hold the administration accountable, the overarching sense of the novel is that life just kind of goes on while these dramatic accusations float around just out of sight. Things happen: people resign, students protest, a girl is coerced into sexual activity against her will and better judgment; Vespers and the Fall Festival and graduation happen, and the water closes over each individual tragedy or triumph with barely a ripple. Change happens, but it is slow, maddeningly so, incremental, undramatic. Which shows that Emily Layden knows her way around more than just a posh girls' school.Edited to add: I forgot to mention how much I love the title: "All Girls" because it is an all-girls' school, yes, but also "All Girls" in the sense of the #yesallwomen hashtag; the multi-POV nature of the book addresses this as well, showing the diverse ways that all young women are affected, directly or indirectly, by the inherent inequities of sexual agency in our culture.
3712032279	Emily Layden's incredible debut novel 'All Girls' is a gripping and nuanced examination of the treatment of young women in modern society, presented using the backdrop of Atwater, a prestigious boarding school for girls. On the first day of school, signs are posted along all routes into the grounds claiming 'A rapist works here', immediately forcing parents and students alike to question how much they truly know about their beloved teachers and the wider school community. This mysterious vigilante continues to expose truths to the school community as we follow the characters across the academic year, marred by an allegation of rape against a current staff member dating 20 years ago back to 1995.The story is skilfully presented almost as a series of vignettes, each chapter focused on a different student and their experiences as a young woman learning about the world. Despite an aura of privilege around this private school, each girl is battling their own demons: Layden asserts the message that this school prepares the girls for bright and successful academic futures but examines whether really know about how to handle themselves physically, emotionally and know what it is to be sexually in control of their own body. Chloe's chapter was particularly affecting driving this message home for the reader.The weighty topics are difficult at times but the plea to educators to safeguard their students' mental wellbeing as carefully as their academic prowess is crafted in every characters' story. Some characters resonated with me more than others but each one revealed a new layer of intrigue about life in this educational establishment steeped in wealth and tradition, the façade never quite holding up however hard the school administration try to ignore the allegations plaguing their faculty.Layden has crafted a hard-hitting and affecting novel with 'All Girls'. 5 stars.Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher who provided an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.
3795764525	Originally posted on You Have Your Hands FullBooks that take place at a boarding school are my favorite, so needless to say, I was very excited about the opportunity to read All Girls. As the prestigious Atwater School prepares to welcome its students back for a new school year, they encounter an unexpected surprise: signboards along the local roads, except instead of presenting a jovial message like the Burma Shave ads of almost a century ago, they announce that the school is harboring a rapist. Naturally, this sends shockwaves through the entire Atwater community. Rather than presenting one girl’s experience at school like Sittenfeld’s Prep, this book presents a cohesive narrative of the school year through the eyes of a series of girls. While the scandal—a student from 25 years ago has accused an unnamed male faculty member of coercing her into a sexual relationship when she was a senior—is always in the background, the main themes are much more about American girlhood than this particular scandal. The students are from different cultural and socio-economic backgrounds; they also have different interests, presenting the breadth of the student body at a place like Atwater. It is difficult to pick a “favorite” perspective because each of the girls had something interesting to offer. One aspect that I found interesting was that even though the narration unfolds via the third person, Layden still manages to infuse a sense of unreliability; for various reasons, the girls are not revealing the whole picture. I especially enjoyed this book because the fictional Atwater School is located in the same cozy corner of my own alma mater, where I spent a postgraduate year after high school. Furthermore, I am also an alumna of an all-girls school, so I appreciated both the camaraderie of the students and their appreciation for Atwater’s traditions. I would absolutely recommend All Girls. This is a stunning debut novel; I found myself engrossed in its plot and a little sad when the book ended. This is one of my new favorites, and I know I will be re-reading it soon. I am also looking forward to reading more from Layden in the future. I received an ARC of this book from St. Martin’s/NetGalley
4244968938	"Hemos estado viviendo dentro de la sección del diagrama de Venn donde una cultura que protege a los hombres como él se solapa con otra obsesionada con el prestigio, el estatus y la reputación (...) pasarían años antes de que ella pudiera echar la vista atrás a ese momento y darse cuenta de que el diagrama de Venn tenía un tercer círculo que se solapaba con los otros dos: la porción de una cultura que solo le exige una y otra vez a las chicas mientras, durante todo ese tiempo, se niega a reconocerlas como personas completas"Este libro no trata solo de una violación cometida en un internado femenino elitista de Nueva Inglaterra, en absoluto.Más bien trata sobre Lauren, Macy, Louisa, Chloe, Celeste, Abby, Sloane, Emma y Bryce; nueve voces de chicas que no terminan de encajar en Atwater, que no terminan de encajar con lo que el mundo espera de ellas.Chicas llenas de vulnerabilidad, llenas de luz y también de oscuridad; chicas de las que nadie quiere oir hablar o escuchar, chicas reales como yo o como tú cuando leas esta reseña, chicas a las que Emily Layden otorga voz en este magnifico libro que habla sobre la crudeza que es en realidad ser una chica.El retrato más descarnado que he leído sobre la adolescencia, sobre ser una chica, sobre convertirse en mujer, sobre el desencanto y la indefensión que se siente al descubrir el desfigurado e hipócrita mundo de los adultos.Recomiendo también estos libros que van en la misma línea que el de Layden y que a mí me han hecho reflexionar mucho: - Memoria de chica de Annie Ernaux- Como se hace una chica de Caitlin Moran- Las vírgenes suicidas de Jeffrey Eugenides- La campana de cristal de Sylvia Plath
3945827975	There's something to be said for women's-only spaces, and this book periodically touches base with that idea like a refrain numerous times (starting from the title itself). It's a nuanced coming-of-age narrative that systematically puts identity-markers like class, race, neurotypicality and sexual orientation under the microscope,, all of which is interrogated from the one constant vantage-point of gender. Layden gives it to us from the standpoint of nine young women in an All-girls New England prep school, in the process of consolidating their view of the world that regularly inundates them with contrary messages about what womanhood is supposed to look like; what is alright and how much, yada yada. What I find most gratifying to read, however, is the tender portrayal of the shifting-sands nature of consent, how amorphous it can sometimes be, for all that we tend to think of it in terms of concrete binaries. The book paralleled my undergrad experience in a women's-only institution in so many squillians of ways it was quite frankly stunning. And then there are some beautifully-articulated epiphanies - my favourite is hands-down this one:"...Olivia realizes that neither of them will miss Atwater, not exactly. Instead what they’ll feel is a very particular kind of ache, one that will spasm at random intervals—in the shower, on a bad date, in the middle of a college seminar—and when it does they’ll know: this is the longing you feel for a place that’s become a part of you. This is the yearning you carry when you never really leave."
3800312361	I like the concept of this book, but I'm not sold on the execution. Each chapter is told from the perspective of a different student at a boarding school. And between each chapter is either an administrative email or news article (sometimes both). I think maybe it's trying too hard with formatting - between the shifting perspectives, emails, and articles - and it left little room for me to fully invest in every character. There were probably 3-4 girls I felt invested in, either because their characters were the strongest or their story/history most in depth. Otherwise, they all kind of mixed together and couldn't remember who was who.I do like the honesty of the girls' individual situations. They aren't all wrapped up in a pretty bow. Some of them go through experiences that are painful and will stick with them forever and part of me is wishing it didn't happen to them, but the part of me who has lived similar experiences feels so seen.I also didn't feel like there was any resolution at the end. Particularly to the former student's accusation of rape toward one of the male teachers, which the book centers around. Things happen as a result, but I ended the book without any feeling of closure. I can see how this might be intentional - is there ever really closure when it comes to sexual assault? Is there ever really hard change after something like this comes to light? - but I can't tell if it is I could totally see this as a TV show and think maybe the concept could be better executed that way. And I'm really hoping it happens cuz I'd love to see it.
3969421856	In a time of women, why is the word “girl” so popular? And so many books! There is Gone Girl, which was a fine whodoneit. Girl on a Train aroused some Rear Window feelings and kept its honesty. Then there’s the rest. The Girls, which makes one ask how a writer can create such a dull lifeless book out of the Mansons. The Yonahlossee Riding Camp for Girls is a stutter step without focus, Girl A, which should have been better. And The Girl in the Red Coat by Kate Hamer Then you also have the pile on and beat it to death of My Dark Vanessa, which is reminiscent of Karate Kid XIV. Before we sweep it all up and disappear into a post-Trump world, we have to contend with Emily Layden’s All Girls.The initial surface of Layden’s messy novel centers on a supposed rape of a student some fifteen years previously at a prestigious girls prep school and the administrators sweeping a nascent scandal under the rug. Buy it or not. We quickly move away from this unresolved (and unresolvable) plot device to write about the quirky coming of age of a dozen or so very privileged girls and the fun times to be had when you are above almost all of the remainder of humanity. Every page resonate with “Oh, you crazy kid, and aren’t we special?”In the old freak shows, there was frequently a WHATISIT? Likewise, one can apply that here as well. YA? Sexual identity? Just a mess of bad writing? This is a multiple choice question and all options are correct. Here we have the epitome of an “I’ve got an idea” novel gone horrendously sour.
3899691280	I was intrigued by this novel for the title alone.All Girls.Having attended a same sex school myself during my teen years, I suppose I had predetermined what I thought this novel would be about, how it would possibly be presented.But Emily Layden managed to I guess startle me, and that was a very good thing. Having expected a certain type of story what I got was something so much better. A sex scandal seems to be at the centre of this tale but surrounding it is was an abundance of other secrets and lies.Told over the course of a school year, the setting, a prestigious New England boarding school but this isn't some simple teenage coming of age story. What we are instead caught up in, is something much darker, much grittier.Told from varying points of view, different students providing us with an outlook of just what it is like to be a girl, to mature in quite a diverse environment. The pressures of growing up, to conform to how society deems acceptable. The opportunity to gain a piece of independence whilst at the same time remaining under the control of adults who think they know best.This is an intelligent tale, one that slowly simmers with each turn of the page. The wants and desires of these fairly privileged young women pitted against those outdated rules and regulations to be which they are judged against.All Girls is a refreshing novel, with not one but many protagonists who's experiences all felt real and raw. This is a story that I feel holds appeal to all ages.
3470591108	I was excited to read All Girls as the plot sounded interesting and powerful having taught teenagers. Unfortunately for me it fell flat. This story takes place at Atwater Academy, an elite all girl boarding school in Connecticut, and told by nine girls points of view over the course of a year. The beginning of the book sets the theme with a scandle accusing rape by a teacher from a former student. As students with their families arrive for a new school year, there are many signs stating “A Rapist Works Here” all along the road leading up to the school. The school fails to answer inquities and wants it silenced.At times, I had a hard time keeping track of which student I was reading about. I would have prefered that there weren't so many characters in this story and more focus on a few girls. I enjoy investing on the characters and in this book I couldn't. The good part of this book was that it felt believable and knowing teenagers I could picture them acting the way they did in this story. I also could see a school responding the way they did in this story about sexual misconduct.The story is the point of view of all the girls experiences—eating disorders, their insights, harrassment, cruelty—which never quite come to a conclusion. I found it difficult to keep track of all the characters causing me to lose focus. It just wasn't for me. I do appreciate the author's message of this story. It will remain with me for quite a while.Thank you St. Martin's Press for the advanced readers copy of this book for my honest opinion.
3821246526	Okay, wow, what a read! I hadn’t heard much about All Girls prior to last month, but it feels like fate that I got a proof copy, because it turns out it’s just my kind of book.All Girls by Emily Layden is published by @johnmurrays in hardback this month - 18th February to be precise. Set in an elite all-girl boarding school in America, and inspired by Layden’s own experience teaching in such schools, it covers a year in the life of Atwater students, following allegations of sexual misconduct on campus. When the news breaks—in a series of guerrilla billboards posted on the road leading to the school—on the first day of term, the faculty are desperate to brush it off, the students are confused, and the parents are concerned. Told from multiple POVs, each chapter reads like a short story, diving into the life of one student, exploring the multitudes contained within teenage girls. Each student’s story is set against the undercurrent of the sexual assault allegations, mixed in with the traditions and rules held up by the school. Each girl feels the pressure of being an Atwater student differently, and each one has a different experience with consent and agency. It makes for a fascinating, relatable read–with issues and emotions that every woman can recognise. Layden writes each character with depth and personality and empathy, to the extent that they feel like honest-to-god real people. If you told me this was a Three Women/Narrative non-fiction scenario, I’d believe you. It reminded me of Nothing Can Hurt You by Nicola Maye Goldberg with the interconnected multiple POVs, and it’s a definite for lovers of academic settings. Thank you @johnmurrays for the review copy. It’s an astounding debut that’s going to sit on the forever shelf.(And I’ve just seen it’s already been optioned by HBO, so, night made.)
3811959889	All Girls is a debut novel, set in a New England boarding school and told from the viewpoints of a range of different girls amidst the revelation of a historic scandal that the school administration wants silenced. While I think the plot for this book was promising and powerful, I unfortunately didn’t enjoy it as much as I was hoping to. There were a few gripping and thought-provoking moments throughout the story and some specific parts that really resonated with me however my main issue is that there were just too many characters for me to be fully engaged and this caused me to lose focus. I do appreciate that the author was portraying the contrasting insights of the various girls and that this was meant to add depth and conflicting opinions to the plot, which I think it did here and there, but overall I just felt a bit lost at times with who the chapters were relating to - there were so many different girls’ names mentioned that I couldn’t remember who was who.It was difficult for me to be invested in any of the characters, which is something I like to feel in any book, because the viewpoints flicked from one girl to the next so frequently. However although I didn’t absolutely love it, I do appreciate the ultimate message of the story and think it’s an important one to take away after reading it.Thank you to NetGalley and John Murray Press for an advanced copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
3868254659	Fellow boarding school novel fans - this is definitely one to add to your TBR! Smart and engrossing.Atwater is an all-girls boarding school with a good reputation when a scandal changes everything - an ex-pupil has accused the school of keeping on and protecting a male teacher who raped her. Rather than a singular focus on this alleged crime, we get to explore the way it impacts this year’s students by moving through various characters - each chapter brings a new student’s perspective, and each of these students is unique and offers something different to the novel. I loved the way the author gives these young girls credit - rather than show them as ditzy teens occupied with trivial matters, she shows them as fierce young women, full of insightful observations and awareness of the world around them. Whilst the rape allegations are the thread that ties each chapter together, each student’s story takes on a meaning of its own - although plenty of them do still revolve around the discovery of their sexuality and the fear that comes with it.Within this story there’s also poignant commentary on race, family, friendship, sexuality, eating disorders and mental health - things which can feel so much harder to navigate at that age. The author handles these subjects with great sensitivity and intelligence, and has created a group of progressive and strong young female characters who I found totally compelling - mostly because of the way they behave towards each other, with respect and an open-mindedness which isn’t usually assigned to teenage girls living together! Whilst the scandal really became a part of the background for me, each chapter is broken up with official correspondence from the school responding to the allegations and investigation, so we do also see the contrast of the way the school is handling it from their official point of view vs. the point of view of the young girls. But the real beauty of this book for me was in each individual experience and how interesting each of the girls was - this is almost an ode to teenage girls and just how brilliant they can be.
3721023044	Thank you, NetGalley, St. Martin's Press, and Emily Layden for the ARC in exchange for an honest review.I have always had a penchant for books and stories set in girls' boarding schools, from the Enid Blyton books of my childhood, my mother's stories about her time in English boarding schools, to "Dark Vanessa" and now "All Girls" by Emily Layton. From the description of this book, I had assumed it would be more of an intense mystery, like "Dark Vanessa" and there was somewhat of a mystery, but it was more of a compilation of overlapping stories about a year at a fictional boarding school told from the perspectives of 9 students. The story was set during a time period in which a sexual abuse case that took place 20 years ago had again become an issue in not only in the school but also in the community of alumni and neighboring town.There were many issues addressed in the stories of these girls, including eating disorders, issues with sexuality, parental expectations, bullying, and sexual harassment. The differences between how the sexual abuse case in question had been handled two years ago vs how it was handled twenty years later in the time of "Me Too" were described beautifully. I enjoyed that the author included some glimpses into the future for the characters, and would love to read more about them!Once I let go of my idea that this was going to be a story about one particular student/group of students and I understood the format, I really enjoyed the book .
4490267429	The description of this book makes a lot of promises that the book doesn’t deliver. I don’t feel like the girls discover their voices, mostly because they’re silenced and then just seem to give up. And the girl that IS trying to make a difference is anonymous until the end. I think the author took on too much: this either needed to be a coming of age story, or a story focused around a sexual assault. The actual process of the accusation and investigation is told in short blips between chapters, mostly in email format. There’s no justice, there’s no consequences, and maybe it’s supposed to mirror real life. In that regard, I guess it’s accurate. But I wanted more.The book also promises unforgettable characters and I disagree. Each girl gets their own section and is barely mentioned again as the book moves on. A lot of what we learn about the girls is filler. The narrative moves from the present to the past to the future all within two pages. The writing bothered me, too. There was SO MANY em dashes that I was going crazy. The information inserted was so lengthy and drawn out that I had to keep going back to the beginning before the dash to remember what I was reading.I skimmed the last 50 pages because I couldn’t have cared less.
