3158620426	I love the books bring out so many feeling you’ve bottled up inside. I felt fear, grief, sadness and I also get confused, wanted to cry but some parts I really sat on the edge of my couch. The most beautiful thing about the book is realistic, honest but also genuine story-telling. This is psychological overwhelming, powerful, intense, thought-provoking, riveting reading about a girl’s search for the answers behind the suicide of her brother. The family’s grieving process and enduring the aftermath of losing a child is one of the excruciatingly painful experience. The guilt, the unanswered questions, what ifs, what could be done-s are gnarling inside them. They want to move on but they cannot. They want their pain subside but it never disappears completely. Cady decides to attend Harvard for her education as like her brother Eric did before he was ending his life. As soon as Cady starts digging up and learning more about from his past, she finds herself at the point of no return. So many twists that we cannot see it coming and surprises are thrown into our laps. This book is a family’s dealing with a loved one’s death, Cady’s questioning herself about the thin line between madness and reality because she finds herself dealing with illusions, hearing voices, fighting with paranoia and invisible enemies so does she follow the same path with her brother? Will her faith be the same with him? It’s intriguing, isn’t it? This book hooks you from the beginning with its riveting, interesting, mind blowing writing. So do you want to know what will happen next? You know the drill: grab it, flip the pages and get lost in words! I enjoyed this reading and thanks to publishing company for putting this amazing author on my radar!Special thanks to NetGalley and Random House for sharing this incredible ARC with me in exchange my honest review!bloginstagramfacebooktwitter
3368140780	for a debut, this is pretty dang commendable. there was a point where i wondered if the author had bit off more than she could chew, perhaps she was being a little too ambitious, but i was pleasantly surprised that everything came together nicely.this story tackles a lot of different topics - first year of college experiences, gaining independence, mental health, navigating family relationships, solving mysteries, death and grief, learning history, diving into the paranormal, and conspiracy. like i said, there was a point where i thought it was just too much for one story. but by the end, i was satisfied with how everything tied together, supported each other, and was resolved. i honestly dont know who i would recommend this to because there is just so much going on. i actually wouldnt even classify this as a mystery/thriller, like GR does. if anything, i feel like this falls under general contemporary fiction? i dunno. so if the synopsis sounds good to you, then i suggest picking it up! lol.↠ 3.5 stars
3209228081	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | “It’s supposed to be a time when you’re about to embark on your adult life, but for many young people, that springboard looks more like a precipice.”Ghosts of Harvard is a patchwork of a novel. While the summary seems to promise more of thriller/academia type of book (I personally would not recommend this to those who enjoy campus novels or dark academia), what we do get is a mishmash of genres and storylines: to start with we have a moving family drama that examines the realities of caring for someone with a mental illness, then we head into the supernatural combined with the type of amateur investigation that is all the rage in domestic thrillers (someone you know has done something bad), before culminating in a melodramatic final act.Francesca Serritella strikingly renders the setting of Harvard. Sadly however her protagonist's investigation into her brother's time there takes the centre-stage, so that Cadence's studies and interactions with other students receive limited attention only. Nevertheless Serritella certainly knows Harvard, and she demonstrates her knowledge of its history, architecture, and traditions in a very compelling and evocative way.After her brother's suicide Cadence is obviously overwhelmed. Eric was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia while studying at Harvard so Cadence does feel to a certain extent haunted. Hoping that being at Harvard will somehow bring her closer to her brother, she soon begins to suspect that her brother was hiding something. As she becomes obsessed with her brother's past, she begins to hear 'voices'. What follows is a story that has the trappings of most domestic thrillers, the only difference being the academic backdrop.The third person narration distances us from Cadence, so that much of her personality remains unseen. We know of her troubled relationship with her mother but we never truly delve into Cadence’s sense of self. She makes many nonsensical decisions for 'plot' reasons, and I can't say that she ever did or said anything remotely remarkable or moving. Perhaps I would have sympathised more with her if she had at any point had an introspective moment. She briefly questions herself only when she's worried that the voices she's hearing are a figment of her imagination or a sign that she too may suffer from schizophrenia. She forms superficial friendships with her roommates and a guy who shares one of her classes, but for the most part she only comes into contact with individuals who are directly connected to her brother and his secret. Speaking of Eric's friends, it was weird that Cadence only speaks to his best friend once. Although Cadence grows close to one of her brother's peers, I never believed that she cared for the ‘living’ people she encounters at Harvard. She becomes somewhat chummy with the three ghosts who keep talking to her in her head, and who unsurprisingly help her in her investigation.Throughout the course of Cadence's 'investigation' we get snippets from her past that focus on her family life and her bond with Eric. These were easily my favourite parts of the novel. These scenes, although painful, possessed a genuine quality that made them much more poignant that the ones that take place at Harvard.“Simple narratives were easier to tell, to teach, to understand, to remember. The lie endures for generations, while the truth dies with its victims. But what were the consequences?”Serritella's writing was absorbing and I generally enjoyed her reflections on family, mental health, grief, and Harvard’s history.While part of me was happy that the novel didn't drag on the 'are the voice real or not', ultimately I wasn't all that taken by the novel's execution: it veers into exaggerated territories that are punctuated by flashy twists. What could have been a compassionate exploration of grief and of loving someone who suffers from a mental illness is weighed down by unnecessary thriller-esque melodrama. The supernatural element would have been a lot more 'haunting' if it hadn't been so cheesily predictable. While I appreciated the novel's commentary on academia/educational institutions, and the nuanced portrayal of Eric's mental illness as well as the realistic depiction of the stigma and discrimination against mental health, I was underwhelmed by the storyline and finale. Specific plot points/scenes that were unconvincing/clichéd:➜ The prologue. I'm tired of these prologues that 'tease' a possible death that is to come. The novel's first chapters were compelling enough that they did not require such a gimmicky opening.➜ Cadence's first interaction with her roommate was jarring: “I’m Ranjoo, do you hate me already?”“Only for those abs.” Who says that? Maybe if we had a better grasp of Cadence's personality I could have believed that she would say something alongs these lines.➜ (view spoiler)[A cashier who works at the Science Center food court recognises Cadence: “You gotta brother who goes here, don’t you! […] The sushi, the total discombobulation, just like him. […] But the red hair’s the giveaway. You’re a dead ringer.” Yet the cashier doesn't know that Eric is death...which is weird since he committed suicide on campus, and later on we are told that everyone who works/studies there was aware of the death of a student. (hide spoiler)]➜ Nikos. (view spoiler)[Eric's alleged friend. From his first appearance I knew his 'game'. Why do characters with British accents or Greek ancestry have to be such stereotypes?! Cadence is supposed to be a smart girl and yet she doesn't pick up on Niko's questionable behaviour/responses: “And that was a great game, you know, really close, that’s how I like it, I like the win to mean something.” And he says this before he's 'unmasked'. Also I tend to dislike it when one character is made into a psychopath of sorts who says villainy stuff like: “Since my freshman year, beating Eric Archer was my raison d’être”. Good God. (hide spoiler)]➜ The ghosts. (view spoiler)[I'm not a fan of 'let's explain the supernatural with fake science', and I didn't buy the Cadence's explanation behind the voices from the past 'phenomena'. Why Cadence of all people should hear them? And why these three ghosts? The whole ghost-storyline was very 'quid-pro-quo' (the ghosts help Cadence, Cadence helps the ghosts). And don't even get me started on the weird romance (if we can call it that?) that Cadence develops with that one ghost. That sex scene seemed more appropriated to Ghost (1990). (hide spoiler)]➜ Prokop. (view spoiler)[She's Russian so she just had to be a cold-hearted manipulative spy. And what was the deal with this 'spy' storyline? It felt so out of place. (hide spoiler)]➜ Eric. (view spoiler)[While I generally found him to be one of the more realistic characters, I was worried that his mental illness would also be chalked up to the ghosts (thankfully it wasn't). Still it seemed weird that Cadence wouldn't wonder whether he also heard ghosts (after all she is), especially after she discovers that his advisor was a spy who was quite likely keeping tabs on him (aggravating his paranoia). (hide spoiler)]➜ The chapters would often end on these would be cliffhangers.(view spoiler)[ Such as when a taxi barrels towards Cadence or when Cadence discovers that her mother was with Eric on the night he died. (hide spoiler)]➜ Lee. (view spoiler)[How realistic was it that Cadence's first guess about the identity of the person behind the fake FB account was spot on? She had very little proof but is adamant of Lee's guilt. (hide spoiler)]➜ The epilogue (view spoiler)[tried to cram too much of Cadence's life after the events of the novel. We suddenly read about all of these friends she has...and I just did not care for them (or her). (hide spoiler)]All in all I can't say that I disliked Ghosts of Harvard but there were many elements within the narrative that lessened my overall reading experience and opinion of the book.Read more reviews on my blog / / / View all my reviews on Goodreads
3377262621	To enjoy “Ghosts of Harvard” by Francesca Serritella, one must have an interest in spirits aka ghosts. I was a huge fan of the TV series “Ghost Whisperer” and this is in the same vein. Basically, it’s not realistic fiction; beyond the ghost factor, we have a plucky Harvard Freshman who sleuths her way, by ignoring classes and classwork. Perhaps the setting should have been a third-rate university. However, there is a reason that author Serritella chose Harvard to tell her tale, and she provides that information in her Author’s Note.Basically, Cady, our intrepid protagonist, enrolls in Harvard to find out why her beloved schizophrenic brother, Eric, killed himself. Eric was a genius but was a noncompliant patient with a history of going off his medications. Cady is determined to discover what led Eric to commit suicide.While on her quest, Cady begins to hear voices in her mind. These voices are spirits who are trapped in Harvard. Each spirit either went to school at Harvard or worked there. Serritella has political reasons to use her spirits.In a short period, Cady unravels some secrets of her brother. She follows clues she unearthed. It’s preposterous that Cady accomplished all that she did in about a month’s time, while still attending school. Again, it’s not realistic fiction.What Serritella does well is show how mental illness impacts a family. Add suicide to that illness, and families fall apart. Also, I’m a huge fan of Author’s Notes and she does a great job explaining her use of the ghosts.This story is billed as a thriller, which it does build up to be at the last third of the story. There were a couple of obvious clues that Cady missed; however, Serritella threw in a couple of last-minute plot twists that made the read interesting.It’s a “so-so” read. I cannot say I’d recommend it. I listened to the audio of the story, performed by Karissa Vacker. Vacker is fantastic with her wide range of voices.
3213330686	Now he has departed from this strange world a little ahead of me. That means nothing. People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion. 3.5 starsA long-time fan of Lisa Scottoline, I was very excited to see her daughter, Francesca Serritella, had also written a novel...and the synopsis sounded amazing. I was thrilled when the publisher sent me a copy. Ghosts of Harvard follows the story of Cady as she traverses the Harvard campus during her freshman year, and attempts to discover why her brother committed suicide there the previous spring. This novel is beautifully written and incredibly well-researched. I was amazed by the amount of investigating Serritella did to make things factually relevant. It was truly impressive. A Harvard alum, she had a keen insight into the workings of the Ivy League institution, which was fascinating. I found myself looking up images of the buildings and places she described. Having said that, this book was far too long, a bit repetitive, and I'm not entirely sure the "ghost" stories really worked. I found them to be a distraction...and was disappointed when their appearance was never actually explained. Overall, I'd say this is a better than average debut novel, but very slow-burning. Available TOMORROW in the United States. **My sincere thanks to the publisher for my review copy.
3360293837	I received a copy of this book from the publisher (Random House) and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Ghosts of Harvard completely blew me away. At its core, it houses such a poignant window into mental illness and the victims it leaves behind when those struggling with it take their own lives. The portrayal of grief is brutal and beautiful and real. And yet this story is so much more than that. As she explores the Harvard campus on which her brother took his own life, Cady is faced with a plethora of mysteries. While her brother’s last days consume her from the start, she also finds herself digging into the university’s past as she grapples with fear over her own future. Ghosts of Harvard is a brilliant and seamless bridging of so many ideas and genres. I am in awe of how much research went into the writing of this book, and how Serritella was able to convey so much without a single aspect feeling forced. She struck a perfect balance in so many ways, and she truly gave the world a gift through the publication of this novel.“Then where’s the room for a leap of faith? Just because you can’t explain something doesn’t make it untrue.”Is there anything more terrifying that the fear of madness? The author does a brilliant job at portraying that fear in Cady. While she is compelled to investigate her brother’s suicide and discover what drove him during his last days, she is also fighting a rising terror that she is schizophrenic, as well. Her reactions are wholly believable without being either overly dramatic or unconvincingly nonchalant. Watching her spiral over the course of her investigation was disturbing and tense and filled me with a compassion for her that I find rarely invoked by fictional characters. Cady felt so real to me. She’s a bright girl who always lived in her brother’s shadow, and she doesn’t know how to do anything but follow in his footsteps. Cady is also one of the most internally aware and honest characters I’ve come across. She asks herself hard questions and tries her best to answer them, even when it’s impossible. She truly struggles to not only understand the brother who left her, but to learn who she is as a person, and I found this journey enthralling.“The say that fate is written in the stars, but the irony is that stars don’t project the future, they reflect the past… I like to think [the people we’ve lost] are like the stars. Their light hasn’t gone out. Candlelight goes out. But something as bright as a star, as a soul, that light moves on.”This is a novel of obsession. Cady is completely obsessed with learning all she can about her brother’s last year of life, and finding any little excuse she can grasp that might have finally pushed him over the edge into suicide. She is so consumed by this need for information that she begins seeing conspiracies in every shadow. How much of this need is madness worming its way into her own mind, and how much is actually real? And how can she maintain her grasp on reality, and her new life on an incredibly prestigious and difficult campus when she’s so wrapped up in the past?“But time was two-faced. Minutes that ticks by like any other were the moments that changed a life forever, yet revealed themselves too late.”Then there are the ghosts. The voices that Cady begins hearing in her head are one of the most fascinating elements of this novel. Are they an indicator that she is spiraling into madness? Are they supernatural phenomena? Or can they be explained by weird science along the lines of that explored in Blake Crouch’s most recent novels? All three possibilities were deftly juggled in a way that never tipped the author’s hand, but also didn’t feel frustratingly vague. There was one reveal in this ghostly aspect of the book that literally elicited a physiological response from me. With one word, or rather, one name, I found myself covered from shin to eyebrow with chills. It was a powerful moment.“Do we all pick only the best snapshots to remember in our mental scrapbooks and throw away the bad? Perhaps all photo albums should bear the subtitle The Past—The Way You Want to Remember It.”I’m a sucker for any novel revolving around or set within academia. Any school story is immediately appealing to me. Very few real-life schools are more well known than Harvard, so I was excited to pick up this book merely on the basis of the title. Thankfully, the school setting was truly utilized here, and the school itself became a very important character in its own right. The history of the school is fascinating, and I learned so much over the course of reading Ghosts of Harvard. And yet I never felt like Serritella was being too heavy-handed in her conveyance of this history, but instead balanced it very well against every other element of the story.“History is never as simple a narrative as we write in books.”Some people have expressed a frustration with the slow pacing of the book. I felt that pacing was actually very well maintained. Yes, the story meanders. But it’s meant to! Because we are experiencing Cady’s revelations alongside her, I felt that the pace of the story emphasized the time and care she as a character was putting into her hunt for answers. Her flashbacks were meted out in exactly the right amount. I never felt myself drowning in backstory, but was instead excited to see more of Cady’s past and how it had shaped her. I found the rhythm of the novel captivating. I also found the book far more unpredictable than I would have expected, which was a welcome surprise. This is a story that definitely keeps you on your toes.“She noticed how easy it was to edit someone’s past so that all the pieces of a person fit neatly together… The lie endures for generations, while the truth dies with its victims. But what were the consequences?”Probably my favorite element of this book was the philosophical bent to the writing. Serritella has a beautiful way with words, and I heavily annotated my copy. Not only does she write beautifully, she writes deeply. There was so much philosophical depth to this book. I was prompted to really think and self-evaluate over the course of the book. Not only was I touched by Cady’s story, I was actually impacted by it in a way that I truly believe will stick with me.“Adventure is only possible if you don’t spoil the ending.”Much like the university after which it is named, Ghosts of Harvard contains multitudes. This book is a campus mystery, a coming of age story, a scientific exploration of mental illness, a tale of espionage, a moving historical account, a romance, an esoteric dive into poetry and philosophy and faith and prejudice and a family drama. While this mingling could have led to a bloated and unpalatable slough, all of these elements were instead woven together with a level of grace and care that is truly rare. It was everything I hoped it would be and more, and I will be doing my best to get it into as many hands as I can. It’s a book that will haunt me, and I gladly welcome it.You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.
3291300476	I think this novel could be described as a literary paranormal mystery. Part of the mystery is whether it’s paranormal or if Cadence (Cady) has schizophrenia like her older brother, who committed suicide at Harvard, the school she is now attending as a freshman. Up until his diagnosis, Eric was Cady’s best friend. But the last two years of his life were tough, even when he was on his meds, which he kept not taking. Cady blames herself for his death. The “if onlys” keep cycling through her mind. She has his notebook with his cryptic notes. Eric used to make puzzles like this for her to decode, and she thinks if she can decode this, she’ll have some understanding of why he jumped.So Cady has all the stress of grieving a brother who died just months earlier mixed with the anxiety of being a new student away from home in the dorms at the most prestigious school in the country combined with her decision to uncover a mystery. Along the way she’s helped by ghosts of Harvard. Points of originality to the author. Parts were really beautifully written. Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book, which RELEASES MAY 5, 2020.
3140812836	I could not put this novel down and read for 2 days straight only taking “breaks” to sleep and eat. Absolutely outstanding and a novel that will stay with me FOREVER!!!Francesca Serritella, is a local celebrity to me. She and her Mother, Lisa Scottoline, have delighted readers with their “chick wit” books and columns. Francesca is real, thoughtful, open and raw. I have gotten the chance to meet her and have been awaiting the arrival of this book for years. I must say IT WAS WORTH THE WAIT.GHOSTS OF HARVARD transcends genre classification. It is a psychological thriller with twists and turns, it is emotional suspense with heavy layered family drama, characters that are multi dimensional and real, it is part ghost story full of haunting a and it is so beautifully written that it takes on a lyrical aspect. While reading, I felt myself walking the scenic campus of Harvard, got lost in the historical buildings and beauty of Cambridge. Throughout reading some of the scenes drove me to tears and were so beautifully written that I had to stop reading to be able to process fully and savor what I had just read. I loved the character of Cady. I felt she was so beautifully written and I wanted to know her. Her naivety as a freshman trying to navigate so many emotions made me connect to her. I loved how open she was with herself but it felt real how closed off she was with others. I admire Francesca so much for not only writing this novel and persevering through the years it took to make her dream of being a novelist a reality, but also for pouring so much emotion onto the page. She did so much research and also put so much of herself into these pages and the vulnerability And the rawness made the novel feel so real.Francesca Serritella has written a novel that I will put in the hands of every reader I see. Fans of Jodi Picoult will love the emotion, fans of Kate Morton, Camille DiMaio and Fiona Davis will love how the setting takes on its on character and fans of Lisa Scottoline will love the twists and turns and Action.Congratulations Francesca! You already had a fan in me from your columns and our personal interactions. You are absolutely amazing. Thanks to the author, Random House and netgalley for an early read. Counting down the days until May 5 when I can share this with so many others!!!
3203932372	First, before anything else, I want to address this important point: This is not a thriller. Not really. This is not a scary ghost story. Not at all. This story is partially a mystery and largely a young woman coming to terms with the grief of losing her brother to suicide. Sadly, this seems to have been promoted all wrong, which may be harmful to the author’s work when certain expectations aren’t met. I thought the first several chapters captured the emotional components of a grieving family incredibly well. The author was very effective with this aspect and had it been the sole focus of the story, I might have enjoyed it a bit more. While I knew this was more of a mystery than a thriller going into it, I did expect a chilling ghost story. The spirits here were more of the Casper variety. That was an unfortunate letdown for me but I still held out hope that I’d find the read worthwhile. I’m not entirely sure how I feel about the way schizophrenia was used in the narrative. It’s a tricky thing, using mental illness as a plot device. Cady was trying to make sense of her brother’s illness and death. It’s logical that she might question her own sanity. And using the whispers of ghosts to help Cady process the details of Eric’s internal struggle is certainly a unique way to tell a story. There were adverse views expressed throughout the book that I felt were realistic and the author did well counteracting harsh, critical perspectives surrounding mental illness. I don’t think the tone was insensitive but I didn’t like some of what came to pass toward the end. Overall, however, I think Ghosts of Harvard handled this topic better than some of the other books I’ve read.One of my biggest issues was that the story felt laden with excessive details. It’s clear that the author is an intelligent woman and had she written a non-fiction book on any of the many topics she addressed in this book, I’ve no doubt they would have been meticulously researched and thoroughly documented. For a fiction story, however, I felt I was given entirely too much information and this took away from the flow and engagement of the actual story.Additionally, while crossover genres can merge well in books, this one seemed like it wanted to be too much of everything. I did not like the way this played out. Since this story is such a slow build, it took a while before I began forming any real opinion about it. Despite realizing that I wasn’t a fan, I was curious and hoped there would be enough redeeming factors to warrant a three star rating from me. Unfortunately, by the time I reached chapter 45, which seemed too far to rationalize a DNF, I knew this was going to be lower rating. Some of the plot deviations were a bit too silly for my tastes. I was clearly not the right reader for this one.The book offers some meaningful tidbits that may be appreciated more by a different reader. It’s a slow burn and the mystery within it was less compelling than what I had hoped for. If you think you’d enjoy benign spirits aiding a young woman’s struggle with overwhelming loss, a plethora of educational facts, family drama, hints of various mysteries, a love story, and a splash of thrill near the end, this might be the book for you!Thank you Random House for my review copy. All opinions are my own.
4981890400	Credit is due, where credit is earned. I am left speechless; however, a quote from one of my favorite movies can describe the power and compelling nature of this amazing read. “It’s not about the car, it’s the driver”, Fast and Furious. Francesca Serritella knows how to keep an audience engaged from the beginning to the end. When you think you know, you have know idea! Thank you Francesca for leaving me on the edge of my seat, craving every page turned and chapter beginning to the very end! I can’t wait for the next one 😊📖🐛🤩!
3772949130	This remarkable fiction debut by Francesca Serritella (who is Lisa Scottoline's daughter and has also written some wonderful non-fiction with her mom) is the story of a young woman who goes Harvard not just for college but to find out why her brilliant older brother took his own life there years earlier. This is both a mysterious thriller and a touching exploration of family and self. Enjoy!
3264573266	This book had promise, but it went south fairly quickly. Cady goes to Harvard to chase the ghost of her brother who had committed suicide there the year prior. Is she spiraling into schizophrenia as her brother did as she uncovers deep secrets? The book was far too slow and flat. Such a shame.....
3302864964	I totally get what Serritella was going for with this novel - a mix of a paranormal ghost story, a psychological, spy thriller, and a coming-of-age college tale. However, I don't think she quite mastered any of them. "Ghosts of Harvard" is from the point of view of Cady, a freshman at Harvard who decides to attend the school despite her schizophrenic older brother committing suicide there the previous year. She starts to hear voices and begins to wonder if she's going to end up just like her brother.Instead of a straightforward exploration of what happens when she hears these voices, the story ends up feeling really muddled and waaaay too long. It was difficult to sense where the story was going or which of the many side characters would actually turn out to be important. I think the setting of Harvard was really interesting and Serritella obviously can describe the college and its surrounding town in great detail. But it got to a point where there was almost too much detail (which I didn't know could be a thing). For example, it seemed superfluous to list the exact cafes, dining halls, dorms, etc. on campus when it didn't feel all that relevant to the story. There were also some sentences that I just couldn't get behind: "The low moon was a gold button on a navy sport coat sky." Huh? Sentences like this one made me feel like Serritella was trying to be too 'writerly' instead of writing the way people actually speak. To tell the truth, I would have loved this book if it had just been a simple ghost story because the historic ghosts were truly the most interesting characters.*Free ARC provided by Netgalley and Random House in exchange for an honest review*
3203866707	Thank you to Goodreads, the author, and Random House for the opportunity to read this book!Warning: Suicide Warning and other possible mental health triggersI am still reeling from reading Ghosts of Harvard by Francesca Serritella. Cady Archer is accepted to Harvard. This should be a time of joy and celebrating accomplishments. However, her acceptance is clouded by the fact that she is still grieving over the death of her older brother. Her brother was also a student at Harvard, the top of the physics department, prepping a project for the Bauer Award until the paranoia set in. He changed so dramatically in a short amount of time and was eventually diagnosed with schizophrenia and commits suicide. Cady attends Harvard to get answers regarding her brother. She gets more than answers, voices guide her on campus, these voices are from actual historical people of the past. Are these voices real, or is she falling down the same path as her brother?“Just because it’s my choice to go doesn’t mean I’m not heartbroken to leave you.”GHOSTS OF HARVARDTears. So. Many. Tears. I feel like my heart was ripped out of my chest. The main theme is grief. Losing a loved one is hard beyond words. The author displays grief in a raw and in an accurate way. Everyone handles grief differently. This is shown is Cady’s family. Her mom holds so much hostility and anger. Her father is distancing himself. He wants to move on and doesn’t know how to move on. Cady wants answers. One of my closest friends lost her only brother, and I witnessed the heartbreak and the desperation to hold onto the memories.Now, there is so much more to this book. In fact, this book has EVERYTHING! I am not kidding. This book goes into mental illness and how frightening it can be for those who suffer from it and how difficult it is for their loved ones. It also has historical elements, ghosts, suspense, romance, mystery, and espionage! Also, the plot twists are insane! The ending was not predictable in the slightest. I was heartbroken when the book ending. I fell in love with the characters. They are relatable and teach why it is so important to have empathy for those around you. You never know what struggles someone is going through.I cannot recommend this book enough. I want to reread it already. The book is lengthy but I found that the pace moved along well and I never felt bored. I became completely addicted. I found out that this is a debut novel that has been 10 years in the making! It releases Tuesday, May 5th, 2020. So be sure to check it out! I rate this book 5 out of 5 stars.
3418078279	Health issues have been numerous the last two weeks and my reading schedule has gone for a toss. Ghosts of Harvard by Francesca Serritella was a wrong choice to read during an already painful week. So fair warning, dear readers, the review would surely reflect my lousy mood. Yes, this has ghosts which is exactly the reason why it went into my TBR but Ghosts of Harvard is primarily a book about being haunted by grief. There is, in fact, a variety of genres vying for attention in this tale. It is a story of heart breaking anguish in losing a loved one, voices of ghosts that is often mistaken as auditory hallucinations, the historical parts that somehow complements the current story, the painful subject of openness and honesty in a family, the peer pressure of doing your absolute best in a top tier college, the overwhelming guilt of having wronged a loved one, each and every subject plays a part in moving the story forward to a climax that adds a layer of mystery and espionage to the end.Cadence Archer is following the footsteps of her much-loved brother who committed suicide in Harvard. Securing an admission and forging friendship with her brother’s friend, Caddy finds it hard to believe that everything that her brother, a genius who suffered from schizophrenia, noted down in his notebook is gibberish. Caddy’s attempts to uncover the truth leads her to path unknown doubting her own sanity as resident ghosts of Harvard makes themselves known to her. The author has brilliantly used the architecture of Harvard in creating a sense of history and old-world charm. The depiction of misery is stark and raw and definitely makes one’s heart bleed. Showing the mother, father and Cady dealing with the process of grief in their own ways was absolutely relatable and left me in tears.Part thriller, part haunting drama about the effects of mental illness and suicide, Ghosts of Harvard should have been a thumping roller coaster ride but the ghosts and their history creates breaks in the story that somehow fails to yield a seamless narration.This review is published in my blog https://rainnbooks.com/, Goodreads, Amazon India and twitter.
3549954205	This book is like a buffet meal, it has a little bit of everything - mystery with paranormal elements, mental illness and family drama! ⁣⁣I love stories with ghosts so this book immediately intrigued me. It ended up being about much more than I expected. It was part murder mystery with a sprinkling of the paranormal but it’s really about grief, family and mental illness. It was honest, real and thought-provoking. ⁣⁣This book was a slow burn but the audio had me entranced. I never found it boring. The mystery aspect was interesting but it was the focus on mental illness, specifically schizophrenia that really caught my attention. The ghosts and how their stories were woven in to the story and Caden’s own struggles with mental health was riveting. I actually wanted more at the end. ⁣⁣I’m glad I gave this one a try. It’s hard to pigeon hole it in one specific genre but if you enjoy mysteries with paranormal elements that focus on family drama then this one is for you! I thoroughly enjoyed the audiobook version. ⁣
3516835719	An accomplished debut, richly imagined and beautifully wrought with all my favorite questions about hauntings, inner and outer.
3172873235	Thank you to Netgalley for providing me with this in exchange for my honest opinion. This book will be available on May fifth.Hmm…where to begin with this book? I rarely give trigger warnings, instead describing books as harsh if they discuss heavier subjects, but in this case I think I need to add a trigger warning. Suicide is an ongoing theme throughout this book. It’s mentioned in the blurb, so it’s not hidden or anything, but if that’s something you don’t want to read about, you might want to skip this review.I actually almost gave up on this book multiple times. Parts of it hit too close to home and brought up feelings from my own mental illness diagnosis (bipolar 1, diagnosed during high school. Fun times). I prefer not to think about that time in my life, so this book was difficult for me.So, why did I finish it? Because Francesca Serritella is an extremely talented author. If she wasn’t, I would have had no problem reading this book. Instead, she made the characters easy to connect to. I felt for Eric as his illness was spoken about. I was heartbroken on his behalf when people felt “embarrassed” by him. I can’t say I understand fully how schizophrenia works, other than that it has some symptoms that overlap with bipolar, but I can absolutely relate to the feelings of loneliness a mental illness diagnosis can carry with it.This book is about Cady (Eric’s sister) and her decision to follow in her deceased brother’s footsteps to discover what led to his death by suicide. She learns that things are much more complicated than she originally thought. He was a paranoid schizophrenic (as well as a brilliant young man with tons of potential: a diagnosis is not an identity), and as he came close to the end of his life, he began to think he was being followed and was in danger. As Cady learns more of who her brother was, she begins to wonder: was he right?At the same time, Cady begins hearing voices that no one else hears. She starts to question whether she might have the same mental illness as her brother. Needless to say, this scares her. What made me sad about this is that she was so afraid to mention her concerns to anyone. Again, the stigma against mental illness rears its ugly head.This book was very well-written, but I would never be able to reread it. And, honestly, I felt that the ending diminished the rest of the book a bit. It felt out of place and took me me out of the story. However, the author wrote a compelling story, even though it was most definitely a harsher one.If you struggle with suicidal ideation, I strongly suggest you skip this book. It is a good one, but ultimately it wasn’t for me.
3312573039	3.75 stars Somehow, I wanted to like this book a lot more than I did. The writing was easy to follow and definitely engaging, and the concept was also an interesting one, but somehow it fell just a little short of that mark that would make me rave about it. Serritella deals with grief and mental illness quite well, but again somehow it just didn't hit that spot of being incredible. I think the plot had a few too many elements going on that weren't fully explored, and then others that were explored at too much length. (view spoiler)[ Some things seemed so obvious - like Nikos being no good, but I really didn't expect Robert to be Robert Oppenheimer (granted I can't say I knew much about his life! (hide spoiler)]
3200873207	Ghosts of Harvard follows the story of Cady trying to piece together what happened in leading to her brothers suicide at Harvard University. The writing was interesting enough but a bit of a slow burn. I do think the book could have been 100 pages less however, I did want to find out what happened so I kept pushing on. I expected more of a thrilling ghost story so I'm a little disappointed but that is just a personal preference and in no way makes this a bad book. I think some of the plot lines that were thrown in seemed random towards the end and didn't really fit with the story such as the actual ghosts and a few other things but I don't want to give that away. I do admire the research Serritella did on Harvard, its history, and mental health. This book makes me want to go back to school and get my Masters degree.. I actually miss being in that setting, who would have ever guessed?Thank you Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with a copy!
3210265929	4 stars--I really liked it. Trigger warnings for suicide and mental health.This starts as a ghost story and ends as a spy novel. For real!OK, that's not REALLY true (though the book has elements of both those genres). It's actually an introspective, quiet novel about mental health and family relations. I really liked the coolness of the narrative voice (such a relief after reading too many first-person novels. Yes, I am biased). The only thing I didn't really like was Cady herself--she's kind of a blank slate who reacts more than acts. However, I appreciate that she grows and changes throughout the book.
3321914573	3.5 rounded to 4 on goodreads! A very unique story. I wish it got to “the point” a bit faster. The last 100 pages were by far my favorite! I also appreciate the truth about Harvard’s past intertwined within the fictional story, as well as the awareness about mental illness.
3535890050	SLOW burn warning!! Ghosts of Harvard by Francesca Serritella is an incredibly thought-provoking look at mental illness, but the pacing is very slow which I know will be a huge turn off for some people. Luckily for me, I love audiobooks and listening to it made it feel not quite so slow. Karissa Vacker was a good narrator, and I had no issues with how she read the book. The audio made me feel more connected to the story and characters, although Serritella's writing did that as well. It was so vivid and compelling, and I know from other reviewers that she did an excellent job with her approach to paranoid schizophrenia and suicide. I really felt for Cady and her family, and so many parts of the story just broke my heart. I have not had much experience with suicide or mental illness with either friends or relatives, but Ghosts of Harvard still resonated with me and was a heartbreaking look at what a family can go through when affected by both. There was also a mystery aspect to the book that I was a huge fan of, and when Cady starts hearing voices things get even more interesting. Serritella did a great job of making the reader wonder if she was experiencing mental illness, or if it was actually happening to her. I ended up doing some Googling afterwards and I feel like it taught me some things I didn't know which I loved.If you enjoy slow burns and literary fiction I would recommend reading Ghosts of Harvard. It's a pretty heavy read but one that leaves you with hope, and Cady was a really great character and viewpoint. If you are a fan of audio I would go that route since to me, it helped with the pacing. Overall this is a well-thought-out novel and I can tell the author is smart and took her time with it.
3267573814	***Thanks to NetGalley for providing me a complimentary copy of GHOSTS OF HARVARD by Francesca Serritella in exchange for my honest review.***4.5 STARSOnly months after Cadence’s schizophrenic brother Eric committed suicide at Harvard, she begins her freshman year at the prestigious university. Soon she begins hearing voices. Wondering if she inherited Eric’s mental illness with auditory hallucinations as a symptom, Cady also considers she’s hearing the purported GHOSTS OF HARVARD others have heard for decades. Cadence also searches for answers about her brother’s last months including his scientific research. Danger lurks nearby, but is that peril in her head or from outside sources? Francesca Serritella’s debut novel follows her humor essays penned with her mother, best selling writer Lisa Scottoline. A talent in her own right, Serritella’s word building is compulsively readable. Though GHOSTS OF HARVARD gets off to a slow start with backstory, after about 20% the pace picked up. I loved Cadence. Her earnestness, kindness and smarts had me rooting for her from page one. I didn’t like her mom one bit and had difficulty seeing her as multidimensional, even while understanding she was mourning her son. Throwing Cady under the bus and canonizing Eric hit too close to home for me. I enjoyed Cadence so much, I imagined seeing her in a sequel.GHOSTS OF HARVARD is the first of what I predict will be many well-written novels by Francesca Serritella.
3565652648	I think the takeaway from this book is that if you are a woman and you’re hot AND smart, then you are also evil?
3497698264	Save yourselves. This book is either poorly written fiction for young adults or poorly written fiction for adults. It is so unsatisfying in every way. There is sex with a ghost. I mean...come on. There's not a likable character in the book. There's not a realistic moment in the book. I admit, I skimmed the last chapter. I had had enough.
4838941337	The concept of this book is actually good but I have to say, the author did way too much and for that, one star. She should've either stuck to the plot of discovering the events that led up to the brother's suicide or explored the ghosts of those who are connected to Harvard. By putting them both together, neither was really given the dedication that it needed in order to come across as authentic or impactful. In terms of the brother plotline, I was able to guess everything about the mystery and then it just became over the top and unbelievable so that could've been scrapped altogether. I actually think the book would've been better if it solely focused on the supernatural/ghost plot. As it stands, I think it was executed poorly (even after reading the author's note which I do think was nice to know). These stories weren't given the proper exploration that they deserved, especially that of the slave and her son and because of that it left a poor taste in my mouth despite the intentions of the author. At one point in the novel, they just fell to the wayside which could seem a bit disrespectful when you really think about the role they played in the main character's narrative. Especially since her supernatural abilities were never explaIned and (view spoiler)[ once she returns to Harvard, she never hears voices from ghosts again (hide spoiler)]. I actually would've preferred this idea to be explored in a series that followed different Harvard students who arrive on campus and are haunted by different ghosts rather than trying to honor 3 stories within one book that also follows a major mystery that is completely separate from the ghosts. That probably would've honored the memories of these people more and felt less weird.
3319720698	*DRUM ROLL FOR MY FAVORITE DEBUT NOVEL OF THE YEAR* I post so many reviews on here, so sometimes it becomes common place to just scroll down to see the rating and like the photo, but if there was ONE book that I could persuade you all into adding to your TBR’s, this would be it. Ghosts of Harvard is special to me and I truly feel like it spoke to my soul- it kind of decoded all the emotions I had regarding mental illness, the past, and grief that I had bottled up all these years and that were suddenly released into the world, as precious as ink on paper. I had NEVER cried so hard while reading a book. As a matter of fact, it felt cathartic, much like an exorcism of buried sorrow. I was not only immersed in the world of Serritella’s characters and her lyrical prose- I was living it. From Cady’s bittersweet college life on campus looking for signs that could lead her to better understand her brother’s schizophrenia and suicide, to her kindness and bravery when it came to the ghosts and the voices inside her, to her own journey of self discovery and healing, I was hooked. This novel transcends genre classifications, as it is timeless and a masterpiece in its own right. This book not only embraced the beauty of the unknown and how the universe has its secrets, but also offered a refreshing and vital approach to mental health, showcasing how grief and loss are meant to be shared in a million different ways, but that it is our memories that ultimately, bind us indefinitely across time. THANK YOU SO MUCH to @randomhouse and @netgalley for this! I honestly can’t thank you enough. And thank you to @fserritella for being transparent and sharing her gift with us.RATING: 5/5 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
3423994647	Normally my first thought would be "what the heck did I just read?" But honestly I couldn't get past the first quarter or so of the book in order to earn the right to say that. I could however go on about the stereotypes - the friends, the Russian, the mother - holy crap, what a Bad Mother shitshow, her name was even Karen - and I gave up when the MC started talking to ghosts. If that's a spoiler, sorry but it should have been marketed as a historical ghost story and maybe have everything else left out. The kicker, for me, was this sentence. Whereas her mother's grief rendered her preternaturally vivified, her father's did the opposite.Seriously. What the hell does that even mean? And what the freaking heck is the opposite of preternaturally vivified? Did the creative writing instructor hand out a Glossary of Big Impressive Words That Will Wow Your Readers? Fire your editor, lady. That sentence sank the ship for me. I skimmed to the end, with which I was PRETERNATURALLY unimpressed. Note to Author: if you had put the Author's Note at the FRONT of the book I might have made the effort to continue reading.
3199375088	This book is a spectacular read. There’s a little bit of everything for people who are drawn to multiple genres, it’s a real gem. The story centers around the Archer family who have a daughter, Cadence “Cady”, who is starting as a freshman at Harvard. Her parents are of mixed feelings about this because they lost their son, Cady’s brother, Erik, who was a junior at Harvard, to suicide the prior spring. Little do her parents know but Cady’s real reason for choosing Harvard isn’t the prestige of this school but the chance to retrace her brother’s footsteps to try to figure out why he decided on suicide. She begins school and very shortly after this, she begins to have experiences that worry her as to the possibility of her following his course. This is a fun campus based novel that delves into mental health issues and how stress of school influences this. It also beautifully addresses the turmoil within a family that comes from the loss of a child. The whole book was a delight but I especially loved some of the twists and reveals and the finale. The ending few pages of this book are some of the most brilliant writing I’ve read this year. If you love a school based story with intrigue, family dynamics and supernatural themes, this is a must read for you. Highly recommend!#GhostsofHarvard #NetGalley # RandomHousePublishing #RandomHouse
3300268150	There's a lot going on here. A schizophrenic older brother committed suicide while he was a student at Harvard. The main character starts to hear voices. Does she too suffer from a mental illness or are they ghosts? Deals with mental illness, suicide, college life and family dynamics with some physics and string theory thrown in. Seemed like two separate stories when wrapped up in the end. A paranormal story and a mystery that don't connect. Copy provided by the Publisher and NetGalley
3547712940	This was certainly not what I expected, it started off and I almost put it down because I thought it was solely going to be about mental illness and suicide, and I was not in the mindset for that at the time. But I kept going and was glad I did. Yes, the above topics are a running theme, and believe me they are heartbreaking and the author does a fantastic job of covering them and doing them justice. As Cady is trying to find out what happened to her brother during his last year at Harvard, she uncovers so many layers and even thinks she starts to hear voices herself that I was absolutely enthralled with this story and had no idea where it was going to go but really started to enjoy it once I got over the pacing.This is billed as a thriller and at times this very much is that, but at other times it is not. The other parts are about Cady finding out who she is, and how by discovering the past she can move on and be the person she is meant to be. And you know, maybe some ghosts from the very distant past also help her get there.I really enjoyed the audiobook for this one. I think it helped me stay engaged. If I’m being honest, I think if I had read the physical copy the slow burn may have been too much. It was worth the journey to get to the end, there were a few twists I did not see coming, and left my jaw dropped open. This one deals with tough subjects — suicide, mental illness, slavery, abuse to name a few, so be prepared for these triggers. It was very well done, I was connected to the characters as well as the ghosts and overall I was not ready for this one to end.
3201383570	Ghosts of Harvard is a paranormal thriller about student Cadence Archer as she navigates the historical campus during her first year. She didn’t choose to go to Harvard solely because of its prestige - it’s also the place where the schizophrenic older brother she idolized committed suicide the year prior. Still full of grief and guilt about the role she may have played in his choice to take his own life, Cady is determined to find out as much information as she can about her brother’s time at Harvard in his final days and months. But then Cady starts hearing voices of people who aren’t there, and are seemingly ghosts from Harvard’s past. Is she schizophrenic too, and will she suffer the same end as her brother?~Early on, this book gave me some vague Ninth House vibes which I was excited about because I absolutely loved that book, but unfortunately, they didn’t last. It was an entertaining read overall and clearly well researched, but the ghost part didn’t work for me. They were a prominent part of the story for most of the book and then all of a sudden, they weren’t anymore. I also struggled to understand what their connection was to the larger mystery of the suicide of Cady’s brother, but standalone, they were interesting. Suspension of disbelief is an obvious requirement of this read because of the ghosts, but there is also that element of an 18-year-old girl conducting an investigation and acting on her own first before even thinking of involving the authorities until after, which becomes a struggle for me in any mystery/thriller that goes that route. Again, this was an overall entertaining read - it just had elements that didn’t work for me as a cohesive narrative. 3.25 stars.I do want to note a cool feature about the audiobook version of this story. Each time one of the ghosts is talking, the voices are distorted, giving them an otherworldly feel, which I think was really smart and fun production choice.
3294408752	What a chilling story! This book was a mystery, ghost-story, and drama all wrapped into one. Thank you so much to Netgalley, Francesca Serritella, and Random House for this amazing ARC! It comes out on May 5 and you should run to pick up your own copy! It’s a long book, but it’s worth the read.This book is about Cady, a girl struggling through her first year at Harvard while dealing with the recent suicide of her brother who also attended. She chose Harvard to be close to him and to figure out why he let his schizophrenia get so bad that he jumped out a second story window. Cady begins to feel the pressure of an ivy league and starts to hear the voices of multiple ghosts around campus. She tries to grapple with what they’re telling her and learn how to help them while fighting the feeling that she is following the same path as her brother. She is worried that the delusions and paranoia she is experiencing can only result the same way. Thoughts: I am a sucker for a good boarding school setting and an ivy league school is the best! Just hearing about Harvard was intriguing, and combined with the plot of ghosts and delusions, the story was everything I wanted. It had a slow start, but once it got going I couldn’t wait to hear what was going on in Cady’s mind. It was interesting hearing about her brother’s schizophrenia and the signs that she may be following a certain path. The book had a lot of interesting plot points and they wove together to form an intriguing story. The ending was great and extremely satisfying. I loved this entire book and the journey it took me on. 5-stars!
3956511413	You should read this book if you like: Campus novels, intrigue, extrasensory abilities, Donnie Darko, Ninth House* * * I've seen a lot of reviews classify Ghosts of Harvard as a thriller, but I'd consider it more a paranormal suspense campus novel. It's definitely got the fun mystery element and immersive atmospheric quality that characterize dark academia reads.The storyline was interesting...even going so far as to include a bit of surface-level romance. I felt like Cady constantly underestimated herself, and while she was super oblivious to blatant character flaws in some of the people she associated herself with, she was also exceptionally observant and intelligent.If you liked Leigh Bardugo's Ninth House, you'll probably also enjoy Ghosts of Harvard—both protagonists attend Ivies and have extrasensory perception of ghosts, which leads to some interesting scenarios. Good stuff!
3601954999	This book is FANTASTIC. It isn't a thriller, though it is atmospheric and suspenseful and has a mystery to it. It is so much more than I expected, and the ending was so deeply satisfying.Full review to come!
3410675511	I kept waiting and waiting. Way toooo long.
3579878820	There’s everything but the kitchen sink in this novel - mystery, supernatural, history, suicide, mental illness, espionage, coming of age, family drama, etc. Trigger warning for a large emphasis on suicide and a scene of attempted sexual assault. The Archer family is still reeling from grief from Eric Archer’s suicide when he was a junior. His recent diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia seemed too much of a difficult obstacle for him to deal with in such an intense environment - but was that what took the life of an immensely talented and intelligent student? His sister, Cady, decides she will follow in her brother’s footsteps at Harvard and begins her freshman year with some trepidation. Will she get some answers around her brother’s death? More importantly, will she succumb to his legacy of mental illness as she begins to hear voices and have troubling episodes? This is a long book and may be too much of a slow burn for some, however, I found the audiobook enjoyable and easy to follow. Random House’s Book Club Kit is also chock full with a map, discussion questions, recipe, playlist, suggested reading about Harvard’s history, true stories on some the ‘ghost’ characters, and recommended eateries. It’s obvious Serritella did quite a bit of research and has credibility as a Harvard graduate herself. She comes by the writing chops honestly as the daughter of Lisa Scottoline.
3300300323	*** Note: I received e-copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks to PRHGlobal for free copy. ***Ghosts of Harvard was powerful and realistic mystery that revolved around Cady dealing with grief and trying to know more about his late brother’s last days at Harvard and getting at root of his illness or something that might have pushed him to the edge. The book was about grief, loss, feelings and emotions of family of schizophrenic patient, suicide and its trauma, fine line between madness and reality, guilt and regrets, obsession, deeper meaning of life, death, grace.I enjoyed history of Harvard, all scientific and academic information, back and forth argument between Cady and prof. Prokop on quantum physics and its correlation with ghosts and schizophrenia, discussion on poetic verses and on mental intuitions. Portrayal of grief, mental illness and its impact on family was written with raw emotions.Overall,Ghosts of Harvard was deep, impactful, powerful, and thought-provoking mystery with great characters, philosophical writing and eye-opening history, and honest and raw representation of grief, loss and mental illness.Read full review on my book blog by following this link - https://booksteacupnreviews.com/2020/...
3331657996	Eric Archer was a standout student at Harvard, until the day he took his own life. Now his sister, Cadence, wants to know why. She has been accepted as a freshman this year, much to her parents’ horror, and is determined to attend. Eric was her idol. They had a relationship as brother and sister that most families would envy. And now he’s gone, leaving a gaping hole in her heart.Cady settles in at Harvard, armed with myriad questions and a blue notebook Eric left behind. Making sense of his scribblings, though, might be impossible. In his last days, he was very sick, a diagnosed schizophrenic. Were these notes the ramblings of a deranged mind, or some ingenious message, one meant for her? Cady struggles to see much other than gibberish.Maybe getting to know some of Eric’s friends, classmates, professors and his roommate will provide valuable clues. These people should have the best handle on who he was and how he approached life on campus. Before long, she meets a handsome, flirtatious student named Nikos. He says that he and Eric were competing for the prestigious Bauer Award until Eric dropped out suddenly. Cady wonders why her brother quit, and pursues Nikos for answers. And if a little romance happens, that wouldn’t be so bad either.College life at Harvard comes with many pressures, and Cady has the added pressure of her brother’s suicide weighing on her. Plus, she must prove to her parents that she made the right decision when she chose Harvard. But when she begins to hear voices, she fears that Eric’s schizophrenia might be her future, too. Maybe she has put herself in the worst possible danger on this campus. However, these voices seem more like the voices of real people, not something her mind is making up. And it doesn’t feel like they want to hurt her. In fact, they help her out in some tricky situations. When Cady delves deeper, she finds actual history on these people, connected to Harvard’s past. Why are they speaking to her, though?Exploring the idea in a roundabout fashion with one of Eric’s professors, Cady formulates the theory that there might be a way the past folds over the present somehow. She never sees the “ghosts,” only hears them, and they exist in their own time while she stays in the present. That doesn’t seem possible, but then people have long had trouble completely grasping the concept of time. Fortunately, Cady’s “friends” lead her to new understandings, steer her away from danger, and aid in her search for the truth about Eric. Sometimes, though, we don’t like the answers we find.GHOSTS OF HARVARD is a stunning debut, an intellectually crafted mystery that addresses suicide and its effect on the “survivors.” This story also takes readers around the stately Harvard campus, one that predates our country, and shows off some of its history --- in truth, a little shocking at points. Francesca Serritella --- a Harvard graduate herself who has written numerous essay collections with her mother, bestselling author Lisa Scottoline --- spent a decade writing this book, the result being a thoroughly enjoyable read and a unique cross-genre experience not to be missed.Reviewed by Kate Ayers
3337016049	“Just because it’s my choice to go doesn’t mean I’m not heartbroken to leave you.”Let’s take a minute to acknowledge this cover. It’s stunning and appealing! I love it! I had first heard some buzz about this book a few months ago when people were thinking it could be a pick for Book of the Month. When it wasn’t a pick, I immediately reserved it at my library and was excited when it was my turn!The story follows Cady as she ventures off to college at the prestigious Harvard, the school where her brother Eric, attended. Cady is searching for answers as to why her brother, who was paranoid schizophrenic, took his own life at the end of his junior year. All she has is one of his old notebooks and as she begins to try to decipher his scribbling and incoherent descriptions she begins to hear voice in her own head. Are these voices real or fake? Will they destroy her? Will she find out what really happened to Eric? This book was pretty incredible for a lot of reasons. It did start a little slow for me but once it got going I couldn’t put it down. The thing that I loved most about this book is how accurate the portrayal of survivals guilt when a loved one has lost their battle to mental illness. I could feel all the emotions each member felt as they tried to come to terms with loss of their loved one. You could see each person on their own journey in how they dealt with the loss. Anyone who has lost a loved one in this way, can relate to these characters. I feel the author also did a fantastic job of showing how mental illness can effect a person and those closes to them. Not only that, but you have the mystery of the voices Cady is hearing and the investigation of Eric, her brother. I highly recommend this book! This might be the first time I cried during a thriller.
3196333284	Ghosts of Harvard by Francesca Serritella ⭐️⭐️⭐️When Cadence Archer starts her freshman year at Harvard, it’s a bittersweet beginning. The campus reminds her of her brother’s suicide that occurred there the year before. As she begins classes, she starts uncovering clues behind her brother’s schizophrenia and begins hearing voices herself. Was there more to her brother’s history than mental illness?I really wanted to love this book, it sounded right up my alley. I think the author is very talented and clearly did her research for this novel, but it fell flat for me. I never felt any sort of connection with the protagonist and frankly was just a bit bored during most of it. This was too much of a slow burn for me and I found myself wanting to skip to the end to find out how it ended, instead of enjoying the journey.
3306453109	I gave this 2 stars instead of 1 because I enjoyed this book quite a bit until I was about 75% in. At that point it became more and more ridiculous and I found myself groaning. There were 2 plot lines and I looked forward to them coming together but they did not. If she had chosen one or the other throughout the entire book I would have stayed hooked.
3607073930	I checked this book out from the library but now I have to buy my own copy because I will definitely reread this. I loved this entire story. This is such a crazy, powerful and beautiful story. It will be added as a new favorite on my shelves.
3563751081	Not for me. This was incredibly slow until way too much was happening at once. Things did not tie together for me and I felt this book was trying to weave two equally ridiculous narratives together, neither of which were well cultivated.
3199393872	Find this review at Forever Lost in Literature!Ghosts of Harvard is a story revolving around Cadence (Cady) Archer as she navigates her life as a new freshman at Harvard--the same place where her brother, Eric, committed suicide a few years before. Her father is supportive of her decision to attend the same university, but her mother struggles to understand how she could attend the same school that cause her family so much pain, which contributes to a lot of tension that already exists within this small family.As you might expect based upon the synopsis, this is an emotionally intense read and handles some extremely heavy subject matters. I thought that Serritella was particularly deft at handling these topics and I really appreciated her nuanced approach at showcasing how Cady, her father, and her mother all uniquely handled such a traumatic experience. I didn't feel that anything was over- or underdone and that Cady's questions and struggles with her grief were conveyed in a really well-written manner.Cady herself, however, was a character that I had an extremely difficult time connecting with or liking. I don't mind unlikable characters, but I don't think she was supposed to be unlikable, and I found her particularly irritating and a bit careless towards those around her. I understand that this period in Cady's life is one in which she is struggling emotionally with the grief of her brother's death and this, along with some other newfound mental struggles (namely the voices/ghosts that she hears), but I'm not sure this fully excuses some of her actions. There were times when I can see how her obsession with learning more about her brother's death overtook her thoughts, but there were also times when she actively made decisions that were incredibly baffling. I also found her motivations a little bit confusing at times about attending Harvard in the first place. I understand very well that when a loved one commits suicide, there are endless questions about why and possibly a somewhat obsessive-like desire to figure out exactly what happened, or even to find another explanation. This is very much what Cady does in this book, but the intensity behind her pursuit skyrockets in very little time in this story and I found it a bit jarring to see her somewhat over-the-top actions that just didn't fit with how she had already been introduced.I have a lot of thoughts on the "ghosts" that Cady hears, and I can't speak too much of them because I don't want to spoil anything, but I will say that I'm still sort of questioning their purpose. On the one hand, I genuinely loved learning about the lives and stories of each ghost voice that Cady hears, and I I like how they became a part of the story in more than just one way. On the other hand, the way Serritella handles these voices as a plot device on the whole was a little perplexing to me and I found myself particularly frustrated by how the plot line involving the ghosts was wrapped up at the end. I'm not sure if others have the same frustrations as I do, but it really has left me feeling a bit irritated with the entire story. There's no real explanation for these and I would have really liked to learn more about the entire situation.My last frustration with this is how completely off the rails I feel it gets near the end. There are a few 'out-there' moments throughout the duration of the novel, but it isn't until the ending when everything really seems to get crazy. There were a few too many things that felt over the top and I remember feeling such bafflement at some of the plotlines/points that ended up happening near the end and that involved certain characters. There was one 'reveal' in particular that felt so obvious that I didn't actually expect it to happen, yet it did, so I was surprised...but not in a good way. I was also very frustrated with how Serritella portrayed the character of Professor Prokop, as there were more than a few moments that I found particularly demeaning towards her as a woman--moments that I hoped would end up being shown as harmful thinking, but that didn't have any kind of rectification in the end (such as constantly referring to her as this 'hot blonde physics professor' that all the guys wanted, etc.).All these issues aside, this is still an oddly compelling story. It's a bit slow at times, but I also kept reading it and actually read through it faster than I expected to, being a 480-page book. I'm in a mix of somewhere between 2-3 stars. For now, I'm going with 3 stars because of the fact that it was both oddly compelling and there were a lot of plot elements that were handled well and were interesting.
6847473157	*Ghosts of Harvard* by Francesca Serritella is a psychological thriller with a supernatural twist, blending mystery and mental health themes against the prestigious backdrop of Harvard University. The story follows Cady, a freshman haunted by the recent suicide of her brother, who had also attended the school. As she grapples with her grief and guilt, she starts hearing voices that lead her to question her sanity and delve deeper into the circumstances surrounding her brother’s death.While the novel explores important themes like mental illness, family secrets, and the pressures of academia, much of the conflict feels frustratingly avoidable. A lot of the plot's tension stems from a lack of communication—if only Cady had opened up to her family or sought help earlier, many of the mysteries and misunderstandings could have been addressed far more directly. This often makes the story feel more convoluted than it needs to be, which can detract from the emotional weight of the narrative.That said, Serritella’s writing is atmospheric and engaging, particularly in her depiction of Harvard’s gothic architecture and elite, high-stakes environment. The supernatural elements are intriguing, though at times they overshadow the deeper, more poignant aspects of Cady’s journey through grief. For readers who enjoy a mix of ghostly intrigue and emotional complexity, *Ghosts of Harvard* delivers, but the frustration of unresolved conversations can leave you wishing for more clarity and resolution.
3185497516	✨Review✨Thank you so much Random House for the free ARC of “Ghosts of Harvard” to review. This book released at the start of May so you can grab a copy now and I highly encourage you to. “Ghosts of Harvard” is one of the most beautifully written books I have read this year. It is tragic, heartbreaking, and yet full of love and hope. Francesca Serritella has crafted a novel unlike any I have read before. Equal parts thriller and ghost story, “Ghosts of Harvard” kept me on the edge of my seat in many ways. I flew through it to the point where I forgot that it was an almost 500 page book. It was simply so engaging that I didn’t want to put it down. There are definitely some difficult topics covered in this book such as suicide, slavery, and schizophrenia, but I thought that Serritella did an amazing job of telling each character’s story. I truly loved reading the section included at the end of the book about how she gathered research when writing “Ghosts of Harvard.” I think this is a book that will stick with readers because in addition to being an amazing thriller and ghost story, it is also a story about family. It is about being there for those you love, trusting each other, and persevering despite hardship. I truly feel a connection to this book and cannot rave about it enough. Please grab a copy and experience all that “Ghosts of Harvard” has to offer. 5/5 ⭐️
3368375302	Here we have a campus novel with a hint of paranormal activity, but don’t worry, this one won’t spook you. ⁣⁣Cady is in her freshman year of college at Harvard University, and while she is eager to start classes, she is even more eager to dig up the past. Her older brother was a student at Harvard until a year earlier when he took his own life and now Cady is obsessed with finding out the truth behind his passing. She navigates her time at Harvard with a little help from voices of the school’s past. With the clues from her brothers notebook and the ‘Ghosts of Harvard’, she is able to find the truth and come to terms with her brother’s death. ⁣⁣The heavy subject of mental health and suicide was expertly and thoughtfully written within these pages. At times I felt excited, sad, and even angry, but I never wanted to put the book down. Although I do think the book could have been shortened just a little bit, I do appreciate the length and think this would make a great television series. ⁣⁣
3586352093	An absolutely brilliant novel. I was so emotionally spent once I finished it. The author does a fantastic job at taking you through a wide array of emotions. At times the novel felt like a love story, at other times a ghost story, and at the heart of it, a psychological thriller. It’s even more brilliant when you finish the novel and read the author’s note.
3516390997	This was a book with a very serious message, yet it was fun to read; it felt like I was back in college (not that I could have survived at Harvard). The male character who committed suicide was the age of my son when he died, so I could relate somewhat. I'm not sure what to make of the ghosts though. It was kind of hard to swallow that angle of the book. I think 3 1/2 stars is a more accurate rating for me.
3368649033	This is a story of a girl whose brother commits suicide in his first year at Harvard University shortly after being diagnosed with schizophrenia. Cady wants desperately to understand what was going on in her brother’s life that pushed him to this point, even if it means looking crazy herself. This book took me some time to get through, but I really enjoyed it. The author clearly did her research. I would be careful if suicide or mental health is a trigger for you because it definitely gets into the nitty-gritty, but would still highly recommend this gets added to your TBR list.
5923515557	Bien écrit, prenant et plots twists >>> vraiment sympa surtout pour un premier livre
3260524409	A very engaging campus novel. It’s a little bit mystery, a little bit crime, a little bit supernatural, and overall very readable. I’m a bit of a ho for a campus novel, so I am clearly the target audience here. That being said, I was a bit worried that this book might be too long and in need of a bit of an edit, but I really found it compelling reading throughout. There’s some sensitive exploration of grief, mental illness and the ripples these leave in families and individuals. A great summer read.
5262318368	Convinced me not to apply to Harvard.
3286124527	OMG this book is amazing!!!!!!! I had high Hope's for this book because of who the author is related to(Lisa Scottoline's daughter). I was enthralled by this book and Francesca Serritella is making a name for herself with this book!!!!!!! I was hooked from the first page and couldn't put it down. The way she gives us insight into the schizophrenia disease was remarkable and a total enjoyment to read. Thank you to Netgalley and Random House Publishing for my honest review on this book.
3305307877	Wow, I absolutely loved this book. "The Ghosts of Harvard" is my favorite find on NetGalley so far - I am going to buy a physical copy for my shelf on its release date."The Ghosts of Harvard" seamlessly blends traditional mystery, ghost stories, Harvard history, family drama, and reflections on mental illness into an incredible reading experience. I fell in love with the character of Cady. who is attending Harvard shortly after her superstar brother Eric, also a Harvard student, tragically died by suicide. Cady is determined to learn more about why her brother took his own life. Eric was also schizophrenic, and when Cady begins attending Harvard herself, in addition to seeing the campus through her brother's eyes, she too begins to hear voices. But the voices are from actual past residents of the Harvard campus (including two former slaves), so Cady begins to consider whether the voices she hears are actually ghosts rather than symptoms of the schizophrenia which runs in the family. Reading this book brings back a lot of memories of college, with the added intrigue of a mystery. Cady's love for her brother is the primary thing that shines through this book which is beautifully and emotionally written. I was interested in learning whether Cady's voices were truly ghosts, schizophrenic "voices," or just really beautiful figments of her imagination, but ultimately the answer did not matter because I just enjoyed reading them so much. Serritella has such a knack for characters and dialogue, it was such a pleasure to read this book.And also....the book has a great and unexpected ending. Even though it's not your traditional mystery, this book will satisfy any mystery fan.I liked this book so much that I googled the author afterward and learned that not only is she the daughter of another author I like, Lisa Scottoline, but also, she has been working on this book for over ten years. This provides a lot of hope and excitement to fellow frustrated long term writers like me who have yet to finish a book of fiction. Thanks to NetGalley, Penguin Random House, and especially Francesca Serritella for such a beautiful and unique book.
3302669058	I feel like this book would have benefitted from a different title. This is not really a ghost story, the ghosts kind of feel like they belong in a different story as the presence of the ghosts isn't really about any kind of haunting, but rather a tool or plot device that provides greater context for Cady's uncertainty and grief. If anything I found the romantic overlap of Cady's relationships with both a human guy and a ghost guy to be crying-inducing. I don't want to say that a book can't be many things, but in this case I feel like I might have enjoyed it more if it were just a reflection on loss and blame in conjunction with the mystery of it all without the three ghosts of Christmas Harvard's past.The first half of the book feels a little bogged down by the natural repetitive nature of grief, the desire to process the what-ifs again and again while knowing there is no possibility for a different outcome. You have to want to sit in the exploration of grief and the (important) discussions of mental health to continue reading the story. And then as you get to know the characters more of the mystery element is added. I will say that for a book that focuses a lot of mental health and disorders, no one seems to use the correct term "death by suicide," and instead still use the problematic "committed suicide" which only works as a way to demonstrate someone's lack of understanding about the subject, which is applicable with Cady.Overall it was a unique and interesting read that I feel could have been stronger with some honing.
3199871647	What an excellent read. Cady is set to begin her freshman year at Harvard University, where her brother Eric, who had been a junior the prior year, had attended, prior to committing suicide in his dorm room. A brilliant student, he quickly mentally spiraled downward until taking his own life. His sister wants to discover if she can determine what caused him to do this. In doing so, so finds herself meeting his friends, finding that she has the ability to understand and hear voices from the past and not knowing who she can trust.I love the author's descriptions of the characters and the location. It makes you feel like you're right there on the campus of Harvard. I wouldn't necessarily consider this a paranormal genre book, but it seems to work very well.I thought that it was very well written and researched. I definitely recommend this book.I would like to thank the author/ publisher/Netgalley for the opportunity to read this book and exchange for a fair and honest review.
3322724537	** spoiler alert ** Long-winded and frankly just long. 400+ pages of superfluously florid language about absolutely nothing. Dedicating pages to the back-and-forth of a squash match, for instance. Gratuitous use of metaphors and similes that don’t contribute to anything but the sheer length of the novel. The plot was muddled and the characters thoroughly unlikable and hideously selfish. The (for lack of a better descriptor) ghost-sex scene was cringe-y. Russian espionage? YAWN. College students being total dicks to each other? Wow, groundbreaking. Save yourself the time and money and skip this one. You’ve probably read 10 books just like it already, anyways.
4051641532	the writing is impeccable. the audiobook was great. there was evidently so much research put into this story, especially in the schizophrenia rep. there are so many layers to this book. it was such an enjoyable reading experience that i will reread it physically and annotate it for sure in the near future. im sooo glad i randomly decided to give it a shot.
3328531194	Ms Serritella's writing done with her mother Lisa Scottoline has always been entertaining, so I was pleased to find this solo book. Great find!
3307106913	I wish that I could give this book 6 stars...it was absolutely beautiful.
7988592761	My thoughts on this book are…complicated, to say the least. Do I have issues with the overall storytelling? Yes. Do I think that the ending switched genres so abruptly that I felt like I was reading an entirely different story than the one I'd been reading for the first 75% of the book? Also yes. Did I hate this book? No, but I wanted to.Cady, the main character, suffers the fate of being a poorly-written main character. Her only thoughts and goals center around understanding her brother who committed suicide (literally mentioned in the first chapter, mind you, so this does not count as spoilers) and not her own goals or desires or dreams. Aside from thinking every guy she sees is attractive, she doesn't really have any agency. She also doesn't go to class, which like, if she was skipping because she didn't care, that's one thing that I understand, but she's a freshman at Harvard, I don't think you can care more than that. The main villain was cartoonishly evil and had so little character development that it didn't have any real effect. One of the guy characters was obviously not a good guy, and it was really easy to tell, I almost wish the twist had been that he was a sympathetic character. I literally predicted that part from the jump. And so many of the secondary characters were just plot devices, it wasn't even amusing. Also, one of her professors is also cartoonishly evil for being so pissed that she showed up late on the first day of class. I've had to leave class early, which is arguably more offensive, and profs literally only cared to check in on me. Maybe that's a side effect of a good department, but I feel like most profs don't care that much about tardiness on the first day unless they have an inferiority complex.Now, you may be wondering: Claire, why are you rating this book 3 stars? To which I would say, um, actually, I'm rating it 3.25 stars (the .25 adds a lot), and it's 90% because of the audiobook. That narrator is probably the best single person narrator I've ever heard, and I'm so genuinely impressed, I'm going to make a note of her for work. When I say that the audiobook carried, I mean that the audiobook carried . Literally moved the book up a full star. It otherwise would've taken me much longer to finish it. Before the audiobook loan came in, I was only able to read 30 pages of this, but once I got my hands on it, I finished it so fast. This audiobook was so good, I'm thinking of purchasing it as a trophy.Basically, my review comes out to this: it's not bad, it's not good, I won't tell you to run away from it, and I won't recommend it. Exceptionally average at best. Needs more academia. Good October read. Probably 50 pages too long tbh
3587882316	Ghost stories make me happy. Who else is a believer in ghosts? 🙋🏻‍♀️ I tell my kids and husband I will haunt the shit out of them if I die young, no way I’m leaving them if I have a choice! This book dealt with grief, guilt, and the aftermath of suicide by a family member. It was deeply moving and heartbreaking at times, and made me angry at others. Everyone deals with death differently, and it was hard to see what Cady’s family went through. I can’t imagine being her mother and losing a child. Cady believes there is more to her brothers death than suicide, and is determined to figure it all out. She begins to hear voices of ghosts in her head and worries she is schizophrenic like Eric was before he took his life. This sends her on a spiral that had me refusing to put this book down. With a title like Ghosts of Harvard, I thought the ghosts would be a little more prevalent, but I loved them all! I wanted to hug Bilhah, and adored Whit. I just wish their storyline would have been more involved and had a different ending! I really enjoyed this in the end and felt like it was a great October read! 👻
3317686867	While reading Ghosts of Harvard by Francesca Serritella, I was amazed by her descriptions of the architect and the grounds of Harvard. You can tell she really explored the campus while there. And the history of the campus was very cool to read. One of the many reasons I love books is all the new things you learn, like when Harvard first began they had slaves who worked there. One of the many things I never learned in school. At 471 pages this is a longer book, but I wanted more… of some of it at least. The first 20% was Cadence aka Cady, rehashing her brother’s death over and over. And then it was repeated heavily throughout the rest of the book. While we all need to talk about mental illness and suicide more, I also pick up a fiction book for enjoyment, not to be brought down repeatedly. It took me a bit to finally get into the story, and then there wasn’t enough. I think people who read the synopsis and are drawn to Ghosts of Harvard for the supernatural aspect of the book may be disappointed. Although there is a ghost story in the book, well, actually three, it comes down to the ghosts helping Cady deal with her brother’s death, even while she is interacting with them. I wanted more of the ghosts. I wanted the ghosts to mean more than being a way to help her with her issues or teach us about history (even if they did in a cool way). And later on, when the mystery gets more involved, I wanted more of the conspiracy that her brother had been experiencing. So while there was too much of reliving her brother’s death, for me, there wasn’t enough mystery, ghosts, and conspiracies. Which makes me a bit sad because what Serritella did write in regards to them was excellent. I still highly recommend this book though, even if it wasn’t exactly what I was looking for.
3355118955	I really wanted to like this book more than I did (I mean, the setting is Harvard University and I'm an academic! #nerdsunite) but meh. This one fell flat for me. It started out super interesting. The story centers around Cadence Archer, a female freshman slated to start her college education at Harvard (exciting!) but there's only one issue: her older brother, Eric, also attended the school and ended up dying via suicide on campus due to mental health issues. Super sad! Cadence is determined to get to the bottom of why Eric killed himself and, in the process, prove that she's nothing like her brother and can make it on her own at the school. That's when the ghosts come in. She starts hearing voices of the past....people who lived on campus grounds. I will admit, that (for me) this was probably the most interesting part of the story. Who were these voices? Were they really ghosts (as the title suggests) and where were they coming from?Without dropping any spoilers, I'll say that I still have questions about these ghosts and I am really disappointed that this story line seemed to be eclipsed within the story. After getting a little over halfway through, I was ready for the novel to end, but it just kept plodding along. Sure, the novel raises a lot of important questions about mental health issues but I don't really feel like it gave the deep dive they really deserve. Overall, a very vanilla read.
3362115065	This book is hard to define. It starts off as psychological fiction with a college age girl, Cady trying to deal with her brother's suicide the year before. He was brilliant but also a paranoid schizophrenic who frequently did not take his medication. Cady is attending Harvard which is where her brother killed himself in an effort to understand him and maybe discover why he took such a drastic action.While at Harvard she tries to track down his friends, professors and even his rivals while dealing with auditory hallucinations or ghosts from different eras of Harvard's past. There is also a thriller aspect as Cady tries to decipher Eric's notebooks and discovers a possible spy plot but is that aspect true or was it part of Eric's delusion?I found this book to be so moving. The author is skilled at prose but is still able to get inside Cady's mind and make her realistic and likable. It is clear that the author attended Harvard as she has such an understanding of the places she describes. I did feel that it wrapped up rather quickly at the end and some minor characters had storylines that were just left open.
3181250075	Cady is a freshman at Harvard University. One of the most exciting time of her life, right? Well, not really. Her big brother Eric committed suicide on campus at Harvard last year, and Cady is dead set on finding out what happened to her brother; what led him to do the ultimate act. Of course, everyone knew about his mental condition. His schizophrenia must not have helped, but Cady knew her brother and was adamant that "something" must have happened.. This is the most impressive debut novel I have read in a while! So many topics to chew on: science, History, mental conditions, supernatural activities, loss, grief, suicide, maturity, coming of age. I loved the story beginning to end. It was medium paced and the characters were not crafted with a desire to be loved or hated. They just were; came across very real without stereotypes. I was very impressed by the psychological accuracy of the many facets of Eric schizophrenia and the collateral damage caused to his family. An intense mystery novel in a magnificent setup. I am so impressed! I will definitely be on the lookout for Francesca Serritella's next book.
5440532179	** spoiler alert ** Such a whimsical read that took you through a story of tragedy to redemption. At times I felt myself getting lost in Cady's personal search for answers but not in a good way because it was, on occasion, frustrating to practically watch her throw a golden opportunity away of studying at one of the nation's most prestigious schools due to her grief and regret but honestly, it speaks to the mindset of Cady and is pretty much the point of the book. I wanted to rip her mother's hair out, flirt with Nikos right along side her, and then watch him get flushed down the drain with all the other turds and it speaks to the author's writing. She carries you through this story in all of its ups and downs and puts in the perfect twist at the end that sends you spiraling. Nikos broke my heart, I was rooting for him the whole time:/ but it was interesting to be slowly wrapped in the comfort of Whit and it makes you wonder who could've been your lost soulmate in a past era folded over in time? But one of my favorite parts was the end where Francesca writes about her inspiration from the book. Ghosts of Harvard is rooted in reality and I find that to be comforting because you get a taste of non-fiction in a very fictitious book. This was a fun read that I devoured and I have zero regrets.
5640883704	this is a ~450 pg book, and i got through it in 3 sittings, mostly because of the easy pacing and narrative structure. in reading what is considered dark academia, i notice a few essential qualities that each novel should have under that genre: this one carries that similar guise quite well.one thing: i grew progressively more stressed as i navigated my way thru this work, as our main character delved deeper into the explorative obsession for her brother’s moments at harvard. this alone was generally enough to keep me hooked me reading (at 3am, as usual). cannot speak for how accurate the portrayal of mental illness was, but i can tell that a lot of thought and research was involved in the creation of the story. i would say that the last few sections of the novel seemed more so out of the blue and rushed, so i can’t exactly give it all five stars.
5469492630	Cadence, (Cady) is determined to find out why her brother Eric took his own life. He has mental illness but everyone thought he was doing well. He was at Harvard, and jumped. Cady is now attending Harvard and needs answers. She has found a notebook of her brothers with cryptic messages. They used to communicate with messages.Upon her arrival she starts hearing voices. Is she starting to show signs of the illness that haunted her brother? The voices are from ghost that used to walk the halls. Could the voices be trying to tell her something about them or her brother? As the story unfolds I was touched at how the family dynamics can change with mental illness. It is important to get help. I listened to the audio. Karissa is a narrator that is always a go to for me. She is amazing! She makes each novel come to life.
3184561357	This book & review contain heavy topics.Cady's best friend was her brother Eric, that is until he was diagnosed with schizophrenia. Eric was attending Harvard when loses control of his illness and he ends his life. Cady decides to follow in her in her brother's footsteps by attending Harvard. While attending school she becomes obsessed with finding out about her brother's last days and what he was up to before his death. As Cady chases after her brothers secrets she befriends 3 ghosts that need her help. Are they really ghosts or does she share her brother's illness?Ghosts of Harvard was an incredible book. I loved the thought and detail that went into this book. It felt like I could have been at Harvard walking around campus. Cady and her family pulled on my heart you could really feel the strain of their grief. The story overall was a bit of a slow burn but I liked how the story progressed. Mental illness and suicide are very serious topics that are not always included in books. Francesca did a wonderful job of including these issues in a very tasteful and respectful way. All in all I really enjoyed reading this book and would absolutely recommend it!A huge thank you to NetGalley & Random house for my ARC!Ghosts of Harvard is available now!
4993640962	I really enjoyed the author's writing style. I felt immersed into university life and believed I was in the characters shoes. Very impressive combining many topics such as suicide, mental health, ghostly realm/supernatural, sibling relationships, parent-child relationships and difficulties, first year at university dynamic and coming into her own individuality, and undertones of morality. I particularly enjoyed a fluid sense of cultural representation and friendship dynamics, which was good to see. I have to admit, the ending was quite rushed, and was unexpected. I think I expected a bit more to pan out from the supernatural element than it did, but for the most part all the loops did end up closed by the end which is cleverly done.
5019416354	J'ai vraiment beaucoup aimé ce roman qui traite avec brio le thème de la santé mentale. Etant friande de dark academia, j'ai étais servie car dans ce roman on retrouve des : évènements qui semblent inexpliqués, une mort suspicieuse, une célèbre université, une mélancolie présente à tout moment. Cependant je n'ai pas ressenti non plus le coup de coeur car certains passages étaient un peu long, mais cela n'empêche pas que j'ai passé un excellent moment de lecture en compagnie de Cady et des nombreux fantômes de Harvard.
