2343881211	ARC acquired at Book Expo! “There were always excuses for why girls died.” Ninth House is a love letter to living and surviving unspeakable abuse. This is a book all about trauma, and PTSD, and healing, in any and every way that you can. This is a book for victims, who have felt they will never get the piece of them back that someone forcefully took. This is a book for anyone who was willing to do anything to feel empowered after something horrible occurred. This is a book about the dark and the light and the in between phases a human can go through to get their voice back.But this is also a story about a girl named Galaxy Stern, or Alex, who is from LA, but is now across the country and studying at Yale. The book continuously switches back and forth from Late Spring to Winter, so we get to see what happened in the past and the ramifications it causes for present day Alex.In the Winter, we get to see her starting Yale, meeting a man named Darlington, and learning all about the nine secret societies at Yale, with secret, magical rituals that they perform. Lethe recruits a new freshman every three years to join sixteen seniors every year, where they gain knowledge of the occult. And Alex was picked because she has a very sought-after ability, that she has been running from her entire life. Also, it is Lethe House’s responsibility as the ninth house to keep the others in order and make sure they aren’t doing bad things.In the Spring, everything is different, and Alex is struggling with the weight of so much. From missing people, to ghosts who are paying her too much attention, to a girl being murdered that Alex can’t help but think was because of one of the secret societies, and she is willing to do anything to solve the case. Even if that means making a deal with one of the ghosts she is supposed to be ignoring. “But the trouble had begun on a night in the full dark of winter, when Tara Hutchins died and Alex still thought she might get away with everything.” Sounds pretty amazing, right? And I’m telling you, this book’s atmosphere, along with the campus setting, it was a perfect combination. Also, you all know that I think Leigh’s writing is a tier above most. The quotes I was able to pull from this book? They take the breath from my lungs even upon rereading them.Also, this book has a beautiful discussion about privilege and power dynamics. Leigh does not hold back truth of what white, rich, privileged boys and how they feel they are entitled to any and everything, and God bless her for that. Cycles of abuse and entitlement truly can be passed down, leaving terrible things in their wake, which will impact so many victims for their entire lives. Unchecked privilege is a terrifying thing, friends. And Leigh is not scared to go there, in the terrible acts they commit, to the horrible ends they deserve, and I really appreciated it, and it may have been my favorite element of this book. “Beautiful boys who should be happy, who wanted for nothing but still found things to take.” But you all are probably wondering why I gave this book three stars. I’m going to be brutally honest, not much happened in this book, and surely enough didn’t happen for this book to be almost 500 pages. I feel like you could easily cut this book in half and it would have been way more impactful and way more exciting to read. As much as I loved the healing of this book, and I loved the premise of secret societies all about the occult, I just felt so damn bored by reading this book. It started to feel like a chore to pick up, and this book took me twice the amount of time it would normally take me to read.It also started to feel so formulaic, where something really bad and heartbreaking would happen (past or present) then we’d have 50+ pages of nothing, and then something even worse happens, then 50+ of nothing. I will never lessen anyone’s trauma or how they choose to write and heal about it, but this book just made me feel nothing and then immeasurably uncomfortably and sadness, back to back to back, and it made for a really not great reading experience for me. Also, my favorite character was for sure Darlington, and I really wish we could have seen so much more of him. And lastly, the ending sort of wrapped this story up, I guess? But it just left me desiring so much more, and not in a good way if I’m being honest.So, let’s talk about the elephant in the room. I picked this book up the day before twitter exploded about the trigger warnings. I will be honest, it made for such a strange reading experience, because I felt like everyone was looking at me, even though I was only 100 pages into this book. At the end of this review, like always, I will have all the trigger warnings that I found listed. This is a dark book, with very dark themes and elements, and some extremely dark scenes. Alex truly has horrible things happen to her and her loved ones throughout her short life. I highly recommend you make sure you are in a safe headspace before picking this one up, because a few of these triggers are not my own, but they still really bothered me to read. “People didn’t need magic to be terrible to each other.” Overall, this was a disappointment for me. This was easily my most anticipated release of 2019, besides Queen of Nothing, and maybe I just put it on a pedestal subconsciously. I do think this one will be polarizing upon release, and I have friends who love this more than me and dislike this more than me. Honestly, I’m in this weird middle ground where I loved the setting and atmosphere, but I didn’t love the story or characters. I will probably still pick up the next installment, I think I’m just going to go into it with lower expectations.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch The quotes above were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication.Content and Trigger Warnings: drug use, overdosing, murder, death, loss of a loved one, rituals, gore, PTSD depiction, grief depiction, self-harm, bloodletting, rape, child (12) rape (it is only two pages, but it is very graphic), statutory rape (15), sexual assault, forced sexual assault on video, talk of suicide, blackmail, physical abuse, a magical date rape drug, forced eating of human waste (to a rapist), and racism (always in a negative light).
3011366864	4.25/5 ⭐Full review on my Blog: The Dacian She-Wolf 🐺 me: *seeing the whole anarchy this book has created* I wonder if I too can ruin my lifeOh, behold the majestic weird shit that I am, reading my first Leigh Bardugo book ever! YES. You may laugh at me and judge me and all that, but honestly, this book has created some serious anarchy after publication, a type of anarchy that made me stop and think: “If this book makes people feel so intense, then it is a make it or break it for me for sure”. This book was about to be the ultimate answer to my eternal question – “Will I ever even like Leigh Bardugo?” The answer to that lame question – Yes. And I know that’s not even one of her greatest works. Ninth House was and is (at least for me) a weird combination of delightful and crafty action, disgusting and unnecessary details and a perpetual feeling of cringe. But I bloody loved it and that shows how much of next-level trash I can be.THERE IS NO YOUNG ADULT CONTENT HERE. And I mean it. For those who don’t really get along with (new) adult content, please put the book away or suck it up and read it on your own expense. Disclaimer: it contains emotional triggers such as child molesting, alcohol and drug abuse, physical and psychical abuse, curse words, violence and other things in that particular area. “Mors vincit irrumat omnia.” To be completely honest, I don’t know much about Yale and its organisational system or its secret societies or whatever voodoo is happening there at the moment. And even more honest, I don’t quite care. But bringing this topic in discussion and making a somehow “magical” experience out of it is quite interesting.This society, Lethe, is there to supervise every abuse of magic the other eight secret societies are conducting. In reality, Lethe is a mess and they barely have a bloody idea what they are doing there, but you know, I’ve been to my current faculty for three years now and I have no idea what I’m doing either so Lethe, I got you bruh. The action here seems to be purely symbolic in my opinion. I mean, things don’t really happen until the last 150 pages whatsoever. But the interesting thing is that when the whole mystery started to unravel, it kind of caught you off guard. I, for instance, was caught off guard by the whole ending and this hurts the Agatha Christie fan in me because it is literally a very easy-to-solve mystery.Now, let’s talk about my favourite part: Darlington.Daniel Arlington aka Darlington is the so-called “gentleman of Lethe” and oh, doesn’t this world need more gentlemen? For real now, that’s an honest question. Everyone loves Darlington. And I do too. And you’ll do too. I cannot explain that, but he’s got a sort of magnetic personality that fascinates everyone. He’s like the biggest geek on the planet meets the rich, upper-class boy meets the charismatic boy next door. He’s all that and he’s precious.Galaxy Stern, a culturally ambiguous girl with a long record at the ready and a very comical but interesting name is not immune to Darlington’s charms. In fact, she might be as in love with him as the rest of us. Alex sees ghosts. And she has been seeing them for all her life. Which is kind of disturbing? She was bullied for it and she became a broken girl. All that rebellion was purely a defence mechanism gone wrong. But after all, when life gives you sour lemons like that you have to make a sour lemonade and to try to sweeten it with everything you have at hand. Or to drink it as it is. “We all have spaces we keep blank.” I am not very fond of Alex’s character just yet, she’s indeed a hard girl to love but I think she might grow on me after a while. I already love her wits so I just need another push to be sure I like her. On the other hand, another great character of this book is Pamela Dawes whom I actually really love. Pammie is the mum-friend and there’s no way you’ll argue that after you come to know her. Hell, I’ll let her cook some lemon chicken soup for me anytime, that’s how amazing I think she is.There’s a lot going on in this book. It is something hard to get into because the beginning is extremely confusing. The action is quite slow and not necessarily that complex, but somehow, until the end, there is something there. Something that leaves you thinking that you actually enjoy it. It’s a complicated book to like, to be honest. But it has charm. There is something dark that keeps moving, twisting and turning.
3000833409	TOTO, WE’RE NOT IN YA FANTASY ANYMORE.Can you believe that of all the eras we could have been born in, we are all blessed to live in the one in which Leigh Bardugo is publishing books?!I have often felt like Leigh is able to sneak into my brain and write exactly what I need. (I am calling her by her first name because if she is, in fact, a presence inside my mind then it’s a given that we’d be on that level of familiarity.)For example: I love heists and ragtag groups of friends and slow burn romance and did I mention I love heists.Boom. Six of Crows.I love fairytales and beautiful illustrations and even beautiful-er writing.Boom. Language of Thorns.And I love fantasy stories and darkness and twists and magic and New England, but I’ve been feeling dismal about young adult books lately, like maybe I’ve grown out of them.Boom. This book.I am one happy camper.This took me a whileeee to get into. I’m talking 100 to 200 pages, even. But once I was in, I WAS IN. I could not put it down and also I wanted to climb inside the pages and live there and give Alex a kiss on the face and also do her homework for her because oh my god she was not doing it and it stressed me out.This rivals the later Harry Potter books for repeated mentions of homework that the main characters simply are not doing.I love Alex and her thorniness and her fierceness. I love Dawes and her loyalty and her secret goofiness and her sweaters. I love Yale and its secrets and its grounds and its impenetrability.I love Darlington because obviously.(view spoiler)[I had a feeling Bardugo didn’t REALLY kill Darlington...he’s just too good of a character. I knew she would’ve had an affection for him. I guess you don’t kill your darling(ton)s after all…and yes, it’s official, I am the funniest person alive. (hide spoiler)]I even love teeny-tiny characters who shouldn’t have enough characterization but in fact do and are fantastic (Lauren, Mercy, even Tripp and Hellie and people with like single lines of dialogue).God damn it I need the next book NOW. Leigh, if I didn’t have all the respect in the world for you, I would scream because you are writing 82 books and 300 TV and film adaptations and I just want you to let me back into this world right now, please and thank you.Honestly...I am profoundly impressed by the fact that this book felt N O T H I N G like anything else I’ve read by Leigh Bardugo. She is just such a good writer.Also, speaking of the fact that this is very un-Bardugo.This IS NOT a young adult book. In young adult books, things can be relatively happy-happy-joy-joy. General fiction has no such obligation.There is a lot of violence and gore and intense imagery in this story. It is not a comfy read. You can say that this is not your cup of tea for those reasons, and you are well within your rights to say so.But it’s not fair to say this is a *bad book* because it has those things.There is not a cap on the upsetting content that a story can contain before it’s gone overboard. A book is not bad because it dares to address multiple difficult topics.This is a book where awful and disturbing things happen, yes, but it isn’t a book where awful and disturbing things happen for no reason. They don’t happen in a vacuum without cause or results. The characters are affected by them.It handles multiple tough topics with care and with sensitivity. It is a well written and well handled book. Trying to “cancel” it because it does so is equivalent to banning books.Anyway. Censorship rant over.Back to the important stuff.GIVE ME THE SEQUEL.I HAVE NEVER BEEN SO INVESTED IN THE PLOTLINE OF A BOOK THAT HASN’T COME OUT YET.I WEEP.Bottom line: Leigh Bardugo help me.Also I need to change this to five stars.---------------------reread updatesGIVE ME THE SEQUEL NOWbuddy reread with lily because my life is perfect-----------currently-rereading updatesmy internal monologue: darlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlingtondarlington-----------the only surprising thing about me rereading this is that it took this long-----------pre-reviewQUEEN LEIGH HAS DONE IT AGAIN.review to come / 4.5 stars might change to 5 WHO KNOWS-----------currently reading updates(don't mind me, just arbitrarily decided in the middle of the day six months after i last read this that it deserves five stars.)-----------IT'S HAPPENING.-----------tbr reviewgoing to need my copy of this to hurry up and GET HERE thx-----------to give you an idea of how much i'm anticipating this:i've only preordered 2 books in my life.this is one of them.
2683207134	"I am a daughter of Lethe, and the wolves are at the door."Hello friends, and good evening. Do me a favor will you? Could you all please stand up? Thank you. Now, if you're a fan of dark fantasy/horror and stories involving occult magic, please remain standing; everyone else can sit down. Remain standing if you also retain the ability to push through a read that has a slew of triggers, such as sexual assault, graphic rape of a 12 year old girl, murder, gore, death, drug abuse/overdose, possession, the forced eating of excrement to a rapist, and many more subjects. Great, now also remain standing if you are ok with reading a book where you are dropped into the middle of a world much like our own, but you have no idea what's going on and have to figure it out as you go at a slow burning pace, until all is revealed. If you're still with me, follow me to the next portion; the rest of you may be excused.Why the dramatics, Chels? Well, to be fair, this book won't be for everyone. I'll go as far as saying that it won't be for a majority of people. Ninth House is an extremely dark and heavy read, one that is well-written and plotted, but contains many aspects that are so niche that I can't imagine a majority of Bardugo's YA fantasy fans crossing over into this realm. Many of my close, trusted friends have struggled with this book, and I highly respect their opinions and reasons for not resonating with it, and if you're looking for a wonderful, objective 3 star review to offset mine, I suggest you read Melanie's HERE.If you're still with me, I'd like to take a moment and break down, into sections, just what ground the book covers. There will be no major spoilers, but if you want to go in blind without any sense of what the book is about, stop here. "That was what magic did. It revealed the heart of who you'd been before life took away your belief in the possible. It gave back the world all lonely children longed for. That was what Lethe had done for him. Maybe it could do that for Alex as well."The book opens with a touch of an ending, and abruptly brings us back to what I will refer to as Present Day. We are dropped directly into Alex's daily schedule, and over the course of the first 150 pages or so, we slowly gather information on the various secret societies at Yale, how magic is involved, and snippets of Alex's past that lead her to Yale in the first place. This is the section where the book weeds out those who bought this because it's one of the most popular new releases of 2019, and those who are genuinely interested in dark ADULT fantasy. Once we get a general sense of this alternate contemporary world, we realize there are two mysteries at hand. One is the murder of a local and there appears to have been magic involved. Who killed her and for what purpose? This particular mystery does tie into the next mystery I'll be mentioning, but suffice it to say that this murder is solved and completely wrapped up in this first installment. The second mystery is the disappearance of Alex's mentor, Darlington. This mystery receives answers but will continue on into the sequel. Along the way, Alex teams up with a few human people and also Grays (spirits of the deceased that still roam the earth) to solve both mysteries, while also revealing the entirety of Alex's background and how she came to be at Yale. I'll be honest, I had my doubts in the beginning. When I say that the pacing is slow, I mean it is S-L-O-W. The audio version of Ninth House features two of my favorite narrators, and I found that this format worked best for me in the beginning, and I enjoyed it so much that I mostly listened to the entire book rather than reading my hard copy. Once the ball gets rolling, I became fully engrossed. I can't tell you how interesting it was to read about all of these real societies with the added flair of magical abilities. Bardugo created a world that felt eerily realistic; no detail is left untouched and she used the old Stephen King method of "make it real, but change the slightest detail to make it not real," and this worked beautifully. After a majority of the book being the slow burn, the ending is absolute bonkers in the best way! Wild, action packed, and with a few twists I did not see coming! I felt the ending was brilliant; it wasn't a cliffhanger but it did leave me ready and wanting to come back for more. I'll stop before I ramble on, but I'd like to cautiously recommend this book with gusto. If you've read it, I'd love to chat with you about it. If you decide this isn't for you, I respect that, and I can't wait for the next book we get to chat about together.
2661203342	Yesssss! I finished this book in just one hour and caught every reference in one go. I transformed into the most intelligent book-reading machine alive, flipping two pages at once (because my brain could already sense what was written on the next page—unbelievable, right?). I didn’t get bored. I didn’t yawn. My eyelids didn’t droop. I was laser-focused. And the characters? I loved them so much I never even felt the urge to slap one or hate any of them. They were memorable, marvelous, and downright fantastic.So, after finishing this masterpiece, I went to my culinary class—and all the students applauded as I whipped up a flawless soufflé, macaroons, and paella in twenty minutes. Then my husband called to tell me he’d bought us a vineyard in France so we could grow grapes and make our own wine. Whaaaaat?!When I got home, the Netflix CEO and Martin Scorsese were waiting in my living room, sipping Chardonnay and playing with my dogs. They dropped to their knees, begging me to collaborate while my neighbors handed me a trophy for being “the most honorable and lovable neighbor in the city.” COME AGAIN?!And then—oh yes—Tom Ellis appeared, smoldering in my living room, asking, “Tell me, what is it you truly desire?”Yesssss!And then I woke up.Oh, come on! Martin Scorsese and Lucifer Morningstar weren’t in my house. Damn it.Do you know why I dreamt like this? Because the first 100 pages of this book gave me the urge to perform hara-kiri with my Kindle. I even started mumbling Japanese—though the only words I know are sushi menu items, so hey, at least this book gave me a new skill.If you know my address, you’re welcome to stop by, throw rotten tomatoes and eggs, and yell, “Idiot! Don’t you get it?!” But first, you’ll have to get past my neighbor who sings Boyz II Men all night. (Yesterday I woke up to him belting out End of the Road in the most ear-bleeding way possible.)Look, I read too many glowing reviews. I adore this author’s past works. This was one of my most anticipated books of the year. When I finally got it, I jumped up and down, danced, yelled, even attempted a somersault—basically all the mature things a forty-year-old lady should never do.But then I started reading. And I thought something was wrong with me. It felt like someone unplugged my brain. Suddenly, I was Jim Carrey in Dumb and Dumber, staring at the walls while drool dripped down my chin. It took me five hours to crawl through the first 100 pages—and I didn’t understand a thing. So I took breaks, downed fish oil tablets, convinced they’d reboot my brain cells.I kept asking myself: This is the same author who wrote Six of Crows, right? Maybe I’m in an alternate universe reading a knock-off. Or maybe all that Chardonnay finally fried my brain into Hollywood fluff.The premise should’ve been my kind of story: Alex, a tormented heroine trying to rebuild her life at Yale, uncovering nine secret societies, rituals, and a murder mystery while battling her demons. Dark. Mysterious. Intense. Totally my vibe.But… the execution felt painfully slow. The clever references came across as pretentious. The writing confused me more than it hooked me. Reading started to feel like an obligation, a mission I had to complete rather than something I enjoyed. A book should make you feel alive, not suffocated.I couldn’t connect with Alex. Darlington definitely wasn’t my “darling.” Sandow, Hellie, Dawlos—they didn’t do it for me either.Maybe it’s me. Maybe I picked the wrong time to read it, or maybe winter gloom made me impatient. But this one just wasn’t my cup of tea (or, since I hate tea, let’s say not my almond milk latte).So yes, go ahead—boo me, exile me, confiscate my Kindle for a week. But these are my honest thoughts: this book just didn’t work for me
2857519146	I should start this by saying had anyone other than Queen Leigh Bardugo written this, I would have given it 1 star. There's also a 90% chance this would be on my DNF shelf. Things I liked: 1. DarlingtonHe was the most likable character in the book for me, but even he fell flat. I get it, Dar. You love the big old mansion you inherited. What else do you have going for you? (Jury is still out on that one.)2. ....................Welp. I've just realized that I liked literally nothing else about the book. It's a no from me: 1. There's barely any dialogue. I don't get it. Bardugo is a master at writing witty dialogue. SHE'S A DAMN PRO. Unfortunately, it hardly makes an appearance in Ninth House. Honestly, the real mystery of this "mystery" book is figuring out why the hell her editor would let her publish something that's 90% narration.2. SERIOUSLY. SO MUCH NARRATION.I really don't need the history behind each and every secret society house. I don't care about the exact layout of Yale's campus. Don't care about what Alex is wearing. Don't care about visiting the library for the 800th time just for Alex to learn nothing. I couldn't even care about all of the graphic stuff that people posted trigger warnings for left and right because it all fell flat. It seemed sort of rushed and pointless and I never cared that any of it was happening because she did that whole amateur TELL, not SHOW your freshman Creative Writing teachers instruct you not to do.3. The graphic stuff felt pointless.Honestly, it felt more gratuitous than anything. Did adding those elements really develop the characters? No. Not really. Alex Stern is the victim of horrendous trauma, and yet she still read quite vanilla to me. So then what was the point of detailing that trauma? (Jury is out on that one, too.)4. IT WAS SO DAMN LONG.WHY? WHYYYYYYY? I kept having to go back and reread paragraphs/pages because I'd realize that ONCE AGAIN my eyes had completely glazed over BECAUSE NOTHING WAS HAPPENING. And when something did happen...5. ...IT WAS COMPLETELY FUCKING RUSHED.I'm not exaggerating when I say the book will go on and on for several chapters without anything happening other than Alex walking around and the omniscient narrator telling us she hasn't slept in awhile. Then, SUDDENLY, Alex would have some random epiphany, she'd run out to investigate, would be completely right about 100% of her suspicions, and then it would go back to chapters of nothing. The end was even more rushed because everything was revealed/solved within a whole two chapters. THE BOOK IS 450 PAGES. YET IT TAKES TWO WHOLE CHAPTERS FOR PERFECT ALEX TO FIGURE IT OUT AND UNMASK THE VILLAIN. If I wanted to watch Scooby Doo, for both the repetition and the reveal, I WOULD TURN ON THE FUCKING TV.Ahem. Sorry. Sorry. Going back to being objective and rational now.Eh, forget it. I'm too worked up. Maybe I'll finish this review later, but probably not BECAUSE MY BLOOD PRESSURE CANNOT HANDLE IT.Still love you, Leigh. I just need you to...not do this again.
1793940681	"There were always excuses for why girls died."To answer your question: yes, it really is that good.Ninth House and I had a bit of a slow start. The new world that Bardugo has created might not be set in a fictional fantasy universe, but it features enough new concepts, characters, and settings that it takes some time to take it all in. Not only does every character have an alias and maybe even a nickname, so do the buildings at Yale. And since all my Yale knowledge is based on that cute little courtyard from Gilmore Girls, I struggled to figure out where and who and what was going on. As soon as I had grasped all of that, though, I was unable to resist the pull of this dark, compelling, murderous book.I don't know where to start. The book was sombre and thrilling, brimming with ancient mysteries, magic, and the promise of danger. The characters were incredibly well-painted, my favourites being Turner and Dawes. The plot was thought-out, and until the very end, it was tense and exciting. My only criticism comes with the one or other reveal during the final showdown. Bardugo dropped enough clues here and there that the reader could have figured out who might have been behind the murder at the centre of this novel. That is until the plot is twisted yet again and delivers an explanation that adds new possibilities that no reader could have suspected. It was drawn up out of thin air and therefore not as genius as I had expected it to be.Now, be warned. If this book is one thing, it's violent. There are some graphic scenes that show sexual abuse. There is trauma and pain and it's not glossed over. I've seen people get mad at Leigh because she chose to show these horrible acts of violence. They accused her of exploiting the pain for shock value. I cannot agree with them. The novel is deeply feminist and shows characters with a past that is tough, that made them survivors. Readers also have no right to know whether the scenes in the book are based on the author's personal experiences. She doesn't have to justify writing about sexual abuse by proving that she has been in a similar position. I do, however, agree that the book needs trigger warnings.I honestly can't wait for the sequel. I mean, I personally don't care about [redacted] and whether they'll manage to save them or not, but the world that Bardugo created is so rich and leaves so much to discover that I wouldn't mind another three to five books. It feels like Alex Stern only just got started kicking ass.Find more of my books on Instagram
3114989596	mmm....not the best record with Bardugo but...everyone loves this one.Fingers crossed. Update 1 Everyone is telling me that the beginning is rough. I'm 1/3 of the way through. Can the beginning be over yet??? #2 CAN WE GO LIKE TWO PAGES WITHOUT SOMEONE GETTING RAPED??? #3 OKAY YES, BUT DID WE HAVE TO TRANSITION TO POO? The audiobook, a summary: 1-12 hours - Ugh ugh ugh. 12-13 - hmmmm... this is interesting13-15 - holy. Mother. Effing. Crap. I can't. It's just. F*ck. I have to read book 2.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
2602327026	I enjoyed reading this as a murder mystery and I appreciate the level of care that Bardugo puts into the world building and atmosphere. She builds intrigue and tension throughout the story, though I can understand why some people might find this too slow for their tastes. The dual storylines are a little hard to follow at first because there's so much to know about the world from the beginning, but I was able to get into the hang of it and just focused on enjoying watching things unravel. Character motivations could use a bit more work, but I think this might be remedied in the sequel now that the world has been set up.
2463847091	This was honestly…. really disappointing.I enjoyed the beginning, the world, the school setting and the magic seemed interesting but it went downhill fast. Soon it was clear that Darlington was the only thing interesting and he wasn’t there for most of the book so… bleh.Generous 2 star. So much potential but did not care for the story at all and frankly the last 3 hours of the audiobook could have simply not existed :/
2966748833	leigh bardugo is synonymous with five stars, as far as im concerned.so believe the hype because its real, its here, and its very adult. alex stern is doing slytherin proud. 🖤🐍____________________________________________the hot trend for 2019 is snakes on covers and it makes me wish i was a slytherin. their brand/culture is t h r i v i n g. ↠ 5 stars
5895328742	ok 3.5🌟This book would've been a 4🌟 but I just had such a HARD TIME getting into this, and honestly it wasn't until like the last 30% that I really started to enjoy this book! I do think I will end up reading hell bent but hopefully we just jump right in because the build up in this was ROUGH! I did end up really liking Alex, she is very complex but a ride or die character and I really love that! Plus I love the whole conspiracy of the secret society of Yale and the setting of the book!
2373840258	the power that that has, the intelligence that that has, the clearance that that has, the access that that has, the influence that that has, the profile that that has, the international implications that that has
2823200261	yall wanna play another round of guess that rating?
5185664167	Ok 4th time reading. Did the audio book this time. Yet again, So freaking good, loved every second of it. This is my COMFORT BOOK.
3077551328	4.5 loved
2760583523	Review to come!
2122101917	oooh, goodreads choice awards semifinalist for BEST FANTASY 2019! what will happen?THIS happened! WINNER! goodreads choice awards best fantasy 2019!There were always excuses for why girls died.i am going to review this carefully, for all of you who were too cool or too civilized to run for copies at BEA and have to wait for october to grab a copy. me, i regret nothing. when i first heard about this book, there was only a little teaser of a synopsis available, and when i finally got my hands on it, i didn’t revisit it or read anything printed on the ARC - i just dove in blind.let’s just say i was unprepared for what this was. i’d assumed, from having read all the bardoogs before this, that this would be set in some fantasy realm which roughly correlated to real-world locations, but was entirely fresh and new and magical. so imagine my surprise to read about this girl kicking it in new haven and eating mamoun’s falafel. mind = blown. those of you who are better about reading what a book is about before you hunker down between its covers will be less surprised, since it pretty clearly states it takes place at yale, but it took me a minute to recalibrate my expectations. not unpleasantly so, by any means.bardugo’s first adult novel is… spectacular. and it is emphatically modern—all of its themes of class and race and gender, all of the female rage and elitist entitlement, and alex stern, my new favorite character, teetering on that knife’s edge of the heroine/antiheroine divide. never fear, there’s plenty of fantasy and magic and all of the brilliance one expects from a bardugo novel, and DAMN, does it have teeth. Alex felt something dark inside her uncoil. “You’re a flat beast,” Hellie had once said to her. “Got a little viper lurking in there, ready to strike. A rattler probably.” She’d said it with a grin, but she’d been right. All this winter weather and polite conversation had put the serpent to sleep, its heartbeat slowing as it grew lazy and still, like any cold-blooded thing.it’s a mystery/horror/fantasy cocktail that packs a serious punch. it is fierce. it is ferocious. it’s all sinuous with iridescent scales and fangs. it ends on a promise of more to come, and i NEED there to be more coming, because i am smitten with alex stern. I let you die. To save myself, I let you die.That is the danger in keeping company with survivors.i will keep company with her any day of the week. if she’ll have me. *************************an easy five stars, with review TK, but to answer your final question, ms. bardugo:ME! ME!! I AM SO READY!!!!!*************************5/29/19update: BEA will not be burned down this year.*************************5/28/19every year, i have a few "if i don't get this at BEA, i will burn down BEA" titles. this year i only have one.*************************9/12/17leigh bardugouniversity secret societiessinister occult activitiesall of the good things at once.come to my blog!
2755129894	This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 “MORS VINCIT OMNIA” ★ This time I decided to bring you my review immediately without the usual RTC because with a rating like that, everyone is curious and many people already asked me to review this one and what my thoughts are on it.★ I need to make some things clear before you come to put my head on a pike! Bardugo is one of my favorite authors, I read all her books, I do own all her books (Including the collector’s edition of SoC and CK) so if you think that I have anything against her then you are wrong. I am just the kind of person who will stick to being honest even if it is my favorite author.★ I also need you to know that I contacted both publishers asking for an E-ARC and I am still waiting for their replies xD. It is like the publishers knew this was not for me. Maybe magic is real after all!★ Another thing is that I do read books across all genres (mostly fantasy and contemporary but I have read and enjoyed all genres out there) so this is probably not a genre problem. I also read MG, YA and recently Adult titles so I have experienced the different writing styles through my reading Journey! I read this book from cover to cover (Including the Acknowledgment and about the author page) So what went wrong? “All you children playing with fire, looking surprised when the house burns down” ★ I don’t know if things went right to begin with, many of my anticipated books this year ended up disappointing me (Recursion, DarkDawn, Aurora Rising…etc) This was my most anticipated book of the year and my expectations were high, I do not know if this affected my experience because a good book will still be good even with high expectations (I had sky-high expectations for The Sword of Kaigen this year and still found it to be AMAZING).★ I got this book immediately when it was released and jumped right in, I did not easily get into the story and started to worry, After 50 pages, I was having a reading crisis and texted my friend David who DNFed the book, he was not happy about that because it was one of his most anticipated books too. We talked a bit and unfortunately, we agreed on many things. I told him I will continue reading, which I did and I was still feeling the same so I went into GR and the reviews mentioned that it gets better after the 100 pages. In the past, I had problems with getting into Bardugo’s books, the first time I read Six of Crows, I was not feeling it and put it aside for later when I came back and it became my favorite duology! But that time, I felt that the book is really good and I was not enjoying it because I was not in the mood. This time I did not feel it was good and I was in the mood so I decided to push through.★ Reading the book through the last 4 days started to feel like a chore and it almost put me in a slump. My reading process was reading a few pages every hour and leaving the book aside, then searching for more GR reviews that were not happy with the book and I agreed with almost every one of them! “People didn’t need magic to be terrible to each other.” ★ The start of the book was shaky, there was a lot of info dump and a lot of intellectual references that I did not understand! I said let’s see what happens after 100 pages, I was still confused and not happy with my reading experience, one of the reviews said that the first 200 pages had a lot of info so I extended that to 200 pages! And my disappointment only extended with that!★ Listen, my point is that if a book needs 200 pages to make me get into the story then that is just too much for me, there are whole complete great stories in under 200 pages so this is not a valid excuse for me writing-wise!★ Anyway, I decide to finish the book, maybe, just maybe there will be light at the end of the tunnel. But at the end of this tunnel, I am surprised by the smell of something fishy, something like the electrical crackle of ozone after a storm. And if you are saying what is wrong with this guy! This was an actual quote from the book! “It left a stink that was something like the electrical crackle of ozone after a storm coupled with the rot of a pumpkin left too long on a windowsill.” ★ Like I don’t believe this is the same author whose quotes fill the profiles of half the YA reader’s bios online! High expectations or was it bad writing, help me decide?★ After 200 pages and the decision to finish it no matter what, I was lost, I could not remember the names of all the secret cults or characters and what role they play due to the afore-mentioned info dump.★ I did not care about the characters, I do not care about Alex or Darlington (Alina and the Darkling as some eagle eyes fans noticed), I did not care about Sandow or Hellie or Dawes. After 200 pages of not connecting to them, there was no redemption from that and they fell flat for me, a meteor could have come out of outer space and killed them and I wouldn’t have batted an eyelash then!★ I have seen this book classified as fantasy, thriller/ mystery, contemporary and even horror. I can understand that because the book tried too many things at once, I think it is supposed to be fantasy mixed with thriller which I think did not work for me, the book was too long for the thriller/ mystery genre. I think it could have been half of this number of pages and that would have been better. “There were always excuses for why girls died” ★ Moving on into a very important thing that everyone is talking about, how dark is this book and the TW! I am sure that this includes dark things: It has multiple rape scenes (Child included), abuse, drugs and eating {Redacted}. But I am not sure why!! I did not think that all of these were needed and I did not think that they moved the plot or added anything to the story in general. Exactly before finishing this one, I was reading Solace Lost which is a grimdark fantasy novel and it has a lot of dark themes and the characters go through a lot and It all made sense to me. My point is: I do not have a problem with those topics or think it is taboo to talk about them, I think it is important to do so but in the right context. I was literally zoning out during a rape scene in Ninth House and then went and read it again, that was how little of an impact it did have on me and I think no rape scene should have this effect.★ Furthermore, I have been reading a lot of adult fantasy recently, I think there is a difference between writing an adult fantasy book vs a YA book. Just like there is a difference between writing MG and YA! I am reading less YA these days and I did want to continue reading my favorite authors. So when some of these authors decided to start writing adult books I was excited. I am not so sure about that now because I think the transition into adult fantasy after spending years and tens of books in writing YA is not as smooth as I thought it would be. The writing in Ninth House felt like a YA novel and many of the older bloggers agree. I think I will consider it YA with very adult themes. But the writing, the characters and plot, all felt YA. “Mors irrumat omnia. Death fucks us all.” ★ Summary: I am writing this review because when I was reading the book, I wanted a review like this one, so this is for all the disappointed future readers. This book turned from my most anticipated read of the year into my most disappointing one. The pacing was slow, the book was boring, the characters were flat and the writing is not as good as I am used to. I still think Bardugo is a great author but it looks like this series is just not for me. There is certainly a pressure to like this one because it is Leigh Bardugo after all but I am not falling into that rabbit hole. I am not saying you should not read this one, because there are certainly people loving it out there, I am saying that if you started it and you can’t get into it, you are not enjoying it and feeling bored, then I felt the same and I am assuring you it does not get significantly better. I think I am done with this series but I am still interested in Bardugo’s novels in the Grishaverse!You can get more books from Book Depository
3074938721	An absolutely brilliant read. I found myself completely taken by the blend of examining social issues and well-realized occult themes. This was my first read for Leigh Bardugo, and it has absolutely convinced me to read more from her in the future. Ninth House is flat out brilliant. There is a reason Stephen King called it one of the best fantasy books he has read in recent years. "best fantasy I’ve read in years" - King The main protagonist is well-realized and motivated. The world is our own but twisted enough to draw out a dark fascination from any reader. You MUST know just how deep these dark elements go. How will this mystery play out? These elements come together to become one of the most addicting reads of the year. Full Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GfKL...
5583791347	is it really autumn without a dark academia read? i think the fuck not 😌💅🏽💅🏽
2756024964	OOF talk about disappointment.I’ve been waiting for this book to come out ever since its release was announced so you can imagine just how annoyed I am. I tried SO hard to finish at least half of the book but I just could not.I’m not gonna lie, I just cannot believe Leigh Bardugo wrote this. The same author who wrote Six Of Crows, wrote this? Nah.All the 200 pages I read, I didn’t have a single clue about what was happening. Didn’t know who (or what) this Dante was, realized halfway through that Alex hadn’t finished highschool and that was rescued from a life of misery blah blah.In all of this mess, it’s kind of hard to give a damn about Yale’s secret societies.
2776918418	Many thanks to Macmillan Audio for sending me a copy in exchange for an honest review[12/10/19] - Congratulations, Leigh Bardugo, on winning the 2019 Goodreads Choice Award for Fantasy!!!-----------I totally forgot to tell you guys that, in an interview at the end of my audio file, Leigh stated: "I am, alas, not a shapeshifter but if you give me a large pizza I can shift into a slightly bigger version of myself." if that's not the biggest mood ever...----------- ”It is only through mystery and madness that the soul is revealed” So, do you ever have those moments that just kind of shatter your identity and how you view yourself? Well, that’s me right now. We all know how much I hated Six of Crows. My feelings morphed from bitterness to joy. It truly is fun to hate with a passion. But we’re not talking about Six of Crows. We’re talking about Ninth House. I’d honestly like to pretend that Six of Crows never happened because this book was the exact opposite. Entertaining, scary, gripping and full of superbly written characters. So, what’s this book about? Galaxy “Alex” Stern is the most unlikely member of Yale’s freshman class. Raised in the Los Angeles hinterlands by a hippie mom, Alex dropped out of school early and into a world of shady drug dealer boyfriends, dead-end jobs, and much, much worse. By age twenty, in fact, she is the sole survivor of a horrific, unsolved multiple homicides. Some might say she’s thrown her life away. But at her hospital bed, Alex is offered a second chance: to attend one of the world’s most elite universities on a full ride. What’s the catch, and why her? Still searching for answers to this herself, Alex arrives in New Haven tasked by her mysterious benefactors with monitoring the activities of Yale’s secret societies. These eight windowless “tombs” are well-known to be haunts of the future rich and powerful, from high-ranking politicos to Wall Street and Hollywood’s biggest players. But their occult activities are revealed to be more sinister and more extraordinary than any paranoid imagination might conceive. ➵ Galaxy “Alex” Stern - As I mentioned earlier, this book is full of great characters but Alex, who, yes, just happens to be the main character, was the best in this whole book. Alex is, as Darlington said, stating the obvious, “not what she seems”. Alex Stern can see ghosts, or Grays as they are called in this world. Now, she’s not the only one who can see Grays but her abilities with the Grays are not at all what they seem. Aside from her powers, which are f**king awesome, Alex is also selfish. As with most of the selfish characters, I study, she is selfish for a reason. She is defending herself. Since childhood, Alex has believed herself to be crazy because she can see the Grays while no one else around her can. I really loved Alex’s character ARC and I cannot wait to see it explored further in book two which had better be coming soon. WE’RE COUNTING ON YOU, LEIGH! Another reason you should read this is the world-building. Something Leigh Bardugo has always been talented at, (Yes, even in Six of Crows) is world-building. In this contemporary world, ghosts exist and they are called Grays. There is also magic and all sorts of other supernatural sh*that was an absolute blast to read. Even better than the world-building was the setting. This book was set at Yale University, which, as she stated in her interview at the end of the audiobook, Leigh actually attended! The atmosphere was very cozy yet chilling and unsettling. I honestly don’t think there could have been a better setting for this novel. Finally, I loved the plot. Unlike Six of Crows, it actually took off and went somewhere. You should know that the first half is slow(ish) but strap in and wait because the second half is a total rollercoaster of emotional plot twists. Overall, this novel is a stunning, atmospheric and chilling novel for fans of Riverdale and the The Hazel Wood. Both old and new fans will be amazed by this work of art. Final Note: This book IS NOT YOUNG ADULT. I cannot stress it enough. Both Leigh and her publishers have classified this as New Adult and it should be viewed as so, because it goes to some very dark, very heavy places. Bottom Line:4.5 StarsAge Rating: [ R ]Content Screening (Spoilers) - Educational Value (2/5): [Mythology and history of magic, Demonology] ~ Positive Messages (2/5): [Female empowerment] ~Violence (4/5): [Body horror, gore, rape, physical assault] ~ Sex (3/5): [Rape, discussion of sex] ~ Langauge (3/5): [Sh*t, f**k, d*mn, Asshole] ~ Drinking/Drugs (4/5): [Medicinal drugs, magical drugs, overall a ton of drug usage] TW: Rape, (Magical) Rape Drugs, PTSD, Death, Murder, Suicide, RacismReps: [Disability]Cover: 5/5 ~ Characters: 4/5 ~ Plot: 4/5 ~ Audio: 4/5 (I love Lauren Fortgang)Publication Date: October 8th, 2019Publisher: Flatiron, an imprint of Macmillan********I, the passionate hater of Six of Crows, loved this book. brb, while I have an identity crisis********And so it begins. Will I love it or will I hate it? We shall have to wait and see.********at this point, i'm more than intrigued. i'm excited********Even though I hate Six of Crows, I'm intrigued..-----------➵ Ninth House - ★★★★★| Goodreads | Blog | Pinterest | LinkedIn | YouTube | Instagram
3082057272	If I have to describe this book in a single word, it would be “solid”. Well planned, well executed, with (almost) no cracks that could make it fall apart. This is my first Bardugo book, and while it did nothing to convince me to try her other works, I’ll definitely keep an eye on this series.Ninth House is one of the best books I’ve read in a while, but don’t worry—I’ll still find stuff to complain about, as usual ;) What the book gets right Ghost, magic, mythology, and a unique, brave heroine, fighting to overcome trauma and fears. We dive deep into the occult, into the ancient (real life!) houses of Yale, and the Night House assigned to monitor them: Lethe, named after the river of forgetfulness in Greek Mythology. The sons and daughters of Lethe, who bear titles inspired by Dante’s Divine Comedy, plunge into magic way beyond anyone’s skills or understanding.Through Alex we see an excellent examination of how child abuse works. Her first abuser is a ghost. No one else can see him, no one else knows he is real. I found it a great parallel to what happens in real life. The abusers are often “invisible” just like ghosts. They appear as normal, nice, cheerful people to everyone else. Only the children see the truth, just like Alex is the only one to see the ghosts, but no one takes them seriously.Alex herself is a wonderful character. She may not be educated, but she’s smart. She is adaptable and thinks on her feet. And, most of all, she takes initiative even if she doesn’t have to, and, especially, if she doesn’t want to. There are so many points when she can choose to do nothing, when it’s not just the easier, but also safer and much more comfortable course of action, but she always keeps digging, investigating, pushing. And she’s smart enough to know whom to trust and to suspect everyone. Even if she misses some hints, she still sees a lot and makes connections.The book goes deep into discussions of power and privilege and the cycle of abuse. Some might be quick to judge people like Alex, recovering addicts, dropouts, petty thieves, with skin covered in ink. But she’s ended up where she is for a good reason and not many in her shoes would have fared better. At the end, she’s fought harder to get where she is than the rich boys at Yale.The mythology runs deep, woven into the characters and into the town itself. I especially loved the trips to the borderlands. Mystical and absolutely epic.We see amazing character growth from everyone: policemen, grumpy grad students and pompous ghosts. No problem has an easy or a magical solution. Alex needs to take risks and suffer the consequences, though the victories and discoveries are worth it.I have to admit at one point I got strangely creeped out. I was reading about Yale’s secret societies and ghosts and magic, all the while doing tons of packing and unpacking. As I recently mentioned , I’m in the process of relocating to Denmark. I’ve been going though all my things, sorting them, deciding what to throw away and what to pack, when I came across this Yale cap:What. Is. This. Honestly, I had no memory of ever buying this cap and where it had come from. And then I’m reading about ghosts and Yale and all, and it pops out. But after I spent some time freaking out, I forced my brain to work and to sort through the memories.When I was studying in the US, I spent a summer doing nuclear physics research at Yale. I wasn’t thinking too much of that time while reading this book; I have really good memories from the town of New Haven, but the only thing I remember from the Yale campus was that in the lab there were men’s bathrooms on every floor, but the women’s bathrooms were only here and there and I have to walk several floors to reach them every time. Not cool.Anyway, one of the professors there gave us these caps as souvenirs. It had somehow disappeared throughout the years, and I had completely forgotten about its existence. But I guess I got lucky with this gift—blue is my color. Usually I get gifts in orange :-/I was surprised to see most readers mention Darlington as their favorite character. I personally found Alex, Dawes and Turner better developed, but to each their own.I was also surprised some readers found this book boring or confusing. I thought it was a page-turner, the mix of past and present keeping us guessing all the time, giving us just the right amount of information to have our own theories but not to know everything. I guess people are comparing this book to the author’s other works and expected something else, but it’s a very different genre. And, as I mentioned, it’s my first Bardugo book, so I had no expectations.Perhaps I should talk about this as well… Why is this my first and only book by Leigh Bardugo I’ve wanted for some time to check out this author’s works, but it didn’t seem like an option for me before this book came along. I haven’t read her Grisha novels, but from what I hear, they seem to belong to the category of infuriatingly disrespectful, badly researched books that throw in pseudo-Slavic, pseudo-cultural references and incorrectly used and nonsensical words and names (which I should have already guessed from the universe name itself). And this type of books makes me want to break my Kindle.And I don’t care how great the characters and the plot might be. I’m in the middle of a complicated relocation, and I can’t afford a new Kindle right now. So, for the sake of my nerves and my Kindle, I have no plans to get anywhere near these books. I don’t want to support lazy “research” in any way; in my opinion, authors need to do better.That’s why I was happy to finally see she’s written a book about a culture she’s supposedly familiar with, and I finally got a chance to see what the hype is all about. Did Ninth House change my mind to avoid the Grishaverse? Did I think this book gets the cultural stuff right? Yes… and no. Yale student life is well represented, which is no surprise. And yet, I had to wonder why all students we meet are American, given that the student population at Yale is 20% international.Sadly, this was an unfortunate trend I noticed when I was studying in the US. There was a huge divide between US and non-US students: separate activities, separate tables at the dining hall, separate friend groups, and (once we got the chance to choose our roommates) separate rooms. A few open-minded individuals were breaking barriers, but for the most part we lived in a parallel world, most of the US students not noticing we existed. And books like this one remind me we were indeed invisible.It’s especially strange because during the summer I spent doing research at Yale, the US students were far and between (to be precise, two out of thirty-something.) It’s true that this was the nuclear physics program, which tends to be more international, but still I’d imagine there would be some cultural diversity in the rest of the university as well.Any non-US stuff the book touches on remains superficial. It’s hinted that Alex’s grandma is a Sephardic Jew, but this doesn’t affect Alex’s upbringing or behavior in any way. Which I feel is a missed opportunity since it’s related to the author’s own background and she would have probably done it justice, and we could have easily seen an exciting new world. And everything else remains a lazy stereotype. One of the societies tries to open a portal to Hungary but instead ends up with the room smelling of goulash. Seriously? And then we meet the dean’s Ukrainian housekeeper who speaks in broken English.That last one felt especially lazy. Yes, there are Eastern European women who work as housekeepers in the west and don’t speak the local language fluently. And there are also these women who are highly educated, hold PhD’s and are fluent in multiple languages, but still work as housekeepers because their degrees aren’t recognized. And there are those who are students, or successful professionals. I’ve met plenty of women from each of these four categories when I’ve lived in the US and UK, and yet the first one is the only one we ever see in fiction. Such stereotypes cause harm in real life and I believe literature should be challenging them, not reinforcing them.Did this book convince me that Bardugo is a skilled writer? You bet. Did it convince me she can write about cultures she is not directly familiar with? No, and I still have no intention to read her Grisha books. Anything I didn’t like? Not much to put here. There were a handful of minor inconsistencies, e.g.:- Detective Turners asks Alex “Who did Tripp say he saw with Tara?” but Alex never mentions to him Tripp’s name. She just says she has names of people from other societies, but never reveals her source.- Alex recalls a story where a mean schoolmate asks her to meet up to talk to a dead relative. First time she remembers the story, she says she had to call her mom to pick her up immediately. The second time it turns out she met the older kids who introduce her to weed - The first time Alex uses the coin of compulsion, she has no idea how long it would work. She uses the second coin shortly after and says she has 30 minutes. We’ve been with her the whole time and never see her look it up, so how does she suddenly know?Overall, nothing major, and some of these could be attributed to an unreliable narrator, but I feel such high profile books need to have better editing in general. Final verdict It’s rare that I read a book and nothing bugs me. Sometimes it’s the writing, sometimes the character development, sometimes the plot. But here, everything was perfect. My only complains were related to poor representation of non-dominant cultures, but I had no problems with the writing quality itself. The book was an exciting page-turner, unique, bold, risky, innovative. While Alex was clearly The Chosen One, the story didn’t feel derivative and played with exciting, new ideas.I read Ninth House in the span of two calendar years and four different countries. I think the memory will stay with me for a while.
1876972145	Solid. Good but not great.Most of time I was just confused. This book is non linear in terms of explanation and story. Great pros and cons, but there were more misses than hits.Also the amount of people accusing Leigh for these graphic scenes of violence all for shock factor.....this tells me 2 things. 1) They've never read an adult/thriller book with graphic elements before because.....LOL. 2) They're coming from the wave that is YA from Leigh's previous books and this was their, 'dip the foot in' moment for this genre and they're the shocked ones of, 'how dare' and 'what the fuck'. Good god. Hardcore shake of head. Get a grip. This isn't YA, people. Stop treating it like it is one.There's a lot to unpack from this world. We're just outsiders coming in and the system and magic is already set in stone. I can actually see more than just two books set in this world.I guess the biggest question would be: would this book have exploded on twitter and gotten all the rants if it wasn't written by Leigh Bardugo? Probably not. It's a dark book, but maybe the first for lots of people. TW: drug use, murder, sexual assault, sexual assault of a child, self-harm.Full review TK.
3089125682	2020 F.A.B. Bookclub pick # I.❤️. F.A.B. This book was a trip. There’s so much going on. I got a Veronica Mars vibe from Alex... but on a whole other level. Ghosts and magic and demons and witchcraft and secret societies... it’s a lot.
3032725098	I came, I read, I didn't understand a god damn thing.This book is like one giant pretentious information dump with a flavorless cast.2 Stars out of reverence for the woman that gave us Six of Crows et al.
3727586902	When this book was released, I just knew I wasn’t going to like it so I never added it to my tbr. However, I was seeing lately positive reviews of it and thought why not. After all, it won the GR 2019 FANTASY awards. Now I’m not sure if they mistook best for worst. DNF at 60% and if a book failed to make me even mildly interested by the 60% mark then I can very much 1 star it and not give it my extra benefit of the doubt star. And anyway, my friend told me the ending and it wasn’t worth finishing the book for it. ALSO, LOT’S OF TW/CW!! Can we normalize counting drug use as such (I don’t see it mentioned enough)? And oh, rape by supernatural beings. I really wouldn’t have read this book if I knew Alex used to take heroin shots. I don’t like reading about drug users because authors rarely portray the reality (will explain that later on). So yes, I do have lots of anger towards this book. It won the 2019 best fantasy awards for goodness’ sake! Before I start, let me clear out one thing:I love fantasy. I love Urban fantasy, it’s one of my most read fantasy subgenres. I also like dark academia. I also enjoyed Soc by Leigh Bardugo. Thus, I didn’t dislike this book for any of those reasons or I’m not a “fan” of Bardugo (I wouldn’t say I am but also not why I didn’t like this one). It’s also not an “it’s me not you” case. Ninth House is simply not a good book.So let’s see. Why isn’t it a good book?1- It’s so painfully obvious that this is written by a YA author. Such authors (SJM included) don’t write “adult” books. They try to make their books look and sound adult. At least in their first tries. At the bottom, this book has obvious YA vibes. But it can’t be shelved as such for sure. Other than the fact that the main characters are over 18, ugly stuff happens:- A 12 yo is graphically raped by a ghost (wtf? I was shocked enough that I didn’t feel anything but what. the. fuck.) ARE YOU KIDDING ME? I mean… why? It’s disturbing and messed up but not in a way that impresses readers… it was completely useless and only serves to make that character have a “tragic” past more than she already does. - Alex used drugs to mute the Grays (ghosts) that only she can see. Okay, look. I’m very uptight about drugs. I have witnessed firsthand what it can lead to: suicide. But a lot of times former drug users go to rehab and overcome their addiction. It is not an easy process. And yet, our dear Alex never suffered from withdrawal! Never felt addiction! Of course, she’s too strong for that! It never even occurred to Bardugo that drugs lead to addiction even if the person was the main character! This pissed me off especially because it was mentioned that Alex has used “needles”.2- the boredom. Oh, it’s so so so boring. I could’ve stopped at any point and did not give a shit about what happens to the characters. 3- While Alex wasn’t annoying, I didn’t feel anything towards her (nor Darklington -ha- for that matter). I was unimpressed. She’s a character that lacks depth and I didn’t find anything to like about her.4- Did I mention that I didn’t care about anything in this book? Not the characters, not the plot, and certainly not the world-building.5- I don’t think a 480 pages book as big but in Ninth House, very little happens. Very very little. I also think that the dual timelines didn’t work well for this book. It would’ve been better if everything was told in chronological order, maybe then I would’ve cared about Darlington’s disappearance. Seriously, I can sum up the pages I read in a few paragraphs while covering everything important.6- For someone with a such a traumatic past, Alex’s trauma only pops up when it would serve the plot to make it more dramatic. Speaking of which, lots of failed drama in this book. Bardugo tried to make some events “shocking” or “horrifying” yet she was trying too hard and it showed.7- I really can’t name one thing I liked. Not even the Dark Academia. Maybe if it wasn’t for the monotonous note of the book, I would’ve been more interested but yet another aspect of Ninth House that didn’t impress me. At all. Briefly, I truly don’t understand the rave and hype surrounding this book. I rarely DNF books and yet I couldn’t read one more page. I even switched to the audio but I realized that I’m truly wasting my time by forcing myself to read a book I don’t like. Unexperienced readers of the “adult” genre might find this book “fancy” “refreshing” “appealing” and while I think it good for them (after all I really wanted to like this book too), it’s certainly ridiculous for me. There’s a billion light-years difference between this book and the UF giants and even “adult” fantasy books written by established authors in this genre. I had no idea this book is going to be such a mess or I wouldn’t have read it in the first place.Am I being harsh? Maybe. But this book gained so much popularity. I’m pretty sure the fact that it’s written by Bardugo made many readers see the book in a different light. And yet, so many better adult fantasy books out there with fewer sales and much higher quality. But when was the publishing world fair? Never I think. Also, it won GR choice awards so yeah, I won’t be nice. This book sucked and I don’t recommend it if you haven’t guessed that already.
7690921470	The garden of eden may be empty but hell is always openIf i can not bend heaven, i will raise hell.Dude this book was a rollercoaster.It follows the story of alex (alexandra) who can see ghosts and is on the verge of dying but is recruited to yale because of her super powerShe represents the ninth house of yale aka the last secret society which controls the other eight societies I let you die, to save myself i let you die.Death fucks us all. Anyway i think the author didn’t know what she was doing and i got a bit bored in the middle because she was just explaining the nexuses of societies and kinda fumbled the main stage line but overall i ate it up I class profanity with declarations of love.This book was so disturbing and there wasn’t even a single tw so some are listed below.Homocide,suicide, extreme drug use, prostitution, child rape, rape by both ghosts and humans, child abuse,somnophilia,blood play,child trafficking and sacrification,incestous rape ,eating disorders, eating shit(this one was so disturbing for me) and other things like Voyeurism,exhibitionism and paraphilias.Didn’t someone say that love is a shared delusion?
5896307791	This is a masterpiece. Museum quality.Ninth House is the standard for adult dark academia. It has all the necessary elements: murder. ghosts. occult practices. witchy rituals. MAGIC. money. power. secret societies. friendship. more murder. FMC with a traumatic past. more magic. more murder. golden boy MMC. a mysterious disappearance. second chances. gothic vibes. fall vibes. Did I mention murder and magic? THE MOST INCREDIBLE WRITING. This is 10/10 beautiful and talented writing wrapped in a dark, creepy, and witchy package. 📚🖤🐍🔮💀🪦”That was what magic did. It revealed the heart of who you’d been before life took away your belief in the possible.” Ninth House makes you think. This isn’t a book you can read or absorb quickly. This is quality literature that forces active intellectual engagement to keep up with the sheer and utter brilliance in both the plot and writing style. Former addict Alex Stern is tapped to take over a specific role in Yale’s Lethe Society, which is the society created to monitor the other eight societies who are all engaged in secret magic and occult rituals. Her job is basically to make sure the other societies don’t step out of line during their rituals, and to keep the Grays (GHOSTS!) that constantly float around campus from interfering. Most people have to take an elixir to see Grays, but she was born with the gift. Her mentor is Yale senior Daniel Arlington, who shows her the ropes and helps her navigate this secret world of magic and witchcraft and who also has been doing some secret research of his own……Alex is a badass with a traumatic past who stopped believing in herself and stopped giving a damn about the real her because she was taught that who she was inside was somehow bad. There’s more to her than even this book reveals. She’s trained herself to the hide the real her behind a facade of normalcy, but slowly learns to reveal herself due to the events that unfold with Lethe House and the other secret societies. And the unveiling of Alex Stern is wickedly good.”Alex felt something dark inside her uncoil. ‘You’re a flat beast,’ Hellie had once told her. ‘Got a little viper lurking in there, ready to strike. A rattler probably.’ She’d said it with a grin, but she’d been right. All this winter weather and polite conversation had put the serpent to sleep, it’s heartbeat slowing as it grew lazy and still, like any cold-blooded thing.” 🖤🐍💀Every. single. detail. matters. PAY ATTENTION. The answers are scattered from the beginning because Leigh Bardugo is brilliant. You will be addicted to trying to piece all of the intricate facets of this story together. At one point I asked myself, how is this seemingly random, particular subplot relevant? Is it just that—a random subplot? But no. It ended up being the secret to the entire thing. It’s so incredible and addictive. Yes there’s murder and all that, but I’d risk it to live in this book. I read this for fall and witchy vibes and got so. much. more. One of my new favorites, possibly a forever favorite. I know this is fiction, but it’s also somehow completely believable. And I simply refuse to believe parts of this story aren’t secretly true. Leigh Bardugo went to Yale and was a member of Wolf’s Head and is also a genius. You cannot convince me that occult shit does not go down in these Ivy League secret societies. Of course she wouldn’t just spill all the actual, real secrets but don’t try to convince me tiny parts of this aren’t based however loosely on real life. With the level of brilliance required to write this, there definitely could have been some ritual involvement from Aurelian House wink wink. And if we find out in a hundred years that prognostications to predict world events are real, I wouldn’t bat an eye.PS-spoiler free, but just leaving this here. JEAN DU MONDE!?!? JONATHON DESMUND!?!? Holy hell. Thank god I read this after book two already came out or else I’d rip my hair out. 5 stars.
2653527052	3.5 stars "That was what magic did. It revealed the heart of who you'd been before life took away your belief in the possible. It gave back the world all lonely children longed for." I was SO excited for Leigh Bardugo's first adult novel, and I did really enjoy it! It had so many elements that I loved (college setting, ghosts, complex characters etc.), however the pacing was not my favourite. It was very slow at times and it's pretty dense so it did take me quite a while to get through. SUPER excited for the next book (that ending!!!!)Please note this is a very dark book with a lot of content warnings including drug use, murder, sexual assault, child rape, self-harm.Thank you so much to Hachette Australia for providing me with an ARC!
2878212703	2.5 starsSo. Um. This was a letdown. I want to preface this review by saying that it very well could have just been a me problem because I typically don't read thriller/mysteries. I thought because this book was written by Leigh Bardugo, I would automatically enjoy whatever she wrote. But in the case of Ninth House, I feel like she tried to do too much all at once, and so I came out of the book not quite comprehending what just occurred. This book was initially easy to get into just because of the thrill of finally having it in my hands, but after that, I had a hard time returning to it every time I put it down. The first 200 pages drag a LOT as it sets up the world and delves into some of the characers' backstories, and even after lots of reveals and twists, I was never really excited to get back to this story. The main reason for that is because I don't quite understand what I just read. Maybe everything was actually explained somewhere and I just didn't read the information because the world building was so dry, but if you asked me to give you a summary of what the cults are and who the characters are and how the mystery was solved, I'd just be like ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ I liked Alex and Darlington, the two people who we mainly focused on, but I feel like Bardugo didn't dive into their character development enough. I hesitate comparing this to her earlier works because I know it's in another vein entirely, but if you're expecting to get attached to these characters like the cast of Six of Crows, I didn't get that at all. I can see where Bardugo tried, though: Darlington had flashback chapters to show his side of the story, but they were so boring and irrelevant. Alex also had moments of going back in her story to show where she came from, but I feel like the synopsis tells more about her than the book actually does. I wish this book could have started at an earlier point in the semester so we can see the characters grow in real-time rather than the constant perspective shifts and change in the timeline.This book wasn't awful by any stretch, but my lasting impression of it is going to be that I didn't really understand what this was trying to do. The mystery felt very low stakes and I wasn't sure where Alex's motivation lay in solving it. (I also might just be salty because there were two mysteries occurring simultaneously and this book chose to solve the more boring one.) This review could totally be my reaction based on being a newbie to the genre, but I feel like a lot of people are going to read this just because it has Bardugo's name attached to it, so I'm interested to see if I'm the only one who feels like this was a half-baked story with confusing world building.
2822409879	3.75 starstw: rape; murder; child molestation; physical and emotional abuse from partner; grooming; gore; possession; drug abuse; overdose; death of a friendMe last year would not have been able to read this book, and here I am. This book does have a number of triggers, as listed above, many of which happen to our protagonist. However, to me, this was not gratuitous or done for shock value and was more about the trauma this character has endured. The dark academia setting of the school and the magical societies was one of the best parts. The book did start out rather slow with setting all of this up, and that is one of the things that docked points for me. But the later half of the book builds on not only the setting but a series of entwined mysteries. This plot made me so nostalgic for the urban fantasy genre, which this definitely took inspiration from. Another piece I really enjoyed was that although this was very much fantastical/paranormal, it felt rooted in humanity. The villains were so human in their atrocities, and the interpersonal dynamics were all so real, even with this backdrop of magic. It shows the effects of power in the wrong hands. The characters grew on me towards the end, but did take some time. I ultimately did enjoy our protagonist by the end, and appreciated how empowered she was. Her power within the story was actually what made content that would normally be triggering for me be bearable in this case. This was a solid enough start to a series for me and I'm intrigued enough to continue. I did film a reading vlog for this book with all of my spoiler-y thoughts as well!
3012151868	Yes. She does it with her writing......***Of course, trigger warning for rape scenes, drugs, gory descriptions, forceful human excreta consumption under the influence of drugs, extreme child neglect, eating disorders, and so many forms of abuse, and then there's bullying. But they won't leave you scarred for life. These scenes won't haunt you for the rest of your life, including tonight's sleep. But yes, we need less of these. Actually most of the crucial scenes happen under the influence of drugs which I feel is the main thing I really dislike about this book. Somehow I felt like drugs have been unnecessarily glorified in this one. And I really despise any kind of childish celebration of taking some childish 'revenge'. For adult-fantasy's sake, this was so not worth it. And I didn't feel liberated or happy that revenge has been taken or that the main character has done something good. Murder mystery well written.Bardugo has a way of getting us sucked in her writing whether we would like her characters or not or even the plot holds good or not. It's the intense character development and the vivid situations that are described so well that made this one work for me. However, I couldn't help thinking like this book is a cup of tea which is made up of numerous sips and each sip being described so painfully well that you start balancing your thoughts whether you swallow the sip or just spit it out. I love the details. I love how the mystery has been built up attached to each of the characters involved. (You never know which one it would be but yet you know so well who it was all along!) This made the read really good. The writing style is superb. It just knows when to grip you and make you fall; when to tire your mind so much to let it find its cozy place to return back to your most favourite character.I loved the first half of the book so much! Like freaking too much. The pain of the characters is real. The confusion is real. The brokenness and the deceit. The magic and the curse-like magic. My sweet dark side!You want to see and feel the goodness of such beings and rituals yet you still go along with all the bad sides of it. You will want to protect them yet you are okay that they are throwing themselves in such situations.The mystery is there yet you know what it is all along. I have a passive agressive relationship with Bardugo's characters. Honestly. This is the first book by the author that I have completed reading. I have tried reading all her other books but I ended up being either too cynical or too much of I-don't-really-care regarding the characters. I know I will go back to them someday but yes, I know I will have the same kind of passive agressive feelings towards them. They feel too real in this way. My most favourite character turns out to be Pamela/Dawes. The way she was introduced, and how she turned out to be, how supportive and caring, being the undoubtedly beautiful and mysterious one the entire time. And then there's Darlington. I miss him so much! Is it too much to ask for him? I need him. And yes, about the main character. Alex (Galaxy). The craziness that made the book work. But I cannot get close to her. Well written, Bardugo. She is prickly yet you cannot ignore her. So many things keep happening. There's a lot of information regarding the magic and the world and the various characters. But it's okay. You get used to it really fast. The second half was a bit too dragging that I had to stop reading in between to cure the mild headache I was having because of it. The tea sips in these parts needed to be just spit out. And not swirled inside the mouth until there's no taste left. But the last few chapters picked up soon and the book ended well. I hope to see Darlington in all his glory being in the sequel. I miss him so much already!And sadly, he is the only character I could relate with, and got attached to. I need more of this character. *What Leigh Bardugo does well:The action and crime scenes are done exceptionally well. They are vivid and pulsing. *I couldn't like the characters or the plot as much as I wanted to. No, I wasn't overhyped about this book. No, I wasn't expecting too much from this book. Some sentences were so overly written and repetitive that I could really see the desperate attempts to make this book longer. Some of the characters were really unlikable (we all know they were meant to be disliked but their description wasn't that convincing. Specifically of the main character.)✨One glance review:Cover:❤️❤️Character development: ❤️❤️❤️Chemistry between the characters: ❤️❤️❤️❤️Plot: ❤️❤️Writing style: ❤️❤️❤️❤️Magic system/world development: ❤️❤️❤️Mystery element: ❤️❤️Romance: NONEThe ending: ❤️❤️❤️Cliffhanger vibes:❤️❤️*If there's no Darlington in the sequel, I don't think I will continue with the series. Reading this one gave me headache, full blown ones, because of the suffocating scenes and overbearing characters. And yes, Bardugo, let there be less of abuse and less of forced human shit eating. Even if I hated that character really bad, this is not acceptable.**Did someone mention that it's an adult fantasy? The hype tag for this book?But the characters were poorly represented as adults except for the mere mention of their ages. But I was so sure I was reading a YA book. Because they were so like middle grade kids growing up. *What I felt just after reading this book:I don't want to talk about it. **5 seconds later:I have to talk about it because I loved one character.***The more I think about it, the more I want to lower the rating.
3613600483	2.5 starsYou know those books that are based on something cool at the core that you reaaaaaally want to like but they're just about 300 pages longer than they need to be because the author wanted to cram in all the little details that would make the book seem steeped in realism?That's Ninth House in a nutshell.I mean, parts of it are good but there's a lot of boring packed into this one, and it took a long time to get anywhere interesting. The pacing was so goddamn sloooooooow that I think the story would have really benefitted from a good chop to the page count.And the magic societies were kind of lame. Or if not lame, less awesome than I would have hoped. Whiny rich kids manipulating the stock market and picking what single goes to #1 on the charts?Ehhhh.The two main characters - Alex & Darlington? Neither was super likable. Not that I have to like characters to enjoy a book. But both of them were kind of off-putting as people. And they both had good reason, I guess. But every time I'd think that I felt a bit of sympathy for either of them, they'd do or say something that would just take me back to square one.I don't know. I just couldn't muster up any sort of feelings of kinship with them.Now, by the end? I liked Alex a lot more. And Darlington...? Well, I wish him the best.So the gist is that this girl, Alex, can see ghosts. Now because of this, she's been horribly misunderstood as a child, had some terrible things happen to her, ended up on drugs & living with awful people, and eventually wound up in the middle of a murder that left her boyfriend and best friend dead. Enter Leafy.<--I listened to the audiobook and had to look it up. It's actually Lethe, but while I was listening to it I was like, what the fuck kind of secret society calls itself LEAFY?Lethe is the 9th House that sort of supervises the magic that all the other (real) Houses do, in order to keep them from killing hobos. <--I'm really not joking.And since Alex can see ghosts these guys want her to become the new Dante (it's a stupid code name) for their house. This comes with a full ride to Yale and a new start. Which looks pretty good when you wake up in a hospital and find out everyone you lived with is dead. <--naturally, there's way more to that story, but you have to read the book to find out what it is.Anyway.According to this, all of the secret societies (Scroll and Key, Skull and Bones. etc.) are steeped in magic, available to the rich and famous, and alive and well at Yale University. There's a lot of research that Bardugo must have done for this book, and it shows.Unfortunately, not necessarily in a good way for someone like myself. There was too much crunchy wah, wah, wah history of New Haven, and not enough cool/spooky magic stuff. And it's really hard for me to wade through a lot of who-gives-a-fuck and come out on the other end of it smiling.Don't get me wrong, there were some excellent bits to Ninth House, so it's not like I hated it or anything.The book ended on a cliffhanger (which was fine) but I'm not sure if I'll keep going with this series or not. It really picked up during the last bit, so I guess I'll just wait and see.Lauren Fortgang - NarratorMichael David Axtell - Narrator
6557286725	･:*:･ﾟ⁀➷ 4/5 ★OMG THIS WAS SO GOOD 🤭🤭 Leigh Bardugo never disappoints- i loved this sm!! 🥹🖤➷ “Mors irrumat omnia. Death fucks us all.”Tropes:🕯️Dark academia🕯️University setting🕯️Adult fantasy🕯️Dual timelineThe grishaverse novels have such a special place in my heart, so i was so intrigued to try leigh bardugo’s adult series. And it did not disappoint- i ate this book up! 🫶Before I get into the review, be warned that this book is very dark and mature and i would highly recommend checking the trigger warnings before going in (i’ve put a few of them below). There is quite a lot of upsetting subject matter, so i think it’s important to know that before going in.⚠️ Trigger warnings: drug dealing, graphic descriptions of death & corpses, overdose, racism, self-harm, sexual assault (flashbacks), rape (including statutory and child, graphic), forced consumption of human waste⚠️ Now let’s get into my thoughts! 🕯 ೃ⁀➷ Writing & plot:Leigh Bardugo’s writing style has got to be one of my all time favs bc it is just SO. STUNNING. 😩😩 It definitely had a darker tone in this book than in her ya books, but it was still so good! The descriptive style of writing developed the atmosphere in this book PERFECTLY. Because it was set against the backdrop of a university with lots of creepy magic & murder, the dark academia vibes were immaculate ✨️ This is the kind of book that absolutely requires a cosy sweater, cup of tea and rainy weather while reading it 🕯And the plot was so good!! It did take me a little bit to get into it and be warned, the first 150 pages or so are very confusing as you’re being introduced to a very complicated magic system & tons of characters. But after that, I was hooked and couldn’t put it down. The murder mystery plot was really interesting and the ending was crazy too!! I’m running to start the sequel 🏃‍♀️➷ “I want to survive this world that keeps trying to destroy me.”ೃ⁀➷ Characters:The characters in this book were soo interesting. They did a lot of very questionable things & weren’t necessarily likeable, but they were just so layered and well-developed ✨️➵ Alex: she was honestly such an interesting fmc. She definitely made some choices that i didn’t agree with and is sometimes very difficult to root for, but at the same time, the circumstances in her life have definitely shaped her. She has been through sm trauma and her backstory is so horrific that it makes sense that she isn’t the most moral or likeable person. Her character had so many layers and I’m intrigued to see what she does in book 2. ➵ Darlington: tell me why he was barely in this book and yet i’m still kinda obsessed with him… 👀🤭 i can’t even tell you why, but he was such a fascinating and almost magnetic character. I was eating up all the scenes he was in and i need more of him in hell bent!! The picture of this disgustingly overeducated, dark-haired man in my head was so attractive tho- 😮‍💨😮‍💨➷ “That was what magic did. It revealed the heart of who you'd been before life took away your belief in the possible. It gave back the world all lonely children longed for.”ೃ⁀➷ Romance:The romance in this book was literal CRUMBS but i need more of them!! If you’ve read the second book, pls tell me if there’s more romance bc i need them to get together asap 😫➷ “I let you die. To save myself, I let you die.That is the danger in keeping company with survivors.”➷ “But would it have mattered if she’d been someone else? If she’d been a social butterfly, they would have said she liked to drink away her pain. If she’d been a straight-A student, they would have said she’d been eaten alive by her perfectionism. There were always excuses for why girls died.”ೃ⁀➷ In conclusion: I thoroughly enjoyed this one! 🥹🥹 I would highly recommend if you’re looking for:✔️ Stunning writing✔️ Interesting plot✔️ Layered characters✔️ Dark academia I will definitely be reading the sequel asap 🖤✨️《 2024 Challenge: Book 67 of 115 》･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟೃ⁀➷ pre-review:➷ wait how was this so good?! 🤭🤭 i loved the dark academia vibes sm and the story was soo interesting 🖤✨️ plus that ending was insane, i need the second one asap!! 😩rtc 🕯･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟೃ⁀➷ preread:➷ I love the grishaverse sm, so I'm super excited to read something else by Leigh bardugo! 🫶🫶 Here for those dark academia vibes 😚🖤
7015787408	what i was going to rate this lived RENT FREE in my head the last couple days. In all honesty, i didn’t give this book enough room to breath; i read it in such broken up chunks over such a long period it didn’t have the impact i think it may have had with my normal reading schedule. But i CANNOT stop thinking of this book and how perfectly it was crafted - like it’s a 5… anything less feels wrong.
3153566402	Heads up on a giveaway: On about Jan. 14, 2021, one of the commenters on this FanLit thread will get a free copy of this book: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/give....Personally I can't recommend this dark urban fantasy but I have a lot of friends who loved it. Review first posted on FantasyLiterature.com:Galaxy “Alex” Stern (the name courtesy of her hippie mother) seems an obvious misfit at prestigious Yale University. Wealth, athletic talent and academic stardom are nowhere to be found in Alex’s life. Instead she’s a high school dropout with a history of dead-end jobs and drug use, and the survivor of a traumatic multiple homicide. But she has a rare talent that to date has brought her nothing but grief: Alex sees the ghosts of dead people.As it turns out, that talent is highly useful to Yale’s eight elite secret societies, and they’ve had their eye on Alex for a while. Each of these houses specializes in a different type of black magic — Skull and Bones, for example, performs ritual vivisections of living people, examining their inner organs to predict stock market changes — and these dark rituals attract ghosts. A ninth Yale house, Lethe, polices the magical activities of those other eight houses and is tasked with keeping the ghosts in check, preventing them from causing chaos. Alex gets a full ride scholarship to Yale, provided that she joins Lethe. When a “townie” girl is murdered, Alex feels compelled to investigate it, gradually unearthing a hidden world of corruption, abuse of privilege and evil.I was warned by a GR friend that Ninth House, Leigh Bardugo’s new contemporary dark fantasy, might be too grim for me, but I was all, I love Leigh Bardugo! I gotta give it a shot! The SIX OF CROWS duology is dark fantasy, so I thought I was prepared.Silly me.Ninth House features an onslaught of horrible events, one piling on the next. The trigger list is almost too long to get into, but it includes the aforementioned vivisection, drug abuse, self-neglect, murder … and that’s just in the parts I read or skimmed. I’m reliably informed that its plot also includes child and statutory rape, other types of sexual assault, and forcible eating of human waste. It’s a deeply unpleasant world that Alex Stern lives in, and I realized fairly quickly that I didn’t want to live in it with her, not even for the few days it would take to read this book.I’m not much of a fan of horror literature in general, and occult horror in particular. You may like Ninth House if you’re a fan of occult horror and are mentally and emotionally up to dealing with the morass of human failings and foul deeds. Ninth House is well-written and detailed, but arguably too detailed and slow-paced. It examines the patriarchy of our society and the unearned privileges of rich white men, who do most (though not all) of the ugly things in this book. Alex herself is a hard-edged survivor, but still struggling to recover from past traumas and to survive the pressures of life at Yale.This is clearly one of those “your mileage may vary” types of books. Know your reading tastes: if you have major qualms, it's probably not for you.
2678798485	Thank you Flatiron Books for gifting me a review copy in exchange for an honest review! “We are the shepherds” I’m trying to write a really calm and professional review here but after reading this book I don’t think there’s a possibility. Ninth House was everything. I read the synopsis of the book once when it came out and never again. I was sold from the first read, and I knew this was going to be a book I wanted to read. I had a feeling that I’d enjoy it. This book is Leigh Bardugo’s first adult book, and let me just say that you definitely will not be disappointed.Ninth House is told from two perspectives, Alex Stern and Darlington. With the two of them (but mostly Alex) we follow their work with the secret societies at Yale. This book was spectacular in every sense of the word. It has everything from horror to magic to deadly societies and ghosts. The story was extremely complex and it had me guessing at every page. I couldn’t put it down even if I wanted to. It’s the kind of book that keeps you hooked and interested until you turn the last page and realize that it’s over.So much happens in this book. I can’t even begin to explain how much there is for you to look forward to. So much mayhem and plot twists. It has been a while since I’ve read a book that has shocked me but this book right here managed to do just that. Multiple times. We follow Alex through most of the book and honestly this girl is a mystery on her own. From trying to solve and investigate the societies to trying to figure out who Alex is and uncovering her life before her joining Yale. Definitely a character who isn’t predictable. And Darlington is another favorite. I would give up everything for him. We only had a few chapters from his perspective but I loved him regardless.One thing is certain though. This book is intoxicating and definitely not a book you can breeze through. Bardugo deals with themes that people shy away from talking about in our societies. She mentioned that it would be disturbing and she was definitely right about that. The book deals with things like gender and racial discrimination, as well as rape on campuses, and how much people with power can get away with. It takes a lot of energy to get through this book. I found myself putting it down a few times just so that I could take a few breaths or to process what went on. Just remember that your mental health is the most important. A lot happens in the book that’s disturbing. It’s my first time reading a book like this to be honest. I know the book won’t be for everyone. It’ll be too heavy at times and if you decide that the book isn’t for you that’s okay. Again, your mental health is the most important.Also, this book is NOT young Adult. The book is classified under adult by the author and her publishers.Trigger Warnings: Rape of a child, sexual abuse, drug abuse, date rape drug, overdose, suicide, self harm, gore, violence, and murder.Find my review on my blog!—————-I GOT AN ARC! 😭❤Thank you Flatiron for the gifted review copy in exchange for an honest review.
2691154857	Dark academia is a genre I have an endless fascination for. The paranormal however? Less so. Bardugo combined the two here to create something entirely new that had me completely enamoured throughout.Protagonist Alex Stern was the perfect blend of vulnerable and feisty to have me rooting for her throughout, the magic that featured had enough roots in reality and laws to back it to ensure me a true believer, and the plot was as twisted and as dark as promised meaning I was consistently engaged as I flew towards the climatic conclusion.
7865318652	A dark academia cOcKtAiL of ghosts, grit and Ivy League occultism—with a twist of trauma!!TW:18+3.45 stars!!!If Yale’s secret societies were already dripping with elitism and mystery, Leigh Bardugo spikes the punch with necromancy, soul-divination and an fmc who sees dead people and doesn’t give a damn about your legacy admissions. This book is a scalpel slicing through the polished veneer of privilege, exposing the rot beneath.And then I found a character who is lowkey ME!!!#meCore✨️✨️✨️Galaxy “Alex” Stern is the kind of protagonist who doesn’t ask for your sympathy—she earns your awe. A dropout with a drug-riddled past and a supernatural gift (she sees “Grays,” aka ghosts), Alex is plucked from the wreckage of her life and dropped into Yale’s Lethe House, the secret society tasked with policing the other, more sinister societies.Why her? Because she’s the only one who can see what others can’t—and she’s not afraid to look.Mors irrumat omnia. Death fucks us all. “The problem with ghosts was that they didn’t always know they were dead.” Eerie, introspective and laced with a kind of existential dread... Pre-Read Thankyou, Levs for recommending the book to me:)
3014794292	This book is superbly misogynistic, racist, and appropriative. It's also incredibly pornographic. Rape is used solely for shock value and spectacle. This is a book that hates women. And Mexicans. The prose is also not good.My review was too long to fit here on Goodreads. So if you are interested in reading my thoughts on "Ninth House," you will need to click on this link to my website --https://melissastacy-thoughtcandy.com...I apologize for the inconvenience. But this book was so awful that I needed the extra space for a full review.
2937036762	Boom! Finished just before the new year 😊3.5 ⭐️ "You couldn't keep sidling up to death and dipping your toe in. Eventually it grabbed your ankle and tried to pull you under." I wasn't sure what to expect when I dove into Leigh Bardugo's first adult novel, but I will say I wasn't disappointed.Alex Stern has been headhunted to work for Lethe, the Ninth House of the secret societies in Yale University. In charge of monitoring the other 8 houses as they meddle in the occult and other dark magical activities. As Alex is thrust into the new world she soon discovers how many secrets there are, and how sinister the people involved can be. When her mentor Darlington goes missing Alex is certain there is more behind these societies than she first thought.Fair warning - this book involves human sacrifice, sexual abuse and drugs just to name a few so be aware if this is something that would affect you. Meanwhile Alex has a past life she has left behind and is keen for it to remain hidden. What happened to her and how far will she go to protect herself and others?I will say this - GIVE IT THE FIRST 150 PAGES BEFORE DNFing. Honestly. I really struggled in the beginning, it's a lot of information to take in and I was super confused. But push through and I promise it gets better!
3568890578	This is my top read of the year. It's brilliant, and I'm already itching to reread it. This book is immersive, twisting, moving, scary, and endlessly inventive. She's a genius.Update: 2023 reread to prepare for the sequel!
3763371451	I really enjoyed this book! This was a dark and intriguing fantasy about power, revenge, sacrifice and resilience. Ninth House follows Alex, a freshman at Yale with a dark past, who is in charge of looking after Yale's secret societies. Alex discovers that the societies are using forbidden magic and she solves a murder that is at the heart of the secret societies dark activities. It took me a while to get into the book, but once I did I was completely immersed in this dark and intriguing world. The characters were very interesting and they each went through their challenges and had to overcome situations in their past. I really liked Alex, she is stubborn, strong, resilient, and smart. Alex's character development was excellent, I enjoyed watching her grow and be more confident in her powers and herself. I liked Darlington, he is smart, resilient, outgoing and stubborn. I also really liked Dawes, she is helpful, very smart and kind. The world building was great, the magic was so interesting. I enjoyed learning about the history of the societies, but was a bit overwhelming at first. I really liked the mystery aspect of the book, it was fun trying to solve the mystery with Alex. There were several plot twists that I didn't expect. The author's writing was descriptive and easy to follow. I liked that the author separated the chapters into the past and present, it was an interesting way to explain the characters back stories as well as the background of the secret societies. The ending was so shocking and exciting! I can't wait to read the next book!
1793976377	❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ re-re-read: what can i say, whatever this book has going on, i here for it.re-read: it hasn’t even been a year and I have already re-read this. This book slaps. Ninth House can be best described as: “talented, brilliant, incredible, amazing, show stopping, spectacular, never the same, totally unique, completely not ever been done before...”Leigh Bardugo sure showed me. I went in to this expecting the worst (most of my GR friends panned this book, and their less-than-impressed reviews are hilarious) and soon found myself amazed by how much I was vibing with it.Ninth House's campus setting brought to mind urban fantasy series such as Richelle Mead's Bloodlines and Rachel Caine's The Morganville Vampires but with the kind of magical elements and aesthetics from The Raven Cycle, or even Holly Black 's Modern Faerie Tales, and the dark tone of Vita Nostra. In brief, Ninth House was 100% up my lane.“There were always excuses for why girls died.”It took me a few chapters to familiarise myself with the story and its protagonist as when we are first introduced to Yale student Galaxy “Alex” Stern its early spring and shit has already hit the fan (ie she has clearly been through a lot). Thankfully the narrative takes us back to the autumn and winter terms, and we get to read of the events that lead to that prologue.Alex's ability to see ghosts (called 'grays') has caught the attention of Lethe (aka the Ninth House) a secret society that keeps in check the occult activities of the Yale's eight secret societies (if you are wondering, yes, they do exist in real-world Yale...). She's offered a place at Yale, for a price: Alex is to be Lethe's 'Dante', who under the guidance of 'Virgil', ensures that the eight houses are obeying Yale's rules. Each house practices a different kind of 'magic', but, it becomes quite apparent that magic, of whatever form or type, in this novel is not an easy or strictly ethical endeavour.Alex, is just trying to survive. She run away from home as a teenager, started using downers to suppress her ability, lived with a man who abused her, and was the sole survivor of a multiple homicide. The girl is dealing with a lot of trauma and she's kind of mess. Her mentor, Darlington, comes from a drastically different background. He's white, wealthy, educated. Yet, in a manner very reminiscent to Gansey from TRC, he feels mundane and wants more. The two had a great chemistry (not in the romantic sense, at least, not in this first novel) and I appreciated the way in which Bardugo doesn't present any of them as being 'good' or 'heroes' of some sort. If it wasn't hard enough to adapt to Yale and Lethe, the societies may have had something to do with the murder of a 'townie'. While almost every person she encounters tries to wave away her suspicions, Alex knows that the societies had something to do with it.“I'm in danger, she wanted to say. Someone hurt me and I don't think they're finished. Help me. But what good had that ever done?”If you ever craved a dark academia novel with a paranormal twist, this is it. But, as pointed out in many other reviews, this novel is Dark with a capital D. There are explicit scenes depicting sexual assault, rape, abuse, death, and other unpleasant, if not downright gory, things. It never struck me as gratuitous, anymore than I would call a novel by Stephen King gratuitous. The mystery kept me on the edge of my seat, the different timelines piqued my interest, the setting—of New Haven and Yale—was vividly rendered, the tone was gritty and real, the atmosphere was 'edgy' (in the best possible way), and the paranormal elements were really innovative. I loved the descriptions of Alex's environment, the attention paid to the architecture, the tension between her and the other characters, the momentum of her investigation. Yale is a haunted place, in more than one way. Bardugo combines fantasy elements with a sharp commentary on privilege, corruption, accountability. The story's is an indictment against abuse of power and against violence (towards women, minorities, those deemed 'expandable'). Trauma is not pretty, and Bardugo does not romanticise it in Alex. Speaking of Alex, she was a memorable character. I loved her for her strength and her vulnerability. Her cutting humour provided a few moments of respite from the novel's otherwise dark tone.Prior reading this novel I wouldn't have called myself a 'fan' of Bardugo. I liked her YA stuff but I was never 'blown' away by it. Her foray into adult fiction has changed that.
2383697160	2020: 4/52024: 5/5
2874388026	I read this book because it’s out of my comfort zone, and I’m surprised I enjoyed it as much as I did. I mean, I did think this book was a little too long and dragged quite a bit in some parts, but for the most part I enjoyed the characters, the dark campus setting, and I kept reading because of the interesting mystery. This book just had the best spooky kind of vibe, I loved the paranormal aspects of this story. It wasn’t my favorite thing ever but I’m glad I gave it a try! Reading vlog where I read it: https://youtu.be/mT9LAbwvZOU
3756784758	Review published on blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend...Atmospheric, Dark, Eerie, Fantastical and Mystical. When Alex Stern arrives at Yale University in New Haven, CT, her past is just one of the many things she simply cannot escape. The Grays are the other. Alex is quite special you see and that is why she is recruited. Alex has a very unique ability to see the “Grays” also known as ghosts, who surround everyone without our knowing it. For this she is desperately needed by the House of Lethe and Darlington. Darlington becomes her mentor, teaching her about Yale’s Secret Societies, each of their unique abilities and how to harness them. As if that wasn’t enough for Alex to handle, Darlington suddenly disappears. Thereafter, of course it goes from bad to worse. A woman is killed on campus and while she doesn’t appear to be affiliated with the societies, looks may just be deceiving. Without Darlington, Alex takes it upon herself to investigate. This causes a disruption with the Dean, the Societies and of course, with the Grays. Fantastical, spooky and vibrant, “Ninth House” spoke to me. The storyline is enveloping, intriguing and preternatural. What made this book even more compelling is that the Secret Societies at Yale do in fact exist, which admittedly led me to do a little research (including how many there truly are, how long they have been around, membership rituals and which famous people have been “members”). This character-driven fiction/fantasy drew me in because of the wild storyline and of course the characters of Alex, Darlington and Dawes (the House of Lethe Research Assistant), whose characters were expertly crafted and were wholly compelling in different ways. Something else I truly appreciated about this novel is that it took place at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, (where the author, Leigh Bardugo obtained an undergraduate degree). Having grown up in Woodbridge, Connecticut, (fifteen minutes from New Haven) and having gone to school and having worked in New Haven for a number of years, I know a lot about the City and all of the old haunts (no pun intended), cross streets and pubs, etc., referenced in the book and incredibly, the author got all of them exactly right. Oftentimes authors make up towns in Connecticut when writing books that take place there, for fear of getting something wrong, so reading this book and reminiscing about The New Haven Green and Yorkside Pizza was a pure delight. “Ninth House” of course, ended with a bit of a cliffhanger, leaving me wanting and waiting desperately for more. I will, of course, be reaching for the sequel as soon as it’s out. Thank you to my local library for loaning me a copy of the audiobook, which was narrated by Lauren Fortgang and Michael David Axtell both of whom were brilliant.Published on Goodreads on 1.17.21.
2494801102	Let's start with a few things that are relevant about me in the context of this review: 1) I've never read a Leigh Bardugo book before. I still plan to read her YA series (on my print shelf); 2) I like dark fantasy or grimdark as it's commonly called. I also enjoy explicit authors like Laurell K. Hamilton and (more recently) Marlon James;3) I'm a recovered drug addict who hasn't used in 16 years. So here's the thing, I went into this book wanting adult urban fantasy. Reading the blurb it sounds like the perfect 'Mel' book. Rituals, murder, ghosts, and a whole lot of darkness. What I got instead was disjointed characters, tolerable plot, and weak attempts at darkness. All that said the last 25% is much better than the first 75%. Unfortunately the last paragraph is so corny and lame (setting up book 2) that I nearly gave myself a stroke rolling my eyes into the back of head. Let's break it down into pieces: PlotOne of the decent things about Bardugo's first adult novel is that the plot is not bad. It's not perfect, and could use some work in places; but overall I'd say it was strong enough to carry the book forward. The biggest issue I had was that our list of murder suspects was weak at best; and with limited character development it was tough to think it could be any one of them given how little we knew about them. Which brings me to... CharactersThis is the crux of what is wrong with Ninth House in my opinion. Bardugo has given us a leading gal that we are supposed to feel sympathy for. Instead I just felt annoyed. She's a whining wuss at first; and later she feels fake and unrealistic. I mean, Bardugo wants us to believe that a girl who has seen ghosts her whole life, is a major drug user and recently ran with very rough crowds is afraid of... well frankly... anything? I like that she has a healthy fear of the ghosts; but her fear of the people and power surrounding her just doesn't fit. She shouldn't care; there is no threat of jail over her head so what exactly does Lethe have on her to make her co-operate? I never did figure that out. And what was Bardugo thinking making our gal's mentor missing from page one?! Then there is our sidekick man who is an interesting, albeit missing (literally) character. As we only see him in flashbacks he doesn't feel like he's an integral part of the story at first. As his importance is amped up in the end I'd have liked more time to understand him as a person. Instead we spend a lot of time with a clean-cut cop who, ironically, is probably my favourite chracter. Our cop is not a magic user of any kind. Instead he's just your average guy that got offered a lot of money to work for a secret society. Not only is he the most realistic character but he's also the only one whose actions always feel perfect for his personality. Wrapping all that up with some weak women, except maybe one lady near the end, we get a bunch of typical, preppy Yale girls and scuzzy Yale boys. No thanks to any of them. DarknessLet's get to one of my biggest pet peeves about Ninth House. Bardugo gives us a lead gal whose life is worth nothing; and then she suddenly gets an opportunity to attend Yale and be a part of a network of secret societies. Neat, I guess. But wheres the authenticity of her recent drug use? There's no cravings of any kind, no mention of withdrawl time, and no actual addiction symptoms (like shaking hands, excessive sweating, twitching, etc). The one thing Bardugo did get right is giving our lead gal an obvious motive for her drug use and descent into personal hell as a teenager. Sticking with possible trigger events; there's a rape scene that is well written. But, like the drug use, there is a lack of follow-through with the types of emotional scars an event like that leaves on someone. Where's the specific fear and follow-up? We feel it in the flashbacks at times but I never felt like our gal was as afraid as she should be. Or maybe she just relies on magical wards too much... The core issue for me is that the thoughts of the characters don't match up with the trauma they've experienced.Snakes, Secret Socities & SorceryYep we've got lots of secret socities (nine surprisingly, lol) on campus at Yale and we have exactly ZERO actual snakes. I cannot even begin to tell you how frustrating this was for me (put a snake on a cover and then don't even feature one live snake!). What's perhaps worse is our lead gal has snake tattoos that are referenced but never explained. I wanna know why she chose snakes! I feel like this is a piece of her emotional self that is key (see character issues above). Perhaps Bardugo has no tattoos; but for myself (and most I know) tattoos have symbolism, meaning and value. Understanding the tattoos of our gal might have helped with the weak emotional connection I felt to her. It's a clear lost opportunity to give our leading gal some emotional substance that she carries with her everyday. As for the magic there were some really well put together rituals and overall ambience of each attempt to use said magic. I was enjoying the use of Latin (and other) language; right up until Bardugo translates some Latin to "fuck". Am I actually expected to believe there is a direct translation to fuck in Latin? Come on. Have some respect for your readers Bardugo and give us a proper translation. We can infer from there the meaning or impact of the words. This moment is one of many that stood out to me as ridiculous for an adult book (maybe you'd do it in a YA one...). Truth Peppered ThroughoutThe absolute best thing in Ninth House is Bardugo's use of real events. From a skeleton found following Hurricane Sandy to the layout of Yale campus to the stories of hauntings or other happenings on said campus. Her incorporation of true historical tidbits shows a commitment to story telling that I admire. If only the rest of the story, especially our lead gal's drug use, was as genuine as the tiny side moments we are given. The Morale?This line, from the book, perhaps sums up best what I think Bardugo is trying to say in Ninth House: "magic wasn't something gilded and benign, just another commodity that only some people could afford."Let's face it, huamns will market and monopolize everything and anything in the end. We've done it with animals, nature, commodities and even our fellow human beings. Of course we are going to do it with something as powerful as ritual magic. In this same vein Bardugo sets up a good showing of the dispartity between the poor and the rich, the educated and the non, and the Yale elite to the rest of the world. She uses this to help the reader understand the classes of ghosts out lead gal encounters. It's clear that Bardugo wants to make a statement about privilege and I believe that is something she succeeded with in Ninth House.OverallThis is a 3-star book at best for me. I didn't hate it; but I didn't really like it. I might have DNF'd it if not for it being so hyped and my desire to be able to speak to the entire book. It feels a little too 'YA' if you will. While the dark events are there, the characters emotions and reactions don't feel genuine to go along with those plot points. Perhaps Bardugo is a great YA writer (I'll get to her other books, promise) but her skill as an adult urban fantasy writer is mediocre at best. I wanted more from the characters, from the magic, from the circumstances and above all from the promised darkness of a world filled with ghosts, demons and ritual sacrifice. In the end I feel like this line (ironically) from Ninth House sums up my experience:"you were all excited, and by page two you realize it's a lot of words and not much drama."The final question left to be asked: will I read book two? I don't think I will bother. Particarly given the ridiculous premise of what the next book will focus on. I actually laughed out loud at how chessy and silly the final lines are. I mean, if Bardugo can't portray a tiny piece of what hell on Earth is like even for a recent drug user, I don't expect her to do any better in any other dark setting that she brings forward in the series. ———————————————Pre-read commentAm I being tricked into reading this because there might be snakes and then there aren’t? This happens a lot. Us snake lovers want good fiction too where our hissing babies are on top and not always evil. Whom I kidding everyone, including me, will read this no matter the content. 😂
1793984785	*empties pockets and hands over my beating heart* It's fine. I'm fine. Ignore me. I'm not fine. I'm having a heart attack but I'm fine. I'm just school girlin' over here. I CANNOT BE MORE EXCITED ABOUT THIS.QUEEN LEIGH BARDUGO, WRITES AGAIN.
7360939901	So much was going on in this one.
3608910714	1st read Oct. 2020 | 4 stars2nd read Jan. 2023 | 5 starsA reread is exactly what I needed to realize just how much I’d missed in my initial listen to the audiobook. Physically rereading & being able to annotate as I please had a world of a difference. In my first go I’d felt such a detachment from the characters and couldn’t bring myself to care too much at all the twists and the magical elements, knowing they were great but feeling nothing for it. This time? I was on the edge of my seat. The magic system is fascinating and I remembered little enough about the mysteries that I was able to truly enjoy them and feel the Easter eggs left behind. The characters came to life and I truly realize how amazing the friendships and relationships were portrayed. Alex’s past was terribly hard to read about & there’s plenty of dark topics besides hers that I’d warn people about if it’s their first read- but damn was it good. I can’t wait to jump into Hell Bent now.
4025698037	”I want to survive this world that keeps trying to destroy me”.Tenía serias sospechas de que este libro no iba a ser mi cup of tea y ha quedado confirmadísimo. Ninth House nos cuenta la historia de Alex, una chica que ha tenido una vida difícil involucrada con drogas, personajes abusivos y, más recientemente, homicidios. De hecho, ella es la única sobreviviente de un homicidio múltiple y, cuando se despierta en el hospital pensando que su vida se ha acabado, unas personas de Yale le ofrecen una oferta bastante peculiar. Gracias a sus habilidades para ver fantasmas, ahora será parte de Lethe, una de las sociedades secretas de esa universidad que se dedica a monitorear todos los rituales que hacen las otras ocho sociedades. Alex, quien ve en eso una salida fácil a su vida previa, acepta, pero pronto se dará cuenta de que darle tantísimo poder a adultos jóvenes y adolescentes con ansias de poder nunca va a salir bien. ¿Qué puedo decir? La verdad es que en ningún punto del libro sentí que estuviera completamente enganchada a la historia, los misterios y los personajes. Sentía que Alex era uno de esos personajes que están perpetuamente enojados por la vida y, aunque ella tiene razones de mucho peso, no podía empatizar con su actitud. Por otra parte, uno de los personajes que sí me gustaba muchísimo, Darlington, aparece únicamente en algunos flashbacks y, de hecho, está desaparecido en la trama principal del libro. Me gustaría decir que adoré la atmósfera medio gótica del libro, pero sinceramente no lo hice. Sí, hay momentos espeluznantes y muy gráficos, pero creo que la historia principal, la trama, se perdía entre párrafos eternos de descripciones que hacían que el ritmo (ya de por sí bastante pausado) del libro decayera. En el fondo, creo que no me enganché mucho a esta historia porque, a pesar de su ambientación de magia rituales, fantasmas y demonios, es un thriller… y todos sabemos cómo me siento con respecto a este género. En fin, creo que el final de este libro es interesante y da a entender que en el segundo veremos más de Darlington, así que no me planteo abandonar esta saga por ahora.
3000923935	I prayed this would be good. I was a big fan of her fantasy heist but I was not so much of a fan of the YA love interest stuff, so when I learned she was writing an adult modern UF fantasy with major mystery elements, I half-cringed, half-fell-over-myself in anticipation. Oh my. When I finally read the first couple-dozen pages, I relaxed. The next dozen thrilled me. I couldn't have been happier!What's so special? The RESEARCH! This is more than just worldbuilding. This is our real-world secret society stuff. Skull and Bones, Scroll and Key. All those Powerful people in our society that go through these special doors that all presidents seem to be a member of? The powerful of all stripes?Bardugo connects it all to magic, real magic, and turns it all into a full UF worldbuilding extravaganza sitting alongside Yale and the rest of the world, but the action here is all at Yale. And if that wasn't enough, the titular character, Alex Stern, sees ghosts. Lots of ghosts. It gives her an edge over most of the magic students because she doesn't need special drugs to see them. She wants justice. She wants to find out who is murdering all those girls.She can't really afford Yale and the ones who employ her might just consider her staff among all the elites who really belong, but she's getting her education and finding out the truth. It has to be enough.Sound like a good murder mystery? It is. :) Very good. The only thing that could make it better is fantastically detailed characters. And guess what? They are. :) I really fell into the tale and loved getting to know so many. Deeply. When some other bad stuff happened, I admit I freaked out. That's what being invested in a great tale is all about. :)I really can't wait for more. This series is going on my read-immediately list from now on.
3062110797	I was pleasantly surprised by Ninth House over and over and over again. Leigh Bardugo is a master storyteller, and she’s only getting better. Alex Stern can see ghosts. After being hospitalized for an overdose, she is approached by Dean Sandow, who invites her to come to Yale as a freshman and join one of Yale’s secret societies—Lethe. But Lethe isn’t like the other eight magical societies; Lethe’s job is to regulate the other societies and make sure they don’t get out of hand. Now it’s Alex’s duty to learn the ropes and keep everyone involved in the societies’ rituals safe, all while struggling to pass her Ivy League classes after having dropped out of high school. Alex’s mentor, Darlington, goes missing, and someone is murdered near Yale’s campus. Now Alex must figure out if and how the societies are involved in the murder, all while trying to find Darlington and bring him back home. I picked this book because of the university setting, but it’s been on my radar a long time. I only recently read Vicious, which also gave me that university feel, and now I’m thinking I should read more books set on campus. But let’s get back to Ninth House. I mean, who doesn’t love Leigh Bardugo? I remember reading Shadow and Bone when I was in high school. Since then, the books I’ve read by Bardugo have only gotten better. But I was nervous. I saw so many bad reviews for Bardugo’s adult debut. One of the main complaints I saw about this book was that it was too dark. To be fair, I don’t think this book has ever pretended to be anything but dark. Actually, the thing that pushed me to purchase it in the end was a negative Amazon review claiming that the book was much too dark and proved their point by stating that all the author reviews on the dust jacket were by horror authors. The thing is, I love horror. I was sold. After having actually read the book, I can say with complete confidence that Ninth House is not horror. The societies are rather occultish. On top of that, the book deals with a lot of heavy topics like drug use, rape, sexual assault, and self harm. As always, I think you should look up trigger warnings if you’re concerned, but all of it was very well written, in my opinion. Also, this book is firmly in the fantasy category. Another complaint I’ve seen mentioned is that the book starts too slow and doesn’t really get started until around 150 pages in. It was admittedly confusing in the beginning, but I kept waiting for it to slow down and it never did. I thought the entire book was extremely compelling. By confusing, I mean that Bardugo pulled the trick where she keeps pretty obviously omitted past information away from the reader. This is the kind of thing I usually find annoying but it didn’t really bother me much. I was reading quickly enough that it didn’t have a chance to. Last, but not least, let me address the fact that this book is pretentious. Yeah, it’s pretentious. It’s about secret societies at any Ivy League university. What do you expect? Besides, Alex herself isn’t pretentious. She spends more time being appalled by the greed and indifference of the society members. Long story short, Ninth House is a really wonderful fantasy gem. It has just a little bit of everything. I can’t wait to see what the next book in the Alex Stern series will bring.
3006017449	I enjoyed the audio! It helped with the length/slowness. I’d give it 4 solid stars ⭐️ on audio. (Reread Feb 2023) 3.5 Stars rounded up - Ninth House is a dark fantasy that at its core is about abuse, trauma, survival and ultimately finding a way to live. There was a lot to love about this book - the main character, Galaxy "Alex" Stern was great, the eerie gothic secret society Yale setting, ghosts, magic, murder & mystery with some fun twists. I was fully expecting to be wowed. Unfortunately, I wasn't. It was soooooooo long. Too long. I get that it was building up the back story but I felt like it dragged on in the middle and then suddenly we were at the resolution. Only not everything gets resolved. Yup, we got set up for book 2. Sigh! Of course after reading over 450 pages I feel invested so.... I'll be reading Book 2.
4293880388	almost kms reading this it was too good. and all the darlingstern enthusiasts, i get it now
5576338155	everyone needs an exorcism
2097628291	I’m on BookTube now! =)”The Ancient Eight have yielded some of the most powerful men and women in the world. People who literally steer governments, the wealth of nations, who forge the shape of culture.”Okay, I’m going to be honest here (am I ever not?! *lol*) and I’ll admit that this was my first foray into the genre of “dark academia”. I’ve never read in this genre before and if I ever did I obviously can’t remember it. So this said the entire concept of “Ninth House” was super intriguing for me. I know a lot of people who already read in this particular genre and most of them apparently were bored and found too many typical tropes in this book. As someone who’s new to this sort of thing I can’t complain though. I mean for me as a newbie it totally worked. As for the book and the plot itself: It’s a slow one and the story takes quite some time to develop and to gain traction. At the beginning there is a lot of info dump and for me it felt like the start of Sarah J. Maas’s “House of Earth and Blood”. There are many details and an entire hierarchy and system you have to understand in order to be able to continue with the storyline. All the different student unions (secret societies), their special brand of magic and how they are imbedded into the well-oiled machinery named Yale were just a part of it though. We also get a thorough look into Lethe House and how it works as a controlling body for the Ancient Eight. Not gonna lie, it was A LOT to take in at first, but once you get the hang of it the magical world starts to spread out in front of you. ;-)Another thing I’ve to mention are the characters in this book. Alex Stern is probably one of the most unlikely heroines I ever came across. Well, in fact she’s actually an anti-hero, but this only makes her even more likable. Darlington is such a darling (pun totally intended) and Dawes is some sort of quiet force that works in the background. Those three make up Lethe House and it was super interesting to find out about how it works. I think it’s safe to say that the book is very character driven and lives from their complexity, which is always a plus in my book. Still, there were a couple of very disgusting and graphic scenes so if that’s not your cup of tea I wouldn’t recommend reading “Ninth House”. I’ll definitely make sure to write them all in the trigger warnings below! Anyway, before I write another essay I’ll just leave it at that and jump right into my characters section aka the spoilery parts! XDtrigger warnings (and there’s a whole list!): (view spoiler)[ violence, gore, rape, blood, drug use, drug dealing & addiction, overdosing, death, abuse (mental and physical), rape of a child, sexual assault after making people compliant with a magical drug, drowning, suicide, blackmail, self-harm, forced consumption of human waste (hide spoiler)]The characters: Welcome to Yale Campus and all the secret societies it harbours. If you don’t want to dive into this dark chapter of history and don’t want to get spoiled you better head my warning and don’t continue to read. For all the brave of you who don’t mind spoilers: Be my guest and go ahead! ;-P Galaxy “Alex” Stern:”The idea that there could be hot food just waiting for her three times a day was still shocking. But it made no difference what she ate or how much of it; it was as if her body, starved for so long, was ravenous now.” Where to start with Alex?! Well, she’s definitely not your typical heroine. Alex’s past is pretty messy and there happened a lot of heavy stuff that’s still haunting her. She could always see ghosts (they are called Greys in here) and even got attacked by them. Not just physically but she was also sexually abused by one as a child. And yes I think it was actual abuse and not just an attempted one. The way the scene was described she actually got assaulted. Alex was just a child when it happened and she could not explain the things she saw because no one else could see the ghosts as well. So in the end she lost her way and started to hang out with people that used drugs. Which led her into addiction until her friend died and she was offered a job at Lethe House in Yale. What I really liked about Alex’s character was that she wasn’t one of those super strong characters. She was afraid and she tried to stay out of trouble, but as the book continued she realized that she needed to stand up for herself in order to live her life the way she wanted to. Everyone already believed her to be that tough girl so she finally decided to actually become one. XD So at the end of the book it was revealed that Alex is a wheel and I’m very curious to find out what this actually means. Guess I’ll have to wait for book two though. >_< ”Take courage. No one is immortal. Do you know what it would have meant to me to know those words when I was a kid? It would have taken so little to change everything. But no one bothered. Not until I could be useful to you.””What do you want? Belbalm had asked her. Safety, comfort, to feel unafraid. I want to live to grow old, Alex thought as she pulled the curtains closed. I want to sit on my porch and drink foul-smelling tea and yell at passersby. I want to survive this world that keeps trying to destroy me.””Mors irrumat omnia,” Alex whispered. Death fucks us all.””What could she say? Help me. Protect me. Except no one could. No one could see the things hurting her. They might not even be real. That was the worst of it. What if she’d imagined it all? She might just be crazy, and then what? She wanted to start screaming and never stop.” Daniel “Darlington” Arlington:”I c-c-class p-p-profanity with declarations of love. Best used sparingly and only when wholeheartedly m-m-meant.”Mhmm... I’m having a difficult time to say something about Darlington because we only got to see flashbacks of his character. He disappeared when he went to that house with Alex and we have no idea where he actually went or if he’s even still alive. Alex believes him to be in hell so I’m not sure if I should hope that he’s still alive. I’m pretty certain he’d suffer in hell so yeah... Anyway! Darlington seemed to be a really nice guy, yes probably too posh and refined but deep down it looks like he had a good heart. He was like the golden boy of Lethe House and everyone was drawn to him. Throughout the entire book we get to see more and more of his past and what caused him to end up at Yale and Lethe House and why he’s bound so tightly to Black Elm. Still, we only get little bits of his life and the rest is a mystery. So I’m very curious about Darlington now! Especially because Alex thinks he became a demon and the only way to become one is if you killed someone. Maybe he killed his grandfather? I dunno. I really want to find out though because nice and friendly Darlington didn’t seem like he could hurt a fly. ”He saw the city differently because he knew it, and his knowledge was not casual. It was adoration. But no amount of love could make him see Grays. Not without Orozcerio, another hit from the Golden Bowl. He shuddered. Every time was a risk, another chance that his body would say enough, that one of his kidneys would simply fail.” ”Beyond that, he had nothing. But he couldn’t let go of Black Elm, he wouldn’t, not so someone could put a wrecking ball through its walls. Not for anything. This was his place. Who would he be untethered from this house?””This was why he had done it, not because of guilt of pride but because this was the moment he’d been waiting for: the chance to show someone else wonder, to watch them realize that they had not been lied to, that the world they’d been promised as children was not something that had to be abandoned, that there really was something lurking in the wood, beneath the stairs, between the stars, that everything was full of mystery.” ”I don’t know,” Darlington had said meditatively. “Suffocating beneath a pile of books seems an appropriate way to go for a research assistant.”Dawes:”Alex has indicated her own concerns regarding her assault, and instead of hearing her out, you’ve chosen to question her credibility. You may not have meant to imply anything, but the intent and the effect were to silence her, so it’s hard not to think this stinks of victim blaming. It’s the semantic equivalent of saying her skirt was too short.” For a long while Dawes was just a side-character that only appeared every once in a while but as the plot picked up pace she became a bigger part of the book as well. I really liked her and I was very thankful Alex had her on her side! Who would have thought shy Dawes would give Dean Sandow a sermon about victim blaming! XD I really loved that and Dawes totally grew on me! She’s a fierce bookworm and we definitely need more of those in our books! *lol*Turner:Turner shook his head. “And let me guess, it isn’t a regulated substance because no one’s ever heard of it to regulate it.” He had the same nauseated expression he’d worn when he saw Alex healed by the crucible. “All you children playing with fire, looking surprised when the house burns down.” Turner is also a character that grew on me and I really like him. He’s just doing his job and trying to make sense of all the magic and craziness that is Yale campus. *lol* Not easy if you’re a man that believes in facts and the things he can see. I guess Alex will teach him a lot of things in the next book and I’m sure he’s going to regret the day he started to work for Lethe, that is, of course, if he isn’t already doing it. XDThe relationships & ships:Alex & Darlington:”Alex would have liked to be immune to it – the pretty face, his lean frame, the easy way he occupied space as if he owned it. He had a way of distractedly brushing the brown hair back from his forehead that made you want to do it for him. “ And here is the one million dollar question: Was there something between Alex and Darlington or not?! I have no idea! I think they were attracted to each other but nothing ever happened? At least I got the feeling that there was some chemistry but that they didn’t get a chance to give into it. I’m kind of scared to find out how Darlington is going to be once he returns from hell. I’m pretty certain he won’t come back the same way he went into it and I’m sure it will bring an entirely different dynamic to his relationship with Alex. Also there is still North the ghost. He bonded with Alex in the most particular way and I don’t know how this is going to affect Alex in the future. Since the thing with Daisy happened he obviously steered clear of her, but they are bound now and I think he’ll be a part of the next book too. Mhmm.”Either way, Alex didn’t like that it would be so easy for Lethe to close Darlington’s chapter. He had been a lot of things, most of them annoying, but he had loved his job and Lethe House. It was cruel that Lethe couldn’t love him back.”Alex & Mira (her mum):”They would ingest a little bit of arsenic every day. It made their skin clear and their eyes bright and they felt wonderful. And all the while they were just drinking poison.” When Mira turned her eyes back to Alex, they were sharper and steadier than Alex ever remembered them being, free of the usual determined cheer. “That’s what being with your father was like.” Alex’s mum really seemed to care about her and I couldn’t help but wonder how it even happened that they got so estranged. I suppose Alex didn’t want to explain that she could see ghosts and what they did to her and therefore sought her relief in drugs instead. I had the feeling like her mum tried to reach out to her but Alex just couldn’t accept the help? Maybe I’m wrong. I think as a parent her mum should have been more persistent though. If my kid would go through some stuff and I knew she was falling apart I’d do everything possible in order to reach her. But then again maybe Mira did exactly that and it just wasn’t shown in the book. >_< What caused my ears to prick up though was that little bit when Mira spoke about Alex’s father. To compare him with poison already says enough and I’m pretty certain that Alex inherited her ability to see ghosts from him. Maybe he was some sort of demon? I dunno. All the little bits we got about him indicate that he wasn’t entirely human. I’m definitely ready to solve that mystery in the next book. xDConclusion:“Ninth House” was my first time reading “dark academia” and even though some of the scenes in this book were pretty repulsive and disgusting I still found myself wanting to know what would happen next. If you don’t have a tough stomach I certainly wouldn’t recommend you to read this, but if you like intriguing characters that are morally grey and enjoy a little bit of mystery this book could be for you. I definitely don’t agree with all of Alex’s actions but she was an interesting MC and I’m curious enough to go for the second book whenever it hits the shelves. =) ___________________________Okay, okay. Cool, cool! Nice ending... never saw THIS coming but okay. I’m fine. I mean I’m kinda mind blown but still fine. Alright. Alright. Excuse me but: WHEN IS THE SECOND BOOK COMING OUT???!!!RTC soon! Maybe. Hopefully? Just gonna ignore the Greys until it’s here. ____________________________I said I would read “Ninth House” in September and today is the day! It’s good I always go for a monthly TBR and already posted ”My September TBR” on my BookTube channel otherwise I’d probably never read the books from my TBR. *lol*This said: I’ve been dying to read “Ninth House” ever since I learned about its existence and so far I only heard good things about it. I’ve never read dark academia before so I don’t know if it will be my cup of tea, but I’m willing to find out. ;-)
1793972798	"I want to survive this world that keeps trying to destroy me." WOO LORD, where do I start with this one? Ninth House was my most anticipated read of 2019 and while this did and did not live up to my expectations I still really enjoyed it. My biggest piece of advice I can give you before starting this is to look up its trigger warnings. I'll have a list at the end of this review but please know there are things I may have possibly missed while reading this since I don't find many things triggering. There are also tons of reviews out there already with much more in depth trigger warnings if this is something you're concerned about. This is a dark book, it's about abuse, trauma, and the lengths we will go to to survive, whether they be good or bad. It's not a pretty story and the next book is probably going to get a whole lot darker. “I let you die. To save myself, I let you die.That is the danger in keeping company with survivors.” The story of Ninth House takes readers from the past and present through the POV's of Galaxy (Alex) Stern and Daniel Arlington (better known as Darlington). I absolutely loved the back and forth and felt it made a lot more of the plot twists in this so much more impactful. Alex, wakes up in a hospital, the sole survivor of a brutal unsolved homicide and is offered a chance at a new life. Upon taking the opportunity she packs up her life and heads to the other side of the country were she'll be monitoring Yale's secret societies for the next four years. Her "mentor" Darlington will be teaching her everything she needs to know about the societies, their occult activities, and how to at least try to keep them at bay from wreaking havoc on the world. "All you children playing with fire, looking surprised when the house burns down." When a young girl is murdered, Alex is convinced it was one of the secret societies doing and cannot look the other way. With the magic she's learned, a handy sidekick named Dawes, pesky ghosts, and a detective who wants nothing to do with Alex meddling in his case, Alex's revelations indicate something far more sinister is happening at the college. Leigh Bardugo's writing and world-building throughout this is INCREDIBLE. She creates the perfect setting for this dark, gritty story. She also brings up a lot of other important discussions like white privilege (especially with males), and how dangerous it can become when it's unchallenged. There are definitely some tough parts to read about but I love the way Leigh addressed and handled it. "There were always excuses for why girls died." So, why can't I give this one five stars? It's a simple but also kind of a contradicting answer. The reality of it is that this book doesn't need to come in at just about 500 pages, and I think this is something that other readers may struggle with too. You have to give this at least 100 pages before it starts to take off and you're able to figure out who the hell is who and what the societies are all about, tack on a few more chapters to find out the direction the story is actually going in. Which means if you're not invested in the characters, this is probably going to fall pretty flat for you. Luckily, I loved the characters so they were really what kept me going when the pacing dragged. But I also feel like if this book were to be cut shorter we wouldn't get the top notch world-building and atmosphere that Leigh created, which had me in this weird middle ground for a decent chunk of the book.Favorite Quotes "That was what magic did. It revealed the heart of who you'd been before life took away your belief in the possible." "You couldn't keep sidling up to death and dipping your toe in. Eventually it grabbed your ankle and tried to pull you under." "She'd never broken a bone, had surgery. But the worst damage didn't leave a mark." TW: rape (graphic), PTSD, murder, blood & gore, violence, drug use, overdose, sexual assault on video, racism, forced eating of fecesAll in all, even though I struggled with the pacing I still enjoyed my time with this book. I LOVED the ending and cannot wait for the second book. If you think you're in a good headspace for this book I would definitely recommend it, however, I would advise against reading it just for the hype if dark books are not your thing.P.S. - I did not guess the murderer, so props to Leigh for that!Thank you Flatiron Books for sending me a review copy in exchange for a honest review!
3011270078	Originally reviewed in October of 2019, and I stand by what I wrote below. I still loved this book on my second read-through.First off, can I just say that Bardugo hit it out of the park with her first adult novel?I have a weakness for school stories. And if the school happens to be magical in some way, so much the better. But very rarely have I come across a book that involves a school imbued with magic where only a select few students are aware of the supernatural element. I’ve read books were there were secretly vampires or werewolves on campus, not not sanctioned magical societies that had to fly under the collegiate radar. The fact that said magical society were on the campus of a real university, Yale, made things even more interesting. These slight variations made for a fresh take on a favorite trope. “New Haven was a town forever on the brink of things.”Alex (short for Galaxy, and how cool is that?) Stern is in over her head. She was offered a place at Yale if she became a member of Lethe, the less famous magical society that polices the others, the famed Houses of the Veil. Because she has nothing and nowhere and no one else, she jumps at the chance. But Alex isn’t a brainiac, or wealthy, or from a well-to-do family, or even an upstanding citizen. She just sees ghosts. That’s it. That’s the entire reason she’s been given such a profound opportunity to change her life. Even though she’s trying her hardest to balance her classes and campus life with her Lethe responsibilities, she just can’t seem to keep all of her balls in the air. As things start to fall apart, Alex is terrified that this new life, her one shot at something more, is going to be taken away from her. But Alex is a fighter, a survivor, and she’s not going to give up and just walk away. Especially when there are not one but two mysteries to solve. And one of those mysteries involves a dead girl who reminds her so strongly of the friend she lost that Alex can’t let it go, even when trying to solve this particular mystery puts her in terrible danger. There are real stakes to her story, and I was completely enthralled by every page.“You couldn’t keep sidling up to death and dipping your toe in. Eventually it grabbed your ankle and tried to pull you under.”Bardugo did a brilliant job with the mystery elements, never giving things away too quickly. I was surprised by multiple twists, and I really appreciated how these weren’t “aha!” moments as much as they were a peeling away of another layer. I also loved the setting, and that the magic hiding beneath the surface in the version of our world that Bardugo has crafted is so varied and unexplained. Each of the Houses of the Veil specializes in a particular type of magic, and I appreciated that all the magic practiced came at a price, and usually a steep one at that. But the star of the book wasn’t the mystery, or the magic, or the setting. Without a doubt, Alex was what made this story so special.“Take me back. Make me into someone who has never been done harm. Go as far as you can. Make me brand-new. No bruises. No scars.”Joe Hill said that Alex is a heroine with “a bruised heart and bleeding knuckles,” and I can’t think of a more perfect description. Alex is first and foremost a survivor, and that brings with in attributes and failings that make for a very interesting, realistic character. Survivors are fighters by nature, but those who have survived trauma also have a tendency to protect themselves above all others. This means that Alex isn’t always loyal. She’s not selfless or optimistic or principled or trusting. She’s wily and suspicious and underhanded when she needs to be. Above all, she’s broken, and is trying to put herself back together the best she can. Some such characters can feel very alienating to readers but Alex has this cautious vulnerability and fragile hope to her that made me instantly care deeply about her. There’s one scene of her alone towards the end of the book that I found so raw and empowering that it made my heart feel like it would burst; I was just so darn proud of her in that moment.“Peace was like any high. It couldn't last. It was an illusion, something that could be interrupted in a moment and lost forever.” I’m so glad that Bardugo didn’t give into the pressure to put include content warnings with this book. Had they been included, they would’ve spoiled so much of the story. Yes, this is a dark tale, very dark in places, and there is indeed some uncomfortable, disturbing content. But it’s an ADULT BOOK. If you’re afraid of being triggered, read early reviews. Talk to those who have already read the book and ask if there’s anything you should watch out for. Don’t become so fixated on being forewarned about any topic that is uncomfortable that you ruin the book for everyone else. While I don’t agree with content warnings for the most part, I can see where they would be appropriate for certain middle grade and young adult fiction. But we’re grown ups. We should know what we can and can’t handle without requiring authors to spoil their own books to appease us.Okay, end rant.We are the shepherds. The time for that was done. Better to be a rattler. Better to be a jackal.If you couldn’t tell, I really loved this book. While it was a dark tale, it wasn’t hopeless by any means. I love that Bardugo gave us a satisfying ending to this particular story while still leaving Alex’s world wide open for further exploration. I can’t wait to see what Bardugo writes next. And I’ll definitely be preordering the next installment in this series as soon as I can.You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.
2583226489	The first 100 pages or so of this feel like an uphill climb, you know it'll be worth it once you get to the top but my god is it a lot of effort. The latter half of this book however was utterly compelling. This is dark academia with an emphasis on the dark. The plot is innovative with great pay off and the characters work well within the story. Ninth House is definitely very different to Bardugo's previous works, but is 100% worth reading. TLDR: Go in with low expectations and you'll be wowed.
3370413191	Es un libro que empieza lento, pero llegando a cierto punto no pude dejar de leerlo. No puedo esperar a leer el que sigue. Ahorita solo puedo decir que amo mucho a Darlington.
1793834106	I am conflicted. On the one hand this book was very well written. On the other hand I didn’t love it.I liked the characters. But I didn’t care too much about them.It was engaging. But I was never eager to pick the book back up.The plot was interesting and fast paced. But it was a little too fast paced to were the main character never caught a break.It was dark and gritty. But it should definitely have had some sort of trigger warning for the multiple scenes of SA. I really want to know what happens next. But reading the sequel feels like so much effort.I don’t even know what to rate it. I’m going with 3 because it seems neutral enough. Also, Darlington was my favorite. I might read the sequel just for him.
3180417761	2.5 starsWas it me? Was it the book?Was it just my stupidity?Was it the writing style?The back and forth?Was it how boring it was?Or Was it because of how it felt like nothing is happening?Oh I know, maybe it’s just the universe?We would never know! But I didn’t like this book. And it’s breaking my heart to say that. But I’ve been reading it for an entire week and that’s a lot to me because I’m kind of a fast reader. I just couldn’t get into it. I thought I’m just too stupid and it would get better and I would start to understand but no I was so confused and the confusion turned into boredom. I think the idea of the book is really good. And it was only in the end that I kind of started to understand everything, but it was too late! I also loved Darlington. He was the only good thing in this book. I was frustrated by how this book was written. The back and forth was driving me crazy. The nonlinear format was confusing me even more, like where the hell are we know! I also didn’t like how there was so much narration!! I was so freakin tired of it. The book would just go on and on narrating things that I don’t give a damn about for chapters. That when something actually start to happen I wouldn’t even notice or care. This was really disappointing!
2861699355	Reread 2022: I had forgotten 90% of the plot, which actually made me enjoy this even more on reread. Original review: Ninth House, Leigh Bardugo's first foray into adult literature, tells the story of Galaxy 'Alex' Stern as she's given the opportunity of a lifetime to study at Yale University, under the careful guidance of Daniel Arlington, as a guardian of Lethe House. At this Yale, there are eight ancient societies sitting on hot spots of magical energy. Each house specialises in different types of magic - ranging from necromancy to weather working and Lethe House, the ninth house, is in charge of keeping them all in order and out of trouble. And when a dead girl is found in New Haven, Alex knows the houses are involved - despite everyone's insistence that they're not. This was slow to start as Bardugo takes her time setting up the history of New Haven and the various houses. There's also three timelines running simultaneously at the beginning, one involving Alex and her mentor Darlington, one set in the more 'present' with Alex recovering from a vicious bite wound, and one with Alex trying to solve a murder after the mysterious disappearance of Darlington. At times these timelines got confusing as the story tries to establish itself, especially as we also get a couple of flashbacks thrown in for good measure. It felt convoluted and heavy handed at times, and could probably have been condensed down further to help with the pacing, which did suffer in the early stages. That said, the writing is excellent and kept me engaged throughout. The world building is intense, but once it's set up and you understand the magic and the setting, it's pay off is a great atmospheric read with a spooky vibe that's perfect for this time of year. You can really tell Bardugo walked these streets, and researched the area heavily. The various twists also took me by surprise, and I never once guessed the ending to the overall mystery. I also ended up really liking Alex. She's damaged with an incredibly murky and violent past, thrown into this world of privilege. She's downtrodden, introverted and bitter. Brittle. And she knows she's only where she is because she's different. She can see the ghosts, the Greys, who haunt the world of the living and disrupt the rituals of the houses. These ghosts have tormented her throughout her life, and the only escape Alex has known has been the various drugs she's used to forget them. Her clashes with Darlington were great, with Darlington 'the gentleman of Lethe' both despising Alex, but also being the only person to 'see' the truth about her. Their dynamics together were great, complicated and interesting, and I especially enjoyed their chapters together visiting the various houses. I also think because of this, the sequel really has the potential to outshine this one, with suitable awkward and delicious tension filled moments to come. I also really liked Dawes, and her strained relationship with Alex. She comes across at first as the shy, retiring graduate who prefers to hide amongst her books and her dissertation than take up the battles Alex is so ready to serve. But as she develops some kind of friendship with Alex, we see her backbone, her wit and humanity shine. She's a powerful ally for Alex, standing up for her on several occasions against the powerful men of the societies when Alex is ready to give up. Together they're a more formidable team than Alex and Darlington ever were and I hope this is further built upon moving forward.Now, my major issue with this novel, and the more obvious reason for the 4 star rating I'll put under a spoiler. For obvious reasons, but also for trigger warnings. (view spoiler)[ The whole 'ghost rape' flashback involving a twelve year old Alex. From various early reviews I was expecting dark, and I'd heard mentions of trigger warnings for rape etc. but this took me completely by surprise, and not in a good way. The whole scene felt gratuitous and unnecessary. By the point in which it's told, we as the reader, are already aware that Alex has had a difficult and troubled past with the Greys and we don't need this scene at all. It adds nothing to the story line or character development and felt so out of context for the story as it is never examined again in any kind of detail, and no explanations are given for the ghost's behaviour or ability to touch her. In fact, it completely hampered any enjoyment I had for the story moving forward and in order to finish the book I ultimately tried to forget the whole scene. Honestly, the story would have been so much better without it. (hide spoiler)]That one scene aside, I enjoyed the darker and more atmospheric feel to this, and the sequel has a lot of potential to be even better now the world is established and relationships formed. Faster pacing and more rituals too please, I want to see more of the underbelly of New Haven and the murky waters beyond the Veil.
2787293911	“Did you read the ritual?” Dawes asked as she walked the perimeter of the room, studying its details.“Parts of it.” Enough to know it could put her in touch with the Bridegroom.“You have to cross into the borderland between life and death.”“Wait … I’m going to have to die?” She really should start doing the reading.“Yes.”“And come back?”“I mean, that’s the idea.”“And you’re going to have to kill me?” Timid Dawes who, at the first sign of violence, had curled into a corner like a hedgehog in a sweatshirt? “You okay with that? It’s not going to look good for you if I don’t make it back.”Dawes expelled a long breath. “So make it back.” Not to be dramatic or anything but I'd sell my entire book collection to have Queen Bardugo on speed dial
4107308521	Ninth House had a bit of a slow start, but once the setting was established it really grabbed me! I definitely went down a bit of a rabbit hole about Yale secret societies on Wikipedia. 😂 This was dark, twisty, and almost eldritch horror-esque. Emily and I were definitely comparing notes for the first 100 or so pages, because it took a while to explain itself.Alex is such a cool character—morally grey, damaged, and a little sharp around the edges—but I ended up loving her. Following her around as she tried to solve so many concurrent mysteries had me on the edge of my seat. This is not a book you can multitask while reading. The side characters were also written so well! Dawes went from a sweet, shy researcher to Alex’s biggest ally, and I can’t wait to see more of her. Darlington is my favorite, and I only got a few brief POVs from him, so that should tell you a lot. 😌 And I just know he is going to get even more interesting in the next book. 👀 It seems that Bardugo always manages to make me root for a cast of morally questionable idiots. 🫡My only issues were the slow beginning, and the lack of content warnings within the book! I had to look them up separately after being jump-scared by a pretty gratuitous SA scene. Definitely look them up before reading as there is a lot of violence against women in particular! Overall though, I really liked the atmosphere that Leigh Bardugo created with Ninth House. The moody, academic, horror/mystery vibes felt perfect for this time of year. And the ending was phenomenal! I had some theories, but I was shocked by the twist at the end. I’m definitely going to continue the series! I think now that the heavy lifting is out of the way in this book, the next one will be quicker paced!Huge thank you to Emily for going on this journey with me! 🖤 *Buddy reading with my girl Emily! 💕*
