2679827943	This book is like Harry Potter, but if it was written by Kafka.Watch my full review here https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FMfo...
6500797470	would you still love me if i was a word?
4989398110	This is one of the weirdest books I've read but I really enjoyed it!Dark academia, magical school, mini time loops and.... lots of confusion but it was all worth it.
2592187859	At the start of this novel, 16-year-old Sasha Samokhina is on a seaside vacation with her mother, where after a few days she finds herself stalked by a mysterious man with pale skin and dark glasses. She is eventually confronted by this stranger, who entreats Sasha to wake up at 4 am every morning, go to the beach, take off all her clothes, and swim to a buoy and back. She reluctantly agrees to this strange task, and as soon as she's back on shore that first morning, she starts to vomit gold coins.Thus begins the wildly unconventional journey that the Dyachenkos take the reader on in Vita Nostra, which has safely earned its distinction as the most unorthodox book I have ever read. This doesn't follow any kind of narrative formula that will be familiar to many western readers - it's bizarrely lacking in conflict, resolution, plot twists, and structure. But it's also the most singular and enchanting and darkly horrifying book I have ever read.Honestly, the marketing team has my sympathy for this one, because I don't think I've ever read another book that so staunchly defies categorization. There are recognizable elements from traditional coming of age novels, but it isn't a bildungsroman; there are hints and whispers of magic but it isn't really fantasy; there are some classic Magical School tropes but it isn't remotely comparable to Harry Potter; and it's filled to the brim with philosophical references but its maddeningly esoteric approach is strangely alienating even to readers who are interested in its central themes. A large part of this book is just stumbling blindly alongside Sasha and waiting for everything to be made clear, which it never really is. It's proving to be quite the challenge to explain what the appeal exactly is of a book like this, and I fully accept that this isn't going to be for everyone. This isn't really for readers who need to be entertained by plot or readers who need to be invested in complex character dynamics. This is more for the readers drawn equally to a compelling atmosphere and big ideas; readers who are both thrilled and terrified at the idea that their own worldview is more limited than they ever could have imagined. This book mesmerized me from the very first page and proved to be the most unexpected reading experience I've ever had. At times it's frustrating and incomprehensible but never for a single moment does it fail to stimulate. This is one of the most exceptional things I have read in a very long time, and one of those books that will absolutely reward the effort you put into it.Thanks so much to Harper Voyager for the copy provided in exchange for an honest review.
2596151726	I have SUCH conflicting thoughts about this book because it was crazy and interesting and groundbreaking and suspenseful and fucking weird and lacking antagonists and personality and structure and chapter breaks but it's so intriguing and different and beautiful and gross and almost too smart and then maybe not smart at all and enthralling and annoying and I want to clutch it to my chest and throw it at the wall at the same time AHAGAHSGAHSDGASGASDGJASHDGASGH
3598041813	Vita Nostra changed the way I see the world. This book inspires obsession. My awareness of existence after reading it feels shifted, reframed somehow. I feel like I’ve stepped over the bounds of reality and entered some transcendental state. I can’t stop turning it over and over in my mind. This novel is nearly impossible to encapsulate in a synopsis. It is about many things: words, time, delusion, transformation, debts, the power of fear. The disconnect between people who have changed in opposite ways. The unspoken rules that govern us. Seeing your own reflection in other people with whom you’ve left a piece of yourself. It gets more abstract as it goes along, in incredibly inventive ways that seem almost logical and matter-of-fact when you’re reading. It’s like dreaming, where everything makes sense in your sleep and sounds ludicrous when you’re trying to describe it to someone else. Every time I picked up this book, just to briefly read a page or two, it became the only thing I wanted to do. I was totally riveted, fully immersed. Vita Nostra is many genres in one: suspense, fantasy, Gothic fiction, psychological terror. It has some of my favorite horror aspects: a suspicious school, along with its drama and intrigue and complex character relationships, and the discovery of deeper, sinister meaning in seemingly innocuous situations.Sasha is a perfect main character for the story this book is telling. Her development is one of my favorite parts of the novel. Sasha at the end of the book is completely different in many ways than how she was at the beginning, but she’s still the character I had grown to respect and care about despite her increasing detachment, single-mindedness, and isolation from reality. She is resilient, determined, inquisitive, and strong-willed. The side characters also have surprising and realistic depth. They aren’t just there to create cheap conflict or to be killed off.The writing isn’t the type where you can pick out specific, especially eloquent lines. Rather, every sentence works together, leading into the next, each idea illustrated deliberately. It’s satisfying, seamless, and spellbinding. Sasha thought of life as a collection of identical days. To her, existence consisted of days, and each day seemed to run like a circular ribbon—or, better yet, a bike chain, moving evenly over the cogs. Click—another change of speed, days became a little different, but they still flowed, still repeated, and that very monotony concealed the meaning of life… The way this is written makes everything feel constantly ominous, even when nothing outwardly disturbing or uneasy is happening. That’s another aspect that makes it stand out to me. A typical terror element is the inability to communicate with the outside world, but this book subverts it. Telephones are always accessible. But it’s not that Sasha can’t leave… she just starts to realize that she doesn’t want to. I have only felt this same feeling in a book once before: in Krabat and the Sorcerer's Mill by Otfried Preußler, which is another outstanding, transfixing masterpiece.It’s difficult to escape the Harry Potter comparisons that always seem to appear in discussions of Vita Nostra. I have to disagree—I don’t think there are many similarities at all. Although they both have schools, the contents of these two books are totally different. I think it’s unfair to market this book as a darker Harry Potter when they are so contrasting in tone, atmosphere, and plot that Harry Potter never would have come to mind had I not read some comparisons online. However, there is one book that I can connect pretty convincingly to Vita Nostra: Babel by R.F. Kuang. I know R.F. Kuang has read Vita Nostra and likes it because she is quoted on the cover of the sequel. The way the two books are written and the discussions of language they contain stood out to me especially as similar elements. As someone who likes both novels, I thought it was interesting to note how one might have had a hand in inspiring the other.Vita Nostra made me feel like I was spinning through a supercut of flashing images, everything moving silently in my head, feverish and unnerving. This book feels otherworldly in a mesmerizing way. It’s hard to grasp that actual people wrote it. I cannot recommend this highly enough. It took me to another world, then sent me back to my own, and everything feels different now.5 starsTranslated by Julia Meitov Hersey
3204426922	There are concepts that cannot be imagined but can be named. Having received a name, they change, they flow into a different entity, and cease to correspond to the name, and then they can be given another, different name, and this process— the spellbinding process of creation— is indefinite: this is the word that names it, and this is the word that signifies. A concept as an organism, and text as the universe. I don't think there's a word in this entire universe that can be spoken, that can be said, that can be even thought of....to explain the feeling I had, reading this book. This was like a composing song, flitting to one musical note to the next— a percussion of colors and sound that was so encompassing and transcending. It was so, so fulfilling. I feel lived. I lived entire lives, traveled through different dimensions and cosmoses, and come out through myself, in and out again. Transformation. It doesn't really make any sense. It doesn't have to make sense. It just does.I don't even think I'll be able to explain what this book is even about. The Goodreads synopsis doesn't even come close to explaining anything what this book is about. As it should. I think it's something that should be experienced as you read. It could become clear. Or it could not.It's only the February, the second fucking month of this year and I already have a new found favorite. God bless. "Luminous dust folds into a flat silver curve with two soft spiral arms."Let the metamorphosis begin. Vita Nostra. Our Life. Will never be the same.5 STARSTwitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
4616732668	Gonna do shrooms and reread this
629226931	This is a most unusual novel, especially for Western readers. It's strange and thoughtful and dark, full of psychological twists and turns, metaphysical tangents, and the desperately humorous shenanigans of young adults carrying on at a grim Russian boarding school that is turning them all into... what, they do not exactly know.I described Marina and Sergey Dyachenko's novel The Scar as "swords & sorcery if written by Fyodor Dostoevsky." I don't think I'm stretching the Russian-lit analogy too much to call this book "Harry Potter if written by Leo Tolstoy."I liked The Scar so much that I sought out other works by the Dyachenkos translated into English. Sadly, there are was only one: Vita Nostra, the first book in their "Metamorphosis cycle." And it's only available on Amazon as an ebook. According to the afterword, it was translated by a Russian-born fan living in the U.S., which explains why the translation didn't read with the same professional smoothness as the Tor-published The Scar.The Scar, with its themes of morality and consequences, punishment and redemption, reminded me of Dostoevsky. Vita Nostra is an even darker story, with occasional flashes of humor surfacing in the dark waters of a story that seems to be dragging you along toward some unknown, unknowable fate, with characters who have few choices, who know they exist only to act out their predefined roles. They resist this predestination, even knowing that resistance is futile. This valiant effort to find hope in the face of crushing inevitability reminded me more of that grim old sourpuss Graf Tolstoy.Alexandra "Sasha" Samokhina is a 17-year-old straight-A student, preparing to apply to university. She's been a good girl, a dutiful daughter to her single mother. Then one day a stranger appears while she and her mother are on vacation at the beach, and makes an unusual demand of her. He demands she swim naked out to a bouy every morning at exactly 4 a.m.Following some instinct, Sasha complies... and each morning after her swim, she vomits up gold coins. She soon learns that the world is indeed fragile, and that refusing Farit Kozhennikov's demands has a heavy price.Farit's unusual "tasks" continue when Sasha and her mother go home. Sasha finds herself alienated from her friends, and distanced from her mother, who does not understand what strange pressures her daughter is under. It only gets worse when Sasha informs her mother that instead of the university they both planned on, she has to attend the Institute of Special Technologies, a technical school no one has ever heard of in a small town that's practically off the map.Aren't you tired of books being called "Harry Potter for adults"? But I'm sorry, it's such an easy comparison to make, and Vita Nostra may deserve that label, albeit it's set in an adult unworldly boarding school in a very Russian vein. Sasha has to ride a train to the middle of nowhere to arrive at Torpa, where the Institute of Special Technologies is located, but the Institute is no Hogwarts. The teachers are sometimes warm and friendly, sometimes cold and demanding, but they all force students to study things they don't even understand, pursuing a degree they can't comprehend, to do things after graduation that they can't even imagine.The oppressive lack of information and the constant undercurrent of foreboding, the threat of sinister consequences for failure, makes the reader as frustrated as Sasha for much of the book. What is the Institute for Special Technologies? Are they teaching magic? Are students learning to alter the fabric of reality? Are they being transformed into something inhuman? It's not really explained at all until near the end, and even then it's very abstract and metaphysical. Sasha undergoes transformations, exhibits frightening powers, and moves from a frightened, confused First Year to a confused, increasingly alienated Third Year, one with a talent that exceeds that of all her classmates, though her own teachers won't even tell her what her talent is and why she's so special.All of this takes place in a fictional Russian town with a heavy flavor of magical realism. There is a "Sacco and Vanzetti" Avenue. The townspeople seem to tolerate without really accepting or understanding the Institute's students. Sasha initially shares a dorm room with other students, and as she's struggling with her bizarre, incomprehensible subjects, she's engaged in petty roommate conflicts, college students getting illicitly drunk, and eventually relationship drama. The townspeople seem vaguely aware that Institute students are not "normal," but dismiss them as strange, not entirely welcome visitors to their town.In a very real sense — more real than most so-called "Young Adult" novels — Vita Nostra is a novel for young adults. It's about becoming an adult, and discovering truly hard tasks where failure actually has consequences, and doing so amidst the swirling temptations of song, dance, parties, alcohol and sex. It's about the confusion of not knowing what you're going to be when you grow up, of seeing yourself as a free-willed individual with choices lying ahead of you and then discovering that you are at the mercy of forces you cannot control or negotiate with. It's about trying not to lose the parent-child bond even when you are forced to let go.“You’ve just seen me?” Portnov sounded surprised. “You manifest entities, read highly complex informational structures, and you’ve only just seen me?”Sasha managed a shallow nod, and then shut her eyes, trying to drive the tears back into her eyes.“What’s the matter?” now Portnov sounded worried. “Sasha?”“You are not human,” Sasha whispered.“So? Neither are you.”“But I had been human. I had been a child. I remember that. I remember being loved.”“Does it matter to you?”“I remember it.”This is not a "traditional" fantasy novel. It defies Western genre labels. It's as much horror as fantasy, as much contemporary realism as it is magical realism. It's rather hard to describe and it was sometimes frustrating to read and there are depths that I sensed lurking beneath this translation that might be more evident to its Russian audience. If you like dark fantasy, I think you will like it. If you like Russian literature (and don't mind a fantastic element), you will definitely like it. But it's a very strange book, and it doesn't follow a standard Western fantasy arc. Things are described in vague, esoteric terms and the relevance and meaning is never always made clear to the reader, which forces you to swim in the same existential confusion afflicted upon the characters.Please, folks, go buy this ebook. It's only $2.99. Yeah, I know, it's Amazon. Someone should tell them how to sell ebooks on other sites. But I want you to read it and I want more people to buy it because I want more of the Dyachenkos' work to be translated into English. You may not love this (my final rating is 4.5 stars for a somewhat raw translation and many moments of befuddlement) but if you want something different from the same-old, same-old fantasy novel, these are some authors who deserve a wider audience.
3444523530	Complete nonsense. I pushed through to the end and highly regret the time I have wasted in my life reading this. And that is all I care to say about this book.
4323161776	Did I read this book? Yes. Could I explain this book? No. Did I enjoy this book? Ehhhhh….I honestly don’t quite know my feelings on this one. I started out enjoying it, and for the most part did like following Sasha’s progress through this university, especially in relation to other people and how relationships changed over this time. But this book is unconventional in multiple ways.The first being the magic system itself (if you would even call it magic? They certainly never did, but then again they never explained anything in simple terms). The somewhat magical education was convoluted on purpose, a meticulously confusing mesh of all areas of study that seem to take you beyond human experience. All descriptions are abstract, and instead of explaining how something works it often felt like the tutors would merely repeat “do you understand?” until one day our characters did. It definitely felt like a book you simply had to go along with and hope for the best. Interestingly too, this book has no clear antagonist besides the convoluted education itself, and the struggle to understand this. Despite the school being ran by fear, no specific person was blamed for this, and it always remained difficult to pinpoint exactly who or what would control the darker aspects of the school. Then we have the format too, the lack of chapters allowing no break from this intense deep dive into metaphysics and abstractions. In some ways I think this actually worked well with the story, providing a subtle nod to the inescapable feeling of the university and pushing the intensity felt by the characters onto the reader themselves. But it’s definitely not the sort of book to make things easy for its reader. In terms of enjoyability, this ended up being pretty middle-of-the-road for me come the end. This to me feels like one I’d appreciate more upon analysis, and reread, rather than just as a leisurely pastime. With its strong points being the academic intensity and seemingly clever world building, it almost feels as though that same level of study needs to be applied to enjoy it fully.
2763119059	I absolutely loved this book. Another reviewer described it as "like Harry Potter, but if it was written by Kafka" and I couldn't agree more, in the best way. Dark, clever, and with a wonderfully creative and original magic system that I wish I'd thought of first. It resonates so deeply as some kind of theological truth about creation that feels both specific and universal and I'm into it. The pacing is solid (hard to put down), the mystery at the heart of the book is revealed slowly but once I understood it, I was 100% in. The characters feel real and honest and the worldbuilding and setting are effortless and ring culturally true. I have heard some talk about things lost in translation (one of the authors says as much in the acknowledgments) and it makes me wish I read Russian, but, alas. It's still one hell of a book.
5055573195	I don't know how to write a review right now. When a book truly speaks to me, when I find myself so fully absorbed and affected by the powerful world that mere words can create (oh, I didn't mean the allusion here, for those of you who have already read this book), I simply can't calm my thoughts and turn them into coherent sentences.Please don't be misled by that blurb. Vita Nostra is nothing like The Bear and the Nightingale, and it's definitely not a coming-of-age fantasy where a dark academy serves only as a hook or background prop. In fact, I'd hesitate to even call it fantasy at all. The speculative elements are equal parts fantasy and sci-fi: the "magic system", methodically studied at the university and meticulously explained to us readers, is reminiscent of higher-dimensional science, and many aspects of its application echo The Matrix and Westworld. But there is much more than that. The processes which the students go through to learn this system--focusing not on the physical challenges and dangers but rather on paradigm shifts, existential dilemmas, struggles of isolation and inclusion, etc.--are examined so closely that they essentially take the central stage of the story. And that is what makes Vita Nostra such a unique, philosophical work of art.It is difficult to go into too much detail on the ideology side of the book without spoilers, so I'll have to settle for saying that one of the authors used to be a psychiatrist, and it shows. The journey of our main character Sasha is a transcendental one, but at the same time, it is portrayed so realistically that I found myself resonating deeply with it. In a strange way, I could relate so well to the thrill of penetrating an invisible wall that limits one's perspective, the bizarre and detached peace of looking at the world from the outside, and at times I envy Sasha for being able to live and breathe that kind of experience.Speaking of envy, most readers would probably disagree with me on that. Most other reviews will tell you that this book is dark and unsettling, and it'd be an utter nightmare to live in that world. While I can't say those opinions are wrong, I do think that everyone's take on "dark" will depend on their personal background. For me, Vita Nostra isn't precisely dark, but rather hauntingly realistic. The academy is a blown-up version of a communist military-style education system. The conflicts between the students and teachers mirror real-life questions that I don't think we can confidently answer: do our actions have consequences? Do we truly have full agency over our choices, or are we being pushed along in one way or another? Do we really understand our role in the universe, and do we need to take responsibility for it? Even the more sensitive topics touched upon, such as (view spoiler)[discipline and submission, sex and virginity, aggression, addiction (hide spoiler)], are all within our daily reach as well. So I'd say this book is only "dark" in the sense that it challenges you to inspect those less pleasant things in life under a big magnifying glass, and makes you ponder. Which is why I loved it.By all means, it is not perfect. I'll be the first to admit that the story might not have captured me initially if not for all the glorious reviews from friends I trust. The beginning was very slow and things didn't quite pick up until Part Two (167 pages in), though once they did, I couldn't put the book down. There were also many places where the plot and characters could've been better developed. (view spoiler)[The theme of "using fear to control and manipulate" was one of them. To me, Farit Kozenikov was the only person who had ever taken real action to induce fear from the students, and even those actions could've been perceived ambiguously most of the time. For example, if it's true that he never asks for the impossible, and if it's true that these students have to fulfill a certain destiny to sustain reality (which hopefully will be explained in the sequels), then can we really say that he is threatening them unfairly? Also, it wasn't obvious for most of the book whether he was really the one causing the deaths of the students' families or not. Since this is clearly a world where unknown magic exists, one could just as easily believe it's the student's own actions that led to those tragedies, simply due to the rules of the universe. These ambiguities significantly undermined the "threat" theme, and that's probably also why the story didn't turn out as dark for me.For the same reason, I thought the ending was a bit forced. There wasn't strong enough of a buildup to Sasha's choice of "love over fear" during the final test, and that choice itself seemed somewhat contradictory to her character, given that the main conflict between her and the teachers had always stemmed from her craving for new knowledge and power, not love or fear for the people around her. (hide spoiler)]But let's be fair: for a book this cerebral, it's probably not feasible to wrap up all the loose threads with a satisfying conclusion. And at the end of the day, Vita Nostra is not about the plot or the characters as much as it is about an idea, an experience. So I can look past all these imperfections and still call it the best book I've read this year.
2597302232	GR friends have pointed out they can tell whether I am enjoying a book by how long it takes me to read it - so the fact it took me 8 days to complete 400 pages should tell you something (in comparison, I read the 500 pages of the far superior The Book of Strange New Things in less than 2 days). I'm not sure what even drew me to this book in the first place, since I don't read much fantasy (although this barely qualifies), so it must have been the Russian aspect ... or the VERY cool cover. I WASN'T expecting Dostoevsky, but maybe something more al0ng the lines of Sergei Lukyanenko's intriguing 'Watch' books, which I really liked. [Fun fact: Timur Bekmambetov, who directed fabulous films of the first two Watch books is also set to adapt this mess - good luck to him!)This landed squarely in the wheelhouse of things that drive me crazy in a book - tedious descriptions of things that ultimately have no meaning; repetitious episodes (cf., 'Reservoir 13' and 'Milkman'); pseudo-profundity that doesn't really denote ANYTHING, or bear close scrutiny; schmaltzy ending. This is basically one trope repeated ad nauseum: protagonist Sasha is assigned a bizarre and ridiculous task to complete (i.e., swimming naked to a buoy and back at 4 AM; listening to silent CDs for hours on end; jogging around a park for an hour and then peeing in the bushes - no, I am NOT making that up - that IS the level of this horror-show!) ... she initially has trouble complying, and then - voila - is able to do the task ... rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat. The writing itself is flat (perhaps due to an inferior translation?), and the subsidiary characters all tend to blur together. Episodes that would seem to have some importance are tossed off so offhandedly (e.g., the attack at the ending of part one), that when they are brought up 150 pages later I couldn't even recall them and had to backtrack... and then they lead nowhere anyway. Anyway, by the time I figured out this wasn't going anywhere interesting, I had already gotten to the 1/3 way mark and valiantly trudged on, but wish I had trusted my instinct to DNF it... What a lousy start to 2019! :-(
2595194728	Vita Nostra is a dark and deeply provocative novel about psychological and metaphysical transformation that defies explanation even after you get to the end. It is so compelling to read, with endlessly twisting turns that loop back as often as they split off or move forward. I wouldn't necessarily be able to explain it all to someone, but I'm confident it will keep my internal dialogue going for a long time.
3023528889	“Anything that is truly valuable is beyond material substance if you think about it.”Among the people who write fantasy novels, there is a clear over-representation of the English-speakers. However, there are many talented writers of other nationalities; the Dyachenko duet, winners of numerous literary awards, is one of them. I think the Dyachenkos are at the moment a strong contender to dethrone the Andrews in my personal “married couples writing” hierarchy.Alexandra Samokhina, an average teenager, spends holidays with her mother at a seaside resort. This is the last high-school summer for her and the approaching year will be crucial as it will determine which university she will be admitted to. One day, a mysterious man subjects her to a series of strange tests designed to develop Sasha’s discipline and strong will. Sasha fulfils them almost perfectly, and this “almost” has serious and unpleasant consequences. To her astonishment, the girl is admitted to a non-listed Institute of Special Technologies in a provincial town of Torpa. Vita Nostra is a perfect example why you should never trust the cover blurbs. Whereas the description on the back suggests that you will read a Harry Potter style novel, this is very far removed from the actual content of the book. Yes, there is a “magic school” inaccessible to the average person; learning to fly, predicting the future, telekinesis: all these elements appear in the tale, but in a completely different form you’d expect them to! Indeed, “magic” itself is not what is commonly understood by this term, but denotes a way of perceiving the reality, and transforming it according to rules that are not clearly defined and, what is repeated frequently throughout the pages, extremely difficult to explain. What further distinguishes Vita Nostra from Ms Rowling’s cycle is that, while education at Hogwarts remains my unfulfilled dream, an admission to the Institute of Special Technologies in Torpa would score quite high on my personal list of nightmares (not only because of my inherent laziness and reluctance to do absurd things whose purpose is obscure).“Everyone in the world has a chance of encountering someone whom he himself spoke out loud.”Is this a fantasy book? Perhaps yes (because: it’s magic, stupid!). Nonetheless, the action takes place in our world (Crimea?), somewhere in the 1990s and the strange, little-known university in Torpa is so unlikely that the book can also be considered science fiction. The cover description suggests a cheerful story for teens with an occasional thrill of horror to boost the mysterious climate. What you should expect, is rather a constant shiver of anxiety interspersed with cheerful flashes from the lives of ordinary students (although the school itself is far from ordinary). Normal, almost banal life is combined with constant insecurity, fear, and lack of understanding rooted in an incomprehensible educational process. A heavy blanket of dark atmosphere, mystery, anxiety, and danger permeate the whole book. What are they learning? To what ends? What do physics, personality breakdown, and sprats in tomato sauce have to do with this? The novel presents a unique, sensational idea, a combination of metaphysical vision and purely humanist tribute to the powers of the human mind. It combines metaphysics with the everyday student life. The authors should definitely be praised for holding their cards close to their chests for so long. The modest dosage of information about what students of the Institute of Special Technologies in Torpa really learn means that each subsequent morsel related to this causes a faster heartbeat. The Dyachenko wrote a tale of change, both mental and physical; complicated, sometimes sudden and uncontrolled, frightening, but also fascinating. Metamorphosis is necessary to reach one’s destiny, yet the shape of this destiny remains clouded. The motivation for continuous development is fear, the only emotion that is strong enough to prompt the human being into action. The rich psychological portrait of the heroine makes us feel all these transformations on a very personal level. The deceptively simplistic albeit captivating writing style beautifully marries the personal banalities with the philosophical intricacies. And if you decide to go for Vita Nostra, be warned that while it is an amazing, it is not an easy book as it contains depths and reflections touching upon many philosophical issues. And the intellectual development of the main plot is truly fascinating moving the novel, in the ending sequence, far beyond fantasy, onto the mystical realm. Vita Nostra is a novel that makes the return to the gray reality all the more difficult. Earnestly recommend to all who want to read something fresh and placed East of the West but West of the more popular Far East tropes.
3768684515	Im not totally sure what I just read. But I liked it.
3676766741	Damn. Mind blown. What a book! For the first half, I felt a little indifferent to the story. I wasn't taken away by the writing style; I wasn't really sure where it was going and how much I cared about our main character or the narrative. But then the second half came along, and holy shit, this book is wild. I didn't fully understand it all, but boy, did I love it!This book is mind-bending and mind-expanding, unlike anything I've read before. Fascinating and confounding and frustrating, fast-paced and heart-pounding. Intriguing and terrifying. Vita Nostra is a new favourite, though it's definitely one I will have to reread a few times to dive deeper and fully understand.I highly recommend this book to lovers of dark academia, WeirdLit, and sci-fi."There are concepts that cannot be imagined but can be named. Having received a name, they change, flow into a different entity, and cease to correspond to the name, and then they can be given another, different name, and this process—the spellbinding process of creation—is infinite: this is the word that names it, and this is the word that signifies. A concept as an organism, and text as the universe.” Watch my video review here: https://youtu.be/IYrtk_IXx7QTrigger/Content Warnings: vomit, use of ableist language, abuse, sexual assault, blackmail/coercion, violence, blood, deathYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
3488932477	Like The Magicians and A Deadly Education, which had similar tropes and themes...I wasn't too keen on this either. When I was reading it, I was flying through it, but the minute I set it down, I had no interest in picking it back up again. It was just so WEIRD. I wanted to like it more than I did, but I can't even put into words why I didn't like it. The students were forced to attend against their will and practically psychologically tortured throughout this book, which makes it even worse than A Deadly Education and The Magicians because it takes everything to an extreme degree. This wasn't a very enjoyable reading experience for me and I'm hesitant to recommend it to others. I guess if you truly love dark academia with a touch of fantasy elements, you might enjoy it? Even if the rest of the series is translated from Russian to English in the future, I doubt that I'll be continuing on with this series.
4367515383	*3.5
5119659118	Vita Nostra captivated me. I had to hide it at the back of my sock drawer to keep from reading it straight through the workday. It is bursting with ideas—about the relationship between love and fear, about what motivates people to act or not act, about the structures of institutions, about violence and sex. It is a sort of twisted bildungsroman, very dark but suitably cozy for a December evening. A book more concerned with meaning than story, which at times feels more like a series of extended metaphors than a fantasy novel. It infected my life and made me want to study and to dream.
3250196678	*** 4.75 ***"... “There are words that are simply trash, refuse, they turn into nothing immediately after they are spoken. Others throw shadows, hideous and pathetic, and sometimes gorgeous and powerful, capable of saving a dying soul. But only a few of these words become human beings and pronounce other words. And everyone in the world has a chance of encountering someone whom he himself spoke out loud . . .”... I don't think I can give the right explanation, and it is weird that the word "Explanation" is needed here, but it is, for this very interesting and unique book. While I was reading the first half of the book, the only other book I could compare it in my more recent reading history, was The Magicians series, but much better written and much more thought out. Then about the 60% mark things become bigger, become more...!!! It is not a book of things that happen, but a compilation of the emotional and mental experiences of a person with unlimited potential, going through and destroying the barriers in themselves on the way to reaching that potential... It is about the experience of self discovery and our relation to the world around us. It is about breaking oneself down to their basic components and rebuilding themselves according to their will and imagination. It is big, larger than life, reaching for omnipotence...!!!! And it is experienced through the nerve endings and sensory input and output of a teenage woman who, as most of us would, wants to retain the idea of who and what she is, but is driven by her insatiable hunger for knowledge and the rewards and losses that come with that... "... “There are concepts that cannot be imagined but can be named. Having received a name, they change, flow into a different entity, and cease to correspond to the name, and then they can be given another, different name, and this process—the spellbinding process of creation—is infinite: this is the word that names it, and this is the word that signifies. A concept as an organism, and text as the universe.”― Marina Dyachenko, Vita Nostra... Ultimately, this book is art, and just as art, it attempts to show us, in more tangible way, what life really is, what all humans must go through if they are to be More! To not be satisfied with little effort and a pittance of results, but to strive for More, and the harder you go at it, the harder it gets, but the rewards are immeasurable and so very worth it! The end result of who you are depends on what you put in it. And the work is never truly done. You are always in construction, you can always become more... So, stop blaming your childhood, your parents, society, school, all those things that are uncomfortable and try to keep you in check... Yes, they are limiting, but within their limits you can still find ways, without endangering anyone else, to reach for your potential. You just have to try harder, in order to become the words, which create the World! "... “The world, as you see it, is not real. And the way you imagine it—it does not even come close. Certain things seem obvious to you, but they simply do not exist.”“And you, do you not exist?” Sasha couldn’t help herself. “Are you not real?”Portnov removed the scarf from her face. Under his gaze, she blinked confusedly.“I exist,” he said seriously. “But I am not at all what you think.”― Marina Dyachenko, Vita Nostra ... This is a book I would recommend to all, but I do realize that is one of those which you either love, hate, or they leave you ambivalent and confused... There isn't much action, the way it slowly develops step by step in front of you. It is deliberate and many who look for it to entertain you, would be disappointed. The authors want you to look for the meaning and find the entertainment in it by yourself. It builds and it builds and it builds, and the ending will be up to you to discover. It needs patience and an open mind. If you feel that it is something you want to tackle, then you really should!!! "... “This institution of higher education had no such concept as mercy.”..." Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always fond what you need in the pages of a good Book!!!!
2637522006	This book was like Harry Potter, if Harry Potter gets a letter from Hagrid implying that Hagrid will murder him and his family if he doesn't go to Hogwarts, and once he gets to Hogwarts, there is no magic, only a former Soviet college in a small, bleak industrial town where hardly anything ever happens and Harry is forced into an endless series of meaningless tasks (memorizing words that make no sense, having to run at 5 in the morning every day in the winter) that never end. In that sense, it is the perfect Russian novel. However, holy shit is it bleak and gives no payoff for the reader whatsoever. Some reviewers are thinking that something got lost in translation, and, having read it in Russian, I can say that nothing got lost in translation. It is just that terrible.
3701068440	What a ride this was! I hardly know how to martial my thoughts about it--it's sort of like trying to describe the taste of something to someone who's never even heard of the food before. If you've read it, you likely know what I'm thinking about. If you haven't read it yet...maybe try it? You might hate it and spit it out, but you might love it!CONTENT WARNINGS: (view spoiler)[ coercion of will, sexual coercion, mental torture, loss of a loved one, attempted suicide. (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-I've never read anything like this. I mean yes, magic school, sure, fine. But...this ain't Hogwarts or Kvothe's University. It's... hmm. Have you read 72 Words by Ted Chiang? Imagine that, written by Philip K Dick, but Russian. -So effing creepy/trippy/mindblowing. I can't say any more about this, but it's hard fantasy--REALLY hard fantasy.-But also human? Idk man, this is super cerebral but also, like, we talk about new babies and haircuts and stuff.-I guess just the writing/translation. Brilliantly translated IMO. Tense, emotive, scary and liberating.Things not to love:-Everything I just said. Totally valid not to love that all.-End...ing? A bit abrupt? Not entirely sure what happened or what the motivation there was.This was An Experience, and I highly recommend people who like magic school stories, new weird and/or dark fantasy. I'm gonna have to think on this.
4303817919	vlog de leitura: https://youtu.be/5CDn2x__2KY
612015592	Я бы хотела сказать, что я закончила эту книгу, но я ее совсем не закончила. Но формально дочитала, да.Я бы хотела снять на нее обзор, но я начинаю плакать после первых слов - и уже 4 дубля могу только реветь.В общем, главная загадка книги решилась для меня довольно быстро, но касательно деталей я и не думала. В общем, мне вспоминается 4 курс, зимняя, кажется, сессия, когда я на консультации по синтаксису спросила:"Ну а тут почему нельзя образовать глагол повелительного наклонения? Отлично же образуется". А преподаватель мне строго сказала:"Ну нельзя же от чувств образовывать повелительное наклонение". И до сих пор сложно это понять и принять: ведь если ты можешь - значит, это можно сделать. Мне кажется, что тут речь о том, сколько тебе на самом деле подвластно - и одновременно отнюдь не в твоей власти. Я, честно говоря, не знаю, как читать эту книгу и не плакать, тут столько всего живого, больного и важного - и, в общем, все как всегда ко времени. Очень хорошо и то, что у Дяченко нет всех этих классических принцесс, очень все, знаете ли, современно звучит: чтобы быть собой, придется от чего-то отказаться, что-то поставить на карту и. Не знаю, слово "потерять" - оно такое жалкое, ты никогда ничего не теряешь, ты впитываешь, преобразовываешь, оно остается с тобой навсегда, ну просто не так линейно, как можно было бы предположить. И вот это все - и отказ (и когда Стерх говорит, что Саше не хотелось, но ей было нужно - это вот тоже туда, в самое солнечное сплетение), и разрушение, и принятие, и движение по своей дороге - и при этом всем очень важно и нужно понять, что. Что же нужно понять? Что развитие только вне зоны комфорта? Что ты всегда будешь расти там, где тебе страшно и больно? Что ты всегда будешь бояться и преодолевать? Что твоя воля - это единственное, что у тебя есть как инструмент развития? Ты боец и этим хорош и ценен? Честно говоря, я не знаю. Я знаю только, что иногда самое сложное начинается там, где ты отказываешься быть волей и просто даешь себе шанс не бояться. И просто звучишь. Это так много.
4846406762	this started off reading good but i found all the characters flat and because this really had no plot it became hard for me to pay attention. it was a really good book and had so many shocking moments
1009336664	(cross posted from my blog review) Sasha is a normal, straight-A high-school student; until, on a holiday with her mother, a strange man with dark glasses approaches her, and asks her to get up at 4am every morning and swim to a buoy on the beach. She tries to ignore him, but when she does so, time stops passing: the same day loops over and over, trapping her in a morass of impending dread. When she finally takes the man’s advice and swims, she finds herself vomitting gold coins on the beach–and, before she knows it, onboard a train to a university in the middle of nowhere, where she will learn Specialty. The nature of Specialty is unclear, the textbook abstruse; but the penalty for failure is all too clear, ranging from the death of the students’ families to the impairment and death of the students themselves. Specialty is a book filled with incomprehensible sentences; but as the students read it, they find themselves changing in mind and body–and Sasha, who is ahead of her peers, is destined for something both huge and frightening…The parallels between this and Harry Potter are hard to ignore (magical school, specially picked students), but you should probably put them out of your mind. Vita Nostra is a different, darker book: the students are university-age, with more adult preoccupations; and the magic, far from cookie-cutter spells, is impredictable, incomprehensible, and wildly dangerous; and Sasha’s position as a special student is far from enviable. There’s a palpable, oppressive sense of doom and dread throughout the entire novel, building to a very satisfying climax (which nevertheless leaves a lot of questions dangling in the air: this isn’t a book which will do a point-by-point explanation of its worldbuilding, but it’s a book that works as it is). I read this cover to cover in an evening (which should tell you something, as any free time those days is generally against my better judgment): the book draws you in, and, especially in the last quarter or so, an accelerating build-up towards the placement exam that is meant to seal the students’ fate, is darn hard to put down. Recommended.This is my first book from the Dyachenkos, a Ukrainian husband-and-wife team, but it certainly won’t be my last: Tor published their epic fantasy The Scar, and I have every intention of trying it…
3015042737	"Vita Nostra brevist est – Our life is short”This book is so strange but yet so engaging at the same time.. when someone said this is a “Harry potter book written by Kafka”.. he is completely rightI think the translator did great job translated this Ukraine book, I love the easy to read writing style so much, we followed Alexandra Samokhina (Sasha) when she “forced” to enter this magical school, this school is not a normal full of wonder school… this school is terrifying and student need to learn and pass their grades or terrible things will happened to the people they love, not the type of criminal terrible things but something look naturaly or accidently happened (like heart attack, died because of old age ect ect), even though this school is depressing and terrifying but they also “teach” the student to be something beyond they can think about, this school is the best but also the worst school a student can enter.. confuse? Yeah me too 😂😂 i honestly never read something like this, it was so mindfuckery but also so much fun at the same timeI can see this book is not the type of book everyone will love, BUT if you love strange magical things (school especially) and also love Russian inspired story try this book, it will blown your mind!
5104716685	Wish I knew how to review this but alas, I’m not intelligent and this shit is way over my head
5011361686	Why do they read complex books? Well, the question is, everyone has their own reason. Maybe you need to sort out some difficult, to the point of unaffordable, your question, and talk about it at the proper level, with no one. Or you feel the need to stop amid the daily hustle and bustle, clear your thoughts from the husk, make them whole. Or the hero and the plot were hooked on something from the very beginning and now "the further, the stranger", neither cause much sympathy, nor interest, but you can't postpone. Or you read everything written by the author, just because you know it's yours.With Marina and Sergey Dyachenko, the fourth reason is in the first place. Stunned by the "Ritual" in immemorial times, I do not miss any of their books. The third - but I know that at some point, even if only to the final, the understanding of the underlying motives will come. And the second and the first - it always happens to you with their novels. "Vita Nostra" is complicated. Not so, it is heavy, "the shaking of his stone right hand is heavy," says Pushkin's Don Guan. So, the girl Sasha is not a hand, the whole nature is squeezed in a stone inexorable embrace.Созидая мирыТак век за веком - скоро ли, Господь? -Под скальпелем природы и искусстваКричит наш дух, изнемогает плоть,Рождая орган для шестого чувства.ГумилевДля чего читают сложные книги? Ну и вопросец, у всякого своя причина. Может, тебе необходимо разобраться в каком-то трудном, до неподъемности, своем вопросе, а поговорить об этом на должном уровне, не с кем. Или чувствуешь необходимость остановиться среди повседневной суеты, очистить мысли от шелухи, сделать их цельными. Или герой и сюжет чем-то зацепили с самого начала и вот уже "чем дальше, тем страньше", ни симпатии особой не вызывают, ни интереса, а отложить не можешь. Или читаешь все, написанное автором, просто потому что знаешь - это твое.С Мариной и Сергеем Дяченко четвертая причина на первом месте. Оглушенная "Ритуалом" в незапамятные времена, ни одной их книги не пропускаю. Третья - но знаю ведь, что в какой-то момент, хотя бы даже и к финалу, понимание глубинных мотивов придет. А вторая и первая - это уж завсегда с их романами у тебя случается. "Vita Nostra" сложна. Не так, тяжела, "тяжело пожатье каменной его десницы", - говорит пушкинский дон Гуан. Так вот, девочке Саше не руку, все естество сжимают в каменных неумолимых объятиях.Оттого, момент сопричастности затруднен чрезвычайно. Читая Конан Дойла, большинство из нас ассоциируют себя с Ватсоном, ясно почему. В отличие от гения Холмса мы нормальны (в смысле - не превышаем нормы). "Выбор Софи" Стайрона проводит героиню через такой тяжести испытания, что не будь спасительной фигуры Стинки, рассказчика, в которого можно нырнуть, когда тяжесть становится невыносимой, не сумела бы дочитать. А и сумев, несла в себе книгу два десятка лет. Такой, компактно упакованный внутренний Аушвиц.Саша Самохина, благо, современница и соотечественница. И много еще "со-": воспитана мамой без отца; приличная, но без особых возможностей, семья; а значит, полагаться придется только на себя; особой красоты не дано, хотя не урод; неглупая, однако в нобелианты не ей метить. И ни-ко-го рядом, кому можно было бы рассказать страшную правду о мире, внезапно обратившемся удавом. Который давит-давит свою жертву. Ни за что, просто так,Так-то вариантов много. Можно помереть. Можно игнорировать требования и сгубить других, кто тебе дорог (я вам больше скажу, почти все так и поступают в итоге, хотя даже себе нипочем не признАются). А можно что-то медленно задвигать внутрь себя, как уменьшается нещадно бинтуемая в древнем Китае девичья стопа, одновременно вытягивая-выращивая из себя что-то другое. Когти или рога, или крылья. Героиня выбирает третий вариант.Я почему сейчас говорю об этом, наткнулась вчера в сообществе на вопрос, как понимать финал. Позвольте, мой вариант. Это просто, хотя на первый взгляд отдает психушкой. Акт космогонии, Александра сотворила новый Мир, став одновременно создателем и воплощением. Такая вот симпатичная ересь.
5910580374	2.45/5 ⭐I was immensely intrigued by the beautiful cover of this book and the interesting title, the blurb didn't sound that bad either, and the rating was good so I said...why not?I am not entirely sure what has just happened. Maybe it was my own fault, but I couldn't really feel this book the way it was supposed to be felt :(This book offered a variety of interesting stages of feelings, but all happening somehow simultaneously. I was bored as heck, confused as heck and also unsettled as heck all at the same time. This is indeed dark in an unsettling manner. Other than that, I can't really say I am a fan of it, sorry. The plot was inconsistent and it felt too full of details that could've easily been left aside. Also, the characters aren't really pleasant either.What I truly appreciated was the unique plot mixture between The Master and Margarita and Harry Potter . I've never encountered something like that before, and it impressed me. Great idea, fabulous inspiration, but a bit of an unpolished execution overall.
974259256	Таня! Это хорошая книжка, а три звезды я поставила потому, что читать ее жутко и страшно.Написанная чистым русским языком повесть о девочке Сашке, которую против воли заставляют вставать в четыре утра и учиться-учиться-учиться, с одной стороны, затягивает, с другой - ей сопротивляешься, как Сашка противится тишине, как не хочешь впускать в себя инородное, страшное, чужое. Вместе с таинственным доброжелателем (кто это, кстати, был?) хочется крикнуть Сашке, Косте, Егору - уезжай, пока не поздно! Однако с ужасом мы понимаем, что, конечно, уже поздно. С тотальным разрушением приходит новое самосознание, взрослеть и меняться - больно и очень опасно, крылья приходится прятать, и мыть их неудобно, но зато можно летать, бороться с чудовищами, вмещать в себя весь мир, главное - не бояться. Пусть это и очень сложно.Видимо, я всё-таки предпочитаю или катарсис, или хэппи-энд.
1496882643	A reread for my book clubI loved the book the first time I read it, a long time ago. I was overwhelmed, as in ”what is this???” and ”this is the weirdest book I’ve ever read!” But you never reread the same book, because you are not the same reader. So, I am not overwhelmed now, yet the book is brilliant and I see things I hadn't seen before and my thoughts on the reread were not the same.Your regular ordinary world is slowly turning into a strange, nightmare one. I loved how it was done in the first pages.This novel is an ode to the power of language and symbols, the gorgeousness and the horror of it. It is about finding meaning in chaos and darkness, through language.The horrible things done to the students and the manipulation hit me very hard this time. I wonder if only someone who has lived through oppression and experienced a totalitarian society in all its ghastliness and absurdity could have imagined this world. I kept thinking about all the beautiful young things burning so bright, and those who would step on them and twist, twist, twist, until people are remade to suit somebody else.Towards the end of the book, I started wondering about those text fragments that coalesced out of chaos (this is the power of the reread!). So I googled one of them and found Aristotle ☺ It warmed my heart, of course.I must confess that I did not understand the ending on the first read. That’s because I swallowed the book whole, dived into it, and then came up gasping for air, wondering what just happened. This time: the oppressors of any kind would have you believe that Love = Fear. The ending is Sasha’s answer to that, and it is full of courage and brilliance.That quote at the end is from the Gospels. Oh.
4871837687	3.0 StarsI am starting to wonder if I actually like dark academia or if I just keep picking the wrong ones. This one was starting out so promising but it ended up being so unsatisfying. The narrative always felt off kilter and unsettling, which should have made me love it. Yet I quickly grew tired of the old men telling her what to do and her blindly following their instructions. I suppose that's academia. Maybe that's the point of the whole story, but I wanted more.I review books on YouTube: https://youtube.com/@TheShadesofOrange
2350601327	In the beginning was the Word Science, or more specifically - the school of magic - is a trope that's used a lot in fantasy literature. Not surprising. If done well it’s a joy to read. Have Diachenko’s succeeded?Short answer - yes.Vita Nostra twists the trope in most unexpected ways. It’s strange, thoughtful and dark tale about metamorphosis (both physical and metaphysical) that contains coming of age elements.Sasha is a regular, high-school student who spends her holidays at the seaside. She enjoys the sun, fresh morning breeze, chill and happy atmosphere. Things change when a strange man with dark glasses approaches her and asks her to get up at 4 AM, go to the beach and swim naked to the buoy and back. Every single day.In the beginning, Sasha wants to ignore the lunatic, but it turns out that she just can’t. For many reasons. When she finally agrees and does her first 4 AM swim a bizarre thing happens – she vomits golden coins. She does it every day after her morning training. Things develop a bit from here, and soon she finds herself forced to enter the Institute of Special Technologies in Torpa. It’s an Institute in the middle of nowhere. Students aren’t told what’s the purpose of their studies. However, a failure in school isn’t an option. When it happens, a students’ loved ones pay the price.The students' fate remains unknown to them, but it seems they’ll change in significant and unexpected ways. For example, some of them will grow wings. Temporarily. And if you think it’s bizarre, you know nothing about bizarre. Happily, Dyachenko’s will educate you in a mind-blowing way.Students at the University are regular (at least in the beginning) teenagers anxious about growing up. They drink, smoke and have sex. They were selected for this school for reasons they don’t understand, forced to come to Torpa and pursue impossible and incomprehensible classes that will allow them to gain a degree they know nothing about.As a reader, you’re not in a better situation than students. Lack of information or at least some hints about studies' goal may be frustrating. We learn fast that students play with the fabric of the reality but how is a question I asked myself multiple times. Is it magic? What are they becoming? On the other hand, it's also one of the reasons why this novel is so fascinating and immersive. It's told in a way that allowed me to enter the world smoothly and imagine and experience impossible things. Occasional flashes of humor surface from time to time, but it’s not a joyful tale. Characters have few choices, and their existence serves a higher purpose known only be their mysterious and severe teachers. The storytelling is influenced by modernism, and magical realism works. The story happens in the modern era - telephones and cell phones exist in this place but aren't as readily available as in real life. Torpa is in the middle of nowhere, and its inhabitants are just sketched. They don't play any significant role in the story.Dyachenko's focus on their characters' psychology and inner metamorphosis. They touch philosophical and metaphysical questions with finesse and skill that made me reread the ending five times. Why is being human so vital to you? Isn't it because you don't know anything else? This book crafts wholly new vision of the world and the laws that govern it. As the story progresses, Dyachenko's share some insights into the world metaphysics and if you've ever been fascinated with the language and power of the words, you'll be satisfied with some of the discoveries.I could go on, but I won't. Instead, I'll tell you this - it's one of the best books I've ever read. It combines fascinating adventure with philosophical depth, impossible metamorphosis with profound psychological insights. It's strange. It's amazing. It's brilliant.Side note: I read Polish translation of the book. It seems there used to be an English version, but it's no longer available. Good news is that Tor will release a professional translation of Vita Nostra in November 2018.
2620864347	I don't understand the rave reviews. I found the book stilted, boring, almost unreadable. I did finish hoping for a revelation but found none.
2607319150	The best and most fascinating book I have read in years.
3309926256	“To live is to be vulnerable”I'm so incredibly mind fucked right now I don’t even know where to start…. This review is probably going to be a bit messy. Like my mind.This was probably the weirdest book I’ve ever read. Let’s start there. The way “magic” works here is so unique, it’s not even magic, it’s kind of a science of life? I still haven’t quite figured it out, I’m confused but in a very good way. Our protagonist, Sasha, had to work hard for her powers and I loved watching her do it. It did not come easy to her, she cried and she went through all sorts of emotions to become what she needed to be. The Sasha at the beginning of the book is a completely different person compared to the Sasha at the end of it. Obviously, I mean three years pass throughout this. You get to watch this confused girl grow into a flawed but bright young woman.This freaking school was brutal. They forced these kids to come and study a bunch of weird crap and if they didn’t then bad stuff happened. My first impression, naturally, was that this was a cult of sorts. That these kids were getting brainwashed. I was creeped but fascinated. It was quite refreshing to not have romance be the focus of the book. Vita Nostra wasn’t really character driven but it also wasn’t plot driven, it was somewhere in between… Concept driven? Is that a thing?The writing built these fascinating images in my head and it slightly reminded me of the way Laini Taylor’s works made me feel. I’m not saying you’ll like this if you like her stuff but try it out if you do.As for the audiobook, which I listened to as I read, it was quite lovely. I would definitely recommend it. Without it, I would probably be a lot more confused. The narrators' voice was relaxing. She did, however, mess up most of the Russian names but it’s fine.,. I’m used to it lol
4987931777	Wow I’ve never been more invested in a book where I absolutely knew fuck all that was happening
3034698936	This book is what A Deadly Education by Naomi Novik should have been! Despite that, I don't recommend it to everybody, because it will only really appeal to a select audience.Another reviewer described this as "Harry Potter but written by Franz Kafka" and that's accurate. But what that doesn't tell you is that this novel does not read like your average SFF genre novel. It is the weirdest thing I have read so far, and makes me miss reading more translated fiction because you don't see this creativity in English genre fiction nowadays. But I digress.This is a stellar translation, and despite the rough start you can hardly tell that you're reading a translation at all. Seems like this was originally published by the translator as an ebook and then acquired and further edited by Harper Voyager, so kudos to the Voyager team for their brilliant editing.What is the plot? 400 pages of our protagonist Sasha studying and overcoming obstacles. First, she meets a strange man at the beach who forces her to complete challenges (ex: swim naked in the ocean every day at 4 AM) or else she or her mother will get hurt. Even after she comes home, she's forced to continue these challenges, and each time she's successful she vomits gold coins. Soon, Sasha graduates high school and fails the university she had her heart set on... only to be accepted by the Institute of Special Technologies at the unknown, rural town of Torpa.Here, Sasha's lessons are difficult and incomprehensible, and failure means death. Absolutely nothing is explained to her: why was she chosen? what are they studying? As Sasha becomes the top student, she breaks off her friendships and romantic relationships, drifts away from her mother, and then experiences a terrible transformation...There are pleasant slice-of-life scenes here too as Sasha grows up and interacts with the other students. Ukrainian culture, youthful chaos, sex and failed relationships and tense friendships, annoying roommates and scary professors and classes that make your eyes bleed. You cannot fail, you cannot leave, because then that means your family will die. As Sasha advances in her studies, she starts to experience strange things, and understand the metaphysical, and then things get REALLY WEIRD...The worldbuilding/magic here is incredible; it's mainly philosophy and linguistics driven. To be honest, I still don't fully understand what happened at the end; I think it went a little too conceptual for me. The only reason why I rated this 4/5 stars is because it became a little too repetitive near the end. I started skimming a lot of pages. This book doesn't have chapters, just three Parts and lots of scene breaks. It may only be 400 pages but the font is small and this is LONG, fyi.Interestingly enough, I was still invested in the basic character work. This is a conceptually-driven story more than a plot or character-driven one, and yet I was fond of Sasha and her relationships with the others. I always loved it when she interacted with Kostya and Farit.I'm hoping to read more analyses from Ukrainian readers because I wonder if there's an extra layer of cultural nuance that I'm missing here. Despite not knowing much, I still enjoyed it a lot!UPDATE: Oops. My apologies for referring to it as Russian when the authors are Ukrainian. The Harper Voyager website has confused the two as well. Edited.
2579356059	Vita Nostra, first published in 2007 in Ukraine, tells the story of Alexandra (Sasha) Samokhina, who whilst vacationing with her mother meets Farit Kozhennikov, a strange and sinister-looking man who forces her to attend a remote and mysterious university. This novel follows her adventures and exploits. One word that cannot be used to describe this novel is boring. It is certainly far from that and combines many different genres to create a truly original story. While I did enjoy aspects, I, unfortunately, found it rather perplexing and surreal, so much so that for the majority of the time I had no inclination about what was actually happening! However, there was something stopping me from just giving up and moving on to something else. As a fan of Haruki Murakami and his intensely descriptive prose, I also appreciated that here, although those who don't enjoy that style of writing may wish to avoid this, as it means that the story is quite static and takes rather a long time to come to fruition. In the end, the story does make sense, and I respected the attempt at making it a unique title that readers will remember for a long time. By the time the conclusion came, I was very sad to be leaving this fantastical, fictional world and can now absolutely understand why this book has a cult following! I suspect I will pick this up again and see what sort of impression it leaves on me after the second time. Intriguing, extraordinary, well written, wonderfully atmospheric and thoroughly unforgettable. If you enjoy fantasy, I urge you to give this a go!Many thanks to HarperVoyager for an ARC. I was not required to post a review, and all thoughts and opinions expressed are my own.
5070443714	If you combined Bunny and Catherine House and then filtered it through a very Eastern European lens you’d get Vita Nostra….dunno if that’s a good thing, but it is a hell of a thing…
2614436969	Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsWow this was totally weird and very unique & I’m so incredibly bummed that the next couple of books in the series have not yet been translated to English. Definitely gave me The Magicians vibes but not quite as cynical.
3068266922	Ideas are not stories. This book is a good idea but it's a terrible story. An epic success for creativity and imagination, but a resounding failure of narrative and plot.
4626845603	This is one of the most complicated books I have ever read and it took me a while to understand the ending. The world-building was unique and complex. The concept of this book is quite honestly fascinating. I can't say too much without spoiling the plot. (view spoiler)[ But the idea that the universe is defined by grammar is amazing and at times, very hard to grasp. (hide spoiler)]The characters except for Sasha, our protagonist, were very unlikable. The book had no clear antagonist but had many morally grey characters. Farit Kozhennikov, Sasha's mentor, was the most interesting character in the book. This book dragged a lot at times and I skimmed through a lot of paragraphs. It is also quite unnecessarily long. The best word to describe this is unconventional. It is a Dark academia book with elements of fantasy sprinkled throughout it.
5131274727	The reader joins Sasha Samokhina as she begins her magical training at a school where no one tells her what they are teaching.Later that evening she was supposed to attend prep courses at the university. Sasha did not go. She lay on her bed, textbooks thrown aside, and thought, What's the point? Because clearly the world did not work the way she imagined before." pg 29, ebookThrough pain and suffering, Sasha slowly finds her way in this new world. If she fails, real world consequences follow, so she doesn't dare to fail.But what is it, exactly, that she's learning? Discovering that is one of the joys of this book."Attention, students," continued Portnov just as softly. "You are at the beginning of a journey, during which all of your strength will be required. Physical and mental. What we will be studying is not for everyone." pg 70, ebookA friend pointed out to me that this book has quite an eastern European feel to it. I knew as I was reading it that the tone was dark, but as soon as he said that I had to agree.This is not your typical magic school. It isn't kind, gentle, or forgiving."What will happen if we don't learn it?" Sasha asked. All three girls fell silent. The question that had tortured them all day was now out in the open." pg 76, ebookThat being said, the magic system itself is one of the most unique I have ever read. The reveal is very slow, but I thought it was definitely worth the wait.Recommended for older teens or adults because of some disturbing content.
3246873595	3.5 what the fuck even is this book
2622541456	First of all, I thought Vita Nostra was an amazing book, the best book I've read this year. It's a book I'll probably think over for a long time. But I'm having a hard time deciding what to write in a review. And from reading other reviews of the book, I think I may not be the only one who's suffered from that affliction. People tend to make a lot of the sinister, creepy (and bizarre) atmosphere of the magic school. Or they talk about how the book is about transformations. Or they mention the wonderfully drawn characters. All of this is true and any one of them is a reason you should pick up the book. But there's some other quality to the book that goes beyond what I feel like I can say about it. It's the kind of thing that makes you shove a book at someone in a book store with no explanation other than, "Read this, it's fantastic, I loved it!"Part of that is because Vita Nostra doesn't fit neatly into any genre pigeonholes. The story begins when a teenage Sasha is approached by a strange man while on holiday and given various bizarre and distasteful tasks to perform... or else. There aren't any Bertie Botts Every Flavor Beans in this magic school; instead, if you miss the train or if you don't do your homework, terrible things are going to happen to people you love. It's that strange, dark atmosphere that draws you into the story. At first I was just trying to figure out what was going on and hoping what I thought was going on wasn't. But at some point the story begins to change. It gets bigger. You watch Sasha going through all the normal things that people go through in their university years as they're growing into the adults that they're going to be. You watch her mother grapple with Sasha's changes, too. Characters make bad decisions and suffer consequences. You worry that everything is not going to be all right in the end. You realize that what you thought about all these people -- students and professors, especially professors -- might not be entirely true. Probably the story affected me more than it will affect some readers because I am at the stage in my life where I have two kids in college. So I both remember what it was like to go through that awkward late teens, early 20's period *and* I relate to Sasha's mother, who goes through her own growing pains as Sasha changes. According to the author's acknowledgments, the authors were in a similar stage of life when they wrote the book; their daughter was a teenager about to embark on her own journey to adulthood. I think that this makes the book, in the end, very compassionate toward both the younger characters as well as the older ones.The other reason this story resonated with me was how it dealt with fear and love. Almost three years ago my youngest child was born with Down Syndrome and a large hole in her heart, which was -- thank God -- able to be repaired by heart surgery. But sometimes I am still blindsided when I read a book that deals with the issue of watching those we love suffer. I will say that the ending struck exactly the right note for me, but I had to go cry for a while.Other people have remarked that this is a very Russian book, and I think that as most native English-speaking readers view Russian literature it probably is; it is dark, emotional, and intense, written in gorgeous prose. (And kudos have to go to the translator here; she did a phenomenal job. As I understand it, Russian literature is difficult to translate into English.) But I think also that it's helpful to read it in an historical moment; the book is all about transformations, about growing pains, about changes, and considering that it was originally published in Russian in 2007, 16 years after the fall of the USSR, I think that some of that bleeds through the setting. There's a collision between the old ways of doing things and what might be the new ones.Usually I dislike it when people call books "modern classics" because how do you know yet? But I think that this is the kind of book you could read when you're 25 and get certain things from it, and then pick it up again at 45 and get others. It isn't the sort of book you read when you need something quick and light, or if you like plot-heavy fiction, or if you don't like characters who make bad decisions sometimes, or if you dislike your fiction to be emotional, or if you like magic systems with lots of rules. The magic in this one is very mysterious. And also highly philosophical. But if you want fantasy that's going to make you think and feel... I highly recommend this book.
3876731715	Yay, Goodreads! This garbage app just erased my entire review, so I must reenter it. I really wish Goodreads would clean up their software, but I doubt they will.I’m not sure how to rate or review this novel. It’s a very strange book.It’s a flawlessly written tour de force.The authors are Russian emigres now living in the U.S.This volume, a weird fantasy, reminds me of certain other post-USSR science fiction novels, namely Roadside Picnic and Night Watch (Watch #1) in which the scary elements of the story seem to be a thinly disguised version of lives lived in constant fear of the Russian secret police, who can disappear or imprison people for any reason.Although this book shares a certain bleakness with those novels, unlike them it has an ecstatic ending in which the main character decides that only love matters and that she refuses to continue being ruled by fear.The story is about a strange college, The Institute of Special Technologies, which trains its students in a weird type of magic involving mental and physical metamorphosis. This isn’t Hogwarts: far from it. No one does spells or owns magic wands. There are no cute house elves or magical creatures. This is a much darker scenario. And the type of magic being taught at this school is based on very abstract concepts.The students are hand picked and then coerced into attending. There are implied threats to their loved ones if they leave the school, fail exams, or break the rules. They are given no explanations of what the “special technologies” are. The school is in Torpa, a picturesque little Russian town in the middle of nowhere.Alexandra “Sasha” Samokhina, our main character, quickly becomes the best student in her class. Her developement baffles her professors because it’s so far beyond anything they’ve ever seen. So she is tormented by her at times abrasive professors and by her clueless family, who mistrust the school. But Sasha’s love of learning propels her on, although it also isolates her. As I mentioned, a lot of this seems a metaphor for a type of life experience very alien to my own. It’s certainly very different from most fantasy I’ve read.I think I’ll give it a 3.5:4 for the excellent writing about very abstract ideas3 for my level of enjoyment, because the book left me cold in many waysIt wasn’t a favorite, but I have to admire the vision and talent of the authors.I might read the rest of the series, but unfortunately I can’t read Russian and it looks like the subsequent books haven’t yet been translated into English.
4925612184	[abbandonato a pag. 284Non è tanto perché sembra - o magari lo è davvero - incomprensibile, ma perché non succede assolutamente nulla. Danno esercizi di “magia” da eseguire, la protagonista non ne sa fare mezzo, rischia grosso, poi vede la via e sbam diventa la migliore. Così per 284 pagine. E ne avrei altre 200 abbondanti da leggere? No, grazie.]
2545585418	My approximate reaction while reading this book = Hmm, magic school but kind of creepy. Huh. What? What? What? What? What? What? What? Oooh, pretty sentence. What? What? What? What? Ohhhhhh. <3Now. Before I explain what all the above is about, do yourself a favour and throw out all the comparisons to other books cited in the publisher's book descriptions. This is not a Katherine Arden, this is not a Harry Potter, this is not like any book you have probably read before. I MAY only accept a comparison to The Magicians and only insofar that both of these books reject happy-go-lucky-heromaking for darkness and an ambiguous sense of justice.Vita Nostra is cloaked in the trope the protagonist being accepted to a magic school, but that's the trap. This book is not at all that; it is strange. Refreshingly, the setting is an old, Russian technical college where underwear is dried on the radiator in one's dorm and the cafeteria offers things like borsch and apple compote. The entire small town of Torpa, where the institute is located, thinks the students are drug addicts. And to be honest, can you blame them when the kids are a bit twitchy and weird?From the beginning, it becomes clear that this novel is not interested in introducing the reader to a fun, new magical system. Always, there is a prevailing sense of uncanniness and foreboding. Sasha is asked to do tasks that are kind of disturbing and shameful by a man who appears suddenly but explains nothing. Everything is veiled in a threat. Her success at this "thing" depends on being afraid. That never really leaves the book. Really, fear becomes the pivot point for the entire plot. Sasha's journey to learning "magic" is hard. Her classes are gruelling and baffling. She is made to read text over and over that seems little more than a collection of words. And, the reader is kept in the dark about what is really going on as much as Sasha herself. This is so compelling! The reader is put in the same place as Sasha: enveloped in suspense, curious to learn, spun in circles by references to philosophy and texts, searching for a deeper meaning. You are reading and she is reading, both grasping beyond the words on the page. Every time I closed the book, my mind would whirl with thoughts of it, trying to unravel its secrets. (I am still sort of doing that; it won't let go of me.) "You are a phenomenal student. And a phenomenal idiot...Yes, Sasha, as they say, you are a disaster and a gift in one little bottle."This book is a book of ideas and therefore reading it is a mental exercise, although not an unpleasant one. Stay with it, it will reveal itself to you! Besides, the reader gets clues about what kind of "magic" this could be. We know that the teachers have some kind of power over reality or perception; they can slip through time; they can reflow events like accidents towards an individual; they require some kind of overcoming of the self; they have tools like rings and watches and glasses that allow them to peer into a student's mind; their "magic" has some sort causation relationship with the human world—their mistakes and actions can change it physically. But even with those clues I bet you won't be able to figure out the mystery until the text tells you. Like Sasha's exercises, it doesn't make sense until it does. And when the text reveals the meaning, everything else snaps into place in a surprising but beautiful way. Let me tell you, this is a book that just delighted my inner book nerd. I think I almost squealed. The "magic" of this novel really comes from the way the writers personified intangible things. The entire thing is a sensory experience. The imagery is stunning. Sound comes alive. The atmosphere is incredible. I could almost feel the air in Torpa curling around my spine and hanging over my shoulder. I mean, excuse me, but when has anyone ever written this way about silence:"Silence came and stuffed Sasha's ears. It came very close, and was deafening, all-encompassing, ready to pull Sasha inside itself, to envelop and digest. It was revolting and terrifying. Twisting out of its grasp, Sasha tore the headphones off."And this:"Mommy? It's me! Can you hear me?" A very distant voice. As if through a blizzard, something rustled and howled thinly in the receiver. As if from a distant galaxy, as if through a thick layer of water, as if through cotton wool."*swoon* There are many stunning paragraphs like this. *swoon* *swoon* I love this novel's homage to language and text as a thing, text as a character! I didn't even mind that there were no chapter breaks. The text is broken up into chunks and ellipses are parsed out to follow the narrative with intention.The "magic" also happens in that the ordinary moments are used to highlight how odd something is. The banal is a shadow to the strange; it is written around the edges of the main story. Domestic life happens, but somewhere in the background, but it, too, becomes increasingly important. There are some lovely lines about what it means to live an ordinary life."Sasha thought of life as a collection of identical days. To her, existence consisted of days, and each day seemed like a circular ribbon—or better yet, a bike chain, moving evenly over the cogs. Click—another change of speed, days became a little different, but they still followed, still repeated, and that very monotony concealed the meaning of life..." What a strange but somehow perfect metaphor!CharactersThe characters are complex and dark. The relationships between them move molasses-slow and are just as sticky. Actions from the beginning and words unsaid throughout come back to haunt, to intertwine, to bring up problems from the muck back into the plot.Our Sasha is not always emotive, but she has her moments of passion. And the moments when she holds her own are some of the most touching. There is also a surprising discussion about bodies and sexuality, since Sasha is a teenager in the beginning. There is a kind of sinister feeling about the way women's bodies are written on the page. There is an element of force, and was sometimes uncomfortable to read. The women are constantly struggling to reclaim their bodies—whether they are girls of "loose" behaviour or reserved—and they are not always successful at doing it. I don't know, it was interesting to consider. I'm not sure if there is an actual point being made. But the girls becoming women, losing themselves in their new bodies, also alludes to a different kind, a later metamorphosis. "Her body—white, skinny, shaking in the middle of a messy dorm room—was the only entity outside this world. Sparks ran along her skin. Shy little fires like rolling drops. Tiny flashes of lightning. Underneath the skin membrane, in nearly transparent places, she could see her veins, blood vessels, and tendons—a mysterious forest. Her back itched like crazy—something was going on with her spine—it crackled, it was nimble, alive, full of its own existence."The TranslationI read reviews here that criticized the translation as being clunky, but with the exception of a few odd sentences it was on the whole good. I actually think this must have been a gargantuan feat to translate. I can't imagine. The technical language, the mining for references to other texts, the allusions to the all-too-familiar 90s Russian culture (that somehow still hit the North American tone), the philosophical terms, the beautiful turns of phrase...even the punctuation! It is a very technical novel but all of that was very well done! At first, I was a bit put off because the language sounded a bit too Americanized but it worked in the end. Maybe what people are snagging at when they criticize the translation is the style of the novel itself, which is complex and doesn't like plot-driven narrative.I would really call this a sci-fi novel, rather than a fantasy. Especially since it seems to be exploring textbook metaphysics (yup, had to Google that one). Or, a sci-fi that uses fantasy as a metaphor to achieve its aims.Sasha, you are a child who grew up in a beautiful cozy room, but you have no idea what is going on outside its walls. You think the ticktock of the kitchen clock is an inherent attribute of time as a physical phenomenon.The book is probably unlike any other fantasy/sci-fi novel you've read. It does the grunt work of the concept of "being" and of reality to create its own, quite alien reality but one with echoes to our own. I'll be reading the yet-to-be-translated books in this series because I just can't stop myself from finding out what else could happen in this world. The ending, by the way is very ambiguous, which some people are not going to like. There are still so many questions that could have been answered. But I found it quite touching. In the end, the entire text is an act of love—and I love it more for that.
4328993012	✅ Visionario. Assolutamente innovativo e pieno di intuizioni che non ho mai trovato da nessun’altra parte. Geniale e folgorante.✅ Le atmosfere cupe e quel tormento interiore che caratterizzano da sempre i romanzi russi. Qualche volta lo struggimento di Saška mi ha ricordato quello che vivono così spesso i personaggi di Dostoevskij e Tolstoj, e questo non mi è dispiaciuto.✅ Farit. Per quelle poche volte che compare nel romanzo, è un personaggio magnetico e affascinante su cui vorrei sapere di più. Incombe anche quando non c’è in carne e ossa. ✅ Metafisico e filosofico.❌ È assolutamente incomprensibile. Non ho capito nulla fino alla fine, dove si profila qualche spiraglio di chiarezza ma che, almeno a me, ha fatto venire ancora più confusione su quello che realmente succede a Torpa e nell’istituto e su cosa sono le tecniche speciali. Ci sono tantissime domande alle quali ancora non abbiamo ottenuto risposta e io lo trovo frustrante.❌ È spesso ripetitivo e si basa troppo sul non detto, anche se (almeno io) ho avvertito una solida base dietro a ciò che gli autori hanno deciso di mostrare o di nascondere. ❌ Spesso ho avvertito la mancanza di parti descrittive.
3118832008	Do I dare? No. Anything I say will never be enough to justify the sheer brilliance of this story, so I might as well give up.Look up and see the bookshelf tags I added to this book. These are all the good ones I have. In fact, I created a new one, "mind-blown", just for Vita Nostra. The translation is impeccable, I have to thank the translator, Julia Meitov Hersey, for bringing this masterful work of art to the attention of the whole world. If only more people knew about and read Vita Nostra. It doesn't even have 10k ratings. But I'm going to try to amend that, I'm going to recommend this to anyone I know (or I don't know), forever. So yeah, READ THIS.Just go in blind. The less you know about "The Institute", the better.
4060615427	Second reading: so it blew my mind again lol. I will be doing a write up on medium right now; with spoilers and without, as well as a YouTube video on it. So yeah. I love it. This book… blew my mind a little bit. I am very tempted to just reread it again, right now. It’s that good. I imagine there’s a lot to pick up on the second go around.Okay, so this is the story of a young adult, struggling to graduate high school at good enough grades to get into a decent post secondary school. She’s accosted multiple times by this older creepy dude, who has a strange power over her, basically he’s able to remove her agency and compel her to undergo tasks; very much in a hero’s journey sort of way - except far more of a suspenseful, surrealistic, and somewhat horrific bent. This book has got a very unique tone it strikes, I don’t even know what to compare it to. She’s made to go to a school nobody knows about, the universe conspiring to get her there through a series of bizarre incidents and coaxing from the strange guy. At the school things get even more interesting and surreal. We follow her journey at the school as she unravels what is going on, experiences as coming-of-age at the strange institute, and try to navigate social situations - all while taking classes that make her, and the other class members, to feel like they’re being brainwashed and reprogrammed. From the plot alone you might suspect that it’s purely surrealistic horror, but I meant it when I said it strikes an odd tone. There IS loss of agency synonymous with horror, but the book is thematically cohesive despite its weirdness. Perhaps it’s one of the most thematically calibrated pieces I’ve yet to read, actually. The post secondary experience and the internal mechanisms of youth changing, growing, evolving with knowledge and the fruition of the development of their bodies - basically all natural and systemic change that undergoes in the here and now through all learning and life cycle of the human body (especially puberty) - are literalized in the fiction.The fiction would be thoughtful and interesting just in that myopic sense if that were all that was going on. It combines the scientific notions of the body with cerebral concepts on philosophy, and then mixes in magical elements as well. Change, and the potential of every person is the main focal point of the story. Of course, as it relates to Sasha. Her place in the world, in the universe, and the raw potentiality of Sasha nicely counterpoint the horror elements, and, thankfully, explain the wildly strange and problematic teachings the mentors inflict on students. Without spoilers I will say the magic system is so well designed and just blew me away. Everything about this was my jam. That isn’t to say it’s an _easy_ read; though I devoured it quickly. The concepts are illusive and heady. The book is broken up into parts and doesn’t otherwise have chapters, just paragraph breaks for new scenes, making it structurally a bit challenging depending on your reading habits. It could also be troubling and triggering for people. There’s esoteric harm that is certainly abusive to the teenagers, including, if I understood correctly, sexual assault of a young woman when she recounts her story to Sasha. It does make sense, so it’s not just gratuitous shock value crap, but it’s also not easily digestible, and I think that’s why it immediately signals those horror elements from the get go. Still, something to consider.The ending of this book just. I can’t even. So good. This book works at a mythical story, as a critical reaction to academia, to the way society treats youth; but also a meaningful, self actualization of a person coming-of-age, facing off against an innermost obstacle, and hope in the unlikeliest of places (depending on your point of view). It’s so fucking good, y’all.
5264989072	I’m not entirely sure what I think of this book, to be honest. It has the originality and vitality of a work that needs to exist regardless of whether one likes it, and I didn’t always like it. I’ve seen it pitched as “Harry Potter as written by Kafka and set in post-Soviet Ukraine” (or Russia, it’s unclear which), which seems accurate. The setting is without question the best part of the book: it’s vivid and immersive and with all the little details of daily life that clearly come from experience. The vibes of the creepy magic school where nothing is explained and all the students are forced to attend against their will mix with the mundane, profane details of student life, in way that renders it entirely three-dimensional and convincing.That said, I never loved the story. The first 60 pages are especially creepy, involving a strange man appearing in a teenage girl’s life and forcing her to do things that make her uncomfortable, generally involving outdoor nudity in some way, and culminating with forcing her into an obscure provincial college she knows nothing about, derailing her own plans. That coercion and creepiness never quite goes away, though it does wane as the book goes on, as Sasha becomes more assertive and ultimately invested in her studies. As she gradually feels less trapped, the same is true for the reader. Even so, I alternated between reading large chunks at once and being tired of it, and I wouldn’t call any of the characters particularly memorable, though the setting is.Despite all that, the high level of originality and immersion, as well as a compelling and readable style and believable characters, make this a strong choice for those seeking fantasy that breaks the mold and comes from outside the Anglosphere. It also has thematic depth, and probably a lot of allusions that I missed. Not a new personal favorite, but I can see why it is for others.
4860344653	Eu não faço a mínima ideia de como escrever uma resenha pra esse livro, porque ele é um tanto inexplicável. Assim como as personagens, você caminha no escuro durante quase o livro inteiro, porque vamos descobrindo coisas novas a cada página, junto com os personagens. Como os professores da história falam constantemente, eles não explicam o que está acontecendo porque não estamos prontos para saber, só conforme vamos avançando na narrativa e ganhando as ferramentas, nós vamos compreendendo o quanto essa história tem camadas. Eu não acho que seja um livro com vilões e heróis definidos, até porque ele foge daquele padrão narrativo estadunidense (os autores são ucranianos).O que eu sei dizer sobre esse livro: é uma história singular. Nunca li nada parecido, mas me encantou muito. Amei o uso das palavras, fiquei obecada querendo entender o que estava acontecendo e me apaixonei pela história. O final é lindo, inesperado. Foi um livro que me deixou ansiosa, mas de um jeito bom. Quero ler logo as continuações, mas não sei quando a editora pretende publicar - e apesar do segundo estar disponível em inglês, o último só tem em russo ou ucraniano e ainda não sei ler nenhuma das duas línguas hahahaO início foi a parte mais desinteressante (e ainda assim é muito intrigante). É um daqueles que a gente não sabe definir, só sentir! Eu amei demais, recomendo muito, mas é pra ler com a cabeça aberta, esperando um livro que não seja "tradicional", por assim dizer. Adorei!
2712358760	I.... loved this? UTTER mindfuck. Harry Potter, but written by Kafka and edited by Dostoyevsky. If you enjoyed Ursula K Leguin’s The Lathe of Heaven + Max Barry’s Lexicon + the first book in Lev Grossman’s Magicians trilogy, then this one should be on your TBR list.Dark and strange and unputdownable.
5509963565	ever since i finished reading this book i've been trying to figure out what to say to convince others to read it too but i still haven't found the words. anyway please read this
6971185072	"Ruszył ku wyjściu ze stołówki, a Saszka pomyślała, że ma rację. Są rzeczy, których nie da się wytłumaczyć. Czyż nie to właśnie od samego początku wbijali im do głów Portnow i Stierch?"Ależ mnie ta książka przeorała. Poczułam się, jakbym znowu była na studiach. Tam też najczęściej nie rozumiałam nic z tego, co czytam. Ta powieść ma tak niesamowity klimat, że wszystkie te modne dark academie mogą się schować - tu atmosferę można kroić nożem, jest mrocznie, zimno, wykładowcy sieją postrach, człowiek nie rozumie, co studiuje, ale i tak zakuwa dniami i nocami, a czytelnik jest w to wszystko wrzucony razem z główną bohaterką i wie o wszystkim jeszcze mniej niż ona. "Świat jest tekstem. A słowami ludzie."Moje wykształcenie zobowiązuje mnie do tego, żeby ta książka mi się podobała xD Ale nawet i bez tej podstawy, pomysły autorów zrobiły mi sieczkę z mózgu, a czasami kocham to uczucie, więc śledzenie losów Saszy było niesamowitą przygodą. Pomijając już cały koncept jej studiów, który jest absolutnie fantastyczny, podobały mi się też relacje między postaciami. Wątek romantyczny, o ile można to tak określić, jest bardzo nietypowo poprowadzony, ale przez to wydaje się po prostu życiowy i realistyczny, aż chciałoby się ich złapać za ręce, zaprowadzić do siebie i zmusić, żeby wreszcie ze sobą porozmawiali! Nawet jeśli już dawno na to za późno. Podobało mi się też, że główna bohaterka, mimo całej swojej ambicji i talentu do nauki, nie odcina się kompletnie od ludzi i znanego jej świata, mama i znajomi ciągle są gdzieś w tle i pozostają dla niej ważni. Czy zrozumiałam tę książkę? Na pewno nie. But the vibes are immaculate."Wszystkie dziewczyny są szalone. Każda na swój sposób."
2903431396	This is a complex book, and I would never like a book just for complexity sake (quite the contrary, actually) but I liked it because the story simply…flowed, as a reader my comprehension grew along with the main protagonist’s and it is still imperfect but the story makes sense. I feel fulfilled and the book is almost a standalone (Sasha’s subsequent tale can both continue, or be left to the reader’s imagination). This is no easy feat and the story is engrossing though out of my confort zone. I enjoyed this psychological fantasy and I’m looking forward to read the sequel. Sasha would inhale the scent and smile, thinking about the magnificent harmony of world order, about the beauty of logical constructs, and about the golden sparks of chances that appear without warning out of nowhere to highlight, set off, and emphasize the infinite precision and exactitude of the informational depiction of the universe.
3788804895	my brain hurts. in a good way
2613830335	Vita Nostra was first published in Ukraine in 2007, in the original Russian. After garnering prizes and a cult following, this novel by Marina and Sergey Dyachenko is now being published by HarperCollins in an English translation by Julia Meitov Hersey. It has been compared to «The Magicians» by Lev Grossman, who has claimed that Vita Nostra «has become a powerful influence» on his own writing. A Goodreads reviewer describes it as «Harry Potter, were it written by Lev Tolstoy». It’s a helpful analogy, but one which does not really prepare you for the novel’s enthralling weirdness.It starts out like a slice of post-Soviet realism, with Sasha Samokhina, the 16-year old protagonist, vacationing at a rather sordid resort with her (single) mother. Sasha notices that she is being stalked by a stranger, whom she cannot avoid, however hard she tries. Things soon take a turn for the bizarre. When Sasha finally speaks to the stranger, he sets her awkward challenges which border on the abusive, and test her physical and psychological endurance to the limit. The price for failing is high – one near-miss brings about nearly fatal consequences for the persons closest to Sasha. It turns out all these rather disturbing goings-on are a prelude to Sasha being called to join the mysterious «Institute of Special Technologies». Potterheads will be disappointed to learn that this is no Russian Hogwarts. It is situated in the nondescript provincial town of Torpa; its more advanced students seem deranged or crippled; its lecturers are threatening; its curriculum, and particularly the dreaded «Specialty» lecture, seems maddeningly – and pointlessly - difficult. And there’s a clear sense that failure is simply not an option. Throughout the novel, Sasha considers not entering the Institute and, eventually, escaping from there. But can she ever bring herself to do that when it would put her life and her family in mortal danger? The atmosphere of dread never lifts – and it is accentuated by the fact that for most of the book, neither Sasha nor the readers are really aware what the course is all about, what its aims are and what it will all lead to. Like the protagonist, we are kept in the dark and slowly discover (part of ) the truth with her. These gradual revelations makes Vita Nostra eminently readable, despite the fact that its plot is not really spectacular and often built on abstruse concepts. At one level, it can be enjoyed as a coming-of-age or college novel, one in which Sasha Samokhina experiences love and grows into an independent adult. At the same time, the fantastical elements give it an added dimension, making us wonder what the heck is going on at the Institute. By the end of the book, we notice that the novel has prodded us into considering weighty philosophical concepts, such as fate and free will – do we really have choices, or are these set by others, or by our own fears and limitations? This was one of the most mind-boggling, unusual and memorable books read this year – and probably the one with the most striking cover. If I chop off a couple of stars from my rating it is because I found the language used rather awkward – I can’t say whether it’s the translation or a quirk of the original, but I felt that the shifts from colloquial to a more high-flying style were clunky and unconvincing. But this is, ultimately, a novel one reads for its baffling ideas – I recommend it precisely for being so strange.Read more at http://endsoftheword.blogspot.com/201...
4237110266	Vita nostra non somiglia ad alcun romanzo che abbiate letto. Fatta questa doverosa premessa, che mi caverà dall'impaccio di doverlo categorizzare, ne faccio un'altra, soggettiva: è al momento il miglior romanzo che abbia letto nel corso del 2021.È brillante e profondamente disturbante, il tessuto narrativo si squarcia in periodi di abbagliante bellezza e altri di cupa inquietudine, si sfilaccia fino a perdere consistenza, procedendo a tentoni nella foschia, e si affila di nuovo come una freccia scoccata verso il bersaglio, a un ritmo folle e incalzante. È una volta stellata che toglie il fiato, ma allo stesso tempo lascia smarritз e terrorizzatз davanti alla sua indifferente grandezza. È un romanzo di formazione magica che a metà strada incontra la tradizione letteraria russa, traducendosi in un testo vertiginoso e suggestivo, spaccato a metà tra razionalità e allucinazione. È il frutto stregato dell'unione tra fantasy e fantascienza, magia e scienza: è un'orchestra di opposti che giungono inaspettatamente ad armonia e in cui risuonano, incantevoli, riflessioni di natura filosofica e linguistica.Vita nostra presenta alcuni tra i topoi narrativi più classici del bildungsroman magico, riletti in chiave perturbante e inedita: un sapere arcano e pericoloso, una protagonista geniale che si dimostra essere la migliore studentessa della sua classe, una scuola di magia terrificante il cui scopo sembra spezzare lз studentз, insegnanti crudeli nel loro rigore. Addentrarsi in questa storia è come leggere qualcosa di familiare che lentamente muta in forme incomprensibili e angoscianti, mantenendo una surreale bellezza.Vita nostra mi ha scosso e mi ha ammaliato come pochi romanzi sono riusciti a fare: lз coniugз Djačenko hanno bilanciato magistralmente meraviglia e terrore, fascino nei confronti di questa conoscenza dai risvolti terribili e repulsione per i suoi effetti. Serve dire altro? Leggetelo.
3881551893	Beh, questa è stata una lettura fuori di testa, folle.Quando ho letto la trama e ho deciso di approcciarmi a questo libro non mi aspettavo di certo tutto quello che ne sarebbe venuto fuori.Sasha viene obbligata, ricattata, a frequentare una scuola molto… particolare, per essere gentili.Ma le lezioni sono incomprensibili, gli esercizi sono paradossali, richiedono uno sforzo mentale inumano e pare che portino alla follia, letteralmente.In verità questi esercizi cambiano la persona, la trasformano con un processo impossibile e stravolgente in… qualcos’altro. Non in creature fantastiche, tipo licantropi o roba simile, abbandonate tutte le idee sulle creature mistiche perché non parla di queste il libro.Tratta l’assurdo e il paradossale con un linguaggio super specifico, spingendo la protagonista, e anche il lettore, a pensare fuori dagli schemi, a faticare mentalmente. Eppure rimane sempre tutto molto nitido e chiaro, questo grazie a una narrazione fredda e diretta, alienante tanto che, ad esempio, la madre di Sasha viene sempre e solo chiamata così: “Mom”C’è una folle genialità in questo libro, e non c’è molto altro da dire, perché è una di quelle opere che vanno lette, perché le recensioni non sono in grado di trasmettere tutta la follia e la stranezza delle pagine.
