3360487324	me? obsessed with demons and pretty posh boys? noooooo where did you hear that [panicked laugh]*(guys, after reading this, I am literally coming to marry eliot birch, the love of my life) > 4.5 stars
4218984729	(tw: self-harm, child abuse, gore, violence) Library? Book? Devil? I can't hardly passed this one as soon as I knew what the book is about. The Devil Makes Three is the ideal dark academia tale. Of Tess who works in the Jessop library during the summer break, juggling her two jobs, her cello practice and passion, when she meets the headmaster's son, Eliot Birch and unknowingly unleash a book-bound demon from the library's grimoire collection. Plot: The book has a great plot; with it all-thrills, horror, magic, and romance. However, due to the slow build-up and fewer pages, I find it underdeveloped and insipid. The writing style is lyrical; it has well-written premised, just sadly, poorly executed. There are some intense horror scenes, giving you all the eerie feeling that makes you not want to put this down. However, I wished we would be given more scrutiny on the history of the devil, of Eliot's magic and the aftermath of the tragedy seem to be too convenient to the plot. Characters: Tess comes out as a little off-putting at first, with her temper and bitterness, and the reader isn't privy to the circumstances that led to her being at Falk, but once the truth is uncovered, Tess is a character I believed we would find relatable. She is strong but frail, full of conviction but always uncertain. Anyhow, I am still unclear with the real reasons behind her loathing towards the Birch, aside from the fact that they were from the rich, which I find her resentment rather unnecessary seeing how she didn't know them personally. Meanwhile, Eliot precedes his reputation with his introverted, protective self. I adored Eliot's relationship with his mother, their shared knowledge and magic, their love, and the lengths to which he was willing to go to preserve her. Reading about his past, magic, and spells was a real treat for me. Unfortunately, I was disappointed that his magic didn't play a significant role in defeating the devil himself. It was represented as part of himself and was made as part of the main plot but was not utilized enough into resolving the conflict. Like, you have magic Eliot, what's stopping you. The author? (ﾟ´Д｀ﾟ)ﾟNotwithstanding this, the two main protagonists are still likeable. They both had to deal with their family issues and struggles, evoking empathy among readers despite the lack of depth in their characters. The unexpected new POV added to the story also helped to make the book more suspenseful and interesting. Romance: The relationship between Tess and Eliot are innocent and pure. The slow burn is wonderfully calibrated and contained, allowing the reader to invest time in both characters and their respective journeys before building their bond and making us crave for more alongside them. It was a delight to read how slowly they grew closer and discovered how much they meant to each other. The Devil Makes Three is chilling and spooky and would have been a good read for those who enjoyed horror/thriller books. Even though the dark academia portrayal could have been better, but the magnificent closing line will make you hardly forgot about the book. I wished they would actually make a sequel out of this. [2.75/5]
3789200194	I love dark academia more than most things in this life.This is not a very high bar, but still.I even love dark academia enough that I am willing to forgive it many flaws, which, if you look at my average rating / unpopular opinion shelf / rant reviews, it is clear I am not often down to do.In recent years, I've had a harder time getting into young adult fantasy. So while a dark academia / YA fantasy combo isn't my IDEAL book, it does have dark academia involved, which is enough for me to get extremely excited.But alas, to make an accidental reference to a pivotal work by Chinua Achebe...things fall apart.If you are nostalgic for the bygone days of young adult paranormal romance, I would recommend you this book. There's an unnecessarily British boy for our protagonist to fall in love with, with floppy hair and prep-school good looks. There's the rather, well, not like other girls protagonist in question, who is constantly sustaining injuries and never sleeping but just...going on anyway. There is a school setting with precisely 0 oversight or consequences.This isn't to say that this book is anywhere near as unpublishable as its early 2010s ancestors. But there's too much overlap for me to have a good time.Basically, where I wanted dark academia vibes, I got paranormal romance vibes. While much of this takes place in a library, it's over summer break, and the characters' activities are definitively nonacademic in nature. I think so much of dark academia is...vibe. Spooky, scholarly. And this book was entirely vibeless for me.Much like, well...a certain young adult subgenre of yore.Bottom line: Not bad! Just so not what I wanted that it's almost enough to make me rant against my will.---------------pre-reviewthis felt like...a really good second draft.is that mean? follow up question: does that make sense?review to come / 2 stars---------------tbr reviewthe words dark academia have an impact on me that nothing else doesclear ur shit prompt 9: a spooky bookfollow my progress here(thanks to the publisher for the ARC)
6389478265	It took me awhile to get through this one, but I really enjoyed it. It's a slow moving story, but it's filled with dark twists and turns and a rather grim atmosphere.
5333066520	I actually enjoyed the book more than I thought I would. Characters Tess and Eliot meet under very peculiar circumstances. Tess works part time at Jessop library, a job she got to help her afford her education as it was the only way she (half scholarship) and her sister Nat (full scholarship) would be received at Falk.Aunt Mathilde, who's the librarian at Jessop, asks Tess to search for a huge lot of books to be used by Dr. Birch, or so she thought as in the end it's actually Eliot (Dr. Birch's son) who requested them. Books or better said grimoires that Eliot plans to use for a very special magical purpose.How then do Tess and Eliot end up unleashing a Demon? What is it what the Devil wants from Tess? Will she give in to his dark intentions? In spite of Tess's dislike for Eliot (he's Dr. Birch's son), and her reluctance to rely on anyone, it seems the only alternative is to join forces. Will they be able to defeat the evil forces that threaten their lives?All in all, and in spite of the bits of gore, quite an entertaining book.
6297813499	the tesseliot brainrot is still destroying me and it’s been a week
4165173630	This is what happens when you're late to return your library books, kidsThe devil eats you arms.
4242587865	I don’t know whether every person who rated this book 4 stars or more has swallowed ink, but this wasn’t it, chief!It’s been a while since my last enemies to lovers (since I don’t like that trope), but if whatever Eliot and Tess had going on is supposed to be enemies to lovers… I thought enemies actually meant enemies, not characters who develop a dislike for each other because one puts sticky notes with swear words on the other person’s books.This book was marketed as enemies-to-lovers meets dark academia meets ghosts and demons, but woooooo, this book did not deliver! You go, Tess and Eliot, thanks for giving me nothing!Okay, so Eliot and Tess don’t know each other until Tess puts a whole lot of mean and insulting sticky notes on the books Eliot checked out of the campus library Tess works at. She thinks his father, the dean, wants to check them out and plans to remove the notes before he comes to collect them. Little does she know that it’s his good-looking 😊 tall 😊 bookish 😊 but incredibly obnoxious 😊 son who requested them! Obviously, things go awry, Eliot finds the notes, thinks they are addressed to him and is so infuriated by this stubborn 😊 wilful 😊 but strangely pretty??? girl at the checkout!!Y’all, this whole set-up was so melodramatic and felt so forced and how these two are then obviously forced to work together because of the devil that escapes an evil magical book Tess reads from-*eye-roll intensifies*Literally, the stupidest reason I have ever read for positioning two characters at opposite ends only to have them become closer and *open up to each other* all the while slowly realising that the other might not be so obnoxious and annoying after all and… aren’t his/her eyes pretty? You know what, given the fact that this can't even be described as enemies-to-lovers, I'll tag this as haters-to-lovers: so much melodrama only to get the characters to hate each other.Furthermore, this book was also described as a YA crossover/gothic horror debut. Yeah, the YA part I got but the gothic horror? Coraline was literally more spooky than this, and the former is a children’s book. On top of that, the university/library setting was pretty isolated. We learn early on that Tess can see ghosts and that she works at Jessop library, lives on campus and that Eliot is British, but beyond that? Worldbuilding? Non-existent! Eliot and his dying mum are witches but did we get any background info on that? Do other people except Eliot, his mum, and Tess experience/practice magic? Are there secret societies or government departments overseeing magic? Are there schools for children with abilities? We just don’t know.Last but not least, I thought the writing was undercooked and unseasoned. Throughout the book, I had the feeling that the author tried to pull a V. E. Schwab, but hmm, no, that didn’t work. The writing lacked atmosphere and passion. All in all, this wasn’t a book I’d recommend to anyone. No, it wasn’t as bad as Jaws, but even though it’s only been three weeks since I finished reading it, I can neither remember much nor can I think of anything positive to say about this book. If you are looking for a good spooky read that features witches, covens, a murder and a teenage protagonist, may I recommend Sanctuary??
4173475130	Star Rating: —> 4.5 StarsPERFECT SPOOKY (and 'spooky' is putting it ridiculously lightly; More horror than spooky!) FALL READ!!! It seriously chilled me to the BONE! Whew RTC I need a little time to shake this one off, haha my heart is still pounding! 😅100% recommend for possession horror lovers !!!
4131000777	Thank you to the publisher and netgalley for this arc.What the HELL okay this was SO damn good and I loved every second of it holyyyyyyyyyyFirst things first, the atmosphere throughout this whole book is incredible; it’s spiders-crawling-up-your-spine creepy and don’t-look-over-your-shoulder uncomfortable and hairs-standing-on-end chilling. The writing is dark and unsettling and the story centres around an old university library, that leaves your body shivering and spine tingling. It’s full of suspense and ghoulish grins that spread wide and crack at the edges, bloodshot eyes that follow you as you pass by and ink that spreads like a disease across your body.It’s the devil dressed in someone else’s skin, a possession of innocent bystanders and a dusty, foreboding grimoire that whispers in the shadows of your mind.If that doesn’t make you want to read this fantastic book, then allow me to mention that, alongside the eerie storytelling and dark academia, there is a glorious hint of enemies to lovers. Pair wit, light comic relief and banter with an alarmingly alluring demon with a penchant for murder, and you have the perfect book you never knew you needed. Also, that ending? God DAMN.———i got an ARC i am PUMPED
3180005896	This was so good and creepy! Loved both the main characters, and how complex they were. Read it as an audiobook and the narrators were fantastic, too!
3774609778	4.5 starswhat a brilliantly dark and perfectly atmospheric dark academia read! I honestly adored just about every bit of this story. I truly love both of our main characters. Tess is a cellist who feels a lot of things and doesn’t know how to process all those feelings (which is a little trope in characters that I adore). She’s incredibly protective over her sister and ambitious and headstrong. Eliot is troubled little Brit unwilling living in the states who is, *surprise*, also a witch.Together, they accidentally invite none other than the devil into their realm. First of all, their dynamic was absolutely incredible. They had chemistry from the start and their banter made me smile. They also had some hilarious encounters. The author truly took the time to develop their romance which was super important to me. It was very well done and it gave you all the time to deeply care for our protagonists and to watch their feelings grow for each other. One of the strongest parts of this book is the incredibly well depicted atmosphere. It’s dark and eerie and slightly spooky and you feel these things around you as you read. One last thing to add, this is a YA novel that didn’t feel too young, which I can greatly appreciate. This will easily be enjoyed by older and younger readers. I absolutely recommend this to anyone who enjoys dark academia atmospheric spooky reads with a sweet romance. Add this to your tbr’s!!
3720580853	I saw that this book had a dark academia theme and knew I needed to read it. I enjoyed a lot of elements of this book. The characters were well developed, the plot was interesting, and I loved the setting. I felt that the story moved too slowly and didn't keep my attention, but not enough to stop reading it.
4062503118	2.5 starsSometimes it just doesn't work out with your tastes 🤷‍♀️ The devil, grimoires, a dark academia library, and bonds... and yet I had a hard time with it. Concept: ★★★★Pacing: ★★ 1/2Worldbuilding: ★★ Sense of "movement": ★★Tess Matheson works in her elite, private high school's library as a library assistant. Her backstory involves some of the classics—she's poorer than her students, she's a prodigy that got in on talent, and she's fiercely (over)protective of a younger sibling—and her gripes against her fellow students are many. Eliot Birch is one of those rich students that Tess encounters working in the library. But Eliot has some unique qualities hidden away behind his British/posh exterior. His mother is dying from cancer, his father is a Grade A Asshole, and Eliot is secretly studying grimoires and magic books in an attempt to fix all of the above in his life. When Eliot asks Tess to help him access some of the forbidden grimoires in the library's basement, Tess reluctantly agrees. Turns out she should have been a LOT more reluctant, because when they go down there and open a book....Tess accidentally unleashes the devil/a demon bound in ink.Oh boy...Things are going to happen now. My thoughts: The Devil Makes Three was marketed to me in a certain way, and like many other books where this happens, I'm struggling with my opinions on it as a novel because its reality was very different from its sale pitch. Now, a book/author can't really control its publisher's marketing, so the question of expectations vs. reality and whether or not it is a failing of the book when said book fails to deliver on expectations.... Sigh. I get tired thinking about it so let me just disclaimer it here: Part of this rating is due to failed expectations based on the sales pitch of "dark academia, a boy and girl unleash the devil, and an intimate academic library setting with book magic at the core." Because in reality.....that's the entire book right there, with no added nuances. And when you add in chapter POVs that last a maximum of just a few pages per POV chapter (and within each chapter you get a lot of internalized/remembered memories explaining that character's backstory), the story didn't have time to grow or expand into a fully formed being. I wanted more about the devil/demon. I wanted more explanations and descriptions about the larger world and setting. I wanted more of the school fleshed out and the side characters fully realized. I wanted at least one good subplot. I needed less of Tess and Eliot's individual histories displayed via internalized recollections/info-dump that really, truly, didn't matter to me or to the plotline of their present. I don't know folks. A mixed bag all around over here. If you don't mind some of my qualms, I do recommend this one—the concept is great and vibes are immaculate for that type of niche reader. Blog | Instagram
4446049931	This book is for you if… you enjoy young adult novels that are definitely a good fit for younger readers but don't shy away from dark themes.⤐ Additionally.Although I agree that the young adult genre can feel simple and juvenile at times, I'm sometimes pleasantly surprised by the depth of some YA books. Childhood trauma and abandonment, as well as big sibling duties and overcoming assumptions, are valuable lessons to be taken away from The Devil Makes Three. Unfortunately, those themes were unsucccessful in making up for the lack of grip I experienced while reading The Devil Makes Three. Although I felt the darkness that comes with summoning a demon and was creeped out by how well Tori depicted sait demon, I felt some things missing in order to be engrossed completely. The book's therefore definitely suitable for younger readers, in my opinion, simply because I myself in my younger years valued different things in a book then than I do now.It is child's play almost to sympathise with Tess. She's the definition of trauma-born humour. Unreliable parents and an almost careless little sister force her to be the dutiful person in the family - as a teenager. I was instantly able to identify with her independence. My childhood was by no means terrible, but I've realised early on I cannot emotionally rely on my surrounding so I embraced what I can now identify as toxic independence. Tess has made the same experience; If you learn early on that you cannot rely on your family - your parents in particular - you quickly adapt to being on your own (emotionally, physically or other) and being fine - even dependent- on it. I found it endearing to see that Tess still wouldn't let go of her instinct for the good in the world. Her strong moral compass impressed me many times.⤐ What’s happening. ‘Eliot Birch is a fuckmonkey. Eliot Birch’s family tree must be a cactus because everyone on it is a prick. Eliot Birch’s birth certificate is an apology letter from the condom factory.’ spoiler alert : Eliot Birch also turns out to be terrific company - apart form the fact that he attempts to summon a demon in hopes of saving a life. (If you've got at least a fundamental grasp of the supernatural, it's obvious that's never a great idea).____________________3 STARS. Decent read that I have neither strongly positive nor negative feelings about. Some things irked me and thus it does not qualify as exceptional.
4283237772	why do horror books make me cry because i'm "soft for the characters"? i'm genuinely concerned for my own mental health.anyway!! that was INCREDIBLE! even thinking of this book makes me unsettled, the characters were so vivid and...jumped off the page, funnily enough, and thinking of the ending i just...tori bovalino owes us an explanation + lots of apologies.r a t i n g - o v e r v i e w :characters: 4/5writing: 4.5/5vibes: 4.5/5plot: 4/5enjoyment: 4/5OVERALL: 4.25/5content warnings: blood, gore, body horror, decapitation, unintentional self-harm, stabbing, vomit, descriptions of a decaying person, parental illness, explicit violence, child abuse.
4285301168	Highly recommend if you love The Raven Cycle by Maggie Stiefvater and also The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer by Michelle Hoskin, with a sprinkle of dark academia and magic that gave me Harry Potter but with f-bombs vibes! Absolutely loved this. It was refreshing to have a stand alone in this genre but also sad because, while this isn’t a character driven story, I still fell in love with the characters and want more! The male MC was so Gansey coded!! I’ve found a new favorite author and I can’t wait to read her other works.
4164684230	I went into this one without reading the synopsis, and I'm so glad that I did. I ended up enjoying this one a lot and it was much darker than I was anticipating. I genuinely think that Tess Matheson and I would be friends. She literally works in a library, wants to play her cello, wants to protect her sister, and wants to be left alone. Everything else is an afterthought. That is until she meets the insufferable Eliot Birch, who unleashes an ancient demon seeking revenge from one of the many forbidden texts that he requests. Awesome. From the beginning, it was easy to fall in love with Tess as a character. She's jaded, determined, loyal, and sarcastic. I immediately loved her for taking the time to write sticky note insults on each book that Eliot Birch requested from the library, which is a ridiculous amount for the record (douchecanoe might have been my favorite insult). I was a bit apprehensive of the chemistry between Tess and Eliot at first, but the quickly settled in to an agreement and place of respect that I enjoyed. It helps when you have a common enemy. The banter still remained top notch, but I also did enjoy the romantic element as well. What I wasn't expecting from this book was how dark it ends up being when it comes to the witchcraft and accidental demon summoning. I don't want to give anything away, but the author does a fantastic job of writing sharp, biting scenes that really jarr the reader's sense of reality. I'm definitely looking forward to more from this author. Thank you to Recorded Books for providing a review copy. This did not influence my review. All opinions are my own.
4166750361	This was an interesting experience.Let's talk about our two protagonists. Tess is a nice enough protagonist. She is a typical ya heroine who is loyal and brave but, thankfully, isn't stupid. She is smart, well, smarter than Elliot anyway. Elliot was kinda annoying at first but he did grow on me. Unfortunately, the romance between them did not really work. I do not know how to exactly describe it but this was a slow-burn romance that felt rushed at times.I couldn't really understand the worldbuilding at times. But my biggest issue with this book was the pace. The pacing was extremely slow and the book felt very dragged at the beginning. Fortunately, it does pick up the pace once our protagonists find the demonic book.The ending had a final twist, which was rather predictable, that I did end up liking.On a positive note, I liked the dark academia-esque atmosphere of this book. It also has a very dark, almost eerie atmosphere. The writing was also quite good and compelling. This book has its flaws but it was a memorable experience for me and I recommend this book to readers who enjoy dark academia.
4131042934	I rarely read young adult horror, so I was actually rather excited to dive into this one. "The Devil Makes Three" mixes paranormal horror with a dark academia-esque setting which I really liked. In the end, it still just wasn't for me.The writing is solid and the characters are complex and well-written, too. Personally, I thought they read a little older than they are supposed to be, especially Elliot, and in general the setting screamed more college than high school to me. I think the book would have benefitted from ageing up the characters a little for the whole setting to make more sense, but this is a very minor complaint and I still enjoyed it quite a bit. Also, the whole magic thing felt out of place and weirdly tacked on, like the author was trying to write two different books at the same time. I really didn't need it in this particular novel.The biggest issue I had with the novel was the pacing. I gotta admit that I thought about dnf-ing the book multiple times throughout the first about 30% of it because it was sooooo sloooow and nothing really happened. I was incredibly bored despite the book obviously trying to set up its later action by making me care for the characters, by building context for them, by fleshing them out. But it was just a lot of tell don't show and it dragged on and on and on until finally, things started to get moving once Tess and Elliot find the demonic book. The pacing was still too slow after that but at least there were actual things happening, and some of them were very dark and gruesome which I absolutely enjoyed. The characters themselves were alright. I admire the complexity Bovalino gives them but there were also weird disconnects between the pov chapters that kept creeping up. Elliot would, in his own pov chapter, talk at length about how he would never make a move on Tess for several reasons, then in the next chapter, this time Tess' pov, he immediately asks her out. What the characters tell us in their pov chapters stands sometimes in opposition to what they do in the other character's chapters or at least doesn't always fit. The romance felt at the same time rushed and incredibly slow. The side characters were kind of... there, but really, none of them were particularly fleshed out, which in some cases kept me from emotionally engaging with certain parts of the plot. The final twist is rather typical of the horror genre so I predicted it and I'm sure a lot of readers will too, but I still really liked it and it added to the eerie atmosphere of the second part of the book. The devil itself was really well done and I really enjoyed the ink-angle, but it couldn't save the book for me. I'd still recommend it to fans of the ya horror genre.Many thanks to Titan Books and Netgalley for the arc!
4168967620	RTC!
4232220196	This was amazing! I love it, it was fast paced with great characters and I liked the story 😍❤️
4040887680	I had a great time reading this! There’s blood and gore, but also humor and banter. This is dark academia with magic!
3493152388	THIS REVIEW & MORE → Paws and PaperbacksThank you to Page Street Kids for providing me with an ARC through NetGalley!4.5 stars ✨The Devil Makes Three promised dark academia and demons, and I am more than happy to report that it delivered on that promise! The eerie, atmospheric setting, descriptive writing, and compelling characters all come together to form a very impressive and thrilling read.Tess is spending her summer working as the library assistant at her new boarding school. There she meets Eliot, a privileged posh student, and circumstances give her no other option than to allow him access to the off-limits grimoires hidden beneath the library. When the two of them accidentally release a demon, they must work together to save themselves and their loved ones.The aesthetic of The Devil Makes Three is absolutely perfect. Tori Bovalino manages to seamlessly blend elements of contemporary, paranormal, and horror together to create a haunting story that can best be described as dark and creepy. The vivid storytelling makes it exceedingly easy to find yourself transported into the story.The Devil Makes Three will give you chills, in all the right ways. This book is perfect for readers who enjoy dark academia, battling demonic powers, and eerie settings.
4446709629	4.5 Stars. This was a really interesting book. It had some really amazing writing with a eerie and uncomfortable atmosphere. I really loved the vibes of this book and they way the story was told. The audiobook was also super well done. I love it when there are two narrators for both perspectives. I can definitely say this book make me feel unsettled while reading it and the characters themselves were quite interesting to follow. I think what kept me from absolutely loving this book is the ending. I feel like the book could have used a bit more time with the ending of the large conflict because the resolution just felt a bit too easy. But other than that it was a fun time. For sure something I would read again in the future.
3769273054	Wow this was a rollercoaster of a ride. Tess and Elliot were great opposites. They come from different backgrounds but find common ground by the end of the book. It turns out they have a lot more in common than they think which helped build the relationship between them. I enjoyed the banter between the two of them and loved getting to see how sweet Elliot got to be towards Tess. They were a great balance for each other. I loved the setting and the creepy paranormal elements. This book had some dark moments in it which I really enjoyed and they often made me wonder what was real and what wasn't. The pacing was perfect and I'm glad I read this with friends because I was really able to savor it but by the last hour I just couldn't stop listening. There's a little surprise at the end and even though this is a standalone it leaves you hoping for more.I loved the enemies to lovers trope within this dark YA horror. The audio was well developed and I liked that we got duel POV's with a male and female narrator. Thank you to RB Media and NetGalley for the copy.
4200234375	4.5 starsSpectacularly spine chilling and atmospherically creepy, The Devil Makes Three is the dark academia,YA horror you absolutely cannot miss this spooky season! Tess and Eliot discover an ancient book, in a secret tunnel beneath their school library,accidentally releasing a book-bound devil who’ll do absolutely anything to stay free. He’ll murder in the stacks, release the ink from books to do his bidding and he’ll bleed every inch of life from Tess until his freedom is permanent. Forced to work together, Tess and Eliot must find a way to re-trap the devil before he kills everyone they know and love—and with what the devil has in store, school stress doesn’t seem soo bad after all...Can I just say how much I loved this,the writing was practically flawless! I really enjoyed the creepiness of the imagery — the nighttime library and nightmare scenes were incredible. The pace did start a little slow but I found the action really picks up about a third of the way through (after Tess and Eliot find the book.) The writing,action scenes and horror imagery really takes off after that and it certainly doesn’t look back—the use of the ink as both plot device and sentient-like being was absolutely inspiring (and definitely helped with evoking all that creepiness.)I LOVED the chemistry between Tess and Eliot, which was pretty palpable and the romance never felt forced. I loved how it progressed in a very organic/ natural, slow burn kind of way.The ending was definitely action filled, there were a few things I really didn’t see coming but most importantly, it was very satisfying. I must warn that there is alot of gore and blood so if that’s a trigger then it’s probably best to steer clear. If you loved House of Hollow by Krystal Sutherland or are a fan of YA Horror then I’d definitely recommend reading this. Thanks to Titan Books and NetGalley for the e-arc.
4087332348	“Hell,” the devil said, “is failure. It is unbecoming. It is undoing. It is an empty canvas, a song with the notes reversed, until nothing remains.” lifeinlitdark, gripping, romantic, unputdownablea new all time fav, i loved every word.Two chapters in and I was obsessed.This book was exactly what I wanted, exactly what I needed. I was in the mood for a story precisely like this that I cannot put into words how perfect it was.There isn't a single thing I dislike about it .. well it would've been nicer if there was more kissing but *sigh* let's try to ignore that.I love the main characters with undying passion.Tess is so relatable it hurt sometimes and Eliot, gods I can't even explain how much I love him! He's the type of love interest I adore and the romance between them *chef's kiss*.I loved the writing! I love how dark the story was, the whole atmosphere. I straight up could not, would not put it down. And that ending!!! Gods, that ending!! I don't know if I'll ever be okay - I simultaneously love it and loathe it , just— I'm still staring at the wall trying to process it.If you love dark academia, horror elements, tough characters, sweet romance, banter for days and demonic possessions you should definitely pick this up!!➵ 4.5 ⭐
5734079866	** spoiler alert ** I, surprisingly, highly enjoyed this. I was rolling my eyes for the first 90 pages. The circumstances of their meeting was so forced and contrived that I was laughing my head off at how impossible this scenario is. I didn't understand why she actually wrote those post-it-notes on each book she got for him because she was mad that she had to get each book, when she was 'planning to remove it later.' Firstly, she shouldn't have wrote them in the first place if she was tried of doing work because she doubled the amount of it. Secondly, it's just an immature and petty act. Around 1/3 of the way he fell in love with her after a few minutes and I was confused as to why. However, the last 2/3's were highly entertaining. I loved the creepy elements with the demon possessing people and the ink stain elements more than I thought I would. I especially loved the POV of the demon and the way this dealt with self-doubt, self-harm, and abuse. I really did end up rooting for the characters and the entire atmosphere of this book compelled me to read it in a matter of hours. Overall, I definitely want to read more books by Tori Bovalino and I would love for there to be a second book after that cliffhanger.
3952110185	Unfortunately, this wasn't the creepy, dark academia book I'd hoped it would be! The atmosphere wasn't as dark as expected, I couldn't connect to the characters, and some of the things happening didn't make sense. There was no chemistry between the 2 main characters, so even the romance part felt rather out of place. I really enjoyed the beginning and saw the potential, but in the end the story just didn't work for me.
3183105174	I loved this book VERY MUCH
4404395456	3.5 ✨this was good…! there were just quite a few things that bugged me and means i just cant give it a 4 🤷🏻‍♀️
3614539547	*siiiiiggggggggghhhhhhhh*will I be able to get through this review without sounding like a whiny bitch? let’s seethis was just not what I wanted it to be. I thought we were going to get a tag team with the devil and it just ended up being a slow, boring threat of possession. maybe that’s my fault for not reading the synopsis. but okay, so it wasn’t what I thought, can’t judge the book for that so let’s examine it for what it is. I think this is a pretty good eerie, YA “horror” read. most of the book I was contemplating whether all of this was in our MC’s mind or not which made for some interesting visuals. it’s just very, very slow. we only see the “devil” a handful of times in the story and that to me is misleading considering the title. I wanted a lot more of the mythos to this book demon and it was all explained away in one paragraph in the most boring way possible. it all wrapped up so easily. there was so much build up for zero pay off. our two MCs were fine. I really liked the use of modern witchcraft with elliot. tess’s lack of emotional vulnerability was relatable. but nothing to ride home about. yet another average read for me. wasted potential.
4356028260	2.25/5 StarsThis book just wasn't my cup of tea. I must admit I was just expecting something different. Most of the novel is more about creating suspense and fear in the two main characters than showing the actual thing that's scaring them, which is the devil itself. I believe that the setting was cool though, the book mainly takes place in a library and it definitely offered some interesting opportunities in terms of plot.The chemistry between Tess and Eliot was pretty bland and it didn't really work for me.In conclusion I was expecting something better and I was a bit let down.
5026685560	2.5 ⭐️There was nothing wrong with this book, but there was also nothing that I cared for in this book. It was mild and I was bored, but I imagine it would be enjoyable for those who love young YA.
4224145765	This book is dark academia.A dark library with secret rooms... grimoires bleeding ink... dripping candles and demonic possession and murder, oh my.
4216937927	I've lost count of how often I grabbed this book, planning on making it my next read, and on how often I put it back and picked another book instead. This book sounded really like my thing, like something I would like, but for some reason there were always other books grabbing my attention and pulling me away from this one. However, since I officially think I have way too many unread book box books I'm gonna try and read some of them soonish. Starting with this one.The atmosphere of this book was absolutely and totally amazing! I loved the library, filled with magical books and other dark secrets. I loved how spooky everything was, how hard it was to determine what was real and what wasn't and what was happening in the heads and dreams of the characters and what was truly dangerous. I won't get any nightmares, even though the book was gruesome at times, but I really enjoyed how dark the author dared to go.Even though we don't get to see much of the rest of the school, it's a summer holiday and although our hero is following some summer classes they are not really important and therefore not described or shown, I did get the college feeling and could have spent way more pages in this library. At times I would have loved a more detailed description of the nooks and hidden places, but who knows what dangers might be lurking there.I also quite liked the characters in this story! Both of them are going through a hard time, dealing with issues no-one their age should have to deal with. I liked how they kept on fighting, kept on trying, kept on hoping. And even though our hero had some magic in his blood, his issues were quite mundane and I'm afraid also quite common. I'm not entirely sure about the romance between them, but I do believe that for now they are the person the other needs!
3748641319	4.5 stars rounded upDemons? Magic? Body horror? Sign. Me. Up. The Devil Makes Three perfectly aligns pace with atmosphere. The slow build of the creepy, look over your shoulder, spooky atmosphere is placed perfectly within a constant pace of action and scares. It’s unsettling and you never know where our main characters, Tess and Eliot, are going to find themselves next. My only hiccup is this feels a little insta-lovey, because it really didn’t seem like much time had passed, but that’s probably just me (and well I guess when you go through something so intense with someone that does bond you at least a little). Basically, The Devil Makes Three gives you the devil in disguise with some light gore and body horror alongside a little bit of magic, some romantic enemies to lovers banter and says follow me into the dark, everything will be fine (it won’t but you’ll have fun anyway)ARC provided by the publishers through Net Galley for an honest review
3967226011	Jessop English library is home to some very dark and dangerous grimoires. When librarian assistant Tess Matheson finds herself with no other option but to grant posh boy Eliot Birch access to the most restricted grimoires, they inadvertently unleash an imprisoned demon who will do anything to remain free, like promise unlimited power and whatever one’s heart desires, otherwise he’ll kill everyone they love and consume their souls. The Devil Makes Three is an extraordinary gothic and demonic debut casting the perfect blend of the contemporary, horror and fantasy genres. I was immediately drawn in with author’s writing style; it was inviting and easy to read, offering humour, emotional depth and intrigue within the first few chapters, which carried on throughout until the very end. How to describe this absolute triumph? It’s like House of Hollow meets Ninth House. The Mummy meets It Follows. It’s the darker and scarier cousin of Sorcery of Thorns. Put a little of all of those together (a whole lot of awesomeness) and we get The Devil Makes Three. This had terrific characterisation. I really enjoyed alternating between Tess and Eliot’s perspectives, making it easy to empathise with both and to see their differences and similarities too.Tess has sacrificed pursuing a musical career to deliver the best possible future for her little sister, and continues shouldering so much to keep them both in school. She’s had to be strong to survive, and so she struggles to take her armour off, appearing standoffish, but truthfully she’s one tough cookie with a soft heart. Meanwhile Eliot is trying to find a grimoire with a spell capable of preventing death or resurrecting the dead, in a bid to save his dying mother. His heartache and desperation seeped out the pages, made all the worse by his gentle nature, his strained relationship with his father and then the troubles he and Tess get into.For the most part, the story takes place in the school library where Tess works. I thoroughly loved how enveloping the setting was even when the plot turned terrifying. The carts of books and isles upon isles of shelves was so comforting to imagine, then an office full of occult artefacts and volumes and a shadowy moonlight library was equally beguiling. Combine these with creaky doors, dark mysterious tombs, plaguing nightmares and lots of blood… It had me nervous to look over my shoulder in my pitch black bedroom at 2am! I had a cold terror go down my spine and through my stomach toward the climax because it was off the scales creepy! The Devil Makes Three is one of my favourite reads this year. It blew me away and I cannot champion this enough. Well done to Tori Bovalino for an outstanding debut. Incredible, incredible, incredible! I’m excited beyond words for whatever else Bovalino has brewing. If you love dark academia and loved Ninth House by Leigh Bardugo, Sorcery of Thorns by Margaret Rogerson, House of Hollow by Krystal Sutherland or House of Salt and Sorrows by Erin A. Craig, then add this to your TBR and come cheerlead over this delightfully menacing book with me!Thank you kindly to Titan Books and Netgalley for an e-ARC of this book in exchange for this honest review.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
4199387854	Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley for an AudioARC in exchange for an honest review.The Devil Makes Three is a lush, dark tale about messing with forces we do not understand. Tess, a scholarship student to a fancy boarding school, is just trying to keep her and her sister enrolled in hopes of avoiding her parents failed business and financial woes. She works at the school library helping her Aunt with request from students and faculty. When a large request comes in for books about the occult and witchcraft, she does her best to find the books requested in the stacks....even those left under lock and key. Eliot, the student who requested these books, is the son of the school headmaster. He is using that fact to request a larger number of books than normally allowed to research into the magic he inherited from his mother. When these two read a book that never should have been read, a sinister force is released. Will they give in to it's whispers? Or will they just be another page in it's book?I truly enjoyed this story! It's a great standalone, the kind you go looking for when you need to break up the series' you have picked out. Each character has motivation for their choices and actions, all which make absolute sense to me as an adult. These aren't lovesick children who want to charm the hottie in math class, Tess and Eliot are mature (almost too mature) semi-adults. The relationship Eliot has with his father is an absolute toxic mess, but it's refreshing to see this kind of relationship in young adult books. Most times the parents are their best friends or have stepped out completely, but Eliot finds himself in a situation where he would have been better off if that had been the case. While this could make some readers uncomfortable, I think it could really help those going through similar situations.Overall, 4 stars from me. The pacing lost it's footing at times, but it didn't make it any less of a fun ride. I recommend this title for those 14+ as it does have some mature content
4223605961	3,5🌟
4253864377	I honestly think ever fan of dark academia should read this book, it was so good!!I loved the complexity of Tess and Eliot, their slow building relationship felt so real and raw, their life struggles were so relatable, it really made me love and care for themThe plot too was incredible, I’m a sucker for books about magical libraries/books and Tori made a really great job in creating this world that felt so creepy and addicting. The devil makes three is a deliciously dark and perfect read for fall, I’m really glad I decided to read it now.
4159526578	I really enjoyed this one! I had been wary of it because of the cover (not sure why) and because it sounded like it would incorporate some horror elements. While it did, I actually loved these elements. They fit so well with the dark academia vibes, creating a masterpiece. I think my favorite thing about this was definitely the plot. The symbolism of the title was immaculate, and I loved how it played into the book. Especially when the devil started showing up. I was addicted, and couldn't put this down. From his ink-demons to the hallucinations, I never knew what was coming next. I also really liked both of our characters. While I didn't ship them romantically, I did love their friendship. It was even better because it started off so rocky. It never lost its charm, and I gladly would've read more about these two. I think my one complaint has to be the lack of worldbuilding. We know this is urban fantasy, but I did have some questions. How prevalent is magic in this world? Eliot's mother's coven is mentioned several times, but that's all we're given. It's a small complaint, but i definitely would've appreciated it being explored. If you're a fan of The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue, I'd definitely recommend this one! Even though the plots only shared one or two similarities, they had the same type of vibes. I really enjoyed this! Thanks to Turn the Page Tours for providing a free copy!
4395494000	Okay, so I'm really in between giving it 4 and 5 stars. Maybe that means it's a solid 4.5*In the beginning I had a little bit of trouble getting into the story. That is on me, not this book. The last few months I noticed I need a lot of things happening in a story to keep me reading it. But, I had a feeling I would grow to love it more if I kept reading it because it showed promise, and I did.The suspense rose and so did the gore :') It really is quite a horrorstory, but one I can 'stomache'. I do have a vivid imagination so I think some people could read from my face the kind of scenes I was reading at times... :)I loved Tess and Eliot, their backgroundstories, their personalities and how they worked together. And then there was that last sentence.. There is no part 2 coming, is there?!
4227595731	"The Devil Makes Three" is a book about discovering the forbidden. Tess is working in the school library over summertime so that she could afford to pay for her and her sister's education. Due to a regrettable mistake she meets with Elliot, a student who has decided to start researching witchcraft for his thesis. Tess helps the charming young man to get some books he needs, which turns out to be the start of the madness that soon awaits them. I loved this book for its on-point descriptions and dark academia vibes. However, the characters lacked somewhat depth in their relations towards their families. The family topic got covered, but could have been described more. I also liked the weird kind of gore in this book, however it was extremely illogical and untrustworthy. I recommend this book, if you're into dark academia vibes, after-hours library sessions and are prepared for some unlikely gore.
4138125794	Thank you so much to Titan Books for sending me a copy of this book, via NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review! Tess is working at her school library when she meets Eliot Birch. She immediately dislikes him as just another one of the rich boys, with the headmaster as a father to top it off. She hopes she doesn’t see much of him at all. But when she feels pressured into taking Eliot into a forbidden part of the library, they stumble across an ancient book and accidentally unless a devil.Eliot doesn’t want to be at school in the US. He wants to be at home in the UK, where his mother is dying. Both Eliot and his mother possess magic, but nothing Eliot can do seems to be the answer to saving her. With his father intent on keeping him away from her, he intends to find a way to make her healthy again.As the Devil they’ve unleashed infiltrates their lives in terrifying ways, they’ll need to figure out how to undo what has been done.This book was actually quite terrifying and I found myself trying my hardest NOT to picture half the scenes too clearly in my mind, so I still had some hope of sleeping again. Although the story took place in a modern setting, the language used by the devil gave the book quite a gothic feel. There was this strange mix of straight up horror scenes, alongside flowery, romantic writing. I’m not a big fan of the flowery romance stuff and it would have worked as a general horror book without it for me, but somehow it came together in a way I still appreciated.I know from the synopsis, some readers might think they’re getting another Sorcery of Thorns here, but I found The Devil Makes Three to be far more of a horror novel, even with the magical aspects. I am enjoying thriller and horror much more than fantasy right now (although witches are never unwelcome in a book for me!) so I really enjoyed this one!
4977383943	This was a good book in premise, but I'm not sure it delivered. There were moments were I was a bit confused about character narration and the backstory explanations didn't feel wholly convincing to me, and several plot elements felt contrived. It was a fun buddy read with my friend Trishla though!
6438223459	Between 3-4*I'll be sharing my review on May 22, 2024 here: https://youtu.be/6QhdsDd_vVg
5890784775	literally nobody gives a flying fuck over the devil's past and "humanity", nor am i buying that tess would feel so much for that useless fucker. overall plot was pretty good, but the ending was kinda rushed, especially after all that build-up, and AGAIN, WHO CARES FOR THE FUCKING DEVIL.
4718309492	Elliot is secretly studying magic to cure his mother that's dying of cancer. He meets Tess that works at the school library, and in search of books that might help him in his quest, they find a book hidden in a secret tunnel and inadvertently set the devil free that uses books' ink to scare and manipulate the characters.I didn't feel exactly scared with this book, but I understand that some may feel that way because of how well Tori Bovalino sets the mood describing the eerie scenes.
4142391355	I started reading and thought, oh, this is going to get quite mushy with lurve. I mean, we had the girl who ends up in a privileged environment whilst being the odd one and financially broke one, and we have the (seemingly) popular guy who’s hawt and cute and digs a library-girl. So, yes, there’s the library setting… for some of us, oh so very romantic, the ultimate dreamy place to be for all sorts of shenanigans…And you know, it kind of sets the trope bells ringing…Alas…This title isn’t at all the weird and clumsy hormonal teenage romp with some knife wielding weirdo chasing for blood. Tess is an awesome young female character. She has had to brush up her act and work like a warhorse to support herself and her younger sister. She just gets on with things and I liked that. So, yes, Tess is a bit of a hardass and Ice Queen but also funny, resilient and likeable.Spotlight on Eliot! … Eliot is…a…ha, suck it, I won’t tell you, because that would be a spoiler. Trust me when I say that the blurb doesn’t cover the HALF of it! What I can say, is that Eliot is also likeable. Not at all a bully that has ‘redeeming qualities’ nor an overly confident, ‘hides pain by being macho’ kind of dude. He’s smart and caring and no BS. A joy to read.But then, there’s three. The Devil. And, you may ask, well, how the devil did THE Devil get to be freed by our 2 sensible, very likeable characters and HOW in Hell’s Bells are the 2 young ones going to defeat an ancient evil, and oh my god, who’s going to die????Yeah, well, other than the blurb I really shouldn’t drop all the secrets this book carries. I was positively surprised by the turn of events. You know the way cats go all mega-pupils when they see something they want to go at? Yeah, I had those eyes as I got hooked into this fast paced story. I wanted more, more, more!So, anyway… This book is the epitome of outstanding YA Horror. We have the young adults, we have the questionable parenting by all sides, we have the love because jesus christ almighty, a young one simply does not exist without falling in love, and as for the horror- well, there’s plenty! In fact, and I am reluctantly admitting this, I got spooked out. I was reading late into the night and I started feeling particularily creeped at some stage – and that NEVER happens to me – so.. I actually stopped reading, cuddled my kid close and went to sleep. The fact I got creeped out had nothing to do with mention of blood or whatever monstrosity you can conjure up, no. It was just that a particular scene got so eerie and the author did a hell of a good job and cripping me. That’s a win, if I ever saw one.And, just because I have been skirting around the topic – I mean… I can’t really tell you due to spoilers… but, there’s so much more to the book than the horror element. The characters have been perfectly inflated from one dimensional dumb-bells looking to get killed in a library to three dimensional human beings on paper with serious problems in their lives. And god damnit, the Devil is all just a cherry on top of an already steaming pile of crap.Yeah, so.. I enjoyed this book. It’s super. It’s entertaining, it’s fun. I could not put it down and even though stuff happens and some folk die, I finished this title with a great sense of satisfaction. Time well spent!
4164773201	CWs: gore, body horror, (view spoiler)[self-harm, graphic descriptions of mutilation and decapitation (hide spoiler)]It's really interesting having just read this book without knowing much about it other than it has something to do with the devil, because I think it left me room to enjoy it more than if someone had told me to expect enemies to lovers (it really isn't), or if I'd been more familiar with dark academia, because I don't think that's quite it either. I'm glad though, because I actually really enjoyed it.This is pretty dark for YA, and I definitely recommend looking into the content warnings before deciding to pick it up. It gave me very solid horror movie vibes; the author's writing is fantastic, and that means I could vividly imagine the horrors she was describing. I definitely flinched a few times.I also think the way she writes characters is really good. Tess and Eliot are both dealing with a lot in their lives, making them come off as more mature than a normal teenager probably would, but that felt right in context. Tess has taken responsibility for her younger sister as a caretaker, juggling school and several part-time jobs, and that necessitates a certain level of maturity. Eliot is dealing with separated parents and a father that seems to be maliciously keeping him away from his terminally-ill mother. But they aren't just two unfortunate, tortured teenagers; they have flaws, they're very human, and I believed the connection between them. Yes, the romance is probably still a bit fast (it's hard to say how much time passes in the book), but I didn't mind it too much. I really enjoyed the side characters too; the friendship between Tess and Anna was heartwarming, and I liked Nat, Tess's little sister, quite a bit as well.There are a few things that stop me from giving this book a full five stars. We're told on the first page that Tess can see ghosts, and this sets up an expectation that this is somehow important to the plot. It never is, and I'm not sure why it was included at all.The first interactions between Eliot and Tess are weird and potentially trying to set up a very short-lived enemies to lovers situation. Instead of sincerely apologizing when she was clearly in the wrong, Tess tries to blame Eliot when he confronts her, and it just didn't make sense for her to react that way. Last but not least, the ending, which was confusing. I still don't really understand what happened and what the consequences could be.
3710015964	A book set in a library? Yes, please. Oh, you want to add in magic? Again, yes please. And make it about a boarding school? I'm in.Except... it did not feel like a boarding school library. Tess' reasons for moving her and her sister Nat to a school on the other side of the state, giving up her scholarship to an arts school where she can play cello, are understandable. As a second semester junior, it's understandable she finds it difficult to fit in, particularly since she has to work. And this was my first WTF moment: she's a high school junior working two jobs? living in a dorm that is essentially an apartment building, with minimal supervision? My second was when I read that the library in question has closed stacks? And those stacks include grimoires? That students could access without a Giles-figure to watch out for them? Nope. This reads more like a college experience. I could have bought the experience more if Nat had been enrolled in a Lab School attached to the college Tess attends. Not buying the world in which this is set, however, didn't lessen my enjoyment of the ink demon and its attempts to take over Tess' life. Or of Eliot Hack's evolution from snotty British version of any 80s teen movie character played by James Spader to an updated version of Narnia's Digory, trying to save his mother by any means possible. His fraught relationship with his father and the new girlfriend also changes over the book and his snottiness is mitigated by the knowledge of what his backstory/present life includes. Unfortunately, this also suffers from pacing issues and plot points where there could have been more, but may have been edited out.eARC provided by publisher via Netgalley.
3967894345	** spoiler alert ** Uh, this book was not only incredibly slow but incredibly confusing. It takes nearly 40% of the book to even get to the start spooky moments which, for the most part, aren't even all that spooky and somehow it STILL drags. The two main characters basically lie down in a park for a romantic chat at what is supposed to be the lead up to the peak of the action? That's how slow it is. So much of the plot....is confusing to me? Why does this school randomly have a ton of grimores? It's a *high school*? The devil is a demon but wait he's a boy but wait he's ink? Giving the Monster of this story his own pov chapters really felt like a mistake to me. He felt....goofy. I wish people would realize that you can write evil as simply just being evil? Like I'm still not fully sure what was even up with the devil the entire time? Eliot having magic was....mostly pointless. Natalie dying only to be brought back to life was pointless because the entire book it implies that Eliot can't and shouldn't do that? If he can literally bring someone back from the dead, how is healing someone beyond his reach??? (Tess is supposed to care about Natalie so much, almost like a parent but it never occurs to her that the devil would go after her little sister at all???) The will they, won't they part of the romance was so drawn out. Honestly Tess is pretty rude to Eliot for most of the book when all he is is unfortunately the son of the mean rich head of the school. There was a whole lot of monologing about how they "couldn't" be together without any clear explanation why not?? Overall this really didn't live up to the hype of a dark academia thriller. I'm pretty bummed.
4166716981	What a brilliant and gripping dark academia novel! I went into this book not knowing what I was going to expect but I can safely say this book surprised me. I adored the characters in this book in particular I loved Tess as a character. She is headstrong, sarcastic and very driven. She is super protective of her little sister and spends most of her free moments playing her cello. She was content at spending most of her time alone until she runs into Eliot Birch, a young man from Britain who has a fascination for magic and witchcraft. Eliot was a great character as well, one of the things I loved about him was how much he did care about people and wanted to help them. The dynamic between Eliot & Tess was very well developed and brilliantly written. The romance was set up wonderfully and it didnt feel fast or slow at all. It was very believably and almost felt realistic. The banter between them was very good and had several funny lines too. The atmosphere was one of the high points of this book, it had a great dark and creepy vibe surrounding it. It was a perfect dark academia read! While it is a YA novel, it didnt feel young. It felt like something people of all ages could pick up and read and enjoy it. I greatly appreciate that aspect of this book most of all. I highly recommend this if you ever need a good dark academia read or a creepy read, pick this one up you won't regret it!
4266918758	The last book I reviewed was hella negative, so I need to review a book I really liked to add balance back into my life. I loved this! A low/urban fantasy with a good premise, characters I really liked, and a good amount of "creepy" Dark Academia vibes for a good October read. 4/5 stars, would read again. The author has this goldilocks Just Right mix of having enough "world building" (for lack of a better term, it takes place in the real world but with elements of magic) and information to adequately establish the magic in the world without overwhelming the book with infodumps or heavy explanations, which could have been too much given the length of the book. Everything just felt pretty well balanced overall.The only gripe I have with TDMT is that the characters are in high school and it's yet another book where everything would make way more sense if they were just a few years older and in college. Literally change nothing else, just swap the words High School for College and things get just that much more believable. That's a small thing though and really doesn't impact the overall rating.((on a personal note, it's fun to read books that feel local. Not only did I go to school in the same city this book takes place in, but one of our two main characters lives on the same street I lived on, so I spent a lot of the book being excited about the locations.))
4201856545	i don't hate it, but i also don't love it. this is a me-problem because this book is out of my usual genre and i don't really like horror. i guess it's a good horror book tho ? it's certainly eerie and i got the creeps a lot. i skimmed some parts because i was both bored and scared. the characters are alright and there's some attempt at complexity, but i was not really emotionally attached to them. the pacing was off for me and i only got through this with the help of the read aloud feature on my phone. i'm confused with the worldbuilding because Tessa doesn't believe in magic (it's said in the first part) but she's in a library full of grimoires? like how can you be around numerous books about magic and not believe in them...? also we don't really know the prevalence of magic here, only a mention of a coven but that's it. seeing as the book is not really focused on the fantasy aspect and the magic is only used as a plot device anyway, i can overlook this detail. i just feel like this story moved too slowly for me to keep my attention, but not enough to stop reading it entirely.it's not bad but it's also not good; it could definitely be executed better. if you're a fan of horror set in the library, this one's for you!
3776374654	Thank you to Macmillan for providing me an early copy to review!You dark academia hoes are gonna love this - spooky happenings in the fancy library of an elite school? the literal devil? i meanThe middle of this was absolute perfection and everything I had hoped it would be - a little slow in the beginning and the end was absolutely wild - but I really liked the two protagonists Tess and Eliot and appreciated the dual perspective narrative. The book-based premise of the devil's workings isn't really something I've seen before, and it lent itself to some cool imagery and a lot of trickery which was my favourite part. Books about love stories with the devil/a demon seem really popular rn, but this one definitely stood out to me. Bovalino does a great job of setting up the way the devil intrudes Tess and Eliot's lives, isolating them from the rest of the school but also each other.I think if you liked The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue, or if you're someone like me who liked Schwab's premise but was hoping for something with a bit more punch and faster-paced, you'd really like this book! Also would highly recommend House of Hollow if this seems interesting to you!CW: cutting (magical rites but also self harm), gore (including graphic description of decapitation)
4227730737	I know this was technically almost a horror book but the romance arc made me feel more feelings than the last real romances I read. Whatever THAT says about me..
4946455030	I wasn’t expecting the romance, but it was very welcome. That ending. Hehehehe.*2023 re-read. This was perfect after Divine Rivals. I needed that.
5243828664	First book finished in 2023 and I'm so happy it's extremely good 😭💖 Will write a full review soon!
3183058925	RTC closer to release date BUT THIS IS V V GOOD DEMON CONTENT and appeals to all those delicious dark academia vibes. >:)
5172227085	Tess Leben hat eine Kehrtwende gemacht, als ihr Vater die Familie Bankrott machte. Seitdem hat sie die Verantwortung für ihre kleine Schwester übernommen und ist gezwungen, ihre eigenen Träume auf Eis zu legen, um sie zu beschützen. Eliot dagegen hat eine reiche Familie, seine Mutter liegt jedoch im Sterben und sein Vater hält das Geld für ihre Pflege über seinen Kopf, um ihn in Amerika zu halten.Als sich die beiden in der Schulbibliothek treffen, haben sie wenig Sympathie füreinander. Doch als sie versehentlich den Teufel befreien und dieser beginnt, Menschen zu töten, sind sie gezwungen, zusammenzuarbeiten.„The Devil Makes Three“ wurde als YA Dark Academia-Roman vermarktet. Tatsächlich würde ich dieses Buch jedoch deutlich stärker im Horrorbereich sehen. Insbesondere der Gore-Anteil war hier ziemlich hoch. Es gab zu Beginn zwar eine Inhaltswarnung, diese bezog sich aber mehr auf die mentalen Dinge, die die Charaktere durchmachen müssen und weniger auf die sehr grafischen Gore Inhalte. Meiner Meinung nach hätte dies deutlich besser kommuniziert werden müssen.Ich muss ehrlich sagen, dass die ersten 2/3 dieses Buches für mich absolut perfekt waren. Ich habe dieses Buch geliebt und war der Meinung, hier ein ganz klares Jahreshighlight gefunden zu haben. Insbesondere die Hauptcharaktere haben mich absolut begeistern können.Sowohl Tess als auch Eliot bringen ihre eigenen Probleme mit. Tess‘ Eltern konnten nicht mit Finanzen umgehen und haben so die Zukunft ihrer Kinder in massive Gefahr gebracht. Sie selbst gibt es auf, auf eine Musikschule zu gehen, um ihre Träume als Cellistin verfolgen zu können, damit ihre Schwester eine Chance hat, auf einer guten Schule aufgenommen zu werden. Neben zwei Jobs, Schulaufgaben und ihrer Schwester bleibt ihr nun wenig Zeit und vor allem Energie, ihr Instrument zu spielen.Eliot dagegen sieht seit Jahren dabei zu, wie seine Mutter langsam stirbt und nichts was er tut, nicht einmal seine Magie, kann sie retten. Sein Vater bezahlt ihre teure Behandlung und die Pflege, zwingt Eliot dafür aber, seine Mutter in Großbritannien zurückzulassen und bei ihm in Amerika zu leben.Beide Charaktere gehen sehr unterschiedlich mit ihren Problemen um und durchbrechen dabei auch subtil Genderstereotype, denn während Eliot eher weich und emotional ist, umgibt sich Tess mit einer undurchdringlichen Mauer. Mich hat dieser gesamte Aspekt absolut beeindruckt und mitgenommen und ich wollte die ganze Zeit, dass die beiden ein glückliches Ende haben würden.Die Geschichte ist zunächst auch sehr interessant. Als die beiden versehentlich ein Wesen freilassen, das sehr lange in der Bibliothek gefangen war, müssen sie um ihr Leben fürchten. Es war spannend, dies zu lesen und ich habe mitgefiebert. Der unglaublich schöne Schreibstil hat hier auch einiges zu beigetragen.Leider wurde dann im letzten Drittel gefühlt alles über Bord geworfen, was dieses Buch interessant gemacht hat. Statt den Problemen der Charaktere ging es plötzlich nur noch um Gore. Es gab etwa eine sehr grafische Beschreibung von einer verwesenden Leiche und ähnliches. Und darüber wurden alle weiteren Themen des Buches einfach komplett vergessen. Ich hatte das Gefühl, plötzlich ein komplett anderes Buch zu lesen!Auch wenn das Ende wieder gut war und mich ein wenig versöhnen konnte, bin ich einfach ziemlich enttäuscht von dieser plötzlichen Änderung innerhalb der Geschichte. Generell würde ich das Buch dennoch empfehlen, aber nur Menschen, die derart grafische Beschreibungen in Ordnung finden. Auch wenn ich persönlich keine Probleme damit hatte, hat mich die falsche Vermarktung des Buches und die fehlende Kommunikation über die Inhaltswarnung doch ziemlich geärgert.Fazit:„The Devil Makes Three“ ist ein überzeugender Horror-Roman, mit tollen Charakteren und einer spannenden Geschichte. Leider gibt es im letzten Drittel eine starke tonale Änderung und eine Menge Gore, die so im Vorfeld nicht kommuniziert wurde.
3618948609	This was one of my most anticipated releases this year, and it lived up. I overall haven’t read a lot of horror nor dark academia, though I have extremely enjoyed what I’ve read of either genre. This book is just another to add to the list of reasons I should explore those genres further!I was at first a bit put off by how young the main characters were (high schoolers, junior and senior), as for some reason I expected college aged characters, but it ended up working really well still. The setting itself still felt college-esque due to it being a fancy high school where students usually stay on campus, and since it was summer, the main characters weren’t dragged down by high school class schedules. The school itself was also so far removed from normal high schools, that it didn’t even feel like a high school story at all. The library setting is what really set the book apart, however, and I loved how the uniqueness of this set up (closed stacks only accessed by people working at the library) played such a large role in the horror that was to come. It was dark, quiet, and terrifying at moments, and I loved it.The monster/demon/devil didn’t fully click with me at first, as while I found the scenes and dreams he was in terrifying, the missing background and reasoning for his malevolent acts made it hard for me to get fully invested. However, once this story started unraveling more and more, I was hooked. What really sold this story to me overall, and made me rate it 5 stars in the end, had to be the ending itself. I really love how this story was wrapped up, both in terms of this plot/monster and for the characters themselves. The characters were a consistent favorite of mine, however. I loved them quickly, and throughout the whole book this love remained. Even when one of them acted weirdly, it was usually well enough explained in their respective POV that it didn’t feel off, even if it was frustrating for plot/romance progression. I also liked the slow unfurling of the romance, and how this seemed to go hand in hand with the unraveling of their selves and thoughts regarding the devil. I also really liked how the side characters were used in the book overall, and for a fairly short, stand-alone book, I felt like we got quite detailed relationships between the MCs and their respective side characters. Additionally, most of these side characters were flawed, especially when it came to family dynamics, and I like how the relationships with these flawed characters were written, and how they weren’t just set as good or bad. It made the story overall feel a lot more complex.Overall, I really enjoyed this book, from the ink imagery it employed to incite terror in the reader to the strength of both of our main characters. I loved watching this story shape them, and I can’t wait to see what this author does next!
4169648624	The Devil Makes Three by Tori Bovalino is the perfect blend of dark academia and horror. This outstanding, atmospheric read had me hooked from the first line. With beautifully dynamic characters, slow-burn romance, and a well depicted horror, this is a book that will keep you up well into the night.Both the main characters, Tess and Eliot, were so well written and easily loveable. Both struggle with different family issues and both struggle with their feelings. Tess is a cellist who had to put her future on hold to make sure her younger sister had one. Eliot is a powerful witch that is looking for a cure to save his mother. Both these characters are struggling with so many emotions. And this is before (and of course during) releasing an all powerful and hungry book demon. A demon that is set on destroying Tess’s life and hurting those closest to her so he can stay in the real world.What I loved about Tess and Eliot (besides their adorable and hilarious banter) was how they put their feelings aside to come together and try to destroy the devil. Their romance blossomed from their first encounter, but it wasn’t insta-love. Bovalino spent time developing their chemistry and romance and made sure it didn’t take away from the main plot of the story, which I thoroughly enjoyed. What I also loved is how Bovalino depicted the devil. As the devil is after Tess, she was second-guessing everything. Second-guessing whether specific encounters happened, if everything was just in her head, and if the devil’s promises were really worth everything. The fear and uncertainty was so palpable, so intense that it almost felt like I was the one in Tess’s shoes.Bovalino’s writing is suberb and beyond atmospheric. Her debut is one that is well written but creates the vibes I’m always looking for in a horror book: spider-crawling chills and suspense that keeps you on edge. I loved The Devil Makes Three from start to finish. The world building, foreboding scenes, a devil that bleeds ink…just everything about this book was phenomenal. And with that ending (THAT ENDING!), if you’re like me, you will be screaming and pulling your hair wondering WHY. That ending really brought the book full circle, but in a surprising way. And you can bet I will be buying anything Tori Bovalino writes.The Devil Makes Three is a book I absolutely recommend. Even if you’re an avid horror book reader or new to this genre, The Devil Makes Three is one that everyone will enjoy. Tori Bovalino’s debut is in the world today, so pick up your copy now!5 reasons to read The Devil Makes Three:1. A beautifully unique and atmospheric story2. A Brit with a swoon-worthy accent and did I mention he’s a witch?3. A book-bound demon that is released from its grimoire and is, yep you guessed it, HOT.4. Writing that will leave your spine tingling and chills that leave you checking every corner of your house.5. Emotionally captivating characters, with Tess and Eliot having some fun enemies-to-lovers banter.6. Did I mention there’s a book-bound demon that bleeds ink and is depicted as HOT?
4251154533	Io riassumerei questo libro così: Elizabeth e Nat di Sorcery of Thorns incontrano Luc di La Vita invisibile di Addie LaRue. Penso calzi veramente a pennello.Premessa doverosa; l'elemento horror/gore di questo libro potrebbe disturbare alcuni lettori. Se avete sopportato bene La Nona Casa non ci dovrebbero essere problemi.Il punto forte del libro penso risieda nel background dei personaggi principali, specialmente per quanto concerne Eliot. Il rapporto tra quest'ultimo e i suoi genitori è veramente complesso e ben costruito a mio avviso, mi è dispiaciuto che l'autrice voglia farlo passare come un personaggio un po' arrogante e sicuro di sé mentre è chiaro a tutti che soffre e che tale personalità non gli si addica per nulla.Un'altra cosa che davvero non ho capito è perché Tess non sopporti Eliot, non è mai successo nulla che spieghi tale antipatia che persiste fino agli ultimi capitoli quando poi, ovviamente, questo astio si trasforma in amore... WHAT? Cosa mi sono persa?Anche il rapporto tra Tess e la sua famiglia è esplorato bene, ho apprezzato particolarmente il rapporto con la sorella minore Nat. Queste sono infatti costrette a cavarsela da sole per poter far fronte alla retta scolastica dato che i loro genitori non hanno saputo amministrare bene il loro patrimonio di famiglia... ma niente spoiler! Se siete interessati lo leggerete. l'aspetto del demone imprigionato nel libro è stato l'aspetto che mi ha catturata sin da subito, forse la vera ragione che mi ha spinto a comprare il libro. Tutta la questione dell'inchiostro e del legame che lega Tess al demone (che si chiama True...si lo so, mi dispiace) è molto intrigante. Avrei voluto sapere di più sulle origini del demone dato che alcune volte si accennava al suo passato ma senza dire molto in realtà... chi sa, forse in futuro... Ad ogni modo la trovo una lettura perfetta per Halloween!
6460236437	⭐️ 3.5 starsI think "weird" is the exact feeling to describe how I feel when I read this. When you look into the description, it's really compelling – all about a haunted library where there's a forbidden grimoire, and our main characters intentionally opened it despite it being dangerous. I really am waiting for some engaging plot, but I don't get it. The plot is so flat; even the devil isn't frightening, and he (yes, it was he) is so chill to the point I'm frustrated. Like, why doesn't he do anything? Then, finally up until 80%, the interesting parts come. Also, there's not much origin about this book, and that was the weak part for being the reason why our main characters can't finish their task.The romance in this plot wasn't my favorite either. It felt like he suddenly liked her despite only knowing her for a few days. While it's okay for the story to unfold like that, there was no chemistry between them, making their romance relationship feel awkward. I think if they had just remained friends, it would have been better. Also, some scenes with the devil confused me; I didn't understand why she did certain things. I don't think those scenes were necessary.That ending part was something that caught me off guard. I was not really thinking about how it ends, but that sentence was really good. So, I liked the book, and surprisingly, I wasn't bored while reading it, but it's not really going to be my favorite. I actually read her latest release, and I can see her improvement from this book. Maybe this book would fit for dark, mysterious happenings in academia, but keep it simple.
4238032783	”My name is Tess Matheson. I am stronger than the devil. And I am not going to die today.” I liked this story. Though, if I’m being completely honest, it was a lot slower than I anticipated. I mean, a book about two teens releasing the devil from a book? I expected it to be, idk, more than what it was. Look, it was good. It definitely had some really creepy and scary moments. But, for me, it was really slow and there were times I wanted to DNF it. However, I am glad that I didn’t and finished because it was still a good book. I also really loved the writing. It was probably the only reason why I continued because the way this story was written was somewhat lyrical and had a lot of beautiful metaphors throughout. So, in the future I will definitely pick up anything else Tori Bovalino writes. I expected this to be more haunting and scary than what it was, but maybe my expectations were a bit high. Just know that this focuses more on the romance aspect than the devil himself. I will say, though, the romance was really sweet and I liked the slow burn feel to it throughout the story. Overall, I still recommend giving this book a chance! Compelling writing and a devil that will make your skin crawl at times, as well as being unique and original. :)
4223610490	I really enjoyed this book!We follow two students Tess who has to provide for her and her sister and works in the library with her great aunt. And Eliot who is the son of the dean and hates his father since he cannot be with his mother in the UK where she is suffering from cancer.Our two POVs meet in the library where Eliot is requesting many grimoires and other magical books hoping to find a cure for his mother. Tess has to collect 146 books and hates his privilleged ass.When one day they find a secret passageway under the library that leads to a very dangerous book. A book that contains the devil and he is eager to be free.He hunts both Tess and Eliot and even starts to possess other people in order to get what he wants: Tess as a vessel. But Tess and Eliot are ready to work together to stop him for once and for all and might even become friends along the way.I really felt for Eliot he was such a sweet boy. I did not felt the same for Tess she was a bit annoying somethimes but her stubberness was butkicking. Her sister however is the most ungrateful child in existence. Really wanted to slap her.Finally I really missed vengeance on Eliot's dad because he is a mean, privellged, vindictive and abusive man who suitable deserves to burn in hell.
4226821819	3.5 stars! I finished this a couple of days ago and have been trying to find the others to describe my exact feelings. The premise of this book is fantastic: a library setting where the son of the principal and the girl who works at the library accidentally summon the devil by reading off a dangerous book they should not be reading. I think the main problem for me was that the execution felt a little rushed. This books was eerie and atmospheric and the start really creates an amazing setting for how the story is going to go. However I think it felt a little rushed, both the actual summoning of the devil and subsequent damage control plot as well as the romance subplot. It felt a little insta-lovey and just a bit too quick. I would’ve loved to have seen it developed a little more and perhaps it would’ve done well having an extra 60ish pages in. Overall though, this was very entertaining and definitely a great book to read during spooky season!
4292193194	This was a quick and fun read. I loved both characters a lot. The library was intriguing as well. I flew through this book. I wouldn't say this was a 100% horror book. There were definitely some elements but to me it wasn't scary at all. I think it's more a paranormal fantasy with some mystery and horror elements. I would've liked to know more about some other characters and background and the magic and that's why it's 3 stars. If it had those it easily would've been 4 stars or higher. However I think this was a debut and considering that I think it's really good and well written for a debut!
4216277449	Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for this ARC.Dark academia is one of my favourite genres - especially ones that are set in or heavily feature libraries, due to my job. So the synopsis for this book ticked all my boxes. I liked the two main characters, Tess particularly - I'd have loved to live with Eliot a bit more, especially to get more of his relationship with his mother. The plot was fast-moving, though it perhaps dragged slightly in the middle. And the ending...! What a cliffhanger. All in all a very enjoyable read, as long as you're not bothered by gore!
3967172023	4 ⭐️
