2353462363	This was a super cute and fun read! I would absolutely recommend to paranormal lovers.CW: drowningI have read fantastic young adult and adult fiction works from Victoria Schwab and I have to say, she’s done it again with this new excursion in her writing! Her vivid story telling translates well to middle grade. It retains the same whimsicality and darkness of her other novels (I particularly feel City of Ghosts is perfect for Victoria Schwab fans who are missing The Archived!!) I saw someone compare this novel to “Strangers Things meets Ghost Hunters” and I 100% agree with this sentiment. The overall atmosphere of this book is immaculate and I’m so excited to read future installments in this series.My one main critique of City of Ghosts is that it felt fairly simplistic. The characters, though undeniably loveable, are not extraordinarily fleshed out. The plot is straightforward. I did not find myself shocked by plot twists, concerned for the character’s well-beings, etc. It was a great story. Easy to read, entertaining, and engaging. But it did not blow me away and I desired more from the story.I would definitely recommend City of Ghosts and will be anxiously awaiting book two!I received a free copy of this book from Scholastic at Book Expo 2018. I had no obligation to review this book and all opinions are my own.
7665173827	fun & quick read! Very light read but great wholesome spooky vibes - there's ghosts, graveyards, secret passageways, a paranormal TV show, & more! I think I would've rated it higher if I read it when I was younger (it's middle grade!) or it's the perfect quick light spooky season read
2995984346	3.5/5
2268712149	ARC provided by Scholastic in exchange for an honest review. “People think that ghosts only come out at night, or on Halloween, when the world is dark and the walls are thin. But the truth is, ghosts are everywhere.” City of Ghosts is a middle grade novel that has such a perfect spooky atmosphere, and it’s set around scary places in Scotland. Like, sounds perfect, true? And, as always, Victoria’s writing is so very beautiful and lyrical. I think this will be such a fun fall read for so many readers. Also, this is my 100th book read in 2018! *throws confetti everywhere* Cassidy Blake isn’t the most popular girl in her school, but she has the only friend that she needs; a ghost named Jacob that saved her from death. And after Jacob saved her that frightening day, they have been connected. Jacob lives in the realm of the living with Cassidy, but Cassidy now can open and enter the veil, and see the ghosts that are stuck within it. Even though she is always drawn to walk in-between the worlds, she has always managed to stay safe. That is, until her parents, who are ghost hunters, by the way, get a once in a lifetime opportunity to film a show about the most haunted spots in Scotland. And while in Scotland, Cassidy meets a ghost that is more evil than any of the others she’s ever encountered before. “Once there was a woman, a beauty with fair skin and black hair, and a little boy who loved to wander.” Trigger and content warnings for death, especially the death of children, murder, loss of a child, and abduction.I truly did enjoy this book immensely. In fact, it might be my favorite Victoria Schwab book to date. But, a few things kept me from rating it higher. The biggest being the Harry Potter references. At first, I was so happy, and then they became so abundant and so forced. Also, you can really tell that Victoria is banking on her previous fans buying this, because yeah, twenty and thirty year olds are going to love nods to Harry Potter, but a new and actual middle grade audience? Probably not so much. And even me, a Gryffindor who fits that demographic, thought the Harry Potter references were too much. The only other annoying thing, is that this cover really doesn’t make sense. Like, Cassidy does have a cat named Grim, but they aren’t brought up very much, and when they are it is in their carrier. Like, looking at this book cover you’ll get major Mr.Kindly from Nevernight vibes, but that’s totally not the case in the slightest. And I obviously know that authors have no control over their covers, but I wish the cat was replaced with Jacob. “Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?” But overall, I really do think people are going to enjoy this one. Again, Victoria truly is a very talented writer and her prose always really works with me. The atmosphere in this book is completely teleportive, and it was such a fast and enjoyable read. I loved seeing these scary places though the eyes of Cassidy, and I can’t wait to see where the story goes next. Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch The quotes above were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication.Buddy read with May at Forever and Everly & Julianna at Paper Blots! ❤
2269452396	“Stories have power," she says. "So long as you believe them.”If my life were as aesthetic as Victoria's covers, I would have had an editorial in VOGUE years ago. BUT - and that's the only criticism I have - how is the cat on the cover not a main character? Honestly, though, for some weird reason, I thought this was a story about a girl that can see ghosts (true) and her best friend, a ghost cat (totally not true). Turns out her best friend IS a ghost, but a human one. Well, post-human. You know what I mean. Not sure where this misconception came from, but I definitely would have liked that version, too.Overall I enjoyed this book a lot. Since it is a middle-grade novel and tuned for a younger audience than ADSOM and Vicious it comes without saying that it is less suspenseful and intricate than her YA or adult novels. I loved seeing how the level of writing and plotting changes when the target audience is another. I have read so many of Schwab's novels, but never a middle-grade one and it's amazing how the author adjusts her writing but still keeps her voice.I would have been fairly spooked if I had read this book as an 8-year-old kid if I'm being honest. It was a fun, slightly creepy and superbly nuanced novel for kids and teenagers. It talks about friendship, trust and death in a child-friendly way without giving kids the feeling that you don't trust them they couldn't stomach such heavy topics. Oh, and if you are a Potterhead, this is a perfect book for you, too.I rate this book with 4 stars because I was not as involved in the story, and did not get as warm with the main character as I would have liked it to be. Nevertheless, I can highly recommend this book for anyone who loves a good ghost story or two.Find more of my books on Instagram
2861589835	”We all need someone who sees us clearly.”This was a really nice middle grade book and I enjoyed reading it.Of course there are no horrible plot twists or especially complex characters but this isn’t what the book aimed for and if you’re aware of this you’ll not only be fine but also able to savour it properly. ”My camera was on the bedside table, the purple strap frayed and the viewfinder cracked. It was damaged but not ruined, changed but not destroyed. Kind of like me.A little special.A little strange.”Since this was my first Victoria Schwab book I can finally say that I’m intrigued by her writing style. I don’t know how her other YA and adult books are but after giving “City of Ghosts” a try I’m convinced that I’ll like her other series as well. Because even though there didn’t happen a lot in this rather short fantasy book the writing style still kept me going and caused me to read on. Actually I’m kinda afraid that I’ll fall head over heels for all of her other books. If they have fleshed out morally grey characters and an intriguing story line I’ll be a goner before I can say: “What?” XD”Fine, seven,” I say as we reach my street, “but I get final approval. And no Batman.”He looks aghast. “You heathen.”As for the plot in this book: It was okay and a little bit predictable, but we’re talking about a middle grade book here so that’s to be expected. This said I really liked Cassidy as a character and I adored and loved her close friendship with Jacob. Those two were a lot of fun to read about and I can’t help but wonder what will happen to them in the next instalment. There was a little bit of foreboding at the end of the book so we’ll see what’s going to happen next. ;-) She throws her arms around me. “Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?”I didn’t get warm with Lara but she’s not really a cordial character so I guess I wasn’t supposed to like her all that much. Cassidy’s parents were pretty kick-ass though and I loved the fact that they spoke about ghosts and were experts but didn’t even have a clue that their own daughter could actually see and talk to them. *lol* It’s an almost iconic irony and I was so there for it. XDHe looks up at the word ghost and clears his throat. “I prefer the phrase ‘corporeally challenged.’”If there was one thing I truly loved about “City of Ghosts” it's the way Edinburgh was described. It made me curious about the city and I’ll make sure to visit it one day. "Mary King's Close" sounded too fascinating to pass on it and since I’m a little history geek Edinburgh sounds like the perfect place to be. =)All told I thoroughly enjoyed this and I’ll make sure to read the second book as well. Before that I’ll jump into Victoria Schwab’s other books, though. I’m curious now and this curiosity needs to be sated. *lol*__________________________________Soo I guess it’s confession time:I never read a Victoria Schwab book! There, I said it. XDAnd now that I admitted this I’m finally going to change it as well. *lol*I don’t know if her only middle grade book is the best way to start with her books, but I picked this from a shelf at my library and decided to go for it.As far as I can tell there will be ghosts, haunted places and graveyards and after finishing “Lockwood and Co.” recently, this sounds exactly like the kind of book I need right now. Let’s hope I’ll fall in love with Victoria Schwab’s books too! =)(Because judging from all the reviews I saw, she might actually be able to become one of my fave authors.)Wish me luck! ;-)
2121413231	Yup. Loved this. Doesn’t matter what genre or age demographic Victoria writes for, her stories are always so amazing. They speak to something deep within my soul.
2249919141	ETA: Queen Schwab has now joined the small, elite group of authors who has hit bestsellers lists in Adult, YA, and Children's releases, and I can't think of anyone who deserves it more. 💖 As someone who loves ghost stories, stories set in Scotland, middle grade horror, and Victoria Schwab, City of Ghosts is like some sort of literary perfect storm for me. It was one of my most anticipated releases of the year, to the point at which, when I received the eARC approval notification, I literally stopped everything I was doing to start reading this. All I can say is that it did not disappoint. Some people call it intuition, others second sight. That tickle at the edge of your senses, telling you there’s something more. Cassidy is able to see ghosts, and to travel beyond the Veil, thanks to an accident that left her somewhere in between the living and the dead. Despite the bizarre nature of her everyday life, Cassidy is such a level-headed, calm child, and I loved that about her character. Even as a kid, I could never relate to MG protagonists who were particularly reactive or prone to outburst, because that wasn’t my personality, and I would have lived for a main character to see myself in like Cassidy. She has this “old soul” quality to her that’s so charming and sweet. Crossing the Veil is like opening the closet door. Of course, the difference is, monsters aren’t real. The closet was always empty. The Veil… not so much. I absolutely adored the world Victoria created here, and thought the Veil itself was a delightful touch. I loved the idea of this semi-tangible thing that Cassidy could cast aside to enter the world of spirits, and you can tell that the entire dynamic of the Veil is one that Victoria has thought out in complexity, from the consistent rules it has. I was delighted to see that, even in a children’s story, Victoria cut no corners. The living may take strength from love and hope, but the dead grow strong on darker things. On pain and anger and regret. While I do consider City of Ghosts spooky enough to be considered horror, I think it’s going to be important for readers to keep in mind that this book is middle grade horror—it’s written for children, not adults. I’m seeing a lot of negative reviews from long-time Schwab readers who feel that it isn’t scary enough or is too predictable, and obviously everyone has the entire right to their own opinion, but to offer another perspective: as someone who is a long-time middle grade horror fan, I feel that this story absolutely excels at accomplishing its goals. That said, it is on the lighter end of the MG horror spectrum, so if you’re looking to hand a copy of this to a kid in your life, I’d say it’s suitable as long as they aren’t terribly easily frightened. But we both know Jacob’s not a normal ghost, just like I’m not a normal girl. Not anymore. There was an accident. A bike. A frozen river. The last thing I want to touch on is Cassidy’s best friend, Jacob—a little ghost boy who saved her life, and in the process, became tangled up in her everyday world. He stays in her home with her, and her parents have more or less accepted his presence, even. He’s supportive and protective, an absolute delight of a character. He’s a perfect best friend to Cassidy, and he’s so precious that I just wanted to squeeze and protect him. I wish I could slip my hand into his. Give him some of my warmth. But all I can do is promise that I won’t let him freeze. That I’ll never leave him behind. Where you go, I go. Of course, this book is by Victoria Schwab, and I don’t know if the woman is altogether comfortable with writing a story without any sadness. Without spoiling anything, there’s a conversation that occurs at the end of City of Ghosts that has me simultaneously eager and incredibly nervous to continue the series, because, well… let’s just say that it feels like some very uncomfortable foreshadowing, and I don’t think even the kiddos are safe in Victoria’s worlds. If we were in a comic book, this would be our origin story. Some people get a spider bite, or a vat of acid. We got a river. Honestly, City of Ghosts was literally a flawless read for me. It held all of the charms and whimsy that I love so much in MG horror, with the added bonus of Victoria Schwab’s gorgeous storytelling and characters. I am so happy that I pre-ordered a finished copy of this ages ago, because I know I will reread it time and time again, and I cannot wait for the announcement of the second book!All quotes come from an advance copy and may not match the final release. Thank you so much to Scholastic for providing me with this ARC in exchange for an honest review!You can find this review and more on my blog, or you can follow me on twitter, bookstagram, or facebook!
2230162270	(2.5) Well this was a disappointment but I suppose it's partly my fault.I didn't realize this was a Middle Grade book which isn't my cup of tea. Schwab's forte is her writing in my opinion and unfortunately a MG book doesn't show it AT ALL. This was a quick read and a little girl seeing ghosts wasn't uninteresting but I wouldn't recommend it unless you are 12 or under, or usually love MG.
3399696286	3.5
2526401134	Despite me being annoyed by all the Harry Potter references (they were literally everywhere, please stop), this was a solid middle grade book.Nothing special and it felt a little rushed, but it's based on a good idea, it had a great writing style and characters with a lot of potential. I'm looking forward to continuing this series!
2531055896	This was so much fun! I can’t wait to see what kind of shenanigans Cassidy and Jacob get up to next.
2827695136	My thoughts in a nutshell It was a light, fun read. I wanted to love it but unfortunately, I wasn't the right audience for City of Ghosts.The story is about…Skip over this point if you don't like the sneak peek. Cassidy's parents are ghosthunters and they get an offer to make a series about Scottish ghost stories, so the whole family travel to Scotland and they visited creepy places. There is one problem; Cassidy can see ghosts and she gets into some serious trouble on holiday. What impressed me the most 😊 I really enjoyed the story. When I was reading I realized that it is not a young adult book but middle grade. I thought I still like the middle-grade genre, but sadly, I have to say it loud I grew out of it. If I've read this at 10-12 years old, I would love it so much. So the problem is with me, not the book.The story is wonderfully atmospheric. I've felt the Scottish air and the creepy vibe.The main character Cassidy is an interesting little girl. Although she is only 12, she has a strong voice and she is surprisingly brave (sometimes she's even more brave than a 12 years old but it is a natural thing in a middle-grade book)She has a sidekick Jacob, who is a ghost. I like the friendship between them. I adored when they always mention their friend's rules. It was adorable.The ending was satisfying, but I won't read the second book.What I don't like at all ☹️ At times the plot was superficial. Sometimes too fast sometimes too slow. At the beginning I was bored then I was excited and these feelings were changing over and over again.Lara was also trivial, her presence was unimportant. I don't like when a character just an indigent.I don't understand the cover. Why is the cat on it? The cat was an unless part of the book. I don't get it. Make a conclusion Overall, this is a great middle-grade read. I'm sad because I become too old for this. :'( I still highly recommend it for the young readers. They will enjoy it, I promise.I gave it 3 stars, by my personal experience.
2268036638	This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book PrescriptionBR with L“Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?”🌟 Imagine reading a children book, one of those simplistic ones with many rhymes and pictures to your son/ daughter/ younger sibling. Your child may love it and you will have zero feelings toward it. You may even think that it was very short and had more potential! But you dismiss these thoughts as you are not the target reader xD🌟 OK, OK. I may have exaggerated a lot here but what I am trying to say is that this is a Middle Grade book and we should approach it as one. I don’t deny that I wish it was bigger, with more action and creepier. But that’s just how MG books are. I think someone who reads a lot of MG will be able to judge it better than most of us. Let’s be honest, we all know V.E. Schwab and how she is a great writer and always comes up with awesome twists and ideas. I think if this was an adult book, she would have done an outstanding job.🌟 I saw some negative reviews (all from adult readers) which actually made me go into this with lower expectations. And I ended up enjoying it more than I thought I would.🌟 Story wise, the idea was great -as usual- and the story got interesting more and more (it was really good from the ghost hunters part and after that). But I felt the ending was a bit rushed and it could have been a bit slower.🌟 The writing felt MG to me (and that’s how it should be, Duh!) And tbh, that fascinated me, Victoria can write MG, YA and adults book and change the voice and settings accordingly! There were many HP references that warmed my heart but I am not sure if MG readers would feel the same about it.🌟 Summary: I like the characters and their development, I like almost everything about this. If you are an adult reading this don’t expect it to be the next A darker shade of magic because it is not and nor it is supposed to be so.As a MG book, I give it 4 stars.As an adult reader, I give it 3 stars.🌟 Prescription: For MG readers and adults who enjoy the MG genre. Otherwise, I recommend going into this objectively or skipping it altogether!
2255998981	Thank you to Scholastic Press for providing me with an e-Arc via Edelweiss.I'm still in disbelief that I got approved for this. The shriek I let out when I saw the words "approved" on Edelweiss was enough to make my husband come running into the room to see what happened. It's not everyday you get to read one of your most anticipated reads for the rest of 2018 before it comes out, so I am eternally grateful to Scholastic Press for the opportunity. As a child/teenager, I LIVED for the TV show Ghosthunters. I used to stay up all night in my room scared out of my mind watching it, so when I read the synopsis of this I knew I needed to read it.City of Ghosts is a super fun, spooky, and atmospheric read that follows Cassidy Blake, a young girl who can enter "the veil" and see the ghosts within. How is that possible, you ask? Technically Cassidy drowned, but her best friend Jacob (who happens to be a ghost) saved her, and now walks the living realm with her. Together they can enter "the veil", but it typically comes with the cost of Cassidy having trouble pulling herself out so Jacob, her trusty sidekick, is always there to help her out. Cassidy and Jacob's friendship is so incredibly adorable and I am living for it.Cassidy's parents just so happen to be a well-known author duo who have written a book series that's like a mash-up of history and ghost stories. When her parents are presented with an opportunity to host a TV show that takes viewers on a tour of the scariest cities in the world, Cassidy and her family pack up and head to their first destination, Scotland. I think Schwab really nailed the creepy and atmospheric vibe the second the Blake family touched down in Scotland. I love me some atmospheric vibes.As the family begins touring some of the most haunted sites, Cassidy begins to feel that the pull on the veil is stronger than ever and the ghosts in Scotland are much more sinister than Cassidy has ever encountered. Especially one in particular, who abducts children, the Red Raven. With the help of a newly found friend Cassidy finds out that there is a reason she can see ghosts, and a job she must do. She needs to help send the ghosts permanently beyond the veil, off to whatever lies beyond it. And so beings the Cassidy's adventure of trying to defeat the Red Raven and save her life.I totally have to admit that this book was CREEPY. This is the type of book that probably would have haunted my dreams as a child. The Red Raven is something straight out of a kid's nightmare. I really enjoyed the action-packed goodness of Cassidy and Jacob running through the living realm and the veil in a race against time to try and beat the Red Raven, I can't even tell you how fast I was flipping through the pages. Plus, this includes super creepy graveyard parts, and what horror fan doesn't love a good graveyard scare?!Some very minor issues I had with this include how underdeveloped the plot felt at times. I understand that technically this is a MG novel but certain parts just felt so rushed when they didn't need to be. Also, the Harry Potter references were a bit much. I never thought I would type those words. The first couple references were super adorable and I was hyped to see it, but then it just became a little too redundant for me. Favorite Quotes "Every time I get nervous or scared, I remind myself that every good story needs twists and turns. Every heroine needs an adventure. " ""Stories have power," she says. "So long as you believe them."" "So we pile into the cab, two parents, one kid, a ghost, and a ticked-off cat, and we head for the airport." All in all, I really loved this, it was such a fun story. I loved Jacob and Cassidy's friendship. I loved the setting, the creepiness, the action, it was all a blast. I mean, I read this in one sitting and I can't even remember the last time I read a book this fast. I'm not sure if this will appeal to all of Schwab's readers since it is MG but I enjoyed this SO much more than her Monsters of Verity duology, and I cannot wait to see what city we get to explore next!Blog | Twitter | Instagram
2025786558	Y'all can thank me, I sold my soul so we can get more Victoria Schwab books in 2018.Anyways, I have a vague sense that I read this book somewhere before. Perhaps in another book by Schwab. *Cough* The Archived *cough*. But there's no Mackenzie and Wesley and it wasn't as good, which is a shame.Also it's probably a three star book, but my future children's first words are probably gonna be "Victoria Schwab" so I added a bonus star just for that.
2216512208	This was not at all what I thought it was going to be (in a good way)! It was equal parts cute middle grade, creepy ghost stories, and fun adventure tale all in one! This is why Schwab is one of my FAVVVSSS
2701182948	“Stories have power," she says. "So long as you belive them.” Me loving this is no surprise. I love Victoria Schwab and I've loved every single book that I've read from her. She just has this way of sucking in the reader into her stories and I'm here for it. I really wanted to read Bridge of Souls as it came out recently. I ordered it and all, only to realise that I don't actually really remember what happened in the first two books. And of course I couldn't pass an opportunity to re-read a Victoria Schwab book. I alwasy make stupid excuses to re-read my favourite books, but here I actually had one that could be counted as a real reason to re-read a book, not just because I loved it. art by: Lemoncielart City of Ghosts is Schwab's middle grade series which follows a girl names Cassidy Blake. Since she's had a near death experience, Cass had been able to lift the Veil that separates the world of the living from the world of the dead. And when her parents host a TV show about the wolrd most haunted places, they end up going to Edinburgh. There's she meets a girl with the same gift as her and she figures that she has so much more to learn, especially when she realises the city of ghosts is more dangerous than she initialy thought. All the books that I've read from Victoria Schwab (her YA and adult books alike) have been pretty dark and this one is no exception really. For a middle grade it's pretty dark. Of course unlike her other works this has a lot of light hearted moments and it's a pretty easy book to fly through as it doesn't have those secret and hidden hard truths that her older books tend to have. I loved following Cassidy and her ghost friend, Jacob, along their journey in Edinburgh. despite this book being quite short, go through quite an adventure. I loved the dynamics between them and they way they interacted really. Their friend is just so cute and precious and I love it. The plot of the story is definitely intriguing. The author has a way with words and because of that I was never actually bored while reaidng this! The plot was very fast paced and I just had a great time reading (and re-reading) this. If you are able to get the audiobook, I strongly advice you to do it. Now while re-reading this I actually ended up listening to the audiobook and I juts loved it. The narrator had a really ncie and soothing voice. It feels like a shame not listening to the audiobook for this when it's done so well. If haven't read a Victoria Schwab book before, in my opinion, this is the place to start. If you are afraid of her denser, more adult books , just start with this as it's an excellent middle grade book and just a cute story overall. “Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?” __________________________And I'm done with my re-read. Now, let's go to the next book! RTC.
2255703963	“My life is- Air in starving lungs. A hand grabbing mine. A light in the dark. The pebbles beneath me on the frozen bank, and water dripping from my hair, and Jacob saying, “I’ve got you.” Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Cassidy was dead once. Well, nearly. But someone, something saved her. A ghost, named Jacob. Now he’s her best friend and he’s always by her side.When her parents start a new documentary, Cassidy goes on a new adventure to Schottland. Even though I absolutely adore Victoria Schwab, her writing style and the whole ghost story, I had some problems with the whole pacing in this book. In the beginning and in the middle it was pretty slow, it was a little bit like an introduction. And then when we had the last 30 % it was like a freakin roller coaster. There was so much action, emotions and I couldn’t stop reading. So, all in all I’m really happy I’ve read this story and can’t wait to read the next books in this series. Character ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Cassidy, the main character is a really interesting girl with a fascinating talent. She can step through the veil and see ghosts and their death, their story. She’s a really smart, shy and brave girl. She’s curious and wants to hear the story of a ghost before she takes a picture of him. Jacob, her best friend and a ghost is really a little mystery. We don’t know how he died and why, the only thing we know is that he saved Cassidy’s life and is now bond with her. And he’s not only bond, he’s also extremely loyal to her friendship. He really loves her like a best friend and would do anything for her. I’m absolutely in love with Jacob and Cassidy, their like partners in crime you want to team up with and go on a ghost hunt. There was another girl, Lara, with special skills like Cassidy. She was really cool, brave and a lot more mature than Cassidy.World ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️When you die, you go to heaven or hell. Or you’re being trapped in the Veil, the inbetween. Sometimes you move between the worlds, you were dead, at least on the bridge of death, but you were saved. Like Cassidy who was saved by Jacob. He pulled her out of the freezing river. But there are bad ghosts in the Veil, ghost that want what Cassidy and Lara have - a live. Victoria Schwab is a Master of world building and has a fascinating brilliant writing style. When you start to read a book by Victoria Schwab it takes time to get into the story, but when you’re in, when you’re really in, then it’s over. You’ll love Victoria Schwab even more.Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The most pure and innocent relationship is the one between Jacob and Cassidy. Their friendship is so full of love and loyalty and they have tons of rules for their friendship. They were the cutest. Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Victoria Schwab you brilliant woman. No one can write like you, no one can create worlds like you,No one can make us feel magic and emotions and so much more. Can’t wait for the next book in this series. 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻
3904750967	3.5 stars ☪☾✩ “Every time I get nervous or scared, I remind myself that every good story needs twists and turns. Every heroine needs an adventure.” “Sometimes help is a place and sometimes it’s a person, and sometimes it’s a bit of both.” This revieuw does not contain spoilers!. City of Ghosts ☪☾✩ Iss the first book in queen Ve Schwab her middle grade urban fantasy triology about a girl , Cassidy that can see ghosts and who also happends too have this sarcastic ghost friend as a side kick. Cassidy can enter the '' veil '' a place where souls of people who died stay if they havent moved on yet. Since cassidy '' died '' and came back too live she has the abbility too travel here and see ghostst. Dont go intoo this expecting this too be as the queen her adult books , its middlegrade so its different and lighter. In my opinion it still has her beautiful writing and way of throwing you in the story and really sucking you in too it and overall i found the story fun too read and quick but it doesnt have the darkness or twistst and heavy things and depht that her adult books have. I personally never read middlegrade anymore , i am almost 20 and just dont feel like reading it anymore as i dont connect with it but when i started loving Ve Schwab her works i did want too try her middlegrade aswell. If i should read this for middlegrade and for people that are younger then the rating probably would be higher as i think many kids would love this. I know i would when i was young but now that i am older it isnt a blow away book for me anymore , thats why i came at the 3.5 stars as a final rating based on how i rate books but this wasnt a bad book at all. But i didnt have the connection with it and feels as i have with her adult books which makes sense as this is a different age level as where its written for.The book is friendship and plot focused and the friendship is quite adorbs. i love the worldbuilding and the way Ve schwab created the magic in this book and the setting the charracters end up in , in Scotland. It has a lot of harry potter references which can you find just okay like me or can really annoy you. I didnt mind it but i get why people would be annoyed by it. The story does feels a bit rushed. Its just a fun quick middle grade read with beatiful writing and i will continue the serie. I would reccomend if ofc too younger readers and for Ve schwab fans who want too read more of her different works , just dont go in expecting something like her adult books. Also if you want a light fun quick book then this can be the book pal for you. List with things i loved ; ☪☾✩- the setting and the atmosphere - the humor troughout the book - the Harry Potter references - The friendship in the book between Cassie and her ghost friend , Jacob - the Writing List with things i liked less ; ☪☾✩- a bit rushed and a bit too quick which made it lose a little depht- Cassidy could have been more layered but this is probably because its middle grade.
2398203756	Victoria Schwab could literally write shampoo labels and I'd read them like they were prized literature pieces.I loved this one, it's probably my favorite book of hers after Vicious. Also, now I wanna visit Edinburgh soooo bad! No kidding, I'm seriously planning a vacation for next year as I type this😭😭😭
2150653134	"Every time I get nervous or scared, I remind myself that every good story needs twists and turns. Every heroine needs an adventure." City of Ghosts is a middle-grade paranormal book about a girl who had a near death experience and now she can see ghosts. Cassidy is dreaming about her ghost-free summer vacation on the beach, until her parents – who happen to be sort of ghost hunting team -, announce that they got a new TV show about haunted places, so the girl has to go with them to Edinburgh, Scotland, pointed as one of the most haunted cities in the world. At least she gets to take her best friend, Jacob, with her – although he is not exactly alive.This is my second Victoria Schwab, which btw is weird because I actually own a bunch of her books. I had only read A Darker Shade of Magic before this one, but now I can breathe a sigh of relief and be even more optimistic that I’ll continue to enjoy her stuff. I met Victoria last year and she’s a sweetie, so obviously I really want to like what she writes. So far so good.I don’t usually read middle-grade, so I’m really glad I enjoyed this one. It was an easy and quick read, and it had precisely the paranormal vibes I’ve been in the mood for. It’s a very simple book, so it won’t mindblow you or anything, but I found it quite enjoyable and it doesn’t take much out of you to read it. I have to say that this is more atmospheric than actually spooky, but I’m fine with that. "Stories have power,” she says. “So long as you belive them." I really liked the characters. Cassidy is a chill girl, she’s brave, and she is very attached to her friend. As mentioned in the book, she is a total Gryffindor (yep, Cass loves Harry Potter), goes right into danger, and doesn’t back down just because something is scary. I particularly liked that she is actually a thoughtful and empathetic kid. She really considers other people’s feelings, which is nice taking into account that she is just 10 (or 11, can’t be sure). My 10-year-old self would not have been so chill haha.I loved her friendship with Jacob. He’s a ghost that looks around her age, and he saved her life. It’s really cute how close they are. He’s funny, loves superheroes, and is very protective of her – he can also read her mind. It was particularly endeering for me that, since Jacob can’t touch things, she opens comic books on her bed and flips pages so he can read them. "Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?" Cassidy’s parents were kind of crazy, but in a fun way. Her mom is that type of person that hears a ghost story and goes like “yay murder, mayhem!”, and her father was more fascinated by the history aspects. Cass would often indulge them in their ghost-related endeavors, even though she knew they weren’t the actual “ghost-whisperers” in the family.The setting of Edinburgh was really something. I’ve never been there, so I can’t say if it was well represented, but considering Schwab spends a lot of her time in that city, she probably knew what she was doing. The history interwoven in that place felt like the perfect background for a paranormal story – do you know anything actually creepier than history? haha Isn’t that why horror movies love to stamp that “based on real facts” sentence to make the audience go “ohhh”. City of Ghosts was a good Halloween read, and I do intend to keep reading this Cassidy Blake series. This reminded me a lot of The Mediator by Meg Cabot and I loved those books. Of course, I’ll also continue reading other things by Victoria Schwab, and the next one will be Vicious.Blog Review | Twitter | Instagram
2477642295	finished this on day 2 of booktubeathon and forgot to mark it! love love loved it. A perfect read for the fall/halloween time and definitely a new middle grade favorite.
4941838744	3.75/5To bardzo prosta książka, ale wynika to na pewno z faktu, że jest przeznaczona dla młodszego czytelnika — małe jesieniary będę zachwycone!
2444980096	Thank you Edelweiss and Scholastic for sending a review copy in exchange for an honest review. “People think that ghosts only come out at night, or on Halloween, when the world is dark and the walls are thin. But the truth is, ghosts are everywhere.” We follow the adventures of Cassidy Blake and her best friend Jacob who happens to be a ghost. What new adventure will Cass venture on this time? And will it be different than all the others?I got approved for City of Ghosts two days ago and I still can't believe it. This book was such a spooky and fun read! If you love middle grade then this book will probably be pretty enjoyable. I've always loved middle grade books, and finding out that this book is middle grade and spooky made me love it even more.I felt like the story was unique. I haven't gotten around to reading many books about ghosts and I'm really glad that I got to read this one. What I loved was that Cassidy is such a Harry Potter fan. The amount of HP references made me want to read the books all over again. Loved Cass and Jacob's friendship. Loved their friendship rules and just everything about them. The atmosphere that the author created in this book was superb. The places and encounters that Cassidy went through made me feel the spooky vibes (not to mention that the weather right now is pretty windy where I am) “Stories have power," she says. "So long as you believe them.” The story was fast paced and fun to read. Would definitely recommend this book even if it is different than Victoria Schwab's other works. I have a feeling readers are really going to enjoy this. I've already ordered A Darker Shade of Magic, and I also have a copy of This Savage Song to get back home to. Really enjoyed her writing and I'm looking forward to reading all her other works.|| Blog || Instagram ||
2667664377	2.5 stars. You could clearly tell by the writing in this book that Schwab is aiming for a younger audience than with her other books, so maybe I’m just the wrong demographic for this but the story just felt really.. simple?The writing seemed basic to me and the plot didn’t hold much interest. I did like the characters though, even if they didn’t really stand out. This book could’ve been longer in my opinion and then it wouldn’t have felt so mediocre, but I’m still excited to read more Schwab in the future. Whether I’ll pick up the sequel when it comes out, I don’t think so.
2268959196	Victoria Schwab's entrance into the Middle Grade genre really couldn’t have gone any better, in my opinion. Schwab is undeniably one of my favourite authors, so I wasn’t really expecting anything less. Set in the gorgeous city of Edinburgh, with a haunting atmosphere and quirky characters, City of Ghosts absolutely knocked it out of the park.Within the novel we follow Cassidy, a young girl who once had a near death experience, resulting in her having an extraordinary ability to cross the ‘Veil’ into the realm of dead. In other words, our girl Cass can see ghosts, in fact, her best friend is one. Cassidy’s parents are relatively famous writers, the ‘Inspectres’, her Mom is a believer, her father is a skeptic with a passion for history. Together, their Ghost stories are quite a hit, such a hit that they get a TV deal, with the first Episode set in the gloriously haunted Edinburgh. And this is where our ghost story kicks off. Cassidy Blake is an interesting little girl, that’s for sure. She clearly doesn't quite fit in, emphasised by the fact that her best friend is a ghost and she spends her free time falling into the world of the ghosts… no little girl doing that would fit in. But Cassidy is lovable, and as a reader I cared about her, I worried for her and felt empathy for her. She clearly has some struggles, and just because she’s so involved in the ghost world, that doesn’t mean it doesn’t scare her at times. Schwab has crafted Cassidy in such a tender way that as an older reader I wanted to look after her, and I can imagine younger readers would relate to her (maybe not the seeing ghosts part, but the quirky, not quite understood kid part). Jacob was also a loveable character, although rather questionable at times… He’s the ghost best-friend we spoke of. I think he was spectacularly put together, with the tenderness of being a kid, and Cass’s best friend, combined with the creepy element of him being... well, dead. Schwab has done a fantastic job of making the reader both care about him and question him, which is such a staple of her work, and something she always does very well. I’m eager to learn more about Jacob as this series progresses, there were certain hints that I look forward to following, which could have quite an impact on this story. For me personally, the atmosphere of a read is what really sells it, and the atmosphere Schwab has created within City of Ghosts really is spectacular. With the premise of the book being ghosts, you’d expect creepy, and that’s exactly what you get. Beautifully, hauntingly creepy - yet it’s a middle grade novel. Schwab manages to create this ghostly atmosphere perfectly, so that it’s chilling, yet not scary. She also manages to weave in the humour that a middle grade should have, to lighten the atmosphere ever so slightly, and provide that giggle. Adding to the atmosphere greatly is the enchanting setting of Edinburgh, and the way Schwab has captured its beauty, and entwined that with its haunting history. It really does make for a captivating and immersive setting. The fact that I’ve visited Edinburgh a couple of times made this even more enjoyable for me, as a few of the landmarks were ones I recognised, or had been too - this added just that little bit extra for me, but I appreciate that won't be the case for all readers.Schwab’s writing is always beautiful to me, I love the way she paces a novel. I read this beauty in one sitting, very possibly thanks to the short chapters within smaller parts, and the clean and sharp execution Schwab delivers. As a first venture into Middle Grade, this is the most simplistic of Schwab’s books I have read, so it was different, of course, but I still loved it. It still felt like her, yet she’s managed to cater for that younger audience. The writing was easy to follow, easy to understand, completely immersive and just beautiful. Without giving anything away, the plot was great too. I really enjoyed the journey this book took me on, I loved exploring with Cass and discovering the dark history of the city. I felt the suspense in times of trouble, and I was rooting for them all along. I loved the way our villain was woven into the story, it was captivating, and really had such a haunting atmosphere about it. I don’t want to risk spoiling anything for you if you haven’t read this book yet though, so I won’t go too far into my plot thoughts. Just know that I liked it a lot, and all those loose strings have left me eager for book two. I had a really fun time with this book, it had the lightheartedness of a middle grade novel, but was also so evidently a Schwab novel with a killer atmosphere. As I’ve already said, the atmosphere of a book really sells it for me, and I was not disappointed with this one bit. I felt like I was on an Edinburgh adventure myself, discovering all the ghostly things and haunted places with Cass. It was very enjoyable.To summarise my thoughts, if you couldn’t tell, this was a 5 star read for me. There’s just something about the way Victoria Schwab constructs a story that just hooks me. I’ve yet to be let down by any of her writing. She manages to create a captivating atmosphere, engaging characters and an adventurous plot, flawlessly. Despite the ‘creepy’ premise of this story, I had fun with this. I truly recommend this novel to both those of the middle grade age, and anyone else who loves a good ghost story, or anyone who fancies an adventure with a strange little girl and her best pal. Another Outstanding novel from Queen Schwab.
2515487040	“Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?”Trigger warning: A lot of focus around death, in particular the death of children. Schwab has finally entered the world of middle-grade and I couldn't be more pleased about it. I'm a huge middle-grade fan and I'm always going on about how many people are missing out on fantastic stories that have been coming out lately, just because they get caught up in the age recommendation. City of Ghostsis one of the those stories that just might convince you that maybe middle-grade isn't for little babies. Hopefully Schwab can help you see the light!I'll admit went into this book with very high expectations. City of Ghostswas one of my top most anticipated reads this year. Also Schwab wrote it, I think it's ok to have high expectations when going into a book written by this queen! She just has such a way with words, I'm think she might really be an alien - no human could write that beautifully! The more work I am lucky enough to discover, the more I fall in love with her writing. This is no exception to the rule. The book focuses on our main protagonist, Cassidy, who had an accident awhile back - one of an almost fatal nature. Cassidy was luckily saved and pulled from her almost fate, but she came back different and with a new friend. Like in the Sixth Sense, she can now see dead people. That makes things a little difficult on her social life but she does have a best friend, who happens to be dead, named Jacob. These characters are a lot of fun. I really loved that Cassidy is brave, curious, loyal, and at times very flawed. This girl makes a lot of mistakes but it just makes her all the more endearing. Jacob, on the other hand, is more cautious and protective but has a sassy sense of humor. I fell in love with both of them instantly. They also make many Potter references so how could you not eat these two right up?!?!? Potter references are pretty much the surest way to get me on your side. OH MY GOD, can it be real? Do we really have a middle-grade book where the author didn't ship the parents off to some unknown place, didn't kill them off and didn't make them out to be complete monsters?! Hallelujah! I was starting to lose faith that this was even possible anymore in middle-grade. Cassidy's parents are present, loving and completely kooky, the best way possible. Her mother is an eccentric whose enthusiasm for everything is addictive and her father is very focused on science and how to explain why everything is happening. They bounce off of each other very well. Oh, did I mention they also happen to be ghost hunters? They are filming a show where they go to the most historical haunted places on the map and explore. Obviously, this is going to create some issues for someone who can see dead people everywhere. We also have a malevolent ghost woman who has the freaky knack of stealing children and no one ever hears from them again. I loved her backstory and she was the perfect balance to this story to give you a little jolt of creepy. I won't say too much about her because it's best you let her story unravel as you read along. I've been asked several times if this book is scary. That is honestly really hard to answer since I have no idea what everyone's definition of that is. I would say that it's unsettling at times and creepy. If you have children that are easily scared then this one might be too much but it's pretty tame compared to a lot of the spooky middle-grade books out there. I highly recommend this one and I hope some other authors such as Marissa Meyer and Leigh Bardugo jump on the middle-grade wagon and grace us with a story as well.
7068033246	Nice atmospheric ghost-story for teens.Dark adventure of a girl who can see dead and her ghost-friend in gloomy Edinburgh (though rain wasn’t mentioned often enough to give justice to this city). Interesting lore, a lot mentions of Harry Potter, venturesome adventure and all-understanding adults that let the underaged fight evil unattended. Perfect combination for such a book, though adults would find it naive and sometimes oversimplified.
2528802196	I swear, it doesn’t matter what kind of book Schwab writes, whether it’s middle grade, young adult or adult fiction, it’s all absolutely freaking brilliant. And this book proves that middle grade novels aren’t just for children, heck, I’m an adult and some of my favourite books are middle grade novels, this one included! I’m so in love with this story, everything about it was so fantastic and I enjoyed it just as much on my second read through. Although I would change one tiny thing and it’s why it went from a five star read my first time to a four star read this time. Cassidy, our main character, is a big Harry Potter fan and there are many references to the novels and movies throughout. And anything to do with Harry Potter just leaves a sour taste in my mouth after finding out what a horrible human being Rowling is. Now I know Schwab in no way supports Rowling’s views and this was written before Rowling’s behaviour truly came to light but I still cringed every time it came up. That aside, it was spooky and had its claws sunk into me right from the very beginning despite having read it before. I could babble on and on about how much I loved this story but I’ll leave it at that. Read it yourself and read it to your kids, it’s the perfect ghost story for everyone!
2255692820	AWESOMENESS OVERLOAD.4.5/5 ★
2388842813	Victoria Schwab is really great and so is this book.
2249900980	Surprisingly enough, I loved this one? I didn't enjoy Schwab's other series, ADSOM and I think it's because this is MG & the ADSOM series was adult. Previously, I didn't enjoy ADSOM as much as I predicted because of hard-to-read and slow it was, but Schwab's work was so much more fast-paced and easy to read in this one. When I was younger, I used to be afraid of the monster in the closet. I couldn't go to sleep until my dad came in, threw open the closet door, and showed me it was empty. Crossing the veil is like opening the closet door. Of course, the difference is, monsters aren't real. The closet was always empty. The Veil... not so much. ⟶ so what is this about? Cass, our main character, is an In-Betweener who can go into the Veil (In-Between) and see ghosts that are trapped there. She can do this because of an accident where she almost died from drowning. However, a ghost saved her— Jacob, her best friend, and now she "has a foot in both worlds of the living and dead." Her parents are a "ghost-hunting" team who get a new documentary about ghosts and they head to Edinburgh, Scotland, which has a lot more specters/ghosts than her previous home in America. ⟶ pros I absolutely loved the relationship between Jacob and Cass. Cass has only had Jacob as a friend since she was young, and they've made up "rules" for their friendship that include things like "never leaving each other behind." Jacob can read Cass' mind, which I thought was a cool (albeit intrusive) aspect of their relationship. Since he can read her mind, she doesn't need to speak out loud and therefore communicate through thoughts. Jacob doesn't acknowledge the thought. He just rolls onto his stomach and starts reading whatever comic I left open on the bed. He spends a few seconds trying to will the page to turn before I reach over and do it for him.Something I noticed was how everyone in Scotland was so much more casual about specters or ghosts than in America. For example, people sometimes just casually talk about their dead friends as if they're still there with them. I'm not sure if people actually do act like this in the real Scotland, though? Regardless, I love settings outside of America, and it was interesting to see this contrast & how it added to the story.I really loved all of our friendly ghost characters. They were so sweet and I'd totally want to meet Mr. Weathershire irl!! ⟶ cons While I love that this wasn't set in America, it was kind of annoying when our main character was transitioning to being in Scotland and her reactions to the different vocabulary there. Cass scoffed at how Scotland called "fries" "chips" and the "elevator" the "lift." That's such a Classic American Take which was sooo frustrating to see. Different regions have different words and that doesn't mean their vocabulary is inferior to ours.I look up, confused. "These aren't chips.""Sure they are," says Mom with a devious grin, and I realize this is yet another one of those things that got lost in translation."Um, no," I insist. "These are fries. Chips come in a bag." I'm also disappointed that the cat didn't play more of a role in the story tbh? Like Mel, I wish that the cat in the cover was replaced with Jacob. But it's also not just the cover that was slightly misleading— in the author's note at the beginning, where Schwab lists some of the components of this story, she lists the cat before Jacob. And the cat was only mentioned about five times in this story, while Jacob is prevalent the whole story?Besides this, I feel that Schwab added too many unnecessary Harry Potter references. Harry Potter was mentioned at least four times, and it wasn't even a passing line for each. It was about a paragraph each time it was mentioned. It felt like Schwab was trying to be relatable but honestly it felt way too in-your-face and it's not as if Harry Potter or JK Rowling (an abuser-supporting author) need any promotion? ⟶ all in all This was really an entertaining read! Now that I've seen more of Schwab's work, I want to check out her young adult titles such as This Savage Song and The Archived. Hopefully they'll be more readable and well-paced than ADSOM.I'm really glad I picked this one up at BookCon!Trigger and content warnings for ableist language, context of burning to death, mention of drowning, mention of freezing to death, kidnapping/abduction, and death (mainly children).// buddy read with this specter and this other specter
5099583595	I think I am TOO OLD for this book. The writing is so easy to get into and the story is so easy to follow. I feel this is the perfect series for the beginners to start with.I was expecting a bit more thrill/spooky vibes cuz we are talking about hunting ghosts here with professional ghost hunters and a ghost character here. But now I am so disappointed.Good middle grade book with contemporary fiction style of writing. It would have been better as a contemporary one. I cannot get the spooky or the ghost vibes. And I was sincerely looking forward to that when I picked up this book.
2025756562	after months of being in a huge reading slump I managed to read an entire book in four hours straight. very proud of myselfalso, this book was so much fun to read!
2030011908	SO GOOD!I freaking love Victoria Schwab, she’s the most talented human and I love all of the books by her I’ve read so far. I can’t wait to read everything she’s ever published and will publish in the future.This one was both cute and spooky! It reminded me a lot of Coraline by Neil Gaiman, so definitely pick this one up if you love Coraline.My favorite thing in this book was Jacob. He’s so CUTE! I can’t wait to see more of him and Cassidy together because I love their relationship. Friendship goals!I also really liked the premise of this ghostly fantasy world. (view spoiler)[Ghosts practically live in another dimension and can’t look at themselves in a mirror, how cool is that. (hide spoiler)]Cassidy’s death was also so well described that that was actually one of my favorite scenes of the book.My least favorite thing was the Raven because I felt like something was missing in that conflict, but it probably was because this is middle grade and it looks like the series is going to be kinda episodic with every book in a different city.I’m moving to Scotland in a week (yaaay!! And helppp!) and Victoria did an amazing job describing Edinburgh, so I already know a bit about the city and Scotland. The entire book is so atmospheric and feels real, and I’m glad they decided to add a map of the city because firstly, it was greatly helpful, and secondly it adds a lot to the atmosphere and lets you fall completely in the city even if you’re not personally visiting. My advice is to also look at pictures of the various places on google.
3401836327	هر بار که arc یک کتاب رو تموم می‌کنم در حالی‌که چشمم میسوزه و دارم از خواب می‌میرم به خودم میگم این دیگه آخریشه تو خیلی مشغله داری ولی باز وقتی پیشنهاد کار میاد، قولم یادم می‌ره و... :))))× شهر ارواح، انتشارات ویدا، ترجمه محمدصالح نورانی‌زادهمن تعریف ویکتوریا شواب رو خیلی شنیده بودم اما تا به‌حال فرصت نکرده بودم ازش کتاب بخونم.کتاب حس نوستالژیک خاصی برای من داشت، چون یادآور قصه‌های آر‌.ال‌.استاینی بود که ده_یازده سالگی از ویدا می‌خوندم منتها با داستانی دخترونه‌تر و البته غیر-ترسناک. شخصیت اصلی یک دختر پاترهد گریفیندوریه و کتاب ارجاعاتی به مجموعه هری‌پاتر داشت که خب باز اونم خیلی یادآور دوران کودکی‌م بود.به‌طور کلی دوسش داشتم با این‌که پلات تکراری بود و از قصه‌هایی منشا می‌گیره که همه می‌دونیم و می‌شناسیم. فکر کنم اگر نوجوان ۱۰_۱۲ ساله دم دست‌تون داشته باشید از خوندنش هیجان‌زده بشه.
2833447342	Very similar vibes to the Archived though.
2521358012	3.5 ⭐️
2528280979	"Stories have power. So long as you believe them". Reseña en español al final. So I'm getting into this whole Halloween vibe for October and City of Ghosts was the perfect light read to pick for a start. Here we follow Cass, a girl who almost drowned and was saved by her now BFF Jacob, which so happens to be a ghost. Since that near death experience, Cass has been able to see and touch the world of the dead. So whenever she feels a ghost nearby, she can literally pull the Veil that separates the living world from the dead one and enter that ghost's memories and in-between. One day, her parents, that are paranormal investigators, get offered a TV Show and the first location is Edinburghh, the most haunted city in the world. When the family gets there, Cass starts to feel that the Veil there weighs a lot more than back home, and that there are really dark thinks lurking behind it. I actually love how natural this story felt, like it just flowed and no matter how dark it could get sometimes, it kept luring me in. Cass and Jacob make such good protagonists that I couldn't help but think how cool it would be to have a ghost friend. When you start reading and getting into the book, there are a million questions that come to your mind. Why did Jacob save her? Why was he there? Who was he before being a ghost? Is there a purpose for Cass abilities? Can I go to Edinburgh? And some of that questions are answered through the book, but not all, and that's what kept me hooked to the story. I wanna know so much more. And not only about Cass and Jacob, but about Lara, this oh-so-British girl they meet at the inn they're staying. Now, I must admit that, at the very beginning, the book felt rather eventless, but once they're in Scotland eveything changes. You can really tell how much Victoria Schwab loves that city, for the descriptions and the whole aura she depicts of the city is truly phenomenal. That whole scenario makes everything darker and more dangerous for Cass, who is very mature and all, but is still a little girl who can be harmed and pulled forever into the land of the dead. One of the things I loved more about the book was the lore and how locals treated it as facts. Oh, the wonderful people of Scotland. All myths, all stories, all curses... they're real for them. And they indeed take form thanks to Cass's ability to see beyond the Veil. I was actually quite surprised because, despite this being a middle grade book, there are some scenes that are rather gruesome and bloody. Which I loved, don't get me wrong. I just didn't expect them. There is a twist, which I did not see coming at all! It remind me of a Laura Gallego book I read once and I was shocked. I mean, it made total sense, you can not deal with darkness and ghosts all the time without its consecuences, but still.... wow. And this line is to fangirl about all the Harry Potter references and geekiness that's laid all over the book. V, you made a Potterhead really happy here. Now I want to read the second book, which I'm not sure if it's the last. I don't know if this is supposed to be a duology or a trilogy, but what I do know is that we're up to a sad finale. I feel it.♥♥♥”Las historias tienen poder siempre que creas en ellas”.Estoy entrando en toda esta vibe de Halloween para Octubre y City of Ghosts fue la mejor lectura ligera que pude escoger para empezar. Aquí seguimos a Cass, una chica que casi se ahoga y fue salvada por Jacob, quien ahora es su mejor amigo, que resulta que es un fantasma. Desde esa experiencia cercana a la muerte, Cass ha sido capaz de ver y tocas el mundo de los muertos. Así que cada que siente que hay un fantasma cerca, puede literalmente halar el Velo que separa el mundo de los vivos del de los muertos y entrar a los recuerdos y al limbo de ese fantasma. Un día, a sus padres, que son investigadores paranormales, les ofrecen un show de televisión y la primera locación es Edimburgo, la ciudad más embrujada del mundo. Cuando la familia llega allí, Cass empieza a sentir que el Velo pesa mucho más allí que en casa y que hay cosas muy oscuras rondando tras él.Amé mucho cuán natural se sintió esta historia, como que sencillamente fluía y, sin importar qué tan oscura se tornara algunas veces, seguía enganchándome. Cass y Jacob son tan buenos protagonistas que no pude evitar pensar en lo genial que sería tener un amigo fantasma.Cuando empiezas a leer y a entrar a la historia, hay un millón de preguntas que se te ocurren. ¿Por qué Jacob la salvó? ¿Por qué estaba allí? ¿Quién era antes de ser fantasma? ¿Las habilidades de Cass tienen un propósito? ¿Puedo ir a Edimburgo? Y sí, algunas de esas preguntas son respondidas a lo largo del libro, pero no todas, y eso fue lo que me mantuvo leyendo. Quiero saber mucho más. No sólo acerca de Cass y Jacob, sino también de Lara, esta chica súper británica que conocen en la posada en la que se están hospedando. Ahora, debo admitir que, el comienzo, el libro se sentía bastante plano, sin grandes acontecimientos, pero una vez llegan a Escocia todo cambia. Realmente se nota lo mucho que ama Victoria Schwab esa ciudad, pues las descripciones y toda el aura que nos pinta de la ciudad es realmente fenomenal. Todo ese escenario hace que las cosas se ven más oscuras y peligrosas para Cass, que es muy madura y todo, pero sigue siendo una niña pequeña a la que pueden lastimar o a la que pueden arrastrar permanentemente a la tierra de los muertos. Una de las cosas que amé más del libro fue el folklore y cómo los locales lo tomaban como una verdad. Oh, la maravillosa gente de Escocia. Todos los mitos, las historias, las maldiciones… son reales para ellos. Y, de hecho, sí que toman forma gracias a las habilidades de Cass de ver más allá del Velo. De hecho, estaba muy sorprendida porque, aunque este es un libro middle grade, hay algunas escenas espantosas y sangrientas. Y las amé, no me malentiendan, sólo que no las esperaba. ¡Hay un giro que no vi venir para nada! Me recordó a un libro de Laura Gallego que leí una vez y estaba en shock. Es decir, tenía todo el sentido del mundo, no puedes mezclarte con la oscuridad y los fantasmas todo el tiempo y no temer las consecuencias, pero igual… wow.Y nada, esta línea es para ser una fangirl sobre todas las referencias geeks de Harry Potter que hay en todo el libro. V, hiciste muy feliz a una Potterhead. Ahora quiero leer el segundo libro, que no estoy segura de si será el último. No sé si se supone que esto es una bilogía o una trilogía, pero lo que sí sé es que tendremos un final triste. Lo presiento.
2282354088	5/5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ "People think that ghosts only come out at night, or on Halloween, when the world is dark and the walls are thin. But the truth is, ghosts are everywhere. In the bread aisle at your grocery store, in the middle of your grandmother's garden, in the front seat on your bus. Just because you can't see them doesn't mean they aren't there."Pros: ❇️I think it's safe to say that I loved everything about this! Victoria Schwab has done it again! The writing in this was brilliant! I loved the setting! The friendship was everything! The HP reference's really got me! And I've since decided that I too would like to own a cat called Grim! This is definitely a gush review, and I'm not entirely sure anything I'm saying is making sense right now, but I loved this-start to finish, and I would definitely recommend picking this one up if it's on your TBR! Cons:❇️The only "con" I have for this is that it ended seemingly as fast as it started (meaning that it was over before I knew it, and I wish that it were longer, but there's going to be more, so I won't complain). Final Thoughts/Comments:❇️Even though you could absolutely enjoy reading this book throughout the year, I'm glad I decided to read it for myself this October! I tend to gravitate towards darker reading material in the fall, and this was the perfect "spooky" read (giving you all of the Halloween vibes without any violence or gore). I'm looking forward to seeing what's next for Cassidy; as I'm sure her next adventure will be just as exciting as the last!
3854243890	I am 27 years old. I am not the target audience for City of Ghosts. Keeping that in mind, I read this book through a middle grade lens and hoped for the best..That being said, I loved it. This is about a young girl named Cassidy Blake who is best friends with a ghost named Jacob. Cassidy's parents happen to be ghost hunters (who funnily enough cannot see Jacob, and don't really believe him to be real). This book follows the Blake family as they travel to Scotland to film their 'ghost-hunters' tv show. Shocking surprise; ghosts aren't always as friendly as Cassidy's BFF Jacob and paranormal chaos ensues. Listen, one of my favorite TV shows from when I was a kid was a cartoon called Danny Phantom, and this gave me strong nostalgic vibes from that series. Middle school me would have adored City of Ghosts. It would have been my jam. Is this book flawless? No. But it sure was a fun and I'm looking forward to reading the next in the series.
2350443750	4.5 starsThis book was so fun! I loved Cassidy! I loved Jacob! I loved all the Harry Potter references! I loved being terrified witless by a middle grade book that I didn't think would be that scary!This book just made me happy. (When it wasn't scaring me to death) It was funny and sweet and thoroughly enjoyable.I loved the setting, and the way Schwab made it come alive! I adored the freaky plot! I just... really enjoyed this book. It's so fun and creepy (or else I'm just a scaredy-cat), and really worth a read. ***Initial Reaction, November 8, 2018*** I LOVED THIS BOOK! I admit, I was the tiniest bit worried I wouldn't love it, seeing as it IS middle grade, but this was GENUINELY really enjoyable? Like sure, Cassidy was a bit young, but this book was actually REALLY ENJOYABLE.I might lower my rating by a star? I dunno. I tend to rate middle grade differently than I rate YA though, so I might leave it at five.
2255752377	3.5 stars. This story was a super cute middle grade! I really enjoyed Cassidy and Jacob’s friendship and Grim the cat. Unfortunately at this point in my life, this specific middle grade was not what I was needing. I’m trash for anything Schwab writes, so I wanted to read it asap, but I think I needed something with more depth. I think a younger audience will love this though! And all the Harry Potter references were great! Also, the setting was excellent. 👻👻👻👻
2516019555	I know it took me a long time to finish this book, but it is not because I did not enjoy it. For the past week, and the next 2 week, I am on my education prac. Meaning that I will be acting as a teacher, also meaning that I have very little time to read. I enjoyed this book so much. When I did get the chance to pick it up I couldn't put it down. Highly recommend
2906196962	3.75This was a really great read, this is a middle-grade novel following a girl named Cass. Cass was drowned and now is able to go back in forth between the living and the dead, known as the Veil. Her parents are filming a documentary series about the world's most haunted places, so they travel to Scotland and it's about the adventures there. Cass also has a best friend who is a ghost. Overall the writing was great, the story was quick and engaging, and it was well explained. I grew attached to the characters and am looking forward to picking up the sequel. Was pleasantly surprised by this.
2348531794	YAAAAAASThis book was SO GOOD. I really don't have anything at all negative to say at all. Victoria Schwab just keeps getting better and better.
2029042799	♦ Video Review ♦City of Ghosts is another wonderful story by Victoria Schwab, filled with lovable characters, intricate world building and an atmosphere that's both beautiful and creepy. “Once there was a woman, a beauty with fair skin and black hair, and a little boy who loved to wander.” I think it's important for me to preface this with saying that I normally don't read Middle Grade. The only reason I picked this book up is because it's by my favourite author. But I really enjoyed myself.If you're interested in this book but normally not a Middle Grade reader, I'd still definitely recommend it. It's just important that you adjust your expectations. It deals with very different themes than Adult or Young Adult but it is great to see what a distinctive voice Schwab has and how it transcends through books for different target audiences.It is also very clear how much Schwab adores Edinburgh and how she was craving to write a story set in this city. The love for this city was pouring out of the pages and it made the setting really wonderful and vivid.The paranormal elements were very well done and the world building thoroughly thought through, as expected from a Schwab novel. Whatever you end up thinking about her worlds, they always have a solid foundation.The combination of the intricate world building, the love for Edinburgh and the amazing writing style, made for an incredible atmosphere. “She searched all night, and all day, and she froze, or should have, but instead, something broke inside her.” The main character, Cassidy, is an absolute delight. I loved reading from her perspective and following her on her adventures with her ghost friend, Jacob. The friendship between these two was lovely. I like when a writer is able to show you how much two characters mean to each other, without them ever being vocal about it, and it's so clear in the friendship between Cass and Jacob!I also loved Cassidy's parents and their relationship to Cass. Even though her mum and dad have only small parts in this story, it's easy to tell their characteristics and I had a lot of sympathy for them. The way their obsession with ghosts was represented seemed very respectful and like they genuinely cared, instead of it being ridiculed in some way.There's also another side character, Lara, who is absolutely bad ass and I loved the development of her friendship with Cass. I really hope we get to see much more of Lara in the sequel!Overall I had an amazing time reading City of Ghosts. It is an absolutely delightful, creepy Middle Grade read that I'd recommend to readers of all ages! “Watch and listen, see and know. This is what you are.” ♦ Booktube Channel ♦ Twitter ♦ Instagram ♦I received an ARC of this through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review!
2438770571	Actual rating: close to a 4.5! I loved the heck out of this book! I read it in 2 sittings (2 because I didn’t wanna finish it bc I was loving it tbh) and it was just incredible! I haven’t really had too much luck with Victoria Schwab before, I liked the first ADSOM book but that’s it really, so I didn’t really have too many expectations going into this. I did thoroughly enjoy this book! I loved the plot, the premise, the setting (!! ♥.♥) everything!! I really can’t wait for a 2nd book hopefully! I’m pretty sure this helped slow my reading slump and I think I’m excited to dive into another book now, this was such an easy read I think it’s kickstarted me back into reading!
2493163752	Reread x2 This is my second time reading this book and it felt like I was reading it for the first time. Once again, I fell in love with the characters and the adventure. Cassidy and Jacob are the definition of friendship. They have one of the purest and most beautiful friendships I’ve read. “Jacob,” I say. “He saved my life,” I add.Findley’s eyebrows go up. “Did he, now? Well, aren’t you lucky.” I cut a glance at Jacob. I am.Jacob blushes and looks down at the table.” I feel like this is one of the most underrated YA books. I think that’s because it’s categorized for “children”, but in my opinion it can be read by all ages. I like this series a lot because it doesn’t have too much drama and angst, which for me is really good because I don’t have to be suffering over characters all the time. If you like paranormal, I really recommenced this series. It’s really good and fast to read and once again, the characters? They’re amazing. “People think that ghosts only come out at night, or on Halloween, when the world is dark and the walls are thin. But the truth is, ghosts are everywhere. In the bread aisle at your grocery store, in the middle of your grandmother’s garden, in the front seat on your bus.Just because you can’t see them doesn’t mean they aren’t there.” _______________________________________________This was a really good book. I can’t wait for the next one.
2028795913	"There's a difference between wanting to stay and being too afraid to let go." Oh my lord, this book was a bucket of fun.City of Ghost was honestly such a spooky and mysterious read. I had actual chills while reading it, but it was so much fun exploring Scotland and learning parts of it’s history, especially all its wonderfully scary ghost stories.I loved the story and the characters and all the photography metaphors. I loved Cassie's parents and the whole idea of their TV show, and I especially loved all of the Harry Potter references.I really want to visit Edinburgh now.Cassidy and Jacob’s friendship may be the most purest and sweetest thing in the entire world.Cassidy is such a sweet and curious character. She makes some dumb decisions, but it’s all because of her absolutely selfless nature.But okay, can someone please tell me how Schwab always manages to write some of the best cinnamon roll characters??I have honestly fallen in love with all the males she writes and Jacob is no different.I am so dang curious about him.While I cannot say it’s my favorite book of hers (my love for Kell Maresh is endless), it was really such a unique and lovely story filled with adventure and friendship.I cannot wait for book two! "I remind myself that every good story needs twists and turns. Every heroine needs an adventure."
2047362504	I enjoyed this a lot! I just wish it was longer though! I've never been to Edinburgh but this book makes it feel like I have! I need to go now for sure! It made me want to go and explore and I love the city already! I loved Cass and I really hope Victoria writes more about her and her ghostly advntures! The end is set up in quite an open way that I think it might be possible! This is a perfect spooky read especially for Autumn/Halloween time!
3015464543	“Sometimes help is a place and sometimes it’s a person, and sometimes it’s a bit of both.” This book is a perfect example of the kind of middle-grade you can still enjoy as an adult. Simple, but still childlike poetic, prose; lovely characters and horrible villains. Everything is so pure and wholesome, but there is also a story, charged with many different emotions: loss, fear, happiness, love; and values: friendship, family, discovery etc.I've had mixed experiences with V. Schwab; I loved Vicious but I wasn't a fan of the Shades of Magic series. This book tilted the scale in her favour, and made me want to give another chance to A darker Shade of Magic and maybe actually complete the trilogy. Very enjoyable read, perfect for Halloween! :)
2540281879	As soon as I started reading this book, I knew it was for me. Ghosts, near-death experiences, and adventures in Scotland? Count me in. 👻 The full review is up on my blog! 👻MY RATING: almost 4 spooky ghosts 👻👻👻👻Overall, it was a nice book, but because I felt like there was something missing the whole time and it was a bit short for my taste, I’m giving it 3.75 stars (almost 4, but not quite).MY THOUGHTS:This book was a nice combination of cute and creepy: the characters were likeable, and the premise was spooky enough to count as either an October read or a Summer read (since it was set in June).I loved the idea of Cassidy’s best friend being a ghost, and I also loved her relationship with Jacob in general. That’s best friend material right there!But while I did like the overall story, I felt like the plot execution was a bit too short for me. I needed more descriptions, more narration and detail.For example, I wanted a few more scenic descriptions when Cass and her family arrived in Scotland. I visited Edinburgh a few months ago, to almost every place where Cass visited in the story, and I felt like the narration didn’t quite do it justice. If you’ve just read (or want to read) City of Ghosts and are having a hard time imagining Edinburgh, here are some of my personal pictures for visual aid! (You can see more of these pictures on my blog) In the end, this was a perfect little book for me to read quickly during the Fall season. It was definitely more of a Middle Grade book, as the main characters are all in their tweens, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.I’m very much looking forward to the next book in the series!
2490231551	this was absolutely perfect.I want a friend like Jacob ☹️
2334892415	3,5 stars!A really cute, fun read! It felt a bit rushed but the story was fascinating and engaging.
3940201136	Realmente me ha gustado mucho este primer libro! Se puede decir que te engancha sin darte cuenta. De momento no le doy más nota, a la espera de leer el resto de los libros.
2454761283	★★★★★Just because you can't see them doesn't mean they aren't there.Cassidy Blake's story of ghosts, the Veil, and the women in red was captivating. And in a way mystical. For such a short book, it packs a lot in there. It was amazing.I always worry that I sometimes give books five stars too often. Not because I don't want to enjoy books, but because sometimes I feel like I should be more critical (for no reason other than the fact that analyzing stories critically and thus rating them as such is important for understanding storytelling). But I tend to rate books on how much I enjoy them and not just how perfect they are. But in this case, I can't think of a single thing I didn't love in this book or anything that could possibly be wrong.The pacing was perfect, it eased you in by jumping straight into what's happening, and then it just continued to escalate. And even when large conflicts weren't occurring, everything else was so interesting and there was so much mystery that needed to be unraveled that you hardly even noticed. The characters were all wonderful, and I'm so sad we probably won't see some of them in the next books much (not a spoiler for those who haven't read it). And the world building was spectacular. The Veil had an eeriness to it that was described so wonderfully. Everything about this story was wonderful.This is the perfect book for October, and it's such a short and easy read you find yourself at the end before you even have time to register that you've started. I can't say enough about how amazing this book was. It was so much more than what I ever would have expected (which I honestly wasn't even sure what to expect going into it). Victoria Schwab has done it again.
2863058876	3.75Una historia que me prometía mucho y de cierta forma lo logró.La portada es irresistible y la sinopsis me hizo querer leerlo muchisímo.Victoria es una autora que me gusta leer, su estilo es algo que se disfruta mucho y en City of ghosts no fue la excepción.La lectura es muy ligera, y la historia se va tejiendo de una manera muy buena, el único pero que le puedo poner es que me esperaba un poco más; será por que me encantó Our Dark Duet.Las comparaciones en este aspecto creo que no tienen nada que ver, y para ser sincera es una historia que sí entretiene, mantiene ese misterio y además nos lleva por lugares tétricos y situaciones que nos envuelven en este mundo que radica en el velo.Hay muchas cosas que quedaron abiertas y por eso espero poder leer pronto su continuación.
2549312480	** spoiler alert ** Full review posted Embrace your strange, dear daughter. Where’s the fun in being normal?” My first spooky book of the month and I guess it was okay. Truth is I didn’t love the book as much as I expected but I don’t think it’s the book’s fault, I think it’s mine for not keeping in mind that this is a middle grade book and because of that the author couldn’t go all the way; it felt tame compared to Victoria Schwab other books and I caught myself wanting more and needing more.The story revolves around Cassidy Blake, a twelve years old girl who had a near death experience and after she survived the accident that almost killed her, she gained the ability to sense the dead and to walk between their world and the world of the living. She also has a ghost friend who is linked to her through her accident; a friend only she can see and talk too. Once there was a woman, a beauty with fair skin and black hair, and a little boy who loved to wander. Cassidy’s parents are also ghost hunters get this opportunity to shoot a documentary about ghosts and they’re going to be travelling the world and seeking the most hunted cities starting with Scotland, Edinburgh and through this journey, Cassidy will learn the truth behind her power and the person she’s meant to be.So like I said this is a middle grade book, a genre that I don’t know very well which make me feel like I don’t have the knowledge to review this book properly but I’ll try as much as I can to keep it fair.The book is spooky and atmospheric and a little bit eerie and yet I was unmoved by all of that because it didn’t have the intensity I was looking for. I know if the twelve year old me has read this book, she would be terrified for life so maybe if you look at it from a different perspective then you’ll find that it has done its job. For most people, life and death are pretty black-and-white. But something happened that day when Jacob pulled me out of the water. I guess I pulled him out of somewhere, too, and we got tangled up, and now I’m not all alive and he’s not all dead. Clearly I’m out of my depth here but the truth is the book has the potential to be something great considering that there is a sequel coming, maybe we’ll get to delve deeper into the mystery that is Jacob, Cassidy ghost friend and maybe we’ll get to witness how that will affect the relationship between them both. I already like the dynamic that exist between them and I find it layered and complex and I’m genuinely invested of what’s going to happen next because the book made me curious about the secrets Jacob is hiding from Cassidy. The living may take strength from love and hope, but the dead grow strong on darker things. On pain and anger and regret. Anyway, frankly, there is nothing wrong with the book, it just the genre is not for me but I’ll definitely be reading the second one because I’m already in the world of ghost hunting, may as well, see it to the end.********************************Before readingCity of Ghosts is my first October spooky read; it has ghosts, it is written by Victoria Schwab and it takes place in Edinburgh. So yeah,
4136702393	Historie owiane mrokiem i tajemnicą. Miasta pełne cienia, historie pełne zagadek. Ulice pełne duchów. Przecież najbardziej zachwyca nas to, co nie istnieje. Światło księżyca wpadające przez okno. Przewracam kolejne strony. Na zegarze północ, godzina duchów. A ja nadal tutaj, w łożku, przy książce. Zachwycająca się opowieścią. •„Miasto duchów” to opowieść, która przede wszystkim niezwykle mnie zachwyciła, wciągnęła i urzekła swoim klimatem. To książka, która w pełni trafiła do mnie od pierwszych stron, aby wraz z kolejnymi rozdziałami jeszcze bardziej mnie oczarować. Odnalazłam w niej wszystko, co uwielbiam w literaturze, a zwłaszcza tej dziecięcej. Wspaniały pomysł, wspaniali bohaterowie i wspaniała historia, o której będę pamiętać przez długi czas i na pewno wiele razy do niej wracać. Wyjątkowa książka o jeszcze bardziej wyjątkowych bohaterach. Ich relacja jest niewątpliwie czymś, co wyróżnia tę książkę. Zarówno główna bohaterka, jak i jej przyjaciel to postacie świetnie przedstawione. Barwne, ciekawe, które potrafimy zrozumieć. Uwielbiam ten niepokój oraz niepewność, jakie towarzyszyły mi podczas lektury. Do ostatnich stron wyczekiwałam zaskoczenia tak ogromnie, że nie mogłam oderwać się od lektury. Jak zwykle Schwab zachwyciła mnie swoim stylem i tym jak sprawnie potrafi dostosować go do odbiorcy, zachowując przy tym magię. Z wielkim utęsknieniem czekam ma kolejne tomy, bo już brakuje mi tej historii. Przykuwająca uwagę, klimatyczna książka o starych opowieściach oraz nowych tajemnicach.
2271064099	This one was fun!Meet Cassidy Blake, a young girl who nearly died but was saved by a ghost named Jacob. Now Jacob lives in her world and the two are the best of friends. This, of course, makes Cassidy a little of an outcast. But that's ok because her parents are supernatural experts, so this is almost normal behavior. When her parents are offered a TV show based on their findings, the family heads off to Scotland where Cassidy confront more ghosts than she knows what to do with and also the very mystery as to why she is the way that she is.For a middle-grade book, this held some good spooks. The setting was creepy (and made me want to go to Scotland even more than I already do) and Schwab does an excellent job in bringing to life the world of the dead. Ghost stories have been around forever and I absolutely love them. It's nice to see that the tradition still continues and showcases new ideas. I also really enjoyed the relationship between Cassidy and Jacob. Schwab casts just enough doubt over why Jacob is here, though, and I find myself worrying about what's to come. Is he really just a passive ghost? Where did he come from? What happened to him? And can Cassidy trust him? I have a feeling this will be a big part of the second book. Sad that I have to wait a year to find out!
3266584295	3.5 starsTook me almost a month to finish, not because it wasn't good, but with COVID19 I am having trouble focusing.Someday I will get back to this book for a reread and the series, but that will have to wait for now.
2677136021	4.0 StarsThis was a surprisingly entertaining middle grade urban fantasy. I rarely read children books as an adult, but this one completely worked for me. I really love reading stories about ghost hunters and mediators. The main character was smart and sassy with a wonderful platonic friendship with a friendly ghost. I would recommend this middle grade book to readers of all ages.
2269022574	This was so good! Hope to get more answers in the next book.
2705812850	Esperaba que fuera un libro que se volcara más a la fantasía, aunque me encontré con algo más oscuro, más sombrío. No es un libro de terror, pero le pega al palo. Es un juvenil que me dejó muy a gusto, me entretuvo y se me hizo rápido de leer. La historia engancha muchísimo, es amena y se mantiene un clima de suspenso y misterio durante todo su recorrido. Lo que me resultó más interesante fue la parte más folklórica, donde se cuentan algunas leyendas escocesas de fantasmas y otras apariciones tenebrosas, creo que le sumó mucho a la trama.Mi único "meh" surgió con las constantes referencias a Harry Potter. La saga me encanta, tanto sus libros como las películas, sin embargo me pareció demasiado "teen" para el contexto que venía llevando la autora. No es algo necesariamente negativo, solo me pareció que estuvo un poco de más. Independientemente de eso, el resto me pareció muy interesante. Debo admitir que no conocía mucho sobre Victoria Schwab, este fue mi primer libro y la verdad es que me dejó una muy buena impresión
2399703990	This was super fun and just a little bit creepy, honestly I wish it was a little creepier but it’s MG so I get it.Cassidy and Jacob were super cute and lovable characters. I had fun gallivanting through the most haunted places in Edinburgh with them. The world and crossing the Veil concept was interesting though I do wish things were explained a little more. I don’t really have much to say about this because it was pretty simple and straight forward, which was to be expected because it’s MG. Simple put, it was sweet and fun. I did really love The Raven in Red. Nothing is creepier than a lady who steals children away in the night. So, yep, this was fun and I enjoyed it. It’s simple, easy and cute.————————————————————————BR with my main Italian bitch.
