1955391853	I don’t even know what to say. This book was such a flippin’ blast. https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co... Okay, that’s a little bit of a lie. I know the most important thing I have to say. First and foremost: I’M IN LOVE WITH HENRY TILNEY. SO FUNNY, smart, handsome, owns a cute house, and dare I say...surprisingly non bigoted?! He’s the best. But let me backtrack a bit. Northanger Abbey is Austen’s satire, and she pokes fun at gothic horror books by having her heroine, Catherine, believe she’s essentially in one. AND SO MUCH GOOD COMES OUT OF THIS. The satire is hilarious - there’s one moment, for example, when what Catherine believes is a ~spooky, ghastly scroll~ is really a list of the contents of a linen closet. But right when it’s about to stop being funny, and you’re getting just the teensiest bit annoyed at Catherine’s naïveté, it ends! She confesses to Henry, whose father she believes is a murderer, and he gently shoots her down while still being all, “I love you, girl.” It’s really great. AUSTEN IS A TALENT. That’s the wonderful bit about this satire, IMO. I don’t alwayssss love literary satire, because it gives me secondhand-embarrassment cringes. But this is satire within another narrative - a more typical Austen storyline. So it’s funny and biting, while also being cute and happy and having adorable characters and a lovely ending! Talk about a TOTAL win-win, amiright? There are also even MORE plus sides to this. Austen makes a lot of sweeping generalizations about “heroines” and plots and books, and they are all hysterically funny and insanely accurate. She also writes a few amazing defenses of fiction - isn’t that wild? While we’re out here with people trying to make others feel bad for liking YA, our brethren in Austen’s lifetime couldn’t even read novels without judgment. Call me crazy, but I’d rather someone insult my intellect for having read Sarah J. Maas than have to read 19th century TEXTBOOKS in order to be considered ~marriage material~. Bleh. Total nightmare, no? Let’s count our blessings and chill the hell out for one freaking second. But I digress. Let’s talk more about those characterssss. They are, in turn, perfectly hate-able and lovable. Hang on. I’ll explain. When people are all, “She’s a villain I love to hate!” I seriously never understand. I don’t ever love hating characters. It makes reading unpleasant, usually, even villains. Like Levana from The Lunar Chronicles, or whatever. I just hated her. I didn’t enjoy hating her. She got on my nerves and I was displeased whenever she showed up. But...Isabella and her brother in this book? Pretty hilarious. They’re super annoying - Isabella uses people, is self-obsessed, and lies all the time; her brother is a total self-serving asshole. But when sweet lil Catherine is utterly ignorant to their flaws? It’s really funny. The way Isabella’s dialogue is written in particular made me laugh a lot, genuinely. Do people actually laugh out loud while reading on the reg? But also there are characters who are so intensely lovable! (Especially my husband.) Catherine, for one thing. She could be a little irritating, because she’s SO immature sometimes, but she’s just, like, a good person to her core who is so kind to those around her. You can’t hate her. At least I couldn’t, and I hate most characters. But let’s talk more about bae. You can’t see me, but I actually just turned into a heart eyes emoji from the neck up. Henry Tilney is a charmer from the SECOND he shows up. The banter he has with Catherine...unreal. Austen outdoes herself. Now I wanna reread their meeting scene. Ugh. And ultimately, this is just a bananas well-written book. A real masterpiece. Some of Austen’s most famous quotes are from this book, and it totally makes sense why. Here are a couple fresh examples: “The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.” “There is nothing I would not do for those who are really my friends. I have no notion of loving people by halves, it is not my nature.” See what I mean? I just read this book and I already wanna pick it up again. Bottom line: Charming characters, hilarity, biting satire, gorgeous quotes...It’s Austen at her best. But when isn’t she at her best?
1181014925	Jane Austen’s novels are just about romance and naïve women. There just another telling of boy meets girl in an uninspiring way with a few social issues thrown in. Well, ashamed as I am to admit it, that is what I used to believe in my woefully idiotic ignorance. How foolish of me. Now that I’ve actually bothered to read one of her novels, because I had to for university purposes, I realise how stupid I was to actually think this. Jane Austen is one of, if not the, best novelists of all time. If you disbelieve me, and held a similar opinion to my own, then read one of her novels and find out for yourself. That being said though Catherine, the protagonist of this novel, is somewhat ignorant and naïve to the ways of the world; but, she had to be. Indeed, if not Austen would have been unable to achieve such an endearing comment on the absurdity of society, the role of women in that said society, and the ignorance toward the unpopular literary craft of the novel. How else if not though the eyes of an innocent young girl who cannot understand the mechanisms of these aspects of the world? Who when thrust into the pump room (a sort of ball room for dance and socialising) has virtually no idea how to behave. Catherine has an immeasurable misunderstanding of the intentions of others, and a misguided view that the world is like one of her beloved books: a romantic adventure with a little bit of popular gothic thrown in for excitement. She cannot comprehend the reasoning behind her friend, Isabella Thorpe’s, behaviour and how she is only leading her brother along; she cannot understand that Henry’s father is not a gothic villain, but a man in mourning with a harsh temper: her vision has become obscured."Catherine's blood ran cold with the horrid suggestions which naturally sprang from these words. Could it be possible? - Could Henry's father? - And yet how many were the examples to justify even the blackest suspicions!"This is achieved through a narration that is a work of genius. Austen has satirised the conventions of gothic literature by writing a semi-gothic novel herself that is focalised through the experience of Catherine. Catherine is well read, but only as far as the gothic genre allows. This has clouded her interpretation of the events that occur around her, consequently, life to her has become akin to the works by authors such as Radcliffe. This means that by the time that Catherine arrives at the abbey she expects it to be this place of utter darkness and dread; she expects to be a gothic castle and the home to a tyrannical gothic villain. However, when the veil is lifted and she realises that her life is in fact not a book and the motivations of the people in it are not what she thought them to be, the revelation of how foolish she has been dawns upon her. I’m not going to lie, I felt like Catherine at this point; I held a ridiculous opinion that when lifted allowed me to see the work of Austen for what it was: utter brilliance. I love Northanger Abbey; it is brilliant. Jane Austen is the master of her craft; her work is what she argued the novel to be:“Only some work in which the greatest powers of the mind are displayed, in which the most thorough knowledge of human nature, the happiest delineation of its varieties, the liveliest effusions of wit and humour, are conveyed to the world in the best-chosen language.”
4170290917	(2.5) Even knowing that this book was published after her death, that it was rewritten a few times and that it is meant as satiric take on the Gothic genre... I didn't really enjoy myself.Her writing is witty, the characters are as awful as she wanted to portray them but I didn't like the romance at all and was bored for half the book.I did watch the movie right after which I think was better. I don't say that often!
2983991666	Elizabeth may be the most beloved, & Emma may be the hated, and (of course) Elinor is the most sensible, but I personally think Catherine is the most relatable.We can't all be as witty and perceptive as Lizzie, and we hopefully aren't as meddling and silly as Emma. But Catherine? Well, she's somewhere in the middle of normal. She's not always as clever as she wishes, she's not the wealthiest heiress in the room, and she's not always sure of what she's doing. She's just...every girl who's ever gone to the big city and gotten a little dazzled by the wrong friends, overwhelmed by their imagination, and fallen in love with a handsome boy with a good sense of humor.Also, she loves a good gothic novel.Catherine seemed kind of silly and ignorant at first glance, but as the book goes on, you realize that it's just that she's young and trusting. As the story progresses, you see her slowly come into herself, find her voice, and learn how to stand up to the characters who would lead her to do the wrong thing.And then there's Northanger Abby.Which, all things considered, wasn't all that interesting. There were a few funny moments when she first arrived and tried her hand at becoming a gothic heroine, but I hoped there would be more to it than that. <--lotta buildup, not a lotta payoff!And Henry? He's the male version of Catherine. He's not some dashing Superman, he's just a nice, normal guy who does the right thing.I was maybe happier for these two lovebirds when they beat the odds than I am for a lot of literary couples because they were just so damn regular. I read this 10 years ago and decided to listen to it on audiobook this time around. Loved it! Wanda McCaddon was the narrator, and she was absolutely wonderful.
1509459138	A creepy mansion ...Dark and stormy nights ...... and Jane Austen just having fun with us."Now I must give one smirk, and then we may be rational again."Seventeen year old Catherine Morland, as innocent and naïve a heroine as Austen ever created, with no particular distinguishing characteristics except goodhearted sincerity and an overfondness for Gothic novels, is invited to stay in Bath for several weeks with kindly and wealthy neighbors. She meets a new bestie, Isabella ...... as well as Henry Tilney, a guy who's far too quick―not to mention wealthy―for her. But he has a weakness for cute girls who totally admire him.Their relationship strikes me as weak, probably because Austen was focused more on creating a parody by turning Gothic conventions on their heads than on creating a compelling heroine and romance. Henry is a great character, but Catherine really isn't quite up to his level, despite all of Jane Austen's rationalizations (though maybe that's true to life sometimes). However, I comfort myself with the thought that Catherine isn't unintelligent, just young and inexperienced. I have faith in Henry's ability to kindly help her learn to think more deeply and critically.Austen inserts a lot of sarcastic side comments mocking Gothic plot elements, like Catherine's father being "not in the least addicted to locking up his daughters" and her mother "instead of dying in bringing the latter [sons] into the world, as anybody might expect," still living on in inexplicably good health. But Austen also takes the time, whilst skewering Gothic novels, to make a few pleas to readers in favor of novels generally. And she creates one of her most deliciously shallow and hypocritical characters in Isabella, whose mendacious comments, along with Henry's sarcastic ones, were the biggest pleasure in this book for me.When Catherine is invited to visit with Henry's family at the formidable Northanger Abbey, all her Gothic daydreams finally seem poised to come true. A mysterious heavy chest in her bedroom, with silver handles "broken perhaps prematurely by some strange violence"; an odd locked area of the house; a man she suspects of doing away with his wife. Gasp! Austen makes fun of it all, and Catherine's "disturbed imagination" along with it. Catherine repeatedly gets shot down and then makes firm although not necessarily long-lasting resolutions not to let her imagination run away with her in the future. But it seems likely that, in the end, she's gained some experience and wisdom.Not to mention (view spoiler)[Henry. (hide spoiler)]Good fun! The 2007 BBC TV movie with Felicity Jones and JJ Feild takes a few liberties with the book's plot, but I still recommend it highly.Random trivia: Watership Down uses the ending lines from Northanger Abbey as one of its final chapter heading quotes, in what is probably my favorite use ever of a literary quote in an entirely different yet completely fitting context.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3655214889	"The person, be it gentlemen or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid."This is my third Austen novel: Pride and Prejudice and Sense and Sensibility being the first two, and when I reviewed the first two, I felt that I did not do justice to the author, mainly because I thought myself not nearly qualified to review them. And now that I'm finished with Northanger Abbey, I have to confess, I still cannot shake that feeling off. But still, when one enjoys a book - a lot, it's hard not to say something - though that something might not measure up to the standards of the author's typical audience."To come with a well-informed mind is to come with an inability of administering to the vanity of others, which a sensible person would always wish to avoid."Being a little familiar with two of Austen's novels prior to this, I did expect Northanger Abbey to share some similarities - in the the style of writing, protagonist's way of seeing the world and how the reader is allowed to empathize in quite an interesting way - and they were there. However, to me, Northanger Abbey seemed like a comedy for the majority of the book. True, the beginning and the ending chapters did not share this, but still, most middle chapters appeared to be written with the chief aim of making the reader laugh, more than anything. And in my case, it did so quite well."man only can be aware of the insensibility of man towards a new gown."Again, I don't believe I'm qualified enough to comment on Austen's writing skills, but cannot help mentioning how beautifully narrated everything is. It's the same exulting feeling I got while reading Pride and Prejudice, and, though Northanger Abbey might not be as well written or detailed as the former, I loved it almost the same. I'm gonna let this one be kind of a incomplete review, and one I'm someday going to re try (and hoping I'd be somewhat better by that time to better appreciate everything). But for now, I'll be content in saying I like this one better than Sense and Sensibility, but not quite as much as Pride and Prejudice."To be guided by second-hand conjecture is pitiful."
651429253	Northanger Abbey is the shortest of Jane Austen's six major novels, and has a special place in many readers' hearts. In many ways it is not the tightly constructed witty sort of story we expect from this author, yet its spontaneity and rough edges prove to be part of its charm. Started when she was very young, it should perhaps more properly be classed as part of her juvenilia. What lifts it above the other earlier works, however, is the skill she demonstrates for writing a parody of all the gothic romantic novels which were so popular at the time. And this aspect is twinned with another of Jane Austen's concerns, a satirical observation of human nature within a narrow band of society; a comedy of manners. There are many literary allusions, which focus on the gothic genre. At the time Jane Austen was writing, novels - especially gothic novels of this type - were looked down upon by many people, particularly those of the upper classes. It is likely that a young writer would therefore feel that she needed a strong position from which to defend her craft against any critics who might in future disparage her work. The characters in Northanger Abbey itself constantly refer both to "Mrs Radcliffe", and her novels, such as "The Mysteries of Udolpho" and "The Italian" by name. At one point, where Catherine, the heroine, is chatting to her friend, she asks Isabella for suggestions. Her friend replies, "I will read you their names directly; here they are, in my pocket-book. "Castle of Wolfenbach", "Clermont", "Mysterious Warnings", "Necromancer of the Black Forest", "Midnight Bell", "Orphan of the Rhine", and "Horrid Mysteries". Those will last us some time."And Catherine insists,"Yes, pretty well; but are they all horrid, are you sure they are all horrid?"As an interesting aside, although for many years these were assumed to be merely invented titles by Jane Austen, it has since come to light that they are actual gothic novels, by different authors. They have subsequently been republished as "The Northanger Horrid Novels Collection". This particular sort of comedy is lacking in Jane Austen's subsequent novels, which perhaps are a little more cautious in their wit and irony, being intended for a wider audience. Northanger Abbey was meant mainly as family entertainment, which is why Austen mischievously includes so many literary references, which she expected her relatives to pick up and recognise. Jane Austen also addresses the reader directly throughout the novel, and sometimes voices her own opinions quite forcefully, forgetting the story for a moment. But perhaps she had an eye to the future, considering that attack is the best form of defence, and writing this way quite deliberately in anticipation of any critical assessment. As these passages burst upon us, we are provided with a little insight into Austen's opinions at the time. Famously, very little remains extant, to show us her opinions, due to her instructions to her sister Cassandra to burn all her letters after her death.Originally Northanger Abbey was entitled "Susan" and written around 1798-99. It was the first of her novels to be submitted for publication, in 1803. However, it was not in fact published until 1817-18, after further revision by the author, including changing the main character's name from "Susan" to "Catherine". Jane Austen died in July 1817. The two novels Northanger Abbey and "Persuasion" (her final novel) were thus both published posthumously, comprising the first two volumes of a four-volume set. Interestingly, neither title was her own invention, but probably that of her brother, Henry, who had been instrumental in their publication.As well as being a Gothic parody, and a comedy of manners, Northanger Abbey is a coming of age novel, another favourite theme from Jane Austen. The first sentence,"No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy, would have supposed her born to be an heroine"sets the very droll, tongue in cheek tone for the writing. We are chattily introduced to the young and naïve Catherine, the novel's unlikely heroine. Catherine is not particularly pretty or feminine, and one of ten children of a country clergyman. However, by the age of 17, we are told that she is "in training for a heroine", having all the attributes considered desirable in a young girl at the time. The reader enjoys Catherine's youthful enthusiasm and also how impressionable she is. She has crazes, such as being excessively fond of reading Gothic novels - the more "horrid" she claims with glee, the better. She takes everything at face value, at the start of the novel being unable to see any deviousness, or any baser motives. Catherine is not very perceptive, not ever able to interpret what may lie behind certain actions if it is negative. She is innocent - a naïve - and in this, has a lot of charm and attraction for the reader. We follow Catherine's progress, as she is invited by some wealthier neighbours in Fullerton, the Allens, to accompany them to visit the fashionable town of Bath. There she is introduced to society over the winter season, through attending balls and the theatre. So although it is constantly referred to, there is in fact little gothic feel in the whole first half of the novel. It is much more similar to Jane Austen's later novels, both in its setting, and its preoccupations. It is concerned with young people and their feelings; how they mature, and how their marriage prospects improve as a consequence. In this aspect, all Jane Austen's novels are very similar, and all of them have reassuringly happy endings. Jane Austen is always keen to entertain her readers! Catherine's amiability and good character is further demonstrated through her making friends, in Bath, with a confident older girl, Isabella Thorpe, the daughter of Mrs Allen's old school-friend. The reader can see straightaway that Isabella is far more savvy and ambitious than Catherine, and possibly manipulating her new friend. Isabella has a brother, John whom Catherine is delighted to find is also a friend of her older brother, James. Both young men are fellow students at Oxford University. However she (and the reader) takes an instant dislike to John, finding him pompous, brash, boastful and overbearing. In the meantime she has met a witty and clever young gentleman, Henry Tilney, and enjoyed his company and conversation. The reader can deduce that, at 17, she is well on the way to falling in love with this intelligent and polite, slightly older and more experienced gentleman. The novel has several social situations which, although very much of their time, reveal essential aspects of human nature which are timeless. The difficulties facing Catherine are difficulties and situations common to all teenagers. There is embarrassment, a feeling of gaucheness and several occasions where the peer pressure is very strong, such as when James, Isabella and John try to persuade her to join them when she had made a former promise for another engagement. Catherine also has to learn how to stay polite and resolute when she is bullied by John Thorpe. And when she eventually returns home to her parents, uncomprehending of why she has been treated in such a shameful way, the reader is treated to the common enough spectacle of a moody, sulky teenager. For the second half of the novel the setting has switched to Northanger Abbey itself, as Catherine has received an invitation to stay there. The tone becomes slightly darker, and the viewpoint switches to be almost entirely from Catherine's perspective, using free indirect narration. Everything is presented from Catherine's point of view, which leads to some hilarious moments, due to her romantic notions of what an ancient abbey should be like. The reader has been well prepared for this, through conversations between Catherine and Henry Tilney. Here she is very excited about the prospect of a visit to the abbey, "You have formed a very favourable idea of the abbey.""To be sure, I have. Is not it a fine old place, just like what one reads about?"Henry Tilney continues to tease her, although Catherine revels in the descriptions, not realising that this is what he is doing,"And are you prepared to encounter all the horrors that a building such as "what one reads about" may produce? Have you a stout heart? Nerves fit for sliding panels and tapestry? ... "Will not your mind misgive you when you find yourself in this gloomy chamber - too lofty and extensive for you, with only the feeble rays of a single lamp to take in its size - its walls hung with tapestry exhibiting figures as large as life, and the bed, of dark green stuff or purple velvet, presenting even a funereal appearance? Will not your heart sink within you?"Catherine waits impatiently for her visit, whereas the reader has been privy to broad hints that the abbey may not be at all as she expects. Sure enough, our innocent heroine's expectations increase on the journey,"As they drew near the end of their journey, her impatience for a sight of the abbey ... returned in full force, and every bend in the road was expected with solemn awe to afford a glimpse of its massy walls of grey stone, rising amidst a grove of ancient oaks, with the last beams of the sun playing in beautiful splendour on its high Gothic windows." But as the reader expects, the exterior of the building comes as a bit of a let-down, "She knew not that she had any right to be surprised, but there was a something in this mode of approach which she certainly had not expected. To pass between lodges of a modern appearance, to find herself with such ease in the very precincts of the abbey, and driven so rapidly along a smooth, level road of fine gravel, without obstacle, alarm, or solemnity of any kind, struck her as odd and inconsistent ... The windows, to which she looked with peculiar dependence, from having heard the general talk of his preserving them in their Gothic form with reverential care, were yet less what her fancy had portrayed. To be sure, the pointed arch was preserved - the form of them was Gothic - they might be even casements - but every pane was so large, so clear, so light! To an imagination which had hoped for the smallest divisions, and the heaviest stone-work, for painted glass, dirt, and cobwebs, the difference was very distressing." All the descriptions of Bath society, both in Northanger Abbey and Austen's other novels, are drawn from her own experience. One of the interesting aspects of Northanger Abbey, however, is that passages such as these seem to indicate she incorporates her reading experience as well as her real-life experience; it is just as much a product of the Gothic novels that she herself read. One of the highlights of the novel is where Henry Tilney teases Catherine about the "horrid" contents of such novels. Typically there would be a crumbling old building, possibly an abbey, once used to house nuns or monks. The abbey would then become abandoned and derelict, and later bought by an evil lord or baron. Dastardly deeds would occur in the ancient edifice, once the lord or baron took possession, and the once holy nature of the abbey would become an ironic feature in these Gothic novels.Northanger Abbey is a dreadful disappointment for Catherine, who had imagined herself as the heroine of a Gothic novel. Living out her imaginative fantasies, she was hoping to be thrilled by mystery, horror, and sinister and macabre deeds from an earlier time. She had found Bath to be a pleasant tourist town, interesting for her to visit, but in Catherine's mind, the Abbey would inevitably be a place of new heightened experiences. At every point where the Abbey turns out to be conventional and normal, Catherine remembers the abbeys from her favourite gothic novels, deliberately frightening herself to complete her thrilling anticipations, "The night was stormy; the wind had been rising at intervals the whole afternoon; and by the time the party broke up, it blew and rained violently. Catherine, as she crossed the hall, listened to the tempest with sensations of awe; and, when she heard it rage round a corner of the ancient building and close with sudden fury a distant door, felt for the first time that she was really in an abbey."Catherine still longs for the abbey to conform to her imagined ideal, and one of the funniest scenes in the book is (view spoiler)[when she discovers a cabinet, with a mysterious paper inside. Her imagination runs riot at what this could be, but it eventually turns out to be simply a laundry list. (hide spoiler)] At this point Catherine begins to see how ludicrous and immature her fantasies have been and begins to be rather ashamed of herself. Here is the start of this episode, "she was struck by the appearance of a high, old-fashioned black cabinet, which, though in a situation conspicuous enough, had never caught her notice before. Henry’s words, his description of the ebony cabinet which was to escape her observation at first, immediately rushed across her; and though there could be nothing really in it, there was something whimsical, it was certainly a very remarkable coincidence! She took her candle and looked closely at the cabinet ...It was some time however before she could unfasten the door, the same difficulty occurring in the management of this inner lock as of the outer; but at length it did open; and not vain, as hitherto, was her search; her quick eyes directly fell on a roll of paper pushed back into the further part of the cavity, apparently for concealment, and her feelings at that moment were indescribable. Her heart fluttered, her knees trembled, and her cheeks grew pale. She seized, with an unsteady hand, the precious manuscript, for half a glance sufficed to ascertain written characters; and while she acknowledged with awful sensations this striking exemplification of what Henry had foretold, resolved instantly to peruse every line before she attempted to rest."This parody is not only entertaining, as the reader enjoys the heightened drama, and the exaggerated language which would be a typical feature of the gothic novels of the day. We also hold in our minds the strong suspicion that what Catherine is to discover may be quite ordinary and unremarkable, and are eager for the heroine to be thwarted and become crestfallen - yet there is just a tiny possibility remaining in our minds that there is indeed something "most horrid". The skill of Jane Austen's narration lies in showing the gap between how things would be in the ideal life of a fictional heroine, and how things actually are in reality for the innocent naïve Catherine, and the consequent absurdity.Here is the culmination of the ironic humour in this episode, when Catherine is plunged into darkness,"Catherine, for a few moments, was motionless with horror. It was done completely; not a remnant of light in the wick could give hope to the rekindling breath. Darkness impenetrable and immovable filled the room. A violent gust of wind, rising with sudden fury, added fresh horror to the moment. Catherine trembled from head to foot. In the pause which succeeded, a sound like receding footsteps and the closing of a distant door struck on her affrighted ear. Human nature could support no more. A cold sweat stood on her forehead, the manuscript fell from her hand, and groping her way to the bed, she jumped hastily in, and sought some suspension of agony by creeping far underneath the clothes."For Catherine fantasies are all; life is exciting, and people are seen as wholly good or wholly bad. She does not realise, as the reader does, that General Tilney is an outright snob, constantly anxiously comparing his home and gardens with those of Mr. Allen. These parts, and the depiction of General Tilney's character (which, oddly, is very similar to the character of Mr. Elliot, the father of the heroine Anne in Jane Austen's final novel, "Persuasion") is one of the most amusing parts to the reader. General Tilney is always so very pleased to find that his belongings are larger or more impressive than those of Mr. Allen. Of course, the justification for this, is that he wants his children to marry into rich and wealthy families. The people Jane Austen identifies with and writes about are a very narrow band of the gentry. Tradesmen, and anyone who works for a living, are to be looked down on. The aristocracy are often to be poked fun at. Jane Austen's heroes and heroines are frequently from good families, but have fallen on hard times. They are almost invariably impoverished gentlefolk.Catherine still seems very naïve in her behaviour, however. She has no idea of the love interests surrounding her, not seeming to notice (view spoiler)[the romance which is developing between James and Isabella, and being equally puzzled when Isabella flirts with Frederick Tilney. Catherine does not pick up that Isabella, despite her protestations to the contrary, is dismayed on learning of James's limited future income. Catherine also has no idea why the General is so courteous and solicitous of her, merely believing him to be exceptionally kind. There is a conflict in her mind, as she also believes him capable of murdering his wife. (hide spoiler)] It is only when she begins to perceive such thoughts as ridiculous, that Catherine begins to mature into a young woman. Northanger Abbey is an enjoyable read even today, well over 200 years after it was written. The characters are recognisable types even now, as human nature does not change, only the mores of the society they are in. And there are some memorably entertaining minor characters in this novel. Some critics say that the hero, Henry Tilney, is too much of a bully, and behaves in a patronising way to Catherine. He frequently points out her mistakes and tries to mould her into thinking the way he does. It could be argued that this was very much a prevalent view of the time, although readers now may have a problem accepting such a relationship as something to be wished for. Yet even here, Jane Austen show that her ideas were more advanced than many of her contemporaries, "The advantages of natural folly in a beautiful girl have been already set forth by the capital pen of a sister author; and to her treatment of the subject I will only add, in justice to men, that though to the larger and more trifling part of the sex, imbecility in females is a great enhancement of their personal charms, there is a portion of them too reasonable and too well informed themselves to desire anything more in woman than ignorance."So although the author accepts that such a disparity in a romantic relationship - or ultimately marriage - was to be expected, she does not praise stupidity in women. Jane Austen maintains that men do not look for stupidity in women, only ignorance, because some men enjoy instructing women. In this particular novel, the reader is led to assume that Henry enjoys Catherine's ignorance, her impressionable and youthful mind, because it gives him a chance to teach her. A modern reader will of course take exception to such a message; the idea that this is in any way to be desired. But a modern reader can also appreciate the subtle distinction between ignorance and stupidity - and also that Austen's eye for these matters is always both perceptive and deeply sarcastic. She writes with a waspish wit, about what she knows. Yes, it is a narrow band of society and culture, within a very specific time-frame, but she sometimes manages to dissociate herself from its constraints, and always excels in what she does.
652159511	Catherine Morland is your typical seventeen -year- old -girl, of the turn of the century (19th, that is). She reads too much, an illness that is sadly terminal, Gothic books are her passion and the rage of the era . Any ancient home that is eerie , ominous or sinister the young lady would enjoy seeing, if there were any in the area. She lives in a quiet English village, (too quiet) where everyone knows each other, which keeps the populous from misadventures. Her parents have ten children and surprisingly, her mother is alive and healthy. Miss Morland's father is a well to do clergyman, but with all those kids, nobody would know especially Catherine. Mrs. Allen a wealthy neighbor is going on a six -week vacation to Bath, with Mr.Allen ( he has the fashionable gout ), the most famous resort in England. Mrs. Allen needs an agreeable companion to talk to, she's rather silly, asks Catherine. Her chief interest is clothes, still how long can you speak about fashion, before it gets tiresome? The fatigued husband doesn't stay in her presence very long. Arriving in town is exciting and daunting, soon people start to notice Miss Catherine Morland particularly young men, a new experience for her. She grew up a tomboy playing outside with the boys, not inside with dolls. Yet the last three years her homely awkwardness has vanished, a pleasant, pretty appearance she acquires that even her astonished mother, acknowledges. Catherine soon forms a friendship with Isabella Thorpe a beautiful, deceitful, gold digger, her family has little, but she has ... at 21, time is running out for her to catch a rich husband. It doesn't take long to discover that Catherine's brother James, and Isabella's brother John, are best friends, so naturally the two ladies also become too. Then the brothers of the girls come to town, unexpectedly. Catherine loves her plain looking older brother, and you can imagine the shock that she feels, when James and Isabella become engaged! Yes, it's the first time Catherine has been out of her insulated village, of Fullerton. Still true love has a rocky road to travel, when it isn't. Henry Tilney a wealthy man's son, meets the charming Catherine at a dance. She has eyes for him, but so does Isabella's annoying brother John, for her (he's always talking about his horses). However Henry's older brother Captain Frederick Tilney, arrives too, very popular Bath is for romance and starts flirting with Isabella, which she doesn't mind but James does. He has more money than Catherine's brother. The resort is famous for the miraculous waters, though most go there for the dancing, plays, card games and walking around in the Grand Pump Room and meeting the rich... Showing everyone who's interested they're in town, nobody is... Later Catherine is invited by General Tilney the father of Henry, to go to Northanger Abbey, his home. Amazingly a real Gothic house with his son, and daughter Eleanor, another friend of Catherine 's and stay a few weeks. The girl with a wild imagination is thrilled, finally, all Catherine's dreams have come to pass ...
2364709074	3.5??? I thought this was such a wonderful story, I adore Jane Austen’s writing, but I’m having a hard time not comparing it to P&P and Emma (they are my favorite Austen novels). I think my main complaint is that I wasn’t as invested in the relationship between Catherine and Henry Tilney as I expected to be… Still processing, my opinion could change :)
172874874	A charming early Austen novel filled with overt criticism of Mrs. Radcliffe and implied criticism of Fanny Burney . . . but this is very gentle criticism indeed, since young Jane is obviously a huge fan of both writers. Her heroine Catharine Morland is a charming naif in the Evelina mode--perhaps just a little too naive, and therein lies some of the criticism--who is fascinated by all things gothic and therefore misinterprets much of what she sees, manufacturing the sinister in a score of places and yet not recognizing real evil when it stares her in the face. The book, while filled with good sense, is nevertheless lighthearted and very funny, and may well be the sunniest of Austen's works.
3216112091	2020 view:“If adventures will not befall a young lady in her own village, she must seek them abroad.”Jane Austen, Northanger AbbeyAustins' mockery cum satire of Gothic romances with the well informed and rather narky mostly third party omniscient narrator, who also talks directly to the reader(!), made me smile... and sometimes say 'burn'! Well written as ever, with the social commentary being added by the narrator as well as the storytelling, from the main protagonist Catherine Morland's point of view. As I thought when I first read this, it needed a second read for me to truly appreciate this coming of age, of the avid Gothic romance believer (Catherine) with her time, thoughts and experiences in Bath and then on to Northanger Abbey. It is with a happy heart that I that I can now add 3 more points to this read - 8 out of 122008 viewAustins' mockery/satire of Gothic romances left me a bit cold to be honest. Yes, as ever, wonderfully written, but the social commentary overrode the storytelling in my opinion. Although knowing me, it will probably take a second read to appreciate this coming of age take of avid Gothic romance believer Catherine Morland's time and experiences in Bath and then on Northanger Abbey.Until my reread, I will have the utter shame of awarding this book a Two Star, 5 out of 12.
492876087	NOVELS.Let us leave it to the Reviewers to abuse such effusions of fancy at their leisure, and over every new novel to talk in threadbare strains of the trash with which the press now groans. Let us not desert one another, we are an injured body. Although our productions have afforded more extensive and unaffected pleasure than those of any other literary corporation in the world, no species of composition has been so much decried. From pride, ignorance, or fashion, our foes are almost as many as our readers. And while the abilities of the nine-hundredth abridger of the History of England, or of the man who collects and publishes in a volume some dozen lines of Milton, Pope, and Prior, with a paper from the Spectator, and a chapter from Sterne, are eulogized by a thousand pens,--there seems almost a general with of decrying the capacity and undervaluing the labour of the novelist, and of slighting the performances which have only genius, wit, and taste to recommend them. “I am no novel reader--I seldom look into novels--Do not imagine that I often read novels--It is really very well for a novel.’--Such is the common cant.--”And what are you reading, Miss--?’ “Oh! it is only a novel!’ replies the young lady; while she lays down her book with affected indifference, or momentary shame. Gertrude SteinGertrude Stein: Do you know why you are here Mr. Keeten?Keeten: I don’t even know where I am. Stein: You are before the Book Tribunal. I rubbed my jaw. Keeten: Did Hemingway have to slug me?Stein: Fetching, people such as yourself, to appear before this tribunal seems to be the one thing that Hemingway does enjoy about serving on the panel.Hemingway gave a short bark of a laugh. Ernest HemingwayStein: Let me introduce Charlotte Bronte and of course you’ve met Mr. Hemingway.I waved at Bronte. Hemingway gave me a salute. I gave him a tight nod and my jaw another rub. Stein: You have been assigned counsel. Mr. F. Scott Fitzgerald. Keeten: Yes I would like to talk to him. Maybe he can explain what this is all about. Where is he?Stein: I do believe he is under your table.I leaned over and spied a slumped form softly snoring. I grabbed a shoulder and rolled him over. Gin fumes teared up my eyes.Keeten: Miss Stein I need a new counsellor. Stein: I’m afraid that is impossible. You’ve told many people that Fitzgerald is your favorite writer and the rules of this tribunal is that your favorite writer represents you. Keeten: I’d like to change that to Gore Vidal.Bouts of laughter greet this request. Only then did I realize that the seats behind me were full of dead writers. I waved to Kurt Vonnegut and he gave me a wink. Keeten: Was something I said humorous?Stein: In the short time that Mr. Vidal has joined us he has been requested many times, but unfortunately no one has been before us that actually considered him to be their favorite writer. Hemingway: You chose unwisely. Fitzgerald over me what a joke that is.Keeten: I think your work is swell Hemingway and Miss Bronte, I really loved Villette.Stein: Okay, okay Mr. Keeten enough with the flattering. What do you think of my work?Keeten: ErhhhHer mannish features framed a pronounced grimace.Stein: That’s okay Mr. Keeten I won’t force you to manufacture platitudes, very few people can really understand and appreciate my work. I thought a change of subject was in order.Keeten: Why exactly am I here?Stein: It is regarding Jane Austen.I felt my blood run a little cold. Keeten: I just finished reading Northanger Abbey.Stein: Yes we know. In the past you have made some rather cutting remarks about Miss Austen.Keeten: I won’t deny that I harbored some resentment, not towards Miss Austen as much as towards a survey class I was forced to take in college. Stein: You sir, are parsing words. Hemingway interrupted. Isn’t it time for a drink?Stein: Why not?Djuna Barnes walked out with a silver tray filled with shots of gin and as the glass clinked on the table in front of me Fitzgerald sprang up like a jack in the box with his hand out, fingers none too steady, reaching for a glass. He slammed the shot down his throat and before I could tilt my own glass up he’d already slid back beneath the table. The gin hit my stomach like a mariachi band.As Barnes walked back by me after serving the judges, looked in the prime of life like all the judges, although that was up for debate with Stein, I said you are prettier than your pictures. Djuna BarnesBarnes: Save it. You are not even remotely my type. I could feel the heat on my neck climbing up to my cheeks. She flipped my chin with her finger. Barnes: Good luck anyway. Stein: If you are finished annoying Miss Barnes, Mr. Keeten, can we proceed?Keeten: Of course.Stein: As you were saying.Keeten: I apologize to Miss Austen if any of my remarks were inappropriately expressed. I can assure her that I have the utmost respect for her as a writer. In fact I intend to write a very positive review about Northanger Abbey.Stein: The writer in question is not allowed to attend the proceedings, but we will express your regret for your behavior to her. We have a party that we must get to Mr. Keeten so we are going to wrap this up. It is our intention here today to give you a warning about expressing yourself in such flippant ways about the works of the members of this novelist community in the future. If we feel the need to call you back again I can assure you more strident discussion will be conveyed to you. Keeten: Yes ma’am.Stein: Anything further to add Miss Bronte.Bronte: I think he is kind of handsome. Charlotte BronteStein: Irrelevant Miss Bronte and to balance the scales I must say I find him to be a rather unattractive man. Mr. Hemingway?Hemingway: Do I get to send him back?Stein: *Sigh* yes Mr. Hemingway please do so.Hemingway walked across the room towards me. Before I could even speculate about how he was going to send me back his fist imploded against my jaw. As I slid to the floor I heard him say.“I got to send you back the same way you came Tinkerbell.”I woke on the floor of my library in a slurry of drool. My head pounding, both sides of my jaw tender to the touch. Note to self do not write a negative review of Hemingway. From the way my stomach feels I’d say the gin ate a hole through my insides and was still burrowing deeper. I pull myself up to the computer. The Lovely Jane AustenThe heroine of this novel, Miss Catherine Morland, was a reader of gothic literature. I know it was Jane Austen’s intention to poke fun at the craze of people reading this type of novel, but since I’m a fan of the genre I actually enjoyed the frequent references to the author Ann Radcliffe and the other books that were being bought, enjoyed, and discussed in English drawing rooms of the time. Miss Morland has hopes of finding herself enmeshed in a romance of gothic proportions. When her parents consent to letting her visit friends and she meets new friends she knows she is on the verge of a grand adventure. She meets the Tilney’s, and in particular meets the man of our tale, Henry Tilney, who demonstrates early on that he had the makings of being the romantic hero of the new plot evolving in the mind of Miss Morland. She is invited to visit the Tilney’s at the family estate and the vision that Catherine composes in her mind about Northanger Abbey is doomed for disappointment. To give one example where the Abbey failed to provide the proper gothic atmosphere:The windows, to which she looked with peculiar dependence, from having heard the General talk of his preserving them in their Gothic form with reverential care, were yet less what her fancy had portrayed. To be sure, the pointed arch was preserved--the form of them was Gothic--they might be even casements--but every pane was so large, so clear, so light! To an imagination which had hoped for the smallest divisions, and the heaviest stone-work, for painted glass, dirt and cobwebs, the difference was very distressing.Catherine is mortified by her own ineptness with proper behavior. She is manipulated by friends, but proves to be a quick learner and shows a steely spine standing up to their overbearing behavior towards her. When she is cast out she proves her mettle once again finding her own way home with quiet determination despite her inexperience with the workings of the world. Yes she is silly, and maybe because of her Gothic view of the world, I liked Catherine...a lot. I wish the plot of the novel would have allowed more of Henry Tilney as he certainly seemed like a man, a reader of novels, who I would have enjoyed taking a long walk with to discuss literature, life, and all things nice. There is subtle comedy throughout this short novel and even when our heroine is unhappy I didn’t feel distressed, for how could the world deny Catherine her happy ending? If you have struggled with other Austen novels I can assure you this is a breezy affair, not to say that it doesn’t have literary merit, for it has, if nothing else, repaired my relationship with Miss Austen and I fully intend now to reread her other works and evaluate them through attitude adjusted eyes.
168124870	(2009) My first book on my Kindle... Loved this Austen book--- probably because I could seriously relate to the heroine... Was so similar at 17. It was simply a pleasure to read, complete with several chuckle out loud scenes.(2025) Currently rereading via an Audible Original narrated by the British Austen Goddess, Emma Thompson. I’m in heaven and the pacing brings with it a degree of detail I’d completely forgotten!A road trip and a few late night listens equaled a lovely listening experience. I delight to spend a year in the life of Catherine Moreland— from a silly girl to a thoughtful and introspective young lady. Clearly inspired by early gothic novels, I loved Austen’s use of an involved narrator and gothic-tinged melodrama.(last reviewed 6/1/25)
36845782	(Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.)The CCLaP 100: In which I read for the first time a hundred so-called "classics," then write reports on whether or not they deserve the label.Book #24: Northanger Abbey, by Jane Austen (1818)The story in a nutshell:Although not published until after her death in 1818 (but more on that in a bit), Northanger Abbey was actually the first book written by infamous "chick-lit forerunner" Jane Austen, with most scholars agreeing that she originally penned it in 1798 when barely out of her teens; so it makes sense, then, that the novel centers around the 17-year-old Catherine Morland, and of all the issues important to a typical late teen. A delightful yet melodramatic young woman, Catherine has a way of naturally charming almost everyone she meets, even while being a hopeless devotee of trashy "gothic novels" (think beach-read for the Georgian Era), and of letting them unduly influence her already fanciful and curious mind. When middle-aged friends of the Morlands, then, invite the sheltered rural-living Catherine to join them for six weeks in the cosmopolitan resort town of Bath, she can't help but to be thrilled; and indeed, the bulk of this novel's prose is devoted to capturing the ins-and-outs of youth culture in such a period, the subtle and ultra-complicated flirtation rituals that took place each evening among such communal settings as recital halls and the boardwalk.Things get even more interesting, though, when one of the friends she makes in Bath invites Catherine to continue her holiday by joining her family at their country home, an old Medieval religious fortress called Northanger Abbey that they've converted into a contemporary living space, with Catherine's goth-filled head going nuts over visions of crumbling cobwebby back hallways and dark family secrets. But alas, the abbey turns out to be quite modern and well-maintained, and all of Catherine's attempts to dream up spooky conspiracy theories are met with perfectly blasé rational explanations; that forces her instead to have to pay attention to the messy romantic entanglements going on between her friends, as well as the constant wooing by her own various would-be suitors that she is constantly trying to brush off. Add a mysterious Napoleonic ship captain, some misunderstandings over money, a couple of messy public breakups; and by the end, we leave our hero a little wiser about the world if not a little more jaded, understanding now as a young adult that it's the consistent behavior of a person through good times and bad that determines their character, not their endowment or war record or any other surface-level statistic you can mention.The argument for it being a classic:Fans of Northanger Abbey argue that it is Austen distilled into its most essential form -- laser-precise observations about the human condition and the fallacies of so-called "civilized society," but without the obsessive preoccupation over landing a man that marks so much of her later and more well-known work. And that's important, they say, because we should actually be celebrating Austen for the perceptive insights into the human psyche she was capable of, not for the bonnet-wearing eyelash-fluttering romantic elements that seem to so dominate any discussion about her anymore. The reason Austen continues to be so popular, they argue, is precisely because her stories are so timeless at their core; although ostensibly dealing with the fussy aristocratic issues of the day, in reality they say things about the way young women see the world that are still exactly and utterly true of young women 200 years later. It's easy to lose sight of this within the epic frippery of such later masterpieces as Pride & Prejudice and Sense & Sensibility, fans argue; Northanger Abbey cuts through all this filler, leaving a slim and artistically muscular volume that ironically stands the test of time much better than her bigger projects.The argument against:Of course, let's not forget that there's a reason Austen's later work is so much better known and loved, say this book's critics -- and that's because those books are simply better, according to any criteria you wish to name, the result of an older and wiser woman with not only better writing skills but a much more complex outlook on the world. Although there's not much debate anymore over whether this is a historically important and well-done story, many critics argue that Northanger Abbey simply doesn't rise to the level of "classic," as is the similar case with so many other first novels by authors who eventually become famous.My verdict:Okay, I admit it; after years of making fun of people for their obsessive Austen fandom, now that I've finally read my first novel of hers myself, I have to confess that I'm awfully impressed, and can easily see why people still go so crazy for her work in the first place. Because I gotta tell you, it's positively freaky how much like a modern 17-year-old girl in the early 2000s that Catherine actually sounds like here, of just how many of the details Austen chose to focus on turn out to be universal observations about teenage female personas in general, and not simply observations about that particular age's popular culture and societal norms. I love, for example, how Catherine simply accepts in this quiet way the realization of how much more important it is in the eyes of men to appear smart in public than in the eyes of women; how gold-digging for a husband is simply wrong no matter what the circumstances; that you understand a lot more about a person when observing them in a bad mood than a good one. I love that Catherine automatically assumes the craziest explanation for any situations that occur in her life, because she's a bored teen and this is what bored teens do to entertain themselves. I love how she is constantly worrying about saying the wrong thing in front of others; how she is constantly running off in embarrassment over various impolitic confessions blurted out during enjoyable conversations; how the people older than her accept all this from her with a charmed sense of bemusement, while her fellow teenage girls react with catty bitchiness. I love how their entire social circles revolve around these tiny, barely perceptible actions, stuff completely inconsequential to grown-ups but so important to the young; how entire romantic relationships can be started simply by two people glancing at each other across a room for a little too long, entire friendships destroyed simply because of not sitting at a certain table during a public meal. Sheesh, if that's not a teenage girl's life in a nutshell, I don't know what is.In fact, I'll go so far as to say this; that at least here in Northanger Abbey, Austen turns out to be a much smarter, much more bitter author than I was expecting, given that her most diehard fans concentrate so much on the historical-finery and antiquated-courtship elements of it all. And indeed, if I wanted to be really controversial, I'd argue that if Austen were alive and writing in our modern times, she wouldn't write about relationships at all, but was instead forced to during her own times because of this being the only stuff female authors could get published back then. I mean, don't get me wrong, this book contains an unbelievable amount of the same tropes as so-called modern "chick-lit," which is why so many people call her the forerunner of the genre*; but if you pay attention, you'll see that Catherine herself is really not that interested in the subject at all, other than to the extent that it's expected of her by the rest of society, and indeed you could argue that Austen's bigger point here is to examine the growing dark maturity and evermore complex understanding of the world that all young women go through, and the sometimes ugly experiences that must occur for this to happen. It's for all these reasons that I confidently label Northanger Abbey today a classic, a surprisingly still-relevant tale that even to this day is almost impossible not to be thoroughly charmed by.Is it a classic? Yes*And speaking of chick-lit, no review of Northanger Abbey is complete without an acknowledgment of its absolutely most delightful aspect, an examination of what at the time was the first-ever rise in popularity of the "novel" format, especially as it manifested itself in the form of trashy supernatural romantic thrillers designed specifically for middle-class women. Let's not forget, before the late 1700s, full-length fictional stories barely even existed; when people sat down to read a book back then, it was mostly essays or poems or plays they were picking up, with full-length made-up narrative stories treated by the intelligentsia with the same disdain we currently treat, say, first-person-shooter videogames. It was during this same period, though, that women suddenly became literate in the millions for the first time in history; and these women all needed something to read, which is what led to the rise of "gothic" literature in the first place, a combination of supernatural thriller and over-the-top romance that was generally perceived at the time as "silly woman stuff." This novel is just as enjoyable and important for its examination of all these issues as it is for the usual Austenesque stuff; and this is yet another reason to call Austen a forerunner of modern so-called chick-lit, in that all these issues are still being debated in the publishing industry to this day.
2906703759	Another enjoyable reread. Though this isn't my favourite Jane Austen novel, I love her wit and amazing charactisation. Truly a fun and engaging read.
2846963516	northanger abbey is criminally underrated and i will DIE on this hill.catherine morland? icon. she’s out here living her best mediocre academic life, is only good with sports, has learnt nothing in school, and doesn't have any particular interests until she stumbles into her gothic novel era and suddenly everything is drama™.girl reads one too many spooky books and is like, “wait. what if my love interest's house is haunted and also his dad is a MURDERER??”. she is the same kind of delulu as me 😭she is a queen, but also, every jane austen heroine is a queen, and every jane austen hero lives rent-free on my “emotionally stable men who read” shelf.northanger abbey is basically a satire of gothic novels. catherine hasn’t figured out that books aren’t real life yet, so she walks around, interpreting every creaky door and dusty hallway as mystery. our story starts in bath. catherine gets hyped on spooky books thanks to her new friend isabella and thankfully finds better friends in the tilneys, who are actually cool. eleanor? adorable. henry? a clergyman with snark, wit, and actual respect for women??when catherine gets invited to the tilney estate, her overactive imagination starts working, and she starts imagining the circumstances in which henry's mother may have died. but it turns out, it was just a dead mom who died of normal reasons and she's just a slightly dramatic teenage girl making it everyone's problem. she jumps to every wrong conclusion and nearly tanks her romance because she thinks henry’s dad might be hiding a body in the attic.eventually, henry is like, “catherine, babe… no,” and she’s like “🥺 oh no” but instead of saying anything, he confesses his love and i melted into a puddle of heart eyes. where do i find a man who gently calls me out and tells me he loves me immediately after??also, let it be known: catherine is soft, sweet, and GOOD. she’s got a moral compass, emotional intelligence in development, and the humility to grow up and admit she’s wrong. she makes mistakes but she learns. she grows.and henry tilney. just. ahhhhhhh. he reads, he teases, he has decent social skills and also deep empathy?? what is this sorcery?? what is this unattainable standard??anyhow, loved this one sm.
549792720	I really really REALLY enjoyed this. I was surprised that I enjoyed it as much as I did. The only thing that was a bit of a challenge for me was the writing style. It was hard for me to get used to it. What helped me was reading it along with an audio book. It really helped me stay on track with the story.
4833702968	"No-spoiler Alert"Northanger Abbey wasn't a casual pick for me, but a much-awaited pick for the first-written novel of Jane Austen from my most-admired Regency Era. Naivety, lies, ignorance, innocence, parental tyranny, filial disobedience, all intricately and cleanly knitted into and around "Northanger Abbey". For me the ignorance and innocence of our naïve and pretty heroine Catherine, speaks aloud about our then young Jane Austen. Usually, the first-ever novels of writers speaks volumes about their own persona. Be it Isabelle's vivacity and proclivity towards lies, or the self-conceit of Mr. Tilney to the delicate-woven love between Catherine and Henry, it is a perfect gothic yet-not-so gothic but sheer-love mystery. I patiently waited to know more about Henry and his pursuits, but Jane Austen dabbled more into introducing Catherine into the gothic setup of our favorite Northanger Abbey.NB- I was highly moved with the short yet warm role of Mrs. and Mr. Morland which balanced the parental tyranny of the plot with parental freedom and affection.
1912322558	I don't know about all of you all, but I keep work in progress reviews on my computer, saved in word documents. I recently went through my file, feeling a bit of nostalgia looking through some of the ones I never finished (some for very good reasons as they were dreadful and shall never see the light of day again). I then stumbled upon my review for this book. Unlike the others it was completely finished (although it had a few errors that I've since corrected). Reading it I remembered why I never posted it and decided that it needed to be corrected ASAP.As you can see above, I gave the novel 1 star and clearly did not like it. My opinion has not changed and indeed looking at it I smiled as I still agree completely with Tim from 2017. Why didn't I post it? Well, I've mentioned in a few of my reviews that I struggle with depression and anxiety. 2017 was an extremely bad year for it. I clearly remember thinking at the time that I couldn't post it because "It's Jane Austen. You can't dislike Jane Austen novels. You're not allowed to not like them. If you dislike it, people will hate you. Don't do this." Yes, it was a very bad time for Tim's brain.Well, fortunately the Tim of today is at least slightly more well adjusted (not much mind you…) and I frankly I liked this one. Guess I'll just post it now before my brain kicks into panic mode again. ______________Northanger Abbey is Austen's parody of the gothic… at least it is for maybe the first twenty pages and the last twenty, other than that it's a below standard romantic comedy. Don't be fooled by the gothic name drops and intriguing start; this is your standard fill-in-the-blanks framework filled with misunderstandings, parental disapproval and "oh dear me I made a mistake that was so bloody stupid that everyone had to know where this was going, but I need sympathy because I'm the lead and because this is a Jane Austin novel I must be endearing." Seriously, this is one of the most annoying main characters I've ever read. I'm frequently willing to suspend disbelief but the stupidity of her actions made me question how I'm supposed to identify or even tolerate her.As I mentioned it's known for the gothic parody parts, and some of them are amusing (though frustrating because of our lead's annoying actions). She honestly comes off like a parent's worst fears, just substitute gothic novels for video games and a "oh dear, our child has been brainwashed by the media and will act on it." Well, that's silly. Even children understand the difference between reality and fiction and… oh nevermind, there she goes looking for proof of the sinister. Obviously not genre savvy or you would know this is the wrong sort of book to find a madwoman in the attic. Had the book contained more gothic elements rather than starting with them, forgetting about them for almost two hundred pages before running back to them like you didn't make a narrative mistake, it would have possibly been more entertaining. Instead it feels like it a bad mishmash that has no clue what it wants to be. I would now like to clarify that somewhere in the flinty pits of my petrified heart I wanted to like this book. I think that's why this review is so actively angry. I majored in English, I wrote several pages on the Gothics and frankly a parody of them by such a well loved author sounded amazing. Yes, I went into it expecting something that it wasn't… usually I'd say that's on me… but this time it really does feel like the only reason this book is remembered (other than because of who the author is) is because of the gothic parody aspect. That's all that's mentioned… and there's just not much of this. If you go into it expecting a parody, you'll likely be disappointed (as I very much am). If you're going in expecting a standard Jane Austen novel (on what had to be an off period of writing for her) perhaps you'll like it. I sure as hell did not. 1/5 stars_______________There you go past Tim! It's posted! Feel relived............Please don't hate me.
1368394621	Catherine Morland is the very antithesis of the expected heroine. And yet, in this fun, Gothic parody, Austen makes her just that!Catherine has a preoccupation with the female Gothic genre that influences how she views the world around her. There is much to unpack and explore, in the characters of her new Bath acquaintances, and an opportunity to do so is soon provided, when she is invited to journey to the Abbey home of her new friends, the Tilneys. But will Mrs Radcliffe let her stay there be as restful and joyous as she is anticipating...This felt very much like a novel of two halves, with the former dominated by a depiction of fashionable life in bath, complete with an understanding garnered of the correct etiquette and conduct of the young people of that day and place in society. The latter portion was set within the walls of the Abbey and it was here that the Gothic elements begun to reveal themselves.This novel was just pure, tongue-in-cheek, escapist fun! It retained such a light-hearted tone throughout and provided a thoroughly enjoyable reading experience throughout, which was exactly what I desired during these trying times.
3579288996	Northanger Abbey tells the tale of Catherine Morland who leaves her sheltered, rural life for a few weeks to visit the busy, sophisticated world of Bath. I thought this book ended a little quickly. I would like to have known what happened to Isabella and James Morland, Catherine's brother. I was intrigued by Isabella and wanted to learn what her true intentions were, but the ending left me hanging.The book also shows how you shouldn't take how characters behave in books as the sole basis for how people behave and act in real life. I'm referring to the behaviour of one of the characters in this book and not to readers of this book.
8083130808	Po kilku dniach obniżam do 2.5
1412616	This is one of the lesser regarded Austens. It has nowhere near the fan club that the Holy Trinity of Austen (Pride and Prejudice, Emma and Sense and Sensibility) has. It's one of her first books and it's true, the prose and development of characters is not as mature. The book is more of a homage/satire of Gothic lit, mixed with the comedy of manners style that she would be famous for later.But I LOVE this book. Seriously, this book is so wonderful. The voice on this book. In later books, Jane Austen tempered her personal voice to become more moderate, fading behind the prose and the characters. She does not do that here. The narrator's voice is the best character in the book. It's bright, witty, and vicious, vicious, vicious. She will cheerfully embroil her ridiculous main character in ridiculous situations, and proceed to torture her. That's the majority of the book, making fun of Gothic novels that were popular at the time, as well as silly silly teenage girls. It's hard not to recognize yourself at some age in the main character. But it's viciousness with love. It's actually kind of trippy, all the things she convinces herself of, all the visions and fantasies she's capable of. It would make a great post-modernist movie.This main character is adorable, if inconsequential and silly. The hero has his witty moments, and I rather enjoyed him. There are a lot of lessons on love here that are less idealistic than her other novels. Much less of a grand passion, much more practical. But I kind of love that. These characters get together on a very unequal basis, but one you see happen all the time in life. They complete each other, however differently that might be.I am actually grinning as I write this review of it, remembering how much I loved it.
7121327899	I'm sorry jane austen babe this was boring
49418037	Having read both Pride and Prejudice and Persuasion I was a little surprised by this one. The first thing that surprised me was that the heroine is basically as thick as they come. I would have said that Austen is the sort of writer who creates the sort of main female characters that men are rather likely to fall in love with. I mean, I know women who go all weak at the knees over Mr Darcy, but when compared to Lizzy he is merely a sad shadow.All the same, Catherine is hardly what I would have thought of as one of the great Austen female characters. The book begins with an extended description of her and although she comes across as a pretty sort of girl – she is hardly the brain of Britain or really accomplished in any way at all. The other surprise I found in this was how satirical Austen is – satirical to the point of cynicism. I can only assume she never read this book aloud as she was writing it, because, with her tongue placed quite so firmly in her cheek, she would have bitten the tip of it off if she had. By way of example: “To look almost pretty is an acquisition of higher delight to a girl who has been looking plain the first fifteen years of her life than a beauty from her cradle can ever receive.” Or perhaps a better and my favourite example: “The advantages of natural folly in a beautiful girl have been already set forth by the capital pen of a sister author; and to her treatment of the subject I will only add, in justice to men, that though to the larger and more trifling part of the sex, imbecility in females is a great enhancement of their personal charms, there is a portion of them too reasonable and too well informed themselves to desire anything more in woman than ignorance.” The discussion that follows this quote between the young people about the nature of natural beauty is very amusing and, well, even savage in its sarcasm.Okay, so the characters are basically thick and young. The heroine also has the advantage of being gormless. She spends much of the book unaware that people could be anything other than what they seem to be or, when they are clearly acting in a way that is directly opposite to what they say of themselves, she almost invariably takes their word over their deeds. An ideal friend, then I guess, and all too easily manipulated by those around her.The story of this one is slighter than either of the other books of Austen’s I’ve read. But some of the themes are just as interesting. The affect of trashy novels on the character of young and impressionable heroines is played with beautifully in this book. Again, with her tongue firmly placed in her cheek, she says things like:“Yes, novels; for I will not adopt that ungenerous and impolitic custom so common with novel-writers, of degrading by their contemptuous censure the very performances, to the number of which they are themselves adding--joining with their greatest enemies in bestowing the harshest epithets on such works, and scarcely ever permitting them to be read by their own heroine, who, if she accidentally take up a novel, is sure to turn over its insipid pages with disgust. Alas! If the heroine of one novel be not patronized by the heroine of another, from whom can she expect protection and regard?” That this particular heroine ends up in her most humiliating trouble following her own fantasy creation at least based on a gothic novel, which only makes her look like an idiot in front of the one person she was most wanting to impress, is an interesting twist on the very strongly asserted ‘novels are good’ theme stated above.This was the first of Austen’s novels to be published and I guess I should say something like, ‘she shows promise, I expect much from her in the future’ – and, do you know what, I probably do expect quite a future for our Jane Austen.I can’t finish without saying that I particularly like the final line of this book, because if there is one thing that really makes Austen great it is that she can write great first and final lines. “I leave it to be settled, by whomsoever it may concern, whether the tendency of this work be altogether to recommend parental tyranny, or reward filial disobedience.”
2162213203	I thought I had the full measure of Northanger Abbey when I first read it in 2017, so I nearly opted to skip it when my Jane Austen book club picked it up, but I decided to give it a re-read and I'm very glad I did. Having now read a couple of other Jane Austen novels, I found this book both richer and thornier the second time around, and also a hell of a lot more fun. While I did know it was satire the first time around, I didn't think that made for a more pleasurable reading experience--though in retrospect I think it's because I still insisted on treating this book with a level of seriousness that it doesn't ask of the reader. This book is absurd and unapologetically so, and once that clicked for me it ended up working incredibly well--arguably even better than Pride and Prejudice, which is a practically faultless book, unlike Northanger Abbey which is something of a structural mess, but which still left me a bit colder than this one did.What I continue to dislike about Northanger Abbey is its central romance. There's no sense that Cathy has met her match with Henry Tilney, or he with her; instead their dynamic where her youthful naivety meets his playful condescension makes my skin crawl. (As someone who's accustomed to liking books about unlikable characters, this ended up being much more of a sticking point for me than I thought it would, and probably points to my lack of familiarity with the romance genre.)Anyway, I think I partially like this book for how unpolished and imperfect it is, and of the three Austen novels I've read so far, I think this is the one I'm most likely to return to. I keep thinking about it while Sense and Sensibility and Pride and Prejudice have almost left my mind entirely.Previous review from 2017 which I have to keep in here as I find it quite funny now:This was the single most inoffensive reading experience of my life. I didn’t like this book. I didn’t dislike this book. I have no opinion on this book and I have absolutely nothing else to say.
2419407510	اول یه جمله بگم: خاله‌زنکی‌ترین کتابی بود که تو زندگیم خوندم!کتاب داستان زندگی کاترینه که با اشنایانش به سفر می‌ره و اونجا دوستان جدیدی پیدا می‌کنه، ماجراهای نسبتا رمانتیکی اتفاق می‌افته و در همین حین، سرشاره از گفتگوهای خاله‌زنکی در مورد این و اون.شخصیت‌پردازی کتاب نسبتا خوب بود ولی از نظر داستانی از دید من حرف خاصی برای گفتن نداشت! توی ویکی‌پدیا خوندم که آستن قصد نداشته این کتاب رو چاپ کنه، بعد از مرگش چاپش کردن و من با خودم می‌گم ای کاش به خواسته‌ش احترام می‌ذاشتن!با ارفاق دو دادم.+ به هیچ وجه کتاب رو با صدای پریوش زاهدی گوش ندین! اصلا توصیه نمی‌شه و بدترین تجربه‌ی صوتی گوش دادنم بود.
4170357714	catherine is just like me fr (completely delusional)
1464866690	Me sorprendió gratamente "La abadía de Northanger" y aunque hay cosas que no me gustaron mucho es una obra más interesante y mejor lograda que "Emma" a mi parecer.La heroina del libro creo llama mucho a simpatía, no es tan soberbia ni autosuficiente como Emma por ejemplo, Catherine Morland de hecho pasa en sus peripecias muy humanas por desengaños, es para mí la novela de las desilusiones.Ella es una chica muy inocente y un poco timorata que es invitada por los esposos Allen a pasar una temporada en los balnearios de Bath, donde parece que lo único que busca la gente que va allí es divertirse. Conoce entonces a los hermanos Thorpe, La encantadora Isabella y el insoportable Jhon. Pero luego de conocer al segundo de los Tilney será invitada a pasar un tiempo en la abadía de Northanger que da el título a la novela.Considero este libro más serio y más interesante que "Emma", el tema amoroso está siempre presente pero no es tratado a juego sino como algo más real y concreto a pesar de que la autora es Jane Austen, así mismo el ambiente de tensión que se vive por muchos momentos le dan la importancia que no he visto en otra de sus obras que me pareció muy liviana. Igual a pesar de los cambios frecuentes me sigue pareciendo poco profunda y también no me gustó sobre todo que note que la última parte del libro parecía otra la protagonista, no recuerdo a Catherine al inicio tan incisiva y curiosa, es como si en la última parte se hubieran forzado ciertas cosas.Las desilusiones también la hacen más interesante. Es un libro que me gustó, le pusiera tres estrellas pero el cambio de escenarios y el personaje de Catherine que me cayó bien hacen que le dé 4.Espero este año que viene por fin leer algunas de sus grandes novelas como "Sensatez y sentimientos", "Orgullo y prejuicio" o "Persuasión" que adrede he dejado al final.
2677032328	I remember howling with laughter while reading this one. The movie adaptation was just terrible and didn't capture the gauche but feisty young heroine, Catherine. I remember being a tad disappointed with Henry Tilney: what a stuffed shirt I thought he was! (Hey, what did I know, I was a gauche teen, myself!) Jane Austen is one of my absolute favourite authors. Every time I re-read her books, I get something new out of them. My personal favourite is Persuasion (all that regret and stoicism! Austen broke off her own engagement with Harris Bigg-Wither, but her suitor died shortly thereafter, so there were no second chances for her, sadly). Pride and Prejudice is neck and neck with Persuasion: shall we call it a tie? Emma was also a riot, and downright entertaining. It was a sad day when I realized I had read everything she'd written!
575568766	Northanger Abbey is really underappreciated as a Jane Austen novel and is one of my favorites. It's a sendup of gothic romance and is very entertaining. I'm dying to see someone do a good retelling! Catherine is a rather sweet and naive young woman with a love of gothic novels and an overactive imagination that gets her into trouble! It's been awhile since I read this one and I very much enjoyed revisiting the story. Thematically this really feels like a YA coming of age story and it always makes me laugh!
3120427720	the love-bombing Isabella put Catherine through should be considered criminal
32530659	Though posthumously published, Northanger Abbey was Austen's first novel to be written, completed in its original form, according to her sister Cassandra's recollections, before the end of the 18th century, when the author was no more than 24, though she apparently edited it some later. Many secondary descriptions and reviews of it tend to emphasize Austen's comparative inexperience as a writer at the time and to stress the idea that it's a "parody" of the popular Gothic novels of the day; it's presented almost as sort of a shady poor relation to the rest of the Austen canon, so despite having watched a film version (see below) I wasn't expecting quite the same quality from this work as from other Austen novels I'd read.Happily (at least as far as my own reaction and perceptions go; "your mileage may vary") my expectations were exceeded; I didn't find a marked difference between this book and other Austen novels in terms of style, thematic concerns, and literary vision. Already in this first novel, her prose is as much a pleasure to read as it would be later: polished, stately, incisive, conveying a wealth of meaning as only Austen can, and brimming with her trademark dry humor. Her observant eye already takes impressions from life around her and uses them to delineate realistic characters brought sharply to life, and liked or disliked by the reader as much as if they were real people. And her distaste for sham, snobbery, selfishness, pretension and materialistic greed, and her converse celebration of honesty, integrity, kindness and relationships based on genuine caring, is as palpable as it would be later. She already concentrates her vision on a young, single female protagonist, and sets her tale strictly in the social milieu she knew herself, the world of the mostly rural well-to-do. (Two important characters here, Henry Tilney and heroine Catherine's father, are country clergy, as was Austen's own father.) Young people's concerns and interests, in Regency society (and later!), being what they are, her heroine may not stay single by the novel's end. :-) But Austen's interest in telling her tale is about more than just "girl meets boy;" this is a novel with serious (under all its humor) moral and social messages that go beyond light romance.The book does have its unique features compared to other Austen novels. It's the only one where, in the speech of one character, she uses the device of eliding part of a swear word ("d___") to indicate profane speech. In her later novels, at least the ones I've read so far, she just ignores the idea of profanity; but some Regency "gentlemen" (self-styled) did talk that way, and in this case I found it revelatory of character. She also at times blithely ignores the "fourth wall" to address the reader directly, to more of an extent than I remember in her other books; but she doesn't overuse the technique and she knows how to use it for good effect, so it didn't bother me. This is also one of her shorter novels, and as such a relatively quick read (though you'll still want to take your time with the prose, to fully understand and savor it).She also does here, and not in any of her other novels, openly play at times with the conventions of the period's Gothic novels, which Catherine and Isabella (and Henry!) read with enjoyment and refer to at times. Austen's own literary vision is proto-Realist, not Romantic; when she writes, she's concerned with the prosaic and close-to-home, not the macabre and exotic, and she doesn't apologize for that. Indeed, by contrasting Catherine's characteristics as a heroine with those of her Romantic counterparts, and by making a point that Catherine's novel-fueled fantasies of melodramatic wrongdoing in Gothic mansions have no basis in reality and run contrary to the normal course of contemporary English life, she makes a case for more Realist portrayals. But if she pokes some fun at her Gothic/Romantic contemporaries, it's gentle fun; her allusions to plot elements and characters in The Mysteries of Udolpho prove that she'd read it (as I did prior to reading this, and that background was beneficial for this read, though not essential), and, I'd judge, read it for pleasure, not holding her nose for "research." :-) And her spirited defense here of novels in general certainly includes Romantic novels, which in her day made up the bulk of the fare available to novel readers. Personally, I wouldn't go so far as to call this novel an actual parody of the Gothic style, and I don't think criticism of the Gothic is really the central theme.This is another case where I first experienced this Austen novel through a movie adaptation, again a BBC production, filmed in 1987 (https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091649/ ). Although I enjoyed it a lot at the time, I'd watched it some years ago and had forgotten some of the plot lines, so I can't fairly assess how close the adaptation is. (I can say that the theme of Catherine's excessive imagination, fanned by Gothic novels she's read, is stressed more in the movie, and creates more conflict, than it does in the novel; neither Catherine's vivid melodramatic fantasy on the road to Bath, nor the memorable line, "Perhaps it is possible to read too many novels!" appear at all in the book.) While I can recommend the movie, it's definitely no substitute for reading the novel!
3966938260	Don’t have too many thoughts on this one to be honest. I thought that it was fine, the characters were interesting enough and Austen’s writing is absolutely gorgeous. I’m giving it a three largely based on the fact that I simply wasn’t as engaged with the plot or the characters as I wanted to be. It’s not that it was bland, and I do truly love the writing in this, but I was also bored at the same time. So yeah, that was that. For some reason, it wasn’t as memorable as I would have liked compared to some of the other Austen books that I have read, but it could also just be that I’ve been somewhat busy with other things in life that I wasn’t able to focus as much on this as I wanted to. 6/10
4390741999	Mi primera novela de Jane Austen fue un agasajo. Por supuesto que mi parte favorita fue Catherine sintiendo que estaba dentro de una novela gótica, buscando oscuros secretos, manuscritos olvidados y pasajes dentro de Northanger pero la verdad también disfruté mucho el estire y afloja del romance. Es una novela que me hizo sentir desesperación y hartazgo de los Thorpe, pero también amor por Catherine y Henry; muy bello todo. En 2022 finalmente leeré Orgullo y Prejuicio, lo prometo.
3649572962	I read 'Northanger Abbey' as part of my reading all of Jane Austen's works video project on YouTube, check it out: https://youtu.be/uzCCZOE-RSMI enjoyed this Gothic classic by Jane Austen a lot! I LOVED the nods to Ann Radcliffe and Mysteries of Udolpho due to how much I love Radcliffe and her works, and especially the mention of The Italian which is my favourite book by Radcliffe (and my favourite classic).
183870219	This is Jane Austen's first book. I found it rather dry...not my favourite.
3743441568	Que hermosa lectura, me encantó 🥰💕La abadia de Northanger es un libro que tenía muchas ganas de leer. Por un lado adoro a Jane Austen y quiero leer todas sus novelas y otro otro lado me gustó entrar a este libro sin saber nada de él.La historia nos presenta a Catherine, una protagonista que van a amar. Ella es amable, ama leer novelas góticas y compartirlas con su amiga y asistir a bailes y conocer gente. Al comienzo de esta historia decide ir al balneario de Bath por una temporada con unos amigos de sus padres. Allí Catherine conocerá a un montón de personajes que la mantendrán ocupada de mente y corazón.Engaños, amistad, traición y la visita a una hermosa Abadia en dónde Catherine se sentirá dentro de una de las novelas que tanto ama leer😌.Me gustó mucho este libro. Llegué a conocer bien a los personajes. Hubieron alguno (no daré nombres pero quienes lo leyeron ya se pueden imaginar) que me sacaron de quiso y en algunas escenas no podía creer que Catherine estaba siendo tan manipulada y se dejara llevar. También hay personajes hermosos que amaran con todo su corazón.El interés romántico me encantó. Muy gracioso y divertido. Está a la altura de Darcy completamente.🥰Recomiendo mucho esta novela, en especial si les gustó orgullo y prejuicio y Jane Eyre. Tiene la trama del primero y el ambiente del segundo.Yo leyendo la abadia de Northanger: 🥺😊🥰🙈💕😱
3010752714	I adore you so much, Austen 💓Northanger Abbey has been on my priority reading list for years now and finally I picked it up this week. And heck, I just couldn’t put it down. It remains now as one of those few books which kept me up all night 🌷It’s a 4 star read for me as I was expecting a bit of gothic as the plot promised. However, I would say it’s just a good little romantic story with a little bit of twists and turns here and there. The language is fairly easy as one can expect from a Jane Austen book. The book is short with short chapters which I find really convenient while reading.I appreciate the side characters and I love the thought provoking lines the author had fit in between the storyline regarding the gender stereotypes as well as the unrealistic expectations of the society.However short the story is, I still feel it could have been short than it is and I feel the plot wasn’t well etched out. But things ended well the way it should. I love the book talks and the discussions on reading. The best part I would say. I would have loved the book more if the focus was more on the main characters.Nevertheless a good read. I am just on a classic reading roll 🥳
596363024	I think it's time for me to make another Austen Confession:Pride and Prejudice isn't my favourite Austen novel, and in fact, is rapidly going down the list. Now don't be alarmed, my order of Austen novels in terms of preference always changes, my top favourite varies from day to day, and I DO LIKE PRIDE AND PREJUDICE (feeling the need to yell before one of the Janeites puts words in my mouth and tells me I don't like it), but I have often felt that I liked it as much as I do mainly because it's so popular and kind of goes accordingly that, if you're a Janeite, you love P&P. But - continuing on my honest thread - Austen's two novels that have surprised me the most and provided me the most enjoyment in terms of reading experience have been Mansfield Park and Northanger Abbey. Mansfield Park was long, and intricate, and moralizing, and awesome and compelling, but this book...it was so charming, and elegant, and fun, and breezy!!How does one read this and remain unaffected? How does one read this and not fall madly under the irresistible charm of the romantic wonder that is Henry Tilney? I switched to classic-reading-mode and started this novel expecting a long introduction, many pages of exposition and background story, a slow developing plot and few dialogue. You can imagine my surprise when I began and instead of encountering any of those things, found the book to be so easy and simple, and so entertaining and funny! Northanger Abbey is simply a delight. Sure, its supposed to be a parody of Gothic novels and Austen is poking fun at Bath society and bla, bla, bla, but in truth I found it to be so relatable, so true and so real, that the parody aspect of it was pretty lost on me. In fact, had I not known that it was a satire of the Gothic novel, I never would have figured it out. Yes, I can be very stupid at times, and perhaps that is one of the reasons I could understand and relate to Catherine so well. Not that Catherine is stupid, mind you, but I mean that her innocence and lack of affectations made her really loveable and relatable, and her way of amplifying certain things and linking them to situations read about in novels reminded me so much of what I actually do in real life that, in short, I love Catherine and she’s the sweetest of Austen’s heroines. AND SHE’S ADDICTED TO NOVELS, FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE! While I’m at it, might as well confess something else: Where I to be invited to an Abbey, or in fact, any really cool old house, I would totally be looking for an old chest, or an old manuscript, and make up stories about the owners or anyone connected with the place. It’s no secret that I have an over-abundant imagination, and I DO imagine things-that-only-happen-in-novels in real life. The only difference between Catherine and me is that I don’t take myself seriously and never actually believe my stories. Or almost never ;) But yeah, old Abbey, chests, cabinets and shut-up apartments? I would be feeling like a heroine and exploring everywhere and inventing stories too. Want proof? I recently moved in a big old house myself, and what did I do? Explored every nook and corner to find a secret passage (still no luck, but I’m convinced it’s there). Which part do I like best? The creepy basement full of darkness and old storage rooms, and, rumor has it, ghosts. Where did I read this book? Took myself off to one of the attic rooms and fell asleep to the sound of the howling wind. Unfortunately our attic is not at all interesting, and perfectly habitable, and there was nothing in the room save a bed, but it was fun nevertheless to be up there reading Northanger Abbey and wishing I had some old parchment to decipher. To bad there wasn’t a storm outside, too. So, see? Jane Austen may have intended her novel to poke fun at Gothic novels of the time, but she unwittingly struck a chord with me, not because I thought the story hilariously made fun of Gothic novels, but because it was so real and relatable and just so much my kind of thing that now I feel very dumb for liking and enjoying the aspect of it that is supposed to be taken lightly and indulgently and hahahaha-Austen-is-so-clever-and-Gothic-novels-are-ridiculous. Yes, I know there are many ways to interpret a novel, but seriously, if no one had ever told me, I would still be blissfully ignorant of the fact that Northanger Abbey is supposedly a satire. I thought it was all serious when Catherine finally unlocked the cabinet, or when she went to see Mrs. Tilney’s room. IT WAS SO EXCITING!!Northanger Abbey is definitely a book I will re-read, and re-read, and re-read. Who could possibly get enough of Mr. Tilney??? I knew from having seen the 2007 movie adaptation that he was charming, but I beg your pardon? In the book? Oh my goodness!!! He was completely wonderful!! I LOVE teasing heroes with a great sense of humour, forever twisting words and gently laughing at others. Argh, he was so cute!! There was so much witty and clever dialogue in that book, but Henry’s lines were just priceless. Listen to this speech:"'And you, Miss Morland – my stupid sister has mistaken all your clearest expressions. You talked of expected horrors in London – and instead of instantly conceiving, as any rational creature would have done, that such words could relate only to a circulating library, she immediately pictured to herself a mob of three thousand men assembling in St. George’s Fields, the Bank attacked, the Tower threatened, the streets on London flowing with blood, a detachment of the Twelfth Light Dragoons (the hopes of the nation) called up from Northampton to quell the insurgents, and the gallant Captain Frederick Tilney, in the moment of charging at the head of his troop, knocked off his horse by a brickbat from an upper window. Forgive her stupidity. The fears of the sister have added to the weakness of the woman; but she is by no means a simpleton in general.'"I laughed so hard at this, way more than I should have, but just LOL. Henry has as much imagination as Catherine, and reason number five hundred as to why they are perfectly well-matched. And then what follows, oh my gosh:Eleanor: Tell her that you think very highly of the understanding of women.Henry: Miss Morland, I think very highly of the understanding of all the women in the world – especially of those – whoever they may be – with whom I happen to be in company.Eleanor: That is not enough. Be more serious.Henry:Miss Morland, no one can think more highly of the understanding of women than I do. In my opinion, nature has given them so much that they never find it necessary to use more than half.I just died.Ugh, Henry Tilney is just so ridiculously marriageable, it’s NOT FAIR!!I completely loved Northanger Abbey. My only complaint is that I wanted more Henry & Catherine. And I wanted a spelled out love declaration!! But aside that, perfect :DAnd I have a sudden inkling now to try The Mysteries of Udolpho, to see what the raving by Regency heroines is all about. Ten to one it’ll be boring though, haha!Group read with Soph’s Jane Austen group for September/October 2015.
5473118049	—4 stars—“The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.”While this might not be my favourite Austen, I still adore it.Catherine is the heroine who I relate to the most—her love of reading, and her fascination with the macabre.However, this one i feel would benefit from being longer. Unlike Persuasion, where the love story is already set up, the romance in this book feels unfinished, unpolished, and incomplete.It’s by no means bad, just a little underdone!I’m more invested in the character’s friendships in this one—it’s truly the trope of best friend’s older brother!The more I read Austen, the more I see how her works were part of the foundation of modern romances today...Thanks for reading!❤️
1968546145	Ingeniosa, genial. Me encanta esta novela de Jane Austen en que como casi siempre nada es lo que parece y todo esconde una razón lógica. Me encantan los personajes, la trama, la critica divertida y velada a la novela gótica y a la sociedad del momento. La novela te mantiene totalmente pegado a las hojas del libro; no puedes dejarlo hasta que no llegas al final. Me encanta ese final, en el que cada uno de los personajes encuentra lo que se merece.Si has leído Orgullo y Prejuicio no sé a que estás esperando.Para mí, mi novela favorita de Jane Austen, después de Orgullo y Prejuicio. Una novela que sin duda leeré más veces.Genial segunda relectura,.. sobre todo después de haber leído los Misterios de Udolfo,...
1309865498	Probably even a 4.5 for me! I really really enjoyed this book SO MUCH. The satire in it cracked me up, especially at the beginning, and I really loved Catherine as a protagonist! There definitely wasn't as much action & drama as other novels from this time period I've read (but I mean, it is satire...) but regardless, still wonderful.
5795342301	⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️✨4.5What a wonderfully pleasant surprise! Possibly the lesser known of Austen's works but no less brilliant 👌🏼I can't decide whether to round up or down🤣 *I might change my mind in a few days*
5752825955	نورثنگر آبی /کاترینوقتی میرید سراغ کلاسیک و جین آستین قاعدتاً یا به کلاسیک خوانی علاقه دارید یا به سبک جین آستین و شاید هر دو. اگر هیچکدوم و باز هم چنین کتابی رو انتخاب میکنید، به نظرم بیشتر نقد متوجه خود شماست نه کتاب، مثل اینکه یک کتاب ترسناک بخونیم و بعد انتقاد کنیم که اصلا من رو نخندوند. خلاصه که با دقت انتخاب کنید، و توجه کنید این کتاب دویست سال پیش نوشته شده که خیلی چیزها با امروز متفاوت بوده، بگذریم. داستان در مورد دختر نوجوانی به نام کاترینه که در روستایی زندگی می‌کنه و به معنای واقعی معمولیه، هم در هوش، هم قیافه، هم خانواده و ... با درخواست یکی از دوستان خانوادگی با اونها به شهر میره، اونجا زندگی جدید تجربه می‌کنه با روابط جدید، و مثل تمام آثار کلاسیک عشق هم پای اصلی داستانه. علاقه‌ی کاترین به کتابهای ترسناک و تاثیرش روی قسمتی از کتاب و نتیجه‌گیری‌ای که از این اتفاق می‌کنه جالبه. در مجموع با توجه به چند سطری که ابتدا نوشتم، کتاب بدی نبود و حرفایی برای گفتن داشت.ه
3004391940	This is perhaps the most humorous of the Austen books that I have read-- I absolutely loved her acerbic observations and sarcastic meta commentary. I was also fascinated to see how many echoes there are between this book and SENSE & SENSIBILITY. Ultimately, not the best Austen, but still a winner and a lovely book to spend time with
1663542872	Μεγαλώνω, κ όσο κι αν αυτό με δυσαρεστεί γενικά, ειδικά, δεν μπορώ παρά μόνο να χαρώ που ωριμάζω και μπορώ να εκτιμήσω τα βιβλία της Τζέην Ώστεν, όλο και περισσότερό . Η παλαιότερη ανυπομονησία μου, οπού όταν διάβαζα αναζητούσα διακαώς εντάσεις και αγωνία δεν βοηθούσαν ώστε να την απολαύσω όσο θα ήθελα και όσο φυσικά της αξίζει.Διότι η Τζέην Ώστεν στα βιβλία της δεν γνωρίζει τι θα πει αγωνία, δεν έχει παθιάρικη πένα σε καμία περίπτωση, δεν συγγράφει για τραγικούς έρωτες ούτε φυσικά για τραγικούς ήρωες. Οι ήρωες της είναι απλοί καθημερινοί άνθρωποι που αρέσκονται να πηγαίνουν εκδρομή στο Μπαθ και να κουβεντιάζουν με τις ώρες. Και θα μου πει κανείς τότε «Γιατί να διαβάσω βιβλίο της Ώστεν;» και ίσως πιο συγκεκριμένα «Γιατί να διαβάσω Το Αββαείο του Νορθάνγκερ;» Διότι όταν αύτη η συγγραφέας πλάθει χαρακτήρες και τους αφήνει ελευθέρους στο περιβάλλον που δημιουργεί, ο αναγνώστης απλά τα χάνει. Η σκιαγράφηση των χαρακτήρων την καθιστά για εμένα μια από τις μεγαλύτερες δημιουργούς πάνω σε αυτό τον τομέα. Και είναι τόση η δεξιοτεχνία της που όχι, δεν τους περιγράφει, αλλά αφήνει την συμπεριφορά τους, την ομιλία τους και την εξέλιξη τους να μιλήσει για το ποιόν τους. Αυτό που λάτρεψα στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο είναι οι συνεχείς καυστικές αναφορές της συγγραφέως, μέσα από τα μάτια του αφηγητή, αυτές οι ατάκες ήταν πέρα για πέρα απολαυστικές. Το εύρος των χαρακτήρων δε, είναι τόσο μεγάλο και τόσο τέλειο, που θα θεωρήσει κανείς ότι η Ώστεν δεν έκανε τίποτα άλλο στην καθημερινότητα της από το να παρατηρεί και να μελετά χαρακτήρες. Η αφήγηση πάλι, είναι εκπληκτική. Πώς να εμβαθύνω; Θα πω απλά την μία και μοναδική εντύπωση που έχω και είναι η εξής: Η αφήγηση της πρέπει να είναι ένα από τα πρώτα πράγματα που πρέπει να μελετά ένας υποψήφιος συγγραφέας. Η Ωστεν κάλλιστα αναδεικνύοντας τα κείμενα της, θα μπορούσε να αναφωνεί «Κοιτάξτε με, μιλάω για ανόητα καθημερινά πράγματα με τόσο ενδιαφέροντα τρόπο, και στο τέλος σας έχω επισημάνει τόσο σπουδαία πράγματα για την ανθρώπινη κοινωνία και την ηθική χωρίς φυσικά να το περιμένετε!» Το Αββαείο του Νορθάνγκερ με εξέπληξε ευχάριστα. Δεν θεωρείται από τα κορυφαία της αλλά είναι έξυπνο, ευχάριστο και κυλάει γρήγορα. Κινείται ανάμεσα στη σάτιρα, ειδικά το πρώτο σκέλος του, που είναι γραμμένο με πολύ χιούμορ και κέφι και στον σοβαρό ρεαλισμό στο δεύτερο σκέλος.Επίσης με εξέπληξε γιατί μέσα στο έργο η Ωστεν κάνει συνεχείς παρεμβάσεις, και ναι παρακαλώ, πολλές φορές μας εκφράζει της γνώμη της για διάφορα θέματα όπως, για τις σχέσεις των δύο φύλων, για την ηθική (αγαπημένο της), για λογοτεχνικά έργα και συγγραφείς και για τον ρόλο των λογοτεχνικών κριτικών. Τα δύο τελευταία θέματα που ανέφερα θα μπορούσα να πω ότι καθιστά το έργο στα λεγόμενα βιβλιοφιλικά.Εν κατακλείδι μου άρεσε πολύ.
1111549748	“When a young lady is (by whatever means) introduced into a dwelling of this kind, she is always lodged apart from the rest of the family. While they snugly repair to their own end of the house, she is formally conducted by Dorothy, the ancient housekeeper, up a different staircase, and along many gloomy passages, into an apartment never used since some cousin or kin died in it about twenty years before. Can you stand such a ceremony as this? Will not your mind misgive you when you find yourself in this gloomy chamber—too lofty and extensive for you, with only the feeble rays of a single lamp to take in its size—its walls hung with tapestry exhibiting figures as large as life, and the bed, of dark green stuff or purple velvet, presenting even a funereal appearance? Will not your heart sink within you?”Marvel comic (!) coverJane Austen channeling Stephen King Charlotte Brontë, what’s not to like? Oddly enough that passage quotes above reminds me of Michael Jackson’s Thriller music video, with MJ trying to spook his date shortly before the disco zombies show up. Northanger Abbey is probably Austen’s funniest book, sending up gothic novels with glee. However, perhaps Austen was somewhat concerned about the more fainthearted among her constant readers, who probably formed a sizable section of her readership, so she reassures them from time to time:“Neither robbers nor tempests befriended them, nor one lucky overturn to introduce them to the hero. Nothing more alarming occurred than a fear, on Mrs. Allen’s side, of having once left her clogs behind her at an inn, and that fortunately proved to be groundless.”Northanger Abbey’s protagonist is 17-year-old Catherine Morland who likes to read the same sort of books I do, that is what passed for horror fiction in those days. Being a highly impressionable girl she sometimes has trouble separating fantasy from reality, something of a Don Quixote syndrome but not so certifiable. Nothing spooky happens in the first half of the book where Catherine visits Bath with the Allens, her neighbours, where she meets her new BFF, the flirty Isabella Thorpe, and her annoying brother John. Better still, she is introduced to dashing Henry Tilney and her nice sister Eleanor who live in the titular Northanger Abbey, where she is invited to stay for a few weeks*. She gladly accepts of course, and her imagination immediately goes into overdrive.Soon after arriving at the Abbey she goes looking for secret passages, investigates an ancient chest, sifting through dusty manuscripts and forms suspicion of General Tilney, Henry’s father. Did he do his wife in? There is another side to this novel that has nothing to do with gothic satire; a story of false friendship, deception, misunderstanding, heartbreak, and romance. The sort of elements you can find in any Austen novel, but for me, the novel shines when Austen is having mischievous fun outside her standard storyline.Catherine does not start out as one of Austen’s most prepossessing heroines, she is not one of Austen’s wise, longsuffering protagonists like Elizabeth Bennet, she is more akin to Emma Woodhouse from Emma with her naïveté and quickness to draw conclusions about people in spite of not being at all worldly. I usually find Austen’s male love interests rather austere, serious and boring. Mr. Darcy would suck the life out of any party he shows up in, Henry Tilney, however, is surprisingly humorous and occasionally mischievous. Catherine's bestie, Isabella Thorpe, starts off as an average chatterbox bestie character, but her subsequent gold diggery makes her much more interesting (if less appealing), her brother John seems like an ill-mannered oaf throughout, I kind of like him, his loutishness is good for a giggle. Catherine & Isabella (AKA Felicity Jones & Carey Mulligan) from the 2007 film adaptation.Another interesting aspect of this is how “meta” it is. Austen often addresses the reader directly, breaking the fourth wall, and discuss the value of novels in comparison to more highbrow literature and nonfiction. It is a little ironic that now her books are often considered highbrow. Of course, her prose is always one of the main attractions of reading her books, whatever you think of her often trivial storyline, her prose and her wit are always worth the time investment. Still, Northanger Abbey is no Wuthering Heights and nothing horrible really happen, after one or two timidly spooky scenes the niceness of Austenverse reasserts itself and things work out just fine for Catherine. Is this a spoiler? Surely not! Catherine Morland is not Tess of thed'Urbervilles which I suppose is comforting if you are reading Jane Austen. At least I never thought I would see the word “Necromancer” in one of her novels, that made me chuckle.Northanger Abbey is second tier Jane Austen, I think, but it is refreshingly different in some parts and a pleasure to read.Notes:* Interesting how, in those days, almost complete strangers are invited to stay at people’s homes for months on end just to hang out.• This review has been completely rewritten, replacing the original review from 2014. So most of the comments from 2014 don’t apply!• Audiobook credit: Beautifully read (as always) by Elizabeth Klett for Librivox (available for free). Thank you.Quotes:“I will not adopt that ungenerous and impolitic custom so common with novel-writers, of degrading by their contemptuous censure the very performances, to the number of which they are themselves adding—joining with their greatest enemies in bestowing the harshest epithets on such works, and scarcely ever permitting them to be read by their own heroine, who, if she accidentally take up a novel, is sure to turn over its insipid pages with disgust.”“If the heroine of one novel be not patronized by the heroine of another, from whom can she expect protection and regard? I cannot approve of it. Let us leave it to the reviewers to abuse such effusions of fancy at their leisure, and over every new novel to talk in threadbare strains of the trash with which the press now groans. Let us not desert one another; we are an injured body.”“Provided that nothing like useful knowledge could be gained from them, provided they were all story and no reflection, she had never any objection to books at all. But from fifteen to seventeen she was in training for a heroine; she read all such works as heroines must read to supply their memories with those quotations which are so serviceable and so soothing in the vicissitudes of their eventful lives.” Art by Austen Meadows
614972341	Siempre me gusto este libro porque creo que es extremadamente diferente e innovador. Es más que una novela romántica, tiene algo de critica, tiene algo de parodia y mucho sarcasmo. No se parece a ningún otro libro de esta autora, y creo que es el más ameno de todos ellos.Por un lado, Jane pasa completamente por alto el protocolo de la sociedad londinense, incluso se burla de él. Por otro se descarga de lo lindo sobre varias cuestiones, sociedad, críticos literarios, lectores y novelistas. Incluso se mofa un poco de la manera convencional del trato en las novelas, de la forma en la que los personajes se describen y presentan, entre otras cosas. Es único.Algo que me encanta: no tenemos un narrador, la escritora nos habla en papel de escritora y todo el tiempo somos conscientes de que estamos leyendo una novela y que ella la está escribiendo. Estarán pensado "Duh, en todos los libros pasa eso". Bien, no. Austen interactua constantemente con el lector a lo largo de la historia y no permite que en ningún momento te compenetres en ella lo suficiente como para olvidar que, aunque hayan pasado siglos, del otro lado de las letras que lees hay alguien que las escribió.Más allá de la historia, me parece un libro sumamente interesante.
306922017	Well I’ve bumped this up a star on a reread. I think this might be my new Austen favourite, bumping Pride and Prejudice off the top spot. It’s interesting that, reading this for the first time at the same age as Catherine Moreland I would have given it a lower rating; many years on, I find Catherine, Henry, Isabelle and the whole semi gothic theme even more appealing.It’s hard to believe this was Austen’s first novel, although I believe she touched it up many times before it was finally published.Recommended!
1029036450	That was slightly ridiculous, but also very fun. Would highly recommend listening to it on audiobook!
2990349664	ARC received in exchange for an honest review. Northanger Abbey is perhaps one of a Jane Austen’s lesser known novels, but it shares all of the same wit and romance, mixed with a gothic feel that makes it ultimately very appealing and atmospheric. Catherine Moreland, our heroine, is the eldest daughter of ten with a love for gothic novels and, as a result, has an overactive imagination and a naivety of the world. When invited to Bath by her wealthy neighbours the Allens, she seizes the chance to act upon this image of a ‘heroine in training’ and make her own story. What she finds instead in the ever charming Mr Tilney, a second son of General Tilney, and friendship in the arms of Isabella Thorne - the queen of the backhanded compliment and outrageous flirt. I enjoyed Catherine very much. She’s a character after my own heart, with a love of novels and an innocent heart. She loves her family dearly, and comes to realise through her many mistakes that happiness doesn’t necessarily come from wealth and a large estate like Northanger Abbey. I particularly enjoyed her conversations with the rather odious John Thorpe and her continued rejection to his unwanted advances, showing she has substance and self respect. Something Mr Thorpe certainly doesn’t have. The novel does feel a little disjointed, with the first taking place in societal Bath and it’s dances before taking on the more mysterious Northanger Abbey in the latter half. I preferred the second, where Catherine’s imagination is able to flourish while trying desperately to get into the good graces of the Tilney family. This doesn’t beat Pride and Prejudice for me, but I do really enjoy Jane Austen’s novels. There’s something comforting and gentle about them that draws me in and makes me feel safe. This edition in particular is also beautiful to look at, which certainly helps. Nothing to do with this edition, but I’ve highly recommend the audible version of this with Emma Thompson narration and full cast. Emma’s voice lends itself so well to Austen, and made the whole experience that extra bit special.
4877740316	3,4 stars.Esperava mais de Jane Austen, talvez esteja mal habituada...As personagens não me convenceram, apesar de Catherine ser a mais genuína.Henry... Não sei, faltou qualquer coisa.E as restantes, demasiado superficiais.No entanto, estava sempre à espera que melhorasse, ou pelo menos que a Abadia tivesse um enorme segredo, assim meio mórbido.Confesso que me perdi um pouco na leitura, sentindo-me um pouco entediada.As aparências e as finanças sempre com um papel relevante. Em Bath, Catherine deu a ilusão que seria de melhores famílias, que na realidade é.John irritou-me imenso, não acrescentou nada à história, apenas uma personagem ridícula, que atrapalhou, é verdade, mas era dispensável.
4541902668	Rating: ⭐⭐⭐ Genre: ClassicsCatherine Morland hopes for an adventure similar to others she has read about in books when she is granted the chance to stay with the Allen family in Bath. After being quickly acclimated to society, she meets her brother James's good friend, Isabella Thorpe, and her brother John. The two girls become close friends. Catherine also meets Henry Tilney, a charming young man from a respectable family. When invited to visit the Tilney estate, Northanger Abbey, Catherine realizes that there are more things that matter in this world when it comes to love. She learns it the hard way.This is one of those classics that starts good and promising, then through the middle, it flattens and goes nowhere until the end. Jane Austen’s writing is really lovely. However, the plot of the story is too loose and unfocused. I’m not sure how I feel about the characters. The main character is naive for her age, and the other characters are nothing special. This is supposed to be Jane Austen’s attempt at the gothic parody genre. I’m not sure if the influence was that strong in this novel.The good thing about the story is that it was not too long, so you could push yourself to finish it. What I don’t understand is why the book was named Northanger Abbey, despite the fact that the protagonist doesn’t go there until the very end of the book. And when things started to get interesting, the author decided to wrap it up quickly and end the book. This is a predictable story that could’ve been more interesting if Northanger Abbey’s parts were bigger than all the fillings in the middle of the book.
4317870825	La protagonista de esta novela, Catherine Morland, es una joven de 17 años fanática de las novelas góticas. Se podría decir que padece del síndrome de Don Quijote: su imaginación activa y su fanatismo por las novelas la lleva a malinterpretar o fantasear en exceso. Después de todo, ¿Quién no ha querido que su aburrida y anodina vida tenga algo de aventura y tensión, como en las ficciones? De modo que este libro es una parodia del género gótico y también reflexiona sobre otros temas que podemos encontrar en la literatura de Austen, como el clasismo y las convenciones sociales.
5157486191	WTF was I doing reading a Jane Austen novel (my first)? What wood nymph, what sprite whispered quietly to me, "'Northanger Abbey'. You really should."?It happened like this: For a time, I fell into the YouTube rabbit hole of BookTuber channels, hosted by bibliophiles who - seemingly for the most part - focus on certain genres. You'd maybe be surprised by how many readers only read romance, or only read fantasy, or only (esp.) horror. It's enough to suggest arrested development. One such BTer loved all things gothic, which included examples from classic literature, so I learned things about such works as 'The Monk' and 'The Italian'. ~ which brought the host to the introduction of (and exultation about) 'Northanger Abbey', since its heroine trainee, Catherine Morland, has something of an obsession with such books. Indeed, her preoccupation with them is what propels the novel's centerpiece (when the meaning of the title finally becomes clear).I had more of a leaning to things gothic than I did toward 'Emma' or 'Pride and Prejudice' (though I'd seen a BBC version) so I figured on giving Jane's actual world a try. Early on, it's rather amusing reading about a 17-year-old girl's love of dark fiction. It was also instructive to witness Austen's own voice on the topic of militant novelists' united vigilance in the face of considerable apathy re: novels of the day: Let us not desert one another; we are an injured body. ...there seems almost a general wish of decrying the capacity and undervaluing the labour of the novelist, and of slighting the performances which have only genius, wit, and taste to recommend them. "I am no novel reader--I seldom look into novels--Do not imagine that *I* often read novels--It is really very well for a novel."--Such is the common cant.--"And what are you reading, Miss--?" "Oh, it is only a novel!" replies the young lady; while she lays down her book with affected indifference, or momentary shame.-- ... only some work in which the greatest powers of the mind, in which the most thorough knowledge of human nature, the happiest delineation of its varieties, the liveliest effusions of wit and humour are conveyed to the world in the best chosen language. BUT... though I didn't dislike 'NA', and didn't really mind its early-1800s parade of luxuriously compound sentences, I would have liked a larger dose of the gothic. It only appears rather late in the novel; effectively and somewhat chillingly but of limited scope.The bulk of the work falls into the dual category of female friendships / boyfriend material. As such, my interest was less harnessed. But Austen certainly writes well and has a keen sense of character (here esp. in the way she draws Catherine's new-found friend Isabella, a gushy young lady who seems to harbor a budding duplicity of which she is unaware). Will I read more of Austen's work? Hmm... I can't commit. But, all things considered, this was pleasant / intriguing-enough - well, for a novel. ;)
4472868829	** spoiler alert ** General Tilney is not a gentleman. This burlesque satire is Austen’s first novel. The heroine Catherine is a naive imaginative 18 year old. In her first visit to Bath she is unlucky in meeting a gold digger in Isabella who has eyes on her brother James. Isabella’s brother John Thorpe is a rake and given to lie and exaggerate. Catherine who has a strong moral code does not understand that not all people tell the truth or exaggerate such as Isabella. This is partly due to her being in the care of Mrs Allen in Bath who gives no help to Catherine at all and is a brilliant portrayal by Austen of a stupid woman. She meets Henry Tilney and his sister Eleanor who are honest and tell the truth and like Catherine. Thanks to John Thorpe a liar and exaggerator their father a General believes Catherine is a wealthy heiress. She is invited to Northanger Abbey where thanks to a diet of gothic novels goes off on flights of imagination. The finding of the laundry list in the cabinet is hilarious when she realizes what it is. The General finds out she is not a heiress and cruelly sends her home unattended. Catherine then receives a letter from Isabella trying to get James back and shows Catherine the realities of life. I liked the happy ending of Henry ignoring his father’s greed and snobbishness. An entertaining novel which shows the skill of the author in humor and parody. Austen uses literary burlesque with social and moral commentary. Isabella’s true nature of her love of money and thinking of only of herself is revealed by the letter to Catherine and her engagement to James Morland. A good story with Austen showing her early wit and although she didn’t want the novel published I for one am glad it was.
2873649760	One more book down in my venture of becoming a lifelong fan of Jane Austen. Northanger Abbey is an amazing satire that delves deep into cultural criticism and the perception of human mind on all things surrounding them. It also shows the author’s own skeptical beliefs on making a living as a writer, firmly establishing how all forms of literature are valid and worthy of being read.The characters themselves go through amazing development from start to finish. Each of them signify a very different aspect of human nature; I can be pretty sure that had it not been Austen writing them, the characters would have fallen short as flat and one-dimensional, but no, she has a very peculiar way of breathing life into them. I dearly loved Catherine Morland, and the Tilney siblings were my favorite. The descriptions of Bath, and the simple conversations between the characters, the dialogues, and the way Austen talks about books and defends Gothic literature, was lovely. I really appreciate how Austen speaks on these topics given the time and circumstances that this book was written in. Plus, Catherine is a huge reader! (but I have zero idea about those authors she talks of :3 )The book wasn’t at par with Pride and Prejudice for me, but I see no reason to rate it any less. If this book doesn’t take you back into the era of Pump Rooms, horse carriages and Abbeys posing as homes, I don’t know what will.Ugh I really wish there was a half-star rating system because 4 star is too little and 5 star doesn't reflect my feelings for it accurately. 4.5 stars
7419705942	Se acabóoooooooooooooooooooo. Llegué a pensar que me daría un bloqueo lector pero sobreviví!!! Jajajaja. Tengo emociones bastante complejas respecto a este libro. Por una parte tuvo momentos que me mantuvieron entretenida pero quizá la constante narración me cansó de más, volviendo un poco tedioso el leer de corrido. Debo recalcar que la diferencia de edad en nuestros protagonistas me parece bastante evidente y es algo que me impidió ver la historia con otros ojos,,, pero la verdad es que ninguno de los protagonistas de esta historia me resultó interesante en lo más mínimo y los pequeños momentos donde sentí que podían ser un poco más explorados se vieron cortados de una forma muy abrupta. Sobre todo en los últimos capítulos, cada suceso se siente demasiado acelerado y es explicado en un par de párrafos.Teniendo en cuenta la cantidad de hojas desperdiciadas en los primeros días en Bath, llegué a pensar que esta obra fue severamente recortada porque de lo contrario no me explico el cambio tan drástico en escenario. Aunque algo que debo aplaudirle a Austen y la razón por la cual le di 3 estrella y no 2, es que es demasiado buena metiéndonos en la mente de una chica de 17 años. Desde su ingenuidad hasta la forma en que va madurando conforme la historia avanza, creo que la autora hizo un trabajo excelente al meternos dentro de las emociones de Catherine... pero siento que muchos aspectos de sus relaciones y emociones fueron explorados de una manera muy leve y por tanto me deja con una sensación de insatisfacción.
1755114237	3.5 starsfourth read: july 21-22, 2020________________________Third read: January 16-20, 2018every time I reread anything by Austen I find a new favourite scene/line/character. this time it was this gem of a scene:“Ah! [Henry] has got a partner; I wish he had asked you,” said Mrs. Allen; and after a short silence, she added, “he is a very agreeable young man.”“Indeed he is, Mrs. Allen,” said Mrs. Thorpe, smiling complacently; “I must say it, though I am his mother, that there is not a more agreeable young man in the world.”This inapplicable answer might have been too much for the comprehension of many; but it did not puzzle Mrs. Allen, for after only a moment’s consideration, she said, in a whisper to Catherine, “I dare say she thought I was speaking of her son.”ah, Mrs. Allen. you make me chuckle. my new favourite hobby is reading scenes where Austen elegantly but ruthlessly (and hilariously) roasts Mrs. Allen. that's all i have to say on this reread (what can I say? Mrs. Allen is irresistible) ----------------------------------------Second read: August 29-31, 20173.5 stars (I'll rate it up for Henry's sake)Loved this even more the second time around, and boy do I have a lot of thoughts to share:► Gotta admit, I totally underestimated Catherine the first time I read this. She deserves so much more credit for her resolute principles and "general integrity," as Henry puts it. “If I am wrong, I am doing what I believe to be right...If I could not be persuaded into doing what I thought wrong, I never will be tricked into it.”In fact, Henry describes Catherine perfectly when he says she's "open, candid, artless, guileless, with affections strong but simple, forming no pretensions, and knowing no disguise." Not just that, but Catherine, as oblivious as she oftentimes is, is quite observant (some might say too observant)—something in equal parts strengthened and weakened by her introspection. She notices a lot, but is often too insecure to put those observations to use—and who can blame her? She's young, she's barely been out in society, and she's not really sure what goes and what doesn't in terms of social conduct; no wonder she has a hard time making judgements. Naive she is, but dumb she most certainly is not. ► “...but why should he say one thing so positively, and mean another all the while, was most unaccountable! How were people, at that rate, to be understood?” I feel you Catherine, I feel you. ► As for Henry, he is a national treasure; so playful and quick-witted and teasing, but never to the point of being disrespectful or offensive. Oh, and also, A TOTAL FEMINIST. Henry has so many great lines: “Then forming his features into a set smile, and affectedly softening his voice, he added, with a simpering air, 'Have you been long in Bath, madam?''About a week, sir,' replied Catherine, trying not to laugh.'Really!' with affected astonishment.'Why should you be surprised, sir?''Why, indeed!' said he, in his natural tone. 'But some emotion must appear to be raised by your reply, and surprise is more easily assumed, and not less reasonable than any other.'” LOL Henry you sarcastic shit “'As far as I have had opportunity of judging, it appears to me that the usual style of letter–writing among women is faultless, except in three particulars.''And what are they?''A general deficiency of subject, a total inattention to stops, and a very frequent ignorance of grammar...I should no more lay it down as a general rule that women write better letters than men, than that they sing better duets, or draw better landscapes. In every power, of which taste is the foundation, excellence is pretty fairly divided between the sexes.'”again with the lovable sarcasm. MY BOY GETS IT“Miss Morland, no one can think more highly of the understanding of women than I do. In my opinion, nature has given them so much, that they never find it necessary to use more than half.”Actually LOL'd at this. How anyone could not love Henry is beyond me. (THE MAN UNDERSTANDS MUSLIN !!!!)► Now we move on to Isabella, who is, I think, one of Austen's best characters. Isabella is a total fiend, but damn, she's a brilliant character. She's just one of those people who bullshit their way so masterfully through life. If Isabella were a superhero, her power would be bullshit, EASY. Pretty much 99.9% of whatever comes out of her mouth is complete, not-to-be-trusted BS, and yet, she still plays people like a fiddle. Characters like Isabella are why I've said time and time again that Austen writes some of the best characters that you love to hate. As much of a piece of shit as Isabella is, I can imagine her existing in the real world ( people like her probably do), spewing lie after lie to get what she wants—and that's what makes her so great. :')“What one means one day, you know, one may not mean the next. Circumstances change, opinions alter.”Oh, Isabella.► This is a Jane Austen novel, so of course it comes peppered with completely badass feminist gems:“It would be mortifying to the feelings of many ladies, could they be made to understand how little the heart of man is affected by what is costly or new in their attire; how little it is biased by the texture of their muslin, and how unsusceptible of peculiar tenderness towards the spotted, the sprigged, the mull, or the jackonet. Woman is fine for her own satisfaction alone. No man will admire her the more, no woman will like her the better for it.”“She was heartily ashamed of her ignorance. A misplaced shame. Where people wish to attach, they should always be ignorant. To come with a well-informed mind is to come with an inability of administering to the vanity of others, which a sensible person would always wish to avoid. A woman especially, if she have the misfortune of knowing anything, should conceal it as well as she can. The advantages of natural folly in a beautiful girl have been already set forth by the capital pen of a sister author; and to her treatment of the subject I will only add, in justice to men, that though to the larger and more trifling part of the sex, imbecility in females is a great enhancement of their personal charms, there is a portion of them too reasonable and too well informed themselves to desire anything more in woman than ignorance. But Catherine did not know her own advantages—did not know that a good-looking girl, with an affectionate heart and a very ignorant mind, cannot fail of attracting a clever young man, unless circumstances are particularly untoward.”I've said it before and I'll say it again, Jane Austen does not give a shit. my girl WENT OFF► Speaking of Jane Austen going off:“'And what are you reading, Miss—?' 'Oh! It is only a novel!' replies the young lady, while she lays down her book with affected indifference, or momentary shame. 'It is only Cecilia, or Camilla, or Belinda'; or, in short, only some work in which the greatest powers of the mind are displayed, in which the most thorough knowledge of human nature, the happiest delineation of its varieties, the liveliest effusions of wit and humour, are conveyed to the world in the best-chosen language.” I BELIEVE I JUST READ THE LITERARY EQUIVALENT OF A MIC DROP￼► “Mrs. Allen was one of that numerous class of females, whose society can raise no other emotion than surprise at there being any men in the world who could like them well enough to marry them.” LOL harsh but true. Mrs. Allen, you need a personality DESPERATELY► A particularly great passage:“She was actually under the abbey walls...without feeling one awful foreboding of future misery to herself, or one moment’s suspicion of any past scenes of horror being acted within the solemn edifice. The breeze had not seemed to waft the sighs of the murdered to her; it had wafted nothing worse than a thick mizzling rain; and having given a good shake to her habit, she was ready to be shown into the common drawing-room, and capable of considering where she was.”"the breeze had not seemed to waft the sighs of the murdered to her"? Austen is, as always, hilarious. ► I love that the narrator of the story openly acknowledges her role as such in Northanger Abbey, something which Austen's other novels don't feature. You'll be casually reading the story then BAM the narrator steps in and says something funny or sarcastic or witty and it's just such a lovely surprise. “The anxiety, which in this state of their attachment must be the portion of Henry and Catherine, and of all who loved either, as to its final event, can hardly extend, I fear, to the bosom of my readers, who will see in the tell-tale compression of the pages before them, that we are all hastening together to perfect felicity.”Hehe.► I had to have at least a bullet point for John, douchebag that he is.“With whomsoever [John] was, or was likely to be connected, his own consequence always required that theirs should be great, and as his intimacy with any acquaintance grew, so regularly grew their fortune. The expectations of his friend Morland, therefore, from the first overrated, had ever since his introduction to Isabella been gradually increasing; and by merely adding twice as much for the grandeur of the moment, by doubling what he chose to think the amount of Mr. Morland’s preferment, trebling his private fortune, bestowing a rich aunt, and sinking half the children, he was able to represent the whole family to the general in a most respectable light.”lol classic John, amirite?► Last but not least, the Northanger Abbey adaptation, which I will say I mostly enjoyed. Felicity Jones as Catherine and JJ Feilds as Henry were perfect. Carey Mulligan as Isabella was also great, but I wish we'd seen more of her and her wonderful duplicity. Overall though, I think the adaptation kinda missed the whole point of the story. This nagged at me a little bit while watching the movie, but reading this essay solidified all my doubts. The movie amps up the gothic, whereas the whole book parodies it. The movie also adds a bunch of...salacious content to the story that didn't need to be there (Catherine's weird dreams, for example).￼JJ FEILDS THOUGH. As if Henry needed to be even MORE charming.Though I preferred its first to its second half, I really loved Northanger Abbey. Austen's whip-smart voice shines as much in this book as in any of her others._______________________________________________First read: September 25-October 17, 2016I enjoyed some parts of this, but on the whole I wish there'd been more character interactions and dialogue and less of Catherine's dramatic, never-ending monologues.Bright side is, reading this has made me really exicted to read more Austen! For some reason I thought her language was too dense but this was surprisingly "readable." Hoping to reread Pride and Prejudice soon and see if I love it as much I love the movie. c:
4622710297	I can't believe I almost DNF'd this. “The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.” I won't lie, the beginning was so insufferably boring that I almost DNF'd at page 30. But as I kept pushing through, I had a blast. This is only my second novel by Austen following Pride & Prejudice . I disliked her writing so much when I had to read that book for required school reading. So much of Austen's satire just flew over my head back then. Now, I've have come to realize that her satire is one of the many things that makes her books fun. Her writing is just so sophisticatedly humorous. “Her father was a clergyman, without being neglected, or poor, and a very respectable man, though his name was Richard—” I've only read two of her books, but I have been told all of her novels follow a common theme: going to other people's houses, dialogue, and balls. This story follows Catherine, a very naïve young woman who is ignorant to so many things. The entire novel runs on Catherine's ignorance and naïveté. And Austen writes this in such a fun way.Catherine is well-read and is in love with reading books, but unfortunately this gives her a bad tendency to view the world around her the same way she views her favorite gothic novels. Thus causing her to overdramatize the happenings around her. And her own naïveté causes her to view the intentions of others through her own innocent eyes and not theirs. The love interest in this novel, Henry Tilney, explains this perfectly: “Well, then, I only meant that your attributing my brother's wish of dancing with Miss Thorpe to good nature alone convinced me of your being superior in good nature yourself to all the rest of the world.” And of course her sincere outlook on the world causes her to become oblivious of other people's intentions towards her. This contrast between Catherine's innocence and Henry's more realistic view of the world makes the dialogue between the two entertaining. Catherine's obliviousness to everything is all the more satisfying as she slowly starts to realize the world isn't really what she thought it to be. She may not be the smartest in the room, and she may not be the wealthiest, but she's definitely the most adventurous. And while Henry sees that she is a little incognizant, he is still captivated by Catherine's personal interests. During the era in which Austin wrote this novel, reading fictional novels for pleasure was looked down upon. It was seen as something only women (and the poor) have time to do. Catherine assumes Henry does not read for pleasure since not only is he a man, but financially out of her league. She tells him just as much – "they are not clever enough for you – gentlemen read better books." While not as extreme, this bias still exists today. I see it a lot in critic reviews for romance or soft sci-fi / fantasy – that this is the kind of stuff created for women, backhandedly implying it is somehow lesser.And of course Henry, our magnificent icon, dismisses this by replying – “The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.” He goes on to show off that he is also great at selecting women's clothing, and enjoys reading literary works, even ones written by women. He is straightforward, and isn't embarrassed to make his interests publicly known, no matter how much society tries to indicate its "for women".Austen was a woman born in the wrong century. Its a shame how her novels didn't do too well when she was alive. If only she could see how successful her work eventually became. Now, I must go watch the BBC film.
1724700373	Enjoyable story, which started over very well, dipped a bit in the middle then peeked up towards the end. I liked the characters, and found Catherine Morland an interesting and personable invention of Austen's.
