3382299426	When a book traps your soul from beginning to end and beyond, keeping hold of a string to your heart even as you leave it behind, you know it deserves all the constellations in the night sky.Credit: Nicole What is a person, if not the marks they leave behind? They say if you look through a wooden ring on the 29th night of July, just after dark, you’d see a wraith wandering valleys and alleys—singing, sighing, seeking. And if you lean in, shell of an ear pressed to the ring, you would hear the echoes of a madwoman, murmuring of a dance of three centuries, a game between the ruler of darkness and a ghost of a girl, a war that was a love affair and a need and an obsession.They say that, if you follow closely, she’d take you through continents and centuries—chasing shadows, stalking the vanishing footsteps of an idea, a touch, a constellation of seven freckles. And if you stack up your courage in a fist and ask her what it is she seeks, she would tell you it is a god and a girl, a forgotten thing. And then she would turn to the night and cry out in challenge and raging prayer.This, my friend, is where I suggest you let your fist fly open, scattering the gathered grains, and flee. For if you don’t, you would glimpse a man with raven hair and a fleeting emerald labyrinth for eyes set in the face of a wolf step from the shadows, a dark god bearing his own temples of need and desperation. For if you stay, the devil would take your soul.They say, and they say it honest and true.I would know—I am the wraith, after all. “No matter how desperate or dire, never pray to the gods that answer after dark.” This quiet, languid, fleeting, wandering, aromantic romance that is more need and companionship than love; this tale of immortality with its heartwrenching wail and tragic tale of watching all you hold on to fall apart in your grasp; this book of a bewitching affair and search for freedom, love, and remembrance; this book with its ingenuous creativity, dwelling on the power of belief and ideas...stole my heart, bled it dry, and speared it atop the gates of hell to warn the unwary what would happen if you fell in love with the devil.I persistently urge you to listen to the unbelievably flawless and fitting songs on my playlist of this book ➾ Spotify URL “Nothing is all good or all bad,” she says. “Life is so much messier than that.”And there in the dark, he asks if it was really worth it.Were the instants of joy worth the stretches of sorrow?Were the moments of beauty worth the years of pain?And she turns her head, and looks at him, and says, “Always.” In honour of Addie’s seven-star constellation of freckles, the feature that ensnared gazes and inspired artists and shone through centuries, I’m assigning each of the seven main stars of the Orion to the seven whys The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is a haunting, blinding, bold sky: ★ Rigel: Storytelling I would like to announce that I am the biggest idiot on earth for depriving myself of the writing of such a master storyteller. Such exceptional weaving techniques of piecing the tale together as a puzzle; such eloquent work, bringing the pages and words full circle; such perfect prose with sensible, tangible, and fitting metaphors.Such talent. Much perfection. What she needs are stories.Stories are a way to preserve one’s self. To be remembered. And to forget.Stories come in so many forms: in charcoal, and in song, in paintings, poems, films. And books.Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives—or to find strength in a very long one. From sculpting characters that are more than a sculpture, real as any person with various outlooks on life that indeed leak into their way of speech, to scrutiny of details, wiping away any possible logical holes in the plot or magic, I am going to call V.E. Schwab my new all-time fave author even though this is my first book of hers. Let me just fold up my sleeves and get into the process of devouring the rest of her works. ★ Bellatrix: Addie LaRue, the Muse Scarier than having a dream, a desire, a need, and making a huge mistake because of it, haunted by your blindness for 3 centuries, is watching it happen and thinking that could be me.It’s the relief of understanding towards an unrestrained, wild thing in search of her freedom, her life, her own path—be it companionship or loneliness; it’s the warmth of kinship towards a defiant dreamer dreaming of a stranger with dark hair, crying out against the night to belong to no one but herself, be bound to none but herself; and it’s the resignation to a road undoubtedly ahead of a girl fleeing the smallness of a static life, a tomb, strings cut, head wandering.It’s joy and it’s pain and it’s unforgettable.Addie LaRue is unforgettable. ★ Betelgeuse: Love & Luc, the Devil Before I talk of Luc and love, I will—in true self-centred-me fashion—talk about me. So buckle up for personal information you absolutely did not ask for.# confession timeI’ve always believed myself a loveless creature. I’ve believed it and declared it, to friend, family, stranger. Strangers raise an eyebrow, family nods in understanding of a shared problem, but friends...friends always disagree, always start a speech about how kind and caring and helpful and generous I am, well-intendedly attempting to explain myself to me as if I don’t live in my head.What those friends do not understand is the meaning of love. Frankly, I was not sure of it either other than knowing I am not capable of it. That is, until Schwab wrote: “You are not capable of love because you cannot understand what it is to care for someone else more than yourself.” Love comes with honesty and compassion and trust and understanding, yes, but, above all else, love is putting someone else before yourself. And I admit I cannot truly love because I know that, no matter how giving and caring and helpful I am, I will always choose me if choosing others hurts me, and the fact that I do not care for most things so I wouldn’t be hurt by them (like money) does not take away from my being an essentially selfish creature. I confess this without any sugar coating because I believe it’s crucial to know your most prominent flaws and be honest with yourself and those around you, to refrain from harming others through them.That’s love. So what about Luc? “Pain can be beautiful,” he says, exhaling a cloud of smoke. “It can transform. It can create.” My uncalled for rant above makes it glaringly—blindingly, really, because if you didn’t get it then seriously whatareyoudoin—obvious I relate to this god of the dark between the stars; this selfish and lonely creature with secret longings and hidden loss; this cruel, moody immortal seeing the world as a game but also capable of being wounded and confused; this “vast and savage night, the darkness, full of promise, and violence, fear, and freedom” with a lack of respect for boundaries. “Do not mistake this—any of it—for kindness, Adeline.” His eyes go bright with mischief. “I simply want to be the one who breaks you.” But beyond being relatable, he is possessive, obsessive, abusive, and other unattractive -ives. And this plus Addie’s unwillingness to ever back down is what makes their bloodsport of a dynamic so utterly irresistible—one that, despite its toxicity (that is never overlooked or romanticised), has its perks (how he pushes her, challenges her, to be better, if ruthlessly) and hilarious moments (how he ruins her dates, even as he’s a god for god’s sake).But remember that, no matter how these two cutthroats fit, no matter how their passionate, warlike back-and-forths are something they both crave, she only really had him in the vast emptiness of her world, and he made it so. Her thoughts are filled with him, because he made it so.Remember that, however alluring their affair, it is not love. ★ Alnilam: Henry, the Storykeeper You know that feeling when you get gifted a box of sweets and you think well okay this will probably be cloyingly sweet and ah, well, I will end up tired of it and then you have a taste and oh will you never forget the moment it sizzled on your tongue and you realised no no it is not more of the same and it’s simply unique?That’s Henry for me.Because sensitive, caring, soft, quiet, strong characters haunted by failure more often than not fail to hold my flickering attention, yet I now trust Victoria Schwab to do the unlikely. Because he is more than those adjectives strung up together; he is lost and hungry in a world that holds an insurmountable number of tastes, insatiably craving too many of them to choose; he is a boy who sees stories in theology, who fears being himself as much as he hates not being seen as himself; and he is more than simply sensitive, carrying a cracked heart that lets in everything and anything, and Schwab’s exploration of his mental health and anxiety was soulful and unforgettable. ★ Alnitak: Feminism Sometimes I wonder if, through the millennia that humans have roamed the earth, there has ever been a girl who has not looked away, looked up, from what life had handed her, seen the lot of boy next to her and wanted more. I wonder if, even among the content and kind and incurious of generations ago where being a dreamer was not yet a seed planted, not a one of them dreamt of freedom and ownership of one’s own life.And mostly, I wonder if the women who called after questioning girls as one would a sheep gone astray, are in reality the ones who’d seen the most injustice, dreamt the hardest, and learned such a hard lesson to end up helping in the keeping of the leash. Freedom is a pair of trousers and a buttoned coat. A man’s tunic and a tricorne hat. If only she had known. The darkness claimed he’d given her freedom, but really, there is no such thing for a woman, not in a world where they are bound up inside their clothes, and sealed inside their homes, a world where only men are given leave to roam. I might never know, but I will always seek tales of dreamers who would look at men and see at what little cost they moved through life, who would look into the woods and ask to be a tree, grown wild rather than pruned and cut down to burn in someone else’s hearth, be someone else’s chair.Addie LaRue’s is one such tale. ★ Mintaka: History & Art For a book that spans across hundreds of years and yards, it goes without saying that there will be history and humanity with all its wonders and cruelty and war and art. And yet, as Addie would put it, “history is a thing designed in retrospect” and Addie LaRue is less a lesson on history than a parable of a great many presents. “Art is about ideas. And ideas are wilder than memories. They’re like weeds, always finding their way up.” So while there is history with clever commentary on evolution of fashion and glimpses of war and death and revolution, that is not what it is about. Schwab’s new novel is about history taking shape. About stories and ideas taking root in unseen places and climbing up through the darkest places of mind that have never seen the sunlight. Not about the world-changing historical figures and world-ending historical events written as a hammer falling, but as a friend and a brief conversation and a flash of life. This is not about the affect of the grand but the power of the minor.It’s about life and art and humans and how, even after one hundred years or three hundred years, there is yet more to find. Unknowns to see. Novelties to discover. And it is all the more memorable because of it. ★ Saiph: Loneliness & Remembrance Have you ever watched that glorious, solitary tree of decades and centuries and memories struck down by a lightning storm? Ever held that tiny, inconsequential keepsake of a forgotten soul, refusing to ease your desperate grasp? Have you spent hours and days and a lifetime breathing your heart and soul and life into that lifeless thing, shaping it with your will and need and then, just a blink too soon, a moment before perfection, resolution, completion, seen it fall apart?Tell me, have you ever felt that abyss of sadness reserved for the lost? The forgotten? The lonely? “Why would anyone trade a lifetime of talent for a few years of glory?”“Because happiness is brief, and history is lasting, and in the end,” he says, “everyone wants to be remembered.” I am a creature doomed to loneliness, seeking its banishment and knowing it is here to stay, and this book is the song of my soul. Because this, this is the why behind the exquisite pain of this book: a loss so stark, so sharp it cut straight through me and I poured, I poured until I drowned and I poured until all was washed away and there, right there—beneath the pain and the dirt and the injustice—there lay the gem of names and marks fading into darkness; of identity and reality with its bittersweet embrace; of dreams and time slipping through your clutching hands; of me, and you, and humanity’s unending need to be remembered and chased and never replaced. “The vexing thing about time,” he says, “is that it’s never enough. Perhaps a decade too short, perhaps a moment. But a life always ends too soon.” Millions of thankful stars and constellations to my superhero for sending me an eARC from Edelweiss!Info on the film adaptation with Schwab as screenwriter.
3729262325	edit: i just want to reiterate, i do like and enjoy this book. however, i also can find issue within it. i'm not calling the book problematic, i'm just highlighting some aspects that i believe the book failed on. if you don't want to hear that then you don't have to read this review.i am also not calling this book racist, or "making it about race", as people who typically argue against these kinds of things would say, nor am i asking this book to be about Black people. i am simply suggesting that this book would've conveyed its themes a little better if they made it a bit more universal -- however, as people have also stated, perhaps this is to indicate addie's selfishness, which i can agree with.Déjà vu. Déjà su. Déjà vecu.The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue or The Invisible Life of Addie the Street conveys a tale about a girl who makes a faustian bargain with the devil and is thus forgotten by everyone she meets. Addie becomes convinced she must make her mark upon the world in unique and influential ways, as she believes that an idea can spark into so much more. It is a story that deals with the consequences of our actions, how one choice can make life fall apart at the seams, and how everyone, despite everything, truly wants to be remembered by someone.I was really excited about this novel, the story that V.E. Schwab would bring. I enjoyed her Shades of Magic series and I was intrigued to read her latest novel. As a fan of books that contain deals with gods and devils, I was hoping that this book was able to deliver, especially since some of my friends had loved it too. However, whilst this book emphasized on palimpsests and the meanings of making your mark, of love, and of finding your way in the world, I was lost in how not only white but how eurocentric this novel was.Eurocentrism (also Eurocentricity or Western-centrism) is a worldview that is centered on Western civilization or a biased view that favors it over non-Western civilizations.The writing was beautiful, but the story lacked some substance. Addie LaRue truly told us (emphasis on told) through her lens how difficult and hard her life was. How she was only a shadow, a whisper, a lost thought in the wind. Addie LaRue desperately wanted someone to remember her, to know her name, to know her story. However, as we traveled throughout Addie's life, I couldn't feel connected to her tale, to her story. She had lived for three hundred years, and yet the experiences we saw were so narrow in comparison to how grand her life could've been. We flashed back for only brief moments before returning back to New York for the main plot of the tale, and its focus on art, white culture, and history. I feel as though it concentrated on the ✨ white aesthetic ✨ of her experiences as opposed to ensuring it had good execution.The plot (is that the right word?) felt extremely repetitive, although potentially done on purpose to emphasize how painful it was for Addie to be forgotten, after a while, it began to lose its effect. Again, it could be to potentially showcase Addie becoming desensitized to her curse. However, it made the novel to be predictable, and at the end of it, I guessed what was going to happen, and I was left feeling meh. The emotional impact that the ending would've had was 85% lost. Henry's gift to Addie at the end was the only thing I felt for, the only thing I could connect to at the end. (view spoiler)[I thought he would write a novel about her life, and it just seems fourth-wall-breaking that the novel in the novel is also called The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue. (hide spoiler)] It emphasized the fact that words are powerful, and the words you choose mean everything, especially in Addie's case. I also had problems with Addie's character, in the sense that she didn't evolve that much throughout the novel. I experienced the same feeling when reading another of Schwab's characters, Lila Bard. Addie is intelligent, calculated, and experienced whilst Lila is young, naive, and spontaneous. Addie is careful of the consequences whilst Lila doesn't care about them. However, I can't help but feel that both characters are similar in the sense that their extent of evolving surrounds becoming selfless as a result of their relationships. Lila becomes selfless through meeting Kell and changing her view of the world whilst Addie becomes more selfless through meeting Henry and experiencing what it feels to be remembered again. Whilst it was nice to see Addie change slightly and become hopeful, I felt as though she was still the same girl three hundred years prior, who had made the deal, with no regards as to how the (traumatic) events in history have shaped her, how it was to be in a German cell, how it was to live through wars and death. Instead, the story continued it's great focus on Addie wanting to be remembered like it was the only thing that mattered in the grand history of things. This is evident through her repetition of certain phrases throughout the novel, showing that she still holds onto her past which reinforces the person that she was, is, and will always be. Addie refuses to let go of it because only she can remember her past, and thus cannot change as a person. She wants to be the same person as it's how she wants to be remembered, she wants to be able to tell her story.One thing I did like was the anniversary between Luc and Addie. It was a nice touch and I personally enjoyed the conversations between them in the beginning, how it was two opposing forces that couldn't help but revolve around one another like two planets. Addie basically plays the longest game of doing things out of spite, just to prove a point and I loved that Luc came back with "huh you thought". Although near the end, I found that Luc became a lot more possessive and manipulative, as a god such as he usually does. But for the life of me, I cannot see why people would want Addie to be with him for that exact reason. Like Team "Boy who remembers Addie" or Team "Tall, Dark (but white) and Handsome who not only plays with Addie, but manipulates, punishes and abuses her for not doing what he wants." HMMMM??!??!?!?!!?!??!??Henry was... Henry. Whilst he was cute and I enjoyed reading his perspective and backstory, I just felt he only existed to give Addie's story more meaning. (view spoiler)[It felt as though Henry only existed so he could tell Addie's story, and we don't get to see what happens to him after publishing the novel. His role in the novel had been fulfilled, hence he was no longer needed in the end. (hide spoiler)] I just wished Henry had a greater sense of purpose. This novel is a standalone according to Schwab, but the way that it ends implies that there'll be more to the story. Is this Schwab keeping a wedge in the door in case she decides to come back to the world, or is it just to leave readers intrigued as to how it all truly ends? We might never know.However, as I was reading this story, I couldn't help but feel uneasy. Something made me uncomfortable about this tale apart from the mild existential crisis I was having about whether I'd be remembered after I died. Addie's story is white, extremely white. We are shown one black woman, Bea, who Addie calls beautiful. That is it. Throughout her three hundred years of living, we aren't shown Addie being in any other continents apart from the UK, Europe, and America. Addie knows French, Italian, Spanish, Greek but doesn't think to learn other languages from non-white civilisations. It seems Addie LaRue wanted to be remembered, just not by people of colour. Someone managed to go around the world in 80 days whilst Addie has only visited three continents in three hundred years. The fact the only thing she can also say about a person of colour is that they're beautiful? It made me uncomfortable. This presentation of the west in a novel about the meaning of being remembered is ironic, as it's often the west that's remembered and exemplified in history, leaving the histories of people of colour to be forgotten, erased. Where were the references to colonisation, how France, Spain, Italy Britain, and America partook in the scramble for Africa? She was literally going between Germany and England during this time. Also, there is no excuse for her not to notice, oh i don't know, RACISM OR THE TRANSPORTATION OF SLAVES?! Like, it just shows how apathetic Addie LaRue is to colonization and slavery, and the fact she didn't note it at all in her history shows how complicit she was in the system. The fact that Henry never questions her on it either? I just find that this novel displayed such a white lens, it was blinding.I find that the eurocentric focus in this story just took the meaning of this novel away from me, as it just felt to me that whilst all these white people were trying to make marks upon the world, were trying to make themselves known and loved, Bea, the only person of colour, was just... tokenized in the narrative. In a story that focuses on the importance of leaving your mark, I feel like this book told me that the marks people of colour leave just aren't important or valued. also, voltaire??? really????This novel shows how much privilege Addie has in not needing to care about or notice the brutality and violence that people of colour suffered under during this time. It shows how fortunate she is in the fact that she feels the need to not mention it in her grand history, and instead only focus on the times in which she thought were important to her story. There is also the argument that Schwab intentionally left them out in order to not anger people of colour for the representation of their countries and cultures. However, sensitivity readers could've been employed and a majority of measures could've been taken to ensure the representation was somewhat accurate, and that there was at least more representation! We did get some queer rep though.Can I also just mention how funny it is that during the Civil Rights Movement in the 50s and 60s, Addie is "Everywhere, Nowhere", and yet fails to make one single comment about the impact of the movement? Oh yeah, it's because Addie is too self-absorbed in her curse, in the circumstances surrounding her curse, her desire to be wanted, remembered. Did Addie LaRue partake in the Civil Rights Marches? Did Addie LaRue meet Martin Luther King Jr.? Or was she too busy (view spoiler)[having sex with Luc instead? (hide spoiler)] Questions we'll never know the answers to.I adored the exploration of the meaning of art, history and love. How in one instant, memories can slip away and your life could amount to nothing. However, Addie LaRue forces you to remember her in the text, as everyone else (apart from Luc and Henry), especially people of colour are simply forgotten. This is a well-written novel and one that I enjoyed experiencing. However, I can't help but feel I am not the target audience for this book, and instead it is a story for white people and white people alone.I've been rambling for the past three hours but I just hope this makes sense LMAOThe live show for The Late Night Book Club's discussion of The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is on Noelle's channel, link is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTrg8...
3396215931	ARC provided by Tor in exchange for an honest review. "Stories come in so many forms: in charcoal, and in song, in paintings, poems, films. And books." This is a book about a girl, a boy, a devil, and the stories that get told and repeated and remembered. This is a tale of power dynamics and imbalances and what humans are willing to do to not feel trapped and alone. This is all about a young girl who lives her life for herself, who lives her life in spite of the odds, who lives her life in hopes someone will recall her from memory.Everything about Addie LaRue completely blew me away. This is the first book by V.E. Schwab that I’ve given five stars to, and I’m not sure a day has passed since reading that I haven’t thought about it. I will say that I think this book (and more importantly the ending) could be a bit polarizing, but this story, this main character, and the way everything was structured just really worked perfectly for me and my reading tastes.How do I even begin to describe this book to you? There are truly so many layers woven together to make this story. Many of you know, this is something that V.E. Schwab has been working on for a decade and you can tell they really put their whole heart and soul into these complex characters:➽ Addie - A girl with seven freckles, and she is told that there is one for every love she would ever have. She was born in a small town, and had small town expectations placed on her, but Addie had big dreams and desired to see as much of the world as she possibly could. And when she turns twenty-three, and everyone thinks her time is slowly running out, she quickly finds out that time is something she will never have to fear again. "Spells are for the witches, and witches are too often burned." ➽ Henry - Works at a bookstore in New York while trying to live his life to the fullest. And he happens to be able to see a girl that has never been remembered before. "I remember you." ➽ Luc - A god you should never pray to after dark, unless you are very desperate, and feel very helpless, and are willing to pay the unknown price. "I am stronger than your god and older than your devil. I am the darkness between stars, and the roots beneath the earth. I am promise, and potential, and when it comes to playing games, I divine the rules, I set the pieces, and I choose when to play. And tonight, I say no." And maybe, just maybe, Addie felt like she should be able to pay the price when she runs into the forest one night, willing to risk everything to have a life that is hers once and for all. We get to see Addie and her struggles and her growth over the course of three-hundred-years, starting in 1714 France and switching to 2014 America. We get to see so much of Addie’s hurt throughout the centuries, but we also get to see so much of her yearning. Yearning for love, yearning for knowledge, yearning for art, yearning for a life that is worthy of remembrance. Truly, this book was able to evoke such visceral reactions from me, and I could truly feel Addie’s yearning, and her hurt, on every page.Now that I have used the word “yearning” one-hundred times, let’s talk about some of the rep in Addie LaRue, because there are lots of queer characters and characters who read queer! Addie is pan or bi, and we get to see her in relationships with different genders throughout this book, but the main relationship (and yearning) is m/f. I believe Henry is pan, but it is never said on page, but "he’s attracted to a person first and their gender second" had me and my pan heart ascending to new heights, I promise you that. Addie and Henry are both white, but there are POC side characters and other identities on the LGBTQIAP+ spectrum (gay, lesbian, maybe some polyamorous hints)! And this book, has some very serious depression representation! "It’s just a storm, he tells himself, but he is tired of looking for shelter. It is just a storm, but there is always another waiting in its wake." Being unsure what you want in life. Especially in your twenties. Feeling like something is wrong with you. Feeling like you’ll never be enough. Feeling like you’ll never be whole. Feeling like you are just disappointing everyone around you. Feeling like no one will ever take the time to see you, the real you, and choose to love you unconditionally anyways. Whew, it’s a lot, and V.E. Schwab really didn’t hold back while writing Henry and his mental health. I don’t want to make this too personal, but it means a lot to me, and I know Henry’s journey is going to mean a lot to so many people and impact a lot of lives.(Also, friendly reminder that life is truly a vast range of up and down journeys! And you, and your journey, are valid, and I see you no matter how hard that journey feels at times. There will be lots of heavy days, but lots of light days too, I promise. And you are so worthy of love, and kindness, and respect, no matter where you are at on your journey. And feeling too much is not a curse, ever. And I’m proud of you, and you are never alone with what you are feeling, and sometimes we all need help with some storms: http://suicidepreventionlifeline.org) "His heart has a draft. It lets in light. It lets in storms. It lets in everything." Plus, a key component of this story is the god who Addie makes a deal with. Addie and Luc’s three-hundred-year bargain is so very messy and has so very many different elements. But the key element is the unhealthy power dynamic. Over this course of time, we get to see their relationship change, and morph, and grow, and we get to see Addie desperately trying to gain some of the power for herself. But, it is a very unhealthy cycle of abuse and this story is told in a way where the reader gets to see these power imbalances come more and more into play and Luc and Addie set the stage of their game(s) more and more. I’ll be the first to say I always wanted more of Luc, and I loved every chapter he was in, and I constantly wanted to know more about him, but I will also say that I personally feel like V.E. Schwab was very deliberate with his character and with making him charming and intriguing and a character to be romanticized, because abusers can have all of those characteristics and still be abusers.But we get to see Luc, and Henry, and Addie, and watch their intertangled stories unwind. I truly feel like I can’t say much more about the actual story, and I believe it’s probably best to not know much more than what I’ve said above, but seeing these characters, during all their different phases in life, both alone and together, is truly something like a work of art. "Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives—or to find strength in a very long one." This entire story truly is a love letter to art and the beautiful, awe inspiring, mind-blowing way stories are held within art, therefore held in so many hearts forever. Maybe even creating and inspiring other art, to make the sweetest ripple effect of them all. Art and stories are so powerful because they have the power to heal wounds that are too deep to be touched by other things. From feeling love, to feeling not alone, to inspiring, to escape, to be thought provoking, to be educational, to make you realize things you have been forced to internalize and unlearn, to something as simple yet as hard as happiness. "Because time is cruel to all, and crueler still to artists. Because vision weakens, and voices wither, and talent fades. " He leans close, twists a lock of her hair around one finger. "Because happiness is brief, and history is lasting, and in the end, " he says, "everyone wants to be remembered." While I was reading this book, me and my best friend Lea watched a video that was reuploaded on V.E.’s YouTube. It was basically just an hour-long discussion that they had with Tessa Gratton, where they talk about many things, but one of the things they talked about that I especially haven’t been able to stop thinking about since finishing this book was that we never get to really pick what work we will be known for. Obviously, Victoria is very well-know from their series A Darker Shade of Magic, and it very well could be the greatest legacy that the world will know from them. Yet, they talk about how Addie LaRue is the book of their heart, and (I do not want to put any words in their mouth) it kind of felt like to me the book they may want the world to know them for. Yet, we never really get to choose what we are known for, do we? A very astounding concept to think about, truly, and one I couldn’t stop feeling deeply in my bones while I finished the last half of this book. Also, to think about how the human experiences could boil down to this hunger we all have to leave a mark on this world before we are forced to leave it all together? Very powerful stuff, truly. But I promise, V.E. Schwab and Addie Larue most definitely left their marks on me, and my heart, forever with this book. "Humans are capable of such wondrous things. Of cruelty, and war, but also art and invention." Overall, this book made me yearn for so many things while also constantly making me question what it is to hunger. To crave your freedom, to crave someone who will see all the parts of you, to crave remembrance. I just feel like this book really touched on the human experience, but in such a incredibly raw and indistinguishably beautiful way. I really loved The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue and it will without a doubt make my best of 2020 list. Thank you for letting me be a part of your story, thank you for always reading this part of mine, and I promise you will never be invisible to me.Youtube | Instagram | Twitter | Blog | Spotify | Twitch Trigger and Content Warnings: attempted assault, abuse depiction, loss of a loved one, substance abuse, depression depiction, suicidal thoughts, attempted suicide, and mention of cancer in the past. The quotes above were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication.Buddy read with Maëlys! ❤
3650546343	Welcome back students. I have been reassigned to teach Writing 102: So many words, so little plot. After my success with my first course, I am sure you are all aware it is expected that you have read this novel before attending my class in order to avoid spoilers. We will be delving into three main topics: monotony, pretension, and shallowness. Fill up your favorite mug with your choice of caffeinated beverage; I promise my review will be more entertaining than this dull novel. We also have a guest speaker, Roel, so please be kind and show her some appreciation. --- Monotony This book simply lacks a plot. Many will try and argue that the first and last 10% of the novel are where all the action occurs. Did I hear that correctly? Action? There is no such thing in this novel. The first 10% are a repetition of the novel description. I admit, the description immediately grasped my attention, however I’ll spare you the hours you spend reading this yawning and simply advise you that the description is sufficient enough. We can easily change the title of this novel to The Monotonous Life of Addie LaRue and I guarantee no other revision to the novel would be needed; the title would be fitting. The whole novel is Addie walking around whining, followed by the introduction of Henry, who walks around whining and crying. Together they whine and walk around. The end. Yup. I think I accurately captured everything that happens in this plot.The writing style is so repetitive. I have read reviews that argue that although this novel lacks plot, the writing style is beautiful. This novel could be simplified to mad lib style. For example:She was taken back to ___,(place) to ____,(place) to ____.(place) She was reminded of the coffee in ____,(city) in _____,(city) in _____.(city)Everyone was mesmerized by her ________(seven freckles shaped like a constellation). Her beauty transcended this galaxy and it was evidenced by her _________(seven freckles on her cheek that looked like a constellation). Maybe it simply took V.E. Schwab ten years to write this novel because she was running out of nouns to fill up her mad libs. It might be hard to believe that the above quotes were made up by me, but I will make sure to include citations from the novel itself: "…drawing Addie back to Marseilles, to Budapest, to Dublin.”“A park in London. A patio in Prague. A team room in Edinburgh.”"Addie was used to passing glances—her features are sharp, but feminine, her eyes bright above the constellation of freckles on her cheeks, a kind of timeless beauty, she’s been told” I was surprised to find out that her seven freckles were only mentioned ~23 times. I swear it was every other page. The only description we are constantly given, as if we had forgotten. Also, what was the use of the following quote:"Seven freckles. One for every love she’d have, that’s what Estele had said, when the girl was still young. One for every life she’d lead. One for every god watching over her.”Was I the only one that actually thought she would have seven love lives? Did I think that somehow this story would be a great love adventure through the 300 years? What is the point of highlighting this in the prologue and never mentioning anything about this again?To further highlight the pointless writing and how it's really something a 6 year old would be able to write: No one is ever ready to die. Even when they think they want to. No one is ready. He isn’t ready. But it is time. It is time. Pretension For a person that is allowed to live 300+ years, Addie spends her life walking. I’m serious all she does is walk and think about herself. Yes the circumstances she grew up in were “tough” and I put that lightly. She had a roof over her head, two loving parents who wanted her taken care of after their passing by marrying her off. As a woman who also values her independence and freedom, I get it. Once she strikes the deal, however, Addie remains the same brat she did in the first ten pages. She’s in a fortunate position as an “exceptionally beautiful” white woman; her only troubles it seems are when women are oppressed. We get a brief mention of war, but her troubles are quickly resolved when Luc takes her away from it all. She has the ability to be invisible, making her a great candidate for espionage or LITERALLY ANYTHING USEFUL, but instead she cries for rescue and continues walking and thinking about herself in a different setting. Her only contribution (albeit the stupidest possible) is all the artwork (about you guessed it) HERSELF. This girl has lived 300 years and could have easily first hand described everything that occurred in history, but instead she has people writing about her. The cherry on top is that out of all the possible artworks IN THE WHOLE FUCKING WORLD, Bea decided to do her thesis on Addie. What are the odds?Our next character, second only to Addie in blandness and uselessness, is Henry. We all get it life is short. This man is the stupidest character I have ever read about. Who makes such a tragic deal? AND even after making such a tragic deal, who would just waste their life moping around and whining some more? When people get a second chance in life, they grasp it; they travel, volunteer, learn, teach others, ANYTHING. Nope, Henry sits there and mopes and feels bad for himself. It’s pathetic. I also need to address the following quote, which made me cringe: Bea leans toward him. “But that’s the thing, Henry, you haven’t been you. You waste so much time on people who don’t deserve you. People who don’t know you, because you don’t let them know you.” Bea cups his face, that strange shimmer in her eyes. “Henry, you’re smart, and kind, and infuriating. You hate olives and people who talk during movies. You love milkshakes and people who can laugh until they cry. You think it’s a crime to turn ahead to the end of a book. When you’re angry you get quiet, and when you’re sad you get loud, and you hum when you’re happy.” “And?” “And I haven’t heard you hum in years.” Her hands fall away. “But I’ve seen you eat a shit ton of olives.” All Henry has going for himself is eating olives, not surprising. Shallowness Given the historic backdrop to this novel you would think some events would be brought to light. You cannot just have a novel set throughout 300 years of history and completely disregard what was going on in the world (racism, genocide, war, to name a few). I honestly have no idea what Henry could write about Addie because she contributed absolutely nothing and had nothing noteworthy to speak of. Every single sex scene in this novel was so bland. I don’t understand how this is categorized as “adult novel” when things were poorly described and there was no chemistry between any of the characters. Everyone was instantly mesmerized by Addie's seven freckles, slept with her and then proceeded to create their best artwork or music to date. The twist? It's Addie feeding them ideas, about (YOU GUESS IT) herself.Addie is also so stupid if she believes her deal with Luc in the end will pan out. Everything was incredibly predictable. Henry already had a second chance, which he wasted and now he get's a third which I can guarantee you he will waste again. Addie doesn't even love Henry so that's just so stupid. She gave away her freedom for someone she doesn't even love. She's incapable of ever loving anyone because she's so vain. The most shallow character of all is Luc. This was known from the beginning. He is the devil. The only slight redeeming point of the novel was his introduction and sporadic appearances. Why was he helping Addie? Why torture her sometimes but always ensure she's in a safe space? GIVE ME A NOVEL ABOUT THIS. I was so interested and I only maybe got 10 pages total including an incredibly predictable sex scene between the two. *yawn* Dissapointing. Extra Credit Someone please recommend me some authors who actually know the definition of the word "plot".---Special thanks to my lovely Roel, who tolerated my spams about how much I hate this novel. So thankful that you hated this as much as I did, otherwise our buddy read might have been quite awkward. I plan to remember this buddy read and promptly forget this whole novel and useless Addie and Henry
1645518094	1.5 (and please please don't look at me like that okay. I know.)(Also, mild spoilers ahead.)(Also, it's been brought to my attention that in the review below I got just a tiny bit technical at times. Sorry about that. I promise I'm not in the least trying to come off as a conceited know-it-all.)The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is a manifesto of the dangers of pouring too much of yourself in your artistic creations. Does that mean that art must be impersonal? I'm too much of a relativist to make a definite, let alone definitive, statement about that, but let's say I would certainly like for authors of fiction to take a leaf out of T.S. Eliot's book and try and flee their personalities when they're at work. The underlying problem of Addie LaRue, as I see it, is that it has no discipline, no sound strategy beyond the author's 'well, let's see what else would meet my very personal taste now,' a looseness which becomes manifest in the book's weak characterization and character development, and most of all, in its even weaker writing style.And I know. I know. I never thought I'd see the day when I'd have to say these things of a Schwab book, but they are, sadly, true. The writing style, usually Schwab's forte, at least according to what I remember from her previous books, was particularly appalling in this one. I swear it felt like she couldn't decide whether she wanted to write a novel or a narrative poem. I've never seen such extensive, invasive use of internal rhymes in a prose work (they're literally every other sentence), or such a generous, gratuitous, not to say pretentious distribution of line breaks, as if this were a piece of badly written, wannabe poetry. But narrative prose works are not poetry, which is why they aren't normally* supposed to make such liberal and indiscriminate use of poetic devices, especially phonetic ones, and for very good reasons. Poetry's reliance on sound, rhythm, and metaphoric charge necessarily draws attention to the textual nature of the piece, while prose narratives are normally* dependent on referentiality (as opposed to self-referentiality--although I'm fairly confident this was part of Schwab's plan for setting up the final metatextual plot twist. But the point is that it's all done badly). Writing a prose narrative as if it were poetry, without actually having a clue what prose poetry is (which I don't have either, because that's not really my thing, but certainly it isn't this disjointed collection of aggravating assonances and empty imagery) or without even trying to frame it as such, well, that's just begging for trouble. Especially because more often than not, all that the novel's attempts at lyricality do is trigger a ruinous fall into bathos. Practical example [to give you some context: our heroine, Adeline, would rather die than marry, but her parents nonetheless decide to marry her away. The year is 1714]: Of course, she said no.Adeline is three and twenty, already too old to wed.Three and twenty, a third of a life already buried.Three and twenty--and then gifted like a prize sow to a man she does not love, or want, or even know.She said no, and learned how much the word was worth.Such a dramatic and, in theory, emotionally draining moment in the story, and Schwab decides to render it in the form of a nursery rhyme. I'm pretty sure you could come up with some kind of tune and sing this shit. And there are passages like this galore scattered nearly in every page. (Another jewel is, "This is a vile trick, she thinks, a horrid dream, but it will pass./This is the nature of dreams. They do not last." Oh do get outta here please.) How am I ever going to empathize with the character when all I want to do is laugh? Not to speak of the patent abuse of the rule of three. The scant five lines above already feature two instances. But my favourite examples are the city names Adeline drops completely at random, always in groups of three. She sips from a cup of coffee in New York, and she is "back in Paris again, in Instanbul, in Naples." A handful of pages later, she hears a woman playing a song on her violin and she is drawn "back to Marseilles, to Budapest, to Dublin." Now, the problem is, these cities don't mean absolutely anything, plot-wise or in terms of characterization. They will never be mentioned again. They sound cool, and they fill up the three spaces to be filled. But I think, and I would dare say it's also pretty self-evident, that as a rhetorical device, the rule of thee is actually effective only if you can put some meaning behind the items you're listing. As it is, she could as well have said "back to Agrabah, Flatland, and Bikini Bottom," and the emotional impact would have been exactly the same. Let's at least be a little imaginative while we're at it, shan't we? And these examples of casual geographical name-dropping, I think, are paradigmatic of the intention animating the way the book is written. It's not what you mean that's important or poetic, but only if you make it sound like it should mean something important and poetic.The characterization, as I said before, is basically absent. You have Adeline. By authorial design, she is so purposefully not your stereotypical female, that she inevitably becomes a walking stereotype. Rebellious, free-spirited, adventure-starved, want-to-see-the-world-so-bad. And of course, she adores books. The lovechild of Belle and Ariel, I'd say. Henry, Adeline's co-protagonist, would have been interesting, I believe, if the question of his mental health (if that's even what we're talking about, because everything is described so poetically and metaphorically and indirectly that it's kind of difficult to be sure and not to put your foot in your mouth) had been explored somewhat more in depth. Since it wasn't, I feel allowed to joke about how emo it is that at twenty-six he bargained all the years he had yet to live except one, only to have people not be disappointed in him. Because the whole thing is told without an ounce of finesse, so it feels simply ludicrous rather than actually sad. The last co-protagonist, Luc (I'm not going to comment on the fact that he is some sort of ancestral preternatural force, and we're just going to call him Luc), I don't even know. I still feel like we don't know enough about him to make a statement of any kind. I myself can't believe that I'm rating and reviewing this novel so harshly, but there it is. Believe me, I am just as incredulous and astonished as you are, if not, as is likely, a lot more. I was expecting The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue with trepidation, because I was so sure it would be a four- or even a five-star reading for me--and indeed, I feel like the premise was excellent, full of potential and conceptually rich; it was the execution that was clearly lacking, as I see it. Schwab had probably been spoiling me a bit too much, what with Vicious and the Shades of Magic series. Oh well. Next time then.*Before (more) people go about accusing me of shortsightedness, let me point out that those adverbs are there (and have been there since the very first draft of this review, I didn't add them in this edit, I just underlined them) for a reason. The same applies to my use of such expressions as "I think," "I'd say," "I believe." Translation: I, personally, feel that this specific book didn't manage to achieve the emotionally engaging and immersive effect it meant to have on readers because of shortcomings in the style. This doesn't rule out the possibility that some novel somewhere might employ a style similar to this, and succeed marvellously. That's all.
3075548949	This time, I’m truly at a loss for words. This masterpiece has left me speechless—utterly awed, adored, and deeply moved. I may even announce it as one of the top ten best books of the year.I know we’re only in the fourth month, and during quarantine, if I continue reading 10 to 14 books weekly, I could finish around 500 more books. But when you know, you know—this book is like unconditional love at first sight.It tells the unique story of a village girl who fiercely demands her independence, free will, and the right to make her own choices. She refuses to be just someone’s wife or mother. She wants to die standing tall, like the trees. So she prays to the old gods and the new, but no one answers—until someone does. She catches the attention of something dark. Before her wedding, she kneels on the soil and makes the grave mistake of praying after dark, summoning the darkness itself. She makes a deal with the devil (a green-eyed, curly dark-haired version of Lucifer Morningstar who might as well be wearing contact lenses) for her freedom, gaining immortality at the cost of being forgotten.That’s right. Adeline LaRue becomes immortal but also expendable, cursed to live like a shadow, leaving everyone she meets with a short-term memory loss. Each person she encounters becomes like Guy Pearce in Memento—forgetting her just moments later. That was the punishment from the charming and cunning devil she calls Luc. She can’t even speak or write her name. Only the devil can call her by it.So Adeline shortens her name to Addie and begins her epic adventure, witnessing centuries of history, mostly in European countries, seeing the French Revolution, world wars, and countless artistic, political, and socioeconomic movements.She loves, hurts, suffers, and endures neglect, abandonment, and abuse. She lives like a fugitive, learning to be a skilled thief, and each year on her anniversary, she meets with Luc, who wants her to surrender completely by giving him her soul.But her greatest strength is her endurance and stubbornness. No matter how lonely she is, no matter how often those she cares about treat her like a stranger, she still loves life and learns from her experiences. She’s wise enough to become unforgettable by leaving her mark on numerous masterpieces—drawings, songs, and books. Even her blurry photos leave a stunning impression on people. She enjoys art and is talented enough to leave her trace. That’s the real essence of immortality she contributes to the changing world.After 300 years of solitude, everything changes when she stops by a bookstore. Henry, the owner, is suffering from a broken heart and melancholia, searching for something but, like the song, still hasn’t found what he’s looking for—until he sees the girl trying to trick him by stealing books, and he remembers her name.Yes, after 300 years, someone finally remembers Addie. How? Who is he? Just a lonely boy longing to love and be loved in return! Addie thinks she’s outsmarted Luc and found her soulmate, but everything comes with a price—her free will and immortality. Is she ready to pay for unconditional love? Is there still hope for her future? Or will Luc win their duel with one final, deadly trick? Let’s get lost in this incredible journey to find out.The ending is surprising, but it’s also hopeful and motivational. I don’t want to reveal too much and spoil anything, but I wish I could read more of Addie’s adventures. Fingers crossed!This book is the ultimate tribute to living a fulfilled life and the healing power of art. Even though Addie is lonely, cursed, and abandoned, she’s strong-willed, tough, and fearless because she never regrets the life she has lived.One of my favorite parts of the book is this:“And she is tired. Unspeakably tired.But there is no question she has lived.‘Nothing is all good or all bad,’ she says. ‘Life is so much messier than that.’And there in the dark, he asks if it was really worth it.Were the instants of joy worth the stretches of sorrow?Were the moments of beauty worth the years of pain?And she turns her head, and looks at him, and says, ‘Always.’”So is this book worth falling in love with at the first sentence? ABSOLUTELY! Five stars aren’t enough!Many thanks to NetGalley and Tor Books for sharing this fantastic ARC and giving me the opportunity to read and review it. I loved it so much! This isn’t just one of the best books I’ve read recently; it’s now one of my all-time favorites by V.E. Schwab. I wish it would never end!
3553432493	CALLING ALL DEMONS. Attention: all ghouls, witches, wizards, sorcerers and -esses, devils, creatures of the night, and other harbingers of vaguely this-seems-like-a-bad-idea type magic…Let’s make a deal.According to this book, you’re making bargains with any bozo who sputters her way into seventeenth-century French bodies of water, and I want in on the opportunity.Yes, you read that correctly. Our protagonist, Addie LaRue, is a complete bozo. For those of you who have been living under a rock that no overhyped bestseller can permeate, 1) drop that address and 2) I’ll give you a lil synopsis, so you can continue your very wise decision to avoid this book but for my review (high praise, really).We begin with the most boring story ever told: A girl in seventeenth-century France who is bored. Her name is Addie. She has freckles that look like stars, for some reason, but you do not have to remember that because she and every other person she meets will never shut the ever-living f*ck up about it.Speaking of ever-living f*cks, Addie considers herself better than all those other girls who are also expected to marry and live normally, so she makes a deal with a devil-type guy that she’s allowed to live forever. In exchange, no one remembers who she is.Tough luck? I guess? I don’t know, I got sick of Addie complaining within about 4 months. And we have 300-some-odd years to go. So sorry your immortality isn’t exactly what you pictured. Boo-hoo.The whole thing reminds me of how I watched Marie Antoinette with a friend recently and spent the entire duration of it unable to believe I was expected to sympathize with MARIE ANTOINETTE. Sure, she had to get married to someone she didn’t want to marry...along with EVERY WOMAN ALIVE. Is it my fault she lived a life of incredible privilege and didn’t spend it very well? No, it’s not. And I won’t allow Sofia Coppola to punish me for it.Relatedly, no one could have lived from the early 1700s to present and done a worse job of it than Addie LaRue.She travels only within Europe until World War II (and really mostly in France at that), then moves to America and really sees nothing more than LA, NYC, and NOLA. (Love an initialism.) She manages to meet no people of color. She never considers slavery, revolution, women’s suffrage, or civil rights. She doesn’t travel to a single majority-POC area. She learns several languages, all of them Western.She is the most irritating stupid idiot alive. I want to throttle her.On top of that, this book has very little going for it other than pretty writing. (I’ll hand it to you, Schwab - your style went from doing nothing for me to almost distracting me from what a dumpster fire everything else was from time to time.)I didn’t like Addie for a second, but I tried to like everyone else. Henry, for example, seemed like he could be My Type, as a skinny guy who works in a bookstore - but he felt like anyone. Henry’s two (2) friends, who represent the entirety of the, well, representation in this book, seemed fine, but we never got to confirm or deny that because (as you may have already guessed from the inkling of diversity) they are almost never present.This just felt half-baked and silly. There was no plot to speak of until maybe the last 100 pages, and the ending was ultimately so disappointing and ridiculous that I almost wish the plotlessness had stuck around. Just a note, to any, ahem, authors who might find it helpful: If characters are boring and unremarkable, and the story feels flat, and the romance never hits, then going for a big emotional ending isn’t going to do much for anybody.Anyway. Yeah, I hated this.Bottom line: Dropping from a 3 to a 2 to 1.5. (The writing was nice.)---------------pre-reviewtook me long enough.review to come / 3 stars (actually 2)---------------currently-reading updatesat the rate i am reading this, i will finish it just in time for my 2021 wrap up---------------tbr reviewno, i have never enjoyed a VE Schwab book.yes, i desperately want to read this one.we exist
2028980949	"And no matter how desperate or dire, never pray to the gods that answer after dark." It's interesting. I read a couple of reviews for this book that said it was a slow-starter and took a hundred or so pages to get going, so I thought it was a good sign when I fell in love with it right away. The premise captivated me, drew me in, and took me away to another time and place; to an 18th century French village where young Adeline is being forced into a marriage she doesn't want. She prays so hard to escape the constraints placed upon women, and upon mortals themselves, but it seems no god is listening. In the end, she makes a desperate Faustian bargain and learns that old lesson: be careful what you wish for.Totally sucked in. The prose is a little more poetic than Schwab's usual style, but I think it worked. I also really got on board emotionally with the premise of this book. In exchange for immortality, Addie is doomed to be forgotten by everyone she meets, unable to leave a mark. As soon as she's out of sight, she's out of mind, never to be remembered. Her family forget her. She becomes a stranger to everyone she loves. It is, as you can imagine, a most painful lonely existence.I can see why some might find it slow, but I found it sad and infuriating enough to be engaging.It is that big chunk of book between approximately page 150 and 350 where this story lost me. As soon as the love interest arrived on the scene and the whirlwind romance started, I began to lose my emotional attachment to the story. A number of things about this part irked me. The way the purple prose bled over into dialogue (which I never like), the way I instantly guessed the truth about Henry, and, my god, the way we had to be reminded of his "black curls" every time he appears on page.We also get a lot of backstory about Henry and I have mixed feelings about it. On the one hand, I appreciated the discussions about depression and anxiety, and I honestly related to a lot of what the author describes here, but I also found Henry just quite boring in general. I wasn't interested in his relationships with his friends and family, so the chapters we spend with him dragged for me.It grew repetitive, too. After the interesting start, the story seemed to wander around aimlessly. Addie & Henry gazed into each other's eyes a lot between various flashbacks to Addie's escapades during the last 300 years. The darkness appears and whispers evil things, Addie meets people and is then forgotten over and over.I did like the ending, though. I feel like it will be polarizing because it is left somewhat open (though not for a sequel, I hope), but I liked the lack of neatness and found the final chapter very satisfying.One more thing. There's been a bit of controversy over how Schwab's adult books are often wrongly categorized as YA because she is a woman. While I have no doubt women writers do suffer this indignity, I've read a good amount of YA and adult fantasy from both men and women and I still cannot shake the feeling that this book has a very strong YA vibe to it. I know it's a completely subjective line to draw anyway, but I would be far more likely to recommend this book to YA fans than to fans of adult fantasy. Compare this to other women who write adult fantasy like Jemisin, Le Guin, Butler, Wecker and Marillier, and it's a whole different vibe and maturity level, I feel.
3758641091	Pretty book filled with pretty people and pretty writing. That's it.I felt like I was missing some weight or substance in this book. And I know why. There was to much (probably the most in any book that I've read), way too much of telling and less showing. Like the whole book was basically described to me; I couldn't live, learn it, or see it. And that was fundamentally most disappointing to me. We were living through someone else's view- a narrow field of view at that, and still could barely get a taste. Also this book is very white. We're told that Addie got to experience and travel to a plethora of different and vast places- Spain, Singapore, India, Beijing, etc...and yet we never even got to visit those places with her; instead, we're stuck in Europe- mainly France, Germany, and Italy. And then New York. So much could have been done and said in these other different places and countries that are full of rich history, context, and people of color. But I guess that doesn't matter because Addie has fully lived. Sure. We just didn't live long enough to see it (pun intended). It would have been nice to see Addie play some part or take part in large of the events and movements important in history regarding BIPOC and LGTBQIA, especially since Addie is bisexual in the book. But none of that is ever brought up. The writing for this book was incredible. Chef's kiss. My type of writing right here. Not too flowery or pretty; just the right kind of song, beat, and rhythm. Probably the best aspect of the entire book. Henry to me, was the better character to read about; I wanted to get to know him better and I preferred his arc over Addie's. Even though he's a basic lonely boy just wanting to be loved. Still, the ending of the book, I think, was the weakest. I could already tell what was going to go down and what would happen. Does that necessarily mean a bad thing? No. But if that was the scale of the ending to a whole premise based on bargain of immortality, finding love, and being able to live again, I would have expected it to be different, a roaring epic showdown of proportionate value.....instead it was kind of lame. Overall a book with a great premise and wonderful writing that ultimately fell a little too flat for me. Henry <3 I love you bb. Read for The Late Night Book Club3.75 STARSTwitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
4031947597	Please don't hate, okay? I know how much everyone loves this book, but for me, The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue was a very uneven reading experience, with some gems buried under seemingly mountains of fluff.Addie doesn't want the traditional 18th century life of just being a wife and mother at her poor provincial town. So on the eve of a forced marriage, she makes a deal with the devil for her heart's most fervent wish. Though that deal traps her in a curse, it also sets her on a most unexpected journey.My foremost thought while reading this book is: gosh, this sure is a very long book for the amount of content in here. Not much happens through most of the pages. The actual plot in here is fairly simple and straightforward. In fact, you could safely cut out a lot of the paragraphs and chapters and not lose any meaning to the story, which is never a good sign.So what is 450 pages filled with, you ask? Paragraphs and paragraphs of pretty writing. If it could be said in one sentence, it's said in several fluffy paragraphs. If one metaphor suffices, well, they come in sets of three or four, every time. It's all a bit much. In fact, it often seems as if the author cared more about putting together clever floral word arrangements than moving the plot along. The other issue is that Addie is fairly naive, so this book comes across as distinctly YA even though it's marketed to adults. Her decisions, her thoughts, her growth (or lack thereof), her romances, they all feel very young. Though we follow Addie through her youth and later years, her character sounds exactly the same throughout.Yet, for all the flaws, there is something undeniably charming in the story. I cared about the characters and what happens to them. And I found the premise intriguing. It reminds me of the movie The Age of Adaline, which takes a similar concept and does it much better, though coincidentally with a similar name.In the end, I liked this book enough. There were moments of brilliance that really made this story shine. But they were often buried deep under mountains of indulgent verbal gymnastics that tested my patience to the extreme. I can't help but feel this was a missed opportunity, that with some aggressive editing, this could've been a stellar read.~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧
3503301149	Words can't even begin to describe the beauty of this book.The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is a mesmerizing tapestry woven from heartbreak and desperation and yet, somewhere in the midst of the suffering, the pure joy of living. This book touched my heart in places I didn't know existed. It tore open the gates of my emotions and ripped them apart mercilessly. We follow Addie LaRue, a French woman longing for freedom, who strikes a bargain with a god named Luc. She will live forever—for a price. A blink, and Addie LaRue is gone. Turn away, and she is forgotten. Her name chokes in her throat when she tries to speak it. Words she writes are erased by an invisible hand. When she attempts to tell her story, she is silenced. Slowly, she loses hope. In her stubbornness, she refuses to give her soul to Luc, even as she begins to despair and finds herself the victim of blank stares and confused glances. Until she meets Henry Strauss, who speaks three words that change her life forever.I remember you.Schwab's writing is dreamy, poetic, lyrical, melancholy—lonely. Addie LaRue is so lonely, and you can feel her sorrow with every word she speaks. Her friendships dissolve overnight, her parents don't remember her face. And it physically pains me. No one but V.E. Schwab could have written such a delicate and pensive novel. What is a person, if not the marks they leave behind? Addie is a protagonist who lives on despite it all. She leaves her mark where she can, in blurry photographs and wistful song lyrics. She's not remarkable, but this works in the novel's favor. She is always forgotten; it wouldn't make sense for her to stand out. And yet, my soul was touched by her struggles and I saw bits of myself in her. The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is one of my favorite books of all time. It's quiet, not showy at all, but beautiful and lyrical and personal. Schwab poured her heart and soul into this novel, and it shows. ______I want to delete my emotions.RIP my heart.RTC
3630089318	There was so much hype about this book, but I don't really get it.The story itself is OK, but it has been done before. This book centers on a character named Addie LaRue who makes a deal with some "dark" character, Luc, that she can live forever. However, no one will remember her after she leaves their sight.There is a Blake Lively movie, "The Age of Adaline", where Adaline can live forever. The other character in the book is named Henry which is the name of the husband in The Time Traveler's Wife. So I really wish the author would have selected different names for her characters.Addie is completely selfish and thinking only of herself. Instead of thinking of Henry in the last part of the book, she is thinking about how smart she is. The character goes around and is so happy that she is part of all of this art. Why didn't she go to MIT and ask questions of the brightest and solve some major problems for society? Why doesn't she try to do something more than just have romantic encounters and steal things? What makes Addie so special? Nothing. She is very ordinary and uninteresting. Schwab could have taken us in different directions. We could have seen Addie at The Alamo, at the World's Fair, at the play with Abraham Lincoln, at a million different points in history. But we don't. What if Addie had a child and it died? I'm left wanting. On a positive note, I did enjoy Schwab's writing. The way in which she writes is almost lyrical. It is developed, but I wish that the plot was better. Also, if I had a dollar for every time, I read the words, "freckles", "black curls", and "pink umbrellas", I would be a very rich person. It was really overdone.I also put together this YouTube video to start a discussion on the book: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jLP_-...2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango
4353117513	IM SOBBING😭 it was soooo good!! SUCH a unique story. I kept putting myself in Addie's shoes and also thinking about what choices I would make and how I would live my life if I had Addie's curse (immortality & the inability to be remembered by anyone once out of their sight). It also touched on sooo many topics that I feel like I'm still processing - mortality, morality, mental health, memory, life's purpose, identity, etc. And its SO beautifully written. This is my first V.E. Schwab book and won't be my last! Other things I loved...Addie and Henry🫶🏼😭 Addie & Luc's complicated relationship (that I would read an essay on)Okay I will stop gushing & leave you with my favorite quote from the book (although there are so many good ones): "Listen to me. Life can feel very long sometimes, but in the end, it goes so fast. You better live a good life."
3575989202	3.5 stars. VE Schwab has consistently great writing as always and really wrote her ass off here. I can tell many of the internal struggles that the main characters go through (particularly Henry) come from a personal place in Schwab's life, and you can feel that earnestly pouring through the pages. This book would be enjoyed by people who like slower, atmospheric, and character-driven stories. I think this works if you relate to the characters; if you don’t, the narrative becomes quite repetitive and saccharine. The level of navel gazing is 110% and really lays it on thick - it feels like watching an artsy indie film with sentimental white hipsters and a splash of magic, albeit written elegantly!
3604666595	oh, addie. who could ever forget you? __________________________i honestly dont know what i could say that hasnt already been said. every positive thing you have read about this book, take it and multiply it by 100. thats how stunning this story is. ive always been a fan of schwab. i love how atmospheric, energetic, and wholly engaging her stories are. but wow. i would have never expected her to write something so beautiful, so alluring, so comforting. i really like this look for her writing and i hope she continues this style of storytelling. i think i would dare to say this is probably her best work to date. its that remarkable. easily a new favourite. ↠ 5 stars
3576220072	It's here! It's here! It's here! Cancel all the plans - it's reading time!! Update - 50% So far, so good! Such a compelling story - I'm addicted! Update - Finished Victoria. Did you have to rip out my heart and stomp on it like what? 5 stars but I'm also dead.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
3947567554	This. This is the book that got me back into reading. It did take me almost a month to read it because the writing was so beautiful and a lot to take in but it was so worth it. It’s so easy to relate to Addie which makes the book even more lovable. Overall 5⭐️
2065465098	IT'S OUT!!Love story between a French girl and the devil over 300 years...I tried to go into this book with low expectations considering romance isn't my genre and... Wow, this has to be V. E. Schwab's best book!I've always liked her writing but this character-driven, slow-paced story really works for her. It's closer to literary fiction than her other work and her characters are much stronger.Frankly, I recommend you go into it knowing nothing else.Pick it up!
3619945845	4.25
4098107859	Heartbreakingly beautiful (!!)I couldn’t even see the words the last like 20 pages of this book…no thoughts just tears 😀
6783894239	I feel like someone just punched me in the stomach
1645672195	oh SHIT
1828390611	Are you kidding me? 😭 This book wrecked me.I feel like this book was written for me because Addie is just the most relatable independent bad bitch and the way she talks about how much she loves books, movies and New York City, yeah that’s basically my brand. I’m not usually one to read historical fiction or fantasy but this book was magical. The writing was absolute perfection, so gorgeous I could cry just thinking about it. I love the idea of reading about a character who is cursed to be forgotten by everyone she meets, it was fascinating and I just can’t imagine how lonely she is. It’s devastating to imagine. I thought parts 2 and 3 were a little slow, but part 4 really knocked it out of the park for me and I loved learning more about Henry’s character. I just really adore Henry’s character so hard.The ending literally made me cry like a bitch. I made a weird gasping sound during one scene that really got to me and then it was a flood of tears until the last page. This is definitely an all time favorite, I’m not going to be forgetting this story anytime soon. Also kind of a side note here but the song cardigan by Taylor Swift came on as I was reading and now I’ll never listen to that song and not think of this book.“And when I felt like I was an old cardigan under someone’s bed, you put me on and said I was your favorite.” 😭
3617157731	an author spent 10 years writing a book that probably could be summarised by this: “addie has freckles. she’s forgettable. she made a dumb deal and plays the victim. oh and she had an exciting life. but no we don’t get to see any of it.”🤩WOW!🤩 doesn’t that sound ✨interesting?✨ because it’s not. it’s one of the most boring books i’ve ever read, and also one of the most overhyped. i’m sure you’ve seen some of my status updates about it, and let me tell you, the whole book is in the same vein. bland and just plain stupid. first let’s talk about the writing. now, i’ve seen reviews RAVING about the writing style, calling it “poetic” and “lyrical.” I totally agree. the writing is lyrical. if by lyrical you mean similar to the lyrics of Yummy by Justin Bieber. dull, repetitive and ridiculous. i have provided a template - if you use it and become a famous author, thank me in the acknowledgements. addie has few memories of her time in villon, the roots she planted slowly withering and shrivelling. remember to add a tree-based metaphor, because that’s not at all unoriginal and pretentious. she fingers the ring around her neck, the whorls carved into it bringing to mind luc’s eyes, deepening to moss green then swirling and changing to a bright leafy shade. she has spent many years schooling herself in languages, not just german and english, but also that of luc’s eyes. in case you forgot, luc has special eyes. like sweeping dust from the hearth, she forces the image out of her flawless mind and pictures instead the beach in marseilles, the castle in germany, the forests in prague. add a metaphor that doesn’t quite make sense, then mention how amazing her mind is, then do a list of places we never see her visit.see? I only did a paragraph and I can pretty much capture every technique ms schwab uses throughout the entire book.speaking of predictable, shall we delve into the plot? wait, there was a plot? I didn’t notice it because I was in a state of extreme boredom. the book follows addie, a girl from 1600s france. she is not like other girls, because she not only scorns the idea of a family, she also scorns anyone who wants to find a husband. she is going to have an arranged marriage, but she does not want to marry the man because he has waxy skin and bad breath. so instead of stealing some money and running away, she decides she wants to pray to the gods, which she isn’t sure exist. she messes up, stupidly, and accidentally summons a darkness god. the only sensible course of action is to make a bargain with him. and being the intelligent girl she is, she doesn’t bother to check the wording or ANYTHING (and you’d think she would know about unwise bargains considering how many fairy tales her dad tells) and winds up immortal, immune to dying and with the ability to do almost anything with no consequences. this is obviously a terrible situation to be in, with absolutely no advantages, and we should all sympathise with her completely. she doesn’t try to find a place to stay permanently in secret, such as sneaking into a hotel and being disguised as a servant so she has all the food she needs, because that’s too easy, and addie is not like other girls. instead, she resorts to crime, and yet expects us to feel sorry for her - which we all do, because addie can do no wrong. the timeline skips between history and 2014, weaving a story that is unforgettable. in fact, it is not like other books, because a normal author would depict addie in lots of historical events, showing her influence in history. but this book, because it is quirky, skips every single war and event that I can remember. isn’t that interesting?in the present day, addie steals a book and gets caught. she comes back the next day, and the bookseller says - wait for it - “I remember you.”SHOCK! the bookseller, who is called henry, agrees to let her buy coffee for him to make up for it. and because there are places on her skin where the melanin is concentrated, they fall in love. and it’s not insta love, because there’s a ✨big shiny reason✨ for their love. it’s because he REMEMBERS her!!! :D the only thing you need for a loving relationship. this plot summary has gone way too long so i’ll stop there. but i’m sure you get the idea.now i’m going to talk about characters. the only one I liked was a cat called book. and he doesn’t even have any lines, smh. first up, we have addie la poo. she’s selfish. (towards the end, she volunteers to sell the soul of a random stranger to save henry’s life. she’s boring. her number one personality trait are her freckles, which in case you haven’t heard, are like stars, because that makes sense. she’s stupid. throughout the whole book, my face was like: 🤦🏻‍♀️😩🙄😳🤞🏻🥴next we have henry, one of the love interests. (yes, one of. as if it wasn’t already awful, this book has a love triangle. kind of. it’s very underdeveloped.) he’s forgettable. ironically. he’s boring. the only reason addie likes him is because he remembers her. he’s also very very stupid. maybe there’s more to the attraction than I thought. and now we have luc. he’s the demon that addie la poo makes the bargain with. he models himself as the stranger addie dreams of one day meeting, except for his ✨eyes✨ which speak a ✨language✨ and which mark him as ✨speshul.✨ schwab’s about as original as popular tiktokers, with less of the dancing. last of all, the romance, otherwise known as insta-love-with-no-actually-good-reason-for-it-and-dull-angst-and-also-many-secrets-which-don’t-interest-me. please, don’t make this a common thing in YA fiction, because combine it with a love triangle and I want to spontaneously combust. addie steals something from henry and doesn’t act very sorry, which is obviously a forgivable sin and which henry shouldn’t take as a red flag. obviously. he doesn’t judge her for literally anything, and he forgives her for everything, and doesn’t pry even when it looks like she might be doing ✨bad things✨ because a partner trusting you blindly is desirable. anyway, I don’t have much to say about the romance because there was basically none. anyway, I hope you enjoyed the review because that will make up for the irritating life of addie la poo.
3476969961	This book is pure id and i love it.
2832880169	if you came here for a love story between a girl and the darkness she made a deal with, don’t even bother. i think that the story was actually pretty good but it wasn’t what it was advertised as. i thought this story would be about a girl falling in love with the devil and it wasn’t at all, which is fine but when you have so many people hyped up because we think we’re going to get the villain and the protagonist in love but you don’t write that i feel like it’s kind of cheap. it was a love triangle and it was quite pointless. it was like she needed one thing to help push the story along so she just came up with a whole person and made them the love interest. but i don’t think her being in love with him was very believable at all. i think that V.E. Schwab has a habit of writing her female characters to be “not like other girls” and i was hoping that it wouldn’t be the same but sadly it was. i think that she tends to self insert with her characters when it comes to that aspect and you can very much tell. someone please tell her it’s okay to be girly and that being “different” and not into what makes you feminine doesn’t make you special, it feels very put downish. i wanted to like this book so much because her writing was better than it typically is and i liked a lot of the quotes a lot and i liked the fact that we learned why Addie wanted to live forever and saw people forgetting about her. even how some chapters were in present day and the next was in the past. but i just feel bamboozled like why advertise it as something it clearly isn’t? like i said the book is good and i can understand why people would love it, i just feel like, don’t make the book out to be something that it isn’t because for people who came for the romance are going to be very disappointed and speaking of the romance, i feel like the romance in general was poo poo. i don’t think that Schwab is good at writing romance at all. i hated nothing more the corny ass ending too, i don’t mind ambiguous endings but this one was just so bad, it’s something i would’ve wrote in my 5th grade fictional books i used to do for class.
3745458753	— 3.5 stars ✰do u sometimes ever feel like a book is that good, it scratches a part of your brain and just engraves itself in there? yeah, didn’t happen. i found it to be terribly dull and flat.in 1714 addie larue made a deal with the devil, a deal where she could escape an arranged marriage. but what she didn’t know, was that she would be forgotten by every person she ever meets, couldn’t tell anyone her name or story, became an immortal and was doomed to live a lonely life.now, i don’t have any type of connection to addie nor any sympathy towards her. what the hell did she do in the three hundred years that she’s lived? absolutely nothing. we get zero. i wish we could’ve seen her at more places, historical events or just see her throughout different revolutions. instead we watch her walk around some cities being mopey and stealing things. ever time addie meets someone, they are enthralled by her. they either draw her, write a song about her or just get inspired by her.. but, why? sure, she’s got seven freckles that look like stars apparently.. but what else?we get flashback and present scenes in this book so when three hundred years later in 2014 she meets henry strauss, she is shocked to hear the words she thought she would never hear again. “i remember you.” henry is a sweet character, but then again, what else? he seemed to be bland and dull, i got no connection to him at all. ofc i was intrigued by his character since he wasn’t affected by addie’s curse but the lack of chemistry between them threw everything off all over again. i was shipping addie more with luc, who she made the pact with. he actually had a character and wasn’t such a bore. their chemistry was unmatched, especially in the last 100 pages of the book. isn’t it crazy that i was actually rooting for him? “dance with me,” he says as a new year begins.“be with me,” he says, as one decade slips into the next. this is a great example for amazing idea, terrible execution. the flashbacks were incredibly repetitive, i didn’t find it gripping until 40% and even after that it was still immensely slow. there were some peak points throughout the book but never enough thrill to keep me hooked. the only things i liked about this book were the idea and the poetic writing of v.e. schwab. this book is more telling then showing, i didn’t feel like i was living through the book, i couldn’t connect with the characters or the plot. thank you, vio for buddy reading this with me. even tho the book was a bit flat, i still had an amazing time reading this with you <3
3254583405	if you want to hear my thoughts on this book, i talk about it in detail in this video: https://youtu.be/YujTcoThv0M
3556330135	1.5 stars0.5 is for that great idea behind the book.The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue was one of the most anticipated and popular books of 2020. The premise? Very promising. Imagine this. An immortal girl no one remembers, turn around and in no time she’ll be slipping out of your mind. Imagine what historical events she would’ve been able to witness. What role she could’ve played. The ways she could’ve helped. Or. The three centuries-old romance with the devil with whom she made her Faustian deal.But no. It’s mostly about Addie sleeping around and whining. And then meeting a guy (who is not the devil) and “loving” him. Don’t let that false advertising fool you.I originally gave this book 2 stars but I couldn’t name a single thing that I liked about it. What’s an imaginative idea without a solid plot to bring it to life? Nothing. The Characters Addie, our main character, made a deal with the devil to escape a marriage she didn’t want. Then she spent the whole book complaining about how unfair Luc was. Girl, what did you expect? A perfect life? An easy life? HE’S THE DAMNED DEVIL. Of course, it’s not what you’d expect! I found all this whining very tiring honestly. With the attitude of a modern girl even in the 1700s, Addie’s character did not develop an inch. She sounded the same all those years. Her personality was also invisible (ha).In case you don’t know yet, Addie has 7 freckles ok? In case you haven’t noticed them on the cover, Schwab will remind you of this constellation (*eye roll*) every few chapters. They should add it to GR trivia because the only two things I know about this book before starting it is the vague premise and those “pretty” 7 freckles. Also, why is she a muse? A timeless beautiful muse that all artists are drawing and painting? Why is it her so many times? Like many, I also found the fact that she can grow but not destroy, illogical. She could’ve grown so many trees!! Earth is dying! But not let’s spent idle days in the gorgeous New York (of course, she will live in New York).It took her 10 years to learn writing and reading! 10 damn years! She knew the basic letters so how?!! But hey she’s super-genius mind you. She speaks Swiss. Even Swiss people don’t speak this nonexistent language. But Addie oh *acts nonchalant* speaks Latin, Greek, English, French, SWISS, Italian, etc.(ref: “She can speak German, Italian, Spanish, Swiss, but French is different, French is bread baking in her mother’s oven, French is her father’s hands carving wood, French is Estele murmuring to her garden.” Part 3 Chapter VIII“Henry stares at her, marveling. “How many languages do you know?”“Enough,” she says, but he clearly wants to know, so she ticks them off on her fingers. “French, of course. And English. Greek and Latin. German, Italian, Spanish, Swiss, some Portuguese, though it’s not perfect.” Part 5 Chapter VI Honestly, this pisses me off. It’s very American self-centered. Barely know about the outside world but hey let’s throw names around. Other than being a completely bland character, Addie spends time telling us about her sex life rather than how she went to Iceland or more than this couple of pages about “helping” in the war. But nah, these things take research which Schwab barely bothered with.Henry, the other dreadfully dull main character, is one of the least interesting love interests I have yet to come across. All the Henries in the world excuse me but the name is so boring. Not that his personality was any interesting. I really can’t find the words to express how unimpressive I found this guy. I would’ve found him more intriguing if his mental health was more highlighted (view spoiler)[ instead of casual mention of drugs and alcohol and then don’t worry love will make everything better. The deal he also made was another level of stupid (hide spoiler)]. He sounded like a teen seriously and not someone in their late 20s.Furthermore, I DO NOT APPRECIATE WHAT HE DID. Regardless of the other person’s willingness. It is still rape because it is not actual consent.Luc now was better than both characterization wise. We were promised a romance between the two but what we got was a barely explored love-hate relationship. AND A DAMN LOVE-TRIANGLE. Also, why is he so fascinated by Addie? Why is so sssssspecccciial? More special than all the legendary names who made a deal with him? Luc was constantly throwing such names around. Her personality? The FRECKLE STARS maybe? I certainly hope not. Also, the devil doesn’t like wars. Ok sure. Nonexistant Plot The plot was very repetitive. Actually, there almost no action whatsoever. I’m confident I would’ve dnf this book if it wasn’t for the audiobook. I recently discovered that I’m enjoying slow-paced books much more when I listen to the book instead of reading it. But I do have limits. Sometimes I just wanted to shout at the narrator SHUT UP I DON’T CARE. This book gave me a headache. I wish I was joking. I don’t listen to audiobooks while sitting idle. I had this work I needed to do that allows me to multitask and listen to audiobooks. 17 hours listening to this. Eventually sped it up to 1.5x and I wish I did so way earlier. The pace was painfully slow and nothing was happening except for Addie Walking. And nagging. And remembering the coffee she drank in Paris. Or was it Berlin? I really don’t give a shit. And bragging about the languages she can allegedly speak (did she know there’s Ancient and Modern Greek and they are different?? But no Greece is very far from the US, I doubt it).Also it would’ve been much better if the book was cut in half since there’s very little going on. Surprisingly so for someone who lived very long. The Writing If the lack of action didn’t make me DNF this book, the writing definitely would’ve. It’s very repetitive and follows a very similar pattern all the time. I’m not into lyrical writing and proses. And this book is all about it. Luckily, these weren’t very obvious in the audiobook. EXCEPT FOR THE AND YET. I can still hear it in my ears I swear. Additionally, we have lots of dark curls mentions *eye roll* I was reading some experts from several reviews, and damn it is so overdramatic to read. Minor spoiler (view spoiler)[ Also didn’t Addie love him for just being the first person to remember her and not because of his personality? It felt that way to me. And they thought they outsmarted Luc. Aha ok. (hide spoiler)]Ok enough of me now complaining about this book. The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue will be slipping out of my memory in no time because it left absolutely nothing with me. The Night Circus fans would probably enjoy this book since that one was also boring. I might be unfair because I didn’t like the narration of that one but they gave me similar vibes. The narration here was good, honestly.I have no idea why people are loving this book, I didn’t expect to be one of them but I surely did not imagine such a mess. People felt so much reading this book while I had to keep myself from rolling my eyes. Makes me wonder if I read a different book featuring the same characters.
2080548582	okay wow i loved this book. i have been SO excited to read this and it truly was beautiful and unlike anything else i've ever read. i loved the structure of the book - how each chapter was set in a different year/place in addie/henry's life. i loved addie and henry so much.it's definitely a slow paced book with stunning writing. this is my favourite ve schwab book in terms of the writing style. SO many good quotes. thank you TOR for sending me an early digital copy for review <3
3588045038	4.5 StarsI'm having a hard time thinking about what I want to say here, but I want to get something down before this review ends up in the "review to come" abyss, never to be seen or heard from again. The irony there, right? Anyway...I LOVED this book. Especially the first 220 pages. Schwab's writing was superb. I actually have two complete series by her on my shelves and have yet to finish a single book by her...I'm hoping I didn't set myself up for constant disappoint here by making my first finish by her be her best. But I digress. The writing. Soooooo good. Truly. I am not a fan of purple prose, really. And while I don't necessarily think this was full on purple, it was definitely poignant and almost lyrical at times. Schwab has a way of describing things that makes them tangible. Something unique and yet very everyone at the same time. And Addie...What a character. I just adored her and her story. Especially, as I said, the first 220 pages of it. After that...well, that's were that -.5 star comes in, I suppose. Without giving spoilers, I will just say that the tone and haunting quality of the story changed a little bit when Henry arrived on scene. And I couldn't help but feel that something had been lost even though I know we, along with Addie, were supposed to feel like something had been gained.Or maybe that was the point. Before starting this, I had an idea of how things would end...and I was actually right. I just didn't know I would enjoy how things would go so much. But I think the journey is perhaps the point, isn't it? Anyway, I don't want to give anything away, so I will stop here. Some things are better left open-ended, no?
3712465536	if I could give this 10 stars I would. I love this book so much. There has never been writing in a book that I have connected to more than in this book. The author literally has a gift. I will be taking this book to my grave. I think about this book all the time. It is my favorite book of all time. This is the first book I’ve read it five stars. I love these characters so much. I would die for them. I just want so much more even though this is a standalone. could not have been done better. Now I will be buying every single copy of this book in every single version
3428571923	dear book community, i am SO SORRY that I didn't love this as much as most of you did :( my most disappointing read of 2020 by far. don't hate me for the semi-rant review coming up... many of my main issues are spoilers, but we'll get to that later. in the meantime, one problem i had with this book was that i couldn't connect with addie as a character at all. i didn't care about her. i felt like she somehow had no personality but at the same time her ENTIRE personality was just her talking about being invisible. my other problem was henry. again, i didn't love him or even like him. i feel like if his backstory was more interesting, i would've liked him more, but i didn't sympathize with him at all. i think my disinterest in addie and henry could've been because there was virtually NO banter or humor between them at all, so we didn't get to see much of their personalities. their only conversations were pretentious ones about the meaning of life and blah blah blah. which brings me to my next point, the romance. there was a love triangle between luc, addie, and henry, and you can already guess which side i was rooting for (hint: not addie and henry). But, much of the book focused on henry and addie's romance, which i'm sorry to say was the DRYEST romance i've read in a while. where was the flavor?? chemistry?? banter???? the only thing they had going for them was the soulmate stuff, but that just made it more boring. i was rooting for luc and addie, but even that relationship was pretty weak. ok, the plot: after the beginning, which showed how addie made her deal with luc, the plot just became nonexistent?? like, we just followed addie around the world doing nothing for 300 years. i get that many people would like that kind of thing, but i didn't since there wasn't much of a point to a lot of the plot. SPOILER SECTION!!!what made me the maddest was the ending. i totally understand how many people could love the ending or even become emotional over it, because it was pretty intense at the end. i was just angry. so you're telling me not only does addie leave henry (i was so happy at that part), but she ALSO plans to leave luc?? so basically, neither of the romances worked out. i was getting so excited for luc and addie to be together, but in the last two sentences of the book we're told that she's going to try her hardest to make him hate her so she can be free of him. great. what i'm saying is,,,, THE WHOLE BOOK WAS FOR NOTHING. im sorry. it had to be said. all the romance building for not one but TWO relationships was just thrown down the drain in just a few pages. nothing that happened in the story mattered in the end. ok if you've made it this far and agree with me, thank you because i don't want to be the only one who didn't like this book. if you're ready to throw hands, please don't because i wanted to like this SO SO much and I adore V.E. Schwab's writing most of the time!! wow this is the longest review i've ever written imma sign off now,,, bYE
3650981969	4.5 Ta książka totalnie mnie wzięła z zaskoczenia. Przepięknie napisana, niesamowicie oryginalna i tak dobra... Jestem pod dużym wrażeniem. Najlepsza książka Schwab jaką czytałam, polecam absolutnie każdemu. Jedynie zakończenie, ostatnie 20 stron mnie nie przekonało, stad urwane pół gwiazdki. Ale tak naprawdę nie był to jakiś duży minus, myślę, że to jedna z najlepszych książek z tego gatunku jakie miałam okazję czytać. Kurczę, myślałam, że nie polubię a tu taka niespodzianka! Czytajcie ❤️
3263470470	With great regret I feel I must be a dissenting voice in on this book. I know I started out loving it, but as I delved deeper, the rest of the story didn’t materialize for me. I have always said that voice is the Big Kahuna of writing, it’s the “everything” of writing. This book has plenty of voice, and the character is real and three dimensional as well. These are two of the most difficult components to get right. The author did a wonderful job with them.Part of my disinterest might be centered around all the hype and wonderful reviews that set my expectations too high.For me there are four parts to a story, the four C’s, conflict, complication, crisis and conclusion. The conflict, the contract with the reader that tells the reader what they are instore for in the story sets up the story arc for failure.Addie makes a deal with the devil a time prove trope that leaves great avenues of creativity to mine. The opening voice and the character were stunning and started out being everything everyone was saying about it. But, and this is a big but, the set-up or conflict put the author in a box and left little maneuverability. In the deal with the devil that Addie makes, she lives forever (if she chooses) with rules that are too restrict and choke the story. In her new life’s path, she cannot leave any type of mark on society. People forget her shortly after they meet her, so this cancels out the romantic component that could’ve been wonderful. She cannot be killed so this cancels out any jeopardy. People read for emotions and conflict is emotions. Without romantic tension or physical jeopardy what is left for the reader to cling to? As soon as the book left the Conflict and dropped down into the Complication the author lost me as a reader, DNF.Another facet of the structure that dumped me out of the “Fictive Dream,” (that is so critical for a story’s success), is the sense of vignettes verses overall story arc. The story is told in two time periods which is intriguing in itself if there were a romantic or physical danger component. There is a sense of short stories being strung together verses multiple stories being braided together heading for a dynamic conclusion. For me there are five things a scene needs to work and a couple of them are missing here in each scene.Many great books are ruined for me because I am unable to put aside my desire to deconstruct the writing. I believe that is the case in this book. I can easily see why so many readers rave about this one. Alas, I am not one of them. David Putnam Author of The Bruno Johnson Series.
6253440967	3.5This is such a tough one to review. It was SO beautifully written, but that wasn’t enough to keep me motivated. I honestly think it could have been half the length, especially with all the repetition of explaining how the curse works. Like I get it, no one remembers you. I was really only invested in the story when Luc showed up. I’d probably read a spin off about his ventures. Overall, such a cool concept and so well written but it dragged on. And on. And on...
3602651187	”Stories are a way to preserve one’s self. To be remembered. And to forget”.En el mundo existen muchos tipos de libros: los que lees y te gustan, los que luego olvidas, los que definitivamente fueron una pérdida de tiempo y los que se convierten en tus favoritos. Pero hay otro tipo de libros, otro tipo de historias, que llegan a ti y cambian todas las reglas del juego. Son esos libros que no son sólo una palabra después de otra, sino aquellos que trascienden las páginas y se sienten como algo real y a la vez intangible. Son esas historias las que llegan a lo más profundo de tu corazón y se hacen un lugar allí. Y ese es, exactamente, el tipo de libro que es The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue.Mi libro favorito del año empieza en Villon-sur-Sarthe, un pequeño pueblo de Francia, alrededor de 1714. Adeline es una chica que ha vivido allí siempre y que, seguramente, también morirá en ese mismo pueblo. Su vida está diseñada: será una buena mujer, se casará y tendrá hijos. Pero la realidad es que Addie sueña con conocer el mundo, con escapar de ese pequeño pueblo, con hacer que su vida sea relevante. Así que un día, cuando ve que su destino está a punto de sellarse, corre hacia el bosque y, en un intento desesperado, le reza a los dioses para que le den más tiempo, para que la dejen irse de allí. Sin embargo, el dios que acude a su llamado es aquel de la oscuridad y si hay algo que le advirtieron a Addie siempre fue que nunca le rezara a los dioses que responden después de que ha oscurecido. Así que Addie hace un trato con la Oscuridad y gana la inmortalidad, sí, pero a un precio altísimo que descubriría poco después. Su castigo por ser inmortal es que absolutamente nadie la recordará, nunca. Cada persona que conozca la olvidará al cabo de minutos, horas. Y tampoco podrá dejar su marca en la historia escribiendo, pintando o de ninguna otra manera. Ahora, 300 años después, Addie está en Nueva York y cree que ha aprendido a vivir con su maldición, que está acostumbrada al olvido y a las visitas anuales de Luc, la Oscuridad. Pero todo su mundo cambia cuando, un día aleatorio, un chico que trabaja en una librería la recuerda. ¿Será un fallo en la maldición o una jugada calculada de Luc para darle algo de esperanza y arrebatársela después? No sé si voy a ser capaz de transmitirles en esta reseña lo absolutamente espectacular e inigualable que es este libro. Hay muy pocas historias que me hayan hecho sentir lo que sentí leyendo The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue, de verdad. El Nombre del Viento es una de ellas, así que calculen. Para que un libro entre a lo que yo llamo mi Olimpo literario no solamente tiene que tener una historia que me fascine, que me haga sentir muchísimo y que me deje con la certeza de que no la voy a olvidar pronto, sino que debe estar escrita con un estilo especial. Y creo que V. E. Schwab lo logra. Cada palabra de The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue se nota que está tremendamente cuidada y es evidente que Schwab quiso transmitir aquí lo importantes que son para ella las palabras, las historias, el arte y la composición. No tengo ni idea de si me estoy explicando bien, pero este es de esos libros que da gusto leer, que se sienten como arte y que, definitivamente están escritos con el alma. Y qué decirles del personaje de Addie. Es una chica tan fascinante que, literalmente, quisiera ser ella. Me fascinó que, incluso siendo una mujer del siglo XVIII, se atreviera a soñar en grande, a desafiar las convenciones y a atreverse a firmar un trato con la Oscuridad. Addie es alguien que, a lo largo de siglos, demuestra que la inmortalidad está hecha para ella, que no la va a desperdiciar y que va a asumir cada una de las decisiones que la llevaron hasta donde está. Y sí, Addie es una mujer que se enfrenta de cara a los desafíos, pero también es vulnerable. Y se quiebra. Y llora. Y sufre. Es la inmortal más humana que podríamos conocer nunca. Y amo esa sensibilidad mezclada con tenacidad. De Addie también me encantó su adaptabilidad y que, llegado un punto, dejó de lado cualquier convención y supo que, así nadie la recordara, iba a disfrutar de los placeres de la vida. Y quizá esa es una de sus facetas más interesantes, que, a pesar de todo, se permite tener sentimientos. Y sabe que va a salir lastimada, que la van a olvidar, pero es lo suficientemente valiente como para vivir el momento y no encerrarse en una coraza. Ahora hablemos de Henry, ese hombre tremendamente dulce que recuerda a Addie. Va a sonar repetido, pero a él también lo amo. Henry trabaja en una librería y todos los días de su vida pretende que está bien, cuando en realidad no es así. Y me sentí tan identificada con él y con toda su historia. No les voy a revelar mucho, pues realmente conocemos al verdadero Henry muy adelante en el libro, pero sí que les voy a decir que muchos hemos estado en los zapatos de Henry. Muchos hemos vivido esas tormentas que lo azotan y, además, hemos querido encontrar una solución a esa nube que siempre tenemos por encima. Y sí, Henry es alguien espectacular. Y adoro que sea él quien, después de siglos, haya recordado a Addie. Él es, en definitiva, una persona llena de matices, secretos y arrepentimientos y quería abrazarlo durante todo el libro. Y el último gran protagonista de esta magnífica historia es la Oscuridad, Luc, ese dios al que quisiera rezarle cuando ya ha oscurecido. Sí, este ser es una fuerza ancestral de la naturaleza, es la falta de luz, es la representación de los pecados y de los deseos más primals y profundos, es aquel a quien no deberíamos acercarnos. Pero es en los brazos de él en donde siempre terminamos cayendo. Luc representa la sensualidad sin límites, lo prohibido, el placer por el placer. Y sí, lo correcto sería decir que adoro a Henry y odio a Luc por todo lo que hace con las almas de quienes hacen tratos con él, pero la verdad es que la Oscuridad me cautivó en esta historia. Claro que es manipulador, perverso y no debería redimirlo, pero siento que Luc es un ser tremendamente solitario y que, en el fondo, siempre ha querido a un igual, a alguien con quien compartir la eternidad. Y, vamos a ver, no soy inmortal, pero de soledad sí que entiendo. Lo que crea V. E. Schwab entrelazando las vidas de Addie, Luc y Henry es una historia, contraria a la maldición, inolvidable. Ver nacer la esperanza en los ojos de Addie cuando Henry la recuerda es sublime. Sentir el miedo ante la posibilidad de ser olvidada de nuevo es aterrador. Entender los designios de la Oscuridad y todas las jugadas de poder que ha hecho a lo largo de los siglos es embriagante. Y vivir cada una de esas experiencias de esperanza, miedo, amor, poder, deseo, desesperación, soledad y el sueño de dejar una marca en el mundo es algo que hace de The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue un libro magnífico. Y nunca me cansaré de decirlo. Vivir de la mano de Addie y Luc los diferentes períodos de la historia, las guerras, los momentos de esplendor, las peleas, los desafíos y los amores perdidos es algo que quisiera hacer una y otra vez. Creo que V. E. Schwab de verdad logró transmitirnos la importancia de las historias, el miedo a ser olvidados y la angustia de no tener suficiente tiempo para cumplir todos nuestros sueños. Addie y Henry son dos humanos que podríamos ser cualquiera de nosotros, todos tenemos anhelos por los cuales estaríamos dispuestos a vender nuestras almas. Y ojalá existieran Lucs que hicieran realidad esos deseos, da igual el precio. Ahora, si creen que no serían capaces de hacer eso en la vida real, lean The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue y dejen que Luc, Henry y ella misma los atrapen entre las páginas para que, a través de ellos, vivan la experiencia de lo que es rezarle a los dioses que responden cuando ya ha oscurecido.
3209521001	"Deja vu. Deja su. Deja vecu. Already seen. Already known. Already lived."It's no secret that Victoria Schwab is a well-known and widely beloved artist of the written word, and I'm a huge fan of their work, my personal favorite being Vicious. She has a way with telling stories in a lush, atmospheric manner, while keeping their stories entirely approachable to readers of all kinds, which is something I admire and respect immensely. My 3-star rating of Addie LaRue is HIGHLY subjective and a result of my own personal reading experience, so I recommend you take my thoughts loosely and experience this sweeping saga for yourself. Initially, I was off to a good start, as I had heard the second half is much more engrossing than the beginning, yet I was entranced from the very first page. I flew through the first 150 pages at breakneck speed and found myself trying to sneak in moments with my audiobook copy (thanks Libro.fm!) as Julia Whelan is a global treasure. Much to my surprise, once the initial love interest was introduced, and the prose fell away into heavy dialogue, I think I felt like I had entered into a new story and wished I could transport back to that inceptive atmosphere I had fallen in love with. There is a twist as to why Henry can remember Addie, and it felt a bit heavy handed in how obvious the general basis of that twist would be, but I don't think that was a make or break factor in my reading experience. At the risk of including spoilers, I'll be vague, but if you've read my bio on my profile then you know what type of a reader I am and what I generally cheer for in my stories. If you've read this book already, then you know where I'm going with this, but if you haven't, then you may want to be briefed of the controversial ending, in both content and execution. There's a bit of a love triangle that happens throughout the second half of the book, and let's just say that my ship did not set sail. *whomp whomp* This heavily impacted my final rating, as I felt my investment of 450 pages was quite extensive compared to the pay out after completing the final page. Regardless of my selfish thoughts, I do hope you give this a chance for yourself, and that you experience the magic and poetic prose included in Addie's story. I'll be waiting eagerly for Schwab's next novel. *Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.
3712992295	THIS is a story not soon forgotten.Exquisite.I have enjoyed many books this past year, but this is probably the ONLY one, that I will remember for years to come. THE book that I would vote BEST of 2020.I finished with tears streaming down my face, and when asked to describe WHY, hours after I set the book aside, I couldn't finish explaining to the friend asking, because my sense of melancholy was still so strong, that I got choked up again, while sharing the story...The funny thing is that because it's genre is fantasy-I wasn't sure that I would even like it, let alone LOVE it, as MY IDEA of fantasy was limited to magical beasts, legends and folklore.THIS IS HOW IT BEGINS...Born in 1691, in Villon-sur-Sarthe, France is a girl called Adeline who loves to draw in charcoal.A girl with seven freckles across her nose like a constellation of stars...“NEVER PRAY TO THE GODS WHO ANSWER AFTER DARK”Desperate to avoid an ordinary life, one in which she will belong to someone other than herself, she makes a deal with the devil..She will live forever, but the price to be paid is that nobody will remember meeting her."MOMENTS UNWRITTEN, MEMORIES ERASED" within minutes...for 300 years.The thing that kept her going in this lonely, heart-breaking life, was books..stories...Then, in March of 2014, Addie, will discover an almost hidden used bookstore. Set off from the curb, and down some steps, sits "The Last Word".It's only employee, a young man named Henry.A man who the next day, when Addie returns will say..."I REMEMBER YOU"But how can that be? THIS IS HOW IT BEGINSHOW WILL IT END? An EPIC story spanning the globe over the course of Adeline's 300 years..with a DEDICATION in the end, which moved me to tears.Six stunning stars! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I am so glad to have read this!
3529303077	If the word 'beautiful' had a face, it would be this book.
2623523227	oooh, goodreads choice awards finalist for best fantasy 2020! what will happen?life is very long when you’re lonely.i’m not really into romance or romantic fantasy, but it’s not so much a genre-aversion as it is a preference for a different conflict-and-resolution pattern than characters finding love and being happy. i like my stakes a little higher.* BUT, two of my all-time favorite books are Wuthering Heights and Jude the Obscure, so gimmie a book about a doomed romance or whose characters are tragic n’ hopeless, and i’m yer tragedy-mosquito, drawn to the despair, and THIS drop-everything-else chonk of a novel contains not one but several tragic n’ hopeless romantic liaisons in the very long life of addie larue.the very long part of her life starts in 1714 when she’s 23 years old and living in a tiny village in france. after years of successfully dodging suitors, our adeline is about to be married off to a recent widower and yoked to an unwanted life of babies and housework, seeing nothing, being nothing.desperate to avoid this fate, she appeals once more to the ancient powers she believes have kept her happily unwed for all these years; through her prayers and small offerings. and, yes, she has been warned: "The old gods may be great, but they are neither kind nor merciful. They are fickle, unsteady as moonlight on water, or shadows in a storm. If you insist on calling them, take heed: be careful what you ask for, be willing to pay the price...And no matter how desperate or dire, never pray to the gods that answer after dark."on this occasion, she mistimes her request, making a deal with the wrong god, and trades her soul for a chance to live a life on her own terms, belonging to no one but herself. and while she does indeed get what she asks for: ”I want a chance to live. I want to be free...I want more time.”and while she does indeed think herself very clever for giving him the “payment due” date he demands without really committing to a timeframe: ”Then take my life when I am done with it. You can have my soul when I don’t want it anymore.”she nonetheless underestimates the whole slippery nature of powerful immortals and the monkey’s paw fine print that’s always underpinning their dealmaking, so YES, addie will neither age nor die; he’ll grant her a life as long as she still wants it, BUT he’ll make it much less wantable. YES, she will be free and she will not belong to anyone, BUT she also won’t be remembered by anyone—a stranger to her family and friends, forgotten by new acquaintances the moment she is out of sight. additionally, nothing of “her” will last; she’s unable to leave any mark at all, which includes writing, being photographed, keeping or moving objects around (although there’s some latitude there—i’m not fully clear on all of the exceptions (view spoiler)[like, how does she move that TREE over to estele's grave? where it continues to grow? did i miss a loophole? (hide spoiler)])this curse has numerous everyday consequences, and i am DEEPLY ENAMORED with v.e. schwab for addressing so many of them, because most authors would just focus on the juicy emotional/interpersonal obstacles without considering how it complicates practical matters like food/clothing/shelter/travel, which are FURTHER complicated in the early years by gender, where a woman had less freedom to be on her own, and all of the scenes of addie acclimating to the rules of her new life, figuring out what she can and cannot do (e.g.—dining out alone is impossible when the waitstaff forgets not only your order, but that you are even there, on their way to the kitchen) are some my favorite in the book, and also the most quietly heartbreaking. and yes, there are plenty of juicy emotional/interpersonal obstacles: awkward dinner parties and even more awkward morning-after scenarios as her partners wake up next to a woman they’ve never seen before. addie’s romantic life becomes some kind of mashup between About Last Night(ellipsis) and Groundhog Day, having to introduce herself over and over again to people who have been—to her—long-term lovers while she skims through their perception; from stranger to lover to forgotten over and over. and goddamn, that’s a lonely life, reduced to a shadow, a thief, a fragment of a dream, It hurts too much, watching them forget her.but addie is stubborn and still hungry for life and adventure and she is not going to give up that soul of hers just because no one remembers her. and then, after three hundred years alone, she meets a boy who does. and her life gets better and harder and sadder.and i loved it. i loooooooved it.this mosquito is sated.ALSO: i thought this was meant to be a standalone, but that ending is a little slithery. if this is the end-end, i think it is absolutely perfect as written. however...it opens a door, and it's a door i would not hesitate to walk through if invited.*which sounds snarky and i do not mean it to be. i just skew a little darker and prefer "deeply haunted" to "happily ever after."********************************oooh—hello, cover! REVIEW TO COME!!ME (rosy with bourbon, surrounded by my plush truefriends): "this book is BIG!!EARLIER THAT EVENING:v.e. schwab is a woman of dynamic sleeves and elegant bowing, glowing from within. a good time was had by all, and everyone purelled.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2396260763	I received this complimentary ARC from the publisher, in exchange for an honest review.Buddy read with my faveeee, Tabi!!! <3 <3 <3“Do you think a life has any value if one doesn’t leave some mark upon the world?”WOW. What a book. What. A. Book. How do I even begin to describe this masterpiece??? V.E. Schwab just may have outdone herself this time (and this is the eleventh book I've read of hers, omg)! I don’t know how she could possibly top this book in the future. Not only is this her best-written book to date, but you can also see that it’s her most personal one, as well. You can see how much love and care went into this, which is probably why it’s also been in the works for as many years as it has. It’s truly amazing to see how artists pour so much of themselves into their art. “What she needs are stories. Stories are a way to preserve one’s self. To be remembered. And to forget. Stories come in so many forms: in charcoal, and in song, in paintings, poems, films. And books. Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives – or to find strength in a very long one.”One of the best parts of this book is honestly the plot itself, with all of the twists and turns that it entails, and what an unpredictable path that the story takes, so I’m not going to ruin it for anyone by going into too much detail. Sorry, but you don’t want to ruin the wonderful surprises for yourself. “The darkness claimed he’d given her freedom, but really there is no such thing for a woman, not in a world where they are bound up inside their clothes, and sealed inside their homes, a world where only men are given leave to roam.”Meet Adeline LaRue. A young, spirited, French girl who, unfortunately, happened to be born in the wrong time and place, where women were unable to have the freedom that she desired. Rather, they were expected to marry young, tend to the homes, and bear children for their husbands. This goes against everything Addie wanted in life, such as exploration and adventure. She wanted to carve her own mark onto the world, rather than going through the motions of a life dictated as being proper for a woman in the small French town of Villon during the 1700s. She didn’t want to merely EXIST. She wanted to LIVE. “And no matter how desperate or dire, never pray to the gods that answer after dark.”Thus, when her wedding day came around, and she was faced with a man she did not love and a life she did not want…she ran. Ran to plead with the gods for another sort of life, a better life, where she could live her dreams, rather than damning herself as the other women in her village have. She didn’t want her spirit to die along with her freedom. She wanted to see everything the world had to offer. She didn’t want to waste it because society decided that it was time that she should settle down, not when she hadn’t even begun to live. “I gave you what you asked for, Adeline. Time, without constraint. Life without restriction.You cursed me to be forgotten.You asked for freedom. There is no greater freedom than that. You can move through the world unhindered. Untethered. Unbound.”Unfortunately, it happened to be dark when she said her prayers, and it wasn’t a benevolent god who answered. A trickster offered her a deal, a deal she foolishly accepted in her desperation for freedom. But Addie wasn’t one to lay down and submit at the first sign of hardship. No, for 300 years she’ll play a game of cat and mouse with the god who took all of her desires and fashioned it into a curse that she refused to surrender to. “This is the silence of a chess game being played. And this time, Addie has to win.”As we watch Addie over her 300 years of life, we see that she desires to hear three words more than any others … “I remember you.” And finally, after all these years, she meets Henry, a Jewish bookseller, who is as lost as she is, with monsters of his own, and who, for some reason, remembers her name. Over the course of this novel, we watch Addie, the god and Henry in this beautiful dance throughout time, and wonder how these three lives will ultimately come together and, unfortunately, how this poignant story will come to an end. (Despite my five-star rating though, I will admit that I wanted a bit MORE from this novel. Considering that we were promised a love story of 300 years between a girl no one remembers and the devil, I felt a tad cheated because that's not really what this was. I won't go into detail because #spoilers, but I definitely felt that this was a case of false advertisement.)“Being forgotten … is a bit like going mad. You begin to wonder what is real, if you are real. After all, how can a thing be real if it cannot be remembered?”I will say that this is a very slow, yet compelling novel. It’s very romantic, yet bittersweet. It definitely has the vibe of a historical novel as we travel with Addie over her 300 years of life, but it is also most definitely supernatural as you see the darkness trying to wear down Addie’s spirit, as she travels through the centuries, completely and utterly alone. I absolutely adored this and devoured it as fast as I could (something I definitely regret now, because you can only read a book for the first time once…but how could I have stopped myself? It’s simply THAT GOOD). So, do yourselves a favour and pick up this gem of a novel when it releases in the upcoming months. <3
3087746864	Maj 2023: Całym sercem kocham tę książkę. Przeżywam ją całą sobą.Listopad 2020: In the town one morning I wentStaggering through premonitions of my death I don't see anybody that dear to me(fragment tekstu Fleet Foxes- Tiger Mountain Peasant Song)
3284549910	3.5 stars, I have mixed feelings about this one! Immediately after finishing it, I was certain that it was going to be a new favorite of all time and that I absolutely LOVED it. Now that some time has gone on since I finished it, I'm not so sure that my review is quite as glowing as I thought it would be. I did enjoy the book, but I can't ignore the fact that it really seemed to drag on a bit too long. Also, I enjoyed Addie as a character for the vast majority of the story, but there were parts where she really gave off big Not Like Other Girls energy and I couldn't un-see it after I noticed it was happening. Overall, I did really like this and it definitely is my favorite from Schwab, but it wasn't quite as ~perfect for me~ as I was hoping it would be.TW: sexual assault, suicide, alcoholism, drug abuse, addiction
5785657703	v. e. schwab wrote this for the hopless romantics and the sad humans of the world. I think v. e. schwab wrote this for me.
5817611305	A masterpiece. 💖✨”Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives—or to find strength in a very long one.” ✨✨✨✨✨✨This book deserves all the stars.If I could scrub my brain clean just to experience it again for the first time I would. No hesitation. The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is more than just a story. It’s an experience. It’s become one of my favorite books of all time.”Listen to me. Life can feel very long sometimes, but in the end, it goes so fast. You better live a good life.”The setting is rich, the storytelling is breathtaking, but the true magic of this novel lies in Addie herself. Her resilience. Her fire. Her unshakable spirit. She’s easily one of my favorite FMCs ever written. She is unforgettable which is the most fitting, painful irony of all.The writing? Absolutely gorgeous. Every sentence feels deliberate, poetic, and soaked in meaning. I was completely enthralled by the dual timeline structure it lets you walk beside Addie from the very start, watching her evolve, struggle, and fiercely exist. And you can’t help but fall in love with her.This book is so much more than a romance. It explores the ache of being forgotten, the hunger to leave a mark, and the deep, desperate human need for connection. It’s a story with soul.The prose is breathtaking. The pain is exquisite. And the love? Don’t even get me started. This book makes you ache in places you didn’t know existed.I’ll be thinking about Addie for the rest of my life and I think that’s the most beautiful irony of all.Genre preferences aside, this novel transcends them all. It’s one of those rare reads I’d recommend to absolutely everyone. I will never be the same. ✨"But this is how you walk to the end of the world. This is how you live forever. Here is one day, and here is the next, and the next, and you take what you can, savor every stolen second, cling to every moment, until it’s gone.”✨"What is a person, if not the marks they leave behind?”✨"...it is sad, of course, to forget.But it is a lonely thing, to be forgotten.To remember when no one else does.”✨"Three words, large enough to tip the world. I remember you.”“✨What she needs are stories.Stories are a way to preserve one's self. To be remembered. And to forget. Stories come in so many forms: in charcoal, and in song, in paintings, poems, films. And books.”
3389070892	It took V.E. Schwab almost ten years to write this book. If I didn't have the audiobook, that's how long it would take for me to read it. Trust me, I wanted to enjoy this one, but it was impossible. You know when you're reading a thriller, and you're desperately turning pages to find out what happens next? That's the exact opposite of how I felt reading The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue. The story is about Addie, a French girl who makes a deal with the Devil and becomes immortal. However, every person she meets will immediately forget about her when she leaves their eyesight. How could V.E. Schwab write a boring book with this premise? I DON'T KNOW. Here's what she did right: having an extremely interesting idea. That's it. You can tell that she put a lot of work on the writing, but it was so heavy that it became exhausting at chapter 10. And there were over 100 of them, so imagine me thinking that I'd never get to the end (which, by the way, was so cliché). I also have to say that I was shocked by how a mostly character driven book could have such two dimensional protagonists, who had no chemistry at all with each other. Every time V.E. Schwab tried to do something emotional, I was just rolling my eyes, because I just didn't grow attached.I do not understand the hype, what a waste of my time.
3236280926	This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 “Never pray to the gods who answer after dark.” First of all I am very thankful for the publisher for providing me with an E-ARC of the book in exchange of an honest review.It is no longer that I am a big fan of Victoria Schwab because she’s simply a great human and author. I loved her ADSOM series, The Villains series and even her Monsters of Verity series. I am planning to go back and read the rest of her backlist books but when I knew that I have a chance to read her upcoming book, I didn’t think twice and jumped right into it.As usual, Schwab has the weirdest, most creative synopsises and the idea of a girl falling in love with the devil is something I simply couldn’t resist. when I got into this, it was a bit of a weird experience because it is unlike anything I have ever read by Schwab. I am kind of used to her mystical world-building and action scenes. This was kind of different! “You know,” she’d said, “they say people are like snowflakes, each one unique, but I think they’re more like skies. Some are cloudy, some are stormy, some are clear, but no two are ever quite the same.” The book starts kind of slow and I was a bit confused and did not know where things were going but at some point, everything felt into place and just clicked in my mind and I had an overwhelming wave of emotions crushing me because it was so good and it made me happy.The book does tell us the story of Addie and we follow her through her life and see her growing as a character, and although I liked Addie and enjoyed reading about her, it was the story of Henry that really got into me. Simply he was one of the characters I related to most in my 5 years of reading books. The experience of just reading and seeing yourself in a book is not something you get to experience occasionally so I was just so happy when Henry was introduced and growed more and more. I do believe Schwab’s success is due to her character-writing skills and this time was not different at all.The world building was not extensive because it takes place in our world but it certainly has the magical spark that Schwab’s has given us in her previous books. Mix this with the killer prose (I know it is either a love or hate kind of prose and fortunately for me, I do love it) and you get this excellent book. I was hesitant at first and a bit pessimistic after the fist few chapters but then this ended up being one of my favorite books by the author. “You are not capable of love because you cannot understand what it is to care for someone else more than yourself. If you loved me, you would have let me go by now.” Luc flicks his fingers. “What nonsense,” he says. “It is because I love you that I won’t. Love is hungry. Love is selfish.” And if you were wondering about the devil romance then yes, it is there and it is not just a clickbait from the synopsis. Actually the devil was excellently written too. The plot takes a bit of time to develop but it certainly is there and certainly is good. The book works both as a standalone and I believe it could be extended into a series. (I have learned that it was a standalone after finishing it) “But a woman must take responsibility for her own education, for no man truly will.” Summary: Although this is different from Schwab’s other books, it ended up being up one of my favorites as it has the usual magical prose, world building and plot and most importantly characters that I would die for. The story takes some time to develop but it is worth it. The simple cover is kind of an abstract to what the story is hiding and although I wasn’t a fan of it initially, I do like it more now and I am planning of buying a copy when the book is released. And I am certainly waiting on my tiptoes for whatever Schwab comes out with next!!You can get more books from Book Depository
3338764662	TW: loss of loved ones; suicide; drug and alcohol abuse; sexual assault This is a winding, atmospheric, character study of a woman who sold her soul to an old god to live as long as she wants but be remembered by no one. It’s a quiet story of a life led only in the present, with all the suffering that would entail but also broken up by beautiful moments. It’s a story of relationships, and all their complicated parts. I haven’t traditionally been a fan of Schwab’s work, but she hit the mark for me with this one. This is a softer story than she usually does, and I appreciate it. I’d also love to see this adapted, and I say that about few stories.
3209030831	2021 F.A.B. Bookclub pick # I.❤️. F.A.B. Oh. My. God. 🤗 You guys!!! You MUST read this masterpiece. I’m wrecked... 😭😩😍❤️😉... Addie LaRue is a life story that will chip away at your soul. Addie is inspirited, stubborn and lovely. The Darkness, Luke, is so vicious and charmingly exquisite. Henry is wistful and cloudy. This book has me yearning for more magic, that is this life and world that Victoria so graciously shared with us. 🥰 I could go on and on, but please- if this is on your TBR list- do yourself a favor and move it up. It’s simply incredible.
3487830014	ONE OF MY BESTIES GAVE ME THIS BOOKS AS A BDAY PRESENT. SCREAMING, CRYING AND THROWING UP. I'M SO HAPPY!-just editing because i'm listening to right where you left me (aka my fave song ever) and i wanna reread it so bad because i'm that 23 y/o girl who's asking for more time, who wants more than the little and miserable life she has. i nEED TO REREAD ASAP5/5 Did I finish this book, or this book finished me? “Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives--or to find strength in a very long one.” I met Addie LaRue on October 7. We sat down and she shared her story with me. She remembered very few details of her life before July 29, 1714. After dealing with her stranger, her life changed and Addie stopped being human; or at least she felt that way, although she did not consider it so until later.I shared with Addie more than I expected. I mean, I knew this book was going to kill me from the moment I read the synopsis, but when I finished reading it, when I got to the last page, I was enveloped in tears, snot, joy, pain and the gods know what other emotions.It was like reading a book about me. I have so many mixed emotions that I don't know where to start without breaking down and crying. I feel like I was with Addie in every step, every moment and every memory.As if I had been her. Strange, isn't it? But the emotions she evoked in me have no explanation and no comparison. I was with Addie when she went to the market for the first time with her father, when he gave her a notebook and pencils to draw with. I was with Addie when she grew up and felt that it wasn't the life she wanted, when she felt that she was suffocating, that she didn't fit into her body or into Villon, when everything around her was transformed and she didn't know when everything changed and became unrecognizable.I was with Addie in the forest, when she made the deal because she wanted more time, she wanted to be free, to belong to no one; more time. I was with Addie when no one recognized her and she felt hopelessness, sadness and pain. She felt forgotten, as if she never existed; and she did. I shared with her every pain, every heartache, every heartbreak, every new experience, every romance, every happiness and tears.I had not felt for years that I identified so much with someone, that it seemed that they were talking about me; that perhaps -weird, I know- I was reading my life through someone else's words. I have cried with Addie, I have laughed, I have fallen in love with everyone - Addie's rebellion, courage, happiness and love; Luc's arrogance and eyes; Henry and Book's life ; Estele's crow's laughter; Remy's smile; Sam's face; Toby's songs - and I have found myself surrounded by places, times and characters that have given me so much.I didn't want to finish the book. I felt like it was a fundamental part of me, something I had and didn't know; that had been hidden away in some nook and cranny of my heart. Hidden from me. I held on to every word, every feeling, every character, and I loved them.V.E. Schwab has given me so much in such a short time. Everything is perfectly structured. Some may consider it very slow and even boring, but to me it has seemed fair and chronological. The prose is excellent, perfect I would say. I was wrapped up in a metaphor that I didn't know where it began or where it ended - and I didn't want it to have an end. And in the end, I know that Addie will be with me, that I won't forget her, that I will carry her with me always.I've always considered that every book tears out a part of me, and replaces it with a part of her, but what about this one? What did Addie take from me? Nothing. She gave me back something that I already thought was lost: hope. This book became very personal in some ways, and I don't think I've ever felt so much in such a short time.So, thanks, Victoria, for giving me this. For showing us Addie's life.
4565753623	“𝐵𝑜𝑜𝓀𝓈, 𝓈𝒽𝑒 𝒽𝒶𝓈 𝒻𝑜𝓊𝓃𝒹, 𝒶𝓇𝑒 𝒶 𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝓉𝑜 𝓁𝒾𝓋𝑒 𝒶 𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓊𝓈𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓁𝒾𝓋𝑒𝓈--𝑜𝓇 𝓉𝑜 𝒻𝒾𝓃𝒹 𝓈𝓉𝓇𝑒𝓃𝑔𝓉𝒽 𝒾𝓃 𝒶 𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎 𝓁𝑜𝓃𝑔 𝑜𝓃𝑒.” ˚ ༘ ೀ⋆｡ ˚“𝒲𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝒾𝓈 𝒶 𝓅𝑒𝓇𝓈𝑜𝓃, 𝒾𝒻 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓂𝒶𝓇𝓀𝓈 𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓎 𝓁𝑒𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝒷𝑒𝒽𝒾𝓃𝒹?” * ੈ ♡ ༘ ⋆‧₊˚ ☁️⋅♡𓂃 ࣪ ִֶָ☾.★☆┊ ┊ ┊ ┊ ┊┊ ┊ ✫ ˚♡ ⋆｡ ❀┊ ☪︎⋆⊹𓆩♡╰┈➤˗ˏˋ Addie LaRue flees her hometown in 18th Century France, a time when women were expected to be nothing more than Wives and Mothers, settling down, marrying an esteemed husband and giving birth to any number of children. Honestly, I don’t think I could’ve survived the harsh restrictions and limitations that women were faced with back then! Bearing this in mind, I absolutely couldn’t help but instantaneously and utterly feel for Addie LaRue, no one wants to ever be stuck in one place at any one given time, we all want to live a full life and discover all the joys within it (whether it’s hearing a certain piece of music for the first time, appreciating a piece of artwork, tasting a certain food, let alone seeing the beautiful sights all over the world, big or small).However, through Addie's eyes, we’re projected into her life from when she was a wide-eyed, curious young girl, to 2014, back and forth between France, New York and many a place in between as Addie lives through Wars and so much more, planting the seeds, trickling an idea, being a Muse, inspiring Creatives throughout history, all while never being specifically remembered aside from these glimmers of ideas, those 7 starry constellations, those freckles that dot her face so beautifully, forever a cause of awe. Never remembered, only with her dark Companion as a reminder of the bargain she once made, for such a long time, until one fateful encounter with a young man in a corner New York Bookshop. ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ Henry Strauss remembers Addie LaRue.⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀:¨ ·.· ¨:⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ ⠀⠀ `· . ꔫ“...𝒾𝓉 𝒾𝓈 𝓈𝒶𝒹, 𝑜𝒻 𝒸𝑜𝓊𝓇𝓈𝑒, 𝓉𝑜 𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑔𝑒𝓉. 𝐵𝓊𝓉 𝒾𝓉 𝒾𝓈 𝒶 𝓁𝑜𝓃𝑒𝓁𝓎 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔, 𝓉𝑜 𝒷𝑒 𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑔𝑜𝓉𝓉𝑒𝓃. 𝒯𝑜 𝓇𝑒𝓂𝑒𝓂𝒷𝑒𝓇 𝓌𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝓃𝑜 𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝑒𝓁𝓈𝑒 𝒹𝑜𝑒𝓈.” 𓏲 ࣪₊♡𓂃˚₊ · »-♡→ “𝒯𝒽𝓇𝑒𝑒 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝒹𝓈, 𝓁𝒶𝓇𝑔𝑒 𝑒𝓃𝑜𝓊𝑔𝒽 𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝒾𝓅 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝓁𝒹. 𝐼 𝓇𝑒𝓂𝑒𝓂𝒷𝑒𝓇 𝓎𝑜𝓊.”╰┈➤˗ˏˋ V.E Schwab has longtime been a favorite Author of mine, her writing is just so lyrical and absolutely glorious to read, so magical and lyrical, whimsical and just all kinds of spectacular! Right from that first page, where it all begins, where the reader meets a girl running fast, The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is just completely evocative in its nature! It practically instantly became one of my favorite books of all time, and I know I’m going to reread it many a time over and continue to be spellbound by it!“𝒜 𝒹𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓂𝑒𝓇,” 𝓈𝒸𝑜𝓇𝓃𝓈 𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝓂𝑜𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇. “𝒜 𝒹𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓂𝑒𝓇,” 𝓂𝑜𝓊𝓇𝓃𝓈 𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝒻𝒶𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇. “𝒜 𝒹𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓂𝑒𝓇,” 𝓌𝒶𝓇𝓃𝓈 𝐸𝓈𝓉𝑒𝓁𝑒. 𝒮𝓉𝒾𝓁𝓁, 𝒾𝓉 𝒹𝑜𝑒𝓈 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝓈𝑒𝑒𝓂 𝓈𝓊𝒸𝒽 𝒶 𝒷𝒶𝒹 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝒹.”“𝒯𝒽𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝒾𝓈 𝒶 𝒹𝑒𝒻𝒾𝒶𝓃𝒸𝑒 𝒾𝓃 𝒷𝑒𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝒶 𝒹𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓂𝑒𝓇”━☆・*。 ・゜ °。+ * 。 .・゜ ゜｡ﾟﾟ･｡･ﾟﾟ。 ﾟ。 ｡ﾟ ﾟ･｡･ﾟ “𝐵𝑒𝒸𝒶𝓊𝓈𝑒 𝓉𝒾𝓂𝑒 𝒾𝓈 𝒸𝓇𝓊𝑒𝓁 𝓉𝑜 𝒶𝓁𝓁, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝒸𝓇𝓊𝑒𝓁𝑒𝓇 𝓈𝓉𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓉𝑜 𝒶𝓇𝓉𝒾𝓈𝓉𝓈. 𝐵𝑒𝒸𝒶𝓊𝓈𝑒 𝓋𝒾𝓈𝒾𝑜𝓃𝓈 𝓌𝑒𝒶𝓀𝑒𝓃𝓈, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓋𝑜𝒾𝒸𝑒𝓈 𝓌𝒾𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓉𝒶𝓁𝑒𝓃𝓉 𝒻𝒶𝒹𝑒𝓈.... 𝐵𝑒𝒸𝒶𝓊𝓈𝑒 𝒽𝒶𝓅𝓅𝒾𝓃𝑒𝓈𝓈 𝒾𝓈 𝒷𝓇𝒾𝑒𝒻, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝒽𝒾𝓈𝓉𝑜𝓇𝓎 𝒾𝓈 𝓁𝒶𝓈𝓉𝒾𝓃𝑔, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝒾𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝑒𝓃𝒹... 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝓌𝒶𝓃𝓉𝓈 𝓉𝑜 𝒷𝑒 𝓇𝑒𝓂𝑒𝓂𝒷𝑒𝓇𝑒𝒹”“𝐵𝓁𝒾𝓃𝓀, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓎𝑒𝒶𝓇𝓈 𝒻𝒶𝓁𝓁 𝒶𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝓁𝒾𝓀𝑒 𝓁𝑒𝒶𝓋𝑒𝓈.”“𝐵𝓁𝒾𝓃𝓀 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊’𝓇𝑒 𝓉𝓌𝑒𝓃𝓉𝓎-𝑒𝒾𝑔𝒽𝓉, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝑒𝓁𝓈𝑒 𝒾𝓈 𝓃𝑜𝓌 𝒶 𝓂𝒾𝓁𝑒 𝒹𝑜𝓌𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓇𝑜𝒶𝒹, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊’𝓇𝑒 𝓈𝓉𝒾𝓁𝓁 𝓉𝓇𝓎𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓉𝑜 𝒻𝒾𝓃𝒹 𝒾𝓉, 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝒾𝓇𝑜𝓃𝓎 𝒾𝓈 𝒽𝒶𝓇𝒹𝓁𝓎 𝓁𝑜𝓈𝓉 𝑜𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓉𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝒾𝓃 𝓌𝒶𝓃𝓉𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓉𝑜 𝓁𝒾𝓋𝑒, 𝓉𝑜 𝓁𝑒𝒶𝓇𝓃, 𝓉𝑜 𝒻𝒾𝓃𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊𝓇𝓈𝑒𝓁𝒻, 𝓎𝑜𝓊’𝓋𝑒 𝑔𝑜𝓉𝓉𝑒𝓃 𝓁𝑜𝓈𝓉.”˚ ༘ ೀ⋆｡˚ “𝒮𝓉𝑜𝓇𝒾𝑒𝓈 𝒶𝓇𝑒 𝒶 𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝓉𝑜 𝓅𝓇𝑒𝓈𝑒𝓇𝓋𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒'𝓈 𝓈𝑒𝓁𝒻. 𝒯𝑜 𝒷𝑒 𝓇𝑒𝓂𝑒𝓂𝒷𝑒𝓇𝑒𝒹. 𝒜𝓃𝒹 𝓉𝑜 𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑔𝑒𝓉.”˚ ༘`✦ ˑ ִֶ 𓂃⊹
4844602641	I can honestly say I’ve never read anything like this book in my life, in all the best ways.The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue tells the story of Addie, a young woman who traded her soul for immortality. However, everyone she meets forgets her, she cannot leave any impact on the world. But centuries later, someone changes that. The plot to this book was so incredibly unique, I absolutely loved it. I found myself talking about it to anyone who would listen, whether they like books or not. I always find it astounding when an author is able to come up with something completely new. Schwab absolutely nailed it with this book. I loved learning the ins and outs of Addie’s curse. The writing is absolutely stunning, I found myself noting so many sections where Schwab had created such a beautiful sentiment through words. The writing itself is truly a work of art. The book also deals with some incredibly important topics which I didn’t expect but absolutely loved! My main issues with this book was that I felt it was a little long, and a little bit too repetitive for me. After a while the same things just seemed to keep happening, similar flashbacks involving the dark, people forgetting Addie. I understand that this is the premise, but it just took some of the originality and enjoyment away from me. That being said, I loved the last section of the book and found myself really moved by it, I even had tears in my eyes at one point! This has definitely solidified my love for the fantasy genre and I absolutely want to read more books by this author.I recommend this book to fans of fantasies with a romantic/historical fiction vibe threaded through it.
3214240483	You can only read this book for the first time once. Make it count.
3619583009	3.5I know The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue will probably end up on a lot of people's favourite bookshelves this year, but having finished it, I can't say I'm in the same boat. Why? Well, mostly due to the blatant emphasis on prose over plot and unfortunately, character too.When Addie LaRue is forced into a marriage with no hopes of escaping her boring life, she mistakenly makes a deal with the devil after dark. He grants her wish – Addie will live forever, at the price that no-one will ever remember her again. For 300 years, Addie roams the world alone, unable to make true friends, fall in love beyond a night, even say her name. That is until 2014, in the quiet corner of a bookstore, she hears the words she’d given up on: I remember youUpon hearing the plot of the book, I expected a very different story. I think the concept is beyond incredible – whether it’s been done before or not, I’m not sure, but it sounded like a refreshing story that I couldn’t wait to devour. Devils, immortality, a mixture of art, history and the meaning of memory/time thrown along the way. I couldn’t wait. Add to that, a modern day depiction of depression that sounded like it’d be utilised to its full potential, I was hooked. Now, there was definitely a lot about this book I loved. I want to preface this by saying I know where my four stars went. The writing was supreme, each sentence depicting a full blown film in my mind. This style may not be for everyone – there is a lot of repetition and the word weaves maybe a touch too poetic for some – but I adored it, and there’s no doubt I’ll buy the physical copy just to pore over the similes, the structure, each inch of the prose again and again. Secondly, the themes of time and memory always have and always will speak to my soul. Me being a weird, emo child was obsessed with both from a young age and the older I grow, the more fascinating they become to me. Is my life worth any meaning if I have nothing to prove for it at the end? Is life just a stitched passage of journeys, good and bad, and then ultimately nothing? Am I wasting my youth? Conversely, is Addie’s life a waste since though she is immortal, she cannot write, draw, create without disappearing instantly? She does and does not exist at the same time. I say this as I type my review on laptop, wondering should I be doing something else instead, noticing the time ticking in the corner. Well, lucky for you, no. There is clearly nothing better in the world that I should be doing right now. (Watch as the camera pans in mockumentary style on all my wasted potential, trophies sitting in the background behind me.)So, yes I can say both were executed very well for me through Schwab’s writing alone. I can’t emphasise enough how her prose saved the book for me. Because this book isn’t what I was expecting and I’m not sure if it’s a good thing or a bad thing. Speaking of wasted potential. What is this book about? I gave a little summary above, if you’ve read it. I’m notoriously good at avoiding plots (seriously, if you give me a bestseller, I could not guess what it is about unless the title is blatantly obvious), but this one seemed simple. Girl is cursed. Girl travels the world for centuries. Girl feels lonely. Girl meets boy. Now, apparently some people expected a villain as the love interest. Maybe that was an earlier release, I don’t know. But I truly believe this plot did not explore the book’s true potential. I expected Addie to go through wars, events, see the whole world to its fullest. Honestly, the most she goes to is America, Paris, and her village (Florence for a bit too.) Maybe it’d be less frustrating if inklings of this other plot hadn’t been given off. Occasionally, Addie will mention how an image or a piece of music will bring her back to, City, City, City. Those cities never get beyond being The Rule of Three. They’re placed there so we’ll believe she’s cultured or well-travelled, as if her immortality wouldn’t give us that idea. But the bulk of the story takes place in Paris and New York, and I wouldn’t even say Paris gets as focused a lens as New York does. And I would’ve loved to see a girl live through so many different wars, revolutions, and we know she has, because we’re told it, but the closest we ever get to see is a World War Two scene which takes up maybe? Three paragraphs. I’m pretty sure she’s also supposed to be a spy during this time, but the book payed about one line of attention to it, so who knows? (Let’s ignore the impracticalities of her being a spy, since everyone forgets her once she’s out of sight and it’s not like she can write anything down to secretly slip into their hands)That’s the issue. We know Addie’s been all these things, or seen all these things, or done all these things, but it’s never shown, only told, and not even in proper detail. Now, there are a load of interesting scenes regarding Addie's curse. But, oh boy, does this book have problems when it comes to “show, don’t tell” and that is primarily the characters.Addie…I’m not sure what her personality is. She has seven freckles, I can tell you that. They look like stars, everyone says so. She likes reading and drawing, you know arty stuff. Her voice is written really, really well, though it's usually only focused on the plights she suffers. And I’d be okay with that...if Addie isn’t supposed to inspire every artist she meets. This is one of her core characteristics. She’ll met a guy or girl, they’ll draw or paint her in that evening, then they’ll forget her. Of course, the artwork never can fully capture her appearance, nor can photos, but there’s always an element of allure and mystique to them. To summarise bluntly, everyone she meets is so entranced by her and think she's the most spectacular person ever. But why? She’s not particularly witty or charismatic. The book will consistently tell us how amazing she seems (without showing it), so it makes some kind of sense that everyone falls in love with her on contact. If this was part of her curse, sure, I’d believe it. But it’s not, so I’ve just settled on she’s hot. Like, really, really hot. Supermodel type of hot. I never knew there was such a fetish for freckles, but there’s got to be if people are this drawn to her (ha! Puns). (Also, Addie seems to be in a load different art works, but don’t think we ever meet these artists or learn their experiences of getting to know her or being with her. There’s two, three maybe max? Once again, the showing part of the story being ignored) (Also Number 2: Addie mopes the entire book. And I know these kind of circumstances realistically call for Endless Moping, but God, it would be a lot more interesting if Addie wanted to do something fun every once in a while.)Let’s move onto main character two, and that’s Henry. This book could’ve be renamed The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue AND Henry, and I would've accepted it. He gets his own section and there’s more to his character than we expect. Initially, he is the first person to ever remember Addie which I can say was a pretty impactful moment to read about. Then they begin a relationship (let's ignore the age gap), and we learn more about him. He’s a sweater vest wearing, bookish kind of guy. He’s nice. Nice is the key word. Sometimes that often co-ordinates with being bland in books, and it's no different here.See, Henry’s got his own troubles. I can’t remember if it’s named in the book, it’s clear he has depression, and possibly anxiety. Good mental health rep is hard to find and I thought this book would be it. When Addie asks him “would you rather feel nothing or everything?” and his face goes blank, I thought “oh, this is going to be real.” But, personally, I rarely felt the emotion of Henry’s suffering, even when it was written so well. And then something (no spoilers) happens to him, and his reaction to it for the rest of the novel felt a little underwhelming? It was once again felt like his feelings were told, rather than shown. Likewise, the chemistry between the two wasn’t visible for me, either than him being immune to Addie’s curse which is reason enough to strike up a relationship, I guess. I don’t think the emotions ring true though, and it may be because of those prose. It’s clear Schwab has poured these similes and metaphors onto the page after years of practice and planning, but it feels a little too clipped, a little too perfect to carry the realness. Words don’t compensate for the actions that incite our feelings. I could be wrong, but that’s my little estimate anyway. Still, I’d rather Addie and Henry have been friends over lovers.As for the real plot, I suppose, it’s Henry or Addie showing each other around New York, intersected with flashbacks to Addie’s past which is primarily in France, or her hating the effects of her curse along with some moments with the Devil dude. It’s a kind of cheesy, indie movie plot which will win some Oscars and become an aesthetic for tumblr (and don't worry. This is becoming a movie) They show each other the joy of living through things they haven’t seen before. And I do believe that element is executed so well, even if it’s not what I wanted once again. Lastly, I need to address, Luc, “the night”, whatever he is. He literally is The Darkling, and I didn’t even like The Darkling. I don’t know how I felt about him, because he was such a petty, possessive hoe, but he still was more interesting than Henry. Those looking for your love interest, you’re going to get it, just don't think he's any different from the toxic, dark guys of YA. My problem with Luc is he does feel like he's from a YA book. I think this is adult (I haven’t followed Schwab’s usage of V.E and Victoria), but he felt very…cliché to me. You know every line’s going to be a quote, you know he’ll want the main girl to be his lover and be an absolute control freak, you know there will be paragraphs detailing his looks and his darkness again and again and again. I don’t like those possessive guys with no redemption, sorry. I feel his character would have fit in the original plot I expected, but in this book which is apparently trying to take itself so seriously...Nope. And I know there’ll be a lot of people who’ll love him. He’s going to be a Book Boyfriend for many. But like I said, I thought he was a petty hoe and did nothing other than make the prose and scenery a bit cooler. Sorry.(Also, if you think any of your faves haven’t sold their soul, they have apparently.)It’s right I should finish this with the ending. Mmm…I don’t know. I thought it was quite sweet and satisfying, but Addie who is a very resilient and strong character didn’t get the ending I deserve. I can’t explain it without spoiling but with the theme of feminism and independence running so strong through the book, that’s how it finishes? I don’t want a sequel, but I just wished it had been a bit more clear in finishing Addie’s story. Anyway, I think a lot of people will love this book. Overall, the themes and writing completely captivated me. The characters, less so, but their stories were still very interesting to read about. I would tell readers, you won’t get to see any major historical events or wars, bar one or two that are very short. You won’t see Addie’s travels throughout the world. This book is much more focused on grief, loss, memory, loneliness and how two people help each other to get through their pain. Schwab has spent ten years on this book. Was it perfect? I don’t think so. Would I read it again? Definitely. But as a new favourite, or something ground breaking, this happens to be a miss for me.
3740910001	Favorites list.Read it.
3475283992	V.E. Schwab is known for her fantasy stories, a genre that I don’t routinely read . This novel is also described as romance and I don’t read much of that either. However, I just couldn’t ignore all of the rave reviews and I’m so glad that I took a chance on this because it’s so much more than I expected . It’s fantastical and fantastic, a beautifully written novel, a much needed escape, a portrayal of history, a thought provoking consideration of individual independence, self acceptance, things that make us human - our memories, being remembered, loving and being loved.Adeline LaRue is a young woman in the early 1700’s in France who wants the freedom to choose her own life. To obtain that she makes a bargain with the god of “dark”. We learn over the course of the novel at what cost. Addie is doomed to live forever, not to be remembered by anyone she comes in contact with, that is until she meets a young man three hundred years later in 2014 in New City. In alternating narratives moving between times and places from when she first makes a the bargain in France and across other cities in Europe - Florence, Venice , Paris , Berlin and back to New York City in between, her story spans three centuries. I’m not going to talk about the plot, or the man she meets or the dark god. You have to discover and experience this story yourself.I do have to mention Addie’s connection to pieces of art - the carved birds , sketches, descriptions of which are interspersed throughout, and then a photograph - oh my heart ! This is haunting and dark at times, but yet lovely and full of light at other times. I was eerily spooked. I was angry. I was confused. I was fascinated. I cried. I was surprised at how much I loved this story. Ultimately, I was moved. Addie LaRue , I’ll remember you.I received a copy of this book from Tor Books through Edelweiss.
6031755527	pre read.4/7/2024: hahahaha this book is so normal and happy and i totally didn’t stay up until 2 am to finish it hahahaha (someone help me)rtc <3꒰📷 ᝰ.ᐟ — this looks painful, i'm so excited (idk why i'm choosing to read this after the soul-crushing experience that was the dragon republic)
1524517841	Listen, this could have been a better book if it hadn’t been so overdone. I could see sparks of a great story in between the unnecessary lyrical prose and repetitiveness, and that’s where most of my disappointment lies. How can you mess up such a premise? It could have been an easy 5 stars but it wasn’t even close in the end. Victoria Schwab has been a favorite author of mine for three years now, and a lot of the books I’ve read by her have been just superb; but lately the books she puts out are not my taste anymore and I wish I could say why. I hope this trend dies. I can’t take another Schwab-induced heartbreak.This book in particular I have been anticipating for YEARS, I even preordered it ffs. Now I want my money back.Firstly, this book wasn’t marketed the right way. It has such a heavy tone that I wasn’t expecting at all, and from what they said I thought it leaned on the fantasy side but that’s a TOTAL LIE. Addie LaRue is literary/historical fiction with only a sprinkle of magic on the side. Secondly, it took me an entire month to get through. Though if it wasn’t for the audiobook it would have taken me three probably. Buying the hardcover wasn’t a smart idea in hindsight since the writing flowed better with the audiobook and it wasn’t as hard to follow. Doesn’t mean I didn’t think it was boring via audiobook. I wish I knew that before splurging. Things I kind of liked - Henry’s chapters on mental illness gave me all the feelings.- Luc was the only character with a bit of dimension. His mood swings, his personality and the way he acted made him stand out in comparison to the other characters. But my favorite thing, which I think Victoria absolutely nailed, is that his character had poetic nature vibes, he was a perfect personification of the dark and unpredictable side of nature. I could totally see him as a character in a dark academia novel.- Addie and Luc in the 1900s was the only part of the novel that had me on the edge of my seat. I loved the chemistry and good tension they finally had in that time period. Things I disliked - This book was a filler and that’s the best way I can describe it to you. Around 200 years of Addie’s life don’t matter at all. There was a lot this story could have told: Addie could have shown her adventures throughout history (since that’s why she made the pact with the devil in the first place?), places and events and people; instead it’s just her trying to find people to have sex with, make her into some art and borrow their houses. For 300 pages Addie meets people and spends time with them and then they forget her and she meets them again and they forget her again AND IT STARTS ALL OVER I CANT. - Addie as a main character was so bland and flavorless. I don’t know why the devil needed to put the curse on her because I for sure will forget her in no time at all. The people she meets and has affairs with during her long boring life were way more memorable than her. She was just basic, like a flat line, and I’m being kind.- I want to throw my copy out of the window for the writing style alone. A great deal of effort was put into writing this story but it was the kind of effort that surpasses a limit, goes full circle and surpasses it again. The result was a repetitive flowery mess. Poetic writing is cool and all, but not when it throws petals at your face. Excuse me but is Addie the only person with freckles on the entire world? Next time I hear “constellation”, “stars” and “freckles” in the same sentence I am going to scream. More things I was sick of hearing about: Henry’s curls and eyes, Luc’s eyes, how wolfish Luc was, “Addie, Addie, Addie”, “my Adeline”, AND YET (it was like every other sentence KILL ME NOW). Sorry but I didn’t need this shit.- There is exactly zero chemistry between Henry and Addie. They’re shoved together but they really have nothing in common. Their instalovey relationship also ruined Henry’s character for me. The more time he spends with Addie the more Henry loses all his appeal. His life becomes pleasing Addie and he turns as bland as Addie after that.- I went through this shitfest of this book to get to that unrealistic ending? It was insignificant plus excuse me but I have trouble believing Luc would be that stupid.I’m pretty sure I would have had way more to say if I had written this review right away after finishing the book but it is what it is. The more I think about this book the more I want to lower that rating lol.
7005421181	3.5 stars “Three words, large enough to tip the world. I remember you.” The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue follows Addie, a young woman in 1714 France, who makes a desperate deal to live forever—but with a twist: she’s cursed to be forgotten by everyone she meets. For nearly 300 years, she drifts through life, leaving no mark on the world and unable to form lasting connections. But everything changes when she meets a man in a bookstore who remembers her name. This sparks a new chapter in her long, lonely existence, as Addie navigates love, art, and the high cost of immortality. It's a poignant, magical tale about trying to make a mark on the world—and finding meaning even in the most isolating circumstances.➸ I’m honestly so conflicted about this book, and it’s not often that I feel this torn after finishing a novel. On one hand, the writing is absolutely beautiful—V.E. Schwab’s prose is mesmerising, making it impossible to put the book down. On the other hand, I didn’t have the emotional reaction I thought I would, and that’s what ultimately held me back from loving this book as much as many others did.Let’s start with what I loved, because there’s so much to appreciate. The writing is exceptional. V.E. Schwab crafts immersive, lyrical prose that hooks you right from the start. It's one of those books where you can feel the weight of the words, the beauty of the sentences, and the emotional depth she’s trying to convey. Honestly, the writing alone makes this book worth reading, and I completely understand why so many readers were moved by it. The way the story explores themes like time, memory, and the fleeting nature of life is hauntingly beautiful.The premise of Addie’s curse—living for centuries but being forgotten by everyone she meets is both heartbreaking and fascinating. It’s such a unique concept that it really drew me in, and I loved how the book delves into the consequences of such a fate. Addie’s journey through history, her attempts to leave a mark on the world, and the way she’s forced to navigate a life without being truly seen set up what should have been a deeply emotional experience.Now, onto the negatives of this book. Minor spoilers ahead!!Here’s the thing: I just couldn’t connect with Addie. I get that she’s meant to be a character who, by design, is forgettable—someone who blends into the background of her own life—but that made it hard for me to care about her. She often feels like a blank slate, and while I understand that this is intentional, it created an emotional distance between us. Without that connection, I couldn’t feel the weight of her struggles in the way I wanted to. The book tried to evoke sadness at certain points, but for some reason, it just didn’t resonate with me. I cry easily over books, but with this one? Not a single tear. And that’s especially surprising considering how many others have said they were moved to tears.Addie has lived for 300 years, but I couldn’t help wishing we saw more of her during pivotal historical moments or through different revolutions—anything that would demonstrate how her long life influenced the world around her. Instead, most of the story follows her wandering through cities, wallowing in self-pity, and stealing things. Whenever she meets someone, they’re inexplicably drawn to her—whether by sketching her, composing songs about her, or finding some profound inspiration in her presence. But WHY? She has seven freckles that supposedly look like stars, 🙄but beyond that, what makes her so extraordinary? The book keeps telling us she’s special, but it doesn’t show us why she has such an impact on everyone she meets. It became frustrating because I felt like I should understand this connection, but the story never fully explains it in a way that made sense to me.Then there’s the bigger issue I kept circling back to: how does Addie, who’s lived for 300 years, never do anything to make her time count? Yes, being forgotten by everyone would be devastating, but she still has centuries to herself. You’d expect someone with that much time to explore, grow, or at least find some personal fulfilment. Instead, Addie spends hundreds of years in Europe, during some of the most significant historical events, yet she remains confined to France. How do you live through so much history and not make a deliberate effort to experience it or leave any kind of mark? It feels like a huge missed opportunity for a character who’s meant to be extraordinary.Another issue I had was the book’s narrow focus on Europe when exploring different cultures and histories. While we get glimpses of European art, cities, and wars, I couldn’t help but feel like there was a missed chance to explore more diverse experiences. I’m not saying it’s racist, but given that Addie travels the world, it felt like a lost opportunity to tap into different cultures and viewpoints. It didn’t need to be a full-blown globe-trotting adventure, but I felt the story was too centred on Europe. It could have gained more depth by exploring how Addie’s immortality might have played out in other parts of the world. This is marketed as historical fiction, right? Yet, with such a limited geographical scope, it didn’t fully live up to that label.Honestly, though, I think the main issue is more of a me problem. My expectations were just too high, and I found myself getting caught up in these details that ultimately limited my enjoyment of the book. I kept wondering why Addie wasn’t part of more iconic historical moments or why the story didn’t delve deeper into different cultures and experiences. I couldn’t just go with the flow of the narrative because I kept thinking, “What about this?” or “Why didn’t she explore that more?” In the end, I think I over-analysed the story, which took me out of the emotional experience I was supposed to have. It’s frustrating, because I wanted to love this book, but I couldn’t fully immerse myself in it because I was too focused on the things I felt were missing.Then there’s Henry, the other main character, who, to me, felt more dynamic and compelling than Addie. His storyline turned out to be one of my favourite parts of the book, and I found his relationship with Addie interesting. However, I’m still not convinced they were truly in love. Their romance felt forced to me—like they were two people who needed each other at a particular point in time rather than having this deep, soul-shattering connection. Maybe this is just me, but I never really bought into the idea of them as a couple. They have a bond, for sure, but love? I wasn’t sold on it. If their relationship had been more platonic, I think it would have worked better for me. As a romance, though, I just couldn’t believe it.At the end of the day, the biggest issue for me was that I couldn’t empathise with Addie. If I’m not emotionally invested in the main character, it’s hard for me to fully enjoy the book. While I understand why so many people love this book and connect with its themes of love, loss, and identity, it didn’t quite hit the same for me.That said, there’s no denying that The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is a beautifully written and unique story, and I would still recommend it to others, especially for its stunning prose and the thought-provoking ideas it presents. I may not have had the emotional impact that others did, but I can still appreciate the beauty and depth of the writing. If you’re someone who enjoys lyrical, thought-provoking books with a touch of magical realism, this one might just be for you. I may not have had the best experience with my first V.E. Schwab book, but I’m still excited to read her other works.I really wanted to love this book as much as everyone else does, and while it didn’t completely win me over, I can still see why it’s such a beloved read. If you loved this book, I promise I did try to love it too.____________________________Heard this is heartbreaking so I will be reading🫣 heartbreaking WHERE??
3498072097	Additional note: I wouldn't go into this expecting a plot as windy as ADSOM... that doesn't mean it's not atmospherically wonderfulIf you heard that this book was about a girl falling in love with the devil... I suggest that you throw that out of your mind. Because (first) it's more complicated than that and (second) is it really about that?I'm telling you this now: this is romantic. But it is not exactly a love story. sad, sweet, heavy-hearted, emotional, and melancholic. I feel like a lifetime has passed since starting this book (in a good way)The reason I kind of lowered my rating was because I was left so unsatisfied by the ending. Like, I get it, it makes sense.... but I expected so much more?? Nevertheless, this is one of those books that I will be thinking about a lot long after I have read it. The journey is worth more than the ending.I will now direct you to my good friend Mary's playlist which upped my experience for this book by 10x (I suggest playing the song "I Love To Tell A Story" sometime in between chapters or after you've finished the book)tw// sexual assault, suicide (mentioned), drug addiction— overall thoughts: 4.5 —First thing’s first: yes, the pacing is definitely a slow burn but every once in a while I enjoy the book for it’s atmosphere and Schwab delivered. That isn’t to say that I disliked plot because the looming, aching sense of dread was so well written that I felt heavy the majority of the time that I was reading it.And then BAM!, plot twist drops and I suddenly feel awake (at least for one of the twists in the middle) "There is a defiance in being a dreamer.” this to me was about how the ideas and impressions we leave behind might not always be visible to us but they do leave a mark on people we meet over time. About freedom and the absence of it. And how we can inspire every person we come across even (or how strangers inspire us) even when we can't place a name or a face... Because we remember who they are, as a person.There are times when I’m in a lyrical writing kind of mood but there are times when I just can’t stand it. Which was the reason I had mixed feelings about this at first. V.E. Schwab had a different take/tone with this book compared to her other books which is to be expected since she said it herself.I felt the stretch of the years for Addie and just imagining everything that she was going through… I honestly don’t know if I would have lasted as long as she did. I felt addie’s own loneliness seep into me. And I get that if you aren’t the kind of reader who likes full on emotion-on-pages, this might just not be your style.…But if you are, good news, time to stock up on extra hearts because it will surely break a couple of times. "I am here with you, more often than you think." I was very pleasantly surprised at the fact that I enjoyed Addie's relationship with Luc a lot more than with Henry. Her and Henry are cuteness overload don't get me wrong... but I live for complicated relationships. I felt that we got that more with her interactions and feelings towards Luc over the years. I also wasn't as attached to Henry as I was to Luc (oops!) because there was more build up with Luc I feel. When Henry was introduced, I knew who his character would be right away and since he's so central to the plot... I thought I would have had more convulated feelings.(view spoiler)[And I don't know if the 7th person she loves (for her seven freckles as per Estelle) is Luc or herself or someone in the future (hide spoiler)] “Blink, and the years fall away like leaves.” The 2014 timeline felt so homey while the 1700s timeline felt like I was going to sob at every page.Only Schwab has the power to make me finish and love a fully lyrical style book because I am now realizing that I like the idea of a whimsical and lyrical plot, but I prefer the writing to be more straightforward.It takes some time to get into and since this is more contemporary/historical fiction/what ever genre this is than Schwab's other works, there is more emotional building than world building. I really loved the details that was in the art before every chapter, piecing them together was important to the story and I applaud the attention to detail.take your time reading this because you only get to read it for the first time once. I actually reread the first 30% of this book because I needed more time to process the emotion. “The evening is quite, and she is alone, but for once it is not the same as being lonely.” Once again, this is a heavy book to read, having to process and imagine what addie goes through, is a lot. V.E. Schwab portrays it really well and always leaves something to think about.Unlike ADSOM or Monsters of Verity, this isn’t an action packed kind of book and I would not approach this expecting the ADSOM kind of fantasy mindset.V.E. Schwab’s aesthetic bleeds into her writing style every time. Even though this books is loads different plot wise from the other books I’ve read of hers, it still has the classic Schwab in the way she humanizes the "monsters" of her stories.As a sucker for all themes astrological, I have once again sold my soul to the devil stranger worlds. “Time always ends a second before you're ready.” I really thought this would make me feel like I'm stuck in a dream state but I just feel sad haha, but we can't blame the book for that.I signed up for this heartache.↣ Save this book for when you are in the mood for atmosphere, slow burns, and something that feels like someone is telling you the story of their life around a fire place in an isolated countryside. ↢I’ve heard people being mad at this book because it doesn’t feature a person of color in Addie’s 300 years and I’m going to be honest with you… I’d rather read about a person of color from an author of color. And those who go as far as saying there’s no diversity in this book? Henry and Addie are lgbtq+ (which is actively pointed out) so I really don’t understand. It's just not super prominent and is treated like a normal thing... which I love to see because that's how I feel like it should be in books that don't focus on those topics. Some people will really look for ways just to hate on a popular book.It reminds me somewhat of The Afterlife of Holly Chase but make it a lot more emotional and whimsical. I would recommend TAoHC if you want something similar to this book but a little more light hearted and something to put you into a more Christmas-y mood.It was so hard to write this review because my emotions are swirling but I'm done now.*curtain close*« my emotional journey in status updates: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 »----------------Friends... I got to that part at the half way point and: *cries in french*It's been a while since I've felt this way over a plot twist and you know what... I'M LIVING FOR IT----------------PRE READ:I want to read about this french woman so bad already 🥺 to everyone who is reading this or has read this: know your privilegeto said french woman: don't worry i haven't forgotten about you, shipping just takes a while["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4019808910	3/5¿han escuchado el dicho "persona correcta, momento incorrecto"? me gusta pensar que algo así pasó con este libro. me imagino claramente amando la historia de addie, fascinada por su pasado y nerviosa por su futuro. es fácil pensar que este pudo haber sido uno de mis libros favoritos.en otro momento.cuando lo comencé estaba esperando algo totalmente distinto. no por el hype, de hecho, ya me había bajado bastante las expectativas, sino porque esperaba que el libro tuviera una dirección clara. un propósito. esperaba un "soy addie y estoy contando mi historia por x razón", no un "soy addie y esta es mi historia".el libro es la historia de su vida. punto. eso es todo. es una vida ridículamente interesante, pues addie es inmortal y ha vivido de todo... pero no vayan esperando más.personalmente no conecté con addie y, si bien me gustó ver su evolución a través de los años y conocer un poco más de ella, nunca sentí que la quería o que me importara mucho lo que le pasara. de hecho, perdón a todos los dioses de la lectura, me salté MUCHAS páginas. al final solo quería terminar este libro y pasar a otra historia más interesante. quizás lo relea en unos cuantos años para ver si cambio de opinión.
3228120318	Trapped The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is is not the typical book that I gravitate towards, but all the wonderful reviews made me take a chance.There are many elements that I enjoyed: the premise, Addie, and the chapters that take place in the past. My interest waned during the chapters that took place in the present. “Every day is amber, and she is the fly trapped inside.” This quote mirrors my experience reading this book. The chapters in the present became repetitive and cyclical with not much forward movement. Addie meets someone, establishes a connection, and then they soon forget her. This trope occurs over and over again, contributing to the plot feeling overly long and dormant.While most parts were too detailed, there were some others that I wanted more from, especially Addie’s interactions with Luc and her time in New Orleans, which was mentioned frequently early on as being a pivotal spot of recognition, but when finally revealed, it was short and rushed.I read this book when I wasn’t in a good headspace, and I was hoping it would transport me to another realm in which I could escape, but unfortunately, it didn’t work for me. I didn’t love The Invisible Life of Addie La Rue, but I appreciate that it took me out of my comfort zone.
6102779361	First 5 star read of 2025 🥳——I’ve wanted to read this for the longest time 🥰 this will be my first V.E. Schwab book too!
1986827848	“It is the kinder road, to lose yourself. Like Peter, in J .M. Barrie’s Peter Pan. There, at the end, when Peter sits on the rock, the memory of Wendy Darling sliding from his mind, and it is sad, of course, to forget. But it is a lonely thing, to be forgotten.” I have absolutely never made a secret of my love for Victoria Schwab and I think most people were well aware of the fact that THE INVISIBLE LIFE OF ADDIE LARUE was my most anticipated release of 2020.When I got an ARC of this in April, I could barely believe it. Getting to read mine and so many other’s most anticipated book of the year by my favourite author six months before its release is truly one of the most exciting things that has happened to me.And I am not even going to tease you. This book was absolutely everything. I loved it with every fibre of my being and it somehow managed to even exceed my expectations which had been quite high in the first place.But that is precisely the reason why it took me such a long time to write this review. How do you put the beauty of THE INVISIBLE LIFE OF ADDIE LARUE into words? How do you express how meaningful this book is and how much of a bright light it is and will be in so many people’s lives, especially in current times? Honestly.. I have no idea. “He is all restless energy, and urgent need, and there isn’t enough time, and he knows of course that there will never be. That time always ends a second before you’re ready. That life is the minutes you want minus one.” But I will try my hardest to write about my thoughts and feelings about this book to the best of my ability, knowing damn well that what I say could never live up to the masterpiece that this book is.The only way for you to really understand is to just read the book yourself.This is also why I am not going to give you much of a synopsis of this book. I honestly often struggle with giving a good synopsis in my reviews anyway but for Addie LaRue I genuinely just think that the best way to go into this book is knowing as little as possible.If you are intrigued by the thought of a story about a desperate girl who makes a pact with an evil god who ends up cursing her to be forgotten by everyone she meets, until 300 years into this curse, someone remembers her, you simply need to give this book a try. “Addie is so many things, thinks Henry. But she is not forgettable. How could anyone forget this girl, when she takes up so much space? She fills the room with stories, with laughter, with warmth and light.” Since Schwab has been my favourite author for a couple of years now, I have been following the journey of the creation of Addie LaRue and knew about the fact that this book has basically been in the making for 10 years. I know that this book means a lot to Schwab and I think that you could absolutely tell while reading this story. It really seemed like Schwab poured so many parts of herself into this story and I think that there is vulnerability to all of these characters because of that.It is interesting to me in general how story-wise, this book is very different from other books by Victoria Schwab, while in some ways being so very similar too. Because at their core, all her books are character driven. They are always about what it means to be human. But because this book is exclusively set in our world, this aspect shines even more than it usually does and the speculative element that exists really only helps to express precisely that.All the characters in this story are so very realistic, with so many layers to them. They read so much like actual people that I sometimes find myself surprised about the fact that they are not.Their motives and actions in these stories are so human and relatably written. I think that even if you are very different and cannot relate to the characters themselves, this story is written in a way that makes it so very easy to understand why these characters behave and act the way that they do. “They say people are like snowflakes, each one unique, but I think they’re more like skies. Some are cloudy, some are stormy, some are clear, but no two are ever quite the same.” Addie herself is truly one of the most intriguing characters ever written. She is one of those characters that you call strong because she is so flawed and vulnerable but she chooses who to be vulnerable with and it almost becomes a powerful tool for her throughout this story.The way she takes her story and her fate into her own hands, even though it seems like it is not hers at all, is so incredibly powerful. She uses her vulnerability, her anger, her sadness to her advantage and her becoming aware of these feelings is what makes her become a stronger person.This book was very cleverly crafted when it comes to going back and forth in time and it really helps Addie’s character development stand out so much more. It is fascinating to follow Addie on her journey to come to terms with the deal that she has made, to understand and know the consequences and what it means for how she lives her life and then to see her turn so many of the things that are seemingly obstacles into advantages for herself. “Seven freckles. One for every love she’d have, that’s what Estele had said, when the girl was still young. One for every life she’d lead. One for every god watching over her. Now, they mock her, those seven marks. Promises. Lies. She’s had no loves, she’s lived no lives, she’s met no gods, and now she is out of time.” And then there is Henry. Sweet, precious, "I need him protected at all costs"-Henry. I think that Schwab has a very special ability to write these wonderful, "cinnamon-roll" male characters and Henry is just another great example for that.But Henry isn’t just a sweet love interest. He isn’t just there as the guy who remembers Addie. He has his own fleshed out storyline and it truly is so, so heart-wrenching but beautifully written too. “It would be years before Henry learned to think of those dark times as storms, to believe that they would pass, if he could simply hold on long enough.” And these two lives and storylines come together so very well. The impact that Addie and Henry have on each other’s lives is absolutely beautiful to read about and their dynamic is fascinating. I think that the relationship between these two could’ve been weird because Henry is obviously someone who has very special place in Addie’s life, only just for the fact that he remembers her, but Schwab wrote the story in a way that made their dynamic incredibly well balanced.And on top of those amazing relationship dynamics, I loved the casual queerness of this book a lot. Both Addie and Henry mention very clear multiple gender attraction and that they’ve been with partners of different genders. While there are no labels used in this book, from the context it definitely reads like Henry is pansexual. We also have a whole bunch of side-characters who are queer and POC. “She leans back against him, as if he is the umbrella, and she the one in need of shelter. And Henry holds his breath, as if that will keep the sky aloft. As if that will keep the days from passing. As if that will keep it all from falling down.” And then there is the relationship that Addie has with Luc, the evil god that she made a deal with, and there is so very much to unpack in their dynamic. He still visits her regularly and in the beginning it is very clear that even though Addie wants to defy him, he is the one who leads the game, however much she thinks she has him figured out. But with time we see Addie starting to understand the rules and how to play Luc’s game, so that you get a feeling she starts to get under his skin too. “You have grown teeth, he said, and Addie will show him how sharp they have become.” The character of Luc is intriguing and mysterious and Schwab’s way of portraying him is incredibly clever. We see him from the perspective of Addie, and he can be oh-so charming, which makes it very easy to fall for him.But there is obviously a huge, unbalanced power dynamic between these two and while there are scenes between them that seem romantic, Schwab never lets us forget about who Luc is and the power he possesses, even when there are moments where Luc seems more human or it looks like Addie has the upper hand. At the end of the day, while this is a relationship with a god, it portrays the very human experience of an abusive relationship with those same manipulative cycles “She sees the truth, and he doesn’t know how, or why, only knows that he doesn’t want it to end. Because for the first time in months, in years, in his whole life, perhaps, Henry doesn’t feel cursed at all. For the first time, he feels seen.” All those amazing characters and relationships are supported by the breathtaking prose in this book. I truly think that this is one of the most beautifully written books that I have ever read and I highlighted so many paragraphs (as is also evident by the heavy use of quotes in this review) because I simply could not get enough of the words that Schwab used to weave this story together.This storyline in and of itself is so stunning as it is but there is something very special about the writing that really makes this book stand out so much more. To me, this is truly one of the most unique books out there. “And despite the doors and walls between them, she can feel the weight of what she left behind, and she wishes she could have stayed, wishes that when Henry had said Wait, she had said, Come with me, but she knows it is not fair to make him choose. He is full of roots, while she has only branches.” But genuinely, even after everything I just said, my review could never live up to the beauty, could never ever describe the masterpiece that is THE INSIVIBLE LIFE OF ADDIE LARUE. Not only is this easily one of my favourite books by Schwab, it is also my favourite book of the year and one of my favourite books of all time. And while I am biased towards lots of Schwab’s other works, I believe that, objectively, this is the best book that Schwab has written so far.Truly all that is left for me to say is thank you to Victoria Schwab, for once again providing me with yet another favourite book and a story that makes my life a better place. I am immensely grateful to the joy (and pain) her words have brought me and especially this book in these times. I will not stop thinking about this story for a long, long time and I am already looking forward to rereading this so many times in the years to come.I will always remember Addie.Instagram | Blog | Booktube Channel | TwitterI received an ARC through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review!
3591699715	¿Cómo comenzar cuando este libro ha sido un total y maravilloso descubrimiento? Está historia estuvo bastante tiempo guardada en mi biblioteca porque tenía miedo de que este libro me decepcionara; últimamente he estado leyendo a la autora y sus historias me habían sorprendido gratamente.Amé muchos de los pensamientos, diálogos y citas preciosas de los personajes, que te quedan grabadas, pero acá destaco una; la cual aún duele al releerla:“El arte tiene que ver con las ideas. Y las ideas son más indómitas que los recuerdos. Son como las malas hierbas, siempre encuentran la forma de desarrollarse.” Que decir de los personajes, ya que cualquier descripción siento que minimiza sus luces y sombras; Addie, un personaje único, lleno de matices, con personalidades que confluyen desde la testarudez e incomprensión, a sus ganas de vivir la vida, conocer el mundo, de vivir al límite en todas sus gamas, desde sufrir hasta enamorarse.Henry, también un personaje lleno de matices y misterios; sintiéndose siempre incomprendido e inferior a los demás, sin tener metas claras y siempre catalogado como: “demasiado emocional”, solo por el hecho de sentir y vivir sus emociones. Es el personaje que más me ha gustado, por la forma tan real de describirlo, logrando que el lector llegue a ser parte de su emocionalidad. Por último, pero no menos importante, esta Luc, personaje misterioso, quien vive o se deleita a partir de nuestros miedos e inseguridades; quien se obsesiona, pero no es capaz de amar (¿o quizás sí?).Y es así como surge la historia, entrelazando a estos tres personajes; contándonos la historia a través de varias épocas, intercalando la vida pasada y presente de nuestra protagonista; aunque la historia es básicamente de ella, la autora logra entregarnos la evolución de los tres personajes, tanto en sus acciones como en sus pensamientos.No pensé que me encontraría con un libro que me dejará tantos mensajes y esa sensación de vacío al terminarlo, pero este lo consiguió. Un libro 100% recomendado, con una historia muy bien desarrollada, en donde la autora logra entrelazar las ganas de vivir, de querer abarcar más versus las ganas de desaparecer para dejar de sufrir y dejar de no ser suficiente. Lo único negativo, es que a mí me gustan los finales cerrados y felices, y este no es así.
3473474622	Not surprising butthat was heartbreakingly beautiful🥺How dare you, Schwab . . . how DARE you😭With all the mixed reviews on this book, I admit that I was very scared to read this and not love it.BUT I needn't have worried, for this book—this unforgettable experience reading through Addie's journey—was EVERYTHING. ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧“A dreamer,” scorns her mother.“A dreamer,” mourns her father.“A dreamer,” warns Estele.Still, it does not seem such a bad word.✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ It's 1714, and 23-year old Adeline Larue is about to be married against her will because it's a must for woman like her during that time. Addie longs for freedom and being the dreamer that she is, shackled to someone is basically the end of her life. So what does one do when at the edge of desperation?They pray to the gods and hope for an answer.But Addie hadn't heeded the warnings of praying to the gods after dark, so instead of meeting the gods she's heard about her whole life, she encounters the darkness itself. ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧“Ah,” says the darkness, reading her silence. “You do not know.” Again, the green eyes shift, darken. “You ask for time without limit. You want freedom without rule. You want to be untethered. You want to live exactly as you please.”✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ And so, Addie makes a deal with the devil to be free and immortal, but little does she know that this deal comes with a curse—a curse of being forgotten by everyone she meets. A curse to never be remembered.A curse so very, very lonely.Fast-forward to 2014, and for the first time in 300 years, Addie finally meets someone who remembers . Henry Strauss—nothing seems to be very special about him. A bookseller that he is to us bookworms that's of course everything. But somehow and someway, he hasn't forgotten Addie upon meeting her for the first time. He remembers . ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧"I remember you."✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ And so goes the story. The past and the present. The mystery behind Henry remembering. The meaning behind true loneliness. The wanting and need we humans crave . What lies in the future? This unforgettable story explores this and so much more . this would be the perfect book to dissect during English class, instead of those dusty, old classics ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧“Being forgotten, she thinks, is a bit like going mad. You begin to wonder what is real, if you are real. After all, how can a thing be real if it cannot be remembered?”✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ Addie Larue—the seven-freckled a constant reminder French dreamer. Oh, Addie.🥺 Watching Addie live through centuries of being invisible to everyone else was so heart-wrenching. Many times throughout the novel, I was very close to sobbing my eyes out because of everything she had to deal with all alone. I thought I knew what loneliness was, but no —what Addie had to deal with was true loneliness. I can't possibly imagine living 300 years of being forgotten by everyone you met, not even being able to leave any sort of trace that you were there, and especially not even able to say/hear your name from others except of course, the god who cursed you. V.E. Schwab managed to make me once again fall in love with her main heroine and I am not surprised at all.😭💖 ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧“It is just a storm, he tells himself, but he is tired of looking for shelter. It is just a storm, but there is always another waiting in its wake.”✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ God, I was so expecting Henry to be a super boring love interest but hell no I completely was wrong. Sure the insta-love between Addie and him was pretty annoying and no way was he more interesting than Luc, but his character in this story . . . just wow. Schwab has a way in making the words she writes hold such a deep meaning and with Henry . . . I felt it all. Everyone has their ups and downs in life, and I love how Schwab created a character that others could relate to a lot. The feeling that you're drowning, that there's not enough time, that you're not enough for others. Aghhhh I love this author so much.😭🥺 (To everyone out there, YOU are ALWAYS ENOUGH. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise.😤) ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧“Because time is cruel to all, and crueler still to artists. Because visions weakens, and voices wither, and talent fades.... Because happiness is brief, and history is lasting, and in the end... everyone wants to be remembered.”✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ Finally, the darkness itself—Luc. He was such an intriguing character and always loved the scenes where he'd make an appearance. I do wish there was more of him, but that's only just a personal preference. The darkness always calls to me, and here I've fallen in love once again. There's a lot more than what meets the eye, but then again . . . that's with everyone.👀 I shouldn't love him this much but asdfghjkl I can't help myself.🙃Who doesn't love an evil devil? sane peopleAnd that ending—ohmygod I still can't get over it. I both love AND hate it with a passion. VICTORIA IS A GENIUS I don't think anyone could've guessed that ending but to anyone who did . . . you're a freaking genius because never in a million years could I have predicted that. I do kind of wish it wasn't that open ended, especially since this is a standalone, but still . . . that was so incredibly heartbreaking. In both a good way and bad way.🥺 It's just too much. *sobs*Words will never be enough to describe the beauty of The Invisible Life of Addie Larue. So I say, if you haven't alreadyGo read this. I will remember you, Addie. (4.5⭐)✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧ ✧Buddy read with Ashi <3
3878949261	“What is a person, if not the marks they leave behind?”4.5 ⭐Nashita likes this book*le gasp*Of course, I do. I love a good romance book. And this was just perfect. I felt it was actually more than a romance, it had a lot of meanings which was beautiful<33Read Bhavya's Review of this book!Plot“And no matter how desperate or dire, never pray to the godsthat answer after dark.”Tis the year 1714. Longing for freedom from her future which she will be trapped, Addie makes a deal. A deal with the darkness.In exchange for her soul, she is given freedom. But everything has a price when you deal with the darkness. Addie learns this when she realizes that she is cursed. Cursed to be forgotten.For 300 years, Addie has lived alone, travelling the world and exploring new things but unable to leave her mark anywhere. Forgotten, she has watched people she love, fall in love with others.But things change one day when someone remembers her...."I remember you.Three hundred years.Three hundred years, and no one has said those words, no one has ever,ever remembered."Everything is about to changee.Writing“Because time is cruel to all, and crueler still to artists. Because visions weakens, and voices wither, and talent fades.... Because happiness is brief, and history is lasting, and in the end... everyone wants to be remembered”Im a huge fan of VE Schwab's writng. Vicious and Vengeful are some of my fav books. She has unique style which I adore. This book was no exception!"Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives--or to find strength in a very long one.”If you talk abt books, then I'm in!WorldThis is actually kinda like contemporary. But there is a small magic system which I had problems with(that is why I reduced 0.5 stars!)I don't get the concept of Old gods and New gods. We don't see much of them and I would have liked to see more It would have the made the story even better!Addie is french right? I don't see anything in her character that shows she is french...Being alive for 300 years, She has travelled only 3 continents -Europe, North America and one more (which I can't remember at the moment forgive me )I would have loved to see the other countries and places from her viewpoints instead of just 3 continents. Watching her travel would have made this book even better!!RomanceHenry is a great guy. So is Luc (in his own creepy way)But I ship Henry and Addie. I think he's good for her. After being alone for 300 years, she has finally found someone. And he works at a bookstore!!!!The ending kinda made me sad but I wasn't devastated. I expected that so that eased the blow!CharactersAddie“But a life without art, without wonder, without beautiful things—she would go mad. She has gone mad.” She is an extremely interesting character. I loved her as the MC!She has a lot of good traits...she craves for freedom and doesn't accept things as they are. She doesn't compromise her happiness and keeps on fighting throughout the book which I admired.We see her moping sometimes in the book abt her state, which was a tad irritatingBut...she has lived for 300 years. Who can blame her?Henry “It is just a storm, he tells himself, but he is tired of looking for shelter. It is just a storm, but there is always another waiting in its wake.”HE works at a freaking book store! (view spoiler)[ And he wrote a freaking book😪 (hide spoiler)]I actually kinda like his character. But I don't 'love' him. He was interesting to read abt and I love the way he supports Addie.I ship them both.He's OkayLuc Okay spoiler time!(view spoiler)["Do not mistake this kindness. I simply want to be the one who breaks you.”The darkness is evil. So is Luc. Because they are the same person. But I really liked him. even more than Henry! I dont think of him as the villain cause he had to do what he did. We can't blame him for it, can we?I really enjoyed reading abt him! I like his relationship with Addie but I don't ship them 🤷‍♀️ (hide spoiler)]Final thoughts I really enjoyed this book and I hope to re-read this one day. I hope we get like a short novella or something because the ending made me sad :(MerciI shall now go study frenchMy rating system:5⭐ - I loved it soo much! New favorite4⭐ - It was really good! But something was missing3⭐ - It was nice..but had more potential2⭐ - I did not like it at all!... It could have been soo much better1⭐ - Nope. Just No. I hate it["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3435573686	Oh, this was wonderful and magical in the richest sense of the word.
6610941703	4.5!! the writting was like 500 pages of poetry 🤍
3662204667	yup... still gets me everytime...usually i start the book with depression then when i finish the book i feel better. yesterday i started this book feeling good and i ended with depression.there must be a second book to this right? a sequel where she undoes all the heartbreak she caused me in this book. there must. a novella at least. a short story? some fanfiction?i got shivers and i cried and my heart glowed then i cried some more. its late here right now and i will be going to bed when my ribs cracked open and my heart bleeding onto my sheets.if you need me, ive gone into a deep depressive spiral that cannot be cured until there is a next book. goodnight, world. i remember you, addie larue. **WAILING**
3707342177	The invisible life of Addie Larue la poo “There is a rhythm to moving through the world alone..You discover what you can and cannot live without, the simple necessities and small joys that define a life. Not food, not shelter, not the basic things a body needs—those are, for her, a luxury—but the things that keep you sane. That bring you joy. That make life bearable.” “Books, she has found, are a way to live a thousand lives--or to find strength in a very long one.” Hi remember me !? it is Krizzie... the person who really thought she would hate addie la poo, yep thats me and plottwisttt. i didnt hate this book wow. I feel like i really see both sides of this book. And I really get the like and dislike part of the people who love this and the people who dont like this at all and in this revieuw i will go in at both those opinions and dicuss my feelings towards them. In the end this book ended up exploring the struggels of humanity and questions that where asked about life. What it is too truly life , when you truly life , what leaving a mark has too do with living. do you have too leave a mark on this earth so that you have truly lived? , its about running of of time and the feeling of that especially and about accepting yourself and your life. Its about the selfishness in love and in life. All these topics really connected with me as i have many of these thoughts and fears as well.Summary – The Invisible life of addie Larue poo is a book about a girl named Addie who lives in the year 1714. A girl who is stuck at a little village and feels like she is alive but not free , not living life but just existing and not seeing everything of life there is too see and experience. One day on the day she should have been getting married too someone she doesn’t love she prays too the darkness and the darkness answers her prayer. The prayer too escape and too have the chance too live and experience things. But this story shows that nothing you wish for comes for free so addie lives forever too experience everything but no one remembers her. Addie lives 300 years and everyone forgets her while she is desperately trying too leave a mark on the world because what is a person without leaving a mark , is a person then nothing. Have you lived when you didn’t leave a mark to be remembered at the world. This story really dives into that question and too the struggels of a human life like this one and the feeling like you are running out of the time. The whole book is about wanting too life but what it means too truly life. The story follows Addie trough all her years at the same time as her current life in New York where she meets Henry , a person who suffers of depression and remembers her. It shows their story as they meet , the story of addie and her struggels in life throughout her 300 years of living and her relationship that comes with that with the darkness she made the deal with. It also dives into what love is and the conclusion that love can be off selfish reasons like not too be alone and just having someone. BAD STUFF AKA THE FREAKING FRECKLES - First the bad point that annoyed the fuck out of me that I need too get of my crisis Chrissie chest : THE FUCKING FRECKELS and sometimes repetitive writing. Like some of the writing is pretty and I loved it but some was for me just over the top and way too much. Like addie has 7 freckles and they look like stars like what the hell. How can freckles look like stars, does she has star stamps on her cheeks. And why do these freaking freckles need too be mentioned almost every chapter like it is a personality. Like it is just too much. And just stupid. Like go away with those freckles aka the stars. Freckles are freckles and they aren’t special so many people have them and how the hell can they look like stars. So yeah some of the writing is just really repetitive like this which I did mind and some of the descriptions where just stupid and weird and too much for me. Like AASH my brain exploded from weirdness.so thanks addie la poo for having these amazing star looking freckles !! i appricate the mentions every damn page.this book is definitely a really slow book. Its more about all these questions about life and humanity and not about action. We don’t have any action scenes or really fantasy scenes this is just more about the subjects that play a part in this book , the ones I mentioned before and the personal journey of addie and her story. Like if you want a book with action then this one isn’t for you. I knew before going in that this wouldn’t have action and wouldn’t be a story but more of a story of showing a story. But i think that is really what Ve Schwab wanted with this story , too explore these struggels and questions asked about life and leaving marks and love being selfish sometimes and not an action paced story about Addie living trough a lot of action paced moments and Historical events. Like I totally get that people say that its boring and could have been somuch better if addie was in those moments and had action and adventure and that would indeed be super cool but the meaning of this book isn’t that , like ve schwab wanted too show the story of these questions and live and not all the adventures. And I feel like with this story that did fit for me and I still wanted too continue too read more and explore this theme of the book more even tho it doesn’t have any action. repeitiveness of the book and my thoughts on it - It has a lot of repetitiveness which I have seen many people say and that’s totally true sometimes that did annoy me but I thinks that also what Schwab wanted too do with this story too show the pain of the life of addie and the questions being handled in this book too be shown over and over again. Like for me I totally get why people would found it repetitive because it is but I did think it fitted with this story and gave it more meaning. Because addie her life was like this and was repetitive. Character talk – Addie is definitely selfish but I like her as a character , following her story. Of course she is selfish because of her situation not being able too truly life. And aren’t we all selfish ? her journey is a really great one that really touched me. Expect the freckles lol. Henry also has his struggels that are important for this book and struggels with himself. They are both struggling and wondering what living really is and when a life is good enough and I liked how their stories connected on the same topic of wondering and exploring the themes in this book. And luc of course. Also a confused soul. Thoughts about the romance – Okay so I feel like this romance isn’t the Feyre/Rhysand etc. romance that needs too be shipped and is like a OTP. Its more a way of showing the selfishness love can have and it explores that theme. (view spoiler)[Like Addie and Henry don’t fall in love because of their personalities and I see people hating that and I get that but I think that schwab wanted too show more the selfishness love can have. Henry loves Addie because of her being the only one able too truly see him and addie loves him for the same thing , because he sees her and remembers her. Like they take away the others their loneliness because of their deals and addie also says that might be why they love eachother. Also Luc and Addie feel affection towards eachother because they are both alone and for the same reasons as henry and addie because they are the only company they have and when you are lonely you are desperate for someone too see and love you and I feel like that is what schwab has done with this romance. And I do think that totally fits this story. (hide spoiler)] Ending thoughts - I love the ending , its an open ending but it fitss the story. (view spoiler)[Like if henry and addie would just live happy ever after and everything would be solved that would not fit this story and would be not realistic. Addie made her deal and that doesn’t go away. I felt like this open ending is perfect for this book. Henry that has ended up writing this book I like and Addie is now remembered. And henry also learned the importance of being yourself and that being perfect doesn’t fix things. It’s the way you feel about (hide spoiler)] end conclusion , do i reccomend this one ? - So this just hit me and I feel like if you like these topics and don’t mind a slower book then this book is something for you too try out , I do think if you don’t relate that this is all too much and boring and not good repetitive for you so then I wouldn’t recommend this as it isn’t an adventure fantasy book so don’t think it is because it isnt. Overall I enjoyed this book much more then I thought I would * Sofia and Lucy are Dancing right now * and really felt the story. The only thing I do hate about it is the stupid freckles and the writing being too much sometimes. I do feel like this book could have been even better when there where also mentions of people off colour for example , other people who got forgotten for example liek a black woman who doesnt get remembered in history. and i feel like there could have been more talk and connection between Addie and historical important situations. That could have made this a 5 star book. if she explored more countries also. This book is a book you just have too give a shot and it can either work for you or it doesn’t and I really get both of these points of vieuws. Its definitly a hit or mis. for me i did enjoy the book and the meaning behind it. but you do have too appricate and enjoy a slow read. special mentions too my crew Too my Salty Sophia who is now very proud of me for liking this book and Lucy. oh and Blumble please dont come for me too kill me after liking this book. and thanks too the buddy read on the midnight readers , i loved discussing this one["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3924210797	[Master of Ceremonies:] ALLOW ME TO INTRODUCE THE CHARACTERS IN THIS FAUSTIAN MELODRAMA:ADELINE LARUE: High spirited, attractive country girl - unhappy with her stiflingly small lot in life. Due to the effects of the DARK CURSE, this image of the obscured features of Addie LaRue is the best we can do. You will have to take our word for it, Addie has a timeless, beautiful face with seven distinctive, star shaped freckles across her nose....LUC: Good-looking Bad Boy with a big EDGE: also a God/Prince of Darkness (Yummy!)HENRY STRAUSS: Decent, handsome, lovable human: recently heartbroken, wants to be "enough" for everyone - also desperately unhappy with his directionless lifeAct 1:[Addie] “I do not want to belong to anyone but myself. I want to be free. Free to live, and to find my own way, to love or to be alone, but at least it is my choice, and I am so tired of not having choices, so scared of the years rushing past beneath my feet. I do not want to die as I’ve lived, which is no life at all....I want a chance to live. I want to be free........ I want more time.”[LUC] “How long?.. Ah… You ask for time without limit. You want freedom without rule. You want to be untethered. You want to live exactly as you please.......I am not some genie, bound to your whim.... Nor am I some petty forest spirit, content with granting favors for mortal trinkets. I am stronger than your god and older than your devil. I am the darkness between stars, and the roots beneath the earth. I am promise, and potential, and when it comes to playing games, I divine the rules, I set the pieces and I choose when to play....The deals I make, I make for souls...Go home Adeline. Back to your small life."[ADELINE] "... You want an ending... Then take my life when I am done with it. You can have my soul when I don't want it anymore."And now the gloves are off, and the fighting commences, fair and foul! These two able adversaries have met each other's match - in more ways than one!Alas, these "triangle" tropes inevitably create factions of followers: Team Luc or Team Henry?.... I say, why can't a girl have her cake and eat it too?!!!Addie could have them BOTH! Henry was a perfect dreamboat, but Henry is a mortal, with time issues of his own, and Addie hasn't been mortal for a very long time. Luc, with all of his fiery, arrogant swagger, will be around until Addie voluntarily cashes in her chips and hands her soul over to him. (I really enjoyed the chemistry and the back and forth banter between those two.)And all that pining that Addie often wouldn't admit to throughout the story. Of course she has passionate feelings for Luc - and always will! "This is not love" - Addie kept reminding herself..... PLEASE!!!This story lagged a fair bit for me in the middle - all the jumping timelines had me groaning and a few of those scenes with the past lovers felt a bit repetitive, but thankfully the pace picked up towards the end. I truly enjoyed this author's exquisite choice of words. (There were also times, however, when I wished that there had been a bit more editing out of some of those precious but wordy gems. Save them for another book - or a sequel?!?!....! )And AAAHHHH!!!! That was a beautiful, tearjerker of an ending, but, take heart! I think that Addie enjoys sparring with Luc and that, once again, she will forget her smoldering anger against him, just as she did in New Orleans. These are two very passionate immortals who love a good storm! I'll be thinking of them every time a thunder and lightening storm rolls through...Oh, and after you've read this cautionary tale, it would be prudent to heed the wise counsel from Estele (the "witch"): Never pray to the gods that answer after dark.
3374367004	I read and enjoyed my advance review copy ages ago, and I'm so glad it's finally here for everyone to read! The story begins in France, 1714: a girl is running for her life. She's been warned to never pray to the gods that answer after dark, but she's desperate to escape an unwanted marriage—and so makes a deal with the devil. In doing so, she gains immortality—but only slowly does she realize that she's given up the possibility that anyone will remember her, ever. Not her legacy, her existence, or even her name. Over the next 300 years, she learns to work within the confines of her curse, moving through a world where she cannot leave a mark. Until one day, in a Manhattan bookstore (it's called The Last Word, and boasts a bookstore cat named Book), she encounters a beat-up copy of Homer's Odyssey and a man who offers her the kind of hope she hasn’t felt for 300 years. An imaginative, absorbing, genre-busting read sure to land on my personal best-of-the-year list.
3288152628	Review also published on blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend...Oh, Addie Larue, How I Adore You! Making a deal with the devil (aka “The Darkness”) seems impossible and yet that is exactly what Adeline Larue does. The year is 1714. The place is France. From the moment the deal is struck, Adeline Larue’s life is changed forever. For Addie. Never again, will she. Never again will Addie Larue be remembered. Never again will Addie Larue own anything. Never again will Addie Larue have a home.She does however learn to survive and even thrive. Days and nights are replayed with Addie deftly changing the outcome.Of course ‘The Darkness’ reappears intermittently wanting repayment. Haunting Addie, yet, she does not relent. Three hundred years later in the year 2014, it happens. Someone she meets remembers her. In this moment, astounded and astonished, Addie’s life begins anew. A novel that takes us all through Europe (including Berlin, Paris, Florence) to New Orleans, New York, and Chicago, detailing the rich history of the times “The Invisible Life of Addie Larue” is a masterpiece. Dark, atmospheric, evocative, beautiful.A character-driven novel with heart - it completely stole mine. Addie is a woman who is desperate to make an impact, to find love and fulfillment, and to belong. In the end, I think that’s something we all want, with Addie however, that desperation is affecting, poignant, and wholly powerful.Upon being remembered, there is amazement, warmth, and utter joy. If you’re like me, it is felt deep in the recesses of your soul, all because of the man who remembers her. Swept up in the friendship, the romance, the sheer happiness of it. “The Invisible Life of Addie Larue” by V.E. Schwab is a wonderful mix of fiction, historical fiction, magical realism, and romance all intertwined in the most fantastical of ways. It will most definitely appear on my Goodreads best-of list for 2020.It is unlike any novel I have ever read and it one I will never forget. Addie Larue, I assure you, I will remember you.Published on Goodreads on 12.20.20.
3576000036	A timeless story told in lyrical prose.So I've had hits and misses with V.E. Schwab. I was very ambivalent about the Shades of Magic series, to the point where it put me off reading more from her for years because I didn't get the hype. When I finally continued, I discovered that I love the Villains duology. So when I picked up Addie Larue, it really could have gone either way.In this book, we follow Addie, who at 23 years old, made a deal with the devil to live forever. However, as all things of this nature do, this came with a cost, and the price Addie had to pay is that she can never make a mark on the world during her long life and everyone she meets is destined to forget her.This all changes when Addie meets Henry, a fellow lost soul who works at a bookstore, and who is the only person in 300 years to remember Addie exists after she has left the room.This is a story that spoke to my soul, The writing is more beautiful than I've experienced from Schwab so far. It is atmospheric, heavy on the metaphor and drenched in melodrama. Romance is also a heavy central theme throughout, although it is not what we typically think of when we hear a book is "romance". This is a very slow, beautifully written, character driven story underpinned with loneliness and longing. The romance is not a passionate, whirlwind, steamy affair, but more about two people who have been looking for something for a very long time, and finally find it in each other (in more ways than one).This book is not for everyone, it is slow, heavy on description and is overall very sad throughout.However, if you're a fan of a tragic love story, atmospheric storytelling and poetical writing, then this may be a hit with you too. Oh and I cried 3 times at the end and that never happens to me.
3589611219	This book is just gorgeous; whenever I think Schwab can't possibly get any better, she continues to raise the bar. “It is sad, of course, to forget.But it is a lonely thing, to be forgotten.To remember when no one else does.” There is a fervent vibrance to be found within each of V.E. Schwab’s stories. The Invisible life of Addie LaRue was no different. I hoped to remember every line I took in, and savoured every page. ~★~ What is this book about? ~★~ Time. Time is what she asks.It is the year 1714, France, and Addie LaRue is desperate for freedom. The bride of a wedding she wants no part in, she stumbles into the woods and prays to whoever will answer.A devil hears her cries, and settles on a deal. Addie will live for as long as she pleases, though when she is done with life, her soul is owed. Devils do not play fair, though: Addie is forgotten by everyone she meets. It is lonely to leave no mark upon the world, until three hundred years later, when a boy in a bookshop remembers her name.~★~Hoping to be remembered, yet cursed to be forgotten. This story encompasses both the joys of life and the unavoidable fear of losing time. Life is short; The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is a reminder that love makes that time feel boundless. “Blink, and the years fall away like leaves.” Beauty in every word. Allure in every page. Addie was a stunning narrator with a past that unravelled handsomely. Getting to know her through the light and dark moments of her past led me down a path of inevitable attachment. I couldn’t not be pulled in by the culmination of this story, it encompassed too many aspects of existence that we all ponder frequently.What mark have I left upon the world, if any? This is Addie’s worry, and many of ours, too. I found myself basking in the simple thought that I am here and I am alive while reading this book. Schwab is an unparalleled storyteller, without a doubt.Speaking about writing style seems meagre in comparison to my previous praise. Nearly every book this woman has written is a favourite of mine. The progression from Schwab’s debut novel to the tale of Addie LaRue is a nearly tangible thing.If it wasn’t already clear, The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue is something you won’t regret reading. Touching and meaningful, this is a subtle celebration of life. Completely breathtaking from front to back.
