215998911	** spoiler alert ** Upon sighting this book in a soon-to-be-closed Borders store, I was intrigued. The blurb sounded interesting and the first couple of pages seemed competently written. Despite the huge discount, I hesitated, and instead checked the book out from the library.And am I ever glad that I didn't actually buy it.The book started out promising. Protagonist Diana Bishop, distinguished history scholar and professor (just like the author! uh oh...), repressed witch, tea aficionado, rower and yoga enthusiast, accidentally calls forth a magical text that every witch, vampire, and daemon in the world seems to want. Unfortunately, Diana has a major chip on her shoulder about her own magic. She sends the text back to the stacks where once again, no one can find it. This doesn't sit well with with her fellow magical beings, and they begin a 24/7 stalkfest in hopes that she will retrieve the manuscript again. Early adopter stalker, vampire Matthew Clairmont, proves particularly troublesome. Diana is extremely wary of Matthew, and rightfully so--he follows her everywhere and even breaks into her apartment and watches her sleep.Then they decide to team up and soon fall in love, at which point all semblance of plot disappears and the novel turns into an endless tangent about Diana's newly developed Stockholm Syndrome and how she must be protected from all the (other) dangerous stalkers. At first, I thought that this book was going to be an intelligent Twilight for grown-ups--the main character wasn't helpless, thought for herself, didn't immediately adore her bloodsucking, murderous stalker or find his abusive behavior endearing, and didn't seem interested in losing her entire identity to the first good-looking guy who wanted to eat her. A rebuttal of Twilight, almost. But no. Despite Diana's increasing Mary Sue-ishness as she develops every witch ability ever known, she must constantly be rescued and protected by Edward, er, Matthew. Matthew, meanwhile, is a complete jackass. Trotting out the obnoxious "pack mentality" trope so often used in "paranormal romance" (a genre that really, really needs to be marked better so that those of us looking for "urban fantasy" won't be blindsided every damn time), Matthew is neatly absolved from all responsibility for his sexist insistence that Diana obey him as her husband and for his volatile, potentially murderous temper if and when she doesn't comply. The past seemed gray and cold without Matthew. And the future promised to be much more interesting with him in it. No matter how brief our courtship, I certainly felt bound to him. And, given vampires' pack behavior, it wasn't going to be possible to swap obedience for something more progressive, whether he called me "wife" or not.Apparently, this is just fine and dandy with Diana despite her previous proclamations of female independence and autonomy. And oh yeah, Matthew unilaterally married her without even notifying her, and that was fine too. I have a theory that a lot of the current, noxious crop of vampire-themed "romance" is a symptom of a cultural backlash against feminism. Once you strip away the paranormal aspect of novels like "A Discovery of Witches" and its stunted and even more vile cousin "Twilight", you are left with stories about abusive, manipulative men who systematically isolate and dominate the female objects of their obsession. The women's identities are subsumed into the men's as the women's lives come to revolve completely around the men, while the men suffer no such mutilation of self--they simply gain an empty, mindlessly adoring, woman-shaped appendage, which is all that is left of the women by the end of the stories. Without the trappings of vampire and/or werewolf hierarchy (always patriarchal, of course), what you're left with is an authorial "boys will be boys!" with an underlying message that submission to the (patriarchal) hierarchy is necessary both to achieve happiness and to avoid violence at the hands of the vampires/werewolves/abusive boyfriends/husbands who just can't help it. Even putting aside the issue of the horrible, horrible underlying message in this book, it still has nothing much to offer. Pages and pages are devoted to describing stilted, "romantic" conversations that fall flat, how Diana exercises, what she eats, what wine they drink, how long she sleeps, what's in her tea, how great their yoga class was, bla bla bla ad infinitum. A little detail here and there is flavor, too much is encyclopedic and boring. Most of the action takes place off-screen while Diana sleeps, or waits, or sleeps and waits. Diana goes from being subject to object almost the very moment that she decides that Matthew, despite being a deadly creature who has been stalking her, might not be so bad after all, and takes little action for the rest of the book except to travel back and forth from Matthew's vampire mother's castle (yes, really) in France (which she comes to think of as her home alarmingly quickly) and her aunt's magical house in England America (New England?), which apparently isn't special enough for her anymore. A whole lot of nothing happens, then Diana gets kidnapped and tortured but is of course rescued by Matthew. A whole lot more nothing happens. Then almost at the end, some new characters show up who seem like they should have been more important to the story but are introduced way too late. Among them is Sophie, a pregnant daemon who was born from witches and is pregnant with a witch baby. Sophie is pregnant, and she will be having a baby, which the author reminds the reader of in nearly every sentence involving Sophie, who is pregnant. Watch her rub her belly with pregnant serenity (or is it smugness? I can't tell)! She is pregnant! Then Diana uses her ungodly overpowered witchy time travel magic to whisk herself and Matthew into the past, because witches used to be more powerful and she needs more powerful witches than currently exist anywhere in the world to teach her reach the full potential of the Mary Sue. In fairness, I must admit that I loved the aunts' magical house, which was almost its own character. Unfortunately, the house was the only part of the book that I didn't feel was 1) endless, unnecessary detail or 2) lifted almost wholesale out of other works.While the author is clearly a competent writer, her storytelling needs a lot of polishing. Honest, heavy editing could possibly have worked wonders on this book; instead, it got hype and marketing. To me, it makes the book all the more disappointing to see that there was potential, that it wasn't a disaster from the start. It almost felt like the book was cut open and artificially inflated with the dull, problematic romance, which it may well have been. I didn't know this book was supposed to be part of a trilogy, since it is only marked as such on the bottom of the front inside jacket cover underneath library tape. I can't imagine wanting to read any further, though. In short: yawn and barf. Now please excuse me while I go write a boring ode to stalkers and Stockholm Syndrome thinly disguised as a vampire novel thinly disguised as a book about witches. If you need me, you can find me laughing all the way to the bank.
167323929	okay, so the good things: I liked the world/mythology/etc, and was amused by the Anne Rice reference! And I also liked the subtle pro-gay marriage message. It could have actually been a lot of fun except for the romance part, which went like this: (SPOILERS!)Diana: I am exceptionally good at being a historian of science, and I even have a job at Yale! I am also a witch, but I don't use my powers. Much.Gosh this mysterious manuscript sure is mysterious!Matthew: I AM TALL. I WENT THROUGH YOUR PAPERS AND THEN CAME TO YOUR HOUSE AND WATCHED YOU SLEEP.ALSO, I'M AN ANCIENT VAMPIRE.Diana: Um, okay?Matthew: SAY WOULD YOU LIKE TO DO SOME VAMPIRE YOGA WITH ME?THAT IS NOT A EUPHEMISM, BY THE WAY.Diana: I guess so. I could do that after I go rowing and then run several miles.Matthew: I HAVE A LOT OF USEFUL INFORMATION THAT I'M NOT GOING TO TELL YOU. ALSO, YOU SMELL AMAZING. I CAN BARELY CONTROL MYSELF WHEN YOU'RE AROUND.Diana: Oh well, I'm sure it's fine.Matthew: I FORBID YOU TO DO VARIOUS THINGS.ALSO, YOUR LIFE IS IN DANGER SO WE'RE GOING TO VISIT MY MOM. IN FRANCE. DID I MENTION I'M FRENCH?Diana: Hey, for serious you can't just tell me what to do all the time.Matthew: I AM COLDLY FURIOUS.ALSO, IT MAKES ME SAD WHEN YOU DISOBEY ME. AND I HATE BEING SAD.YOU KNOW WHAT, I WAS SAD ONCE A THOUSAND YEARS AGO AND THEN I KILLED A BUNCH OF PEOPLE. AND THEN IT HAPPENED THIS OTHER TIME AND I KILLED MY LOVER, JUST SO YOU KNOW.Diana: Oh, right! Silly me. So wilful. Anyway, should we have sex now?Matthew: WHAT? WHY WOULD WE DO THAT?Matthew: OH BY THE WAY THIS IS MY HOUSEKEEPER. SHE IS ALSO AN ANCIENT VAMPIRE, BUT FOR SOME REASON I GUESS SHE LIKES KEEPING HOUSE.Housekeeper: Oh hi, here is some herbal tea! Make sure to drink it every day, and DON'T MAKE ANY MISTAKES WHEN YOU BREW IT. Um, because it might taste bad, not that it's having any effect on you without your knowledge. OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.Diana: Gosh, thanks! Everyone is so nice here. Matthew: YOUR EYES ARE LIKE STARLIGHT NOWDiana: I love you!Matthew: HANG ON, I NEED TO GO BACK TO ENGLAND FOR SOMETHING.Matthew: I AM BACK FROM ENGLAND! I LOVE YOU!Diana: I feel our souls are as one! These few short weeks have shown me that you are my one true love!Matthew: OH HEY DID I MENTION, YOU KNOW THAT TIME I KISSED YOU IN FRONT OF MY MOM? WELL THAT MEANS WE'RE MARRIED.Diana: Actually you did not mention that. But does this mean we can have sex?Matthew: HAHAHAHA DON'T BE SILLY! Matthew: OH AND ANOTHER THING, THERE IS THIS COMPACT OR SOMETHING THAT SAYS WITCHES AND VAMPIRES CANNOT MARRY! SO THERE ARE A BUNCH MORE PEOPLE TRYING TO KILL US!Diana: WhatMatthew: OH YEAH TOTALLY! BUT DON'T WORRY BECAUSE IT TURNS OUT YOU ARE THE MOST MAGICAL OF ALL THE WITCHES!Diana: Yeah except my powers are all repressed, anyway I'm just going to go outside for a second and I'm sure I won't get kidnapped and tortured or anything.Matthew: I WILL KILL EVERYONE AND SUMMON THE SECRET BROTHERHOOD OF ANCIENT SECRET KNIGHTS!!Matthew's mom and housekeeper: Wow, calm down.Matthew: OKAY I WILL JUST KILL THIS ONE LADY THEN.Diana: Yay, I learned to fly! I <3 you Matthew!! I am so lucky to be your bride! Let's go visit my aunt in America. Did I tell you I'm from America?Anyway, let's have some sex! Woo!Matthew: I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.Aunt: Why are you drinking contraceptive tea?Diana: I have no idea. Not because of all the sex I'm having, that's for sure.Matthew: WHAT?? I WILL KILL YOU, HOUSEKEEPER!Diana: Never mind, we have to go to the past and do something about that mysterious manuscript. Did I mention I loooove you!!!?!?!?Matthew: SPEAKING OF WHICH, CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE WAS TOTALLY IN LOVE WITH ME! WE SHOULD GO SAY HI.Diana: I see. So is that why we can't have sex?Matthew: WHAT? NO! IT'S BECAUSE OF THE PURITY AND SPECIALNESS!Matthew: ALSO, HAVE I MENTIONED HOW YOU HAVE ALLLLL OF THE WITCH POWERS? YOU ARE THE BEST WITCH OF ALL TIME!Diana: I love you!THE END
134840594	2.5 starsHmmm. At first, I really thought this was going to be at least a 4 star book. It was interesting and full of detail! Then suddenly, it wasn't. Wasn't interesting, that is. Oh, it was still full of detail, don't worry. Details about how they appreciatively sniffed wine.Details about different kinds of tea.Details about the layouts of old buildings.Details about rugs and furniture.And just when I started to think I couldn't take it anymore...MORE WINE AND TEA!Yes, yes! I get it! She likes tea. He likes wine.After 400 pages I don't give a shit what it smelled like. Enough already!*deep breath*Toward the end, the story picked up a bit and started moving forward again. But it was too little, too late. Wait. Let me rephrase that, it was too much, too late. Suddenly there were huge info dumps, which would have been great had they been spaced out over the entire book. Everything that should have been happening/discovered/talked about in the middle of the book (because we were busy drinking all the goddamn tea) was crunched into the last part of the story.It looks like this is a trilogy, but I seriously doubt I'm going to attempt to read any more of these. It looks like the author did a lot of research to bring this book to life, but it just wasn't for me.I'd recommend this to someone who enjoys slow-paced books with a lot of attention to detail.
1879898157	Sorry Bronze Horseman, A Discovery of Witches has taken the #2 spot for my favorite book <3
3641527341	4.5 so fun!
234530861	Well, this was the dumbest shit I’ve read in quite a while. I picked it up thinking it would be some good escapist fantasy book with some romance thrown in but it turned out to be Twilight meets Instagram. We had some vampires, demons, and witches but they never did anything remotely interesting. It was all about yoga, fitness routines, early morning runs, elaborate and photogenic meals, wine drunk in old chateaus, cosy interiors and, I swear to you, there was a scene where the heroine drew her knees up and held a mug of hot beverage with both hands. This is something you only ever do if are posing for Instagram or pretending you’re in the Marks&Spencer Christmas ad. There were 600 pages of this nonsense and whatever action or danger did occur it was swiftly dealt within 5 pages so we could go back to characters having some idiotic conversations where they constantly quibbled over nothing in particular. The narrative switches between the first person from the heroine’s point of view and the omniscient third person to explain all the things the heroine couldn’t know about. The whole thing is very lazily executed and there is no change in the voice at all, so I constantly had to keep checking which narrative it is when I thought the heroine fainted but somehow she is still talking.When our witch heroine met the vampire hero she still had brains and I was hoping she would put an end to his brand of romance which included gaslighting the heroine, controlling her every move, ordering her about, infantilising her and all the other techniques overbearing assholes like him like to employ. It would be like Twilight The Remix. Sadly it was just Twilight The Extended Cut. Diana quickly lost all the brains that she had and also seemingly some of her size. When we meet her she is a tall and athletic woman, but as soon as she falls in love with Matthew she becomes pocket-sized. He constantly scoops her up and carries her about (in his pocket I assume). Every now and then she tries rebel against his constant ordering her about but it’s always presented like a silly childish tantrum and we are to assume she is being foolish for protesting such thoughtful commands. Due to his vampire abilities Matthew knows everything about her – when she is sleepy, tired, hungry, when she is on her period. And he orders her to sleep, eat etc. Because in her twenty odd years she clearly hasn’t mastered dealing with basic body functions. That fucking guy even buys her birth control pills and orders her to take them, even tells her what day she should take them (he does know those things better, of course). And check this, he also refuses to have sex with her for no fucking reason whatsoever. Here, honey , take loads of hormones with a bunch of side effects, because who knows how powerful my seed is, maybe I can impregnate you just by thinking about it. What in the puritanical hell is that? And that is AFTER they were married, which brings me to the clusterfuck that was their ‘wedding’ (?). What happened was he went on some trip, came back, kissed her and told her he loved her. She is like ‘cool beans’. And then he says: “oh, by the way, in the vampire culture that thing means we are now married and mated for life”. Is she mad as fuck that dude tricked her into marrying him, literally married her without even asking if this is something she might be interested in? No, of course not, that’s not weird and creepy at all. Supa romantic. That halfwit of a heroine embraces it and goes on to call all the people he has turned into vampires over the years, some of whom are a few centuries old, “OUR children”. She literally met that dude a few weeks before and now she is calling his three-hundred-year-old “son” – MY son. Sure, go hard or go home. Also, another thing we are supposed to find romantic is that whole alpha-maleness and ‘pack animal behaviour’. All the men never stop acting idiotically protective over “their women” and growl at each other for no logical reason. It is supposed to show us they are all alpha males fighting for dominance. Wow. How exciting. You’re basically dating a German shepherd. We are told that Matthew the vampire is endlessly brilliant and eternally patient, but he acts neither. He withholds information from the heroine for no reason other than to be controlling, he acts rashly, he can barely control his anger fits and basically has an emotional complexity of a fighting dog. Whatta man, whatta man, whatta man. Oh, and did I mention all the characters smell of flowers, spices and minerals that no mammal has any business smelling of? And why is a man smelling of cloves and cinnamon sexy? Are we supposed to shag him or sprinkle him over a latte?AND ALSO. Tiny bit of advice from me for Diana – if someone gives you a bunch of ingredients and very strict instructions how to make them into some tea, and tells you to make it exactly like that every day, and drink it at the same time every day, then maybe don’t it because it’s hella fishy. Or at least, I don’t know, ask why, you absolute nincompoop!I am not reading another instalment of this bloated abomination. I heard the characters are going back in time. They should go back to the Middle Ages where they belong and then die from the plague.
148122064	ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Dr. Diana Bishop, descendant of the famous Bridget Bishop of Salem, Massachusetts, turned her back on her natural powers after her parents were killed when she was a child. Instead, she relied on her brain power, went to Oxford and Yale, and became a well-known researcher in the field of history of science. Now she’s back at Oxford, spending the year studying old alchemical texts archived at the Bodleian Library. But when she calls the book known as Ashmole 782 from the stacks, she can feel its power and she can see hidden writing moving on its pages. It frightens her a bit and she notices that soon after returning it to the stacks, she’s attracted the attention of many creatures — vampires, daemons, and other witches — who are suddenly hanging around the Bodleian. One vampire in particular, Matthew Clairmont, an attractive professor of biochemistry and neuroscience, just won’t leave her alone. What is so special about Ashmole 782 and why are all these creatures hoping she’ll call it back?After reading the blurbs about A Discovery of Witches, this was a book I was eagerly waiting for. I love academic settings (especially Oxford), old libraries, and the blend of history and science. And I did enjoy much of A Discovery of Witches for this reason. Diana Bishop is an urban fantasy heroine that I can relate to. She spends her time in libraries instead of tattoo parlors; she prepares lectures and writes letters of recommendation instead of training with weapons and kicking peoples’ butts. I understood her goals and interests and the way that her focus on academic pursuits makes her slightly awkward and absent-minded elsewhere. I was also much intrigued by Matthew Clairmont’s genetic research into the evolution of witches, vampires, and daemons and how this related to Diana’s research in alchemy.Thus, A Discovery of Witches had a lot of potential for me, but there were three problems that sapped my enjoyment:The first is that the book is simply way too long. With nearly 600 pages to work with, Deborah Harkness should have been able to get these interesting ideas farther off the ground. I was frustrated that, by the end, it had become clear that A Discovery of Witches is the first novel in a series. In this first installment, Harkness carefully develops the characters and sets up the romance. There is a lot of sitting in the library, hanging around various houses, talking, drinking tea, and eating. The story covers only about a month of time and I think I witnessed nearly everything Diana ate and drank during that month.Secondly — and this is a common problem for me in urban fantasies — I couldn’t appreciate the romance which dominated the plot. Vampires are just not sexy to me and I had a hard time believing that an overprotective, angry, admittedly murderous vampire would be attractive to an independently-minded academic. Not to mention that his body is cold and his heart beats only rarely. He spends a lot of time growling, bossing her around, speaking roughly, giving everyone dark looks, and displaying mate-guarding behaviors — steering her around by her elbow and with his hand at the small of her back, hovering over her, blocking her path, pushing her up against barriers, “scooping” her up, tossing her on horses, grabbing her by the chin and twisting her neck, telling her she’ll catch cold if she sits on the ground (a guy who sequences DNA thinks that sitting on the ground will make her sick?). He even binds her with an oath without her permission. I find this kind of behavior in a courting male insufferable. This is a common problem for me, and one of the reasons I don’t read much vampire lit, but I wasn’t expecting to encounter this issue in such magnitude in a book about a famous researcher from Oxford and Yale. I know she’s scared of what’s going on in her life, but where is this woman’s self-respect? In some ways, A Discovery of Witches felt like Twilight for middle-aged academics. The most unbelievable part of the entire romance, though is that [removed spoiler — Read it here.]Thirdly, there are a lot of minor plot issues that just don’t fit into a well-developed fantasy, especially once we leave the academic atmosphere of Oxford and the book starts to feel like Harry Potter. Magic in this world seems arbitrary. We’re told that each power has a genetic marker, which is cool, but its practice is not sufficiently explained. It’s the snap-your-fingers-to-clean-the-dishes, close-your-eyes-and-concentrate-to-fly type. Sparks fly from Diana’s fingers, she cries rivers of tears, witchfire bursts from her outstretched arm. She is suddenly accumulating a host of new skills that make her the most powerful witch alive, but she doesn’t respond with the awe we’d expect. When she finds out that she can time-travel, she practically shrugs it off (and the physics of time-travel don’t even try to make sense).I truly enjoyed the first part of A Discovery of Witches — the relatable heroine, the university setting, the focus on the history of science. But once the romance got going and we left Oxford, A Discovery of Witches lost its charm. I’m still curious about the blend of genetics, evolution, and alchemy, but the long sick romance dominated this intriguing mystery and the plot could not hold up against it. I may take a look at the sequel, though, just because I really want to know what’s inside Ashmole 782.ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.
231810580	my gosh, i really wanted to like this one. it looks good. it is nice and big and so i imagined getting lost with it for days. the subject matter is enticing. even the cover looks appealing - elegant and mysterious and sorta bold. but unfortunately this book is just a big, perpetually flaccid penis. it looks good, like it could be a fun time, but nothing is happening, it's limp, it's useless.hmmm, where do i even start? this was an experience where a lot of bored sighs found life. i got about halfway through and just gave up, because:- this is a thin little Urban Fantasy & Romance that has been tricked up to be a kind of literary romantic horror novel. i shouldn't have believed the hype, its comparisons to other recent "literary horror" novels like The Passage or Zone One. it is nothing like those two. now i don't mind little Urban Fantasy & Romance novels. but please, promotional team for Discovery, don't front. don't make this novel out to be what it clearly is not.- the repetitive scenes were abysmally boring in their, well, repetitiveness. how many fuckin times do i have to read about our tedious heroine going to the library and finding that a bunch of preternaturals are stalking her? apparently a dozen or so times. i kid you not, the sheer number of these scenes were ridiculous, they verged on being a kind of Comedy of the Absurd. Harkness, were you being paid by the word or something? - the trials and tribulations of our heroine and her paramour were a snorefest. oh poor angsty wittle witch doesn't want to be a witch, she just wants to be a regular human! boo hoo hoo! oh poor angsty wittle vampire has such mixed feelings about having mixed feelings for the wittle witch. boo hoo hoo! what hard lives these preternaturals have! i'm not sure i've seen witches & vampires portrayed in such a boring fasion... i got more thrills from the silly Beautiful Darkness series. c'mon Harkness, where's the nuance? where's the adventure? for chrissakes, even the romance sucked. BORED NOW.i tried to like this one, i really tried. i tried looking at it from different angles, i tried to come at it at different times - perhaps it was my mood, right? i focused on the fact that this was such a nice, big novel... surely it must eventually get good, if i was patient and understanding. surely it would harden into something that could give me at least a little bit of excitment. but nope, it remained flaccid and i just had to give up on it. there are a lot of other big books out there for me to enjoy.
2541294344	"It begins with absence and desire.It begins with blood and fear.It begins with a discovery of witches." This trilogy is like no other paranormal book I’ve ever read. The world is huge and the author not only takes us around the world but also tells us about its history through the Book of Life. The protagonist of the story has distanced herself from her magic and any other supernatural concept in the world after she lost her parents as a child. The protagonist’s lack of knowledge allows the reader to learn everything about this mystical world gradually and I loved that facts about the world weren’t just dropped here and there randomly in an attempt to make the reader understand whats going on.The protagonist, Diana Bishop, is one of the Bishop witches, a very well known family of witches. But ever since she was a child Diana could never cast a proper spell and her powers never seemed to have truly manifested. Since her parents’ death Diana has made it a point to live a human life with the barest hint of magic in it. She is a history professor, a scholar, who has won quite a few awards, and is now dabbling in alchemy.One day, Diana Bishop calls a magic book, Ashmole 782, from the Bodleian library, not knowing its significance. In a futile attempt to avoid the magical world she sends the book back, but she doesn’t realise that the second the book opened for her there was no turning back. The book, Ashmole 782, also known as the Book of Origins is coveted by all 3 magical and supernatural species. Witches, vampires, and daemons have all lived lives separate from each other unbeknownst to humans who live in blissful ignorance. Whenever two or more of their kind are around humans they tend to draw attention but human disbelief covers it up. Once the book of life was called witches, vampires, and daemons are following Diana to figure out how she called on a book no one has seen for centuries and each of them want to make it their own with a desperate need to make it to the top of the food chain. And as always we have the cliche paranormal forbidden romance, but I enjoyed it all the same. I feel like at this point there is so much literature out in the world that no matter what you write it will end up being at least slightly cliche in reference to something else. Anyways, in this book Diana meets Matthew de Clairmont one of the most powerful vampires alive (or should I say dead) after she finds Ashmole 782. Matthew, like the others, wants to know the contents of the book of life, but not to destroy another species but to find out how to protect them all from extinction as they seem to be getting weaker by every generation. Putting aside the, again cliche, vampire possessiveness, Matthew is a pretty great guy, easy on the eyes, and his character mixes with diana’s very well.I’m writing this review after reading all three books, don’t worry there are no spoilers, and can confidently say that every single character introduced throughout the trilogy plays off of the other characters amazingly and they each have a role of their own. Even the humans introduced in this books and later play a great role in the overall plot. I loved that even though it is a paranormal series the author ignore the human, and technological, aspect of the world and incorporated it in the perfect way.The de Clermont family hierarchy s fascinating and just gets more interesting and complex through the series. The characteristics of vampire and their habits is explained well and slightly hilarious as the protagonist knows about as much as we do. There is one sentence in the third book that really cracked me up. If you don’t want to know I’m putting it under spoilers below this sentence.(view spoiler)[ I’m a vampire.” Matthew stepped forward, joining Chris under the projector’s light. “And before you ask, I can go outside during the day and my hair won’t catch fire in the sunlight. I’m Catholic and have a crucifix. When I sleep, which is not often, I prefer a bed to a coffin. If you try to stake me, the wood will likely splinter before it enters my skin.” He bared his teeth. “No fangs either. And one last thing: I do not, nor have I ever, sparkled.” Matthew’s face darkened to emphasize the point (hide spoiler)]I well aware that I’m reviewing the first book but I must say the third book is my favorite among the three but I figured I might as well provide some incentive to start and/or end this series if you’re not one of the hundred thousand people who have read it.The first book acts a great introduction to a huge plot behind the scenes and is concluded fabulously in the third book. The characters each have unique personalities and draw out different sides in each other. The story is put down very well and I had a great time making my way through it despite all the new releases vying for my attention.For any of you haven’t read this book yet, vampires don’t sparkle, witches don’t boil babies, and daemons are not demons or the daemons from Phillip Pullman’s His dark Materials. If you’re planning on reading this book, I hope you have a great time.
1124236326	Re-Read 12/15/17:Beyond what I said in my original review, I really enjoyed all the interwoven devices that carry all the way through all three books. I knew I'd enjoy a re-read even as I finished the third book since there are so many great historical details as well as more developed characters, later on, but I think I may have enjoyed this novel more this time around purely for its own sake.Just knowing what happens at the end and where Diana winds up is good enough to chortle over, all by itself. :) The next is pure historical fiction, of course. :) What a delight!Original Review:What a surprising find. Sure, I expected a decent urban fantasy, but I hadn't expected a tome redolent of history, alchemy, and even Templar conspiracies. In retrospect, I wish that all urban fantasy novels had more history and alchemy and Templar conspiracies. The past is rich and full of just as much intrigue as anything we've got today, after all, and denying the fact won't make so many modern novels better. It's true that I expected a novel with a scholarly feel, and it's equally true that I expected a witch with equal parts frailty and overpowered magic, but unlike a number of completely unfair reviews, I didn't have a problem with characters that displayed actual human complexities. The overpowered magic was nothing of the sort. I saw a novel-long setup and decent foreshadowing.The time in the novel is ripe for a big change, and I love the story's fearlessness. I'm fully invested in each and every character that has shown up and feel how alive they are. The novel deserves high praise much thought. At this point, I'm pretty sure we're seeing the (re)birth of a goddess, and the ride is as important as the destination. The writing is so finely honed that I have no problems at all with the introduction of new power and new twists because even at the very beginning there were finely woven threads that reinforced all revelations.I can't wait to read the next two.
1017470700	This could have been a great book. The series has a lot going for it. The author has achieved a perfect level of magic combined with mystery and academia. Sounds strange doesn’t it? But this is very much in a similar vein to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. The characters explore libraries (yay libraries!) to gain knowledge about the supernatural. The protagonist comes across a very unusual book, a book of magic. The tension is here very early on, the narrative drive is here very on, though it all goes downhill as the story progresses. She drew me with the enchanting mysteries of magic and books: “The leather-bound volume was nothing remarkable. To an ordinary historian, it would have looked no different from hundreds of other manuscripts in Oxford’s Bodleian Library, ancient and worn. But I knew there was something odd about it from the moment I collected it.”So we have a solid opening, and a solid plot, but the author goes and fucks it all up with a terrible romance plot and her poorly written characters. The protagonist Diana Bishop is a witch coming out of the magic closet; she also likes to go rowing, which the author tells us at every opportunity. She happens to be a Dr in science history. So, theoretically speaking, she’s a smart woman. She quickly falls in love with a mystery man she meets at the library; he is shrouded in darkness and secrecy. It’s quite a romantic encounter; he appears to be something much more than an ordinary guy. She becomes enamoured with him. Matthew de Clairmont is an ancient vampire who is also a genetic researcher (amongst other things.) We hear lots about his prowess as a vampire, but never actually see it. I don’t really know what he’s capable if. When there was a chance for him to use his abilities, and demonstrate the strength of vampires in this world, he stands back and does nothing. He becomes a piece of furniture and just watches the action. Diana doesn’t seem to mind though; she sticks with this gaping idiot throughout. She’s not even bothered that he watched her sleep like some creepy sex pest. We later learn that he practices yoga, which just ruins the entire vampire image. How can this guy ever be considered threatening after that? He loses all of the seductive powers of vampirism and enters the realms of weird. There are some good things about this book. The idea of magic behind a world of fact and academic is great. The protagonist goes on to discover what she is capable of in a tale of magic oozing with possibilities. But, these possibilities are never really fulfilled. It’s all about the romance and her dependency on Matthew. She follows him like a little lost dog, for some reason. I wanted to read about a woman who learns about herself and the world through her own willpower not because of the help of an apparently powerful vampire nerd. This book is quite unique, I’ll give it that. The narrative is not told in entirely simple prose; there are suggestions of academic language, which, I suppose, reflect the nature of investigating the mystery book found at the beginning. The main success of this book was its ability to keep me reading. Obviously, I had a few problems with it, but I still wanted to know the answers to the mysteries Harkness posed. It kept me in suspense by not revealing what the characters are completely capable of e.g Diana’s powers. I know there is going to be much, much, more. The room for character development and new plots is huge. The next book could go anywhere. And because of that I read it with the hope that the characters would improve and that the mysteries would remain. Without the libraries, mystery and books, this book would have been a complete disaster rather than a partial one.
313929705	UPDATE AUGUST 2016:This was my 4th time reading this book and I enjoyed it more than ever! No doubts about this being my most favorite paranormal story of all times.My Diana and Matthew: “It begins with absence and desire.It begins with blood and fear.It begins with a discovery of witches." I am not exaggerating when I say that this is the most fascinating paranormal story I have ever read in my life. Discovery of Witches is splendid combination of history, science, romance and action. This book is full of knowledge and interesting facts wrapped up in beautiful paranormal story.Discovery of Witches is kind of book that will make you fly over the pages, eager to find out what will happen next and than make you feel like re-reading it all over again right after you finish. “Will this ever stop?” I asked quietly.“This feeling when I’m with you—as if I’m fully alive for the first time.” Discovery of Witches is story about independant witch Diana and enigmatic vampire Matthew. And I am happy to say that heroine in this novel is no damsell in distress complaining all the time. On the contrary, she is more than able to take care of herself. And I absolutely loved it.A must-read for all lovers of smart and paranormal!MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG Reading Is My Breathing
2508066410	3.5 starsThis was 5 stars at first but the world expanded so quickly and there was kinda an instalove thing that I wasn't a fan of so idk. I love Matthew and Diana but I wish there was more slow burn and forbidden romance and by the end i was almost cringing at their dialogue lol. i already bought books two and three though so i hope it adds more angst rather than sappy stuff
801215186	The following picture shows how I feel about A Discovery of Witches as a whole:(Link: http://www.dannyschulz.com/2011/05/26...)I want to like this book, the concepts and the magic system are bold, refreshing and awesome, but sadly awesome concepts cannot save a book from:(1) Mary Sue main characters. And I'm talking about a Mary Sue who can easily put Bella Swan from Twilight into total shame...Meet Diana Bishop, a history professor and leading expert of ancient texts, she was born to a pair of powerful witches, both of her late parents were from respectful witch families with long history tagging behind. At young age, she showed promises to become as powerful a witch as her late mother, and she was also much smarter than the other kids her age. All of these details are told to us from a first person's POV, at the first 10 pages of the book. The Mary Sue alarm bells were ringing nonstop when I read those 10 pages.And Matthew, the love interest and Diana's boyfriend/husband in the later parts of the book, is an ageless vampire. Not only he's drop dead gorgeous, he is rich, he is ages older than the heroine, he is also well learned and irresistible to all the ladies...does he sound just like someone else we'd already met before? Oh yes...Edward Cullen. How could I forget... (2) Dull storytelling. And the book is overly long.I read the first 200 pages of the book, and believe me, nothing happens.I'm serious, instead of actual plot development , the book is filled with descriptions of every meal Diana had, every trip to the library, her excise routines, her dinner date with the vampire, her yoga classes. Thing got so bad to a point I wrote the following complaint in my reading progress: "if the author talks once more time about what the MC has for dinner and if she wrote one more of the MC's trip to the fucking library (and I swear I love libraries), I will throw the book away!Talking about yoga, in this book vampires, witches and demons are doing yoga in the same workshop. Can thing get even more boring than this!?Call me narrow-minded, but I just can't live with this vampires+witches+demons yoga scene haunting my mind, especially when this yoga workshop is supposed to be such a great spiritual experience and a gesture of peace among supernatural creatures. *groans*(3) Vampires, witches and demons are sworn enemies, just because of reasons. You know, reasons.Why those supernatural creatures hate each other so much? We never know, no background story whatsoever. But seriously, if they didn't happen to hate each other so much, there would be no 'forbidden' romance between Diana the witch and Matthew the vampire. Plain and simple.(4) Badly written 'forbidden' romance between a vampire and a witch, a romance which is as good and 'romantic' as watching two pieces of wood banging against each other. If Matthew liked Diana to Roman Goddess Diana just one more time, I swear I'm going to lose it.Not to mention, a vampire bossing a woman around in the name of 'I'm protecting you', grasping her and refusing to let go even after she had already told him to stop, is not romantic.(5) The villains being flat and they have no personality and motive other than being evil...for reasons. You know, reasons.(6) The 'good guys' are good due to reasons. You know, reasons!Sometime, the good guys also do a lot of dull things. For more than a few times, I just can't believe Matthew, a 1000+ years old vampire would handle the crisis the way he did.(7) Had I mentioned not only the heroine is a massive Mary Sue, she is also an ignorant, arrogant cow; and she's also the perfect example of Too Stupid To Live?I told you Diana is a powerful witch, right? I'm sure you won't ever forget this fact because the author had been very in-your-face about Diana being the most powerful witch alive throughout the book. So what had Diana done with her power? Had she learnt to control her magic and tried to do good with it?Nap. Instead she sat on her butt and refused to learn how to use her magic, even when her auntie was more than willing to teach her. All because Diana's parents died in a failed magical ritual.I'm sorry? Isn't it more a reason to learn how to keep your magic under control?Plus, Diana also chose to be ignorant about the history of her own kind and the world of supernatural creatures. She chose not to listen when her auntie tried to teach her. I'm sorry? But what kind of idiot would do this when she lived in a world where vampires, witches and demons are hiding among human society in an uneasy peace? Why is such ignorance ever be allowed among supernatural creatures? I can't think of anything more dangerous than an untrained but powerful witch walking around when she is fully capable of unconsciously attracting lighting and burning a hole on the carpet. What would happen if her magic went out of control? People may get hurt, you know. But in this book, no one seems to care.(8) Had I mentioned not only the vampires don't have fangs, they have hardly killed anyone *on screen*?Don't even get me started with the vampires in this book, I think Mathew's mother is the only respectable vampire in the story, mostly because she actually hunts to get herself fed and when she lost her husband, she went after her husband's killers instead of crying and moaning like a weakling.(9) The ending is one of the worst endings I've read in the recent years. (view spoiler)[They travel back in time so Diana can learn how to be a powerful witch by learning from all those great witches in the past!!!! (hide spoiler)] What kind of ending is that!?(10) The plot is messy, and is weighted down by far too many randomly thrown in backstories.I admit it's nice for us to finally say goodbye to Diana's trips to the library and her enjoyment with eating and drinking, by the second part of the book. However, in replace of Diana's daily activities, we are treated with other characters' seemingly endless backstories. You see? They are immortals right? So of course each of them has a life story to share! (11) Many of my GR friends are aware of my undying hatred toward the godawful Tiger's Saga (by Collen Houck), and I can tell you guys A Discovery of Witches is just as awful as Tiger's Saga, but in a totally different way.This book is filled with endless references on history, myth and culture, mixing with pseudo-science and pseudo-history. All of these are fine with me, if only the story itself isn't so mind-breakingly boring and the main characters aren't so dull and the romance isn't so annoying.(12) Some people say this book is 'Twilight for adults'Well...in a sense, this book is Twilight for adults, if adults enjoyed stupid romances and lusting after picture-perfect male vampires.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2415411670	Hardly anything happened, the spice was PG, there was a threat of a Renesmee, and yet I STILL somehow really liked it.HOW IS THAT POSSIBLE?HOW DID YOU DO THAT, DEBORAH?????Here’s a brilliantly written (👀) synopsis:Historian witch Diana checks out a book from the library. Tea time. She runs into a British vampire scientist who she initially thought was creeping on her. He wasn’t. It’s love. Tea time. Also, that book was important. All of the magical people in the world want it, but she’s the only one who can check it out, for whatever reason. Tea time.And that’s it. That’s all that happens in 600+ pages.Time for likes and dislikes. This will not have spoilers, so it is safe to proceed.LIKES:1. Diana is NOT Bella Swan.Matthew tries bossing her around and hiding her away, but she shuts that down real quick.2. Strong female characters all over the place.No damsels in distress present, thank you. 3. The audiobook.Normally audiobooks put me right to sleep, but this one did the complete opposite. It helped me get through the more dull parts (mentioned below) and kept me from butchering names. 💯4. The world building.It’s an interesting world filled with humans, demons, vampires, and witches. It’s like HP though, so the humans are completely clueless. The reason as to why they keep humans in the dark is legit (I thought, anyway).5. That I still somehow cared after hundreds of pages where Diana just ate breakfast and drank tea.WHY DID I CARE? WHY DO I STILL CARE? I DON’T KNOW. It almost reminded me of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. That MC spent the first several hundred pages reading newspapers and eating sandwiches and yet I still canceled all of my plans and locked myself in my college dorm room in order to finish it. DISLIKES:1. The constant history lessons.OKAY WE GET IT, DIANA. YOU ARE A HISTORIAN. IF I WANTED TO LEARN ABOUT THE CRUSADES, I WOULD LOOK AT WIKIPEDIA. (I could never be a Ravenclaw.)2. Matthew and his family speak French all the time, but NO ONE EVER TRANSLATES.DO I LOOK LIKE I EVEN HAVE A GRASP ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE? 3. No spice.ALL I WANTED WAS A DESCRIPTIVE MAKE OUT SCENE (at the very least). I thought that was mandatory in vampire books, so wtf.4. Any time Diana entered a library, it is a 100% guarantee you’re going to get a full-on centimeter-by-centimeter description of each and every book/manuscript she looks at.As soon as she walked into one, I’d roll my eyes and think here we go and just listen to the audiobook as background noise while scrolling Pinterest.5. The phrase “I let out a breath I didn’t know I was holding” makes an appearance.But only once, so I allowed it.Am I going to read the next one? Damn right I am. I’ve already put the kettle on.
5011237799	"Magic is a gift, Diana. Just like love."I feel like this book was a gift for the teenager who grew up loving Edward Cullen. How on earth was I able to wait so long to open it? I think it's because I was meant to read it when I could text my wonderful friend, Aly about this world she loves as much as I love Edward and Forks.Isn't that something?It's been a long time since I've been so entranced by a fantasy novel. I escape into ACOTAR and Twilight to feel everything I did the first time I read those, and I think All Souls is going to turn into that for me as well. The lore, the history, the magic, the absolute love that went into creating this fantastical world. Deborah Harkness is a genius. I'm so glad I'm in it now.As stated above, I've loved vampires all my reading life. I can't even begin to explain how much Edward has meant to me for over a decade. To find Matthew and remember falling in love with Edward by falling in love with him: there just aren't words. I know these stories are different. I know Matthew is much more complex than Edward ever could have been starring in a young adult novel. I know that Matthew is going to become so much more to me in the coming pages, and I can't wait to see how his journey continues.The true star of this book for me, though, was Diana. The quote above captured so much of the plot for me in one simple statement. She grew up believing that if she were to use her magic, she couldn't call anything her own. It caused her to hold back, to not learn, and to push all of her family history behind a door that never should have been closed. I love that Hamish (I'm going to love him forever, too) pointed out to Matthew so early on that expectations are terrifying, and she can't be pushed to become something she's not ready to partake in.In between falling in love and bonding over history... there's also the mystery of how witches, vampires and demons came to be. The mystery of wondering how their species can continue when they're dying out. There's war coming. There's fueds that have existed longer than any human lifetime. There's a story that never could have been just a story.So many things pushed me to keep flipping the pages. My favorite thing about reading has always been forgetting that time passes around you. Forgetting there's a world outside of the one you're in. The most spectacular thing about this one is that time seems to have no meaning.Matthew is thousands of years old, and he falls in love with a modern woman who loves history. What could be more perfect? More magical, as my quote implies? I can't wait to see where time takes them next.
3105147718	NOPE. This was just... not for me. :(
146965402	I had a hard time deciding how to rate this book. The plot moved beautifully, and the author has clearly put a load of effort into researching many different worlds. This book has that particular quality that makes you want to finish it all in one go.The biggest problem I had was with the main character- Diana Bishop.She starts out as an admirable, independent woman, entirely capable of making her own decisions and standing her ground. Unfortunately, by the time the book ends, she's turned into Bella Swan. While the first half of the book was engaging, once the romantic aspect started to develop, I was reminded of the Twilight saga where the lead couple seems to care of nothing but themselves, and expects any and every other character in the plot to put their own lives on the line for them and the special snowflake that is their love. The premise of the book looks so huge and promising at the beginning, but the end reads a lot like Breaking Dawn, in many ways.
2756877311	Update 20/6/19: Updating my review to remove the name of my BR partner bcz they specifically requested so. Apparently my review is too shameful a thing for them to be seen connected with! However, taking digs at me, my reviews and making attempts at countering my review with their own is NOT beneath them. But my honest review is shameful for them, so much so that they had to go ahead and block me on GR bcz how dare I not like the book that they love and how dare I voice my thoughts that disagreed with the Royal Highness. Dammit Anish!!Original review:Well, here I am again, in this situation where I am thoroughly disappointed with a very highly rated book. I mean this book has over 300,000 ratings with an average rating of 4.0 and here I am, rating it a meager 2 stars and about point out a BUNCH of problems I had with this book. While the high rating of this book does make me nervous about the back lash I might get from the fans of this book or series, I resolutely stand by with my observations of it.Let’s get something generic out of the way before I dive into the review. When reading a series, the first book has to, understandably so, lay foundation work for the whole series and establish the background but it also has to do the most important job of making me care about the lead characters enough to wanna pick up the succeeding books. And this book completely fails to do that. It was so bland and blegh that I highly doubt I will be picking up the second book any time soon or completing this series (yes, I am trying to be able to start giving up on books that are a waste of my time and efforts).Let me try to break it all down into neat categories and pretend that my reviews are coherent to an extent.Spoilers ahead to support my dissection of the book.PlotWell, the plot, as mentioned in the blurb, is that Diana, a scholar, unwittingly calls up a book from the stacks of library, a long lost and coveted alchemical manuscript which sets in motion things that she had nothing to do with and wants no part of.Now let me be honest and say that it is this exact description/blurb that made me wanna pick up the book bcz as long as it is limited to this, the book sounds good. But as we delve into the book and start reading, we start seeing problems. The plot develops with a chain of events being set in motion bcz of the discovery of the said manuscript, the Ashmole 782, and all manners of creatures (which are limited to three: Witches, Vamps and Daemons) start stalking our lead lady, Diana. Unaware of what’s happening around her and why, Diana keeps up with her regular life till a certain ‘mysterious’ vamp, Matthew, comes up to her and acquaints himself and brings to her notice what she has set in motion and thus begins our cat and mouse chase, supposedly (I’ll circle back to the plot to nitpick it in my following sections). Writing The writing is decent enough tbh, but nothing special or even above par. The author is an expert in her field as a scholar/professor of history and she imbues the book with the details relevant to that. There is quite a bit to be learned and gleaned from her knowledge of history and so many many texts and books mentioned. Someone who wants to go on a tangent and hunt for all that will definitely find quite a bit. But if I talk about just her writing skill, it’s got me going meh. I personally feel that the author isn’t really adept at switching from one para to the other or one thought to the other. When she makes the switch, it seems pretty disconnected and leaves you wondering what you missed even though you didn’t miss anything. For example: Matthew: “I killed a woman in Jerusalem. She got between Baldwin and me. There was a great deal of blood. I loved her, and she—” He’d killed someone else, not a witch, but a human. My finger stilled his lips. “That’s enough for now. It was a long time ago.” I felt calm but was shaking again, unable to bear any more revelations. Matthew brought my left hand to his lips and kissed me hard on the knuckles. His eyes told me what he couldn’t say aloud. Finally he released both my hand and my eyes and spoke. “If you’re worried about Baldwin, we’ll do it another way. We can soak the fleece off with compresses, or you could shower.” The mere thought of water falling on my back or the application of pressure convinced me to risk Baldwin’s possible thirst. “The bath would be better.”Now tell me, why the hell would Diana be concerned about Baldwin when Matthew killed someone he loved (and Diana is also someone he loves)? And yes, this is a complete para. Nothing is missing. Nothing that precedes this para adds anything to it either. This is an issue throughout the book and it ruined my reading experience by quite a bit. It’s as if they are talking about X at one point and immediately they switch to Y in the next para without a proper end to one line of thought. Very off putting.Also, while the entire book is in 1st person POV of Diana, a couple of chapters for Matthew are written in 3rd person. I absolutely hated it! The writing itself is not good to begin with and then you switch style mid way? Nope. Characters Now before I detail each character separately, I want to simply remark upon the fact that this book has a severely short cast and there are so few characters with so minimal interactions amongst each other and the world around them that it surprised me.>MatthewHe is supposed to be a mysterious vamp who’s led a long life and he’s supposed to have a lot of knowledge and power and obviously a lot of secrets. But all that Matthew comes across as is a lame and shallow guy who’s been practically waiting for the first woman to look his way so he could fall in love with her and that’s just about it. Matthew’s character is a very bland one with no real growth or even scope of growth. He basically is just present in the story bcz the author willed it so, he is a vamp bcz the author willed it so. He is so damn flat and two dimensional. Not to mention he is a huge sexist! Not an overt kinda one but a more subtle one who covers his sexism with his ‘chivalry’. All his need to ‘protect’ Diana, his ‘you belong to me’ and his carrying Diana in his arms to carry her to bed or to put her in saddle despite Diana being a seasoned rider and his blatant ordering around of Diana (and 2 other female characters) reeks of sexism. If I am honest, it’s pretty hard to miss it.>DianaDiana, a 21st century scholarly woman who’s spent most of her life running away from and ignoring the fact that she is a witch. She stubbornly refuses to use any magic bcz she wants a normal life. She is also one of the most boring female leads I have ever read about and she is literally the one female character I have ever read that’s making me use a term that I never thought I would. She is such a Mary Sue. She’s always in trouble and has a constant need of being saved and protected despite her being the “chosen one” of her world and despite her being a very powerful witch, supposedly. She is also a female lead that conforms to all the sexism being thrown at her. She barely has any will of her own and makes no stand. She is so weak that it makes Alina from Grishaverse seem like a badass compared to her, and that is saying something!Now you might think why I mentioned only two characters bcz there are bound to be other characters. And there are. But they are just too passive and have no bearing on the story, one way or the other. Funny thing that I would like to mention here is this: This book has a huge cast of female characters, Ysabeau, Marthe, Sarah, Emily and a few more, not to mention the author is a lady too. And despite that, not only are they all VERY submissive and sidelined with no direct impact on the story, they serve to highlight (unintentionally from the author) the sexism in the book that I mentioned previously. World Building Pathetic. That’s the only word that describes the time and effort devoted to the developing of the world around the characters and how they interact with it. There is literally no world building to speak of. I do get that the book is placed in the modern day and age but how do the supernatural creatures and elements interact with it all and how they are different, nothing has been paid mind to. Magic System I found it wanting for details, terribly so, just like the world building. We are in a world of witches but it’s never mentioned what the witches draw their powers off of. Is there a limit to their powers or not? If there is an extent to which they can push themselves or if they can cast spells endlessly. What kind of spells can they work? What kind of toll does the magic take on them, if any? Are the other creatures vulnerable to their magic or not? Nothing. Very lousy. Problem Areas Gosh dang, now comes the section where I might sound like a jerk but I found a lot that was wrong with this book and I will try to touch on all of it and try to keep it short and coherent. I will list them out in the order of least to most annoying things.>> Let’s start with the info dumps. There are multiple ones in the book, especially Chapter 1 has quite the info dump and it is something that immediately puts you off. >> So, Diana is raised by two witches, Sarah and Emily, and her parents were also witches who died years ago. Basically Diana has been surrounded by Magic all her life but for someone who was born a witch and was raised by witches all around, Diana is way too naive in regards to the magic and lore and the world around her in general! I find that kinda hard to believe.>> Moving on along with the story, Diana falls in love with Matthew but I am wondering how can someone fall so deeply in love in 3 weeks that they would risk not only their own lives but also their family's life for the said lover? Not only is she endangering her loved ones and herself, Diana is taking up a fight, more like a war, against forces she doesn’t even understand bcz she’s fallen that deeply in love with Matthew in less than a MONTH! Again, I find that very hard to believe but alright, let’s keep going.>> Despite having been issued multiple death threats (by witches and Vamps, both) Diana is super chill and busy lazing around, not kidding. At one point she literally says she was "too tired" to do her research or anything lifesaving at all and was busy getting to know her husband, Matthew. Nope, you did not read it wrong and that leads me to my next problem area.>> Matthew declares Diana as his wife bcz, as he explained, he “sealed the deal” by just telling Diana that he loves her and kissing her and hence, now they are mated for life bcz well, that’s just how the vamps roll. And Diana, the amazing lovely witch Diana, is okay with that! She's literally known the guy for less than a frigging MONTH, 3 weeks to be precise, where they met on and off and talked even less but they're just supposed to have this weird chemistry that is irresistible to both despite not just common sense but also despite a treaty amongst creatures? They suddenly love each another more than their own lives? Are you kidding me? And then there is also a talk of kids and a scene where Matthew is “protectively hugging Diana’s belly to “protect” the unborn (also unconceived) child”! Are you frikking kidding me? >> Also is anyone going to address the issue of a centuries old vamp, over a millennia old in this case, falling for a young lady he just met? I mean do they not have any restraint? Moreover, have they no life? You've literally lived for a millennia and you are just conveniently single? *Twilight alert* >> Another issue I have is that Diana makes no effort, absolutely no effort, to learn, hone or even control her new found powers (which are going haywire btw) that may help her up until atleast 65% mark in the book. She is just content to be from a reputed lineage of witches and she is very unfazed by all the threats to her life. I guess that comes from having a protector in Matthew.>> Later in the book, Diana takes Matthew to her home and her home is alive. Like legit alive and it’s also haunted. And Matthew (and many other guests who join later) take all of that so casually and become accustomed to it so damn easily that it bothered me. I mean how can you become used to a haunted house that is also ALIVE in an instant? How are you even comfortably sleeping on your very first night in a house that literally responds to things? It’s just lazy writing.>> Also, have I mentioned just how much I hate when a guy tries to be an Alpha by saying "You're mine now"? Or randomly picking a girl up and carrying her around (which Matthew does an inexcusable number of times in this book)? At one point in this book, Ysabeau (Matthew’s mother) even tells Diana explicitly to always follow Matthew bcz he is the Alpha *facepalm*Dude, she aint a piece of property! You didn’t fucking buy her and you're not an Alpha male just bcz you act like a douche and pass sexist remarks!>> Another thing that irked me was how Diana, a person who is shown to have absolutely no conscious control of her magic, now suddenly is able to timewalk and go back not minutes or days, but centuries, in time while carrying a passenger! And obviously she doesn’t need any training in timewalking bcz she’s been conveniently doing it since she was a little kid. Obviously. And apparently this part of her powers was not bound by her parents (looks at Tahera).>> Now is the time for my BIGGEST problem with this book and I will explain this in excruciating detail so someone can help me understand, but first some context.Diana is a scholar, historian, who calls up a very old manuscript in the library for her research purposes. While the library guy is handing Diana that manuscript, he specifically says “this one’s not been called up in a while”. At first the clasp on the said manuscript won’t open and then Diana places her palm on it and it opens with a sigh! Upon paging through it, Diana realizes it’s more than a manuscript. It’s an enchanted text which has some pages missing and that it is a palimpsest. But then after paging for a while she realizes she's not interested in that book after all bcz it supposedly had incorrect text and then Diana returns the book to the same library guy on the same day. After this, many creatures start following and spying on Diana and later she and Matthew decide that they need to see that manuscript again. This time when Diana calls for the book, the same librarian guy as before (and his boss) tell Diana that the said manuscript has been missing since 1859.Now, let’s get something straight here before I state my questions/issues. The manuscript in itself (without the hidden text inside) is an actual artefact and an old alchemical volume which Diana specifically mentions has been moved to the Bodleian library from the Ashmole museum. But on the inside this manuscript is also a palimpsest (meaning there is some hidden things/text/spells inside the original text), whose contents we don’t know about yet, bcz of which the manuscript has been enchanted by some powerful witch. Meaning that the book on the surface is just and old alchemical text that has existed for a long time but someone put some secret text inside that regular book and then enchanted it for the sake of keeping it hidden.Finally, here are my MULTIPLE issues with this. And yes, I will cover all possibilities I can think of, magical and non-magical. Here we go:1. Diana, a scholar, called up a manuscript for research only to realize that this isn’t a good source. So basically, she called up a manuscript for her research without knowing what’s in it? Not a very smart scholar, is she?2. In case an ancient text is missing, why would Diana, a historian with doctorate, call for it in the first place? Not a very good historian, is she?3. Why did the librarian guy not feel surprised that he handed a book to Diana and then days later the same book is declared missing? Or vice versa. Why did he not feel surprised when he found a long lost ancient text in his hands?4. How did Diana unlock it without using any magic when it was clearly enchanted?5. You might say that since the manuscript is enchanted, hence it is assumed “missing” since 1859. In that case, why did the librarian guy say “it’s not been called up in a while”?6. But Anish, it is possible that the manuscript presented itself to Diana on its own, just like the sword of Godric Gryffindor in HP. In that case, why was there a “call slip” attached to the book? 7. But Anish, it’s a magical text. The book could have created the “call slip” for its own protection. In the book, there is no indication that artefacts can do magic on their own in such a way and create things out of thin air. Even if the book could do it all, why did Diana accept a manuscript she hadn’t called? Why wasn’t she surprised at the least?8. But Anish, you’re missing that the book was enchanted and hidden in such a way so that only Diana could use it and the book would present itself only when she needed it. Alright, if that was the case, then why was the book hidden in a library where Diana may or may not have gone? Why not just enchant it in a manner like the sword of Godric Gryffindor? 9. But Anish, you’re nitpicking and being ridiculous! Maybe I am but my follow up question to the above question is that if the book was enchanted to present itself to only Diana and only in her time of need, then why did the book present itself first to the librarian? 10. But Anish… My follow-up question to the follow-up question (and one of the biggest WHY) is why did the book present itself at the time it did bcz Diana clearly didn’t need it bcz she returns it immediately?Basically, all my questions should tell you that I am thoroughly unconvinced with biggest plot point that literally drives this book and I personally feel that this book has way too many plot holes for me to give it a pass. Many smaller plot holes I haven’t even touched bcz I am running out of max review length. Overall Impact I think this book was doomed from the minute the author got busy in setting up romance dynamics and justifying why Diana should/would be the one true love for Matthew and just how much they both will love each other beyond reason and then she tries to build a story around that. And while she focuses so much on this, rest of everything takes a huge hit. Worst of all is that despite so much focus on these two characters, their love affair falls flat on its face! Also, this is not a small book. 580 pages long, it should have offered so much more depth than it did which means its meandering and boring.Also, the overall tone of the book is just too relaxed to sound real or convincing. With life threatening danger looming (and despite 2 attempts on their lives and torture) all of these characters are having meals together and lounging and basically just chilling with no sense of urgency at all. They have no intention of putting up a fight either. Just flight. Not a book I’ll ever recommend to anyone and probably a series that I am gonna DNF bcz well, it’s over a 1100 pages to go for the remaining two books and the author has thoroughly failed to give me even a single reason to invest so much time and energy into it.
2974082544	Why so much yoga?
4320577060	I’ll write a better review later (no promises), but the best way to sum up this book is by saying that it is exceedingly obvious that this book was written by a white woman.
172359609	Hm. Okay. Well.This book is a problem. On the one hand, I absolutely love the world Harkness has created. I love all the secondary characters. I love her writing. The imagery was fantastic: I could hear, smell, taste, and feel everything.On the other hand, I COULD HEAR, SMELL, TASTE, AND FEEL EVERYTHING. If the main character, Diana, put on one more pair of comfortably stretched out black leggings, warm thick socks, and cozied up for yet another cup of @#$^& tea I was gonna kill her myself. Good golly this book had pacing problems! The author would lovingly describe every thing they ate for dinner, including the look, aroma, and taste of each glass of wine they consumed (Harkness also writes a wine blog. Her characters suck down 100 year old bottles like there's no tomorrow. IN GLORIOUS DETAIL.). Diana and Matthew, her overbearing douchebag vampire lover-- Oh, pardon me! I mean, her protective, chivalrous vampire lover-- go on long walks. They sample wine. They gaze into each other's eyes. They read books. Work on their laptops. Have random, circular conversations about stuff and things. Meanwhile, Diana's life is in grave danger. At the very beginning she finds and almost unlocks the secrets of an ancient and powerful book, and everyone wants to get their hands on it. But that's not as important as the fact that Matthew has horses! And they can ride the horses! And the horses are pretty! Also, he's a really good dancer! And they do yoga together! YOGA!The last 150 pages of the book move along at a fantastic clip. The secondary characters (the ones I loved, as you will recall), all come together and Stuff Starts Happening. Stuff Happens throughout the book, but more time is spent describing surroundings than what's going on in them. I suppose this is to protect Diana from The Truth. What truth? Oh, any truth. Matthew wants to protect her . . . from everything. (The point where I almost destroyed a library book came when he tried to carry her up the stairs because she was tired and might stumble and stub her toe.) He conceals information from her about his past, the people hunting her, her own past, her parents, her DNA, where they are flying in a private plane, and what bedroom she's going to be staying in. No. Really. There is basically nothing that she is allowed to know. Meanwhile, every damn person around them including the cat is allowed in on Matthew's secrets. But Diana. Must. Be. Protected.Given the above rant, you can understand how good the ending is, and the secondary characters. I normally finish every book I start, but I almost put this one down a couple of times. As soon as I swore I would, however, one of my new favorite characters would pop up, or some crazy crap would happen, and it would pull me back in.I'm completely torn about whether or not to read the second one. My sister, who urged me to read this, said the second one was even more interested, but had WORSE pacing problems.
2612391197	Loved this, like a supernatural Da Vinci Code!Similar to the Da Vinci Code, this book has scholars, secrets, Knights Templar, origin stories and all the intrigue you can handle, but it also has Witches, Vampires and Daemons. It is intellectually stimulating and well written. I loved the entire ride and all the kooky characters. “Matthew?” I croaked, swiveling my head to the side to look for him. His face appeared. “Yes, my darling?” “Where did the pain go?” “It’s magic,” he said, attempting a lopsided grin for my benefit. “Morphine,” I said slowly, remembering the list of drugs he’d given to Marthe. “That’s what I said. Everyone who has ever been in pain knows that morphine and magic are the same. Blog|Goodreads|Facebook|Instagram|Twitter|BookBub
2927790409	One of my all time favorite books. I've read it more times then I know of. I remember my first read, the beginning felt so slow. But now that I know everything about the books, really well; I enjoy the beginning. Witches, Vampires and a different kind of Demon. Adventures and the discovery of powers. Should be enemies to lovers. It has everything a urban fantasy lover would enjoy.
6409801265	･:*:･ﾟ⁀➷ 3/5 ★This book felt like a bit of a mixed bag for me- it had such a good beginning, but it kinda fell flat at the end ☹️ I did still enjoy it overall tho 🥰🤍“It begins with absence and desire.It begins with blood and fear.It begins with a discovery of witches.”Tropes:📖 Witch x vampire📖 Library setting📖 Fantasy romance 📖 Dark academia vibesI didn’t know much about this book going into it, but i do know that it is a tv show as well. I don’t regret giving this a try, but finishing it did feel a little unsatisfying 😔😔⁀➷ What I enjoyed:One thing i really liked about this book was the atmosphere! 🫶🫶 I don’t think it’s technically dark academia but it gave those vibes and the combination of the writing style and the library setting made it so atmospheric ✨️Plus i do think the magic system in this one was super unique! I liked the way books and history were involved and it was super interesting learning more about the world as the story went on 🥰“As far as I can tell there are only two emotions that keep the world spinning year after year...One is fear. The other is desire.”⁀➷ What I didn’t enjoy:I think my main issue with this book was the pacing. It’s nearly 600 pages, which is quite long for the first book in a series, and the pacing in the middle was so painfully slow 😭😭 The same things kept repeating over and over and it felt like nothing was ever being achieved. Things did start to happen towards the end, but by then i was too irritated to care 🙈As for the characters, they started off great but then i started caring about them less and less… ➵ Diana: she started off super strong & badass, but by the end of the book, she was a complete doormat, which annoyed me sm!! 😤😤 After a certain point, she stopped making her own decisions and just let everyone around her tell her what to do, and i was getting more and more irritated. ➵ Matthew: he was honestly pretty attractive at the beginning but he started doing a few things that creeped me out… 😵‍💫 i hated how he basically started controlling everything diana did and also the way he kept sniffing her? Ew no 🤢And the romance… it just did not do it for me. I liked the initial tension between them, but then the sniffing, matthew controlling diana and all the weird vampire stuff… it just gave me the ick ☹️“It is a blessing as well as a burden to love so much that you can hurt so badly when love is gone.”⁀➷ In conclusion:Definitely not a fav, but it was still decent 🤍✨️ I would recommend if you’re looking for:✔️ Interesting magic system✔️ Great atmosphere✔️ Vampires and witchesI probably won’t continue the series tho 😔Side note: if any of you have watched the tv show, do you think it’s worth it?? 👀《 2024 Challenge: Book 48 of 115 》･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟ･:*:･ﾟThis started off so good but then it went downhill 😔😔 still enjoyable, but I wish it was more fast-paced ✨️Rtc 🖤
3147911813	“He sought and found me. I am the flower of the field, a lily growing in the valley. I am the mother of true love, and of fear, and of understanding, and blessed hope. Why did I ever think I was over witches? I blame the countless days I passed by this book on the bookshop shelves remembering it’s about vampires and witches. Due to my pre-conceived notion that everything to do with witches or vampires would always circle around Twilight and Vampire Diaries. Thank you very much CW and Summit pictures for ruining my perception. It almost cost me a good book. An actual novel which sticks to the proper decorum of vampires and witches and scientific nature of it. Despite my ranting and successful optimistic attitude of the book, some may find it a tad too winded. Maybe for the more intellectual the scientific findings in the book are nonsensical. But thank to my inability to discern if it is correct or not, I was properly amazed by the book. I have got to admit, it was the constant remembrance of historical artifacts and such which kept hogging my attention to the book. The endless stream of knowledge I received in that sense thanks to the book is immense. Another positive aspect of the book is that it is not of hormone fueled teenagers. Finally we have a book where the protagonists have nothing to do but declare their virginal professions of love. Yes, at some aspects Diana pissed the living hells out of me but compared to the other sappy vampire romances I’ve read? This was walk in a park in terms of enduring such things. Despite the compelling story-line, I did not feel that much for the characters. They were pleasant but I felt more of a connection with Diana’s grandmother. She was one of the characters I liked. And of course Marcus. I’m a sucker for blondes. Who am I kidding? I’m always brunettes. So will I be diving into the second book? Nope. First of all I need to do a pursuit in all the bookshops (and I am sure I will come empty handed) in Sri Lanka to look for it. But I won’t mind staying for the movie tie in book to be published. *EDIT* So I managed to watch the TV adaption of this and I must add to this that it maybe one of the best adaptions of yet. The casting and the plot stay true to that of the book and it manages to capture the magic and essence of the book wonderfully.
1185525177	5 Stars I don't know why I like this book so much. I feel like that's my review in a nutshell. As a no life reader I am very very very very (just one more very) VERY aware of it flaws. It has so many flaws, I'm not stupid I see them. I just for some reason choose to ignore them and read this book for a third count that third time! I don't even like fantasy or romance but like fuck I'm into this book so much. YES! Tell me how she drinks her tea, get real descriptive with it, like make it a 3 page narration just on her tea preference, I don't care I'm reading it and for some reason loving it. A Discovery of Witches is like Twilight for adults. Honestly I hate Twilight I have no idea why I like this book so much. There's a manuscript that's magical that they talk about too much but for some reason I don't find it boring. There is a Vampire named Mathew who falls in love with a reluctant Witch named Diana they quickly become very codependent and for some reason it doesn't piss me off. They want the manuscript but other magical beings want it and their love is super forbidden, so stupid I love it so much! Also like 30% of this book is just Matthew talking about everything he smells and unlike the rooms in my home nothing smells like stale farts or moldy pizza in this world, only cloves and lilacs. Not realistic. I cannot wait to read the second book. Just to reiterate I have no idea why I'm so into this book but I will read the whole series, binge the tv show, slowly change everything about myself to become like Diana Bishop and wait for my Vampire lover soon to be husband after we date for two weeks.
222521633	This was a ripping yarn. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
6255644517	RATING BREAKDOWNCharacters: 3⭐️Setting: 5⭐️Plot: 3⭐️Themes: 2⭐️Emotional Impact: 1⭐️Personal Enjoyment: 2⭐️Total Rounded Average: 2.75 ⭐️The setting is what works for me, and it works so well, it compensates for the meandering plot and insta-lovey romance in A Discovery of Witches. I can tell the author is a historian and absolutely love that the story begins at Oxford with two academic creatures, a vampire and a witch. The plot unfolds as Diana comes to terms with being a witch, and finds her place in a very long history of creature politics, while simultaneously falling in love with a very old vampire with access to the books and lived experiences she can only dream of as a historian herself.I found the love story lacks tension at times and is borderline awkward at others due to Matthew being so much older than Diana. I also didn't feel invested in the friends and family that come into play in the back half, as the lovers involve their families in their rebellion against the creatures’ government. (They have laws that forbid different creature species from being romantically involved.)I am intrigued to see how the trilogy unfolds as Matthew and Diana explore her powers, research missing knowledge from the past, and ultimately seek to free and protect creatures today, even if it defies the powers and laws inherited from the past. The historic thread will continue through the series, and that aspect will keep me hooked throughout.
3858332471	Review to come
3586016950	i’m so glad i stole this book from my sister and didn’t buy it, i will be putting this back on her bookshelf immediately. despite being a historian and super prestigious, the main character is an absolute dumbass on top of also being annoying. she’s oblivious to absolutely everything and of course every guy she comes across is in love with her. speaking of love, this book is very instalove which sometimes i don’t mind but i hated this because the main male character was saying he was in love with her after only seeing her 3 times like dude youre 1500 years old, get a damn grip. i was interested in how possessive he was but even that wasn’t good enough to keep me interested. the plot was good but once again i don’t think it was good enough, i found myself extremely bored while reading this book and i couldn’t wait until it was over. which sucks because it’s like 23 hours long on audiobook. i spent my entire shift at work reading this which only made me dread it even more. i see why it isn’t talked about on booktube.
3532002278	Uneventful toxic love story of a witch and a vampire. Full of cliches and literature references that supposed to make it look intellectual. Didn't work though. Can't understand why they chose to turn it into a TV series.
2212769660	Ladies and Gentlemen, I have a new favourite book about witches (and other creatures)! This book is full of the things that sum up the author: she first wanted to become a theater major (I suspect that will play a major role in the next book), ended up studying the Renaissance, then became a college professor and found herself becoming a historian of science though originally wanting to be a Tudor-Stuart historian (which will also play a big role in book #2); she also blogs about wine to this very day. All of it can be seen between the lines in this book.The story is that of scholar Diana Bishop, a witch with a genetic tie to one of the women killed in the Salem witch trials, finding a manuscript others have searched for for hundreds of years. It's also the story of Matthew Clairmont, a pretty old vampire who is also a geneticist (amongst several other professions that he, of course, had the time to persue). It's about alchemy and implications regarding the evolution and further survival of all four species (witches, vampires, daemons and humans).Yes, it is a love story, but nobody is sparkling and there is a slow burn instead of the dreadful insta-everything that most authors apply to books of this type.I'm not even entirely convinced this book has a "type".Because the story is also about the history of several places around the world (London, New York, France, Jerusalem), the Templars, the friends and family we keep and make, the folklore surrounding witches and vampires and daemons and so much more.What was so enchanting here was the author's way of transporting the reader to the respective setting. No matter if it was the dark wood of Oxford's Bodleian Library, the stone walls of Ysabeau's Chateau Dauphin near Pontgibaud in the Auvergne (complete with orchard, stables / resident horses and surrounding woods), or the frankly awesome house of aunt Sarah with its adjusting rooms, eccentric cat and ghosts - one could feel all of it. I revelled in all the details that made the settings come to life so vividly, which also goes for the dinner scenes or gatherings in Em's kitchen. I smelled and tasted the foods and drinks (if wine can taste the way it was described here, I haven't tried the right one yet but definitely should), I could almost touch the manuscripts and scrolls, felt as cozy and warm as Diana when she got wrapped up in blankets, chuckled quite frequently (especially when the aforementioned house opened or closed doors, revealed or snatched up belongings or one of the animals either in aunt Sarah's house or Ysabeau's chateau showed character) and simply had a blast. Equally, I almost cried when some of the plot points were revealed and can't wait for some of the creatures involved to get what they deserve.The magic was there, too, of course - as were the characteristics of the other species - but so was the science.Every character was unique, distinctly different, and adding important bits to the story.There was also enough action to thrill the reader and convey the gravity of the situation.Oh, and we got (and are getting even more in book #2) some timey-wimey stuff.All of the elements mentioned above were interwoven perfectly and can be regarded as ingredients that were put together tastefully to result in a delicious dish for us readers to relish. I do have the books as hardcovers but decided to listen to the audiobook and have to applaud the narrator for having gotten almost all the foreign names right (the French as much as the others). She's really rather good (since I am a linguist, it would have thrown me off otherwise).Yes, this is a love story, but without it being too sappy. It is old-fashioned in a way because there is absolute devotion, but isn't that how it is supposed to be (in real life, too)?!
280806830	Throughout most of this book, I had completely mixed feelings about it, but by the end, they were mostly negative. On one hand, it's the kind of thing I have been hoping to find for months. A long, juicy, involving saga with a complete, detailed mythology to back it up, filled with interesting nuggets of history, obviously researched in consummate detail - an intelligently written fantasy. On the other hand, there were numerous things about it that frustrated me so much it drove me mad, to the point that I sometimes couldn't wait for it to be over: chief amongst these was the relationship/romance between the two protagonists. Unfortunately, as this particular aspect became more and more prominent as the story went on, it was impossible to ignore and ended up ruining everything else for me.I could really have liked Diana, the main character and (for the whole book aside from a handful of chapters) the narrator: she is incredibly intelligent, physically strong and independent. In fact, at the beginning, I did like her a lot. Then she met Matthew, the vampire/love interest/hero (?), and it all went horribly wrong. I started writing what was practically an essay about how much I hated Matthew and his behaviour towards Diana, but you know what, I don't think it needs to be done. I haven't read many other reviews of this book but I have faith that others will have picked up on the horrible, suffocating, proprietary overtones of Matthew's character and articulated the problems with it better than me. Suffice to say, I think we can all agree that if the behaviour of a 'romantic hero' reminds you of an abusive relationship you were in, that's... not a good thing.A few points I just can't not mention:- Matthew's power and authority was reinforced so often (most noticeably in descriptions of their physical interaction, as well as his ways of addressing her) that no matter how frequently the narrative mentioned Diana's strength, fitness and agility, I couldn't help but picture her as small, weak and fragile- The 'scooping'... 'He scooped me into his arms, my feet swinging in midair', 'Matthew scooped me behind him' (does this even make sense?), 'He scooped me into his arms as if I weighed nothing'... and on and on it goes, is she made of ice cream??- The bit where she just accepts that (view spoiler)[he HAD to kill Gillian (hide spoiler)] (why? Was this ever properly explained or justified, because I didn't think it was at all?)- The (non-)sex scenes made me want to throw up - not an exaggeration, I truly felt nauseous- I deserve some kind of award for the self-restraint I exercised in not smashing my Kindle to pieces any one of the 6000 times Matthew called Diana 'mon coeur' or 'ma lionne'I tried to believe in their love, I tried not to see Matthew's every action from an indignant feminist standpoint, but I just couldn't. I hated him - none of his supposed charisma translated from the page into something I could actually picture. And I say that as someone who has developed a crush on so many fictional psychopaths, supervillians and generally morally dubious characters that it's embarrassing.I honestly thought the last six or seven chapters were absolutely awful. What was even going on? Why introduce an an enormously intriguing villain (view spoiler)[and then kill her off within a few pages? She was one of the most interesting characters in the book (hide spoiler)]! Who were those people who suddenly appeared at the end? I don't know because I seriously didn't care by that point and I knew there were too few pages left for the story to truly improve, or for Diana to come to her senses and bash Matthew's head in. Plot-wise I think the book had some problems anyway, especially in terms of structure and pacing: as some other reviews have pointed out, not much actually happened overall, and I will never understand why the hell it took Diana so long to try and recall that manuscript from the library - or why, if all these creatures are so powerful, they didn't just break in and steal it, or use spells/magic to claim it? If it was really such a big deal, would they not have done something more decisive and ruthless than following Diana around the library on a daily basis...?!Good things worth mentioning: the historical detail, the characterisation (apart from Matthew), the fantastic range of settings. The detailed descriptive language was both good and bad: it created a real sense of place and atmosphere - I could practically taste the food and wine - but sometimes made the story feel like it was moving at a snail's pace. I really enjoyed reading about Diana on her own, and some of the other characters were genuinely great - I particularly liked Matthew's best friend Hamish, a daemon, and his vampire mother Ysabeau. I would have liked to read more about these characters, heard their backstories, and if Harkness does eventually write novels set in this world that aren't focused on Matthew and Diana, I will still be interested in reading them.This book had so much going for it, and could have been so much better. But when I finally finished it, my overriding feeling was 'thank god THAT'S over'. I would only read the sequel if Matthew wasn't in it, and I'm guessing there is 0% chance of that.
2123182690	This I probably the quickest I’ve read a 600+ page book.I loved this the mystery, the romance and the heart in the novel made me not want to put it down. 5✨2020 UPDATE: full review (finally) So despite this being my second reading of the first novel in the All Souls Trilogy, A discovery of witches didn’t fail to capture my attention from the first 5 pages just like before. A spellbound witch and a vampire what else do you need? Diana bishop is a historian and professor at Oxford University opens a bewitched alchemical manuscript in Oxford’s Bodalian library represents an unwelcome intrusion of magic into her carefully ordinary life. Though descended from a long line of witches, she is determined to remain untouched by her family’s legacy.Among the creatures lurking around Diana is vampire Mathew Clairmont, a geneticist with a passion for Darwin. Together, Diana and Matthew embark on a journey to understand the manuscript’s secrets. But the relationship that develops between the ages-old vampire and the spellbound witch threaten to unravel the rocky peace that has long existed between creatures and humans and will certainly transform Diana’s world as she knows it.Let’s start with the cons so we finish on a high note shall we? -YOGA... why the heck is there so much yoga!? -the pacing gets a bit slow in the middle of the book. -Mathew is so damn controlling (the series honestly fixes that, I highly recommend giving it a watch) -How fucking infuriating Diana can be at some point like she doesn’t NEED to be that naive and she started off to independent wtf. I feel like I’m reading Bella from Twlight. Pros -Dedorah Harkness’ way with words, girl writes a beautiful tale. -THE SIDE CHARACTERS: I love them all, Marcus, Miriam, Sophie, even Peter Knox they are such interesting chapters I can’t wait to learn more about them. -The history of alchemy how damn cool is it specially how Deborah Harkness has managed to weave magic through out it. (& science too) -THE PLOT... the plot itself is so damn interesting, I love it! -I love the gathering of characters towards the end really got me pumped. -the whole scenes with Mathew and Diana’s Aunts.-THE GHOSTS. So what are my overall thoughts you ask? WELL...I adore this story, I can dismiss the negatives because I’m whole heartedly invested in the story, I trust the authors decision in making the characters the why they are and I’m ready for some series chapter development through the next two books. Her story telling us so eloquent and lovely, she gets you hooked by the very first pages and soon you’re so intrigued not just by the story but by her writing that you’re 100 pages in. I’m so invested in learning more about Mathew.I’m a sucker (like our main girl Diana Bishop) for history! So sue me this book really makes me excited and the romance is pretty swoon worthy if you ask me. (The horse riding scenes, 7-14 year old horse obsessed Emma is quaking.) Made me miss riding I’m not gonna lie. Anyway if you couldn’t tell I really enjoyed this and I’m surprised I did so on my second read, I’ve ordered the next books in this trilogy so I’ll report back when I’ve absorbed those beauties. 5 stars... again. ✨✨✨✨✨
2589660169	3.5 starsI only read this because I watched the tv show. Yes, yes, I know what sacrilege I committed. But I'm gonna be honest, the TV show was better. It has multiple,simultaneous POVs and builds the tension between all parties more effectively. Due to it being only 8 episodes, the love card gets played waaaay too early but I can't blame them considering the time restrictions they had.In the book, the main POV is Dianas with very few chapters from Matthews POV and a rare small snippet from a random side character. All three books meander, a lot. For a love story the first book doesn't contain actual sex, and the foreplay it does contain is sort of vague, sanitised and definitely not erotic or explicit. It also doesn't contain swear words, other than "shit" in different languages. I really can't believe that vampires that are thousand years old don't drop the f-bomb when shit goes repeatedly wrong. Is it worth the read? Yeah, more because the magic later on is awesome but I warn you that you have to slog through a lot of filler in the second and some in the third book to get to it. P.S. I have to give props to whoever adapted this for the screen and whoever did the casting. They did brilliantly.
3506386680	Well I’ll be witched, I liked it! Despite its popularity, I’ve been reluctant to tackle this series given its length and genre (fantasy/paranormal romance). To my surprise, I sped through this first installment introducing Diana (a modern-day witch) and Matthew (a centuries-old vampire). While I’m waiting for my library hold on the follow up, I’ll probably check out the AMC / Sky One TV adaptation. If this has been lingering on your “one day” list, I highly suggest waiting to savor it in October with your pumpkin spice whatever. Halloween factors into the plot, and I couldn’t help but wish the leaves were red, orange, and brown while I read it.
641760609	First Read: This was a DNF for me.A book that deals with witches, time travel, AND the pursuit of scholastic knowledge? It seemed like Deborah Harkness had tailored this book just for me. However, just like Outlander, this book suffered from what I like to call, the "smart women meets alpha male and loses her s___" syndrome, which basically means that the main character just loses all her common sense along with her willpower within a 50 pages of the beginning of the book. I really get upset when authors take this approach to character building of female protagonist because it seems like a waste of a novel. On top of this, the authors also seem to believe that they can add copious amounts of sex on top of their one track plotline and it just turns the novel into a mundane read with no redeemable qualities. I personally can only take so much of an alpha male forcibly directing the female protagonist (who the author has gone out of her way to detail as being SMART to begin with) around before I become sick of reading these type of lackluster novels and chuck them in the bin.…sigh…But, I digress. Read it if you want, don't if you don't want. I can't recommend it in good faith to anyone. If you like this book you may like Fifty Shades of Grey or Twilight. Otherwise, just go and watch the television show and save yourself the trouble of wasting valuable reading time.First Update: I watched the 2018 television adaption from the Sundance Now channel and it was actually a decent show. I will definitely be watching season 2.Second Read: The second half of the book is much better than first half. Diana and Matthew are still annoying. I like the other characters tho. There’s something about the “all-consuming” love trope that makes my behind itch. Matthew is super annoying. Finally, Harkness should've had longer chapters with secondary characters.So many other characters are more interesting than Diana and Matthew, but we get so little of their perspective.
2168292890	El mundo que ha creado la Harkness es fascinante. Realmente me ha encantado esta primera parte y estoy deseando saber cómo continua. El único pero que he encontrado en la historia ha sido Diana. No sé exactamente porque, pero en según que momento se me ha hecho insufrible! Quizá porque la he encontrado algo (bastante) egoísta.
4136915975	I loved this story. I am not usually a big romance fan and, although the romance was central to the story, it was not THE story. All of these different creatures that historically didn’t trust each other coming together was so very interesting and entertaining. It is the start of an epic tale and I thoroughly enjoyed it!
2609235606	God cause of exams it took me forever to finish this book.
2535531027	A Discovery of Witches is the first installment in Deborah Harkness's paranormal 3-book series titled: All Souls Trilogy. This was a long-ass book with sections that felt so familiar it gave me flashbacks of other reading experiences, but overall an engaging story that is worthy of its following in my opinion. I have to admit I was impressed with all the history, science, and wine elements threaded throughout this story, which made up for all the borrowed plotlines. I read it in preparation for the upcoming TV adaptation which I plan to watch; however, simply based on my personal enjoyment, I am undecided if I plan to continue reading. If you enjoy the paranormal/fantasy genres that feature vampires and witches, then it's worth a look. My favorite quote:"I've always thought yoga and magic had a lot in common."
6240553822	A Discovery of Witches is all vibes. I love the settings in this story just as much as I enjoy the characters. The strongest pull for me personally was the history woven in throughout the book. I immediately started listening to the second book in the series. The Audio book is 10 out of 10!
915975085	I kept hearing about this book and, when my friend gave me a copy to read, I put it on my TBR pile. To boil down the plot to its most basic level - it's Twilight in academia. However, there are many differences in the world building and it's a richer story with historical details. The main protagonist, Diana is a professor on sabbatical at Oxford University doing research and calls up this book that everyone's been wanting forever. There are demons, witches, and vampires in this world, but they don't mix as that would draw too much attention to themselves. She's also a witch, but refuses to use her powers so she's pretty helpless in three fourths of the book. The other main character, a vampire, who also has a million degrees and does research on genetics, fills in as her protector. He wants the book, too, but spends his time keeping her safe until she learns how to use her powers.Overall I was intrigued by the world and history of alchemy. There are lots of characters that kept my interest and I finished the book. I couldn't really connect to the main protagonists - it was written in first person POV, but I felt there was a distance to Diana and the vampire - they reported on what was going on rather than...experiencing it. This is the first book of a trilogy and, like a true trilogy it does not solve any puzzles (IMO a trilogy is just one huge story broken into 3 parts and all the puzzles will be solved in book 3. A series is different as each book has a complete story (something is solved/resolved). So if you're the type that likes to have all the books published, you'll have to wait until July for the final book). I'm on the fence about reading book 2 - I'm not sure I care enough about the characters, but I'm curious about the plot... Has anyone read it? What do you think?
2856512196	"A faded Aubusson rug stretched across the floors anchored with a collection of original William Morris funiture. Somehow the fifteenth century architecture, the eighteenth century rug and the nineteenth century rough hewn oak looked splendid together and gave the rooms the atmosphere of a select Edwardian gentlemen's club" A Discovery of Witches is many things. An ode to old architecture, Oxford, Oxford University, the Ashmolean Musem, yoga, spelling out the exact clothes characters wear, Darwin, tea drinking, Wine drinking, even more wine drinking (seriously drinking wine was crazy in this book, i'm still unsure how no-one ever got drunk with the amount of wine consumed) , horseback riding, misogyny cavemen tendencies, what it isn't, is a good book. At over 500 pages, i'm tempted to believe that Deborah Harkness in her spare time, dabbles in finding inventive ways to torture people.(view spoiler)[ Dear Diary,Today i used my call slip to request books. Turns out one of the books in the pile was enscrolled. The Ashmole 782. Fancy that!!! Really didn't want to get into the whole witchy thing because as you know witchcraft isn't my thing. Returned book back to Sean. Ever loving not witch, Diana.📌Dear Diary,Totally weird, but today i met a vampire. You would think i would be like super scared cos it was dark and we were alone and hello, stranger danger but phew "this one was tall- well over six feet...broad shoulders narrowed into slender hips which flowed into lean, muscular legs. His hands were strikingly long and agile, a mark of physiological delicacy..."I know, legit seems insane right? me admiring him instead of being concerned for my safety but i get to that eventually. i mean i am the main character in this. What's going to happen?Ever loving not witch, Diana.📌Dear Diary,Matthew (The hot guy that could totally have murdered me) keeps hanging around. Enter operation fall in love. Why? He's hot, i'm available, we're every author's couple dream come true.p.s: People seem to be going crazy about Ashmole 782. Should use my call slip to request for the book again.Ever loving not witch, Diana.📌Dear DiaryYoga!!!D😊📌Dear DiaryArchitechture. Omg wine!!!Oh yeah should get back to important stuff.D😊📌Dear Diary,Tried to request the book with my call slip (honestly really not sure why every one is bugging this much). OMG!! Sean must be insane. He said the book hasn't being called up in ages. Weird!! He literally gave me this book.p.s: Honestly, i think it would be better for everyone involved if i said the book went back into the library and i tried to use my witchy power to call it out but it didn't work this time unlike the last time. Yeah? That's what i'll go with now.D😊📌Dear Diary,Matthew keeps getting angry over me asking the most simple questions. I would ex him, but that's really not the story i'm going with.Ride with him till i die. Would kick my family to the curb for him. Too soon? we're falling in love."In the center of my soul, a rusty chain began to unwind. It freed itself, link by link from where it had rested unobserved waiting for him...The chain continued to drop, to an unfathomable depth where there was nothing but darkness and Matthew. At last it snapped to its full length anchoring me to a vampire"D😊📌Dear Diary,Totally shaken. Someone really tried it!! Pictures of Mom and Dad dead in Nigeria sent to me. Matthew is taking me to France to stay with Mummy Vampire.D😔📌Dear Diary,Mummy vampire isn't crazy pleased to see me. Ashmole 782? What's that?Going horse back riding. Drinking wine later. Fab architecture by the way.Toodles.D😊📌Dear Diary,Some scary looking vampire showed up today. Matthew and i can't do the whole inter-species love. Ugh!!! I called the Aunts to yell at them. How could they not tell me about this?What? i wasn't interested in anything witchcraft? This is not my fault. Aunts' at fault.p.s ❤❤ conquers all. Matthew and Diana 4eva. In your face congregation.Ashmole 782? Can you focus please!!!!D😊📌Dear Diary,Matthew isn't feeling the whole "in your face congregation thing". Something urgent came up at Oxford so he had to go back.Almost killed myself (literally) crying tears that turned into the ocean??(i don't get it either)p.s: Almost forgot i'm like an OG Witch. Word!!!! Can do like crazy things you can only imagine in your wildest imagination.D😊📌Dear Diary,Spending the day with Mummy Vampire. The worst!!! She took me on a diet hunt. Considering becoming a vegetarian after this. Anyways, honestly not sure what she hoped to achieve. Would love Matthew even with all the dietary restrictions.Ashmole 782? Really??? Honestly if i have to ask you to focus one more time. My love is at stake (No pun intended)Matt & D 4eva ❤❤❤❤📌Dear Diary,MATTHEW IS BACK!!! He kissed me. We're married. No he literally kissed me and said we were married. Got freaky in bed but no sex. Totally important you should know that.D😊📌Dear Diary,THE WORST!!! Kidnapped and Tortured!!! France is the pits!!!Heading back to New York to recuperate at the Aunts' place with Matthew❤❤.D🤢📌Dear Diary,Honestly New York is a blur. Made a deal with a goddess (long story, not sure how it plays in with witches, vampires and daemons but i feel like i'm making this up as i go along) Played scrabble though. Ashmole 782?? Look i don't know what the drama is all about with that book.But we're building an army. You can't tell me who to love.Doesn't correspond with Ashmole 782? Look i honestly have no idea what the fuss is with that book.I have to go back to the past with Matthew ❤❤ now anyways.Toodles.Totally a Witch now, Diana (hide spoiler)] Honestly, wouldn't recommend this book to anyone but hey, if architecture, yoga, wine drinking, Oxford and let's be honest here, questionable love stories is something you think you can get behind, then snap this book up.
5582074695	this literally felt like adult twilight … that is HEAVY on the historical fiction. a dark broody vampire male whose pinning over a small weak witch (who naps a lot in 500 pages), but won’t let her love him because he’s big bad vampire (this is the skin of a killer, bella).
2122715330	Buddy reading with Consuelo my July tbr twin.3.5 stars It begins with absence and desire. It begins with blood and fear. It begins with a discovery of witches. To say I hate cliffhanger is an understatement.The major and only problem I have with this book is its slowness and the unnecessary descriptions of things, the author will spend pages describing a building, down to the blocks, like seriously we don’t want that much detail, don’t even get me started on the wine, smell and other lame stuff the author choose to depict, it was okay at first but it got boring fast, I ended up skimming the rest depictions. “Just because something seems impossible doesn’t make it untrue,” Moving on to fun things, I love the originality of the book, the writing style is so cool, its written in both first and third person multiple POV. Diana’s POV is written in first person and the other character’s POV are written in third person POV. The world building is great apart from the said unnecessary depictions. Whoever can no longer wonder, no longer marvel, is as good as dead.’ The plot is amazing, vampires, witches and daemons, anyone with paranormal knowledge knows that these three rarely see eye to eye. So when Diana (a witch) and Mathew(a vampire) started going out, all hell is bound to break loose. It didn’t help that she is a powerful witch that didn’t join any convent nor that he is a 1000+ year old vampire from a powerful sire line.
523693960	Oi, vey, what a snooze fest. This book is 500 pages of pure exposition. NOTHING HAPPENS. The 'climax' of this book is just the two main characters handing out Halloween candy before getting ready to take a trip. Really. That's the climax of the novel. It is the rising action of a better novel, but padded out into 43 chapters of domestic activity. The whole thing reads like the OCD notes of particularly dull stalker. It followes the main characters through every moment of their lives, every yoga class, every glass of wine, every pointless activity to waste time. There's pages and pages of backstory and 'cute' banter and descriptions. It's fluff. It's all pure fluff and filler. There's very little that actually happens in this book, and what does happen is pretty head-bangingly stupid. The 'villains' in this novel read about as nuanced and intelligent as Captain Planet bad guys.The cliches are so overwhelming that they physically hurt me. And tucking in between all the failed worldbuilding, bullshit history, and descriptions of clothes, there's a chuck-ton of misogyny. If you want a detailed description of exactly why this book is so awful, there's a chapter by chapter review on my blog. If you can get through it. Even in summary, it's just so dull.
152643339	Holy Jeebus this was egregiously bad. This deserves a foul: a flagrant foul, a technical foul, crimes against intelligent readers foul --- something. (Basketball is on my mind. Pardon.) I'm wondering how this got published and then marketed as anything but the lowest of romance novels. I couldn't finish it, but was tempted to out of pure schadenfreude --- as in: let's see how bad this can get and then have something to make fun of endlessly. I've been attracted to this vampire/zombie/supernatural trend sweeping middle brow authors right now and have enjoyed some of it (The Magicians, The Radleys, The Passage)but THIS --- ugh, nothing but delayed gratification and cheesiness between a poorly wrought vampire and a shoddily written witch. I somehow thought it would be like reading an A.S. Byatt novel featuring otherwordly protagonists. Oh nooo. I shut the book when it was obvious that this was written to eventually become a low budget cable movie (Lifetime? Hallmark?) Diana, a once independent academic who is also a powerful witch (I know how this sounds. And I should have listened to the little literary siren that goes off in my head at such silly, absurd notions) begins falling in love with Matthew, a potent, academic, GQ -handsome vampire. Then she begins constantly taking orders from him and all he does throughout the whole first half of the novel is protect and coddle her and generally treat her like an invalid child. There is no doubt in my mind this was written for women with Freudian father issues who feel like they need to be protected and "nurtured" by a strong male presence. Total, utter crap.If only this could have been written by Roald Dahl or Madeline L'Engle, or any of those quality fantasy authors I read as a child! I suspect that in different hands, Harkness' world of witches, vampires, and demons would have been more engaging. Sometimes less is more, and reading, in annoying first person narration no less, the most banal details about about a character, his or her routine, and the color and quality of his/her jogging pants/yoga gear, gets unbearably snarled and mired in minutiae.
1718579115	I have always been in two minds as to whether I wanted to read this or not: the reviews were very mixed. Then it became BOTM with the Fantasy and Vampire group, so I was pleased to have an excuse to read it and judge for myself. Until about halfway through I was really enjoying it.There was a lot to like in this book but overall it was swamped by too much detail, too many convoluted happenings, too many new developments towards the end of the book, in preparation for its sequel.Daemons, witches, vampires, knight Templars, alchemy, mystery- all features I appreciated. The book seemed in need of a good edit and to be pared down. Who knows? I may be curious enough to pick up the sequels...but not anytime soon...
159735800	This book was amazing! I loved every minute of it.For my full review visit my blog:http://myguiltyobsession.blogspot.com/
155717845	The old adage of you should never judge a book by its cover comes to mind when I think about A Discovery of Witches. Or maybe that should be amended to read never judge a book by its marketing campaign. While the marketing campaign would have you believe this is a new, unique entry into the fantasy world, the reality is that the novel is nothing more than a badly plotted vampire romance with huge hints of Mary Sue thrown in for good measure. The sad part is that it starts out so well. Diana Bishop is the last descendant of the Bishop family of witches who were at the center of the Salem witch trials. Her parents were two powerful witches (who were killed) and while Diana has denied her heritage, she still can't help but user her powers from time to time. She tries to limit herself only to important things like fixing the washing machine to keep her apartment from flooding. But when she stumbles across an ancient text in her scholarly studies that is brimming with power, Diana suddenly becomes even more on the radar of the supernatural community than ever before.In Deborah Harkness' universe, the supernatural includes witches, vampires and daemons. Before you know it, Diana's life is crawling with people taking an interest in the book and her. One in particular is Matthew, who also happens to be a vampire. At first, Diana is irritated by his apparent interest in her and spurns his advances. But, as I said before, this is a cleverly disguised vampire romance, so it's not long before she's taking an interest in the vampire man. It probably doesn't help that her aunt who raised her and her partner (who is also a witch) strongly disapprove of Matthew. Matthew also smells like cloves, something Diana dwells on lot over the course of the story.It's at this point the book begins to derail completely. The early hook of a powerful supernatural entity denying her powers and heritage all while stumbling across a powerful ancient text quickly gets lost in a book that gives into every bad Mary Sue tendency. Long passages of the book are spent on meals that are shared by Diana and Matthew as well as their mutual love of wine. (There hasn't been this much emphasis placed on wines in a novel since Sideways.) I suppose it shouldn't come as a huge surprise since reading the author's bio, I find she's a wine critic for a blog. If you can plow through all of that (and believe me, you'll have to plow), then we get into Matthew taking Diana to supernatural yoga not once but multiple times in the story, Diana's love of crew and how great it feels to be out on the water and her lamenting on her lack of wardrobe. I often joke that the biggest factor that keeps me from fully embracing Tolkein is his excess in world-building, seemingly describing every leaf of every tree on the journey to Mordor. In the case of Witches, it's almost as if Harkness is trying to create the world by showing us every last single detail of every single day Diana experiences. Instead of feeling like the story is building a fully realized world, the final product comes off as seemingly wish fulfillment and the author barely disguising herself as the main protagonist. It also leads to large chunks of the middle of the book being less than compelling and entertaining. The sad part is that Harkness hides a few revelations in the middle chunk of the book so you can't really skip that section.And then there's the romance with Matthew. This storyline borrows heavily from the Twilight saga. And no, I don't mean that as a compliment. As I've said before, long sections of the story dwell on Matthew's smelling like cloves. The story tries to have Diana resist Matthew in the first pages, but its telegraphed very early these two will fall hopelessly in love. Diana's declarations of love ring false as the story progresses. I'm guessing she just swore off romance in her life until the right vampire came along.If you're a fan of vampire romance, you may eat this up with a spoon. However, the other excesses of the story are so great that I had a hard time overlooking them as well. It all adds up to one of the more profoundly disappointing books I've read in a long, long time. And this is the start of a trilogy of novels. Here's one reader who won't be back for more.
2436850923	“A Discovery of Witches” is Deborah Harkness’s debut novel and tells the story of Diana Bishop, a young scholar and a descendent of witches, who discovers a long-lost and enchanted alchemical manuscript, Ashmole 782, deep in Oxford’s Bodleian Library. The manuscript’s reappearance summons a fantastical underworld full of witches, vampires and daemons, which she navigates with the help of vampire geneticist Matthew Clairmont.PLOTUnfortunately, most of the plot was pretty boring and the story just dragged on quite often. Especially the middle part of the book was super slow and many things were described in way too much detail. But at the end of the novel it was hinted that they’d have to go on a quest soon. That quest is something I would’ve already liked to see in this book because I just felt like most of “A Discovery of Witches” was one big filler to get to the action that wouldn’t happen until the sequel. Something I really liked about this story though were the details about things like alchemy, biology, the history of witches and so on and I felt like you could really see that the author knew what she was talking about. I haven’t really had any touching points with those topics in real life since leaving high school, so I learned quite a lot of things while reading this novel. CHARACTERSThe two main characters are Diana and Matthew. Diana is a witch and Matthew a vampire and I had my problems with both of them at the beginning of the book. During most of the first two thirds of the novel Diana was mostly being kind of dumb, annoying and sometimes even pretty naïve but she then started changing a little towards the end of the book and I started liking her a bit more. The same goes for Matthew though it wasn’t his characteristics that made me dislike him, but the fact that I couldn’t stop thinking about Edward Cullen whenever he made an appearance during the first half of the novel. He was just giving off such strong twilight vibes and I was so scared that wouldn’t change though thankfully it did and now I actually even like him a bit better than Diana. The romance between the two though was once again your typical case of insta-love and while I’ve seen worse cases, that still really disappointed me because I’d hoped to see an interesting love story between the two. But I have to say that I really liked most of the side characters just like Marcus, Sarah or Em and of course Tabitha (Sarah’s cat) whose behavior made me laugh quite a lot. WRITING STYLEDeborah Harkness’s writing style is pretty descriptive and even though it made the story drag on quite a bit, I also really liked getting so much information sometimes. Overall, I would say this book was well written though I think she’s definitely not one of those authors that has a unique writing style you would recognize immediately.OVERALLAll in all, I was a bit disappointed by this novel and it just didn’t meet my expectations. Due to the fact that it dragged on so much, it was a really slow read and I sometimes had to push myself to even continue reading the book. I have to say though that the last 20% of the novel definitely made up a bit for the rest of it and that things got a little more interesting then. There were also certain scenes in the rest of the novel that I really enjoyed and I think the side characters made the novel a lot better than it would’ve been without some of them. So overall, this is a solid 3 stars for me. WILL I CONTINUE THE SERIES?Even though this series won’t be on top of the list of series I still need to complete, I think I’ll definitely still give the second book a try. Like I said, the end of this book made it look like the next book would be a lot more interesting than this one and there’s also the TV show that is coming out later this year and I really don’t like watching an adaptation without having read the books first.instagram || my blog || twitter
258828266	Ashmole 782?★★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I’ll be honest and say it took me several attempts at this one. After failing three times, I just put the audiobook in the car; I figured there I would be a captive audience. I was really beginning to wonder how this book ever received GoodReads’ Romance of the Year Award. However, I ended up loving it and wanting to go out to do my errands just to listen to the story. Eventually, I had my iPod in my ears while I did my grocery shopping. It is wonderful. Yes, I borrowed the Kindle version from my library to reference certain sections; while there is just one plotline going on, it is complicated. While the story is spellbinding, Jennifer Ikeda’s fabulous narration is something I didn’t appreciate until the book started introducing so many international characters. Ms. Ikeda does a great job on all the accents: American, English, Indian, Australian, Scottish, French, Italian . . . I lost count of them all in the 24 hours it took for her to read this novel. When there are multiple people from one dialect, she manages to differentiate their voices, which is no small task. Regardless of a character’s mood or tone, she doesn’t slip. She elevates the whole book, IMHO.I loved Diana and Matthew’s love story! And I loved Diana’s gradual unearthing and acceptance of her heritage after her serendipitous discovery of a palimpsest known as Ashmole 782 among the eleven million rare manuscripts in the Bodleian Library of Oxford University. Can’t wait for July and the next book in the All Souls Trilogy!★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆I was trying to decide if I should listen to this one audio or not. Going to the Brick & Mortar Public Library is a pain, now that I've been spoiled by downloadable audiobooks. Plus, I would have to transfer all those CDs (twenty!) to my iPod/Touch. Then Xe sent me the link to this blog review: The Oddiophile. Some people are just so darn clever! LOL! Thanks Xe!★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆★☆
1352889928	I loved this book and I’m excited to read the second one but I’m also happy that it’s a trilogy cause some books start so good then they prolong it to 10 books and I lose Interest.but this book is so good I love Mathew and Diana dynamic . The story is so different not just like any other vampire stories.
2546295362	⤐ DNF wayyy to late (at 399 pages).I'm so proud of myself. I finally got over myself and dnfed it. From the beginning on I kept thinking 'If this weren't a book club book, I'd have already given up on it.' It only got worse with every chapter so at some point I decided that it's absolutely idiotic of me to want to finish something that's about as inconsequential to me as my favourite Asian restaurant's sushi selection (I deeply detest sushi). It wasn't the worst book I've ever read - it was:- not good enough to hold / ever catch my interest- not bad enough to hate it and at least give me something to rage about in the reviewThe storyline is interesting and definitely original, but the execution puts everybody to shame who says books are a good way to pass your time. This book actually made time go by slower. To conclude, I do not recommend.____________________2 STARS.Definitely a disappointment. It might not even be/have been worth finishing for a variety of reasons.
3391058696	Seeing as I'm spending so much time at home, it's the perfect opportunity to tackle some of them hefty titles on my pile.The first book in the All Souls Trilogy certainly fits that description.Over 700 pages long theres certainly some pacing issues, but I found reading in spells of either 20 minutes or 2 hours that it was easy to get stuck into the plot.Our main protagonist Diana Bishop is a young scholar at Oxford who descends from a long line of witches.The McGuffin is a long lost manuscript that she has discovered in the libary and holds the key to the past for Witches, Demons and Vampires.She attracts the attention of Vampire Matthew Clairmont, who had spent the last 150 years looking for the book known as Ashmole 782.While the relationship between the pair didnt feel entirely original, the slow burn as the traditional vampire and modern day witch chemistry sparked together.But what makes this novel standout is the academical aspect of the university backdrop along with the historical context including Darwin and Evolution.When the plot really hits it's stride, I was happy to overlook the flaws.The last 100 pages flew by to the point that I'll need to get the next volume now!
