568710712	It was a dark and stormy night on the shores of Lake Geneva, 1816. You’ve heard the story before; Lord Byron challenges his friends to see who can come up with the best ghost story. Among the people include Percy Bysshe Shelley, his lover Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, Mary’s stepsister Claire Claremont and Byron’s physician, John William Polidori. Two novels were born that very night; Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley’s (née Godwin) Frankenstein and John William Polidori’s The Vampyre. The evening begat a curse, too. Within a few years of Frankenstein’s publication, nearly all of those involved met untimely deaths.First of all I want to point out that authors of this book Dorothy and Thomas Hoobler don’t actually believe this was a curse. Well at least I hope they don’t, this is a little gimmick to help sell the book and I think they just wanted to explore the interesting fact that they did all die young. This book is purely a biography on Mary Shelley that focuses on the night in 1816 and the novel Frankenstein. I was hoping for something about struggling to write something as great as Frankenstein or how the novel has been destroyed by pop culture.The book starts out with the life of William Godwin and Mary Wollstonecraft, the famous philosopher and feminist parents of Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley. The two had very different personalities and they seemed like a very odd couple but I think they really complemented each other. Sure, they had their problems but nothing like their daughter.This brings us to the bulk of the book, Mary Shelley and the young romantics. These were the original rock stars and their lives, no soap opera will ever come close to the drama and complexity as the real lives of the romantics. I picked up this book to learn about these poets after reading A Treacherous Likeness and I wanted to know more about them. This was a very accessible biography, which focuses primarily on Mary Shelley but it gives you a great insight into her life. I don’t pretend to fully understand the Romantics, they are way to complex but I feel I have a better knowledge into their lives.My interest in the Romantics has gotten stronger thanks to The Monsters by Dorothy and Thomas Hoobler. I have a few other books I plan to finish off in on the topic and I doubt I’ll stop there. I love the quotes and the referencing in this biography; I’ve often found that I wonder about the source of information in biographies that don’t reference so it was so handy to have that reference.While this book does primary focus on Mary, it was nice to learn a little more of Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, Claire Claremont and John William Polidori. I didn’t previously know the story of the original publication of The Vampyre; I found it fascinating and heart breaking for John William Polidori. It is always great to find new stories about these amazing talented people.One thing I liked about this biography, especially after reading A Treacherous Likeness, is the fact that it didn’t try to sway the reader’s opinions; it stuck to facts and left it to the readers to make up their own mind. This was a refreshing change from the opinionated A Treacherous Likeness and I really enjoyed the experience of learning more about these poets. I’m sure there are better biographies on Mary Shelley out there but The Monsters is worth checking out as well.This review originally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2013/...
6811384841	If you hear the name Mary Shelley, you are likely to recognize her as the author of the classic novel about a young scientist bent on creating life where there is none. But when Shelley died, many contemporary news outlets denied her recognition for her work and instead lionized her for being the wife of the poet Percy Byshhe Shelley.The origins of Mary Shelley's novel are in a gathering of her husband, her stepsister, an English doctor bent on becoming a writer, and the "mad, bad, and dangerous to know" poet Lord Byron. Gathered in Switzerland and confined indoors because of weather, Byron set a challenge the five writers to create a story that might terrify them all. The only story that emerged and eventually captured the world's imagination for over two centuries is Frankenstein.In this book, the Hooblers chronicle the path that led to the five meeting and in the process reveal the fascinating lives of all involved. They focus most on Mary Shelley herself. Her life had a tragic beginning, when her mother died within days of her birth, and she weathered a series of terrible events leading up to her husband's death when she was only twenty-four.I have not read a nonfiction book this compelling in a very long time. Lord Byron emerges from the pages in all his glory as the first international celebrity. Percy Byshhe Shelley is revealed to be self-centered and heedless of his loved ones' hearts and lives. Mary Shelley emerges as stalwart in the face of loss after loss and deeply intelligent in a way women of her time rarely get credit for being.The Hooblers have a great talent for recording the mundane (Mary spent hours making "fair copies" of Byron 's poems to be sent to editors and publishers) and the ridiculous (when disturbed by the household chaos created by rising tension between his wife and his lover, Shelley calmed himself down by reading the Stoics). The authors make this story far more readable than one would expect such a book to be
64436775	The Monsters: Mary Shelley and the Curse of Frankenstein by Dorothy and Thomas HobblerNew York: Little, Brown and Company$14.99 (paperback) – 374 pages“I busied myself to think of a story … One which wouldspeak to the mysterious fears of our nature and awakethrilling horror.”- Mary Shelley, Introduction to FrankensteinBack in the 50’s, when I was an English major, I frequently found myself moribund with boredom as I suffered through classroom lectures on the meaning of sonnets, epics and allegories. I slogged through the quagmires of literature, not because Chaucer, Shakespeare, Pope and Milton were boring, but because I was in thrall to teachers who seemed incapable of making literature walk, talk and sing. There were exceptions, of course, but the majority of my guides merely succeeded in convincing me that I was either immune or insensitive to “great literature.”However, when we got to the Romantic poets, not even the best/worst efforts of my instructors could deaden that music. I heard it; we all heard it: the seductive music of Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats. Suddenly, here was a world that was populated by misfits, rebels and (with the exception of Wordsworth) drug addicts. They thumbed their nose at religion and social convention, behaved outrageously and often died young. Even if we didn’t approve of them, they got our attention.Those of us who loved (or were fascinated by) the Romantics have probably heard some version of that magic night when five young people gathered inside the Villa Diodati, a luxurious summerhouse on Lake Geneva in Switzerland to tell ghost stories. It was June 17, 1818, and violent thunderstorms and lightning swept across the lake that night. Illuminated by lightning and flickering candles, the guests attempted to frighten each other with lurid tales of vampires, the resurrected dead and vengeful spirits.All of those present were either gifted, famous and/or notorious: George Gordon Lord Byron, “the most famous man in the world,” whose literary works and sexual exploits had shocked (or fascinated) Europe; Percy Bysshe Shelley, who had abandoned his pregnant wife, Harriet, and eloped with Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin (soon to be Mrs. Shelley); Dr. John Polidori, Bryon’s personal physician and aspiring poet, who was about to lose his lucrative position, and Claire Clarmont, Mary’s step-sister and Byron’s current mistress (she is pregnant with his child). Finally, there is Mary W. Godwin, daughter of London’s renowned, radical and scandalous William and Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, both of whom considered conventional marriage to be “a form of prostitution.”Of all the lurid images and tales evoked that night, only two are destined to survive: Mary’s Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus and Dr. Polidori’s Vampyre – both destined to become world famous (Polidori’s novel will eventually become Bram Stoker’s Dracula.) The gothic tales created by Byron, Shelley and Claire Clarmont did not survive long enough to be published.Dorothy and Thomas Hobbler have undertaken a provocative thesis: to demonstrate that Mary Shelley’s novel is a thinly veiled autobiography. The Hobbler’s contend that the “monster” created by Dr. Frankenstein is Mary Shelley’s alter ego! It is a persuasive argument. Both the author and Dr. Frankenstein’s creation are unloved and outcast. Further, both Mary’s father, William Godwin and her perverse husband, Percy Shelley have much in common with the cruel, remote Dr. Frankenstein who rejected his own creation and sought to destroy it.In addition, the Hobbler’s perceive other parallels between the novel and the lives of all of the original guests at Villa Diadoti. Not only are all of the characters fated to either die prematurely or, like Claire Clarmont, live tragic, obscure lives; they often suffer the loss of their loved ones. In effect, all seem to be victims of a curse that was engendered on the night that Mary Shelley outlined the basic plot of Frankenstein – the tale of a monster that vows to destroy all that his creator holds dear – children, lovers and relatives.The first to die are children. Mary and Percy’s children fall victims to sickness (cholera and or related epidemics). Then, Harriet Westbrook, Shelley’s abandoned wife and Fanny Godwin, William’s oldest daughter, commit suicide. Byron and Claire’s daughter, Allegra, dies in a convent. Dr. Polidori, having lost control of Vampyre and living as a social outcast, commits suicide; Shelley drowns in a boating mishap; Byron joins a Greek struggle for independence, becomes ill and dies tragically – a victim of incompetent doctors.The sole survivor, Mary Shelley, devotes the remainder of her life attempting to reconstruct (or resurrect) her brilliant husband’s life and work. She painstakingly gathers his poems, diaries and letters – all of which she edits and transcribes. There is considerable evidence that Mary destroyed or altered any materials which did not support her vision of Shelley as a brilliant, revolutionary genius. In effect, she “recreated” him.The Monsters is a brilliant, exhaustively researched work. However, I was distressed to find that some of my most cherished images of the Romantics were groundless myths. (Edward Trelawney did not snatch Shelley’s heart from his burning body at the seaside cremation service, nor did Leigh Hunt have it shaped into an amulet that he wore around his neck.) For me, the most distressing evidence in this book is that which dealt with the personal flaws of Percy Bysshe Shelley. The Hobblers’ research reveals him to be an arrogant, thoughtless hedonist whose self-serving behavior led to the deaths of his children (acknowledged and unacknowledged), and the suffering of countless others.In conclusion, the Hobblers provide significant insights into the period that produced the Romantics. It was a period that was preoccupied with the French Revolution and the thrilling ideas of individuality and personal freedom. In addition, Shelley, Byron and Mary Godwin were all fascinated by recent scientific advances – especially experiments with electricity and magnetism – experiments that held an aura of magic about them. These discoveries found their way into Frankenstein. In many ways, they saw themselves as a vanguard - disciples and torch-bearers of a new era of enlightenment in which women would be treated as equals and war would become obsolete. Perhaps they were flawed prophets since that era has not yet arrived.
143867757	This is a facinating account, not just of Mary Shelley but the equally famous and talented people that were part of her life. From her mother, Mary Wollstonecraft (author of A Vindication on the Rights of Women, and often referred to as the first feminist) and her father, William Godwin, (author of Political Justice, athiest, anarchist, philosopher) to her poet husband, Percy Shelley, and his fellow poet, the dark, legendary, and multifaceted Lord George Byron, this book describes the web of their creative, unconventional, and often ill-fated lives. Building up to the legendary "lost summer" renound for its harsh, winterlike weather where Lord Byron first challenged his companions to a horror story contest. From this challenge Mary Shelley's Frankenstein was born. With mini biographies on the five "friends" this book of thruths proves to be stranger than fiction. I highly recommend this book. For a fictionalized, yet extremely accurate portrayal of these people I suggest the novel Passion: A Novel of the Romantic Poets.
38209900	I loved reading this! It was well written and adventurous yet not romantic and distanced itself from Lord Byron and Percy choosing the side of Mary Shelly. I haven't been into non-fiction in a while but I found this book as inspiring as fiction. In fact, it would be difficult to write a story like this and still have it be believable.I learned all sorts of new things and got several new books to read out of it. One of the side characters was Pollidori who wrote a vampire novel which the authors claim was about his oppressive relationship with Lord Byron which makes plenty of sense. also, it rekindled my love for Lord Byron who is another one of those enigmatic characters that are hypocritical and yet passionate that i'm drawn to.This book is also great if you love books. especially if you like to read books about books. to sum up: this is a well written book about books and writing and creativity and the monsters that live with them.
78054542	As I just wrote to Grossi, I picked up a galley of this book at work several years ago and promptly forgot all about it, until I unearthed it last week in a fit of pre-Thanksgiving housecleaning (it is very important to rearrange your bookshelves before any major holiday). I opened it at random to some spot in the middle and couldn't stop reading, so I read the last half first and had to go back to the beginning to finish. The Da Vinci Code of Shelley biographies.
7211348581	It is on SIGHT when I see literally ANY man in MWS life my GOD
238863228	When I was a kid, the first big novel I tried to read was Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein"...a story about a benevolent monster, cobbled together from various parts, just trying to fit in. The book was too big for me when I was ten but years later I tackled it again.What was the appeal of a book written so long ago (1816) by the 19-year-old (she was actually younger when she started it.) Perhaps the authors of "The Monsters" sum it up best: "Feeling unloved, misunderstood, unjustly rejected are universal human experiences. Who has not felt the desire to be loved for ourselves alone? Who has not also thought that if we could show our true selves to the world, if we could only make people understand us, the result would be acceptance and affection?...Children in particular seem to love the monster...Mary's creature –– clumsy, unable to express himself, constantly getting into trouble —— was made to feel unloved first of all by the person who created him. To children, he is a kindred spirit. To young Mary Godwin [later Shelley] a motherless child, a heart-broken girl whose persona was molded and stitched together by men of cold and selfish genius, such an unloved being was found not just on the pages of her book, but in the mirror."Are we not all creatures cobbled together from the parts of two other people? Don't we all at times feel alone, misfits. "The Monsters: Mary Shelley and the Curse of Frankenstein" is the story of the creation of the novel on a dark and stormy night and the trio of writers: Mary Shelley, Percy Shelley and Lord Byron plus their extended families that were there for the creation of one of the world's most memorable characters. Yes, Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein" is a story about blind ambition and science pushed beyond its limits, but it's so much more.
244133939	The Monsters is a fascinating and compelling look at the circumstances under which Mary Shelley wrote Frankenstein. It destroyed my view of Romantic poetry though! According to the authors (and the book appears to be very well documented indeed), Romantic poets (at least Byron and Shelly) were complete scoundrels.Monsters suffers from Too-Much-Research Syndrome, IMO, or maybe I'm just not a big fan of non-fiction that isn't narrative. I want a story arc, and I want the story to start fast (yes, I'm a typical 21st Century reader in that way). But the story about the novel Frankenstein doesn't start until P. 127 -- before it begins, we're treated to exhaustive descriptions of the life history of every significant character in the book. The information is fascinating, and the book is well worth reading, even if you have to push yourself through it. But the authors would have done well to study how to write fiction, and to have written Monsters more as a story than a scholarly study.At least, if they wanted to attract THIS reader. I checked out their website, and they have several more books about fascinating topics (like Jamestown and the theft of the Mona Lisa from Louvre). But under the assumption that they are written in a similar research-intensive way, I think I'll pass.
10268476	I'm 1/3 of the way through, and it's been scandal after scandal so far. Mary and Percy were some crazy kids.****Engaging, well-written, and very, very sad. It's like E! True Hollywood story for the 19th century, and has the same addictive qualities. Will Mary and Percy reconcile? Will Claire's baby survive? Will Byron's body image issues be his downfall? Find out after the break. Reading it and then revisiting Frankenstein was a good idea.
4171952774	Wow that’s a well written account of the Shelley and Byron saga.
49826351	I love the history of famous writers... the book wasn't bad but it dragged toward the end..
5900864059	Literary biographies tend to be hit-or-miss, and The Monsters is definitely the former. I knew the cliff's notes version of Mary Shelley's life, a little about her radical parents, and perhaps a little more about how her story was entwined with that of Percy Shelley and Lord Byron. I knew it wasn't the sort of story you'd call happy, but I had only the barest understanding of just how destructive their lives were. While I want to be careful not to rush headlong into biographical fallacy, it does seem reasonable to assume, as the Hooblers assert, that Mary put much of herself into her Monster, and just as much of her father and her husband into Victor Frankenstein (arguably the true monster of the novel). There is so much more that could be said, but I'll conclude with Galway Kinnell's poem "Shelley"--it expresses the heartbreak of their lives much more succinctly than I could. When I was twenty the one truefree spirit I had heard of was Shelley,Shelley, who wrote tracts advocatingatheism, free love, the emancipationof women, the abolition of wealth and class,and poems on the bliss of romantic love,Shelley, who, I learned later, perhapsalmost too late, remarried Harriet,then pregnant with their second child,and a few months later ran off with Mary,already pregnant herself, bringingwith them Mary's stepsister Claire,who very likely also became his lover,and in this malaise á trois, which Shelleyhad imagined would be "a paradise of exiles,"they lived, along with the spectre of Harriet,who drowned herself in the Serpentine,and of Mary's half sister Fanny,who killed herself, maybe for unrequitedlove of Shelley, and with the spiritsof adored but often neglectedchildren conceived incidentallyin the pursuit of Eros—Harriet'sIanthe and Charles, denied to Shelleyand consigned to foster parents; Mary'sClara, dead at one; her Willmouse,Shelley's favorite, dead at three; Elena,the baby in Naples, almost surelyShelley's own, whom he "adopted"and then left behind, dead at one and a half;Allegra, Claire's daughter by Byron,whom Byron sent off to the conventat Bagnacavallo at four, dead at five—and in those days, before I knewany of this, I thought I followed Shelley,who thought he was following radiant desire.
7321010456	If you read this, and conclude the monsters the Hooblers are writing about are limited to Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, or John Polidori's Vampire, you should read it again. You can add poets Percy Shelley and Lord Byron to the list, as well as Mary Shelley's father and, ultimately Mary Shelley herself, although it takes the authors a couple of hundred pages before even they admit it.The plot involves how Mary Shelley came to write "Frankenstein," but along the way readers are given an insight to the dynamics of social relations among England's 18th and 19th century upper classes. It's not flattering. In the hands of the Hooblers, who use plenty of reputable sources, Percy Shelley and George Gordon (Lord) Byron come off as entitled, overindulged, oversexed, self-absorbed, eccentric, and all and all not terribly practical. They also appear to be really bad at managing money; constantly short of cash, but never short of creditors. Mary Shelley, a host of other women and a legion of men who encircle the two men are either bit players or hangers on as Shelley and Byron drift and flit through time. The real strength of the work is how Mary Shelley takes up the challenge Byron issues to his house guests in the summer of 1816 to write a ghost story. The Hooblers do a masterful job of showing how she constructs the story of Victor Frankenstein and his monster. Then they deconstruct each character, explaining how Mary took her own life experiences, complemented by her impressive powers of observation, to breathe life into them. Just as Victor Frankenstein built his monster by assembling parts and pieces taken from the dead, Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein" seems uncomfortably close to those who were alive.That's bad news for fans of Shelley and Byron.
8014440006	I think this is a fascinating book. I already knew the gist of Mary Shelley's life, but this book filled in a lot of details I had never known, as well as going fairly deeply into the lives of Percy Shelley, Lord Byron, and the other people that orbited their little group. There are also chapters dedicated to Mary's parents. I knew very little about Mary Wollstonecraft other than that she wrote A Vindication on the Rights of Woman, and nothing at all about William Godwin. So I appreciated those early chapters, though at first I was a little disappointed that we weren't getting straight to Mary Shelley.There are parts of this book that are a little dry, but overall I think the authors did an excellent job of chronicling the romantic, tragic, and often ridiculous lives of these free thinkers of the early nineteenth century. Their antics are almost more entertaining than the fictions they wrote (though the book makes the convincing argument that a lot of their fiction was inspired by their lives and experiences, which is true of many writers). And that's taking into account that many of their most scandalous thoughts (as told through journal entries and letters) have been destroyed or sanitized by family members who wanted to present them as more respectable than perhaps they were. So we can only read between the lines to understand what was really going on, and even then the picture can be shocking given the mores of the day.
7570974061	I decided to read this because the true story is so wild. Frankenstein is considered the first sci-fi novel, and it happened to have been written by a teenage girl during a very strange cold summer. Another of her companions that summer wrote what turned out to be the first vampire story, and also there were two very famous poets (Percy Shelley and Lord Byron), and now you've got a fascinating story coming together.The "curse" part of this book's intriguing title is what makes it occasionally a difficult read. Beyond the very fun literary challenge that our main characters took on that summer (which led to Frankenstein being constructed), everything they touched seemed to fall apart. There are personal tragedies, the death of children, and all-around stupidity like forcing your family to move in the middle of a heatwave for no particular reason.The other part of this intriguing title, which also comes through in the book, is that Hoobler kind of hates these people. You might, too, by the time you get to the end and wonder why they couldn't just talk about how they feel. They're enormously self-centered and petty, doing typical rich people things like summering in beautiful faraway locales while perpetually wondering how they can get more.Hoobler has certainly done the research, and includes in here many pertinent poems and excerpts of letters. Overall, it feels like a sober look at the lives led after a very famous and mythologized summer's events.
7210876580	My all time favorite book is Frankenstein, so reading about its creator and how it came about was a treat. I knew about the challenge between these kids but had no more knowledge beyond that. What a fascinating read!!!! The research done here based on writings and letters was brilliant! They well document the lives of Mary Shelley along with her parents, one of the first women’s rights advocates, Mary Wollstonecraft and her eccentric father William Godwin. The. Percy Shelley, her husband, Lord Byron and poor Polidori show wrote the first vampire novel and based it off Lord Byron. These were incredibly young people living the original bohemian, artsy lifestyle. Driven by passion, poetry, philosophy and art. There are so many references to how Frankenstein came about and how utterly personal that story is for Mary. Her short life was filled with so much tragedy. How each one of these people’s lives ended so untimely and tragic. I loved every minute of this
2061108966	Shocked there are no reviews of this book! If you want a well balanced entertaining account of the romantic poets Byron and Shelley and their affairs mistresses and illegitimate offspring this is the best written and funniest around. The central focus is on Mary Shelley as she is the only really sympathetic actor in the cesspool of egotism and near insanity. Shelly comes off as a complete nut and I'm not sure this isn't the most balanced record of the poet. Byron has been infamous since his own lifetime but this telling makes him funnier and more real despite his lack of common humanity. His mistress and Mary's half-sister Claire gets in depth treatment as never before and her portrait is as hilarious and believable as the others. Strong personalities, bitter resentments abound and the authors do not seem to be exaggerating. I can't imagine a better book to set the record straight on these people and the genesis of Frankenstein as a bonus. Get a used copy read it and love it!
3594488925	An enjoyable and fascinating read. I wasn't expecting too much from this, though I couldn't tell you why - maybe just because the authors aren't historians by trade? But the pace is lively and the portraits of their various subjects are thoughtful and rich. The Monsters strikes a good balance between breadth and depth. It considers its subjects from multiple angles - their own journals and letters, descriptions by contemporaries, their fiction, and the wider cultural context of their times - and does so with fine historical and psychological insight. I appreciated that the Hooblers let their subjects speak for themselves whenever possible, quoting liberally from their writing but still keeping the narrative zipping along. I thought I knew a fair bit about Mary Shelley, but I learned a lot about her and her contemporaries by reading this. Great pick for October.
2553635079	An interesting look at the summer of 1816 when a group of young writers and thinkers met and were challenged to write a ghost story. We know quite a bit about one of those books, Frankenstein, but I was surprised to learn that the modern vampire also came out of this summer. Reading about Polidori, Lord Byron's personal doctor, created the modern vampire, based on Lord Byron. Before the vampire was a peasant who would prey on a village until killed. Polidori, possibly using a story Byron began, created the aristocratic, sexually charged male vampire. This was one of those little bits of information I'd never known before. That and Polidori was the uncle to the Rossetti family.If you want a quick biography of Mary and Percy Shelley this is a fantastic book.
5057726862	This book was a slough for me. I've been reading it since last October...and finally put my head down and pummeled through it. Certain chapters were very interesting to me, while others were chewy and quite boring actually. If you're a diehard fan of Mary Shelley, it's worth a read. If not, don't bother.
2513194502	The way a biography should be written.The way Hoobler tells the story of Shelley's life makes nothing about it seem bound by history or the way we think about Frankenstein today. It's just the story of a group of people defined by who they were at a certain age, the same as you or me. I think that's the way any biography should be written.
8092557665	Once I finished reading Frankenstein I immediately wanted to learn more about the person who had written, in my opinion, the most perfect story…Mary Shelley. This biography was wonderfully written and incredibly informative. I feel that I truly know who Mary Shelley was in life.
3465789635	I heard the author interviewed on the radio and put the book on my reading list. The story of the creation of the Frankenstein monster is interesting and the people involved led unusual lives, but I found I was forcing myself to read it. I can't really say why I gave up on it I just did.
1284283419	The Shelleys and Lord Byron in a dark and stormy night, daring one another to write a scary story. I never knew who else was there, what stories were written other than Frankenstein, what their liaisons and fates brought. I love books that throw light in all the things I never knew I never knew.
6982163514	I have just re read Frankenstein for my church book club. I discover this book by accident. It help understand Mary Shelley's life and work better. She should be credit for Percy Shelley's and Lord Bryon's fame. She help keeping both poets work from disappearing from history.
2578588748	Reading this book added greatly to my appreciation of my recent rereading of Frankenstein. It is filled with information about Mary Shelley and her family and friends. The author ties Mary's life experiences and her family dynamics into the story of Frankenstein and his monster.
7738846170	This is a very interesting book if you want to know more about Mary Shelley. However, if you are like myself and despise Byron and Percy Shelley and want to know less about them this book is not it.
6631897617	lots of detail
5059593413	Never knew the dark history behind the writing of Frankenstein. I dunno what’s scarier… the novel or the life of the novelist
6260712872	Very interesting, though at times I felt like I was reading a Riverdale episode.
2418066580	3.5 stars. If you read Romantic Outlaws, then there's no need to read this one. They're pretty much the same thing.
2993008713	These people are so fascinating. It didn’t need the dumb subtitle part about a “curse” that obviously is just a shallow attention grabber. Super fun to read otherwise.
7582908215	Exciting romp through the life of Mary Shelley, full of trials and struggles to fit into a society she loathed.
6982621253	Completely fascinating and informative.
1959933465	Why is every book about Mary Shelley secretly just a biography of Lord Byron?
4354924732	Story of Mary Shelley and cohorts and where Frankenstein originated. Truly an incredible writer that was led astray by Lord Byron.
3040797252	This book made me want to be Mary Shelley. I could write an ode to her. Ive re read this book like three times and I plan on reading it again soon. One of my favorites of all time.
220223869	This is perhaps the best biography I have ever read. It's almost novelesque in the brilliancy of its storytelling. The book is about the complex web of relationships between Mary Shelley, her not yet husband, Percy Bysche Shelley, and George Gordon Lord Byron. Threaded into this are Mary's step-sister (the mother of one of Byron's children) and a dozen or so other literary and philosophical figures of the time. The narrative, somehow without loosing focus or momentum, takes us back into the lives of the poets' parentage, including a close up look at Mary's parents, Mary Wollstonecraft and William Godwin, who were important figures in their time. In doing so, we are allowed an opportunity to understand just how their aims at a marriage free society and equal rights for women affected Mary as a child and molded her into the woman who would run away with a poet and write a horror classic.In fact the Frankenstein was the result of a dare issued by Byron himself. After a night of ghost stories and stormy weather, in which Percy Shelley was reduced to screams and tears and fist of terror (Mary's breasts were staring at him), Byron proposed that they each, along with his personal physician (and what else?) construct a horror story of their own. Byron started, but did not finish. As did Percy. Polidori began the first tentative passages that would one day become "The Vampyre" the model by which Bram Stoker and Stephanie Myer would one day fashion their vampires. The young and apparently inconsequential Mary had nothing, however, until a dream, several days later inspired the birth of Frankenstein's monster. Hers was the only story to be finished as a direct result of the dare, and, as we know, she became a formidable literary figure in her own right. As for "The Vampyre", it was published many years later, and only as a result of Polidori's bitterness toward Byron, in which the great poet is resembled in the key figure.This book is so full of language and atmosphere, it really deserves a star place on my shelf. Though I am not a student of the Romantics or of the Regency era, it is, nevertheless, a fascinating peek into the lives of a few kindred souls who, for a time, steered that ship. I recommend this book to anyone interested in the era or the Romantic movement, or in the poets and authors themselves, or...well...anyone really who likes to hear a good story well told. And it's all true. You couldn't make up fiction this extraordinary.
904663970	A well-written, well-researched, and fascinating true account of the people who were present on that dark and stormy night in 1816 when Frankenstein was conceived in the fertile mind of young Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley. As portrayed in the book, Mary was surrounded by a collection of the most self-absorbed egomaniacs imaginable: Lord Byron (an arrogant, albeit brilliant, slob), Percy Shelley (frankly, an effeminate creep), her father (an intellectual who tried to convince the world that it owed him a living. When that failed, he begged money from Percy Shelley), and her half-sister Claire Clairmont (self-centered and in love with Byron).Instigating the events that eventually lead to a night of ghost stories in a villa on the shores of Lake Geneva, is Mary's sister, star-struck Claire. With single-minded purpose she stalks Byron even to his bed, and when she gets pregnant, she tries to make him marry her. Of course he has no intention of becoming a husband, and his treatment of the beautiful daughter that results is nothing if not torturously sad. The lone sympathetic character is Dr. John Polidori, Byron's personal physician - and a victim of his cruelty and ridicule. Polidori then writes the first vampire story, basing his character on - who else?- Lord Byron.The book gets a 4 instead of a 5 b/c the parts describing the content of Frankenstein the book are far too long - like Mary, the authors had to pad out their story to make it book-length.
587463184	A very well-done study of the life of Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, and the lives of the four others who were with her on the infamous ghost-story night at the Villa Diodati in 1816: Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, John Polidori and Claire Clairmont. The book examines the events and relationships -- and the many personal tragedies and betrayals -- that inspired their work. The authors support their narrative and emotional analysis of the players with copious quotations from their letters and journals, which makes it all the more galling to discover how much has been lost -- Byron's entire autobiography was burned after his death, for example!The affairs of Percy Shelley, and the emotional wreckage he behind him in his pursuit of higher goals (literary, aesthetic, and radical) make a strong case against marrying a poet if one longs for stability and monogamy. Byron, of course, hardly performed better, but strangely the most positive relationship in this book is the friendship between him and Mary.I would recommend those interested in this book also read Polidori's accounts of his European travels, with and without Byron. For my part, I'm going to seek out both Mary Shelley's and her mother Mary Wollstonecraft's travelogues to read next.
541196704	I was a little worried when I bought this book, which had been recommended by a friend, that the writers might delve into the more salacious aspects of these writers/poets...and there was a good lot of room for that with Byron being a factor, but it was very factually presented. It's fascinating to see the buildup to the narrative of Frankenstein. The authors did an excellent job of weaving together the history to show how Mary's creation evolved. Her parents and her relationship with them. Her many losses of children. Her relationship with others. They did a really thorough platform for the influence of her life in Frankenstein.I'm not a scholar so I can't speak to its historical authenticity, but I was convinced by this...and I'd love to see similar books that delve into the "why" and "how" great classic literature came to be.While I highlighted a ton of this book, I thought this was one of the more interesting quotes:Victor Frankenstein realizes that the creature is his doppelgänger--an insight that seems to have extended to readers and audiences, for today the name "Frankenstein" is popularly applied not only to the creator, but to the monster, who is never named in the book.
132728148	First, I have to say that Kate Beaton's comic inspired me to read this (I LOVE KATE BEATON!!). Second, I'm generally not a big fan of the work of the Romantic poets. So melodramatic. So frilly. I have a marginal appreciation for Percy Bysshe Shelley's poetry, and little patience for Byron and Keats. However, reading about the lives of the Romantics is quite another story. The decadence! Scandals! Eating disorders! Hysteria! Bastard children! Suicide! Incest! (Wow, the English aristocracy are really into their half-siblings). Entertaining stuff. The authors depict Lord Byron and Percy Shelley as gigantic assholes and are sympathetic to the women in Byron and Shelley's lives (as well as John Polidori whom Byron treated like garbage). As the subtitle indicates, the book is primarily a biography of the long-suffering Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley and the men who dominated her life - her husband and her father, William Godwin. The authors analyze Frankenstein while considering its historical context as well. Read it in one day. A very enjoyable read indeed.
1508915791	Monsters. The creation of fiction, the work of man, the slap of deity? We are all monsters in some respect. I've always been intrigued with the 'Haunted Summer of 1816'; a world of volcanic winter and the gathering of the Romantic poets and (dare I say) muses by the shore of Lake Geneva. This book told much the same story as all the other books have told when speaking of the creation of Frankenstein, and the whirlwind of events surrounding the occupants and visitors of Villa Diodati. The difference this time was I, the reader....Having spent many a night reading Byron and Shelley while I was in my late teens/early twenties I built up (like so many others) an immense admiration for both their verse, prose, and even their storied lives. (After all truth is stranger than fiction.) How differently do these 'Romantics' lives read to me now. At 42 I see them as appalling reprobates in regard to their treatment of their families, wives, and children. These guys were really horrible people. That being said they were brilliant in their monstrosity.
127555823	Wow. People lived scandalously even in the Romantic period! This book introduces the reader to the famous back story of how Frankenstein was written. The lives of Mary Shelly, her family, her husband Percy Shelly, and their friends Lord Byron and Polidori (Byron's doctor) are explained in rather good detail, revealing secrets about them all, and their motivations that are never mentioned in any English classes I've heard of. I love the way the authors linked events from Mary Shelly's life to her inspiration for her greatest novel and even to certain aspects of the novel such as places and events depicted in the novel.This was a great book and I recommend it to anyone interested in the histories of authors, or in the romantic age itself. The book can easily serve as a short biography of any of the characters I mentioned and a few more. It has very interesting information about everyone including Lord Byron and Percy Shelly's relationship as well as their lives as described by their friends, their lovers, and even themselves.
117726862	This biography focuses chiefly on Mary Shelley, and the influences in her life. Her mother, Mary Wollstonecraft, her father William Godwin, and the whole Villa Diodati crew, husband Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, Claire Clairmont, and John Polidori. Compassionate, insightful, and more than a little biased, I found this depiction of "The Greatest Generation of English poets" to be both fun and heartbreaking, just like the people it's about. Anyone who is interested in the origin of Frankenstein or vampire literature should check it out.
1815242001	"...they were all monsters." The perfect ending to an outstanding book on the writers and the psychology behind the works of the 'Diodati Circle.'
1246971647	As a history, The Monsters shows some bias, and the ending a bit contrived, but it is abundantly researched and a rollicking read. Mary Wollestonecraft Shelley and her circle comes alive on the page, and the book connects her life and private writings to the development of her nameless monster. Percy Shelley and Lord Byron get a harsh but not scandalous treatment here, which I think after almost 200 years may be well-deserved. The Hooblers place Frankenstein in its Romantic and Gothic milieu, while at the same time drawing some conclusions as to why the story is timeless. I enjoyed every page of this book.
928653614	*3.5 starsA more appropriate title would be The Monsters: Mary Shelley and Her Circle of Famous Regency Poet Friends Being Really Shitty to Everyone. Fascinating subject matter, especially seeing how all the influences in Mary Shelley's life lead to the creation of Dr Frankenstein and his Monster. The book drags a bit in the middle when the authors decide to Cliff-Note the *HELL* out of Frankenstein and you get the feeling while reading the book that the authors are staring snidely down their noses at the reader. Excellent read for fans of (Gothic) horror, biographies of literary figures or those interested in the Regency Era.
544599106	It's been a few years since I read this one, so I cannot say much about it now except that I enjoyed it immensely.I just picked up what may be a companion volume: "Frankenstein, A Cultural History," by Susan Tyler Hitchcock. That's what made me think of "The Monsters" this evening. But I think "The Monsters" is mostly biographical. It's about the lives of Mary Shelley, Percy Shelley, Lord Byron, and Polidori (author of an early vampire story). There's little discussion of the development of the Frankenstein myth in popular culture. The Hitchcock book promises to be broader in scope.
52513975	I have read this book for my Comp II class. It really wasn't as good as I thought it would be, yet it's still interesting enough to keep reading. Our final for school will be an essay over this book, so I got some more studying on it to do. I think it's interesting how it was written so long ago and yet I can still understand what's going on, and it was nothing like the movies.I think I did put the wrong book up there, but I got a 100% on my final essay over Frankenstein. I was mixed up because the book covers are the same.
631462275	A fantastically researched and engaging look at the authors responsible for the creation of Frankenstein and our modern-day take on Dracula. The actual piece about the writing of these tales is fairly minimal but the intertwining of the lives of this incredible group of authors is remarkable. These characters we think we know in Victorian England will be forever changed in my mind. Their genius was never in doubt but after this you will question the real monsters and which authors REALLY created monsters.
1361159226	Although not what I was expecting, this book proved to be very good. I thought it was a fiction telling of the authors adventures during the writing of their books, but it is more a historical look at the authors and their intimate lives with each other and their works. It is very well written and a very good read. If you want to know more about the legend of Frankenstein and the vampire and how they came into being I would recommend this book. If you want to know more about Mary Shelley and Dr. Palidori who are the creators of these creatures, I would recommend this book.
165126648	This was fascinating to me. I must say there was much I did not know about Mary W. Shelley, author of Frankenstein, her life's challenges, and her intimates--Godwin (her father), Shelley(husband), and even Lord Byron (dear friend). Seriously scandalous stuff, and yet pathetic. I know I'll never look at Percy Shelley the same way again, but I loved what I learned of Mary Shelley; she had an amazing strength and talent. She lived a lifetime in her first 26 years and changed the world forever with her most famous and first novel, written when she was a teenager.
166809782	Fascinating and entrancing and depressing. In the end these literary heroes looks like selfish teens battered by terrible loss and strangeness. Mary Shelley comes out looking the best - and her story of developing Frankenstein and then almost living it out is eerie. I read this in Venice Italy where many of the final scenes a set - we even drove by viareggio, where Shelley's body was found... Ooohhhhhh.....
49138790	I picked up this book thinking it was historical fiction. I was surprised to find that it was a history of a fascinating woman, Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley as well as the people in her life. I recommend this book very much for any who are interested in the life of a writer. I will say that I wished for more of the flavor of the time. I understood the people very well due to the writing but I didn't feel the setting.
29190699	I loved this book, it not only covers the genisis of the story Frankenstein but also the history and lives of those that were gathered at Lake Geneva that summer. It details the tragedies that destroyed the lives of all who were a part of Lord Byron's challenge. At no point does this book become tedious or boring but it is always drawing you further into the lives of those involved.
422708705	This is a solid group biography of the relationship between Mary Shelley, her (eventual) husband the poet Percy Shelley, and the scandalous Lord Byron. It was like reading about 18th century rock stars. The analysis of how Mary Shelley used her unusual life experiences to come up with Frankenstein was well thought-out and convincing. Perfect reading for the Halloween season.
344671947	Excellent even if though I disagree with some details. I loved it. It sets up how Frankenstein came into being, gives a good overview of the Mary Godwin's family and her relationship to Shelley who really co-authored the novel, and is more to his writing and taste than Mary Godwin Shelley. But for lovers of Frankenstein, I highly recommend this book.
451560585	a bit of a slow starter (there is a lot of backstory to tell, in order to set up the central event clearly) but by the time it gets rolling it becomes a page turner.Tragic, Despairing and soaked in Gothic Misery.A must read if you enjoyed Ken Russel's Gothic or Frankenstein, for that matter.
419197261	Though dark in nature, this book reveals many intricacies in the lives of Mary and Percy Shelley as well as the people they loved and idolized. It's amazing how controversial life in the early 19th century could be. I recommend this to bibliophiles and people who have an innate curiosity to find out what pushes certain writers to write what they write.
114367984	A well-researched biography of Mary Shelley and those who surrounded her, from her famous parents to her husband and her circle of friends. Includes useful information and connections to elements of Frankenstein.
128805596	A biography of Mary W. Shelley and all those who influenced her life and her writing of the novel Frankenstien. It is very well done, and doesn't read as a typical biography. It added tons of depth to my knowledge and enjoyment of Frankenstien.
103018791	This is a very informative read for those who seek to know more about the backstory. The notes at the end of the book are almost as interesting as the book, and provide the basis for truth in the story. It's a fascinating book if you're interested.
983276163	I enjoy literary biographies, and having just taught "Frankenstein" to high schoolers this past year, this biography is especially interesting. It will give me much to discuss with students when I teach it again.
1240419135	Using the creation of Frankenstein and the precursor of Dracula as its centre this book describes the lives of Percy Shelley, Mary Shelley , Byron and their circle and their contribution, contrasting their ideals with the darker parts of their lives.
96714251	Who isn't fascinated by Mary Shelly? Married to a poet we all had to study, but she is the one whose book everyone knows...Frankenstein. Written when she was nineteen, it parallels her own tragic life. The Monsters tells us much more about Byron and Shelly than we learned in school. Good read.
23271053	** spoiler alert ** Loved this! It's such a detailed and interesting biography. Very gripping, very devastating, but lovely and real. Loved how everything unraveled, even though the story of all their lives is dark and tragic.
22453108	Fascinating book. Mary Shelley revealed as Frankenstein's monster with both father Godwin and husband Shelley sharing the role of Frankenstein. Highly recommended.
102471779	Academic read about Mary Shelley's influences in writing Frankenstein. So far it is about her parents.
40384306	Not the best overview of the Shelley's I have read.
