3577026969	WHAT.THE.HECK.WAS.THAT.ENDING. The second Scholomance book is everything you would want after the first one, except it's darker and more delicious. Except, the ending will leave you in pieces. Note. I grew up with the generation who waited a year for the next book, after watching beloved characters fall into hell in The Mark of Athena. This was worse. (If you like, come hang out with me on booktube: https://www.youtube.com/@UnfortunateA...)Pre-publication: Reading the first book in a series the day it comes out might be all fun and good until you realise that means you have exactly the maximum possible waiting time before the sequel. I regret nothing I think There isn't even a publishing date yet.Update: We have a page-count! (Too short, anything would be too short...) We have a synopsis! (Too vague, What will that message mean for El and Orion?) We have a publishing date (Much too far away, but hey, a girl's gotta have something to live for.)
4305167672	S T U P I D.I'm giving this 1 STAR for that ending I don't care how petty I'm being...The only reason I picked this one up straight after the first one was because of the cliffhanger and here we have yet another fucking cliffhanger- it's the way I'm being played right now!!!! 😡I still don't know what this series is about and what is happening 60% of the time and yet I still had a good time. But apparently I'm only here for a good time and not a long time because that ending.....STUPID!!!!!Anyways this was good so 4 STARS.Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
3953369385	In this captivating sequel to the series, Hogwarts intertwines with the haunting atmosphere of Deadly Class, evoking the ominous transformation of Anakin Skywalker into Darth Vader. The action-packed narrative, steeped in darkness and laced with biting sarcasm, ensnares the reader from the outset, leaving them yearning for more. The relentless pace and witty banter of El, coupled with her evolving character as she grapples with her growing power and a complex love story with Orion, create an immersive and entertaining reading experience.The intricate world-building, heart-stopping adventures, and balanced pace of the book are complemented by El’s evolving character and the intriguing love triangle with Orion. Notably, her mother’s letter to her, intended to warm her feelings for Orion, fails to deter El from her attraction, highlighting the complexities of familial bonds and the struggle to resist temptation.As the series progresses, the focus shifts to the characters’ future prospects after their harrowing survival during the final year of Scholomance. The possibilities for their lives beyond the confines of the wizarding world are left open to interpretation, raising questions about their potential paths and the challenges they may face.Without revealing further details, I must emphasize the jaw-dropping and emotionally charged conclusion of the book. It is a testament to the author’s skill that the reader is left with a sense of both awe and trepidation, prompting an outburst of exclamations and a fervent plea for the release of the third installment.In recognition of the exceptional quality of this book, I award it five stars, a testament to its magical world-building, clever plotlines, mind-blowing revelations, and the overwhelming sense of joy and fulfillment it brings.I extend my sincere gratitude to NetGalley and Random House Publishing Group/Ballantine/Del Rey for providing me with an advance copy of this highly anticipated book in exchange for my honest and unbiased review.
3731157104	On sale now! I can't even say how much I loved this book ... okay, maybe except for the jaw-dropping ending. But STILL! If you've read the first book, definitely read this one, even if you weren't so excited by A Deadly Education. If you haven't, read both!! Here's my full review, first posted on FantasyLiterature.com:The Last Graduate completely sucked me in from start to finish! Galadriel has managed to survive three years at her deadly magical school, the Scholomance, with her junior year capped by an epic battle against a fearsome assembly of maleficaria (magical creatures that feast on wizards, especially youthful ones), as related in the first book in this fantasy series, A Deadly Education. Now El is in her last year at the Scholomance and has achieved her goal of becoming part of an alliance of fellow students (albeit a very small, less powerful one) who will protect each other when they run the gauntlet of ravenous mals that line the hallway leading to the graduation exit. And Orion Lake, the best mal-killer in the school, has progressed from mere annoyance to occasionally still aggravating but valued friend. Which makes it difficult when El’s clairvoyant mother sends her an urgent message to keep far away from Orion.Even more upsetting for El is that now the Scholomance seems to have her personally in its cross-hairs. Instead of working toward graduation, she’s spending most of her time fighting mals that all seem to be focused exclusively on eating her, and perhaps the group of brand-new, hapless freshmen that the school has inexplicably thrown El in with in one of her classes.I opened the door expecting to find something really horrible inside, and I did: eight freshmen, all of whom turned and stared at me like a herd of small and especially pitiful deer about to be mown down by a massive lorry. There wasn’t so much as a sophomore among the lot. “You’ve got to be joking,” I said with revulsion …El is in a constant battle against her innate affinity for massively destructive and violent spells, and the Scholomance seems to be pushing her to make selfish choices, saving her mana or magical power for her own needs instead of helping random freshmen who mean nothing to her. But as El battles the mals and her own dark nature in order to save herself and her friends and yes, random freshmen, the scope of her concern for others starts to grow, leading to changes that are unprecedented in Scholomance history.I initially had trouble getting into the first book, A Deadly Education. At first El was very prickly and sulky, a difficult main character to like, and there was a lot of info-dumping as Naomi Novik introduced us to the unique world and culture of the Scholomance. But by the end of that book I was fully on board with her character and anxious to see what happened next. And it didn’t disappoint, at all, in fact, The Last Graduate was far more than I expected.Everything that gave me hesitation about the first book has been resolved. Novik is fantastic when she’s on (Spinning Silver is still one of my favorite fantasies ever), and she definitely is here. There are game-changers afoot in the pages of The Last Graduate. El and her classmates are led step by excruciating step toward a greater purpose than simply surviving and getting out of the Scholomance alive. I don’t think inspiring is too strong of a word.The Scholomance has always had an international student body, and Novik better fleshes out the diversity in this second novel, with students from different cultures and races playing more significant roles. She also delves more deeply into themes of (often unexamined) privilege and how that affects choices and options. Along the way there are also some great moments of friendship, as El (still sensitive and snappish) grows closer to her classmates, especially the members of her alliance, and gradually learns that it’s okay to rely on others.“Stop it!” she said. “I think that’s like the third time you’ve asked to be ditched. You’re like one of those puffer fish, the second anyone touches you a little wrong you go all bwoomp,” she illustrated with her hands, “trying to make them let go. We’ll let you know, how’s that?”There are also some intriguing new characters, like Liesel, the abrasive, ruthless and utterly brilliant class valedictorian (“If you’re wondering how Liesel came into our discussions, so were the rest of us, but she was both impervious to hints that she wasn’t wanted, and also hideously smart, so we hadn’t actually been able to chase her from the planning”).I’ll admit to a few qualms about the efficacy of the plan El and her class came up with in the end; it’ll be interesting to see how that plays out in the upcoming conclusion of this trilogy. And THAT ENDING. I hate to complain when the rest of the book was SO good, but really it is one of the most jaw-dropping cliffhangers I’ve ever seen. I would suggest that if you’re strongly averse to cliffhangers, you could wait to read this book until the next one comes out … but I wouldn’t want anyone to delay the sheer excitement and fun of The Last Graduate. It has been one of 2021’s reading highlights for me: one of the most exhilarating, delightful and moving books I’ve read this year. Every page was truly a pleasure. Well, except maybe the last one. :)Previous update: So my daughter (hi, Emily! *waves*) found out I had the NetGalley ARC of this book a few days ago. She loved the first book, A Deadly Education, even more than I did, so she came home from college for a couple of days, mostly I think to borrow my iPad so she could read this ARC. I told her (a) I loved it, and (b) it has a killer cliffhanger ending. Last night I was on my laptop and she was in the same room reading this, and all of a sudden around midnight I hear this "AAAARRGH!!!" from the other side of the couch. *Cue evil laughter from me* She loved it. And the ending kills. And that's all we need to say for now, except you DEFINITELY should read this series if you have any interest in something sort of Harry Potterish, except with way more carnivorous monsters.I received an advance copy of this book for review. SO MANY THANKS to the publisher!Content notes: Gruesome carnivorous monsters, scattered F-bombs and a mildly explicit sex scene.
3635025448	Something feels so intensely nostalgic about this series. It’s a significantly darker interpretation of the magic school trope, which might be a contributor. But I think it’s the series’ ability to deliver the satisfaction and exhilaration that I’ve been craving, a feeling that I associate with novels I read when I was younger and got addicted to every book I read.The Last Graduate finds a perfect balance between dark cynicism and a new feeling of hope and warmth that is surprising but not out of place. El is a wonderfully sardonic main character with an internal monologue that never gets old. Her anger and fiery wit, along with the nonstop action and satisfyingly effortless writing, made me speed through this book. The magic system is so contained; it’s gratifying to read something that’s creative without making me stretch my imagination to visualize. This is becoming one of my favorite fantasy series. 5 stars
4180273667	Well, I can pretty confidently say that if you loved Deadly Education, you're probably going to enjoy The Last Graduate just as much!We once again join El as she battles against the monsters of the Scholomance while trying to construct a plan to Graduate the school alive, with the help of Orion and the rest of her allies.Once again, I related to El deeply throughout this book and I truly adore her as a character. I love that the heroine of this series is a defensive, angry teenage girl battling against an affinity to dark magic and the things in her past that have caused her to close herself off. I once again, also adored Orion - especially as he is the antithesis of El with his big sunshine himbo energy.Sadly though, this book once again hit at a middle of the road 3 stars for me, because while I love the characters, setting and plot of this series, even tearing up slightly towards the end, I can't get past how much I dislike the writing style of these books.While a conversational writing style is not my favourite, it's something I can generally get on board with. However the combination of that and the endless cutaway exposition really ruins this series for me.So essentially, 5 stars for character, setting and plot - 1 star for writingBut I am pretty confident that no matter your opinions on book 1 in this series, you'll pretty much feel the same about book 2 so if you loved Deadly Education, you're in for a treat!
5813507076	I wasn’t really sure what to expect going into the middle book of The Scholomance series. But as soon as I had read a chapter or so of The Last Graduate, I knew I was in trouble because work, social obligations, all that humdrum jazz etc. was gonna get in the way of gobbling this book up faster than a maw-mouth on a rampage. I have finally finished this masterpiece, and I’m shook, exhilarated, thrilled and slightly dazed. I’m not even exaggerating. I’d interpret that as if you enjoyed A Deadly Education, you’re likely to enjoy this one even more.Things get even wilder than they did in book one while retaining the same razor-sharp, snark-infused narration of alleged dark sorceress, Galadriel Higgins, plus immersive, cut-away exposition and world-building (you’ll either love or hate it), clever parallels to real-life in class and privilege, a gorgeous diverse cast full of authentic culture and languages, and a whole lot more of Orion, Aadhya & Liu. Beyond that, The Last Graduate was a surprisingly lot more emotional read for me than A Deadly Education. I really cared about El’s character growth, her relationships, and her choices. The book really builds up to one of the biggest crescendos I’ve ever experienced and I’m so darn relieved I don’t have to wait for the third book to come out to find out what happens because I would not know how to cope.My heartfelt thanks to NetGalley, Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine, Del Rey and author Naomi Novik for the opportunity to read this work in exchange for an honest review.1. A Deadly Education ★★★★★2. The Last Graduate ★★★★★3. The Golden Enclaves ★★★★☆-------I'm in my made too many requests on NG and had a flood of approvals and need to catch up phase. Thanks to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine, Del Rey for the DRC, looking forward to this one after recently having finished A Deadly Education.
4260949998	feeling: dead insidei just love El so much and her character development in this book was great. She’s so funny but she also really cares for the people in her life even though she pretends not to, even Orion. she’s so strong because even though she has the prophecy she doesn’t let that stop her. I loved the side characters and everyone coming together. AND THAT CLIFFHANGER?? cant wait to see my besties again next year.
4281576439	Keep far away from Orion Lake.The Last Graduate, the second book of the Scholomance series, picks up from this cliffhanger with all the brilliance of the first book - and more! The book follows El through her last year at the Scholomance as her friends (yes, she realizes she has friends!), and she try to rescue every student from the world's maleficaria until the very last graduate. El's character growth is considerable in this book, always listening to her conscience and driving the story forward - her bubble of 'us' grows from one to three to dozens to hundreds, her sarcasm and impertinence notwithstanding. Orion's character arc provides a great complement to El's as he finally finds himself looking beyond just fighting mals and cares about something for himself.The world-building is well done, especially as we hear it from El's snarky point of view. We find out more about how this world works along with the magic system. The Scholomance itself is finally seen as an individual entity with (artificial or natural) intelligence as it 'protects all the wise-gifted children of the world'. It actively prods El and the other students towards definite plans and conclusions, even driving the story at certain points. Novik's masterful writing interspaces the story with world-building as well as character growth. Many secondary characters are given time and space to grow and overcome the politics of the outside world, some even proving we can't truly know what people would rise to do in a crisis. It was wonderful to see many people take the reins on different projects and working together in the end. The book, on the whole, makes for a great second part of the series and ends with a cliffhanger (of course) for the third and final book!Thanks to NetGalley and the Random House Publishing group for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟[One star for the premise and the whole book; One star for the characters; One star for the writing; One star for the story; One star for the world-building - Five stars in total.]Overall, a definite recommendation to pick up this series!Scholomance #1: A Deadly Education ReviewScholomance #3: The Golden Enclaves Review
4345818786	I really am surprised by how much I’ve enjoyed this series. 🤗 Very dark wizard world with crazy creatures and scary obstacles to overcome. 🤓 If you’re into Harry Potter, this would be a good one to pick up.
3971743752	There are so many exceptional characters here but I hope we all know Precious is the real MVP.
4262183313	Addicting and vicious, The Last Graduate proved to be much more than just another magical school story. It can be a hit or miss because of the writing style, which is different from the usual YA. I would say this book is in between YA and NA territories. I also enjoyed every minute reading it.The Last Graduate picks up from the same second Deadly Education had ended. The story continues with no time passing in between, after all, school starts right after induction. There are no breaks in the Schoolomance. The stakes in this book are much higher and what starts as alliance planning for graduation, evolves to be well, suffice to say on a much grander scale than that. I've been having a problem lately. I'm not in a slump but also books that make me avoid doing anything else, even scrolling through that cancerous Instagram explore, are rare. I didn't want anyone to talk to me while I was reading this book nor any distractions whatsoever, it was that gripping. Let's start by addressing the pink elephant in the room. We all know the backlash Novik got from the Last Graduate. Many tried defending her and saying there was no racism or unfair remarks but I digress.. There were lots of stereotypes and unacceptable comments. Novik acknowledged her error and I believe in second chances. While it wasn't enough for me to change my rating of the first book, I also wanted to give this book a second chance. Naomi Novik made most of it.Instead of focusing on the differences between cultures and traditions, she tackled a very important and prevalent subject in all societies: privilege. If you've read the first book, you already know that enclave kids always have considerably higher chances of surviving and graduating first and later on in life. They have their future guaranteed after school just because they were born into the right family. They are better prepared as freshmen and always get better supplies from the seniors. They stick together. Were they from the New York enclave, Shanghai, London, or any other enclave across the world, they all help each other within their respective enclaves. Most students would do anything to secure a seat after graduating in an enclave especially the top ones. But the losers, the nobodies, have to secure alliances and work harder in everything, was it at studying or simply gathering mana. This book focused a lot more on this theme and I believe Novik did a good job exploring the relationships between enclave kids and everyone else, how they are so used to get it's difficult for them to give but also, that doesn't mean they all are bad. Not at all.I don't pretend to understand how every spell worked because I was too busy turning the page to know what happens next. The book was a page-turner and could be easily read in one or two sittings. Sure, we didn't have a lot happening all the time but the way Naomi wrote this book makes it fast-paced. They were few dull moments and instead, I wanted to know what plan they'll come with and how that will turn out.I also liked El in this book, her character witnessed a considerable development since book 1. She had built a thick shell around being a loner all those years but now finally, she's trying to let people in. Or at least accept their friendships. As for the romance, I honestly didn't see it coming in book 1. I had no idea Orion was the love interest until late into the book. I loved their relationship in the Last Graduate and how it progressed. They make a good couple and Orion (I just wish he had a different name) is such a sweet and selfless person. We discover more about him as a person in this book because Novik is evil, let me leave it at that. Do we have sexual content? This isn't a spoiler for the book but only for this point (view spoiler)[we had a somewhat explicit sex scene, not naming of body parts and such but it was definitely more explicit than the usual ones in YA. I personally didn't mind it at all, I found it well done but PG13. (hide spoiler)]I'll end by saying that this trilogy is proving to be highly entertaining. This book was definitely the best YA release I've read in a while and that was published after 2018. Magic schools aren't the most innovative plotlines but I love them anyway. In this case, Novik took it and made it her own. It's pretty different from your average book in this genre and totally worth a read.
4241945421	Have you read the first in this series...Deadly Education? If not, you should because it is FANTASTIC. This is the second book in the series and it's maybe not quite as good as the first (which is pretty standard for a middle book in a series) but definitely worthwhile. Now to wait impatiently for the next...
3585044689	The book of pure thaumaturgic bliss, mana and everafters!What character dev!!!!! I feel like I've never seen more dev to happen (OK, I probably have but that's how I felt after reading it!)Even places grow brains, balls and all kinds of conscience here! Which is just to show how awesomely developed everyone and everything get!!!!! This is gonna be forevermore known as the book where Patience (view spoiler)[ate (hide spoiler)] Fortitude!Q:As a general rule, regardless of the specific situation in which you find yourself, at every step you must take care to preserve or widen the number of your options. (c) This, I want to engrave me somewhere!What a grad scene! (Galadri)el and Orion?????!!!!! Now, that's the kind of graduation to behold!The lovely lovelies:Q:When I cast spells, there are usually copious side manifestations, generally designed to convey to anyone watching that they should probably be fleeing in terror or alternatively dropping to their knees and doing homage. (c)Q:The thing is, I’m not actually unique in the history of wizard society; not even Orion is, really. We’re both once-in-a-generation talents, but those happen, as you might have guessed, once in a generation. It is a bit of a coincidence that we’re in school at the same time, and that we’re both fairly extreme examples. (c)The quotes of generation that should generate a cult following:Q: I could almost have felt sorry for Jermaine, who’d worn the expression of a person trying to have an important conversation with a brick wall. (c)Q:But my own main concern is how to avoid accidentally sucking the life force out of everyone around me if I ever get taken by surprise and instinctively fire off something really gargantuan. For instance, I’ve got this great spell for razing an entire city to the ground, which will certainly come in handy if I ever turn into one of those people who write furious letters to the editor about the architecture of Cardiff, and I suppose it would do to wipe out any mals on the same floor as me. Along with all the other people on the same floor as me, but they’d probably be dead by then, since I’d have drained their mana to cast the spell. (c)Q:Most of the religious or spiritual people I know—and to be fair, they’re mostly the sort of people who land in a vaguely pagan commune in Wales, or else they’re terrified wizard kids crammed into a school that’s trying to kill them—regularly beseech a benevolent and loving all-wise deity to provide them with useful advice through the medium of miraculous signs and portents. Speaking as my mother’s daughter, I can say with authority that they wouldn’t like it if they got it. You don’t want mysterious unexplained advice from someone you know has your best interests at heart and whose judgment is unerringly right and just and true. Either they’ll tell you to do what you want to do anyway, in which case you didn’t need their advice, or they’ll tell you to do the opposite, in which case you’ll have to choose between sullenly following their advice, like a little kid who has been forced to brush her teeth and go to bed at a reasonable hour, or ignoring it and grimly carrying on, all the while knowing that your course of action is guaranteed to lead you straight to pain and dismay. (c)Q:“After you’ve been doing whatever you’re doing that is not dating but totally looks like dating to everyone else, for only two months.” (c)Q:“To be fair, you’re the only person I’ve ever met who’d come up with the idea of being wildly rude and hostile to the guy who saved your life twenty times,” (c)Q:Oh, who am I lying to? My supply of grace wouldn’t overflow an acorn cap. (c)Q:When I cast spells, there are usually copious side manifestations, generally designed to convey to anyone watching that they should probably be fleeing in terror or alternatively dropping to their knees and doing homage. (c) Nice to know there's a wonderfully OCD-ish streak to Galadriel's affinity!Q:I’m reasonably sure that’s because there’s some violation of balance being redressed on our backs. Dad nobly walks into a maw-mouth for an eternity of pain to save me and Mum; she gives out too much healing for free; I end up with an affinity for violence and mass destruction. The year before that, twelve maleficers murdered the entire senior class, so a hero who would save hundreds of kids in school got conceived. The moral physics of the principle of balance: equal and opposite reactions totting up on both sides. (c)Q:They were all delightedly hoping to give me exactly the post-Scholomance life I’d dreamed of for years. The bastards. (c)Q:Chloe had once told me with a perfectly straight face that Orion didn’t want anything except to kill mals, which was absolute bollocks, but it was the kind of absolute bollocks that I’m certain everyone around him his entire life had so strongly encouraged that it had got lodged in his own head. (c)Q:“Half the time he can’t recognize me unless I’m with you. He pretends to when I say hi to him in shop, but every time his brain goes into this panicky loop like who is she oh no I’m supposed to know her oh no I’m failing at human. And it’s not just me, he does it to everyone. He could probably tell you every last mal he’s killed in the entire time he’s been at school, but us human beings all get filed under the generic category of future potential rescue. I don’t know why he can see you, I think it’s because you’re some crazy super-maleficer in waiting. (c) Aspy much?Q:“No, you aardvark, (c)Q:My inner being is exceptionally cranky and I often don’t want her company myself... (c)Q:Either she was ambitious or she loved languages madly or maybe she was just a tremendous masochist, I had no idea. (c)Q:Artifice is fundamentally about giving the universe a long and complicated story complete with attractive props in order to coax it to accommodate your wishes. I’m really more about shouting the universe into compliance with mine. (c)Q:I did try saying things like, “I won’t bite,” only I said it while seething, so the message that actually got conveyed was that biting would be mild by comparison with whatever I would do instead. And of course they believed me. (c)Q:I wasn’t clear on whether it counted as him using the freshmen as bait if they were the ones staking themselves out. (c)Q:No one would ever in ten thousand years have imagined that if someone tried to kill me in the gym, I’d respond by rebuilding the gym fantasia and creating a fresh torment for everyone in the school, including myself. I certainly wouldn’t have imagined it. (c)Q:If I do make it out of here, I should look up the Dominus of Shanghai. He’s the only other living person who’s ever done it. We could compare notes. Or we could look each other in the face and just start screaming together, which feels more appropriate to me. (c)Q:I don’t think my appearance was reassuring. I emerged trailing clouds of dark-green smoke flickering phosphorescent with crackles of lightning, the dwindling remnants of the hurricane I’d whipped up to dissolve the shambling army of frozen-mud-things. There was also the large ring of glowing orange-purple balefire spheres orbiting round my waist. The workings all fizzled out as I came through the doors, but they hung in the air just long enough to make a fashion statement of the behold your dark goddess variety, and anyway I’d been standing there just short of the threshold for five minutes, siccing spheres and thunderbolts on strategic targets to clear a way to the doors. (c)Q:basically all twenty-seven girls of our group trudged off to the showers together. It was almost time for Orion to harvest the amphisbaena for Liesel; the juveniles had stopped coming through with the water a week ago or so and now were just hissing and banging impotently at us from inside the showerheads like the steam pipes had gone mad. There was one moment when the wall cracked around one of the showerheads and the amphisbaena inside started to thrash around wildly to try and finish breaking out, but it was just an amphisbaena, so the girl using the shower didn’t even stop rinsing her hair, she just grabbed a long enchanted stiletto-knife out of her bathroom bag and stabbed it into the opening. The showerhead stopped moving around. It would be unpleasant if the dead amphisbaena started rotting in there, but probably the others would eat it before that happened. (c) Nice. I'm sorta proud of these kids growing up. __________________________________Dd Dec 5, 2020. Yes! I want this one right now. (A bit sad I read the 1st one without waiting for the whole series being out there ready for me :) )I expect it to be 5-star worthy. The rating is subject to changing on the basis of m getting my hands on the actual book whenever it gets published.Dd 15 June 2021: Hmmmm..... I want it yesterday.... Where is my time machine?
4263097057	I don't know how to feel? Believe me, no one is more disappointed than I am about this rating. Considering I gave the first one five stars this makes me so sad. I absolutely love this concept, this world, and these characters but this second book was a slog. Part of the reason the first one worked is because we were all discovering The Scholomance together and learning our about characters AND they were working toward a mutual goal together. What made this second installment not work is that it was the exact same thing. It was hundreds more pages of them working towards getting through their graduation and fighting the Mals in the basement (which spoiler alert was basically what they did in the first book). I just felt like we were constantly just doing different tasks that were going to help in the last scene of the book and I was just bored. What works for a first book, doesn't work for a second. We needed expansion, a different conflict, and more plot movement and that's not what we got. The last 50 pages of this book saved it. We finally saw some progress in El and Orian's relationship and the cliffhanger at the end does make me somewhat interested in the last book but I definitely feel like the plot wavered in this one. Nothing makes me more sad than writing a bad review for an anticipated sequel.
4058711651	4.5 I’m-dying-from-that-cliffhanger starsThere's no other way to put this review, so I'm starting off right with a one-two punch: The Last Graduate was 50% a slow-burn sophomore setup, and 50% an active, amazing plot with the cliffhanger to end all cliffhangers. Writing: ★★★★Character relationships: ★★★★★Pacing: ★★World building #2: ★★★★Where to start?? I guess I'm going to attempt to be completely spoiler free this time around... Because of that, here's a vague synopsis of the first book, A Deadly Education:El, a powerful "evil" wizard who is prophesized to bring the doom of the wizarding world, attends the deadliest school you could ever conceptualize: The Scholomance. It's a never-ending haunted house—with deadly stakes—and El's lack of connections and rage-filled chip on her shoulder left her in a pickle. That and the fact that the Scholomance, which is sentient and supposed to provide each student with schoolwork tailored to their unique abilities, keeps trying to give El supervolcano spells of mass destruction whenever she asks for help cleaning her dirty dorm room. We should probably mention that El was raised by the kindest hippie witch trope in the world, so El's trying her best to NOT be the next Evil One to End All Things. But anyway... Some things happen. As El is the Evil One, she also interacts with her class's version of the Chosen One with...interesting results that I (totally and utterly) went completely fangirl over. She makes some alliances, some things happen... the vague synopsis peters out here. In this book, The Last Graduate, El and her classmates are now seniors. With the graduation ceremony historically being a bloodbath of epic proportions—they have to fight their way out of a monster pit at the base of the school, full-on gladiator/Hunger Games style—they've got a lot of training and preparation to do. But things this year are different. And their plans are about to be radically changed... and not from the source that they're expecting. That's all. I'm not going to ruin it!I will fully admit to being very bored for the first half of this novel. In fact, this book had me questioning my love of the first one! Because it was so much slower, not overly much happened right away, and Noviks' already extremely meandering and overly descriptive writing took center stage and tried to bore me from my beloved characters. But I loved El, and I loved her situation and her friends, so I kept going. And that paid off BIG TIME. The last half of the novel recovered from its slump and ended in a truly dramatic and over-the-top way that made me just lose my mind. I'm upset we've got to wait until September 2022 for our next one! (But will gladly wait, with popcorn, for the finale. It's going to be epic.)Blog | Instagram
5201475868	Wow - the plot of this second book in the series, didn't go where I'd expected! A nice surprise. And that ending!! Good thing the third book is out so I can get my hands on it!
4741338153	La historia continúa posterior a esa oración final, tan controversial, enviada por la mamá de Galadriel.Después de ese final, solo queria saber que pasaba a continuación. Si bien tanto Galadriel como Orion siguen en la Escolomancia; la autora nos continúa entregando descripciones del funcionamiento de este lugar, por lo que en un comienzo puede tornarse un tanto tediosa la lectura. Entre los escasos diálogos que existen y mediante los pensamientos de nuestra protagonista vamos viendo su evolución, aunque sigue manteniendo su humor sarcástico, sin embargo, comienza a relacionarse con más personas e intentando ayudar a todos, independientemente si le cae bien, mal o si en el pasado fueron hirientes con ella. Admito que me encanta e identifica la personalidad de Galadriel, sus pensamientos pesimistas y el poder decir lo que piensa sin filtros, aunque eso no siempre tenga buenos resultados.Por el contrario, en el caso de Orion vamos conociendo respecto a su historia de vida junto a sus padres y enclave (parte de su niñez y adolescencia previos a llegar a la Escolomancia) , sus motivaciones, metas y, además, podemos comprender el porqué de su fascinación por matar monstruos. Demás esta decir que me encanta la manera en que Orion y Galadriel (El) comienzan a ser más cercanos, cómo comienza a construirse su relación; en donde El siente la necesidad de protegerlo, y bueno otros sucesos más que surgen a medida que avanzamos en la historia. La autora maneja de manera magistral el desarrollo de la trama; exhibiendonos el conflicto que emerge en la Escolomancia y que decir del desenlace de este, es brutal cómo todas las piezas de la historia comienzan a encajar. Ahh!! Y de nuevo nos deja con ese final, que me ha hecho sufrir y necesitar el tercer libro ahora ya!!
3622801187	TW: gore & body horrorI didn’t enjoy this quite as much as the first installment but it did start to pick up more by the end. It definitely has some middle book syndrome. I continue to enjoy the world building in this series but that’s mainly all the first half was. But it does set up some interesting things for the final book. Warning: this book ends in a massive cliff hanger!
3763014014	I really can't overstate this: I love this book. I loved the one preceding it, too, but I REALLY loved this book.Why?Because it was fun all the way down to the deepest levels, with all the eldritch horrors clawing their way into the school, with only a reasonable expectation of 1 in 4 kids making it out alive.Because it had all the magical charm of Hogwarts without any of the sappy sweet. It was a fight and die with every last bit of your strength, casting the most deadly, mana-consuming spells non-stop whether you're trying to sleep, go to the restroom, trying to eat monster-infested slop, or trying to read in a library that had books that could eat you -- or consume your soul.So wait, these books are horror? Action? With so much blood and gore slopping down the gymnasium that you can reasonably expect to go on a date AFTER killing hell-worms, and have a picnic in the fleshy ruins?Well, yes. But it's also TRAINING. Magic use calls the evil. Puberty is when the magic comes strong and when the highest death count happens among the youth. The school DOES make the survival rate BETTER. Nominally. In a walled-off dimension of its own, surrounded by shivering horrors in the void. :)Suffice to say, this next book takes the next step and shows us what GRADUATION is all about, with some surprising twists, an absolutely jaw-dropping action sequence, and an end that made me scream and want to throw the book across the room.Ahem. Am I slightly upset? Maybe. But that doesn't diminish my utter enjoyment. Easily one of the best fantasies I've read this year.
3975022866	Literally I won't say anything other than what the fuck
3752536343	This book is for you if… you have good taste in books. ⤐ Additionally.Do you think you’re funny, Naomi? (Yes, your writing is hilarious.) Do you think I enjoy suffering through 400 glorious pages of amazingness for you to serve me with the cliffhanger of the year? (If you are the cause, yes, absolutely.) Just WHO do you think you are? (A great writer? – Also yes.)You are hurting me, do you understand? I AM IN PAIN.It’s been a while since I’ve read The Last Graduate but as you can see, I remember all the feelings I had after finishing this vividly. I am livid at Naomi for writing such a good book that ends in the biggest cliffhanger. I am so angry I want to destroy something.Deep breaths, Nat, deep breaths. Ok. Phew. Please, Naomi, pleeeaaase … hurry up publishing the next book, will you?Honestly, I love this series. I usually don’t enjoy a writing style that contains a lot of text and little dialogue, by comparison. Naomi, however, gives this series the little something.that it needs. She creates vivid characters that you can't help but love - especially our favourite grump El. El wields sarcasm better than Gandalf the White wields his cane, so forgive me if I'm ABSOLUTELY ECSTATIC ABOUT THIS SEQUEL.⤐ What’s happening. ‘I’m not some sort of pallid romantic who insists on being loved for my shining inner being. My inner being is exceptionally cranky and I often don’t want her company myself.’ spoiler alert : Yes, El is exactly that great. I adore her._____________________4 STARS. Would stay up beyond my typical hours to finish it. I found some minor details I didn't like, agree with or lacked in some kind but overall, this was enjoyable and extraordinary.
4274684968	[6.99/10]When I read A Deadly Education I was quite favourable towards the info-dumping, but in this book I felt like it really brought the pacing to a grinding halt, over and over again. It was certainly a deliberate choice to continue writing this series this way and not one that I am wholly on board with. I think it can be excused a little in book one as there was a lot to learn about this world and magic system, but I don’t think we get anything especially new from it in this book. Oftentimes we rehash the same world-rules over and over and it starts to feel more like a wanky-flex than anything else. I guess this is what a lot of folk felt with the first book that didn’t register for me back then? However, this is a difficult book to rate because whilst the writing, pacing and structure decisions are, at best, perplexing, the characters are often so damn lovable that they overshadow any issues I have with how this book is technically executed. When Novik allows the characters room to breathe and focuses on the dialogue of a scene or character beats integral to the plot, it is really excellent. And, I don’t think those moments are too few and far between for me to completely discount them.This ended up being a high 3 stars, so high in fact that it was only one point away from being a 4 star. It does feel a bit odd to give something 3 stars when there were so many elements that I enjoyed immensely, but I’m finding the writing style harder to forgive this time around. Add to that a plot that, oftentimes, read like a semi-recycled book 1 plot and I’m just not sure if wading through all of that info-dumping was completely worth the effort, which made the cliffhanger ending feel kind of like a punishment rather than a wow moment. So a huge yay for the characters and dialogue, but a sad nay for everything else, unfortunately.
6383277163	4.5 stars! Wow that ending! So glad I have the next book ready to go, I can't imagine if I had to wait for the third book to be released!The Last Graduate is the second book in the Scholomance series, picking up right where book one left off. El has been warned by her mother to stay away from her friend (and possibly something more) Orion. El has bigger things on her mind, like trying to make it through the deadly event that is graduation. I won't say much else plot-wise, but I had a really fun time reading this book. I do think Novik can get a little bit tedious with the spellcasting bits and the schooling parts, but she's very good at world-building and that's essentially what that all was. Novik has never been one to make characters I really like in the past, but this series is different. I love El as an unlikable female heroine and her journey surviving in this school but also discovering things she didn't know about herself. I'm very excited to see what happens in the next book
3621193273	I held out and waited to read this for as long as I could because I knew I’d want the next book right away, and boy was I right. That cliffhanger was BRUTAL! If this series doesn’t have a happy ending I’ll just be sending my therapy bill straight to Naomi Novik herself, thank you very much.Going into this book I did wonder if it would suffer from second book syndrome, but it definitely didn’t. Which I’m sure is a result of Naomi Novik actually taking the time to not only plan out all the novels in a series, but also writing them all at once (more or less).I really don’t have any major criticism of this book. The pacing was great, and did an amazing job of balancing the plot and the romance. World-building was stellar. Paragraphs and plots that may seem like world-building that’s ultimately meaningless at the time, in the end actually act as fantastic foreshadowing or red-hearings. El is an awesome protagonist, and I love seeing a powerful and dark female character that has agency and doesn’t exist inside a vacuum. Once again I loved El’s dynamic and genuine friendship with Aad and Liu. El and Orion are so freaking cute together and their interactions and romance are the best! I love Orion and El’s grumpy-sunshine dynamic. Especially since El is the grumpy and Orion is the sunshine. Often in M/F relationships the girl is always the happy one and guy is always down. It’s refreshing to see it not only swapped, but written so well. When it comes to great female friendships and compelling chemistry-filled romance in the fantasy genre, no one does it better than Naomi Novik.I still love the writing style even though I can admit it may not be for everyone. That cliffhanger at the end was brutal, and I need the next book in the series as soon as possible. This trilogy has such a refreshing spin on what seems so typical on paper. If you’re bored of the usual way young adult fantasy is written and want something new and darker, then definitely give this trilogy a shot.
3653979019	Dark sorceress gf lovable himbo bf!!!!!Wasn’t expecting the romance, but definitely not complaining 😏This is one of the first fantasy books I’ve read where the teenagers actually act like teenagers. I loved El and Orion’s characters as well as all of the side characters.The setting is as unique as always, but the plot meandered a little.
3881941467	4.5 starsLike A Deadly Education, this book is a ton of fun, makes many decisions I admire, and has me impatient for the next in the series! I didn’t have quite as intense an experience with this volume as the first, which is not unexpected, but my love for the series is undiminished.Note: Mild SPOILERS for A Deadly Education below; spoilers for this book are hidden.This book picks up right where the last left off, at the beginning of El’s senior year at the dreaded Scholomance. Don’t let the beginning fool you though: the focus has shifted and the story moved on since the last book. It’s an astute decision: El has friends now (though she doesn’t always know how to talk to them), she’s made a firm decision not to do evil even if it costs her her life, and both she and the reader are used to random monsters leaping out of the woodwork to eat her (less of a problem anyway when you have allies). So this book needs a new source of tension, and gets one, as El has to fight for the people and ideals she cares about.So the first several chapters are downright mellow compared to the first book; it still winds up being an intense ride, though with very different stakes. There’s a bit of a superhero story here, not typically my genre but one I do enjoy on the odd occasion there’s a character I can relate to. It goes almost without saying that El continues awesome, with her mixture of prickliness and idealism and snark. Maybe because this book’s events felt less horrifying, I actually found it funnier than the first and laughed out loud several times. Among other things, El finally comes into her own magically and her using spells meant to be dastardly to save people is always a good time.The themes of this series have always been pointed, with big issues of exploitation and cooperation vs. competition. I see this trilogy as a thinly veiled critique of capitalism, wrapped up in a world where wizards are kept anxious about their physical, rather than economic, security. But I love that it never gets simplistic, that it focuses on the system rather than the people, that over two books we have no character approximating a villain. Occasionally people do awful things, but anyone who sticks around more than a scene or two turns out to be just a person, making decisions based on their own place in a larger and brutal system, but often willing to help others despite all their training to be cutthroat.Other good stuff: more development of all the secondary characters from the first book, especially Aadhya, Liu, and Orion. (Especially Orion, though he has perhaps less page time here. More on him beneath the cut, but suffice it to say that the things about him that seemed off to me in the first book, which I put down to YA writing, were not writing flaws but clues.) This series was never particularly YA despite being about teens at the boarding school from hell, and it feels even less so now. It addresses timely issues while mixing realism with hope. And it’s very compelling writing—although in this volume, in a couple places I thought the exposition ran too long—and paves the way for a really killer conclusion. Admittedly, with quite a cliffhanger ending!Various fannish commentary, including a lot of little stuff and some spoilers for this book, below the cut!(view spoiler)[1) I think there’s at least a 50% chance that that cliffhanger will be resolved within the first page of the next book. I doubt Novik is going for the level of tragedy that would result from never resolving it, and there’s so much to see and do out in the rest of the wizarding world in just one book without a drawn-out rescue plotline.2) My guess is that the Powers That Be in the enclaves will not be happy with the kids’ solution, which could reduce their own power significantly. My hope is that Novik can continue to focus the conflict on the system producing this inequality, rather than personifying it with a villain or cabal behind the monster infestation. Because the next step has to be stopping wizards from creating these things to begin with.3) Orion! In the first book, I didn’t quite buy El’s interpretation of his behavior, because I read him as the captain of the football team, and “I’ve never had friends because while everyone loves me, it’s only for my incredible talents and not for me,” said no one, ever. But he’s not the captain of the football team. He’s a weird kid who has spent his entire life obsessed with killing monsters, and only killing monsters, and he’s only at this school because it offers him so many opportunities to kill monsters. He’s the only kid to have lived for years in the Scholomance and picked up no trauma; not even the relatively sheltered other enclave kids can say that. He pretty clearly doesn’t want a world without monsters, though he doesn’t seem to want to take safety away from everyone else either. Social bonds aren’t a need for him like they are for other people.Something is missing there, to the point that I’m seeing two possibilities: a) he’s not actually a person, but a hyper-realistic construct of some sort, or b) magic has messed with his psychology in a serious way. Since he’s the love interest, I’m guessing b). But I think we’re supposed to be having doubts about Orion. El thinks she’s meant to be evil, but taking a step back: it’s Orion who gets power and enjoyment only from killing. It’s Orion who can’t control his anger. It’s Orion who has actually killed another person, on purpose. He’s just done it all in a socially acceptable way, comes from a respected family and has a laid-back personality, so nobody ever questions him.4) A lot of the secondary characters in this book were great fun. Liesel is kind of awful, but also kind of great (though I have some doubts about her make-people-like-me strategy, which while appropriately calculating, seems like it would get her labeled a suck-up). I just can’t hate Magnus the way El does, and I liked Alfie too. Chloe is a sweetheart. Ibrahim turned surprisingly cute.5) Aadhya feels slightly like a TV best friend, but I really liked the scene where she points out to El that a) sticking it to The Man is not a life plan, and b) you don’t have to be a saint to be a decent person. Although El ignored it all, I think it’s important to say in a fantasy novel, to recognize that the heroism depicted can’t be most people’s measure of morality. It was also a nice surprise to see El react to Orion’s over-the-top love declaration like a real person.6) Last book, I assumed El was forced to limit her magic use because the only thing she was good at was actual evil. Turns out, it was only because she had to hoard mana. And now she doesn’t!7) I love how the book subtly shows how smart and hardworking a student El is, in a way that feels authentic. This is an area of fiction where many have tried and few have succeeded, but you can see it in the way El describes her schoolwork, without the book ever pointing a giant sign at it. At the same time, tons of the students around her are very obviously brilliant too; there’s no one character who is The Brain and the author never tries to shove someone’s intelligence in the reader’s face, which usually backfires.8) That said, they certainly took a leap of faith on those calculations. How do they know exactly how many monsters are in the world, and how rapidly they’ll breed when depleted? There are hints that they go forward with the plan just because everyone wants so badly to believe in it, but they have absolutely no idea what they’re all jumping into on the outside, either. I’m prepared for drama, but seeing all the kids work together to get everyone to safety still made me tear up a bit.9) The kids also feel more realistically teenage-y than is typical in fiction about teenagers. Though I side-eye El’s frequent comments about what a teenage boy Orion is, which though they painted a vivid picture, did not read very consistently with attraction. (Or maybe it’s just that I’m too old for teenage boys, so her descriptions didn’t attract me?)10) Scholomance kids don’t seem to get it on much, but Novik made sure to throw in some queer pairings this time. Though in 2021, in a fantasy novel not written by a white man, the unexpected choice would be to have all three friends be heterosexual.11) I am perhaps reconciling myself to the idea that the birth rate issue, and the question of why wizards would ever give birth in this world rather than adopting mundane kids if they must parent, will never be answered. But now there’s a hint that you can opt out of magic, so why aren’t all the parents pushing their kids to do that? Other than for the enclavers, is anything magic has to offer really worth the overwhelming likelihood of dying in your teens?12) What the hell was 14-year-old Sudarat doing walking a dog alone outside her enclave, anyway?13) Naming your last chapter “Patience” has never been so ominous! (hide spoiler)]—Pre-release comments, speculation, etc., with spoilers for A Deadly Education:(view spoiler)[- The structure of this trilogy will likely look a lot like the Hunger Games. Book 1 – survival in a bizarre dystopian situation. Book 2 – same situation, but stakes increase and we learn more about the sinister forces manipulating society. Book 3 – time to burn it all down.- Powerful forces within the enclaves probably have a lot more control over the monsters than anyone publicly admits, or allow people to create them, because somehow this serves their own interests. I kind of hope Novik doesn’t go this route because inequality exists in the real world without need for evil cabals deliberately maintaining it from their penthouse suites, but as a plot device it’s probably too juicy to pass up. And the first book has set us up for a later revelation that the enclaves must be destroyed.- Said powerful forces probably have something to do with the “malfunctioning” machines in the graduation hall. Else, how could a bunch of kids have fixed them when adults failed? Yes, they had Orion, who is clearly the hero everyone has been waiting for (though not the hero they need, because he’s inclined to play whack-a-mole forever rescuing individuals without considering the corruption in the system). But still, this smells suspicious.- Orion is a prophesied hero, right? I struggle to think what else Gwen might have found out about him from people who haven’t seen him for three years. Speaking of which, that message—great cliffhanger, but if you actually want people to follow your instructions, you really need to explain them. Especially when by “people” we mean “a contrarian teen you haven’t seen in three years.”- I have faith that our heroes will come up with the blindingly obvious best strategy to the graduation gauntlet, which is that instead of charging into a melee with these piddly alliances of a handful of people, they need to organize the entire class into an army and meet the monsters in a single phalanx. Will the powers that be attempt to disrupt this strategy, with its communitarian implications?- I really, really hope someone will explain how this society survives, between the 75-95% teenage death rates and the apparently incredibly low wizarding birth rates, particularly since they seem to get little new blood from non-wizarding families (unclear how these people can even contact the wizards).- Also, here’s hoping this time El will get to do something truly badass. (hide spoiler)]
4359919014	This one was so much better than the first book!!!The ending killed me and now I want the third book ASAP
7430081574	Unfortunately, the series doesn't get any better and has the same issues as the first book.Naomi Novik has created really fascinating magical world but spends too much time explaining it in the most boring way possible. Characters interesting as well, but don’t get much development and it's getting repetitive. I'm going to finish the series just because of the author's dirty trick - worst cliffhanger possible.
4269012812	I had friends. Which felt even more unreal than surviving long enough to become a senior, and I owed that, I owed every last bit of it, to Orion Lake, and I didn’t care, actually, what the price tag was going to be. There’d be one, no question. Mum hadn’t warned me for no reason. But I didn’t care. I’d pay it back, whatever it was. Did I want to immediately jump on here and write a review rather than dive into my next October Spooky Read? No. Did I want to think about this book all day at work and while doing mundane things around my house? No. Did I want to be so out of breath, so insanely drunk on adrenaline and the nerve-wracking peril butterflies borne from pain and panic, thus causing me to stay up all night in a crescendo of feels so inevitably dark, alluring and cataclysmic that I couldn’t help but re-read the same devastatingly amazing scene over and over again until there were undeniable bags under my eyes today? I mean…yes. Yes. Yes to all of this-I totally lied. I am a monster and my monster has been fed THUSLY. You could ask people to be brave, you could ask them to be kind, you could ask them to care, you could ask them to help; you could ask them for a thousand hard and painful things. But not when it was so obviously useless. You couldn’t ask someone to deliberately trade themselves away completely, everything they had and might ever be, just to give you a chance, when in the end—and the gates were the end, the very end of things—you knew you weren’t any more special than they were. It wasn’t even heroism; it was just a bad equation that didn’t balance. This is a review that didn’t allow me to start another book, that didn’t allow me to catch up on another review I’m behind on, that didn’t allow me proper sleep even tonight, because the thoughts and emotions and utter helplessness that comes from such an amazing end of a book cannot and will not be contained inside this masochistic cranium of mine. I am bent. I am broken. And I LIVE for the mind-numbingly chaotic chaos that is YA fantasy when done correctly. Either they’ll tell you to do what you want to do anyway, in which case you didn’t need their advice, or they’ll tell you to do the opposite, in which case you’ll have to choose between sullenly following their advice, like a little kid who has been forced to brush her teeth and go to bed at a reasonable hour, or ignoring it and grimly carrying on, all the while knowing that your course of action is guaranteed to lead you straight to pain and dismay. If you’re wondering which of those two options I picked, then you must not know me, as pain and dismay were obviously my destination. And make no mistake, this was done right. It was done well. It was evil, cruel, so satisfyingly macabre that I can’t help but sound like a demon as all I have talked about is my withering sanity that surely went south with this weirdly perfect masterpiece of a series (thus far). Naomi Novik is no novice in writing fantasy-Uprooted remains one of the most surprising favorites of my past to this day. So when I saw she was going a possessed school type route (what even is the Scholomance if not a school that lives and breathes as its own entity?), I was all in. The Scholomance isn’t exactly a living thing, but it isn’t exactly not, either. If she won me over with, like, random tree monsters and other such nonsense (I hate this type of nonsense, weirdly), then surely one of my favorite types of tropes ever could be written to utter godly heights by this woman. Naturally as soon as he dared think about what he might want, surely that made him a monster. But as someone who’s been told she’s a monster from almost all corners from quite early on, I know perfectly well the only sensible thing to do when self-doubt creeps into your own head is to repress it with great violence. I’ll admit the first book shocked me. I knew Novik was an odd writer, for me anyway, but this was….beyond absurd. Weirdly wonderful. And, beyond that absurdity of absurdness I’ve yet to explain, the wordiness is enough to scare anyone off. I used to hate that type of writing, so how Uprooted got through my crusty barriers years ago is beyond me. Don’t get me wrong-I’m all for it now-but I used to not be able to stand it. POINT BEING, this series is so beyond wordy that I’m shocked that so many people got past this book to get to that juicy last chunk of the book. I will admit, even to myself, the beginning was a bit of a chore. “Sure,” Orion said blithely, and I didn’t literally gnash my teeth because no one does, do they, but I felt as if I were gnashing my teeth. With no justification in the slightest. I try harder than most-I rarely DNF a book-but I had to push. Look, I am one who really reallyyyy loves those smidgens of romance. One might say they are my driving force. But, when the romance isn’t necessarily…blossoming…I expect other things to keep me occupied. In book one, we got a lot of Orion, but it’s not like he was the star of the show-clearly we are in snarky Galadriel’s head forever and always and it’s an endless rant much like what goes on in my head 24/7, thus why I love her so hard. I swear-the bitchiness is unparalleled. But we got…lots of action. There were so many things that happened with so many different people in so many different areas that it was just so alluring. So gripping. And that ’we’re not dating but are really dating’ storyline remains one of my newest favorite non tropes. In this one, I felt it was a lot of being in her head, and lots of hanging with her friends doing the same-ish things. I don’t know that I’d have bent my neck the way she did, apologizing to me and even asking to be friends after I bit her head off. I’m not sorry for doing the biting, I had more than enough cause, but I still don’t know that I’d have had the grace. Oh, who am I lying to? My supply of grace wouldn’t overflow an acorn cap. Now, okay, I was super sick for book one and lots of book two-I admit I completely scrapped this read when I got to about halfway and there was some serious feels that should have been felt that I most definitely didn’t feel and I knew I was checked out and couldn’t focus-I re read all the first half of the book when I began to feel better and I am SO GLAD I did. The second time around was so much more rewarding-but it still didn’t feel like we got a lot of what I wanted for much of the book. I’m not some sort of pallid romantic who insists on being loved for my shining inner being. My inner being is exceptionally cranky and I often don’t want her company myself… Well. Ha ha Novik says, because this book kicked it into overdrive and it never really stopped. The Last Graduate did not go in any direction I would have imagined it to go, and I can’t say I didn’t want things to perhaps follow the school vibes of A Deadly Education a little more similarly but, in the end, I loved how the path the author took showed the journey of El and how she really is a snarky, rude soul that could stand to be nicer to my poor Orion, but what her true self looked like on the inside-who she really was and how she really was deep down-she had more depth in character and personality than perhaps anyone there. It was a very peculiar journey…but I see why the author did it. There was no other way, really, to show just how much El had progressed and changed from the beginning of book one when she was just a miserable outcast who would have blasted pretty much anyone out of the way to secure her place at freedom during graduation to the self-sacrificing martyr anyone would be shocked to see today. Mum would only warn me off something bad, not something painful. So obviously Orion was the most brilliant maleficer ever, concealing his vile plans by saving the lives of everyone over and over just so he could, I don’t know, kill them himself later on? Or maybe Mum was worried that he was so annoying that he’d drive me to become the most brilliant maleficer ever, which was probably more plausible, since that’s supposedly my own doom anyway. Much of the book is spent with El and her allies, which was cute, but I’m all for when we began to mingle more as a larger group, more for when Orion got to come out of his shell and we got to actually see some more depth from him, as well. We knew El was deep-but this whole series we were told time and again all Orion knew was fighting mals and that he’d sooner set up a date mal hunting for mana than hanging with friends his age or even show interest in a girl. “They’re freaked out over Orion.” “After you’ve only been dating two months?” Liu said. “We’re not dating!” Aadhya made a dramatic show of rolling her eyes heavenwards. “After you’ve been doing whatever you’re doing that is not dating but totally looks like dating to everyone else, for only two months.” And that goes back to what my friend said when she told me I needed to read it: Orion has a hero complex, but it’s so much deeper than that-and, although I didn’t think we’d see it at all in this series seeing as how he is talked and alluded to-we finally got a glimpse into his tortured soul. YES. You heard me right- We have a bonafide tortured hero, here , and damn if I didn’t have to work for it, but I unearthed him and he has a permanent place in my heart. He was an adorable cinnamon roll, sure, but now he is…he’s just…he’s more. And I suppose that goes without saying, doesn’t it, as Novik doesn’t really write one-dimensional worlds or characters. But, I’ll admit, I thought she was going for intentionally flighty here, and I’m so so so glad she cracked open the shell that is Orion Lake and proved my assumption wrong (It only took two whole books but okay). At least they had certainly stopped worrying about doing any killing of their own. Even Orion had got over being enraged and was just standing gawking at me—in an infuriatingly starry-eyed way, in his case, demonstrating his continuing total lack of judgment and sense. El is a wonderfully diverse character who says it like it is-she’s selfish, she knows what she has to do to survive, and not much stands in her way as far as distractions go. But what happens when you make friends, find a guy you [won’t admit it but we all know it] would take a bullet (or a mal) for, and see that things just aren’t right, that you can do more. What then? We get to see what humanity means to El when she’s really backed into a corner, when she sees the school isn’t going to settle for one of the most powerful students in history just coasting through and graduating like a ’normal’ person. And that’s where we get to see the El we knew was hiding all along. She did a good job pretending she didn’t care, acting blasé at the most horrendous things…but in each rude remark, each turn of phrase, each knee to Orion’s groin, we saw through it (or at least I did) and, in the end, the school got to see the true El, too.And yeah, hey, speaking of that before I go, she is just so mean to Orion. I love it, I always did, especially in book one, but wow my heart cringed for the poor guy. Dude’s obviously obsessed with her and she can’t help but glare and put him off at each and every turn-when, clearly, she is just as obsessed with him as he is her. Honestly, if I didn’t say it before (I did), her inner monologues about him were enough to power me through my day. The simple way she’d glare at him if he wanted to run off and hunt mals, how she lectured him to do his homework, how she would glare and coolly dismiss him with a British flair of iciness to make it clear he wasn’t getting to anybase was the much needed dark humor that fanned the flames of their weird passionate non-relationship and, at the end of it all, it paid off so spectacularly that the wind was stolen right from my lungs, my knees taken out from underneath me, and the floor disappeared out of seemingly nowhere. That’s exactly what epic is, in case you were wondering. …and then the bastard looked down at me with his entire heart crammed into his eyes and his face and said, barely a whisper, “Galadriel.” All in all I did love book one more, just because I’m a book one kinda gal, mostly. They almost always speak to me in unsung ways that are unable to be fulfilled once my heart is full of those puppy love moments, the first dregs of death and destruction, the way the battlefield is set and the story could literally go anywhere from that moment. Second books rarely stand a chance with me, to be honest. But, I’ve found second books have a great little weapon in their arsenal: The end. Book one may be the strongest nine times out of ten, but the second book in a series generally packs a punch so agonizing that book three can’t come soon enough. Alas, that generally leads to a wimpy book three…but I’d like to think Novik is better than that, better than such mortal worries-but I guess we’ll see, won’t we? For more of my reviews, please visit: ******Ohmighod I just...I can't....I want...OmifuckinggodthiswassogoodsofuckingepiccccRTC
4307528800	Everyone takes a deep breath. Including me. I'm about to faint, I’m telling you.Is it possible to freak out about something you don't even love? Because “love” is a big word, and I'm pretty sure I just really liked all of this, but I'm still freaking out.There are some improvements compared to her last book, but I wouldn't imagine that I could react like this. At the moment, the only thing I'm capable of doing is screaming into my pillow and staring at the wall because I have so many questions, Miss Novak. Let's start with the amazing glow-up of the protagonist, El, who was a big problem in the other book while here I even would have liked a more angry and bitchy version of herself. To be fair, she hasn't become an angel but just because she has decided to save thousands of kids doesn't mean she can't insult an asshole when she sees one. And I'm not just saying she's way less annoying, she also became a proper hero for this story and it wasn't so bad had to read the events from her point of view. If this isn't a glow-up then I don't know what it is.Liu and Aadhya are still my favorites, and I didn't mind seeing Chloe in the game once you got to know her a little bit. But, I'm not gonna lie, I came here for Orion and I'm really disappointed about that.After A Deadly Education I wasn't impressed at all and for no reason I would have agreed on my free will to read this, the book I'm now reviewing. So, in exchange for the time I've lost, I spoilered myself a couple of comments, and in the mess of thoughts one thing was clear to everyone: Orion Lake is dangerous. Well, even El’s mother thinks that, so it must be true. Except that it’s not for me. How can you say he's dangerous when all he can think about is sleeping, eating, and killing bad creatures. Yeah, he's a bit weird but do I have to remind you that El’s ability is killing people? He's not the villain - I'm laughing while writing this -, and of course the two of them make a lovely couple.Because of the prophecy. Did you think I forget that? The bloody prophecy which we don't know anything about. Probably they shouldn't be together because they can cause the end of the world or something like that: he dies and she’s so mad that she destroy everything, she dies and he does something really stupid with bad consequences, they can be together even if they shouldn't. There are so many alternatives, but one thing is for sure: I truly believe they love each other.And this brings us here, to the ending. I don't know if I'm angrier about the fact I'm shocked, or because it's stupid, or maybe because I have to wait a whole year (or more) for another book. I mean, was it necessary? Is he dead? How will he come out of there? It's gonna end badly, I'm sure of that, I can feel it in my bones. So this is why I liked the story: them.About the technical details: it's still difficult to read, I still rather kill myself than go to that school, I'm still a little bit annoyed by the writing skills of the author and I’m once again saying we should have had more interactions between El and Orion - maybe next time it can be a little spicier. Now, this can go in two directions: the third (and probably last) book can be a masterpiece as much it can be awful. I'm willing to wait but I warn you, Naomi Novik: don't mess things up.↠ 4 stars
3760255138	If you loved the first book then I think you will love this sequel just as much.✅ EL WAS SUCH AN AWESOME character. Honestly, she's one of my favorite YA fantasy leading female characters because she's not a cookie-cutter stereotype in any way, shape, or form. She is such a great combination of badass + sarcastic + pessimistic and undoubtedly an overdramatic teenager - I just love her🆗 SIMILARLY TO THE FIRST BOOK, there were sooo many endless monologues and descriptions about nothing. Although this made for an absolutely amazing and immersive world, I just didn't care about all these tiny details that added little to the actual story itself, so by the end, I found myself skipping entire pages at a time sometimes🆗 THE ROMANCE between El and Orion definitely progressed, which was good for me because I'm always a big fan of romance 🥰 Definitely a PG-13 romance but their feelings were believable even though I don't think Orion had enough page time in the first half✅ I REALLY ENJOYED EL'S internal struggles around how she handled going from a lonely loser to suddenly being wanted by everyone. I thought she went through a really good arc and it was interesting watching this new popularity unfold (and of course the corresponding drama it caused)Honestly, this was a really well-written book. It started a little slow, but the world-building and characters 100% made up for any slowness in the plot at the beginning. The Scholomance and overall magic system are just so interesting and unique. I definitely recommend this if you're looking for an interesting new fantasy world that's kind of a cross between Harry Potter + Shadowhunters + Hitchiker's Guide.(PS: I also secretly like this book because I can actually recommend it to my friends that don't like reading much romance lol)Steam Scale: 🔥🔥/5Swoon Scale: ❤️/5
4267046102	Orion Lake a mi me encantas, asi de malo, intelectual y todo lo demas
4574867882	No sé qué le pasa a Goodreads QUE NO ME DEJA PONERLE MIL ESTRELLAS A ESTE LIBRO?! POR FAVOR ES QUE MENUDA MARAVILLA NO PUEDO PARAR DE GRITAR.Desde el principio he vuelto a quedar fascinada por la ambientación, los personajes y la trama HA SIDO DEMASIADO EMOCIONANTE Y PERFECTO Y SUFRO
3676335340	Yet another great book I’ve read this year that I really just do not want to write a review for, because it means having to find the words and think thoughts and all that stuff. I always have the most trouble with books I love and give five stars to. It’s always like, HOW DO I CONVEY THIS FEELING which morphs into I DON’T EVEN WANT TO TRY with some whining in there for good measure.I really liked the first book in this series when I read it last year. The idea of a sentient school for magic that is also your teacher is so great. And add on top of that the idea that what is missing from a lot of YA fantasy books about magic schools is the cost of that magic, and that being inside the school is incredibly dangerous (it’s more dangerous for kids to be outside it, which is why the school is still there). The result is that Novik gets to play around with ideas of economic in/equality and power and social dynamics in a way that is extremely fun and also thought provoking.Here, she takes that set up and turns it up to eleven, because everything in this book (which covers our main character El’s last year in the Scholomance before Graduation and almost certain death for most of her classmates) is a consequence of events, mostly orchestrated by El and Orion, that happened in the first book. Having done such a good job in the first book setting up the baseline for the school, which hasn’t changed much in hundreds of years, suddenly dynamics are changing, and it is exhilarating to read about.A warning, if you haven’t started this series yet but want to (and you should!): This book ends on a TERRIBLE cliffhanger. It is an audacious, great ending that makes unbelievable sense and brings the themes of the series full circle, but you will be waiting in agony for book three just like I am, and if that doesn’t sound appealing to you, I recommend waiting until next fall (when hopefully book three will be out) and just binging all three in a row so as to minimize your emotional pain.
3782158484	I received this book for free from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review.The Last Graduateis the follow up to A Deadly Education . Both entries in the series so far follow Galadriel, known as “El,” and her attempts to survive schooling in a magical school known as the Scholomance. All young wizards are crammed in this competitive school in England to survive the many maleficarias or "mals," who are attracted by the mana of young wizards and wish to feast on them. This year, El is a senior, and has to prepare for the most deadly part of her education yet—graduation. Though The Last Graduatehas the same quirky and sarcastic narration by El, as well as the same setting, I found that The Last Graduate just didn’t work for me quite as well as its predecessor.Instead of taking delight in El’s long-winded diatribes about magic, enclaves, maleficarias, or the Scholomance, I found I was incredibly tempted to skim a lot of these descriptions in my read through. Instead of being charming, I found these monologues tedious and incessant; El can literally find anything to dump information about and she certainly doesn’t do it concisely. And most of these things that she endlessly describes aren’t even that pertinent to the story at large or the situation at hand. I am a big highlighter when I read, but to my frustration, it was almost impossible to highlight a mere sentence or two with what I thought might be important later, because all of the sentences of The Last Graduate are incredibly long, usually looking like whole paragraphs. To my dismay, I often ended up with whole pages highlighted. Now, I’m sure this is the exact same writing style as A Deadly Education. , which I gave four stars. So why did it bother me so much in The Last Graduate? I think a big portion of my dislike of the writing style in The Last Graduate came down to the fact that the novelty of the world had worn off for me. I was already familiar with the Scholomance, the magical world, and the maleficaria. Plus, El now had friends and people to talk to, but was still going off on these crazy lectures to the reader about how enclave wars worked, or how food got to the cafeteria in the Scholomance, or why you shouldn’t use bean bag chairs in dorm rooms. And like I said, none of these explanations were short and many of them didn't feel very important. Plus, not much was going on in The Last Graduate, as maleficarias aren't attacking as much, and all of the students are focused on one thing and one thing only for the entirety of the novel: graduation."I don't think anyone really knew what to do with themselves. We've all spent the best part of four years training as hard as we could to be inhumanely selfish in a way we could only possibly live with because all of us were going round in fear for our lives—if not in the next five minutes then on graduation day at the latest—and you could tell yourself everyone was doing the same and there wasn't any other choice. The Scholomance had encouraged it if anything."*I think my other issue with The Last Graduate was that El was no longer an outcast. Instead, it became widely accepted in the entire school that El is the only way the students have any chance of making it out of graduation alive. I think I just personally related to El more when she was a loner or a loner with one or two friends. It was a lot to wrap my head around how quickly someone who was almost universally despised became the most desired alliance member in the entire school, with pretty small amounts of resistance. And El seemingly took on this new role with relative ease, deciding she will save every last student of the Scholomance. Her hero complex soon became even bigger than Orion Lake’s, who we learn is really just more about killing maleficarias than saving everyone. "I'd been ready to go down to the graduation hall and fight for my life; I'd been ready to fight for the lives of everyone I knew, for the chance of a future. I didn't need this much more to lose."Though El still got frustrated sometimes, there’s less sarcasm, outward disgust at weakness, and a lot less of the angry, snarky character I liked in the first novel. I also could not decide if it was in character or out of character for El to ignore her mother’s advice to stay away from Orion Lake. One part of me thought, “yeah, El doesn’t listen to anyone,” but also the other part of me considered that El has always been first and foremost concerned with survival and would never make these kinds of illogical decisions. El also worries frequently (and rightly so), what giving in to her feelings will cost her, and even tries not to be alone with Orion because she doesn't trust herself not to act on her feelings for him. So when she finally gave in, it didn't feel like she was making the right decision. I feel that if Orion and El hadn't acted on their feelings until after graduation, it would have shown that they cared more about each other surviving and their lives together after graduation. Instead, any act of love felt cheap and convenient, with the excuse that they were afraid they were going to die. This was really frustrating to me, because notably El's dad actually died, during graduation, after getting El's mom pregnant. So I feel that El should have the brains not to repeat her mother's mistakes."I came in here and I've survived in here being sensible all the time, trying to always do the cleverest thing I could manage, to see al the clear and sharp-edged dangers from every angle, so I could just barely squeeze past them without losing too much blood. I could never afford look past survival, especially not for anything as insanely expensive and useless as happiness, and I don't believe in it anyways. I'm too good at being hard, I've got so good at it, and I wasn't going to go soft all of a sudden now."But there's not a lot of learning from example going on with El, which disappointed me. After deliberating, I came to the conclusion that it made some sense for a teenager, who thinks they may not make it alive out of graduation, to throw caution to the wind.. However, I lost a lot of respect for El in her developing relationship with Orion Lake, merely because she stopped thinking with her head and was acting with her heart. As a whole, El was a lot less “intimidating dark sorceress who could destroy the world” and more “typical teenager in love for the first time and making stupid decisions, who just happens to have a lot of magical power.” Despite being less thrilled with El’s characterization and her relationship with Orion, I still really enjoyed her friendship with Liu and Aadyha. I also really liked that El was forced to get to know a lot of her classmates when working with them to survive graduation. My favorite character by far was the ruthless and abrasive Liesel, who seemed to fill the hole left behind El’s transformation into a possible and very willing martyr. I laughed out loud a lot when Liesel was barking orders, forging alliances, teaching El the proper way to compliment someone in order to forge said alliance, and so on. I hope that this is not the last time I see this character, or someone like her, because she was such a riot. Less of a riot for me was the shocking cliffhanger ending of The Last Graduate. I even tried to turn the page for more, because I didn’t think The Last Graduatecould possibly end on such an abrupt, surprising note. I haven’t definitively decided how I feel about the cliffhanger yet: I'm somewhere between respect to the author, Naomi Novik, for having the guts to end her novel so recklessly and frustration that The Last Graduate ended where and how it did. I can't believe I have to wait however long until the next novel comes out in the series to find out what happens. This ending cut off The Last Graduatebefore I could find out what I most want to know from the series, such as, but not limited to these following questions: Will El really destroy all of the enclaves? And will it be with dark magic, or the fact that she’s magically united everyone by her actions in The Last Graduate?Will El see her friends again?Will El’s mom ever approve of Orion?Is there a better way to keep young wizards safe? What will El do outside of the Scholomance?What really happened to the Bangkok Enclave?Does Precious really have any powers? I can only hope that a follow up to The Last Graduate will answer these questions and the many others that I have that aren’t spoiler free. Even though the ending was incredibly unexpected and jarring, I think it did increase my interest in reading the next novel, as I found I was woefully indifferent to or undecided on a lot of the events that happened in The Last Graduate. I just hope that it is unlike the ending toA Deadly Education. , which felt like a pretty big tease due to the fact that that novel left off at El receiving her mother’s warning to stay away from Orion Lake, only for him to not cause any trouble for most, or all of The Last Graduate (depending on how you view it).I also could not help but to feel that there wasn't a whole lot of substance to this novel in other regards as well, as all the characters constantly were focused on preparing for graduation. Though this made sense with what was at stake, it sadly meant that most of The Last Graduate felt solely like filler or mere build up for the next entry in the Scholomance series. And the cliffhanger didn't help with those feelings, as the novel cut off literally seconds before the next part of El's journey could begin. However, if you enjoyed A Deadly Education. , you will most likely get a kick out of this next chapter in El’s story, even if a lot of the new series shine has worn off in this sequel. *All quotes subject to change at publication. bloggingwithdragons.com My Book Review PolicyConnect with Me:| instagram | tumblr | twitter |pinterest | facebook | email |
3693879463	buddy read with dear mina!ahh this might've been even better than book #1, but GODDAMN NAOMI NOVIK, that cliffhanger! this had my sarcastic queen El, so i knew it would - at the very least - provide badassery and amusement for the masses, and that it did. with El kicking ass and taking names alongside sugar-pop-cinnamon-roll baby Orion, this book definitely gave me all i needed in terms of character development and ounces of romance. i love these two lovelies so much - El may be a little prickly but she's practically my inspiration in life, and Orion is just a sweetheart/mild himbo with a heart of gold and a brain of mush. i love him!as per Naomi Novik, The Last Graduate had pages and paragraphs full of info-dumping and extensive descriptions, but i found this to be the perfect combo of mildly irritating and incredibly immersive, so i was happy. as usual, psychotic monsters are attempting to kill everyone in every second of every day, but hell, it's fun to read about!! but damn, that cliffhanger. i really need the third book. now.
5038443258	Stars: 5 out of 5This is an excellent continuation of the Scholomance series. It picks up moments after the end of book one and its ominous warning and leaves El and her friends with a plethora of new problems. The most pressing of which is getting ready for graduation. They all know what is waiting for them down in the graduation hall and that not all of them will make it out alive. It's time to form alliances and play your cards right. Because surviving graduation is only the first step. If you are lucky enough, you might also get a spot in an enclave after.I loved El's character growth in this book. Her slow realization that she had friends she can rely on. And her bigger realization that surviving graduation on her own isn't enough anymore. She also wants to make sure her friends survive. And most of the other graduates as well, even if some of them are from enclaves, but she is finding out that they are good people after all, flawed, entitles, clueless as to how life is for non-enclavers, but not intrinsically bad. It was also interesting to see her progressively feel more and more responsible for the first years that she had to have classes with. To come to the realization that they would have to deal with graduation as well in four years, and that the cleaning measures they had repaired might break again before their graduation. And if that happened, they would have to face a room full of hungry mals and no El or Orion to protect them... El is finally learning how to care about people other than herself and it's a wonderful thing to see. That's character growth at its best. The stakes felt real in this book as well. Graduation is coming whether our characters want it or not, and they have to work together to survive it. I loved how this idea slowly dawned on everybody and how people finally started cooperating. And that when El came up with her insane plan, mostly everyone backed her up. Granted, the fact that the Scholomance itself was actively encouraging them to be useful was a good inciting factor as well.Speaking of the Scholomance, loved the revelation that the school was, if not sentient, then at least aware. That all these years, it's been trying to fulfill its purpose the best it could, even with failing security measures and cleaning spells in the graduation hall. Even if that meant mercilessly training the kids in its charge so that they stood at least a chance to survive graduation. Even if that meant paring the week and feeding them to the mals, so that the strong had a better chance at making it out alive. I mean what an impossible conundrum - it's tasked to protect all the gifted children of the world... and is forced to make tough choices to protect at least some of them.The ending was heartbreaking. I really hope that we haven't seen the last of Orion. On a different note, I love that this didn't evolve like the typical YA love story. In fact, romantic interests are the least of our characters problems in this series so far. Sure, they pair up, do the typical teenage things, but it's not the focus of the story, and I'm glad about it.All in all, I'm loving this series so far. It's a well-constructed world with complex characters that you can't help but empathize with.
4447180798	What the hell is that endingggggg? I need book 3 asap!This book was great- better than book 1. It’s packed with action, new characters, a lot of emotion and some sweet romance. El’s character gets even better and I loved all the new characters. Loved the plot, the extra world building- there’s nothing to complain about in this book except for the freaking cliffhanger.Now let me go scream in a corner while I agonisingly wait for the sequel.
3765942738	Star Rating: —> 5 StarsWell DAMN! 😱 SHOOK! RTC
4263797334	This, Was. Incredible.After giving 4.5 stars to the first book (A DEADLY EDUCATION), I was hoping that THE LAST GRADUATE would push it that one step further for me to give it 5 stars and Naomi Novik absolutely did not disappoint. We pick up directly where A DEADLY EDUCATION left off, with El having just received a note from her mother in the outside world. From here, the characterisation and character development for El was SO fun to watch unravel and I really loved her slow realisation that she actually CARED about people?!Throughout the book there is still the looming threat of Graduation, which gives good tension throughout the book. I think one of my favourite parts was when they were doing the obstacle course to "prepare" for the inevitable bloodbath that awaited them below.Another standout character for me obviously had to be Orion Lake. He is one of the funniest himbo characters I've ever had the pleasure to read, and I shipped him and El fiercely. His sulking and trying to ask her out awkwardly really solidified him as a favourite character in general, let alone in the book. I also loved El's friendship group development with Aadhya and Liu. I genuinely teared up at several moments between these three girls, and that doesn't happen often! The amount of side characters that had development was astounding, none of them felt 2D or shoved in for plot purposes. I really enjoyed El's interactions with all the different students, especially the freshman.Overall I am INCREDIBLY EXCITED for the finale to the trilogy, especially after that ending?! I'd highly recommend the series to anyone, especially if they like first person narrative/diary-like thoughts style of writing.
6316055399	Ah, the curse of the middle book in a trilogy. My investment in these characters' survival carried me through this more than anything. The pacing was a bit slower here, and the book felt like filler at times, but I cared enough about our core cast of characters to be invested in the outcome (except Orion, who continued to be the embodiment of plain paper). I was really hoping for even more terrifying monsters explored in the way that we saw the Mawmouth in book one, and I was disappointed that the mals we met weren't conveyed in as visceral a way. That initial scene with a Mawmouth in the first book remains the most captivating and disturbing scene of this entire series, and I think there was a lot of untapped potential with the mals in general. This instalment was exciting, with some wholesome and funny moments, to be sure, but certainly not as spectacular as it could have been with a bit more rawness, darkness, and vulnerability.Representation: MC is mixed race (South Asian/White), and several secondary characters are BIPOCTrigger/Content Warnings: child death, death, suicide (mention), violence, classismYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
6334387629	This book is not for everyone... There's a lot of info-dumping through inner monologue, which can be quite boring and dull for some people.BUT I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!!
5641572620	Pues me ha gustado... pero menos que el 1º, ha habido tramos que me parecían lentos e incluso la parte del entrenamiento, partes repetitivas, el final está claro que lo mejora con ese giro final, pero esta es mi sensación general del libro.La protagonista después de 4 años en la escuela esta a punto de graduarse y ya no es una paria social, incluso ya tiene amigas, y la verdad es que eso si fue una evolución del personaje.Si es cierto que nombran a unos cuantos alumnos y que al final puede llegar a resultar algo lioso saber quien es quien.Habrá que ver como evoluciona en el 3º y último de la trilogía, después de ese final sorprendente??Valoración: 6.85/10Sinopsis: El conocimiento otorga protección. Ese es el lema oficial de la Escolomancia. Supongo que podríamos decir que es cierto., el problema es que aquí resulta muy difícil aprender, por lo que la protección de la que disponemos es más bien escasa. Nuestro querido colegio hace todo lo posible por devorar a sus alumnos, pero ahora que estoy en último curso y he conseguido unos cuantos aliados, ha desarrollado un antojo de lo más particular por mí. Incluso si consigo sobrevivir a las interminables oleadas de maleficaria con las que me obsequia entre los agotadores proyectos para clase, no tengo ni idea de cómo mis aliados y yo vamos a salir vivos del salón de grados. A no ser, por supuesto, que acepte de una vez mi profetizado destino y sucumba a la magia oscura y la destrucción. Desde luego, de esa forma saldría en un santiamén. Adentrándome en la senda del conocimiento, sin duda. Pero no pienso ni a los mals ni al destino, y mucho menos a la Escolomancia. Saldré de este horrible lugar con mis amigos aunque sea lo último que haga.#2. Un libro que quieras leer basado en la última frase. Reto Popsugar 2025.
4346029313	Check out my Booktube channel at: The Obsessive BooksellerThe Last Graduate was a completely satisfying sequel.Hearing that the series had been expanded to three books, I got a little cranky and put off reading this second book for almost a year. I was certain it was going to be nothing but filler content and didn’t want a disappointing read after having absolutely loved Deadly Education (book 1). Well, I need to take off my fortune-telling hat and stop being so cynical, because I loved this installment.It wrapped up the plot I think was originally planned for the duology, but had enough substance and other points of interest to warrant a third book. It doesn’t feel like a cash grab, and in fact had I come to the end of the series at this point with no third book on the horizon, I would’ve been pissed. I can’t wait to see what happens next!The first book had a lot of great classroom learning scenes and let me explore the school to a pretty satisfying degree. This second book focused more on the bigger picture, spliced up here and there with some great training sequences. The main character, which I hear tell is the most off-putting thing about the series to some readers, remains one of my personal draws to the story. She’s anything but typical, and continues to cause most of her problems with her attitudes and perspectives. I find it completely delightful to read about someone so flawed, especially since she’s still had a pretty good growth arc thus far.Despite the fact that the book focuses on teens in a school setting, this book does not read YA to me in the slightest. It would be remiss to tell a story with young characters without addressing hormonal complications, but all of that is secondary to the main plot of the story. It also highlights cliques and other typical school-aged drama, but from the standpoint of how one’s social life affects their ability to survive this deadly school rather than from an emotional one. It makes me so happy to find a magic school series with a young female character that doesn’t ring of YA baggage. They’re hard to find.Overall, this was a great continuation, and I can’t wait to see how the whole thing ends in Golden Enclave this fall.Recommendations: if you love school settings, appreciate atypical characters, aren’t afraid of an unconventional narrative, and are in the mood for something off the beaten path, this is an excellent pick.Thank you to my Patrons: Filipe, Dave, Frank, Sonja, Staci, Kat, and Katrin! <3Other books you might like: Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com
4576572650	So I KNEW she was going to do that! DAMN it! I knew it! The only reason I don't give this one star is because I really liked the characters (In book 1)! Naomi Novik is a much better writer than THIS. I almost refuse to believe that she actually wrote this. Did she really? I Need the Ghostwriter to CONFESS! I just could not believe this was how she planned to follow the first book. That's mainly why I dragged my feet in her so called race to completion. At 80% I was like, Dev... She's not going to make it! And prepared myself for the HACK JOB I knew Novik was going to shell out. The pacing of this one is horrendous. The stakes are nonexistent, because the author showed her cards EARLY on. The story itself is past being predictable to the point that I'm bored during so called action scenes. Was this novel written under a strict deadline or something?OH Yes! The action. It's ALL the SAME! Rinse, REPEAT! I think she just Cut out the name of the previvous Mals and replaced them with a new one she made up in a drunk moment. And why not names that she thought would convey how these horrible creatures looked. Hey this book needed a villian or a proper Antagonist. I though I was stuck in a time loop reading the same page over and over again. From 40% to 90% it's basically the same conversations and sequences on REPEAT. Gal is now being a Mary Sue. And a horrible Mary Sue at that, because she initially wasn't designed for that. Some decisions she made after literal ambushes and assisination attempts was so out of character it almost made the scene UNREADABLE. YES We get it they are doing Engligh and Spanish and Chinese "runs" in the gym. Why not mention each one ten THOUSAND times! YES we get the Mals are coming out the floor. Why not say that TEn THOUSAND times! Yes Yes Yes! So who died? I mean at the end of all that what were the stakes? What changed between the first and the last gym run practices if the success of the escape was still up in the air. I don't know how Novik could look her fans in the eyes after that ending. Or maybe Covid did save her from the dreadful staredown she would have got. I Don't know what to say. Just saying "Disappointment" is more than an understatement.
5420885833	The Last Graduate takes us to senior year at the Scholomance, Galadriel (better known as El) is finally getting ready to graduate but before such thing happens she must prepare along with her friends in order to be ready for graduation day, which is usually when only few of the graduating students make it back into the real life world. There's just a little problem, though. The previous year's events led her to be running low on mana and if she's to face the maleficaria with her somewhat scary spells she will need as much of it as possible. How on earth would she accomplish such a task when the collection of mana requires time and dedication?El will need all possible help and that's where Liu, Aadhya, Nkoyo come most handy. Maybe even Orion will be able to assist in completing such task.However, something seems odd at the Scholomance, mals are not as present as last year. Could it be possible they're getting prepared to launch themselves into a vile attack? Such absence only makes El more uneasy than she should feel. There's also the strong feeling the school is trying to connect to her and provide her with an important message. All this is making El extremely anxious and confused, and on top of it all...she seems to really be falling for...Orion. Should she trust herself? What if her mother was right warning her about him?Whatever this all means, El is positively sure of one thing, she wants to graduate and some decisions will have to be made if she wants to make it alive out of the Scholomance. Will she be able to achieve it? Let's take a trip to the Scholomance and find out along with El.As a whole, I quite enjoyed the journey and fell more in love with Naomi Novik's writing style. I'm only one more book to go to conclude with the series and really look forward to it.
3707447347	That ending made me want to scream! I didn’t go into this book thinking there’d be another after but now I just know a 3rd book is coming. It took a bit to actually get going, for the main plot to fall into place etc but once it did it was so good ahhh!!I can’t believe we’re going to be left with THAT as a cliffhanger…
5164720392	My only salvation to that cruel, twisted cliffhanger is the fact the final book is out because WHAT.I mean to an extent I knew it was coming: I have had a concerningly large amount of my predictions be correct so far, big or small, up until the last page (unfortunately)Desperately hoping I'm wrong about the rest though. Novik please. If anything happens to Orion—(view spoiler)[I don't think he's gonna die to be honest. At least not here. Even though he just signed his death sentence by shoving El out and being alone in the Scholomance while it is filled with mala from top to bottom.The last few paragraphs of him gazing at the Patience-Fortitude fusion has convinced me that he's a maw mouth, or has got some connection to it, and won't die of it. But then how is he gonna get out? I'll need some time and probably a few rereads to get the ending 'cause my english isn't good, but the school's kind of already destroyed. I guess I'll just read on... (hide spoiler)]Yeah, let's not think about that anymore. But besides the ending the entire book was a wild ride from start to finish, mostly because it continued off the last book cliffhanger, and the more you read the more tense you get about what's about to come. Also damn, A deadly Education did NOT do justice showing just how powerful El is. Her character development—the role reversal in general—is very...I don't know what's the word for it. In a way it was expected though. She does in a way seems like the person who would decide to (view spoiler)[save everyone if given the chance (the way I have to spoiler tag this) (hide spoiler)]Also props to Naomi Novik. Even El & Orion's sloppy make out sessions and more which are mostly caused by teenager hormonal urges seemed plot relevant. Which I guess in a way they were. Maybe.Aadhya is still of course my favourite character. Especially when she told Khamis off and just for everything she does in general, but I like Alfie & Liesel more than I'd like to admit. Especially Liesel.Speaking of Liesel, I'm like 70% sure El is into her one way or the other. Despite her attempted murder on El which would have worked had she not changed her mind last minute. Also I like her in general because no matter what, she's valedictorian and more than competent and geniunly cares, for the most part. I really wanna see her interact with the others more.Also I'm still worried about Liu. She definitely was better here than in the first book and we learnt more about her here, and that's why I'm worried. Maybe her family will make her do something really out of pocket or force her to something, they just... nevermind honestly.Magnus...no opinion on him. Khamis? Can't say but I like him. Chloe though, I now have a soft spot for her honestly. She really IS a good-natured girl and her slow but consistent character growth was fabulous. Wondering how she'll deal with the aftermath of everything though, and the chaos that'll happen at the New York Enclave.And also hopefully in book 3 we'll meet the New York Enclave. I really wanna see El meet Orion's parents and all the big people now that she's done all that's happened inside Scholomance, as well as her own side of the family, if they want to see her again. Also Golden Enclaves will be set outside of Scholomance, and I'm geniunly excited to see the outside world through anything but El's monologues, as immersive as I find them.Once again, hoping my bigger predictions are wrong. That Orion El Liu and Aadhya make it out alive in the end and El & Orion get their happy ending, but even I know that's too much to ask for. We just pray they're alive and not inside something eldritchy horrorBrief Buddy read with Naisa
4576800542	Aunque puedo ver los puntos fuertes del libro, para mi a veces pesaban más los negativos.✅ Ambientación oscura y original✅ Protagonista maravillosa✅ Humor sarcástico ❌ Mucha descripción, la narración es densa❌ Capítulos muy largos❌ Trama demasiado lenta❌ Libro de personajesSabéis que me encantan los libros de personajes, pero en este caso lo considero más un punto negativo, ya que con el mundo tan guay que crea la autora, me hubiera gustado que añadiera más acción o vueltas de tuerca y que los plotwists no se concentraran justo en el final de los libros😵‍💫Para mi ha sido una historia que ha estado bien, pero que me esperaba un mayor potencial de ella. Se que estos libros son bastante queridos, así que no se si será una opinión impopular😅
3638353838	Thanks to Del Rey Books and Netgalley for providing an ARC in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.C/W:(view spoiler)[violence, death, gore (hide spoiler)]It’s been nearly two days since finishing The Last Graduate and I’m not remotely over this book. It’s a rare sequel that takes all of the things I loved from book 1 and seems to do them even better the second time around. The Last Graduate is filled with compelling characters, darkly hilarious, and a scathing look at how systems designed to save us can completely fail us instead.El is one of my all-time favorite protagonists. Her narrative voice is biting but relatable as the person she can be the harshest toward is herself. El faces some big challenges about who she is and what matters to her, which made for a really compelling plot arc. Watching her grow over the course of The Last Graduate was so, so satisfying. The development of the Scholomance as a setting and the expansion of the magic system in The Last Graduate were both such a delight to read. The world of the Scholomance mirrors the existing power structures in the real world in a way that allows for some excellent criticisms of the things privileged people can accept as “normal.” Novik expands the reader’s knowledge of what magic can do in ways that added so much to the reading experience. El’s views of how magic works are repeatedly challenged in this book, which helped flesh out the world in really interesting ways.Perhaps the most enduring element of The Last Graduate in the days after finishing it is the ending. I am absolutely unequivocally not over the ending. This book held my heart in my hands and, true to the Scholomance itself, it was not kind to it. The best part is that I can’t even be mad about what happened since it was so true to the characters that I honestly can’t see things going any other way. The Scholomance has become a new favorite series of mine. The Last Graduate was all I could’ve hoped for and more from a sequel. I can’t wait to discuss it with more readers when it comes out in September.
3753382118	3.5 stars, rounded up.This book was good, but I was a little disappointed compared to the first book. It took me a long time to get into the book. The pacing was slow in the beginning and middle and didn’t pick up until the end. I really liked the magical system in this book, it was very unique. I liked El, but her inner dialogue was very long and I had a hard time connecting with her. I really liked El and Orion’s relationship, they are so cute together. I liked learning more about the characters, but I wished there was more character development. The end of the book was very good, there was a lot of action and it was exciting!
4144289980	I have much to say about this book.I'm mostly disappointed. The writing style has not improved, mid-action scene and Naomi will info dump as if she realises that we need to know about X enclave or Y story.Orion and El have regressed as characters? The main focus of book 1 has now become a side story in this book. Both Orion and El are now not lovable as individuals or a couple. The reason book 1 was enjoyable was not because of the school or magic, but because of their love-hate relationship.There are no side characters to root for and the writing style was so disjointed that I kept forgetting who was who.I'm sad to give this 1 star because the last 20 pages were really enjoyable but you could smell the plot from a mile away and the writing was so bad that this is the first book ever that has taken me 14 days to read.
4266512397	I slurped this one down in about a day and then howled about the injustice of having to wait another year for the final book. The Last Graduate picks up right where book 1 left off with El pondering that ominous warning from her mother about Orion Lake...and promptly deciding to not ignore it so much as live with the consequences of disobeying.Anyway, Orion's not the biggest of El's problems senior year (though "If you had me make a list of the top ten questions I would go to great lengths to avoid asking myself, that one ['What could you do if you decided to start using malia?'] would have comprehensively covered items one through nine, and the only reason it wasn't doing for item ten as well was that So how do you feel about Orion Lake had quietly crept onto the bottom of it"). Her schedule is ridiculously hard, she's stuck with a bunch of freshman in an obscure library room, and maleficaria keep attacking so she's running out of her hard-won mana. It seems like the Scholomance has singled her out. But why?The first half is similar in tone and pace to book 1, and I enjoyed being immersed in the Scholomance and the weird mix of humor and violence that comes of living in a place where death is both creative and commonplace. I never expected to find myself laughing out loud at dismemberment, yet p. 57, there I was. There's pointed commentary on class and privilege within the Enclaves and jockeying for position in the Scholomance, and in the middle of it all is our misanthropic, destined-for-evil-yet-bitterly-principled heroine. El changes and grows in ways that I wasn't expecting and takes the second half of the book in a new direction. Can you save the day and still be snarky as hell? Yes, yes you can.El has improved at friendship but stalled out at romance:"Shut up, you cartwheling donkey," I snarled at him, and he recoiled and wobbled between baffled and offended for a moment, then said, sounding confused, "Wait, are you worried about - ?" and just stopped to gawk at me as though the shadow of the idea that any living being might at any point entertain a fraction of concern for his health and well-being had never crept across the windowsill of his molluscular brain, and I ran up the rest of the flight of stairs away from him because it was that or punch him in his beaky nose, which I'd caught myself idly thinking just that morning across the table at breakfast had a hint of young Marlon Brando, which might convey to you the depths to which I was sinking if your mum thinks, like mine does, that the height of appropriate children's entertainment is antique movie musicals.(Please note that that was ONE sentence. And typical of this book. I assume if you don't care for it, you never made it past A Deadly Education.)Despite being terminally unromantic, I have to confess that I really like El and Orion together. They're so dysfunctionally complementary to each other - one destined to be a hero, the other a villain, rarely seen by the people around them as much more than archetypes or tools, yet able to see each other as real people. El, never the most reliable narrator about feelings in general (yuck) or Orion in particular (a complete numpty), becomes downright unreliable here in ways that are often entertaining while masking a whole lot of vulnerability. 4.5 stars - minus a star for that ending. WTF, Naomi Novik? Now I have to wait a year? Thanks to Nataliya and Carol. for the buddy read!
5939909098	"I was still in the Scholomance, and all the miracles in here come with price tags."OH MY GOD THAT ENDINGEl and Orion hold my heart in their hands🥺I don't want this series to end, I'm actually obsessed. Quotes:"Senior year, you spend half your time staying alive, half your time on your lessons, and half your time working out a graduation strategy to get you through the hall. If you can't make that equation add up properly, you die.""I owed that, I owed every last bit of it, to Orion Lake, and I didn't care, actually, what the price tag was going to be.""Anger won. It usually does, for me.""Well, I'm fucked," I told Aadhya and Liu, succinctly, as soon as I reached our table and sat down with them. And how right I was.""The only other thing I'd ever heard him actually express wanting was me." "If I said, "Let's go stand on our heads on the cafeteria mezzanine stairs," he'd probably shrug and say, "If you want to.""Half the time he can't recognize me unless I'm with you.""...so everyone else would still be upstairs and not in range to see us doing anything this unbelievably stupid.""It means a lot more in here than outside to do something for nothing.""That was all I could be: the lesser evil." "In result if not intention.""What are you going to do otherwise?" That was the wrong question to ask, because Orion looked back at them and still clearly felt that kill them all was a perfectly valid response.""They were all just awful hollow lies, but he was real."
3571784728	can naomi novik do any wrong? i highly doubt it. another novik book goes straight to my favorites shelf.MAJOR SPOILERS BELOW!Okay, but I have questions about that ending. I might be reading too much into this, but El never got to say the last word of her spell before Orion made her "graduate" by shoving her out of the school, right? So doesn't that mean the school won't fall into the void as planned? Or is it implied that the school will fall into the void by itself, since it was kinda in the process of happening, even without the final word of the spell, when Patience suddenly appeared? Was this meant to be a cliffhanger or am I just overthinking it? I feel like I am, but please advise. Frankly, I don't know what I'm going to do with myself until September 2022 when the final book comes out and I can finally get some answers. On a different--though related--note, I feel like the next book's gonna be a huge hit-or-miss for me, since it's taking us out of the setting we know and love and dropping us in a totally new one. I trust Naomi--as I said, she hasn't let me down yet--but I'm still a little apprehensive, since not many authors have been successful at doing it in the past.
4330401847	This series so brilliant. I absolutely love El, and her whole cohort of messed up wizard kids. And the cute lil' freshman, now, that she's reluctantly trying to help. And Precious, her familiar, who is like some disapproving auntie. Just fantastic all around!
4343155500	By far het beste boek van 2021. Ik hou echt zielsveel van deze serie! En dat einde is terug halkjfdlnvbhziuearjoqnvihufi!!! Mijn volledige recensie in begrijpbare taal kan je hier lezen: https://axellesbooks.wordpress.com/20...
8016479757	3.5⭐تو این جلد، ال تصمیم میگیره همه رو تو سالن فارغ‌التحصیلی نجات بده و حتی حاضره این وسط جون خودش و اوریون رو هم فدا کنه.پلاتش به اندازه‌ی جلد اول خوب بود، منتهی هنوز هم اون اطناب کلام رو توش میدیدیم که یه جاهایی دیگه داشت من یکی رو دیوونه میکرد. علت امتیاز پایین هم همین مونولوگ‌های درونی ال بود.تو این جلد، ال دیگه با خودش روراست میشه و میفهمه که آدم خیلی خیلی خوبیه (برخلاف پیشگویی‌ای که براش شده) و کلی دوست جدید پیدا میکنه (هر چند که هنوزم زبون دخترم تند و تیزه :)) همینطور، روابط اوریون و ال هم قوی‌تر شد و ما نشونه‌هایی از علاقه‌ رو تو ال هم دیدیم، علی‌الخصوص با در نظر گرفتن اینکه ال خیلی آدم تودار و سرسختیه و حاضر نمیشه حتی پیش خودش به احساساتش اعتراف کنه.برسیم سر وقت ترجمه؛ این جلد ترجمه‌ی بهتری داشت ولی هنوز هم کلی مشکل نگارشی داشت :) توصیه‌م به نشر... لطفا از یکی دو تا ویراستار استفاده کنین...قرار یود جلد آخر رو نخونم چون واقعا مونولوگا اذیتم میکرد ولی اتفاقی که آخر این جلد افتاد اجازه نمیده :)
4324789472	This series is not good. It's not good in multiple ways, but let's just start from the beginning. The main characters are about to graduate from the Scholomance and that means they need to find a way to do it without dying to a horde of monsters. Simple, right? The thing about the Scholomance is that it is fucking awful. The food is shit and poisoned, you can't leave and there aren't even windows or a yard or anything, you have to do basically impossible schoolwork, including just super quick learning about 70000 languages, you can't get any belongings in once you enter, everything from showers to getting stationery from the closet is dangerous. It's so DUMB. It's so unnecessarily bleak and edgy and "badass". I just can't stand this whole thing of everything being bad and literally a whole world being invented just to be so emo about it. And honest, it's not even well thought out. Half the book is spent on El mentally going through things to somehow patch up the gigantic stupid plotholes in this unnecessarily edgetastic nonsensical world. It's bad writing to keep telling and barely showing Like yeeeeah, totally, it's productive to fucking get the kids murdered for going to grab some fucking pencils. That develops their skills in... what exactly? Another thing is the super unhealthy relationship between El and Orion. She keeps shitting on him and acting like a colossal bitch, but then gets territorial and hates others for being dicks to Orion. Or being too nice to him. Or being anything, because the only person who gets Orion is her and her alone and that is why she keeps calling him names. Just because the magical world is shitty and corrupt doesn't mean her being shitty to him is any less of a bad thing. Such a typical abusive thing. Before anyone start, NO, I do not care about life being shitty for El. That is no reason to be an ass to Orion. Who is an okay character. But his name is Orion Lake. Literally the stupidest, most fan fiction name EVER. Things were also repetitive. How many scenes of characters going through an obstacle course do we really need? How many mentions of them going to lunch or to the bathroom together? How much stream of consciousness BLAH BLAH BLAH? The last scene had some nice things, that was okay, but this whole idea is just half-baked, kept somewhat afloat by constant expositional inner monologue. Like did the author just realise in book two that the food the kids eat needs to come from somewhere? Honestly, it's not good. It's focusing on an aesthetic social media fad (dark academia) and the substance is not there.
4693797357	Book 1 (A Deadly Education) spoilers!! 4.4/5 stars!! I loved this second book. Since the 1st book really took its time in laying down the foundation of the Scholomance and how everything works, this novel was able to just jump right into the thick of things. This novel focuses much more on El’s character development as she is no longer a loner. Not only do we see her plan for escaping the Scholomance at the end of graduation, we also see her try and navigate her new relationships. El has friends for the first time, and I mean genuine friends. Friends that she can talk to, friends that have her back, and friends who don’t see her as transactional. The bond she builds with Liu and Aadhya is so refreshing. Seeing El go from struggling to even say the word “friends” to gossiping late night about boys and expressing her feelings to them was such a pleasant development. Not only that, but El’s relationship with Orion also grows. However, as her feelings for him grow stronger, she is constantly reminded of her mothers words: “Keep far away from Orion Lake.”We also learn a lot more about Orion in this novel. He truly begins to open up and confide in El. We also see how much he cares for her, as he grows protective of her, but also admires her strength. It’s quite heart warming. Orion explains his history, why he is like he is, and just being genuine for the first time. The two share so many cute moments.El was an absolute badass. I don’t know how anyone could not like her. She attempts to do the unimaginable, all for kids who hated her in the last book. El truly is one of a kind. The leadership and power she shows in this novel is a treat, one in which I appreciated dearly.The big showdown left me with goosebumps. We see these wizards who hated one another show each other love, loyalty, appreciation, and teamwork. Most notably, we see the Scholomance kids show selflessness. ps. Once again the last line of this book has me hooked and so excited for book 3, coming out later this year!!
3631090829	I'm honestly always confused by how much I love this series as it really screams something I wouldn't. But the characters in this story have gripped my heart and they just pull on the heart strings. I really liked how we got to see El learn a lot of important lessons in this one. Book two is truly a story about friendship and learning that it's better to have friends and be loved, work together then be alone. That we are stronger together. And I loved seeing El and her friends learn this. This story shares such an important message for young adults to learn. I do think we had some minor pacing issues in this but overall I just had an incredible time. If you didn't like the first one I don't recommend continuing. But if you did it just continued what we love from the first. I have an entire one book vlog on my channel where I read this if you want more in depth but spoiler free thoughts https://youtu.be/94TOX1Zj1U4
4830947513	3.5 ☆Summary for anyone in need because they got confused by the plot:https://the-bibliofile.com/the-last-g...
5505297819	The second book in the Scholomance series finds Galadriel (El), Orion, and the rest of the senior class preparing for their most dangerous feat; trying to develop a plan to stay alive and escape the monsters awaiting them as they make a final dash through the graduation hall. El's prodigious (and no longer secret) power as a maleficaria may be the key to helping her fellow students survive. Could the Scholomance itself want her to succeed? Fans of the Harry Potter series, who find magical duels thrilling and enjoy a quirky romance, will love this book! – Louisa A.
4162074730	*Thank you to DelRey for sending a copy my way for review!*The main problem I had with this one that brought my rating down significantly like the first book is that for some reason I can’t gel with the style of writing used here. It just completely overshadows my love for all of the other elements and made it so difficult to read. A slog of info-dumps and very intense internal monologue made for very slow pacing. It didn’t help that the plotline in this book was very repetitive - they spent hundreds of pages doing the same thing on repeat. I’ve read that this book is sort of a bridge between book one and three and you can really tell, I’m not sure we needed 400 pages of it. Having said that, I absolutely love everything else about it and have basically no complaints.I loved the development we get to see in El here and I feel like we actually get to know her a lot better and get an opportunity to understand the complexity of her character. Again, I loved her internal monologue. She's great as a narrator - very witty and sarcastic which kept me entertained through the dry spells in the writing. It was wholesome to see her interact with the other characters and slowly become more open. There really is now an element of found family in tis series which I would like pushed further. It’s one of my favourite tropes and if it’s opened up in here it would work so well. Speaking of relationships, I loved watching the romance between El and Orion. We finally got the content we deserved and though it’s such a slowburn the payoff was so worth it. There was actual open and honest communication between the two of them and some real vulnerability. They were my favourite scenes to read honestly. The friendship development in this book was great but the romantic bits took the cake for me. Again, it remained pretty back seat so it didn't overshadow the rest of the story but I really enjoyed it and can’t see where it goes in the final book.Gonna be honest I still don’t think I’ve grasped the fantasy or world of this at all and the logistics of what is going on baffles me, however I do really enjoy it. I think it’s well done, it’s very creepy and just overall an enjoyable series.What on EARTH WAS THAT ENDING though?!? Somehow, it was a worse cliffhanger than the first book. I need answers.
5721182705	امتیازم به این کتاب ۳.۵ هست.در واقع کتاب اول، یعنی تحصیلات مرگبار از دومین کتاب مجموعه، آخرین فارغ التحصیل، برام جذابیت بیشتری داشت.کتاب اول شخصیتی رو معرفی میکنه که برای من شخصا کارکترش به سرعت در لیست محبوب‌ترین شخصیت‌های دنیاهای فانتزی که ازشون داستانی خوندم قرار گرفت و از کتاب دوم انتظارات بیشتری در جهت حفظ این محبوبیت داشتم. انتظار شاخ و برگ بیشتر و هیجان‌انگیزتری از توسعه و پرداخت در مورد این کارکتر و راستش کمی برام نا امید کننده ظاهر شد.شاید یکی از نقاط ضعف این مجموعه روایت اول شخص اون باشه. هر چند که همین موضوع در کتاب اول برام لذتبخش بود ولی در کتاب دوم پرسه زدن مداوم در ذهن پرخاشگر شخصیت اصلی داستان گاهی خسته‌کننده و حوصله سربر میشد.علی‌رغم این موضوع بازهم کتاب دوم لحظات مفرح کم نداشت و همچنان جذاب‌ترین بخش داستان برام نگاه نویسنده به مقوله‌ی جادو، نحوه استفاده و توسعه‌ی جادو توسط کاربرش و از همه مهمتر خود مدرسه‌ی جادو یعنی اسکلومنس بود.در واقع برای من، قهرمان داستان خود مدرسه‌ی جادو هست و نه هیچ کدوم از شخصیت‌های ماجرا 🤓🤞بهرحال از خوندن این کتاب هم، مثل کتاب اول، کلی لذت بردم...
4152470114	When sequels start off exactly where the last book ended it makes me so happy as I dislike time jumps so much. This book was far easier to read and understand than the first however there is a little bit of repetitiveness in terms of the actions by them working on a project for months. I really enjoyed El’s character development throughout this book and her internal monologue makes me laugh as I find it is from one extreme to another. I can’t believe the cliffhanger was that bad I need the next book asapThank you Del Rey for sending me a proof copy of this book!
4211367495	The world of the Scholomance is so well conceived- it’s a real pleasure to reimmerse myself in that world. El is in a much stronger position now and negotiations for trade offs, alliances, producing and using mana remain the focal point of daily school life. Be warned: there’s a big cliffhanger at the end- becoming somewhat a trademark of the series! Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
