1571045374	Update 2025:Gansey was really something to behold on this reread.Update 2020:With my local library closed down, I’m stuck with the books on my bookshelf so I opted to reread my favorites. And it just hit me that I reread this book on April 24th aka the date that set off the gangsey! Coincidence? I think not.There’s nothing quite like returning to the first book in a series to discover the neatly laid path of easter eggs that will come to resurface in the books to follow in the series.The scene that hit me most was with the hollowed-out vision tree where Blue foresees her kiss with Gansey. I just recalled reading that for the first time wondering if it would be mirrored in the finale. How tragically beautiful that it was. Also, how has it been four whole years since I reread this series. That seems impossible when I remember so vividly opening the first book waiting to be impressed. Oh, how I was. My original review below says it all:“She wasn’t interested in telling other people’s futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own.”This review contains *spoilers*.I went into this book expecting to hate it, but I was truly surprised by it— right from page 1.I read the prologue before I went to bed and I had to convince myself to put it down because I knew if I wouldn’t, I’d be extremely sleep deprived the next morning. It was so good. And it was constantly on my mind the next morning, I kept thinking about that fateful moment when I could just sit down and read it. I finished The Raven Boys in 2 sittings (although reading it at night was extremely scary for me).This book follows the events of Blue Sargent. Every year, Blue stands next to her clairvoyant mother as the soon-to-be dead walk past. Blue herself never sees them—not until this year, when a boy emerges from the dark and speaks directly to her.His name is Gansey. “There are only two reasons a non-seer would see a spirit on St. Mark’s Eve, Blue. Either you’re his true love,” Neeve said, “or you killed him.” “It wasn’t a night for her ordinary eyes. It was a night for seers and psychics, witches and mediums.”“In other words, the rest of her family."I loved Blue’s family. They captured my attention in the prologue and were the reason that I had to finish this book.I was so intrigued by them, they reminded me of my favorite family in The Strange and Beautiful Sorrows of Ava Lavender.I love it when I find books with families similar to The Strange and Beautiful family. There are also no words that can describe how much I appreciated Blue’s mother, Maura.“The predictions that came out of 300 Fox Way were unspecific, but undeniably true. Her mother had dreamt Blue’s broken wrist on the first day of school. Her aunt Jimi predicted Maura’s tax return to within ten dollars. Her older cousin Orla always began to hum her favorite song a few minutes before it came on the radio.”This book is mainly told from the perspectives of Gansey and Blue.Gansey is on a quest that has encompassed three of his closest friends: Adam, the scholarship student who resents all the privilege around him; Ronan, the fierce soul who ranges from anger to despair; and Noah, the taciturn watcher of the four, who notices many things but says very little.I love books where we get multiple main characters.But it took me a few chapters to get used to Gansey’s voice. His chapters felt a little slow-paced compared to Blue’s.Initially, the only thing that made his chapters more interesting was when Ronan showed up. I found his character to be a lot more compelling than Gansey’s. I really cared for Ronan (especially when he took care of his raven, Chainsaw)“What’s her name?” Blue asked. Holding her was frightening and lovely; she was such a small, tenuous little life, her pulse tapping rapidly against Blue’s skin.Adam answered witheringly, “Chainsaw.”The raven opened her beak wide, goggling even more than before.“She wants you again,” Blue said, because it was clear that she did. Ronan accepted the bird and stroked the feathers on the back of her head.“You look like a super villain with your familiar,” Adam saidRonan’s smile cut his face, but he looked kinder than Blue had ever seen him, like the raven in his hand was his heart, finally laid bare.”But the more I got into the story, the more my love for the characters grew. They all added something so heartbreaking to the story. The only time I remember really smiling (instead of crying) was when Gansey and Blue interacted with each other, they were so comfortable with one another and incredibly funny. I loved them. “Sorry that I’m late,” said the boy in front, with the square shoulders. The scent of mint rolled in with him, just as it had in the churchyard. “Will it be a problem?”Blue knew that voice.She reached for the railing of the stairs to keep her balance as President Cell Phone stepped into the hallway.Oh no. Not him. All this time she’d been wondering how Gansey might die and it turned out she was going to strangle him.”Blue was a great protagonist, she is one of the most unique females I've ever read. She is vulnerable but tough. She is clever but has moments of doubt. And her relationships with her family is heartwarming, especially with her mother.“Blue could’ve happily had any number of friends. And she had tried. But the problem with being weird was that everyone else was normal.So her family remained her closest friends, school remained a chore, and Blue remained secretly hopeful that, somewhere out there in the world, there were other odd people like her. Even if they didn’t seem to be in Henrietta.”And Adam Parrish broke a little piece of my heart. I was crying when I found out why Adam didn’t show up at school the morning after Gansey called him at midnight about Ronan being missing.And when Gansey came to check on Adam, I was just in tears. I was so emotional. That part hit too close to home.I had to put down the book for a few minutes just to try and calm down.(Trigger Warning: Domestic Abuse)“The ripped knees of Adam’s camo cargo pants appeared first, then his faded Coca-Cola T-shirt, then, finally, his face.A bruise spread over his cheekbone, red and swelling as a galaxy. A darker one snaked over the bridge of his nose.Gansey said immediately, “You’re leaving with me.”“It will only make it worse when I come back,” Adam told him.” But towards the end when Adam was confronted by his hideous father, and Ronan came to save Adam— there were tears just streaming down my face (I was so thankful that I was home alone).I love Ronan. And I’m so emotional.“His father bellowed something else at him, but it was into his left ear, and there was nothing but a roar on that side.“Do not ignore me,” his father growled. And then, inexplicably, he turned his head from Adam, and he shouted, “What do you want?”“To do this,” Ronan Lynch snarled, smashing his fist into the side of Robert Parrish’s face. Beyond him, the BMW sat, the driver’s side door hanging open, headlights illuminating clouds of dust in the darkness.”Ronan's reply broke me. The Raven Boys was definitely a book that astonished me with its beautiful writing style, memorable cast of characters, and complete uniqueness. I love books that can surprise me with how good and eccentric they are.Also, this song really fit the mood of the book for me.4.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying The Raven Boys, just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!* This review and more can be found on my blog.
1549842973	THIS BOOK IS MIRACULOUS.There are psychics and ghosts and very human characters and boys in private-school uniforms and ravens and magical places and sentient trees. There’s magic and a badass girl and my new favorite boy and Latin and a refurbished warehouse that makes for a very scholar-cute apartment and Welsh mythology and a pizza restaurant. https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...In short, sososososo many things I am always thrilled to see. Every time a ghost or a psychic or a well-described setting - or, okay, yes, a pizza restaurant - shows up in anything I read it’s an absolute pleasure.But I haven’t even gotten to the best part.The most miraculous of all these magically miraculous miracles? THERE’S BARELY ANY ANGST OR ROMANCE.Yes, there’s a decent amount by most standards, but amongst YA it doesn’t even rank!(Which is why it’s just so confusing to see the top review of this book lamenting its status as just-another-paranormal-romance. I hate paranormal romance. This isn’t that.) (Okay, Goodreads is telling me this is categorized as both “Fantasy > Paranormal” and “Romance,” so I guess it is that. But it doesn’t feel that way at all.) (Did I skip past roughly 100 collective pages of arm-brushing and gooey looks and that middle school phenomenon wherein the absolute prime flirting strategy is stealing a boy’s hat? Because I would never in a million years categorize this as a romance.)But I will force myself to digress.I’m going to give a teeny lil synopsis of this book for y'all who somehow managed to not know about it, but I went in blind and had a good time and I say it’s good to do that. If you feel like it.Lil synopsis: There is Blue, who comes from a household of all women who are all psychic; she is the exception to the latter, but she amplifies other people’s power. There is also Gansey (insert one THOUSAND heart-eyes emojis here), who is searching for a thing called the “ley line,” essentially a magical place. Gansey has friends! Adam, who is on scholarship and who has a cruuuush on Blue; Ronan, who is an asshole with a dead dad; and Noah, who is small and cute. Blue, who cannot see ghosts, sees Gansey’s ghost, which means that he’s going to die soon and that she’s either his love or his killer. Oh wait also, if Blue kisses her true wuv then the kiss-ee dies. So those two scenarios are not exactly mutually exclusive.End synopsis.I have a few small complaints about this book to get out of the way before we can fangirl more about it. (This is a four-star review, after all, so I really don’t know what you expected. I’m not one of those illogical psychos who rates a book anything other than five stars while screaming “ABSOLUTELY PERFECT I LOVED IT” through a megaphone.)Complaint numéro un: I don’t like Ronan. And I don’t get why people can after just this book.There’s nothing?? To him?? He’s just mean and tragic. Like, you know, every other YA male ever. This is quickly becoming one of my least favorite tropes. Quickly typing “total d*ck, but handsome and damaged” as a character description just does not do it for me.I’m semi-open to the idea of appreciating Ronan in future books, because this book has done well in both conforming to and subverting other clichés, but I’m not excited about his character at all.(GANSEY, ON THE OTHER HAND, I AM VERY EXCITED ABOUT. But I have a liiiiiittle more complaining to do first.)Complaint numéro deux: I am very worried that Maggie Stiefvater may hate other women.I read Shiver (and maybe its sequel?) long ago, and it wasn’t exactly feminist central. And this book manages to hate on girls in a way that is both subtle and jarring. From the basic fact that Blue is the only girl worthy of entry into the exclusive club of Gansey/Ronan/Adam/Noah, to the frequent references to the interchangeability of Declan’s blonde girlfriends, it was really unsettling. Because I so badly wanted to like this!!Also, can I just say: as a blonde teenage girl, I AM SO F*CKING SICK OF OUR YOUNG ADULT REPRESENTATION. It’s like you can’t have light hair and be under twenty and exist in a book without being utterly vapid. Can you just please be nice to girls. Guh.So that’s a big complaint.Some smaller issues I had: This book had to grow on me. The pacing was weird. I liked the language but sometimes the sentences were slightly wrong, which, again, subtle but jarring. Sometimes choppy or abrupt.Except #2, these negatives could go away relatively easily in the other books, AND THEN I CAN GIVE FIVE STARS. Yay! I want to do that so badly. But goddamn I am extraordinarily worried about that second one.BACK TO THE POSITIVES!I’ve said this pretentious jargon before, and I will here say it again: young adult stuff is very rarely remarkable in style. Occupational hazard, I guess. This is probably a good thing, because it doesn’t distract from any plot-centric narrative and because not everyone likes metaphorical language. Just look at all the people who wrongly didn’t care for I’ll Give You the Sun.BUT I LOVE LYRICAL WRITING AND I LOVED THIS AND STIEFVATER’S WORDS ARE SO BEAUTIFUL. I’m pretty tempted to read everything she’s ever written now. (If the girl-hate lets up, that is. Goddamn.)This also could have REALLY easily been dumb. Like, Blue whining about wanting to kiss a cute boy, which would have made me want to scream at her that a steamy makeout sesh with a private school kid does not exactly equate to the value of a human life. But she never questions or even laments it, really. She’s just like, Nah.Respect.Noah was really flat for about three-quarters of this book, but then he is the cutest smallest thing and I love him.BUT NOT AS MUCH AS I LOVE MY NEW HUSBAND. (This is Gansey.)I love Gansey sosososo much. I don’t know if I’m not supposed to, or if he’ll turn suck-y or whatever. (I feel like it’s one of the two, because the reviews I’ve skimmed have been Adam fangirl-y or Ronan fangirl-y, but I haven’t seen any Gansey love.)Gansey is so charming and such a great friend and he CARES ABOUT PEOPLE SO MUCH. Also he owns a renovated warehouse that is said to look like it’s occupied by a crazed scholar or a mad scientist, and he carries a massive journal detailing his journey to find magic, and in that amazing building he OWNS, there’s a cardboard recreation of the town.And he’s rich as hell. (Even in fictional boyfriends I am practical.)I’m in love, you guys. It’ll be an autumn wedding.DON’T YOU DARE RUIN THIS FOR ME, STIEFVATER.I feel like Adam is the most human of the characters. He’s flawed more realistically. I like him. This book was just so fascinating and unique and great. Avoids a lot of the pitfalls of young adult books that make me hate them. UNFORTUNATELY, it still checked the vaguely-sexist box.I hope the next book is even better.(I’m already reading it.)Bottom line: Everyone should definitely give this book a try. It totally won’t be for everyone especially blonde girls named Ashley, but it’s sooooo-ooooooo-ooooooo outside of the YA box.Hurray for fantasy series with potential!--------------------rereading updates(Sweet Caroline voice) so good! so good! so good!--------------------rereading updates againno better way to spend Halloween than rereading this book--------------------pre-reviewcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcoolcool.review to come--------------------currently-reading updatesIT'S FINALLY HAPPENING.
2177680843	"She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own." You know that feeling when a book is so perfect that you just want to shove it down everyone's throat? Ok. Good. I thought I was the only one. I adored this book. I've already read this series twice and am itching to go through them again. So, begs the question, what is this book about? And that's where I start to stumble. There's just too much, I could never adequately describe it in under an hour - every little detail is essential. "Blue had two rules: Stay away from boys, because they're trouble, and stay away from raven boys, because they were bastards." Blue is the only normal girl in a family of psychics. Gansey is on a quest to find the long-lost Welsh King. Ronan came out a harsher, crueler version of himself after his father died and is struggling to keep his head above water. Adam fights to stay at top of his class despite being in the throws of poverty. Noah is an absolutely magnificent ray of sunshine on a cloudless day.It's a love story. BUT the love isn't your typical romantic ooey-gooey teen romance. It isn't that end-all be-all ROLL MY EYESkind of love. Yess, there is some ooey-gooey-ness but that develops slowly - not in the 'ugh, this is taking too long', but the kind that has you clutching the book, silently savoring the build and secretly wishing it could last forever. Plus, there's the spot-on humor. "You missed World Hist."“Did you get notes for me?""No", Ronan replied,"I thought you were dead in a ditch.” and this "Blue tried not to look at Gansey's boat shoes; she felt better about him as a person if she pretended he wasn't wearing them." and this! Adam asked, “What is he doing, anyway?”“Peeing.”“Trust Lynch to deface a place like this five minutes after getting here.”“Deface? Marking his territory.”“He must own more of Virginia than your father, then.”“I don’t think he’s ever used an indoor toilet, now that I consider it.” Honestly, if anyone asks me what to read next... Seriously! I could not recommend this more.Audiobook CommentsProbably the best audiobooks I've ever heard. Each characters has a speaking voice, an inside-their-heads-voice and as they get scared, nervous, etc their tone will change, sometimes picking up a suppressed accent or clipping their words subtly. This reader is a master.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
1046525685	Quirky loner girl meets privileged rich boy(s). Forbidden love and angst ensue.I seem to have this habit. For the past couple of years, I've mostly been deliberately avoiding paranormal YA from authors I don't already love. The genre is a hard sell for me, filled with tropes that lead to low ratings and irritated reviews. But really, what tends to happen is this: the first book comes out and I avoid it, look the other way as other bloggers get excited and fangirl over the upcoming sequel. Then the next book appears and more positive reviews roll in and, I admit, I start to get curious. But I ignore it. Then the third and often final book is about to be released and everyone is so damn enthusiastic that I... just... have to... check the series out. Yes, I am a fool. I am that cliche about the cat and curiosity.It's sad because I love a good paranormal tale, but I don't know if I'm just getting too old and cynical to read these supernatural romancey teen books. Either that or I've read one too many. Because I am honestly not sold on the big dilemma in this book.Basically...If Blue and Gansey kiss: he dies.If Blue and Gansey don't kiss: he lives....um, I’m not really seeing a difficult decision to be made here. The only thing I'm seeing is a whole lot of melodrama and names that make the characters sound like horses.I know, I know, TRU WUV and all that, I am so cold. Well, forgive me if I’m not caught up in this emo love angst, but could you please get over yourselves, choose life, and go find someone else. But no, of course not, because this book is largely about the will they/won’t they, which is also likely what the following novels are about too.There is some good writing at points and a decent ghostly atmosphere; though I'm still not convinced two stars isn't leaning towards generous. The complex plot that has been so praised by critics and bloggers just bored the hell out of me. I guess it's imaginative in some sense and I haven't heard anything quite like it before - props for that - but it was soooo slow. And it seemed to take forever for the author to reveal WHY the Raven Boys were searching for some Welsh king, so I had no reason to invest in their mission. “She wondered what it would’ve been like to kiss this hungry, desolate boy.” And yes, then we have Mr and Mrs Angst. The usual relationship/love drama aside, I found it so difficult to like these characters. I have a hard time finding sympathy for a rich white boy with his own apartment and vintage car (at seventeen!), who wants to kiss a girl but can't. Blue isn't much better... overly quirky outcast - i.e. SPESHUL - who makes her own clothes and judges people she doesn't know. I kind of despise them both.But it's my fault. I knew it was a bad idea. I suck. Please don't hate me, I brought a cat gif:Blog | Leafmarks | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
1257674630	4.5/5Reread in 2017:I loved it so much more the second time! Every character was unique and fleshed out and I fell in love with them all! Well, most of them. Can't wait to pick up The Dream Thieves!Book 34/100 of 2015:I really enjoyed this! I came into this book not knowing anything about the plot, just that there were some weirdly named kids and something about ravens. It was a little difficult to get into as I had no idea where the plot would go and it was just overall pretty slow. However, halfway through it really picked up and surprised me! I will definitely be picking up the next book sometime in the near future.
1144775976	I've never read something quite like this. I loved how Blue talks with her mom, how Gansey is protective towards the boys, how Noah pats Blue's hair, how Ronan takes care of Chainsaw, how Adam talks to Blue. This book is the definition of found-family trope.
1276207720	This is favourite series of all time. I can't even write a review about it, I would just end up copying the entire novel down verbatim and saying, "This is my favourite part. And this part. And that part. And that quote and these characters and all of it and everything forever and always."
1418071131	“You're looking for a god. Didn't you suspect that there was also a devil?” Instant new favorite!!Psychics. Ghosts. Spirits. Sleeping kings. Legends. Enchanted forests. And a cursed romance. Maggie Stiefvater is an artist, ladies and gentlemen! “Blue Sargent had forgotten how many times she'd been told that she would kill her true love.” I was spellbound by this hauntingly beautiful paranormal tale since that very first sentence. Maggie Stiefvater narrates the story of how Blue Sargent met four strange boys, four boys she'd never expected she'd like or trust, but somehow she was caught in the middle of Richard Gansey's treasure hunt and she was the catalyst of every event that unfolded afterwards. Blue, Adam, Gansey, Ronan, Noah, they all had their fair share of secrets and pain, but only together they can unravel the mystery that cloaks their little town, from murders to paranormal activity and coincidences that are not coincidences. And Blue has to be careful, very careful, or else if she finds her true love in the face of one of the Raven Boys, she will cause his death. With one kiss. “She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own.” I wanted to read The Raven Boys for a while, but I was a little intimidated by the hype that surrounds this series. But it deserves it. While I've crossed paths with Maggie Stiefvater's books before, The Raven Boys took me by surprise. The foreboding, the hypnotizing and at times eerie ambience, the riveting plotline and the poetic writing, there was a sweet melancholy that settled in my heart and enchanted me. I could picture everything in blue, green and grey. The paranormal element was strong and gave me goosebumps, the characters' backrounds misty, and I couldn't help but inhale every word and feel the physical need to be part of the story, to join Blue and the Raven Boys in their adventures! “Aglionby Academy was the number one reason Blue had developed her two rules: One, stay away from boys because they were trouble. And two, stay away from Aglionby boys, because they were bastards.” While all the characters were fascinating, I felt a little detached when I read Blue's chapters, because she was mostly sensible and I didn't receive many emotions from her part. Surprisingly I didn't mind, her narrative was always interesting and I am positive I will establish a connection with her in the later installments! The boys though, well, they're a completely different story. Noah was the invinsible one, the shy and awkward boy who didn't speak that much, who was hurt and losing himself and I wanted to hug him and make everything alright for him. Ronan was cruel, rude, sarcastic and grumpy, but he had a caring side and he was so alluring, I wanted to know his secrets and the source of his pain, he was my second favorite character! Adam,well, I still haven't made up my mind about him. He was silent, always observing and calculating, he didn't deserve this life and all the burdens he had to carry, but I think he was unfair towards Gansey. Sometimes I thought the only reason he sticked around was the treasure hunt. I understand he had principles and didn't like charities, but he made himself feel inferior, not Gansey. He kept complaining that he couldn't understand him, because he was born privileged, but when did Adam try to understand Gansey? “My words are unerring tools of destruction, and I’ve come unequipped with the ability to disarm them.” Needless to say, Richard Campbell Gansey III was my favorite. Yes he could be condescending or ignorant, but his heart was made of gold, he could be wise beyond his years, he acted and spoke like an old man and was so, so passionate about his goal. He usually wore a façade that hid his inner depth, but one you glimpsed beneath his armor you couldn't help but love him! And for reasons unknown, I kept imagining him with an english accent. Admit it, it suits him perfectly!I won't talk about the romance because my ship has not sailed yet, but I think the foundations were set and I'm excited to witness Blue falling in love with the person she least expected! The Raven Boys added a new heart to their collection, a heart I willingly gave up! Oustanding job Maggie Stiefvater, you earned a new loyal fan!
1243645556	“Watch for the devil. When there’s a god, there’s always a legion of devils.”When I first read The Raven Boys a year ago, I never thought I would fall in love with it, and then all over again and again and again. I didn't expect it to turn out this way.I expected a cheesy romantic up-and-down relationship between Blue and Gansey. Ghosts and foretellings, sure, but definitely not this good. In fact, I expected an average teen fantasy novel, but Maggie Stiefvater did better than that. Much better. Because she has this unique fantasy and creativity. Four beautiful boys (not (only) talking about appearances), a talented out of this world family of seers, like never heard of before. A story so magical and incredible, I was bewitched from start to end.I loved the Wolves of Mercy Falls. But with this series Maggie Stiefvater wrote a way into my heart.Find more of my books on Instagram
1701508563	Bumping this up to 4 stars. I appreciated this story much more upon rereading it! I think when I first read this book, I had trouble comprehending the story and differentiating between the characters since so much was being introduced at once. Now it’s been easier for me to familiarize myself with the story, and I’ve come to appreciate the atmospheric way Stiefvater approaches the narrative and the depth in her characters. I still don’t feel emotionally attached to the story or the characters as I should be, which is why I’m not rating it 5 stars, but objectively I am very much aware of how this is a solid coming-of-age book and that it is well-written with endearing characters.
2061738415	”He felt raw: the chronicle of his fiercest desire stripped from him by force.”After finishing “The Raven Boys” I have about a thousand of questions, the most pressing one however is the following: Why did I wait so long to read this freaking awesome book??? I mean seriously!!?? What’s wrong with me!? How could I survive without knowing about “The Raven Cycle”?! I loved this book! It was so magical and mysterious and all the characters were so unique and well developed! What I loved the most was the way they interacted though! Those four boys have such a deep friendship it’s almost unbelievable! They care so much for each other, yet they all have their own troubles and worries that constantly seem to get in their way! Each and every single one of them is somehow broken, but together they are whole! Gosh!! I can’t even describe how wonderful they are but suffice it to say that this book is going to turn your world upside down! ;-) Well, that and your emotions! Jeez! This was such a roller coaster my hair is still messy and tangled from the ride! *lol*I guess to know what I’m talking about you just have to read the book and make this experience for yourself. I’m pretty certain the majority of you won’t regret it and I can almost guarantee that sooner or later you will realise that you’ve grown fond of “The Raven Boys” as well! ;-P They just have a way to sneak into your heart and once you’ve opened up there is no going back! XDThe plot:”More than anything, the journal wanted. It wanted more than it could hold, more than words could describe, more than diagrams could illustrate. Longing burst from the pages, in every frantic line and every hectic sketch and every dark-printed definition. There was something pained and melancholy about it.”Blue Sargent is the daughter of a psychic and has grown up in a family that knows and sees things others don’t. Every member of her family has a special talent and so does Blue! She’s some sort of supernatural amplifier and is able to strengthen the abilities of others, yet she can’t use her gift to see ghosts as well. Well, at least not until the night of St. Marks Eve when she meets the ghost of a boy named Gansey. Apparently the only reason she’s able to see him is because he’s her true love and before she even knows it, Blue is already smack in the middle of a magical quest that drives her straight into the arms of a group of four Aglionby Boys. There are only two problems: First, Blue swore herself never to get involved with any of the Aglionby Boys and secondly, there’s a rather dark prophecy that claims that she’s going to cause the death of her true love…The characters:”But Gansey was already grabbing the car keys to the Pig and stepping around his miniature Henrietta. Even though Ronan was snarling and Noah was sighing and Adam was hesitating, he didn’t turn to verify that they were coming. He knew they were. In three different ways, he’d earned them all days or weeks or months before, and when it came to it, they’d all follow him anywhere.” This is the moment where I tell you that you’ll be hopelessly spoiled if you continue to read my review! So consider yourself warned and proceed at your own risk! ;-P Gansey:”As always there was an all-American war hero look to him, coded in his tousled brown hair, his summer-narrowed hazel eyes, the straight nose that ancient Anglo-Saxons had graciously passed on to him. Everything about him suggested valor and power and a firm handshake.”Gansey is so precious!! He is some sort of mother hen and cares for all of his boys and I just couldn’t help but had to love him for it! Alone the way he expressed himself, how he spoke, what he thought and his journal, gosh how much I adored him for writing his journal!!! This boy is pure poetry and whenever I read his POV I was so intrigued that I just wanted to read even more! XD I loved how he worried about Adam, Ronan and Noah, how he knew that he appeared to be arrogant but still couldn’t seem to be able to change it. Oh, how he broke my heart! And then his story about the hornets’ nest!? Gosh it gave me the creeps!! I’m allergic to bees and wasps as well and when I was about eight years old I made a rather similar experience. *shudders* THIS hit way too close to home and I actually had to stop to read when he told his story! ARGH! I’m getting goose bumps just thinking about it! *lol* I really don’t know how he’s going to deal with Adam’s betrayal and I can’t wait to find out in the next book! I just hope their relationship isn’t broken because of it!! ”Adam was struck, as he occasionally was, by Gansey’s agelessness: an old man in a young body, or a young man in an old man’s life.””In the end, he was nobody to Adam, he was nobody to Ronan. Adam spit his words back at him and Ronan squandered however many second chances he gave him. Gansey was just a guy with a lot of stuff and a hole inside him that chewed away more of his heart every year."”My words are unerring tools of destruction, and I’ve come unequipped with the ability to disarm them. Can you believe I’m only alive because Noah died? What a fine sacrifice that was, what a fine contribution to the world I am.”Blue:I really liked Blue! She was so nice and kind and even though everyone told her to stay away from the boy’s she was just too curious to actually go through with it! *lol* I loved that she always tried to see the good in those four boys, especially Ronan! ;-P And it was sooo damn sweet how she interacted with Noah!!! =))) Those two were amazing! *lol* Whenever Noah patted her head I was like: Awww!I think I kind of low-key ship them even though I know that this is never going to happen! Haha! I’m really curious how Blue’s character is going to develop and I can’t wait to get to know her even better!Adam:”Unlike Ronan, Adam’s Aglionby sweater was secondhand, but he’d taken great care to be certain it was impeccable. He was slim and tall, with dusty hair unevenly cropped above a fineboned, tanned face. He was a sepia photograph.Oh, Adam!!! He’s such a precious cinnamon roll!!! I love this boy and I’m so sorry that he had to endure the abuse of his father!! How could he dare to hurt my precious boy so much??!! I could understand why Adam wanted to be independent and didn’t want to rely on Gansey! He wanted to do things his way and I respect that! Still, sometimes he was a little bit too stubborn for his own good and I really wish he would have accepted Gansey’s offer to live with him! I can’t bear the thought that he’ll never be able to hear on his left ear again and gosh I’m so glad Ronan came to his rescue and intervened!!! XD I think of all the characters in this book, Adam actually went through the biggest character development and I really hope that he’s going to be okay in the next book! I know why he woke the lay line but I’m worried about the price he’ll have to pay! >_<”The ripped knees of Adam’s camo cargo pants appeared first, then his faded Coca-Cola T-shirt, then, finally, his face. A bruise spread over his cheekbone, red and swelling as a galaxy. A darker one snaked over the bridge of his nose.Gansey said immediately, “You’re leaving with me.””It means I never get to be my own person. If I let you cover for me, then I’m yours. I’m his now, and then I’ll be yours.””Where do you live?” Adam’s mouth was very set. “A place made for leaving.”“That’s not really an answer.”“It’s not really a place.”Ronan:”Gansey had once told Adam that he was afraid most people didn’t know how to handle Ronan. What he meant by this was that he was worried that one day someone would fall on Ronan and cut themselves.”Well if that quote doesn’t describe Ronan perfectly then I really don’t know! XD Oh, man! That boy was so awesome! XD I loved his grumpiness and his attitude! Despite his rather mean and very honest statements he seemed to have a pretty soft side and even though it was hidden so well, there were still some moments when you could see it! =) I wish we would have gotten his POV as well, but I guess Maggie had her reasons to hold it back! Hopefully we’ll get Ronan’s POV in the second book though and if “yes”, you’ll certainly read it in my updates. *LOL* I’m curious to find out more about his background and I really want to know why he and his brother are at odds! AND what happened to his father?!! This question is still playing on my mind and I can’t help but wonder what happened when he found him! ”Ronan kept staring at Whelk. He was good at staring. There was something about his stare that took something from the other person.””You look like a super villain with your familiar,” Adam said. Ronan’s smile cut his face, but he looked kinder than Blue had ever seen him, like the raven in his hand was his heart, finally laid bare.Noah:”Noah, unlike his pristine room, always seemed a little grubby. There was something out of place about his clothing, his mostly combed-back fair hair. His unkempt uniform always made Adam feel a little less like he stuck out.”I’m so sorry that he’s a ghost! I already anticipated it because I picked up on the clues, but I really wish my perceptive mind would have been wrong! *sighs* I never liked Whelk and I can’t understand how he could kill such a nice and cute boy!! I mean he was his friend!!! Poor Noah! To be betrayed like that! Still, I’m glad they managed to get his bones to the church and I hope he’s going to be a permanent part of the next three books! =)”I’ve been dead for seven years,” Noah said. “That’s as warm as they get.””Can we go home? This place is so creepy.”The ships: Gansey & Blue :He paused, his smile wide and benevolent. “This is all down to you. Putting us on the line, finally. I could kiss you.”Though he was obviously joking, Blue skittered to the side.I loved those two right from the beginning! They have such a nice chemistry and I can’t wait to see how they’ll fall in love! Right now it doesn’t seem to be likely, but we all read about Blue’s vision in the tree and I have no doubt that they’ll actually end up together! I guess I’ll just have to wait and see what Maggie Stiefvater has up her sleeve! *lol* ;-P Ronan & Adam :Adam and Blue Who? *looks innocent*Ronan said, “I’m always straight.”Adam replied, “Oh, man, that’s the biggest lie you’ve ever told.”I know this is no official ship BUTI WILL GO DOWN WITH THIS SHIP!!!! I swear there were so many moments between Adam and Ronan and if they don’t get together in one of those four books I’m going to cry a freaking ocean!! I mean it!!! I’ll die if Maggie Stiefvater doesn’t work her magic with those two!!! THEY JUST HAVE TO BECOME CANON!!! Period!!! Enough said! XD *faints* ”As Adam stared at his lap, penitent, he mused that there was something musical about Ronan when he swore, a careful and loving precision to the way he fit the words together, a black-painted poetry.””He stroked Chainsaw’s head with a single finger and she tilted her beak up in response. It was a strange moment in a strange evening, and if it had happened the day before, it would’ve struck Adam that he rarely saw such thoughtless kindness from Ronan.”Artist credit: ranoki @ tumblrThe bottom line:I LOVED THIS BOOK!!! I loved it with all my heart and all my being!!! Maggie Stiefvater is a genius and I can’t wait to dig my claws into the next book!! XD“The Dream Thieves” I’m coming!!! P.S: Before I forget: This was a buddy read with the amazing Katherine and I’m so glad we could experience this together!!! You were the perfect buddy to read this book! ;-)
280313456	On a cold night every spring, sixteen-year-old Blue and her psychic mother wait in a churchyard for the dead to arrive. Her mother is usually the one who sees the spirits of people who will die within the next twelve months, but this year, Blue herself is startled by the sad, desperate sight of a boy named Gansey falling to his knees before her. "There are only two reasons a non-seer would see a spirit on St. Mark's Eve, Blue. Either you're his true love...or you killed him." With those chilling words, Blue is caught up in a mystery she never expected involving the privileged Raven Boys from Aglionby Academy. She must guard her heart closely, however, because Blue's always been told that she's destined to kill her true love with a kiss.If Edgar Allan Poe had taught the boys of Dead Poets Society, The Raven Boys is the type of tale he might've told, one that emerges through curl of smoke and excites with a flash of fire. This story, which seems to be loosely based on a real Welsh folk tale, is haunted by ghosts, invigorated by a fantastical search for a legendary sleeping Welsh king, and tinged with the frightening dark beauty of centuries-old magic.While the story starts out from Blue's point of view, the book is actually told in third-party omniscient style, a welcome change from the author's usual first person perspective, and a necessary one given the many characters we get to know, particularly the raven boys. Gansey, who is obsessed with the supernatural; Adam, who yearns for a life outside what he knows; Ronan, whose anger hides untold regret; and Noah, a troubled soul who knows more than he lets on. I loved the complicated relationship between these boys, from their good-natured jeers to their anxious concern for one another. There is a collegial feel to the book that I very much enjoyed, but beyond that, there is also a deeply felt connection and a mysterious synergy between the characters that I hadn't felt in the author's books since Shiver and Linger. It's a surprise to find that the strongest and most compelling facet of this novel isn't necessarily the romance--although that is also intriguing and incredibly complicated--but the brotherly love between this tightly-knit group of boys. (view spoiler)[The part where Adam is humiliated at the grocery store and the abuse just slayed me. I am a bigger fan of Adam's than of Gansey's at this point, shhhh.I also guessed what was going on with Noah, but it was still a pleasure to watch it unfold, particularly if you go back to the very beginning when he's first introduced. I did a happy wriggle in my seat when I re-read that part! (hide spoiler)]There are several mysteries going on, all of which aroused my curiosity. I have to admit, however, there are so many characters and plot lines to keep track of that the first half of the book was occasionally bewildering and a little maddening. As with The Scorpio Races, I also find some of the names a bit distracting since there are so many unusual ones (although I do like some of them, including the rather gloriously pompous "Barrington Whelk"), and the propensity to overuse proper nouns when a simple "he" or "she" would do occasionally tried my patience. While I think the novel would be stronger overall if it was a little more focused and lost some of its cluttering details, these are small nitpicks in such an imaginative book, and the whirlwind of the second half definitely rewards those who stick with it. I liked that we see more of the author's offbeat humor in this novel, and her gift for seeing beauty in ordinary things still moves me. The air moved slowly around his body, somehow tangible, gold-flaked, every dust mote a lantern. I'm happy to find another Maggie Stiefvater book that I like so much and I'm incredibly excited to see where this story goes next. That cryptic ending--and the loose ends with Blue's romantic destiny--will guarantee that I'll be one of the first people in line for the sequel.For fans of intelligent mystery and fantasy, this unkindness of ravens is well worth your time.This review also appears in The Midnight Garden. An advance copy was provided by the publisher.Win a Raven Boys ARCWe know we've been spoiling our readers with giveaways recently, but there are a ton of great books releasing this fall. Thanks to our friends at Scholastic Books, you can win a copy on the blog!Read the First Two ChaptersIf you'd like to sample this novel, the first two chapters are up on Entertainment Weekly as well.
1379378767	Easily the best book I've read all year. I've never read a book before where I love every single character equally. Blue: she is everything i aspire to be and i just want to be bffs with herGansey: yes plz Ronan: he's so scary and angry but you just know he secretly loves to watch cute cat videos Adam: he must be wrapped in a warm blanket and protected at all costsNoah: my precious cinnamon bun
1435503873	2025: still great2019: 4 years later, and my rating hasn't changed :)vlog (reading booksandlala's faves): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5L90v...
2005055354	"What happened was they drove to Harry’s and... Gansey ordered flavors of gelato until the table wouldn’t hold any more bowls and Ronan convinced the staff to turn the overhead speakers up and Blue laughed for the first time at something Gansey said and they were loud and triumphant and kings of Henrietta, because they’d found the ley line and because it was starting, it was starting.” (Artwork by Static)There was so much more to this book. What it was: a group of kids searching for a dead welsh king What we didn't know we needed in life: a group of kids searching for a dead welsh king What we got: a more than useless but frustratingly lovable orange car that drove a dead boy, a sarcastic asshole, a cinnamon role, a girl with a heart of sensible gold and Richard 'Dick' Gansey III. Wherein these group of misfits, don't find the dead welsh king yet. But find so much more, within themselves, within each other and in the beautiful world that Ms. Stiefvater has blessed us with. +boatshoes, trees that speak latin and a raven for a raven boy ____________________The Plot “You missed World Hist.""Did you get notes for me?""No. I thought you were dead in a ditch.” I loved quite literally everything about The Raven Boys. The only thing I'm going to start by saying is that the first half went a bit too slow for my liking, but straight after the halfway mark, I was so drawn in, if someone took the book out of my hand- I could have cut a bitch. I annotated the hell out of this one, because everything was meaning dense. We didn't just get words for the sake of it being a book. We got words for the sake of the story's importance. That for me, defines great writing. “Gansey's partying with his mother," Ronan said. He smelled like beer. "And Noah's fucking dead. But Parrish is here.” I loved the hell out of this gang. I could feel how connected they were to themselves and their adventures. For the first book, the plot really got me hooked, but besides the point - if this book was whole-heartedly character driven. I would be there, sitting, reading with the biggest fucking grin on my face. I am an avid romance reader, and although romance is a sub theme within this book - it isn't the focus. There are romantic elements but this was more on the lives of these teenagers / adults who are growing through the path of finding themselves through finding something else. (be it a dead king, or even the keys to the car). It gave me a really warm feeling in my chest, it reminded me so much of why I love YA, because no matter what age reads it - there's a message for everyone. 300 Fox Way I wish I could explain this part, and what it means to me - but it's going to be hard to put my feelings to words. Every single character (minor or major) in this book had an impact. To the extent, where we got not just characters playing an impact but objects, symbols, damn flora and fauna. It's such a bittersweet feeling knowing that somewhere out there, there is always something waiting to be found or known. Everything and everyone in this book was reaching for it, for their own reason. “if you had a special knack for finding things, it meant you owed the world to look.” So in a way, we all have our own Cabeswater. We all have our own Owen Glendower. We all have our own St. Marks Day. We all have our own 300 Fox Way. That's the beauty of this book. It took such a fantastical and non-sensical escapade and turned it into a life lesson that nearly everyone can look at and learn from. For this reason, I find it a shame that some people don't read. Fuck knows, they are missing out. “Excelsior”
1809050604	Raven Boys turns out to be more interesting that I thought it would be.I was reluctant to start this series, not only that most of the hyped YA series always disappointed me, this one also seems like a book written specifically for girls. Don’t kill me, here’s the fact and statistic. If I go to the front page of Raven Boys, out of my friend list (right now around 600), 200 of them has read and rated it. Out of those 200, only 13 of them consists of male. Yes, 13 out of 200, AND this is only because there’s a limit of 200 visibility of your GR friends rating that could appear in the front page of any book. This means there are actually more people from my friend list that already read and rated the book, I can’t even see anyone on my friend list that put it on their “TBR” on the front page and this is coming from someone’s friend list that consists mostly of adult fantasy fans. THAT’S how popular this book and series is. Luckily, I actually thought Raven Boys, the first book in the 'The Raven Cycle' series by Maggie Stiefvater is not bad at all.This book could honestly be a 4 star read from me but I can’t do that because of the first 150 pages. The plot for me started out immensely boring, cliché, and uninteresting. Hear me out, this is the premise, Blue must stay away from her true love and not kiss him because if she does, he’ll die. She's determined to do so until she met the Raven Boys, the ones from the local private school and her determination started wavering. That is seriously more or less the blurb, the prologue and what seems like may be the entire story at the beginning. I mean, how in the world would that intrigued any dude? You might as well put 'Reverse Snow White' as the blurb.But, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked. (Sorry, I had to do that.)This book got so much better somewhere in the middle when ALL the main characters, this is Blue and the 4 Raven Boys, finally meet.Picture: The main characters of the series fanart by CherryandsistersThe plot became more interesting. It’s atmospheric, bizarre and I’m seriously intrigued to find out how this book could become a 4 book series cause there seems to be not a lot to work on right now. However, my favorite part of the book definitely lies within its character interactions. “I guess I make things that need energy stronger. I'm like a walking battery.""You're the table everyone wants at Starbucks," Gansey mused as he began to walk again.Blue blinked. "What?"Over his shoulder, Gansey said, "Next to the wall plug.” I’m still in the first book and yet the characters personality felt so real to me already. Blue, Gansey, Adam, Noah and Ronan all have different personality and Maggie knows how to write their feelings and interactions really well. Also, a plus for Ronan's love towards Chainsaw, his new raven pet. “We have to be back in three hours," Ronan said. "I just fed Chainsaw but she'll need it again.""This," Gansey replied "is precisely why I didn't want to have a baby with you.” Maggie’s prose is also beautiful, although it takes a bit of time for me to get used to her style, once I’m used to it every word she wrote was pleasant to read. One last thing to note, this book is written in multi 3rd POV, and miraculously there's no “I let out a breath I didn’t realize I was holding” that seems to exist in almost every YA books, and despite the premise, romance is actually secondary to the main plot.Overall, Raven Boys is a good book to start the series. From what I gathered so far, the first book is just laying the groundwork and background for the characters and I can’t wait to see what the rest of the series has in store for me.This review is also featured on Booksprens where I'll be a guest reviewer for this series, check it out! :)You can find the rest of my Adult Epic/High Fantasy & Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
2367078851	weeeell, that sure was spooky. and went in a completely different direction than what i was expecting. but i will allow it because it was highly entertaining! and although, unfortunately, im not as obsessed with this as much of the GR community seems to be, i can understand why there is so much love for this book and characters. but the highlight for me is definitely the welsh folklore. yay for representation!! the mythology definitely kept me intrigued and i cant wait to see where the rest of the series goes with it. ↠ 4 stars
3738468368	3.75!“My words are unerring tools of destruction, and I’ve come unequipped with the ability to disarm them.” I actually have no clue what to write for this because I have never been this confused while reading like what was even happening?!? I thought it was only me but Buket was also feeling this and then we asked Hoda and she said she had the same experience lmaoo but this somehow made the book more enjoyable?? like I dont know how to put it into words but this book was definitely one strange book because it made me feel so weird like I couldn't really process the descriptions at times and everything would be so fuzzy. Honestly, the whole thing was like experiencing a fever dream but it had it's charms and I saw the potential and I know the other books in the series would hit more because the character already have me captivated. “Gansey had once told Adam that he was afraid most people didn't know how to handle Ronan. What he meant by this was that he was worried that one day someone would fall on Ronan and cut themselves.” Blue, I loved her the most!! she was so cute and honestly I loved her pov the most like no one else came close, I just formed an instant connection with Blue in this book and I am excited to see where her character arc will go from here. Gansey, he's such a posh cutie patootie, he did cross a line by saying what he said to Adam but I forgive him because he's the most sensible. Ronan 🫦 him with his buzz cut and limited emotions was so hot, him defending Adam was sooo good and I love that we're getting more of him in the next book because honestly I really enjoy reading about him. Noah, ehhh I dont feel much for him. In terms of romance, I ship BLUE AND GANSEYYYYY, Adam and blue dont have the same vibe or energy. “They were always walking away from him. But he never seemed able to walk away from them.” I liked the plot twist cuz I wasnt expecting it but PLEASE I would love if I was able to understand or comprehend some stuff!!Overall, it was enjoyable!!___This book had me and Buket confused throughout 🤣 but the vibes were immaculate.___This was literally the first book that I added to my tbr when I started my goodreads and I am so excited to read this!-Buddy reading this with Buket.
1712763842	Reread this for a reading log... didn't remember it as much as I thought!
1858462459	#1 The Raven Boys ★★★★★#2 The Dream Thieves ★★★★★#3 Blue Lily, Lily Blue ★★★★★#4 The Raven King ★★★★★#4.5 Opal ★★★★★“She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own.”All Blue's life, she's been surrounded by psychics: her mother, her aunt, her mother's live-in best friends. Blue can't predict anything, though - she's just an energy amplifier for everyone (and everything) around here. Her future has been set in stone for years. She will fall in love, and she will kiss her first love, and he will die.It's hard enough, when Blue sees her first vision: the boy she will kiss and kill, a boy named Gansey. The weirdness is only beginning, though, because Blue's paths will soon cross with Gansey's in his search for a dead king and magic, and she will be wrapped up into a whirlwind adventure even her psychic family couldn't have prepared her for.---ALL OF THE STARS FOREVER AND EVER AMENSeriously you guys, how did I not pick this book up sooner?! I am literally lamenting the fact that I have waited this long to begin this series - though, I'm also a little pleased, because I don't have to wait on book releases heh heh.I'm just going to jump right into a breakdown of what I thought of this beautiful book. (By the way, I'm starting a new review format with this one - let me know what you lovelies think!)BLUE ➳➳I honestly just love Blue to pieces. I feel so sorry for her about the fact that she's the only one in her family who isn't a psychic, but I love her little "amplifier" ordeal and her sass and witticisms are fantastic. If I met someone like Blue IRL, we'd totally be besties.THE BOYS ➳➳The boys are all so precious and perfect in their own ways. I love Gansey's self-awareness and awkwardness, as well as his ridiculous obsession that he manages to draw everyone else into. I love Noah's adorable smudgy self. I love Ronan's fierce protectiveness and his bitter attitude that is so obviously hiding this teddy bear interior. I love Adam's shyness and feelings of inadequacy. They're all just precious little cuties and I want to protect all of them. ❤THE PSYCHICS ➳➳How fun are the psychics?! Blue's mom is fun on her own, but I LIVED for Persephone's quiet oddity and Calla's snappy attitude and antics. It's so fun to watch their little predictions unfold, too. And then there's Neeve, who I have very mixed feelings on...PLOT ➳➳A bunch of teenagers on some quest to find a dead king in some magical woods, surrounded by the energy leftover from a bunch of dead people? Plus there are psychics and scrying and such? Count me in. I really thought the plot for this was fantastic (though admittedly a little bit confusing at the start for me, because I overthink things and spent the first few chapters wondering why it's so important to Gansey).WRITING ➳➳This was my first ever Maggie Stiefvater book, and I didn't know what to expect of her writing. A lot of my bookish friends had actually warned me that her prose was very lyrical and flowery, and to try to power through it, I guess? I could see where her writing could be unlikable by some standards, but I really enjoyed it! I found it to be just the right level of descriptive and vague, and I can't wait to read more of her work.FINAL VERDICT ➳➳5 stars, all day! I absolutely loved this book and have already purchased the second book in the series. I'm only sad that I have such a big pile of ARCs that The Dream Thieves will have to wait a couple of weeks, but I might end up caving and diving into it sooner, because I am just so in love with these characters already and I can't wait to find out where their adventure takes them next!June 2017 group read with Forgotten YA Gems
878629012	4.5 Really really liked this!
863221407	Diferente. Original. Arriesgado.Comenzar una nueva saga siempre es algo que haces con muchas ganas. Y más si, por ejemplo, no has parado de escuchar buenas críticas de ella. Con el libro comprado desde que salió a la venta he esperado 7 años a comenzar con la tetralogía The Raven Cycle. ¿Ha merecido la pena? ¡Os cuento!La saga de Los lobos de Mercy Falls de la misma autora me encantó. Su ritmo, su escritura, los personajes… Ya conocía el toque Stiefvater, por lo que no esperaba un libro sencillo y repleto de acción. Esperaba lo que es: detalles, calma, profundidad… En ese sentido, la autora lo da todo. No se deja ni el más mínimo detalle de ningún personaje sin mencionar, convirtiendo a cada uno de ellos un ente completo y perfilado.Esto, claro está, puede provocar dos situaciones muy comunes: aburrimiento y pérdida del interés. Sinceramente: me ha pasado en ciertos momentos. Aunque sabía a lo que me atenía, la trama y las descripciones/narración no avanzan al mismo ritmo, haciendo que la primera mitad de la novela sea bastante lenta.¡PERO CUIDADO! Una vez fue pasar el ecuador del libro… Wow. En shock. Todo encaja, los capítulos son más cortos, está lleno de sorpresas y giros, y por fin todo lo presentado en la primera mitad cobra vida. Arranca con todo y arrasa con todo. He disfrutado muchísimo de la segunda mitad del libro, de hecho, la leí de seguido, sin soltarlo ni un segundo.Los personajes principales de la novela, desde Ronan a Gansey, Blue, Noah o Adam son simplemente geniales. Al final todo cobra más dimensiones debido a las páginas que hemos tenido de ritmo lento pero llenas de descripciones. (DISCLAIMER: Tampoco quiero que penséis que en las primeras 200 páginas no pasa nada, porque sí pasa, pero a un ritmo mucho más pausado.) Por lo que una vez llegamos al tramo final, donde varias tramas colisionan, sabes perfectamente qué siente cada personaje, cómo se va a comportar…La profundidad de los personajes en este libro me ha hecho revivir sentimientos del pasado. Llevaba tiempo sin encontrarme un cast tan amplio y detallado al mismo tiempo -sin contar con Cazadores de Sombras, obviamente. Creo firmemente que en los siguientes libros voy a sufrir mucho con estos personajes, ya que desde el principio se conoce el destino de uno de ellos y claro… pues me veo llorando.Respecto al urban fantasy de este libro… ha sido algo que me esperaba de un modo completamente diferente. Me ha gustado mucho la introducción de tantos elementos de médiums, tarot y energías. El hecho de que tantos personajes tengan un sexto sentido pero no se ahonde demasiado en ello, para mantener el misterio. ¡Y es que la familia de Blue es una fantasía, por favor! Su casa es una locura y cada vez que había escenas en ella quería saber más y más. También me ha sorprendido y gustado mucho la trama de las líneas ley, por ser original en la literatura juvenil (y de nuevo, solo había leído sobre ellas en la saga Renacimiento de Cassandra Clare). Así que, en resumen: ELEMENTOS MÁGICOS ORIGINALES: ✅PERSONAJES INCREÍBLEMENTE BIEN PERFILADOS: ✅GANAS DE SABER MÁS: ✅Si no sois de ‘este tipo de libros’, no sé si es para vosotrxs. No vayáis buscando un libro que os enganche desde el principio, ni que sea rápido de leer. Buscad una lectura para desconectar e introducirse en Henrietta, Virginia. Buscad algo diferente, porque lo vais a encontrar.
1299591400	Re-read 10/2/18: Okay so I really love the setting and the tone and (most of) the characters but I CANNOT for the life of me wrap my mind around the “plot” of this damn book. I didn’t hate it but jfc NOTHING MAKES SENSE DON’T @ ME 7/15/15: Me the entire time I was reading this: ?????????????????????? (but in a good way, u feel me)
1336227555	I gave The Raven Boys 2.5 stars. I have a lot of feelings on this book, so be prepared for a massive rant.Recently, I've had a ridiculous amount of people recommend this book to me and I finally decided to pick it up. I listened to the audio book, and while I did enjoy it and was interested to see where things go, I definitely had a lot of problems with the book.Firstly, the plot of this book was always marketed to me as "This girl who is destined to cause her true love to die with a kiss", so naturally, that was a theme I was expecting to be really relevant in the book. I was really excited for an interesting, blistering, and somewhat "forbidden" or "cosmically doomed" romance, because who doesn't love that in YA? It's not that I thought the first book in a series would contain her falling in love, kissing the guy, causing him to die, and then come back to life so they can live happily ever after in just 300 pages, nothing like that. But I did expect it to be a major theme of the books, not just a concept that was mentioned every once and a while in the midst of an entirely different plot I wasn't aware of. Concerning the official synopsis, I think that would have made an interesting first sentence leading up to a summary of the actual plot, instead of making it seem like it comes up way more than it actually does. The book just went in an entirely different direction that I wasn't expecting and it definitely affected how I felt while reading it.The actual plot of the book just had me going "??????????????????????????????" constantly. I will admit, this is probably due to the fact that my expectations for this book were completely different than what actually played out. I feel that nothing at all happened for the first half of the book, and as the second half got more and more involved it felt very disconnected and a little peculiar for me. To be totally honest, I still don't fully understand what the story of The Raven Boys is meant to be. I understand a lot of little details, but not how they all come together. There are a lot of things I can set aside while reading, but not understanding what is going on for basically an entire book usually isn't one of them for me.I found myself having to rewind a SIGNIFICANT amount of this book and re-listen to it. For example, I had to listen to the two hours and the last hour of the book 3 times each to understand what was going on, and a multitude of chapters in between. As someone who has been listening to audiobooks more recently, I don't think this was attributed to the format; I'm pretty positive that had I read the physical book, I would have needed to reread a ton of it too. The format of the writing in this book just didn't feel like it flowed as continuously as I normally like. We had a lot of scenes that felt really nonsensical and didn't really add to the story at all in my opinion, which caused the scenes that WERE important to feel out of place and somewhat confusing. At this point, I'm not extremely attached to any of the characters. I really like Gansey. He is 100% my favorite character at the moment. I think he has an interesting story and I'm really excited to see more from him. As for Blue, I'm kind of indifferent. I like her at some points, but I don't really care for her character right now. And concerning the rest of the characters, I'm not attached whatsoever. It took me far too long to distinguish between the most of them, and after finishing this book, none of their personalities really jump out at me. I'm hoping for more character development in the future books, but the characters were a pretty weak point for me in the firs book.The romance, which again was what I perceived to be the main plot due to various recommendations and the official synopsis, was extremely unclear. One of the first scenes in the books is Blue meeting Gansey and she talks about how he HAS to be the one she falls in love with, but I really feel no actual feelings from either of them? I did get really excited during the scenes when they're together, especially the church scene which is definitely my favorite in the book, and I feel the chemistry, but it's so strange for me to see someone saying "I'm supposed to fall in love with this person" but not really have that portrayed. Blue repeats over and over about how she's meant to fall in love with him and how she wants to kiss him and all that, but I can't remember any points in the book where I found her suggesting there was anything more than friendship with a side of slight attraction, and the same goes for Gansey for me. Also, she's kind of seeing Adam throughout the book while she believes she's destined to fall in love and cause the death of his best friend? The whole situation just felt seriously under developed for me. I would've been fine with instalove, I would have been fine with a love triangle, a love square, a love hexagon and the like. But the romance in the book felt extremely vague to me and as a romance lover, I just wasn't a fan of it.Surprisingly, the one semi-positive thing I have to say is normally a negative thought in most of my reviews. I wasn't totally bothered by the multiple perspectives in this book! I say "not totally bothered" because it's not like I fell in love with them or seriously enjoyed them, but it wasn't a distraction like multiple POVs usually are for me.I have already started The Dream Thieves on audiobook, and had to restart it after 6 chapters again. I'm planning on completing the entire series, and I really do have high hopes that I will eventually enjoy it. I'm pretty underwhelmed at the moment, but I've seen so many good things that I definitely feel like I have the potential to really love these books. As first books go, this was on the lower end of favorites of mine. I'm fully aware that there is probably a lot that I misunderstood or missed entirely that may have affected my thoughts. If anyone wants to offer some clarification on things like the plot, the romance, or the characters below, please feel free! I've consulted a few people on this book and they've helped me understand some more, but at the moment, it's not enough for me to change my opinions. Overall, this book wasn't terrible, but it definitely wasn't an absurdly great read for me.
1274271462	Update 11/7/19:Rereading this series in October was one of the best decisions I've ever made. Update 10/4/17: as expected, I've upped my rating to a 5/5 and I'm frankly overwhelmed by the amount of foreshadowing in this book. Also I have like pages and pages of notes that I took this time around. I love all of these characters so much. Now onto my dream thieves reread!Update 7/17/17:I enjoyed this so much more on a second reading.Maggie Stiefvater's writing is utterly gorgeous. There are so many times when I'm reading that I have to stop and just think about a description a few times because it is so striking. Her writing is very visual, but it also makes you feel - her descriptions go beyond visuals or scents, they have feeling. And I think the feeling of those descriptions is so evocative that it just pulls you into the world all the more. When you really get into how the book is written, it is just incredible. Plus, the amount of one-liners that are so good you could (and plenty of people have) get them tattooed on your body is just ridiculous. "Safe as life", "Excelsior", "The trees speak Latin". I love them all. I feel like reading The Raven Boys a second time worked better because I was much more prepared for the type of story inside. I have heard all these little plot summaries (a quest for a Welsh king, searching for ley lines, a promise that if a girl kisses her true love he will die) but nothing really prepared me for the plot. It feels dreamy and otherworldly, and you really have to let yourself sink into that for it to work. I also loved all of the characters so much more this time, and I really felt like I got a much better handle on their relationships to each other as well as their actual personalities.Even knowing nothing about how the rest of this series is going to go, the foreshadowing in this book is so intense. Seriously, just a super enjoyable reread and I'm really glad that this time I get to jump directly into The Dream Thieves.
2617623876	Excuse me, I was NOT ready for this.I gave up my sleep for this book. Do I regret it? Not.one.bit. This book was so different. I know I say it after reading most books but it's not always you read that a girl sees a spirit of a dead guy who's either her true love or that she killed him, in the very first pages of a book.(Damn I've said books so many times now)Here's a brief description of the characters;Adam:he's P.R.E.C.I.O.U.S.Ronan: loved the guy's sense of humour. He's got this whole dark vibe. My favourite honestly. He was so cute with his raven I mean how can one not love him? Noah: dude doesn't talk much but if you know you know.Blue: proper friend material. Not one of those annoying female protagonist.Gansey: pure gold. His politness killed me.Blue's aunts: they're pretty chill. I love them!Maura: she hasn't got a lot going on upstairs but hey, we don't disprespect mamas here.Whelk: he's like the Silas ( from Da Vinci Code) of this book.It's got the right amount of humour, right amount of scary, right amount of thrill- just absolutely brilliant.I can't wait to get my hands on the next books. I mean I do have my hands on them I just haven't started but you know.
925237630	What a pleasant surprise! The writing, the characterization, the plot.. just all on point! I went in not really thinking I would enjoy it as much as everyone else does but I really loved it! I need to get my hands on the next book ASAP!
766488111	RE READ THIS BOOK AND OMG YES! LOVED IT A SECOND TIME ROUND
1453987155	[2016 first read] ★★★★★blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon
1950273430	“I don’t think these fish are real,” Gansey said softly.It was such a ridiculous thing to say that Blue turned to look at him again. He was tipping his hand back and forth as he watched the water.“I think they’re here because I thought they ought to be here,” Gansey said.Blue replied sarcastically, “Okay, God.” edit february 2021: it turns out this book has an immense power over me and I just can't resist its magnetic pull. Rereading this for the billionth time despite my huge tbr yelling at me, because I'm weak and because Gansey (and Leni) said I have to do it🤷🏼‍♀️ How is it that this book (the whole series, if we have to be precise) gets better every time I read it?? 🎶song: Third Eye by Florence + the Machine🎶 actual reviewI wish I could give this book all the stars. People who know me even just a little, know how much this book (this series, these characters, this story) means to me. It's my favorite book of all time, the comfort book I turn to when I'm sad, when I'm happy, when things go rough, when I need something familiar to remind myself I'm human and I'm doing whatever I can to survive. It's one of those books I could read over and over again and, even if I probably know it all by heart by now, I seem to discover something new about it every time. “The thing was, Henrietta looked like a place where magic could happen. The valley seemed to whisper secrets.” In this difficult moment, surrounded by so much pain, by all this confusion and noise, comforted by the presence of a wonderful man that unbelievably loves me enough to call me family, and my son's eyes that are always smiling at me like I'm the best person in the world, I thought a re-read was mandatory and I apparently did the right thing. It really helped and it made me escape this tough reality for a while. “How do you feel about helicopters?"There was a long pause. "How do you mean? Ethically?""As a mode of transportation.""Faster than camels, but less sustainable.” I did things a bit differently this time, though, because, even if I read this book at least 10 times in the last 8 years, for the first time I tried the audiobook. It was an amazing experience and the narrator did a great job, but nothing will ever compare to reading it all by myself and give Gansey, Blue, Adam, Ronan and Noah a voice only I know the sound of. “I probably can’t stop you from meeting him anyway,” Maura said. “I mean, if Neeve is right about why you saw him. You’re fated to meet him.” “Fate,” Blue replied, glowering at her mother, “is a very weighty word to throw around before breakfast.” Relaxing in Monmouth Manufacturing, riding the Pig at midnight, breathing Cabeswater's hair, walking along the Ley Line, unraveling mysteries about Glendower and finding clues with the Gang, are almost therapeutic for the soul and I don't even know where to begin explaining the extatic and at the same time peaceful state of mind I was in while listening to every chapter. I'm minimizing it, but if I had to give it a meaning, I'd say it was almost like coming back to a dear old friend to find them changed in a very positive way, but still nostalgically the same. “If I were a tree, I would have no reason to love a human.” In time I found out Maggie Stiefvater's writing is like a drug that gives you the best highs and the rudest downs, and that you can try forgetting about the emotions it gives you, but once her words enter your brain, they unleash something it's hard to control. I adore her humor and the way she describes things and characters like they're right in front of your eyes and the way she makes emotions so real you could almost touch them. “Where did you say you found that bird again?” “In my head.” Ronan’s laugh was a sharp jackal cry. “Dangerous place,” commented Noah. Henrietta, my safe haven, my dream place, I'm glad I came back to you.It's always a pleasure, and you looked as beautiful as ever.
2743373689	#FallIntoMyBacklist pick 2
1365931075	“My words are unerring tools of destruction, and I’ve come unequipped with the ability to disarm them.” I've never reviewed any of these books, but I'm going to attempt today. Here goes nothing. This is not a recommendation. Go ahead, read it if you want to read it. This series is definitely not for everyone, so I won't hold it against you if you ended up despising it. I have read these books multiple times already and will continue in the future. Since this is a character driven book I'll go over each character a little to give you some idea. =D The pretty one. "Richard Gansey III had forgotten how many times he had been told he was destined for greatness." ^^ This is the first line of The Raven King (4th book). I read it at the BnN and I had a melt down right there and then. Don't ask.Okay, lets talk about Gansey, shall we? He sounds pretty cliche if you haven't read the book. He is extremely rich, well spoken, popular, good looking, everyone wants a piece of him. I might not have liked him at the beginning, were it not for that strange prologue. That prologue really pulled me in, and got me hooked. I honestly don't know how to explain Gansey. I have so much respect for this kid. He is kind of arrogant by nature but he tries to fight it. He is so cool he doesn't really fit in anywhere. He always has to be very careful about what he says around anyone. That is the most amusing and refreshing thing i have read in a long time. How he fits in the group? Gansey is the Glue that keeps all the boys together. They aren't friends with each other, they are all friends with him. Without him they'll probably rip each other into pieces, you'll find out soon why. He is obsessed with finding a dead welsh king. He's made it the mission of his life. There are predictions, this is the year he is going to die. Coca Cola T-shirt. Onto my second favorite raven boy, Adam Parrish. First of all, i love his name for some reason. My cousin had a baby boy last year, i insisted on naming him Adam. Now i have a nephew named Adam!! Adam is the only Aglionby student who doesn't come from a filthy rich family. In fact, he isn't rich at all, he lives in a trailer park with his parents. His father is an abusive alcoholic. Robert Parrish (his father) beats him and expects him to sport the family financially. I just wanted to protect him so bad. I feel this intense connection with Adam because he is the most relatable of all boys. While they all have their problems, Adam's are more real. I even cried for him. He works his ass off to pay for this insanely expansive school himself. He is determined to make something out of his life. Love for this puppy... i can't even. You wanna know what a character development looks like? You just keep an eye on Parrish throughout the series. I'm not even going to talk about his love interest. Let's just say it slapped me in the face. Made me the happiest person on this earth! AHHH!! The Psychic. Blue Sargent lives in a house full of physics, but she isn't one herself. Every woman in her family has the gift except Blue. She isn't completely useless, she is kind of like a battery: everyone's is much stronger when she is around. They are able to "see" more clearly. She gives them an energy boost, i guess. Every single psychic has predicted the same thing about Blue, she was destined to kill her true love with a kiss. I know how it all sounds, but trust me it's not cheesy at all when you actually read it. Let's do the math now. She is going to kill her true love + she met Gansey this year + Gansey is going to die this year... coincidence? I don't know. This was all very cute and fun, and i loved Blue in the first book. She was awesome! But i am not a fan of her in general. (view spoiler)[I hated that she went after Adam (Gansey's best friend) even though she knew about Gansey!!!! She ended up hurting Adam. (hide spoiler)] This is the last thing he needs in his shitty life. I was so over her boy drama. Couldn't care less about her "true love's kiss". Actually, she made me not like Gansey. It got to the point where i pretty much started skimming through her parts. I do not like her at all. (view spoiler)[ not to mention that Raven King ending was just disappointing (hide spoiler)] The Snake. Alright! Now my favorite raven boy! Gansey's devilishly handsome friend. The raven boy who was more raven than others. He even has a pet raven. “Ronan’s smile cut his face, but he looked kinder than Blue had ever seen him, like the raven in his hand was his heart, finally laid bare.” Alas! What can i tell you about Ronan Lynch? You have to experience it yourself. Whether you love him or absolutely hate the shit of him. The second book, The Dream Thieves, is his book. Everything that makes me love him is a HUGE spoiler. I'm still going to give this a try: At first, he feels like your standard rich spoiled Aglionby kid. But the thing is, he is not nice like Gansey. He isn't soft like Adam. He is just a sad broken soul, but he makes it impossible to make you feel bad for him. Ronan is kind of scary actually. Did i mention he swears a lot, and gets into fights? Let's just say, Ronan Lynch lived with every sort of secret. WOW, i did a pretty shitty job with him. Oh well. The troublemaker. Kavinsky is not actually in the first book. But since he is one of my favorite characters, i want to talk about him a little. I consider him a raven boy since he too attends Aglinoby. Joseph Kavinsky is what would have become of Ronan, had Gansey abandoned him. I personally love Kavinsky but he is obviously not right in the head. He is a psychopath. He is obsessed with Ronan (not that i blame him). I shipped them like crazy!!! Man, he is hilarious. I find it weird that more people don't like him. Sure, he is crazy but he is so well written. I love him!! His interactions with Gansey and Ronan were just the best. I died laughing. Two thumbs up for my boy, K! The smudgy one. Noah, Noah, Noah. Noah doesn't do much. He just tags along. Most of the time people don't even notice him. You can lose him in the background. I can't talk about him much. All i can say is he is precious!! Can we talk about his ending? It pissed me off!! What was that? If anyone has any idea, please let me know. I am still very confused.That's all for now. I'll probably re-edit this in a few hours. But that's it for now. =D["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2112222579	„You’re looking for a god. Didn’t you suspect that there was also a devil?“ Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️All her life Blue was told that she would kill her true love. So she kept away from boys, especially the Raven boys in Henrietta. But then one day she sees a ghost in form of a young boy and his name is Gansey. Soon she meets Gansey and his friends - Ronan, Noah and Adam. They’re on the search for a king, buried long ago. Blue realizes that maybe she was supposed to meet Gansey and his friends. And maybe she was supposed to have this adventure with them. I absolutely loved this whole book. Of course it’s a book that you either love or hate, but I think I definitely loved it. Sometimes it was confusing, but it felt kind of magical. Like a mystery and fairy tale put into reality. It’s full of murder, magic, fights and tension. It was so addictive! ♥️Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️A genius with raw emotions underneath a perfect presidential face. A boy who lost his father and replaced it with apathy and anger and something more. A boy with insecurities who tries to stay true to himself and a boy as cold as Death who feels alive because of his friends. Every character is so perfectly written in a imperfect way that it’s hard not to love them (or at least like them).They’re all really different and still feel like the perfect collective. They’re like people you know and want to meet so badly. People you would gladly have an adventure with. My favorite character was Gansey. I loved him so much ♥️He covered himself in a mask of perfection, but really he was such an sensitive, big hearted guy, who has his own flaws, who is incredibly smart and who loves his friends more than anything. Ugh, find me a guy like that. World ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Sometimes you feel trapped in your own reality so much that you hope that there is some magic somewhere. And then people live and people die, miracles happen, psychics say something that will come true and you’ll see that even in this dark cold world we have a little bit of magic. Maybe you ask yourself - why only four stars for the world building? Because that is the first book and we’re still really confused about anything and there are so many mysteries and secrets and things we don’t understand. Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️First of all the friendship between the boys is so strong and amazing. There was this awesome bond of loyalty I adored. They were a team and even if someone made something pretty stupid, they still held to each other. Absolutely adorable. ♥️Also I loved that even though Blue had a rather hard start with the boys they still welcomed her with open arms. And soon she was a member of the group like the others ♥️Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I loved Maggie Stiefvaters writing. It was so beautiful and sometimes felt like poetry.There were times when it was funny and other times it was so sad/ exciting/ heartbreaking/ shocking/ overwhelming/Absolutely perfect 👏🏻
1874636498	(Original review below; re-read RTC!) 4 StarsOverview: “She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own.” I FINALLY READ IT, OKAY. I’m pretty sure this was recommended to me no less than 2,347 times, and it’s been all over my Goodreads and Tumblr feeds for what feels like forever. So I’m a little late to the party, but SO glad I started this series Pros: Most of my thoughts about this can be summed up by the Adam Parrish wiki:Adam Parrish is a cinnamon roll who needs to be protected. His struggle with needing something of his own instead of relying on Gansey was as well-written as it was painful. He was such a dynamic character, who was allowed his flaws while still being so thoughtful and caring. He just felt real.I JUST LOVED HIM A LOT. OKAY.But moving on...this book is marketed horribly as a paranormal romance with Blue’s soulmate-kissing-dilemma the primary focus. And it’s just… not? It felt more like an atmospheric, character-driven story more than anything else. The soulmate-kissing-dilemma was there, but this was not a romance.Adam (<3), Ronan, and Gansey were all very strong, complex characters. Their motivations are clearly illustrated without being trite and I just loved all their interactions. I understand the hype now, I really do.Though Blue seems to struggle with being ‘sensible’ in a very eccentric family, this didn’t come off as cliché. She instead seemed a strong, smart and fun character, who's maybe a little more curious than she ought to be. For a book called the ‘The Raven Boys’ I wasn’t expecting there to be such a plethora of eccentric, strong women. I loved the family dynamic in Blue’s household, and it was pretty hilarious at times.This plot is so creative. I struggled with understanding bits and pieces, and I’m not sure the whole ley-line thing is my favorite, but it was certainly different. There also are several brilliant twists on popular clichés (Like Blue and Gansey not falling at each-others feet). Cons I understand Noah’s role in this, but he paled in comparison to the other characters? Like I just don’t really understand who he is supposed to be or what he wants. He seemed more like a plot device than an actual character.I’m still super hella confused by this plot at the end, and I think it might be somewhat related to some pacing issues. The first half of this is suppppppppeeeeeeeeeeerrrrrrrrrrrrrrr slow. In a way, it works, because it creates a wonderful atmosphere and fully establishes the characters, but when compared to how the climax is literally just a ton of stuff going down in the last ten pages… it felt a bit much. In Conclusion I'm confused by some of the plot, but I already love all these characters.
1664052164	I finally read it. What took me so long??? Loved it so much.
369206776	Beautifully written, the characters are wonderful!I just wish it didn't take me so long to read it.
2291032522	Oh my days!!!!💃💃💃💃💃. My first book by Maggie!!! And i get the hype surrounding this book nw....i totally get it. Storyline....unlike any i have read, didnt seem cliche at all, characters so eccentric and soo cool. For once rich kids that are not busy sleeping around and throwing parties...breath of fresh air. Gansey my new book bf😍😍😍😍😍. The only thing missing????? My beautiful ships.....i need them to survive but that didnt take away frm the awesomeness of this book. Starting the next one right this minute!!!! My ships better be there!!!!
5696134404	|| 2.0 stars ||Why on earth did no one tell me this was the most boring book in existence?? I feel lied to by all the hype.This book is about a group of little rich boys who go to a posh boarding school, but who are somehow all completely obsessed with finding a Welsh king who died ages ago. This search pretty much takes over their entire lives, and nothing is more important to them than finding this dude because of…. reasons???Literally what in the hell is that plot?? It is so ridiculous. And it was so boring.Oh, and I almost forgot, but there is also an insane plot about a girl who is predestined to kill her true love if she were to kiss him, but instead of that leading to her staying away from the guy (like any reasonable person would do) she goes out of her way to get to know him. Because… reasons??? Sure. Ok.There is also an unnecessary love triangle brewing, because of course there is.The friendship between “The Raven Boys” was sooo weird as well. Gansey was like… their leader?? And the other boys jumped around him, lapping at his feet; sort of like dogs trying to get the attention of their master. It was so odd.The writing style was also excruciating. The pacing was the slowest thing imaginable, and it dragged so much. It was also strangely confusing?? I felt like I was reading about nothing while simultaneously being bombarded with information… Does that make sense? I don’t know, but that’s what it felt like.In all fairness though, I do have to say that this book got better near the end. The first half was literally just the worst because NOTHING HAPPENED, but I honestly believe the book didn’t really begin until it was about halfway in. So, honestly, once the book really got started it was… okay. Not good! But just okay-ish…
1543078009	Video Review: Coming soon, will update when that's live.Ok. So maybe you can relate to this or not, but you know when you raged the night before and then you woke up the next morning and you have this stream of consciousness that goes a little like this:1. Where am I?2. I'm in my bed, good.3. Wait, how did I get here?4. What's going on?Well, that's how I felt the majority of this book. I would be in the middle of the paragraph and think, "how did I get here?" Honestly, the writing and the pacing is why I knocked off 2 stars to this review.But first, let me talk about all the great things I loved about this book before I get into it. First off, the characters. These characters were so so so well-rounded and three dimensional, I never once felt like they were lacking in anything. More so, I just want to stand up and clap for how well developed the ADULTS were in this book. ADULTS IN A YA HAVE A PROMINENT ROLE?! What? No way. Yes way, and I loved how Blue's mother and her friends were so visual and so natural and whoa, took an actual active role in Blue's life. Aside from the adults, I loved the raven boys. Gansey, Ronan, Adam, and Noah were all so different and so distinctive. Sure, in the very very beginning I was a little confused at differentiating them, but once it was clear who who was, it was fine. Blue was also a great character. She wasn't outstanding by any means, but I am excited for her character development in the future books since her role in the supernatural was sort of just an introduction - I'm sure it will expand. Next, I enjoyed the multiple perspectives. I don't think I would have enjoyed this half as much as I did if we were just limited to Blue's perspective (considering she was just an ok character for me) but I loved how distinct Adam and Gansey's voices were. Again the perspective/voice thing plays into how much I enjoyed the characters and their developments. I'm guessing we will get Ronan's perspective next book based on a lot of things (which I'm stoked for because he was my favorite character) so I look forward to the exploration of other characters in the next book.Last thing I want to mention before I get into things I didn't enjoy was that I truly believe this is a superior book in the paranormal/supernatural YA genre. The lore behind the ley lines and what these kids are hunting is very very well thought out, researched, and developed (to an extent.) I've read so many YA paranormal books and while I still rated TRB a 3, I can recognize that it is better than most and appeals to a wide audience. Ok. So it's only appropriate to start with the beginning where I first experienced my "drunk hangover" with this book. I tried reading this book over the summer and didn't get past 20 pages before I put it down and forgot about it. I remembered being slightly confused but thought "Hey, maybe I was just distracted when I first read it." No.I wasn't. Picking this book back up again, I stopped on page 7 and texted my friends who had read this book and was like "So I'm on page 7 and I couldn't tell you anything of what I just read." It took me half of the book to really get used to the writing style. I'm not saying the writing was bad, because it wasn't. I'm just saying it was very oddly paced and constructed. There were times when I would be in the paragraph and I'd be like "please please, don't make me be confused going to the next paragraph." Because goddamn, there were times going from paragraph to paragraph I would get confused and have to pause and: 1. Where am I? 2. I'm in my bed, good. 3. Wait, how did I get here? 4. What's going on?Eventually, the writing style "clicked" but holy moly, it took near forever. Not to mention the climax scene I often asked myself: 1. Where am I? 2. I'm in my bed, good. 3. Wait, how did I get here? 4. What's going on? I had to go to the Recaptian site after I finished to make sure I interpreted the ending like I thought I did. Geez, what work. And could I have gone back and re-read a few things? yeah, sure. But listen: I didn't want to.I also strongly felt like the first 150 pages were all set up and no plot. Sure, we knew Gansey's obsession with the ley lines, but really? That was it. I saw the first 150 pages as more of a "day in the life" of these characters versus an actual story line. It wasn't until Blue hooked up with the raven boys did the plot start showing and the story took off. But, personally, that was too long for me. There is a good chance that if I wasn't reading this for a readathon I wouldn't have finished this at all because it took SO long to get into the meat of the story.One thing I do want to be very specific about and this isn't a spoiler, but Adam shows interest romantically in Blue. While there is little to no actual romance in this book (which I know will change) I really couldn't see why Adam liked Blue. You know why I thought this? He literally says NOTHING of why he likes her in his perspective. Find me the receipts where he says why he likes/or is attracted to her that doesn't have to do with her physical looks and maybe then I will recant this, but I was so confused on why he likes her because he gives us absolutely no reasons. I didn't particularly like the setting either. There was just some spark of the essence of the south missing. I never felt like I was standing in Henrietta and with the story line tied so closely to landmarks, I expected a little bit more. Lastly, the ending was very abrupt, though I can't say I'm surprised because the whole book was abrupt. I know it was a cliffhanger. But it literally felt like I was walking and a brick wall came flying up in front of me and boom, stopped. That's how the book ended, which wasn't really for me. But hey, I am continuing with the series. Hopes for the next book: 1. I don't constantly feel like I'm in the middle of the worst hangover of my life while reading.2. Ronan perspective3. It doesn't take me half the book to become invested.
1061392947	So atmospheric. Loved all of the characters.
2103369812	This was a slow read. It legit took me MONTHS to finish. Which is very rare. A book either usually takes me less than a week or it’s just not good enough to finish. But, as I’ve said before, I have a harder time DNFing physical books than ebooks, so I persevered. Still, I found it kind of boring. Thankfully, the ending picked up and I will continue with book two...cause I’m an idiot and bought the whole series without reading book one first.Damn you, pretty covers.
1905993482	I think I loved this one even more the second time around. I can't believe how much is blatantly laid out that I didn't catch the first time!
1695242051	Not sure exactly what I was expecting with the first book of this series, but whatever it was I think I got it. I was not blown away, per se. Also, I don't find myself fanboy-ing or anything. But, it was enjoyable. The hype train on it frequently plows through my Goodreads feed, so I had to give it a shot.A few bullet points on this book:- I liked it.- It was a bit hard to fully grasp what was happening.- I got used to the plot as it went along, but it was still pretty out there when I got to the end. - I expect that now that I am used to this world, the rest of the series will click easier. - I plan to read the whole series. - My final rating is 3.5 (Goodreads - gimmie that half star rating, please!)I can definitely see why this book is a hit. I really enjoyed the characters. Part of me thinks I was slow getting into it because it is urban fantasy, and that is my normal response to urban fantasy.
2163987712	Second read 2023 Just as wonderful the second time around. I did find some of the characters a bit frustrating as an adult. But still in love with the magic 💖First read 2017“There are only two reasons a non-seer would see a spirit on st marks eve, Blue. Either you’re his true love,” Neeve said, “or you killed him.”Everyone was right! This was fantastic! The hype is 100% correct!I managed to go into this pretty much blind, I read the synopsis but knew nothing else. This proved to be a wise decision, as had I known the themes involved - psychics, tarot cards and the like I might have skipped it. Blue lives in a house of psychics, but possesses no psychic ability herself. On St Marks Eve she goes to a church graveyard with one of her Aunts, so they can log the names of the spirits they see, as these are the names of the people who will die in the next 12 months. However, while there Blue sees a spirit for the first time - and it means one of two things!Gansey, Ronan, Adam and Noah were an amazing set of characters. Well fleshed out, with real flaws and issues - I loved them all!Through reasons of his own, Gansey is on a hunt for an old Welsh King called Glendower. Buried apparently on a ley line - a magical energy line, where he can be reawakened and the awakener will be offered one favour. I don’t want to give anything away as it’s best to be surprised as you go along, but I loved it! Though there were a few gaps where I felt the fantasy side didn’t quite add up, I thought the characters were incredible - my favourite being Adam Parrish. I am definitely ordering the Dream Thieves! “I’m just warning you...watch for the devil. When there’s a god, there’s always a legion of devils.”
1697128450	The trees speak LatinReread #4 6/1/2021: Re-reading the series again because Mister Impossible came out & can’t wait to submerge myself completely in Stiefvater yet again Reread #3 12/2019: Still in love2017This was beautiful. This was perfection. This was everything to me. I wanted to devour it. But I made myself savor it. I read it slow. I read it twice in a row. I didn't want it to end. So I read it. And I read it again. I was pulled in immediately. Upon the first page. Stiefvater's writing spoke directly to my soul. Cradled me in poetic arms. Swept me away from the hurts of reality. Healed me. Inspired me. The characters. Oh how I fell in love with all the characters. Those boys. Those Raven Boys. Every character was layered and complicated and just as messed up as the rest of us. Depth, depth, depth. Stiefvater can deliver a beautiful and unique plot. Full of depth. Suspense. Intrigue. Surprise. This is not your average, dull, slapped-together, cheesy, predictable YA here. Oh no, no, no. No insta-love, boy swooning, triangles, 2d-movie-star-smile unrealistic characters and obnoxiously immature main protagonists here at all. This is real writing. This is perfection. This is the definition of a 5 star rating. Maggie, I am in love with you. And also, I am jealous of you. And also you are my hero. Because I want to write a book one day. And I only hope I can one day be like you.
1683209515	“Keep being brave.” Unique, eerie, compelling and magical. These are the attributes that perfectly describe The Raven Boys. But perhaps I am redundant in my words due to the fact I am a few years late to the hype and all I could say has been already said. Rest assured though, I'll keep my fangirling to a minimum. I do have a series to finish. The story in this book is the epitome of weeeeird. Strange and otherworldly. Original and enthralling nonetheless. I mean -- ley lines and Welsh hidden kings? Um, wut? First of all, what the hell are ley lines (I needed Google to educate me on that) and second of all, how is any of this interesting?Initially, it was not. I couldn't care less about the plot because yeah, uneducated new age freshman right here. I was all about the characters because I suddenly couldn't stop reading about Blue and her overall awesomeness (more on that in a minute) and these 4 peculiar yet alluring raven boys. But then the plot somewhat became the characters themselves. I know, I know, I don't make sense but, personally, I felt this whimsical quest for Glendower become an integral part of each of them: Blue's subtle desire to be special, Gansey's blunt obsession, Adam's hope for a better future, Ronan's deepest secrets and Noah's tragic existence. It all made for an intricate spider web of characterization that in the end rendered this book as both character and plot driven. Ah, and speaking of that, these characters are GORGEOUS. I kid you not. I was feeling like I was in the presence of long-lost friends, effortlessly immersing myself into their world and dramas. Blue is undoubtedly amazing. I never felt this uniqueness about a female character ever since I acquainted with Karou and Zuzana from Daughter of Smoke and Bone. She's like a fairy, a pixie, but one with a strong and honorable personality. She's weird alright, but in an endearing way and I'm glad to see she brought a speck of color into the boys' lives. “She wasn’t interested in telling other people’s futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own.” Adam Parrish is such a lovable character. You cannot but love him instantly, including his hard-work, grueling efforts, endurance, burdens, intelligence and overall sweetness. His integrity brought tears to my eyes and his selflessness was just another testament to show what a great guy he is. Plus his subtle romance with Blue is lovely. Gosh, everything about him is lovely. He's like a flower. Or a puppy. As I said, lovable to the nth degree. “Don’t throw compliments away, so long as they’re free.’” His face was very earnest. “That one wasn’t meant to cost you anything, Blue.” The one who stole my heart though was Gansey. Richard 'Dick' Campbell Gansey III. This boy-king awed me with his drive and spark of brilliance, with his inquisitive mind and commanding leadership. He also made me love him because of his unknown naïveté and innocence that was at odds with his old-money upbringing. He is still a boy, trapped in dreams of other realms, but his ambition alone might make those dreams a reality. And his friendships with the boys were incredible; he is the axis of the group, the alpha, but followed through love, respect and borderline adoration. It's mutual, however, and the fact that he struggles to keep them all together is nothing short of awesomeness. “My words are unerring tools of destruction, and I’ve come unequipped with the ability to disarm them.” Noah Czerny, you poor little creature. Even though he is always a bit in the background, I couldn't help than want to barge in Henrietta and give him a fierce hug. I hope to learn more about him, especially after all the twists and turns regarding his persona. Regardless, I already assigned him cinnamon roll status. However, without a doubt, the most peculiar of the boys is Ronan. He is also the most mysterious and he remains so throughout the novel. I loved his pissy and mercurial personality, which goes to show how messed up and broken he really is. Regardless, besides Gansey and Blue's family, he cracked me up as well. I'm hoping he'll get more page time and he'll become central once more, because I am dying to know about his father, his family, his dynamic with the boys and that hell of a jaw-dropping revelation at the end of the book. Considering the title and the cover of the 2nd book, it appears I'll get my wish. “Gansey had once told Adam that he was afraid most people didn’t know how to handle Ronan. What he meant by this was that he was worried that one day someone would fall on Ronan and cut themselves.” The innumerable women (okay okay, three) in Blue's life deserve a shoutout: Maura, Persephone and Calla. This trio right here made the book better, even if they're not in the light 24/7. As secondary characters, they were incredibly well developed, with distinct personalities and I loved each and every one of them, not to mention their lovely relationships with Blue. In a way, I felt that even though Blue is fatherless, she has 3 mothers. 3 really cool mothers. The boys as a group were a wonder, but throwing Blue into the mix achieved the ultimate perfection. She fit in naturally, not to mention her bizarre yet great family. I cannot wait to see them develop this little group of theirs. “They were always walking away from him. But he never seemed able to walk away from them.” And ohmygod I just want to know how the story will pan out because that was such a tease to continuously plague us with bits from the future! The Gansey prophecy better not be happening. But what about Blue's faith to kill her true love with a kiss? The Gansey and Blue vision is so gut-wrenching I just can't even. And how will that come to fruition since we're only getting Adam and Blue vibes for now? A love triangle? Deaths (please not)?? I am equally scared and exhilarated to find out more. The prose is beautiful, but I didn't expect anything less from Maggie Stiefvater. I regret having forgotten the rest of the Mercy Falls series into an endless pile of TBR (note to self: bump them up). The third narrative was lovely manipulated to build up tension and shiver-inducing sequences, whereas the atmosphere was worthy of an Edgar Allen Poe inspiration: often bleak, cold, but enchanting. I read the book during nightly hours just to get the full experience and I gotta say it is the wowza kind. Also, do I hear ravens in the background? Oh, and thank you to the wonderful TRC fandom on Tumblr: your fan arts and edits made me cave in and read this book and I am not one bit regretting this decision. I can finally understand some references and not scroll past spoilery images yay! Now I'm off to read the sequel. Thank God I'm late to the party and do not have to experience the excruciating pain of waiting a year in between installments. I'LL DEVOUR THEM ALL. I can definitely say that The Raven Cycle series has the potential of becoming a new favorite of mine just by having read this first installment. It irreversibly won me over with its gothic nuances and just plain fun and sweet contemporary. If I have wrongly deemed myself the last person in the bookish community to not have read it and you're the rightful beholder of that title, than please go ahead and pick this up. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. “If you had a special knack for finding things, it meant you owed the world to look.” ENJOY! <3
2707051917	The Raven Cycle is the only series I’ve read that can convince me of magic. Maggie Stiefvater has an uncanny talent for bringing the inanimate to life and making the ordinary feel faintly ethereal. Her character dynamics are phenomenal; the complex and unique personas filling these pages have for years made up my favourite fictional friend group. “Fate," Blue replied, "is a very weighty word to throw around before breakfast.” The ever-impending struggle of my life occurs every time someone asks me what’s your favourite series about?” because for the love of god I have never read a synopsis that properly encapsulates these books. The best explanation I could give you is this vaguely specific ramble: The Raven Cycle follows a group of varyingly troubled yet inseparable friends who are searching for a dead Welsh king for some reason or another and instead find a mysterious magical forest where the trees speak latin causing further dilemma and there’s murderers and a house of psychics and some ghosts and so much amazing. Stiefvater’s characters are easily the most outstanding aspect of this series; my love for each of them is boundless. Five teenagers polarizing in their differences that manage to be completely inseparable when together. The Raven Cycle takes found family to a whole new level; these characters form the most beautiful friendship I’ve ever read. ~★~ Characters ~★~ Ronan Lynch “Gansey had once told Adam that he was afraid most people didn't know how to handle Ronan. What he meant by this was that he was worried that one day someone would fall on Ronan and cut themselves.”Ronan Lynch, my favourite fictional character of all time. He’s a brilliant character experiencing complicated emotions I couldn’t dream of writing as well as Stiefvater has. In The Raven Boys we are introduced to a boy that is the definition of “money doesn't ensure happiness”. Family and friends are the source of that feeling, and Ronan’s family life isn't the best. After the death of his beloved father, he and his older brother have a fragmented and hostile relationship. Losing his father (his idol, really) means Ronan is often agitated, and has trouble expressing himself without coming off as angry or upset. His friends have come to understand this, and do everything they can to help him through his seemingly endless pool of grief. Because of his typically harsh demeanor, every moment where Ronan lets the goodness in him shine through is something beautiful. The rest of The Raven Cycle begins to chip away at his mask of cruelty, eventually revealing the gorgeous person underneath. “You look like a super villain with your familiar,’” Adam said. Ronan’s smile cut his face, but he looked kinder than Blue had ever seen him, like the raven in his hand was his heart, finally laid bare.” Blue Sargent “She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own.”Blue Sargent, how I love you. My independent and fierce girl, unbothered by half the world. It’s so intriguing to see Blue navigate her prophecy (if she kisses her true love he will die), accepting that she can avoid love but not prevent it. Her unlikely friendship with Gansey and the raven boys is incredibly heartwarming to experience as it unravels. I’m (also) really fond of the comical dynamics between Blue and the other psychics living with her in 300 Fox Way. “Today, Blue thought, is the day I stop listening to the future and start living it instead." Richard Gansey “Is this thing safe?""Safe as life," Gansey replied.”Gansey is like the glue that holds the raven boys together, he'd go to the ends of the earth to ensure his friends’ sustained happiness. His wealth causes disputes between him and his less fortunate companion, Adam Parrish (as any offer of help is seen as “charity”), which breaks my heart every time; their arguments only solidify how strong their bond is. Gansey’s narrative perspective really reinforces the love that he has for each of the raven boys, as well as their new friend Blue Sargent. I love his passion for unearthing the Welsh king Glendower, and live for the journey it takes him and his friends on.“Adam was struck, as he occasionally was, by Gansey’s agelessness: an old man in a young body, or a young man in an old man’s life.” Adam Parrish “He was full of so many wants, too many to prioritize, and so they all felt desperate.”My love for Adam Parrish is a goddamn tangible thing; he was definitely the character that caused me the most heartache throughout The Raven Cycle. Coming from a poor and abusive household, Adam hates to consider himself helpless. Instead, he’s determined to carve himself a future outside of the trailer park he resides in. Working several part time jobs to afford private school, he discovers Gansey and Ronan, the boys that will become his lifelong friends. A little bit of surety and a lot of love is all that Adam needs, and its so wonderful to see him begin to accept these things as the series progresses. “Adam had once told Gansey, Rags to riches isn’t a story anyone wants to hear until after it’s done.” Noah "Tell her I’m sorry I drank her birthday schnapps.”I have no other words for Noah but sweet. He demonstrates that sometimes you don't need many words to show someone how much you care about them. Noah's quiet; his best friends are rarely able to get a couple of sentences out of him. Even knowing that, the raven boys don't need any words from Noah to recognize how much they all mean to him. He’s a giant teddy bear, that’s for sure.~★~I could talk anyone’s ear off about The Raven Cycle, however this review has gone on long enough to hopefully convey my love for these books. I won’t bother belabouring my points, but I’ll leave you with this. Writing that feels like magic itself, and characters you’ll almost surely come to love. There’s a reason I re-read this series every year during the holiday season. This series feels like home to me.
1567031245	First Read: January 2018, Rating: 5/5 starsSecond Read: February 2020, Rating: 5/5 starsThird Read: April 2022, Rating: 5/5 starsThe Raven Boys series seems it was created with the sole purpose of revealing me as a hypocrite. Fantasy that has its roots in reality isn’t my favourite. Fantasy that features a prominent romance isn’t my favourite. Fantasy that doesn’t feature complex magic systems and dark magicians in abundance isn’t my favourite. Yet this series, despite it all, most definitely IS a favourite.My third reading of this series has occurred four years after my initial one and I am still just as enamoured with all of these characters as I was then. This series feels like home, like comfort, and returning to it like an exhale, a release. I can't imagine ever aging or my tastes altering to a point where I don't class this amongst my favourites.
1254986823	I can't begin to tell you how much I loved this book. THE HYPE WAS REAL AND IT LIVED UP TO IT. The characters, plot, and writing were all phenomenal, and I'm so excited to read the rest of the series!Reread March 24-April 12th in preparation for THE RAVEN KING!This book is so wonderful on so many levels. I really loved listening to the audiobook this time around. I JUST LOVE BLUE AND THE BOYS AND THE PLOT AND THE WRITING AND EVERYTHING IS THE BEST.
1122936946	I'm sorry, Raven Boys. Truly, I am. This is obviously a case of "it's not you, it's me".You had so much going for you. Glowing recommendations from trusted reviewers, a unique plot with minimum focus on if-I-kiss-my-true-love-he'll-kick-it angst, zero slut-shaming or other problematic issues common in YA.But you were in the wrong hands.Julie Kagawa would've made me commit to a Raven Boy (Gansey, Adam, Ronan, and Noah) instead of merely feeling lackluster interest. Wisecracks would've been flying out of the Thunderdome.Marie Lu would've solved the pacing issue lickity-split and have me reading well into night, heart pounding in anticipation. What's going to happen next? Will Gansey find the ley line (an invisible path of energy) and the Welsh version of sleeping King Arthur? Will they kiss?Leah Raeder would've pricked her finger and bled rainbow over your pages, turning your dull, wishy-washy prose into gold. Lyrical without the purple.Alas, you were ruined by dreamy Laini Taylor prose. Its timeless quality makes you feel like you've been reading it forever. And ever. And ever. The big plot twist felt about as climatic as opening a can of tuna. There's no sense of urgency, no reason to keep me turning pages. (view spoiler)[Even the police investigation into Ronan's death feels like an afterthought. (hide spoiler)] I was more than halfway through before finally finding out why Gansey's looking for an ancient Welsh king.As for the kiss-and-die plot point, perhaps I'm getting old, but I can think of loads of other things to do other than kiss. Kiss through a mask! Make like Eskimos and rub noses! There are so many loopholes to this rule, it seems pointless.Consider this our official break-up. I suffered through Lament: The Faerie Queen's Deception, I earned a permanent hand-shaped mark on my forehead through Shiver, I lowered my barriers for Raven Boys and got literary insomnia pills in return. Goodbye forever. I wish you all the best. ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2375740637	I’m going to assume the problem is me here, for basically everyone else in the world loves this book. Maybe I’m illiterate.
1822328079	She wasn't interested in telling other people's futures. She was interested in going out and finding her own. The thing is, this is a very good book. I just don't love it the way I love the rest of the series. The character development here hasn't taken place, the relationships aren't quite there yet. That kind of thing. But please believe me when I say you need to continue. I've linked some of my series reviews below. // THE BEST THINGS ABOUT THIS SERIES♔ So, it's not a romance. It's Very Not A Romance. Honestly, a lot of the focus ends up being on friendship. And all the friendships are so good?? Even the main couples of the series are friends first before being in love which obviously I am A Slut for. ♚ The character work. Okay, granted, this is more a factor of books two and three - my FAVES - but it's uncontroversial that Stiefvater lays the groundwork here for some truly amazing character arcs. Every character here whirs with potential. Adam, Gansey, and Blue all come off as complex and developed, each with their own hopes, dreams, and fears. “I guess I make things that need energy stronger. I'm like a walking battery.""You're the table everyone wants at Starbucks," Gansey mused as he began to walk again.Blue blinked. "What?"Over his shoulder, Gansey said, "Next to the wall plug.” ♔ The banter. This falls into the category of friendship for sure, but I'm going to be honest, it's one of my favorite parts of this series. ♚ Maggie Stiefvater's glorious writing style. I really, really like her writing style. She has an interesting narrational style that somehow never seems pretentious. I'm sure some are going to despise it, but I think it'll be a slim minority; her words might take me a long time to read, but it is absolutely worth it. ♔ It just straight up gets a whole lot better?? I mean, any of you who know me know that book two is one of my top three favorite books of all time. As an individual book, I think it's as pitch-perfect as you can get. Even if you're not a fan of book one, give book two a chance. It's more adventurous, with even more character work and even less romance. Here are my reviews for the The Dream Thieves, Blue Lily Lily Blue, and The Raven King.// THE BAD ABOUT THIS BOOK, OR WHY YOU SHOULD KEEP READING EVEN IF YOU DON'T LOVE THIS♔ The Raven Boys is really slow, especially in comparison to the other ones. The plot here is downright boring at times, and the villain is laughable. Not in a "ha, ha" way, he's just not a scary villain. ♚ The characters aren't quite developed enough yet. They're already good characters, but the character work here is not nearly as unforgettable as in books two through four. This book really focuses on exposition on who the characters are now. Ronan doesn't have a defined character yet (which is definitely not a complaint I have about book two.) And Adam is a bit of an asshole in this book. Given what's going on his life, I actually totally understood his behavior. Unfortunately, he's also not nearly as dynamic and developed here. Also, Gansey is the literal embodiment of #richpeopleproblems. He's complex and I wanted to like him for that reason, but he ended up getting on my nerves, especially in his interactions with Adam. ♔ Love triangles stopped being interesting at least five years ago. Adam and Blue just... don't have much going on?? Okay, maybe I only felt that way because I know who the series' endgame couples are. Sue me. It was still a little painful reading a not-that-special romance when I knew they were going to break up. GENERAL PROBLEMS WITH THE SERIES AS A WHOLE♔ #Richpeopleproblems. Okay, genuinely, Adam is probably my favorite character just because he's such a voice of reason. There's some part in this book where Gansey buys, like, a pool table? And it's ridiculous, and the narrative knows it's ridiculous, yet also somewhat romanticizes it. Bad concept. Blocked. ♚ Blue and Gansey don't have full character arcs, and I get that it's kind of the point, but I still hate it. Blue is supposed to be the protagonist, yet she doesn't grow and change much besides falling in love. Gansey is supposed to be the protagonist, yet he basically doesn't change at all even though he has so much potential. oh my god. I mean, Stiefvater writes two AMAZING character arcs, so I can't really complain. Look, Maggie, I don't lie awake at night crying about Blue Sargent's character arc. I know you can make me lie awake at night crying about character arcs. Just try it more on your actual protagonists next time. ♔ Here's a section I'm going to call Blue Sargent and Internalized Misogyny. See, the thing is, Blue's misgyny seems like it's purposeful. I think Stiefvater makes it pretty clear that she doesn't necessarily agree - there's even a post on her blog about Blue's misogyny. But it's... never actually subverted, and oh boy, the not-like-other-girls here is strong. There's even one moment where some borderline slut-shaming happens. Emma talked about this more in maybe the most popular three star review ever. (ALSO HERE'S HER REVIEW FOR THIS BOOK YALL.) Point is, the not like other girls trope can die the death it deserves, thanks. also this entire series deserves a remake except every main character is a girl thanks for coming to my ted talk♚ Also! The lack of diversity is a thing. I'm sorry, Blue literally does not know a single girl her age and that's ridiculous and dumb as shit. And everyone's white or racially ambiguous. I think I also said at some point that this first book was obnoxiously heterosexual and full of random subtext with no payoff, but I'm taking that comment back. I'm taking it all back. I apologize. can I please point you all to that absurd tvtropes page where someone clearly thought they were being queerbaited the whole time it's the funniest thing I've read in my lifeVERDICT: On the whole, The Raven Boys is a good book, but it's not that special - it's the rest of the series that really stands out in comparison and solidified my love for this.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter (complete w related handle) | Youtube
1314549572	I loved this! It was such a fun story and I adored the characters. I can already tell that this series is going to be a favorite!
698901587	Slow burning. Mystical. Promising...ish.This has gotta be the first book I've ever read that transitioned from a 1 to 5 stars.Final rating: 3.5________________________________Book song: Matthew Parker - Bigger Picture (Just A Gent Remix)________________________________
5153435841	5 STARS AGAIN FOR MY TRC NOSTAGLIC HEART! I always miss them 🥺😭💗 RTC!(It is always difficult to review a reread when you know everything that happens in the series and cannot find the words to make up how much they mean to you!)✨🌲🔮🌳✨🌲🔮🌳✨🌲🔮🌳✨🌲🔮🌳✨🌲🔮🌳✨🌲🔮🌳✨____________Did I read this January? yes, but leave me alone. Buddy read with my bb maya!again: This is a raven cycle world, and we are all just living in it.____________5 Stars for my nostalgic heart2023 (Reread) - My soul needed to find a way back to this series in preparation to read the Dreamer Trilogy, which I have foolishly put off. This was my favorite series in high school, and I think about it often. This is a raven cycle world, and we are all just living in it.Full series review to come when I have finished! 📚✨😊
1811556470	4 stars!!! “Ronan said, "I'm always straight." Adam replied "Oh, man, that's the biggest lie you've ever told.” Ain't that the freaking truth...FULL REVIEWSo I've procrastinated reading this book for years because I was so intimidated by the hype this series gets. Then one day I decided to stop delaying the inevitable.I must say that this book is nothing like I've ever read before. It was unique and complicated yet very gripping and intriguing at the same time. The way Maggie wrote this book is complexly astounding. It demands your brain to be attentive and your heart to be cautious. The characters were my favorite part of this book. Every single one of them contains a certain quality that made me fall in love with them. All of them have their own issues that they were dealing with which made them really close to my heart. Let's start with Richard Campbell Gansey III , who's my favorite character in this entire series. I loved him because he was just so pure, compassionate, kind, brilliant, adorable, and just so sweet. I like his perseverance and positive attitude about things. I like him because of he is the father/mother figure of Ronan and Adam. He cares about them when no one else was caring. He's elegant way of speaking leads to other people thinking he's arrogant but he's nothing but a sweetheart. He's enthusiasm for looking for his king is just so inspiring. Blue Sargent is the only feminine part of the group. She's the mirror of their group. She's headstrong and tough. I wasn't a fan of her in this book. I just felt like she judged the others so easily here without giving much credit to them. Adam Parrish is the magician in their group. He's known as the coca-cola shirt dude. And my least favorite character in the entire series. I just don't like him at all in this book. He's the main reason why I gave this book a four star. I found him very annoying, proud, and kind of selfish. I'm not a fan of how he treated Gansey in this book. I was so mad at him for being mad at Gansey for trying to help. I get it that he has a very very shitty parents but I don't think that it was a valid reason to be terrible to his best friend. I just don't get him in this book. Ronan Lynch , the Greywaren and the snarkiest person in the group. He's the toughest motherfucker I've ever known. He's the one with the biggest issue in here. He got his demons, which results to him being closed-off and sarcastic, and just plain unapproachable. I think that the way he talks and acts is the main reason why everybody loves this guy. Ronan Lynch is Ronan Lynch, its either you love him or you hate him. In my case, I love him, second to Gansey of course...Last but not the least... Noah Czerny the smudgy one. This boy broke my heart to million pieces. He's the fragile and the most unfortunate one. I think he wasn't given enough scene in this book but nonetheless everybody loves him too. He's such a sweetheart to Blue, which once again breaks my heart. My other problem with this book besides Adam's annoying attitude was; it was really really slow. I think I only got excited with it in the last 150 pages? But I still liked it a lot. I liked the world-bulding of this book, it wasn't your typical story. It was very refreshing and intense. I also liked the mystery vibe of this book. You never know what will happen until you're finally reading the big explosive plot twist. Yeah, that did happen to me...
1375959255	Originally read in October 2015. Reread April 2016. Loved it even more the second time.This book was brilliant. Throughout reading it I couldn't help but wonder how someone had actually come up with this story. It was so unlike anything I had ever read before. So many beautiful details. Such an intricate plot. All of the characters were beautiful in different ways and I already hold them so dear to my heart. Immediately going to buy the entire rest of the series and pre-order The Raven King!
2169286493	4 Golden StarsIt was one of my most anticipated long-lasted books on my TBR list that I was so willing to read for 4 years! (as much I was afraid too)a Great Mysteriously intriguing novel with a beautiful Cover!thank you Maggie!I didn't know I needed this book.it was awesome!I loved it!(deserved the Hype)✦ the Concept/Plot; what I like at first sight, the reason I picked it up & decided to read itFantasy, SupernaturalThe Ghostie/Psychic/Magical side of Supernatural (cw series) can be found in this book. (Demon hunting and Angels part was in the Shadowhunters chronicles)Seriously though, it gave me TMI vibes (probably because of what I told in the previous line), but I'm telling you, the whole story, world building & the rules are totally different.With mysterious Plot which revealed its secrets piece by piece as the story went on.Though it was slow pace, but I enjoyed every bits of it.the ending was exciting.✦ the Characters; my "Anchor" to the story, the Reason that I continueThey were great, likable & relatable & realistic with the routine kinds of fun & jokes between friends, I could understand them & see why they acted like the way they did.meet The Raven Boys;Smart skillful Adam, with some issues, voice of reasonSweet serious-mild-sarcastic Gansey with that talk-first-think-after attitude. (& the use of difficult fancy luxury words!)Shy Noah (also cute)Loyal, Sarcastic Ronan (he's rude though. swears a lot.)& from the middle, I found Blue interesting too. I like her. (at first she was pretty harsh though, but she developed or revealed her good sides. she was realistic, she got angry but over rational reasons, she's funny & she's not rude.I loved them & I laughed with them. I was worried with them for them. This engagements are the factors that happen every time with a top favourite series.Even though sometimes in the teenage characters conversations, the language turned foul (I don’t like the swearing) but most of the scenes were actually funny so I could ignore that.In general, the writing style seemed a bit hard for me as a non-native English reader (especially at first) but then I got used to it. It was slow, but unique & fun.I wish there will be an adaptation of this series-Plot: ★★★(★)/5 (Pace: ★★★/5)Characters: ★★★★(★)/5World weaving: ★★★★/5Writing Style: ★★★(★)/5General idea: ★★★★/5
1625458310	Boy oh boy! Why didn't I read this sooner? The hype was real and I am here for it. This book...the world, characters, plot, writing was extraordinary. It was magical and wonderful and amazing. Yes, the beginning was slow but it picks up the pace and take you for a ride. I feel like this book is just building for the BIGGER plot in the upcoming books. The best part of the book is the characters. I love each and every one of the boys, Blue & her family. It is definitely a character driven book and I love it so so much. I love how every character interacts with each other. All I'm trying to say is I love these characters. Gansey is the center of friendship for the boys. He cares deeply for them all. His concern for the others touches my heart. Ronan is the cranky or mean one but despite that he is a softie. Adam is the sensible one. He wants to be independent and does not take anything for granted. His story really hurt me and he must be protected at all times. Noah is the quite and nice one. His story was the most shocking. I did not see it coming. And then there's Blue, the only girl. I really liked her character. She is not the annoying teenage girl. She is sensible, smart, and mature. I'm telling you, you will fall in love with every single one of these characters.Maggie Stiefvater really does know how to hook you in. I am craving more and more of this story and I cannot read it fast enough. The story and the writing is really addictive. I seriously don't know why I waited so long to read this book. Well better late than never. I am going to dive into the next book ASAP.
2910118700	So I read this book through the night to finish it and then when I finished it I just went and bought the rest of the series and I've spent the past few days just reading through the other three books in the series. Since I did that the plot kind of melts together in my head and I'm sorry if I confuse something from one of the other books as being something that happened in this one. Also spoilers probably so I guess really just avoid the reviews unless you don't care about me accidentally talking about something I shouldn't.I feel kind of old and boring now because when I started reading this and I saw that Gansey was who Blue was going to end up falling in love with I just kind of rolled my eyes. Honestly through out the whole first book I just could not grasp why we're all supposed to like Gansey. Blue, Adam, and Ronan are all infinitely more interesting characters. Like cool he comes from a rich family of GOP politicians and can stay composed I guess. Probably though he's just too wholesome a person for me really. He is pretty caring and considerate though I guess. Also does it not get on anyone else's nerves that he kept calling Blue, Jane. Like I guess it's supposed to be funny or endearing but really I'm just like Blue is such an easy name imagine being that annoying about an unusual name. Okay I think all I really wanted to do was complain about what a lackluster love interest Gansey was and how I just kept thinking about that through out the whole first book and wondering why inevitably she would lose interest in Adam. I do think the plot of this one was maybe stronger than the rest of the books in the series.The writing is okay, it's what I'd expect for any book written with a YA audience in mind and you know sometimes I don't want to force myself to parse out the meaning from Hegel-like prose. It took my a while to anticipate the Noah thing as well, which is good because I feel like a lot of times I end up anticipating these things happening and it really ruins the build up. This first book is probably the one I enjoyed the most from the series and the one I think is strongest.I've kind of written more than I realized so I'm just going to go start writing my review for the second book and complain more there.
419119027	I gave this book 5 stars because 6 wasn't an option. I'll compensate by giving "6 Reasons to Read The Raven Boys........Right Now".1. The Supernatural Element: I adore all things supernatural, and to have the opportunity to read about something I've never heard of, well that is the icing on the cake, and probably the top reason that I admire all of Ms. Stiefvater's works. No exception here. Ley lines, psychics, a potential witch.......oh, my! 2. The characters: so quirky and interesting, I couldn't help developing feelings for them. Some of them I admire, while others seem......sneaky, with hidden agendas. I got to "know" them, but it is very clear that there are plenty of secrets still lurking. Even the adorable characters have real-life flaws: some of which are charming, some....not so much. I say this as a good thing. I don't want to read about boring, perfect people. 3. The relationships among the teenagers: Ms. Stiefvater truly captures the essence of teen-age friendships in that: they don't always get along, they don't always make the best decisions, but best of all, they tend to be amazingly accepting of someone, despite knowing nothing 'about' him (last name, family, classes). Ms. Stiefvater goes on to encapsulate the bonds that form at this age: comfort levels that aren't obviously explicable; fighting one minute, jumping to defend the next; trust and loyalty; and discovering "brothers", in spite of completely different backgrounds.4. The relationships among the adults: While Blue Sargent's household is anything but typical, it is indeed a family in every sense of the word. As one would expect in a house filled with women, there is sniping, but the admiration and support are very clear. I love the way the womens'relationship with the "kids" evolves.5. Genre: I appreciate Ms. Stiefvater's presentation of "Young Adult" material. Vocabulary is extensive, cursing is completely unnecessary, and real-life frienships and relationships are present. This is a book that, as a not-so-young-adult, I can thoroughly enjoy, as much as anything written by Nora Roberts or Dean Koontz; but the perk is, I can also share this with my 13 year old niece.6. Have I ever steered you wrong? Go. Get this book now.
1100841489	4.5 stars
439989802	SO SURPRISED at how much I ended up enjoying this,here's my extensive Booktalk/discussion: http://youtu.be/IQ1VoYa_PBU =D
3076700708	I really liked this book, even though it started out fairly slowly. The characters circled one another and the plot echoed quietly in the background, emerging and fading again while the characters interacted. At first, it felt like a wall of words created by this slightly obscure situation, but then everything seemed to sharpen into focus as the book progressed. The overall goal of the plot, which revolved around the discovery and waking of Glenower, began to take shape and the motivations for each character’s participation in this central conflict merged as well, allowing each individual to round and shape into a more lifelike character. The sub plot of the dead road/ley line was interesting also, and formed an integral part of the world building.At first, I felt like there were several stereotypical stock characters- the new age family of tarot readers, the wealthy kids, the townies, and the outcast, but after circling one another for around 25% of the book, the action began to build and the plot started becoming cohesive on specific character driven aspects and motivations. This is the point at which the book really pulled me in.This is a complex and detailed novel-particularly for the YA genre. It needs to be, as the action begins to build and various characters come together for the finale (which required quite a bit of set up) which does indeed wrap everything up nicely. I am looking forward to the next book in the series. I noticed that the reviews on this are fairly mixed. I liked the presentation and style. The only reason I am not rating it five stars is that I felt like it took a bit too long to get started. It went a little way past the set-up stage, and felt like it meandered a little as well. The character and world building were clearly necessary, but at times I felt like specific plot elements were withheld, probably to increase suspense, but the net effect was somewhat confusing at times. Once those plot elements were allowed to fully emerge into the story, everything took on a much quicker pace and crisp focus.4.5 stars.
2211474707	I’m listing THE RAVEN BOYS as one of my favorites because it satisfies all my checkmarks for an exceptional read—excelling in plot, characters, writing, tension, love, twists/surprises, and humor.PLOT: This paranormal fantasy takes the reader on a scavenger-hunt style adventure to wake “the ley line,” illusive energy lines that connect the world with the unworldly—such as the 15th century Prince of Wales: Owen Glendower. The pursuit is dangerous, intriguing, thrilling, and fantastical!CHARACTERS: Who can’t be enthralled by a group of prep-boy misfits (who attend the exclusive Aglionby Academy) who are joined by a public-school girl (named Blue) who is herself a hub of paranormal energy and lives with a household of psychics? Each character is uniquely gifted, and all share a common goal: find the ley line before the bad guys do.WRITING: Author Maggie Stiefvater truly shines in this category! Here are two samples:There are trees, and then there are trees at night. Trees after dark become colorless and sizeless and moving things….The wind through the leaves was like the bellows of exhaled breath and the hiss of the rain on the canopy was like a sucked-in sigh. The air smelled like wet soil.andCrouching, he hovered his free hand over the water. His fingers spread wide, millimeters from the surface. Beneath his hand, the water shifted and darkened, and Blue realized that there were a thousand tiny fish just underneath. They flashed silver and then black as they moved, clinging to the faint shadow he cast.TENSION: Blue has been told that if she kisses her true love, he will die. And she’s falling for two of the Aglionby boys! Need I say more? (And this is just one of the tension-inciting sub-plots!)LOVE: See the tension category!TWISTS/SURPRISES: Some of the twists are a bit far-fetched, but that’s expected in a paranormal fantasy! The ending is satisfying while leaving some unanswered questions for book 2 in the series: THE DREAM OF THIEVES. (Yes, I’m definitely going to buy all the books in the series!!!)HUMOR: I loved the banter between the characters; it was clever, subtle, and refreshing! Here’s what I mean:“Out of the blue?” Calla asked.”I’d prefer if you didn’t use that expression,” Blue said.This book earned five stars from me and has been listed in my favorites bookshelf! And thank you to my daughter for recommending this great read!
2135886838	Just as great as the first time.
1766358061	“Is this thing safe?""Safe as life," Gansey replied.”creepy; enchanting; slow-burning & magical4 starsi loveee the vibe that this book was giving off it was so eerie and one of the main reasons why I was drawn in. It was so mysterious i instantly wanted to know what was going on and find out more about the characters. Also that starting chapter got me hooked. #sh00k from the begnning Well, this review is 2 months late HAHA but I definitely had to write one even if it was very short to note down my journey with this book before I dive even deeper into the dream thieves.Not gonna lie, it was hard to get into this book in the beginning but I loved every page after I began to get used to the beautiful writing style. If you’re not into overly long descriptions, then this book might not be for you because every chapter is filled with them; but personally I LOVED reading them I have no idea why. There is just something really addictive in the way the Maggie Stiefwater writes that just drew me in.This book is not really everyone’s cup of tea. This one is mostly a character based story with a very slow-burning plot. And if you don’t end up loving the characters there isn’t much of a reason to continue because this is imo a very character driven story.The whole quest that these boys are in is very fascinating and the paranormal aspect in this book is very well pulled-off. The characters in these book were absolutely wonderful and were probably the main reasons why I ended up liking this book.Blue Sargent Blue is a very interesting main protagonist. She is smart and resourceful and not ready to accept fate and i think i'm going to like her character in the next few books.Richard Gansey Quite a lot people don't really like Gansey but i love him because he is so candid and frank. He is really lovable and charming and smart and dedicated <3Adam Parrish Adam on the other hand is a bit of a mystery to me. I liked him because he was very sweet and hardworking but i am a bit confused by his personality especially after the ending.Noah Czerny Noah's character is hard to judge at the moment but he seemed really sweet and loyal and i can't wait for more scenes with him in it.Ronan Lynch Honestly, there is nothing left to say except that I LOVE Ronan Lynch more than any other character in this book.This story is not like a typical YA Paramormal book so far and i am so excited to see how it develops!07/1/17HONESTLY I HAVE NO WORDS (RTC)and that last line *slow claps* well ronan lynch there you go, making me like you even more honestly a little confused but i want the next one LIKE RNPre-reading: STARTING OUT 2016 2017 WITH A BANG (i hope) *crosses fingers*this is probably the most hyped series i've seen in booktube and GR and sooo it's time to experiment reading this w the adorable <3 sharon & cheska
2249788009	"excelsior," gansey said bleakly. blue asked, "what does that even mean?" gansey looked over his shoulder at her. he was, once more, just a little bit closer to the boy she'd seen in the churchyard."onward and upward."once upon a time i wrote out a proper review for this book and i don't know what happened to it. which about sums up why i hardly write real reviews anymore. but this is my favorite series of all time. rereading this book is the equivalent of snuggling up on the couch with a bowl of popcorn and your favorite movie, knowing you have no obligation to move for the next week. something about Maggie Stiefvater's writing feels so tangible. it's extremely easy to get lost in. i once made a joke to a friend about how her books are not about the plot, they're about the vibes (immaculate.) which isn't to say that i don't love the plot, i do, just that maggie stiefvater writes books i want to live in.
1931866391	Español - English“Estás buscando un dios. ¿No se te ha ocurrido pensar que también hay un diablo?"Este es un libro de fantasía en toda regla. Lo tiene todo: Personajes maravillosos, complejos y tan diferentes unos de otros.Una hermosa escritura, captura desde la primera página. La historia es diferente (aunque no en la edad de los protagonistas: 17, esa edad es la usual para cualquier libro YA).Aunque sí debo decir que no me terminó de cuadrar el desenlace final.----This is a full-fledged fantasy book. Has it all:Wonderful characters, complex and so different from each other.A beautiful script, capture from the first page.The story is different (although not in the age of the protagonists: 17, that age is the usual for any book NOW).Although I must say that I did not like that much the ending.
2434646791	Viendo los comentarios en GR, realmente me llegué a cuestionar si yo estaba leyendo el mismo libro. Sintiéndolo mucho por todos los lectores a los que les fascinó (sé que duele cuando otros no disfrutan una lectura que a uno le gusta), pero yo la encontré una novela aburridísima, que no me enganchó en ningún momento y que terminé por pura tozudez.Pero vamos desgranando. No me agradó el estilo de Maggie Stiefvater, demasiadas vueltas para caracterizar a unos personajes que, por su simpleza, no se merecen tantas páginas; porque advierto que recién pasados los primeros dos tercios de la novela empieza a pasar “algo”. Y lo más cómico es que el nudo de ese “algo” no tiene nada que ver con la premisa con la que se introduce la novela.Entiendo que es el primer libro de una saga y que la autora quiera guardarse algunas cartas para ir develando en los siguientes libros, pero no todas!!! En mi caso, lo único que logró es que no me importara lo más mínimo lo que pasara en la trama y con los personajes. Volviendo a los personajes, para mí no fueron más que un grupo de chicos pijos (que involucran a otros no tan pijos) que, gracias al dinero e indolencia de sus familias, pueden darse el lujo de iniciar una búsqueda que no tiene ni pies ni cabeza, y cuyos motivos son de lo más comunes: ¿tener fortuna?, ¿mejorarse de una dolencia?, ¿superar un problema de salud?… No sé, muy débil para mí, es lo que quiere el 100% de los habitantes de este planeta.Bueno, como podrán deducir, no tengo el más mínimo interés en continuar con los siguientes libros. Reto #26 PopSugar 2018: Un libro con un animal en el título
1545926102	Buddy read with The Raven Cycle (Re)readathon!3.5, but I'm feeling generous."Fate," Blue replied, glowering at her mother, "is a very weighty word to throw around before breakfast."This is probably not the way it should be done, but I’ll start this review spending a few, just a few words about the other two books I read by this author: The Scorpio Races and Shiver. And although I loved and former and loathed the latter, although they are light years away one from the other and should never, ever be compared, they do have at least one thing in common, and that is: they have nothing in common with The Raven Boys. This is the fundamental fact about Maggie Stiefvater, and maybe also the trait of her work that is more dear to me: story-wise, she is unrecognizable. If you’re not one of those super observant readers unhealthily obsessed with the writing, and if someone asked you to read Shiver and then The Raven Boys without informing you that they are both written by the same person, I strongly doubt you’d recognize her. It’s a good thing. It means that she is a rounded writer, that she can reinvent herself anew every single time she picks up the pen, that she’s not at risk of being repetitive and reiterative. And I strongly second that.Onto the book now. •I’m going to say this first only because if you’re yet to read it, it’s better if you’re prepared, but it’s not by any means what’ll first come to my mind when I’ll think about this book in the future. The Raven Boys is really slow. And it’s not just about the plot, but about everything: it took me ages to get attached to the characters, and I’m not so sure I truly am; it took me ages to feel a spark of interest in what they were doing, and again, even when I did feel it, I don’t think it was a spark so much as a tiny fickle; it took me ages to bring myself to enjoy the kind of quote, unquote, magic system Stiefvater puts into play, and... well, I don't think I have to repeat that.•The most remarkable feature of the book is the writing. In this book Maggie Stiefvater proves to be a highly skilled writer, a true expert in the field, in so many ways and with so many little and yet significative details and refinements I can't even begin to list them all. When she writes, there is no room left for approximation or guesstimation, no almost nor maybe. There are facts, and that is it. But her facts are layered: and she peels away one layer after the other, slowly, carefully, lovingly, and then you have your fact, throbbing and aching like living, bare flesh.But her being precise doesn't affect the liveliness of the world she depicts. A writer can be able to dissect a sould in its tiniest bits, but if after his surgery what's left is just a pile of sterile atoms, then this doesn't make him a proficient writer, just a clumsy one. I can assure you that the Maggie of The Raven Boys does not fit the latter category.•The characters. As I said, I was unable to connect with them, with any of them. Ronan was funny sometimes. Gansey and Adam have an fascinating dynamic. Noah has a secret for you to uncover. And my interest in Blue's thoughts and way of thinking was a bit fluctuating, but at least it was there. Nonetheless, they are all multifaceted, deep characters, with the exception maybe of Noah (who has that secret, yes, but it's not as if the author explores how he actually deals with it) and, in part, Blue, who in my opinion had even much more potential than this. My point is, this characters are worth attention and well-rounded, but they couldn't make me feel invested in them. My admiration for them is purely platonic, theoretical (I apologize for the big words, I can't think of a better term to express this concept), but right now they could all die and I couldn't care less.•The magic system or whatever you like to call it. I must admit that sometimes my suspension of disbelief wavered, which hasn't happened to me in a long, long time. I guess it was all just too vague to really captivate me. •Which is strictly connected to the reason why I am not a fan of the plot either. It's too loose, almost indecisive, and as much as I like and prefer this kind of unconventional storyline to the trite, usual 'there's the villain, gather up a gang and go get rid of him', this time it just didn't manage to get my attention.Simply put, read this if you can turn a blind eye on the plot and the pace in order to enjoy a wonderful writing style and well-written, compelling characters. Personally, what I ask of the sequels is even more instrospection and character development, and I am pretty sure I won't be disappointed.
1953134704	check out my vlog: https://youtu.be/Xdmn1R1plxksecond review: okay idk what the fuck my first review was because i rated it high and said it was my “favorite” but i never continued and actually stopped caring ANYWAYS i read this book for a vlog where i’m reading the entire series and wow NOW i think i can actually consider this book a favorite (imagine i never read the rest of the series and history repeats itself)first review: the first time i read this book it was over summer and i was trying to get out of a reading slump, i ended up putting it on hold. I liked the book but i didn’t understand the hype around it. A few days ago i decided to listen to the audiobook and though i didn’t like the narrator it still didn’t take away my enjoyment from the book. Honestly i loved this book now and it’s one of my favorite, I can’t wait to get through the rest of the books, i definitely give this book 4.5 stars
1580919288	*** 4.65 ***A buddy read with the fabulous fans of Fairy Tales at BB&B!!! Maggie Stiefvater has stolen my heart!!!! I had no idea what I was missing!!! And I blame my GR friends for that, because they never said how the masterful, intricate, absolutely entrancing writing this author utilizes can grab a hold of your imagination and drown you in the magic of the story!!! I was a hostage of the beauty and the plot of this first installment of The Raven Cycle from beginning to end, and I fully forgot the rest of the world... It is a good thing I went to vote before I began reading. ...I had seen reviews going through my GR feed and they were pretty various, although the consensus was that it is a good, if slow developing book. I was not very interested... However, My friend Luke's review and the buddy read at BB&B for the whole series got me thinking that this is a good time to check it out. And am I glad I did so!!! This is a perfectly paced, none first person POV story with heavy undertones of a classical Fairy Tale. Being a fan of all Fantasy genres, I have grown lazy with all the first person story telling and spoon-feeding of feelings, thoughts, and description of settings... Not until I get confronted with this type of observational, sophisticated and deliberate writing that I feel my brain awakening and tingling with the pleasure of the mastery of word weaving!!! I can honestly say that Ms. Stiefvater won a spot in my heart and has become one of the authors whose every book will be on my to read list! The Raven Boys is a story of a small town in Virginia, filled with people big and small, rich and poor, those mundane and those infused with the temperamental magic of the surrounding world. It is a story about the substance and spirit of life and death, about the place of family in shaping us as people and those we choose to surround ourselves with. It is a story of the value of friendships, meaning of sacrifice, and the gradations of love... It is a story of young people trying to find their place in society and finding ways to cope with the unexpected. And it is all crafted by the hand of a natural storyteller with magical ability to craft words and interlace story-lines in an enchanting and winsome manner!!! The Raven Boys, so called because of the schools' they go to Raven emblem, are usually well to do, affluent young men from prominent families, and interspersed among them is the occasional scholarship kid... The town the school is in is average small town America, the people are the same as you would see everywhere in real life, and the ladies of 300 Fox Way are as quirky and off-beat as they come. Blue, the youngest resident of this address, is 17 and has never been kissed! No, she is not ugly, no decayed teeth or foul breath, and I can not think of anything repulsive about her. But she is afraid. You see, ever since she can remember, her mother, ants and two friends who live with them, all of them gifted psychics and fortune tellers, have told her that if she ever kisses her true love, he will die!!! Tum-tum-tuuuuummmmm!!!! How do you like them apples? Imagine having to live with that knowledge all of your life. As a well meaning and nice young lady, Blue enacts a self-imposed referendum on ever kissing anyone, since she truly wishes no one dead! Enter Adam, Gansey, Ronan and Noah, boys from the school upon which the locals look with disfavor. Blue knew better than to get involved with them. But life becomes so much more interesting with her new friends in her life... The characters are so well crafted, their personality so specifically detailed and vastly diverse, that you KNOW them!!! The plot is slow developing and this book is not for those with short attention span!!! You would blink and miss some small detail which would define a character trait or a plot hint and after you might find yourself confused and eventually frustrated and bored... This book is best enjoyed by settling down and letting the characters, not action, lead you to the conclusion... I would strongly recommend this to the fans of a leisurely developing, fantastic fairy tale stories and would advise to ask yourself if you have the patience to read it at this time. If not, just bump it for when you feel like a lyrical and magical, at times dark and spooky, tale of an American small southern town... I wish y'all happy reading and many, many good books!!!
1146535365	* 4.5/5 stars! The most unique YA book I've ever read. Highly recommend it! I cannot wait to see what Blue and the raven boys are up to next.
2157641748	First read - 4 starsSecond read - 5 starsI love this story more than I initially realised ❤️✨
