2392508075	A definite 5* EDIT: Having now read the highest rated reviews of the book I'm amazed at the amount of vitriol on show. I've no idea what provoked it. I stand by my opinion and don't recognise the novel portrayed in many of these reviews.The Magicians immediately appealed to my writer bones. There a great many sharply observed and cuttingly sarcastic lines. There a good few beautiful ones. Along with the Victorian sensibilities of the Brakebills school of magic Lev Grossman adopts a witty almost drawing room prose that has notes of Oscar Wilde and the later Evelyn Waugh. More recently it puts me in mind of the literary excellence of Josiah Bancroft.So the writing is top notch. The characters? The plot? All very engaging too.I have seen some reviewers make a big deal of the point of view character, Quentin Coldwater, being an unsympathetic protagonist. I really didn’t get that. The book has been called Harry Potter for grownups (it contains a magic school, what else will people call it?) and certainly Quentin is no brave-hearted, resilient hero-in-the-making in the model of young Mr Potter. He’s flawed, human, he variously feels sorry for himself, or thinks too much of himself… What part of this is not covered by “for grownups”? Quentin is someone unable to be happy. Even when given exactly what he wants. This is a part of the human condition, no rarer than blue eyes, especially in the teenage years. I enjoyed the skill with which it was shown to us and the gradual building of consequences.The supporting cast are interesting. The magic school is more of a university and so we have drinking and sex. We have rich, privileged kids affecting disaffection, forming cliques, being overbearingly intellectual. It’s all very well drawn and often amusing. It’s often genuinely clever too. I enjoyed spending time in the company of these complex characters.We rattle through the school section considerably faster than I thought we would. I think a couple of years are knocked off in a single chapter at one point. The magic is interesting too. It’s not handed over in detail, there’s no Wingardium Leviosa, but we get a strong impression of its highly technical and fiddly nature. Thankfully we don’t have to suffer through that like the students do and we get to see some flashy magic later on.So half the book is Quentin going to school and learning his trade in a Harry Potter minus Dumbledore and Voldemort style. The second half, heavily foreshadowed and linked to in the first half, involves what is an unmistakeable … let’s call it “homage” … to Narnia. It’s called Fillory in the book but we will call it what it is here. Narnia.Anyway, Quentin has been obsessed with the Narnia books since he was a small child. Narnia is where he wants to go, needs to go, will go and where he will find the happiness that keeps slipping through his fingers.And yes they go, via the rings (button) from the first Narnia book and the Wood Between The Worlds (now paved over with the pools converted into fountains). Narnia comes complete with fauns in the snow, a family of talking beavers, and a need to have two daughters of Eve and two sons of Adam wear the crowns and sit as kings and queens in Cair Paravel.Of course instead of the Pevensie children it is now a collection of variously drunk, messed up, twenty-one year old magicians with relationship issues, subcutaneous demons, and at least one handgun. They do have to deal with the aftermath of the Pevensie visit though.It’s all very well done and both cleverly deconstructs and goes beyond the Narnia books into its own post-CS Lewis plot that feeds nicely back into puzzling elements within the first half of the book.In short this is a really good read. More sophisticated than most genre work, which I guess is why it is sometimes cited as a “crossover” book. To my mind though it is simply very well written fantasy. Harry Potter for grownups. Plus Narnia for grownups. Join my Patreon Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes...
1167334294	I know this is a thing us bibliophiles really shouldn't say EVER, but: I think the show is way better.Don't hurt me.When I started watching the SYFY version of The Magicians and actually really liked it, I made a quick mental note to go back and read this book first before I got too far into it. Because the book can usually be relied on to be better, I wanted to experience it in written format first. In this case, though, the book makes the story more boring, the characters downright insufferable, and it contains less of an emotional pull.I've heard others pulling up comparisons to Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia, and I can see the obvious influence of both - a boarding school for magicians and doorways to a secret world - but The Magicians lacks the magical spark of either. In fact, it only barely feels like a fantasy novel, reminding me more of Tartt's The Secret History with a touch of magic (something that may or may not sound appealing). Actually, that description fits so right that I wonder if I stole it from someone else... Anyway, this is about a bunch of smart beyond belief characters who walk around being self-obsessed and annoying. “Are you smart?”There was no non-embarrassing answer to this.“I guess.”“Don’t worry about it, everybody here is. If they even brought you in for the Exam you were the smartest person in your school, teachers included.” It feels like it's about pretentious people being pretentious. Don’t get me wrong, I like smart characters. I like unlikable characters, even. Characters who do stupid things for stupid reasons can quickly irk me, as can self-sacrificing heroes who fail to show that people are complex, difficult and selfish at times.But I enjoy it when characters actually show me intellectual acuity and emotional maturity. I’m not so convinced when page one introduces us to our characters who are pretty much the best at everything, have crazy GPAs, wealthy families, secure futures and still manage to feel so damn sorry for themselves. Let's all quote Milton and celebrate the misery of our perfect lives!In the TV show, the characters are not quite so annoying. Their intellect is quirky and charming, and their dissatisfaction with life more convincing. And - maybe because it is the nature of a TV show - it was nice to actually be shown something, rather than simply told it.The book is so self aware. So very sure of its own superiority as a “literary” version of a magic school. I feel like we’re rarely shown anything, just constantly told by the author how special Fillory is and how sophisticated the characters are. We are told that Quentin’s intellect is virtually beyond compare, and yet he’s a blubbering idiot for a lot of the novel (plus childish and lacking in any growth).Truth be told - it's boring. I'm not sure how it's possible to make a story that borrows so heavily from two of the most exciting series out there into something this tedious, but here you are! An emotionally-detached third-person narrative that instructs us in the story and characters, instead of ever weaving a compelling tale.I'll stick to the TV show.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store
67000225	This book has been hard-pedaled as an adult Harry Potter and it is-but with a soulless little git like Draco Malfoy as the main protagonist. Grossman doesn't get to the genuine transformative joy possible in books about other worlds and magic, the metaphorical kick one can bring to the reader. This is a cold and sterile book for people who think themselves too sophisticated for genre fiction, a sub-section of the reading public that, I suspect, includes the author.To be fair there are certain things Grossman does well. There are isolated set-pieces of violence and magical ritual gone wrong, that are thrilling, scary and visceral. He also is very clever at conveying the huge rush of empowerment a disenfranchised teen would feel when uncovering then honing magical powers. The old riff of a nobody becoming somebody is done well here, even though it’s crouched in dry, clinical and mechanistic terms that undermine its effectiveness. And that’s the rub here. For every scene of terror and beauty, there are two that are clumsy and lame. Grossman presents certain key plot elements so obtusely that they hit like a feather instead of a hammer. He condenses action at the wrong times, has pivotal stuff occur off-stage as it were and just doesn’t deliver from page to page either on the commercial fiction scale or one grander. Traditional Fantasy Novels power(as well as their stodgy childishness) lie to a degree in their pedagogical function. They are to an extent primers for young people on how to behave, how to become a more effective human being, how to be brave in the face of adversity and to learn to be selfless on occasion even though ones adolescent genes(and jeans) are screaming for pure selfish, solipsistic, I am the center of the universe, expression. So there is a journey up Mount Doom by sad, wounded Frodo and stout, brave Sam. And Harry Potter puts his nuts on the line over and over against that nose-less wonder, Voldemort, secure in the knowledge that Ron and Hermione always have his back. They are, in the course of their journeys, becoming braver and stronger and less rooted in their myopic view of things. In Grossman’s novel, the protagonist starts out as a selfish turd, segue ways to more selfish turdism, and then does a sideways double back flip into being (you guessed it) a selfish turd. This is refreshing to an extent-how like real life it is-people seldom change unless confronted by trauma or some extreme events. But in Grossman’s hands it is just one more nail in the coffin, taking an eminently worthwhile premise(adult Harry Potter, twisted Narnia) and magically transforming it through bad craft into utter shit.
200972934	The story of a quasi-sociopathic high school cretin who mouth-breathes his way into an exclusive fantasy club of anhedonic wizards - replete with bad writing and worse story-telling. Enjoy.
1865467166	Pretend Harry Potter was a bit of a narcissistic douchebag and all of his friends were whiny a-holes who drank too much.Now pretend that they crammed 5 years' worth of their Hogwarts adventures into one book. Except most of the adventures are fairly mundane, with a few exceptions sprinkled here and there.Then pretend at the very end of said book, they all took a trip to a warped version of Narnia...with mixed results.Now, if you're the type of reader who absolutely has to like the main character, or feels like you need to at the very least sympathize with them?Then you may want to give this one a pass.I knew going into it that this was a story populated with moody dickholes, so that part of it didn't bother me.What I didn't realize was that this was going to be a fairly random, rambling book. It just sort of goes along at its own pace, telling the story it wants to tell, without much regard to how much you want it to get to the fucking point already.The short version?Quentin finds out he's one of the elite few magicians in the world, and then embarks on a rather dull journey to find his place in the world.Ok, now having said all of that, you may be wondering why I gave this 4 stars. Well, first off, because I read the shit out of it. I can't for the life of me pinpoint why, but I didn't want to put it down. I just had to keep reading. And I had a lot of stuff to do that weekend!And, second, I really enjoyed the way the story sort of started out one way and then ended up in a completely different spot than I thought it would. Full circle craziness! <--in the blandest way imaginable, of course. Oh, and for those of you who are wondering?Yeah, this is absolutely nothing like the television show. And by absolutely nothing I mean, duh, it has stuff in common! Hello? It's based on the books! But it looks like they took the general idea of the books and made a show out of it, instead of making a faithful rendition of the story.Anyhoo. I probably wouldn't have read this if I hadn't started binging the show on Netflix one Saturday with my son. But after 6 or 7 episodes we were kinda burned out. It felt like a low-budget show about whiners at a college for magic, and neither of us felt like pressing Next Episode.BUT.I was curious enough to see what inspired it... I'll be the first to admit this is a Not For Everyone book, but I enjoyed it. Then again, I like weird stuff...
293605624	This was in a special category for me: books whose positive reception make me question my membership in the human race. After finishing it I stared at the glowing blurbs on the back, looked up some positive reviews online, and thought, who are these people? What could they have been thinking? How could they possibly be so different from me? After that it took a few days of solid social interaction with good friends to convince me that I actually had something in common with my fellow humans -- that they weren't a bunch of ineffable Lovecraftian things hiding in bodies that looked like mine.(The most extreme version of this experience I've ever had was with Special Topics in Calamity Physics, a book widely praised but so staggeringly, contortedly bad that when I tried to review it, I got to 4300 words and gave up in despair because I hadn't even half exhausted all the issues I had with it.)What The Magicians very clearly wants to be is a darker, more realistic, more laddish version of Harry Potter or Narnia, combining the cutesy, whimsical worldbuilding of children's fantasy with adolescent protagonists who are horrible little shits in the way real adolescents are horrible little shits. So far, so good, I guess -- I mean it could have been a really funny parody, at least. However, Grossman isn't really going for parody. His book is rarely laugh-out-loud funny, and he seems to want the reader to feel invested in his characters and impressed with the psychological realism of his twist on the fantasy novel. Unfortunately, I was unable to rise to this task, because of the following basic fact about The Magicians:Everything in this book is determined by Grossman's desire to imitate or respond to his literary models, not by considerations of human behavior. The characters don't act the way they do because real people (or even some distorted version of real people) would act that way, but because their actions contrast with the way Grossman imagines a "standard" children's fantasy character would behave in the same situation. The fantasy world(s) in which the story is set do not make sense, but are supposed to be impressive simply because they are darker and grittier than their literary models. If you stop thinking of everything as a genre joke and start thinking of it as an actual story about people, it falls apart completely.This is especially bad because the Grossman yearns to be patted on the back for writing a "realistic" fantasy novel. But unlike, say, China Mieville, he doesn't try for realism by seriously thinking about how the darker side of human nature would play itself out in a magical world. He just takes a set of models (HP and Narnia), makes them darker and more vulgar (in implausible and nonsensical ways), and then, having conflated edginess with realism, sits back and expects us to be impressed.For the first two-thirds of the book, the primary model is Harry Potter, and the primary "realistic" twist is that the characters in magic school are bored. Although the main characters are all very impressed with the idea of learning magic when they first reach the magic school (which as in HP resides in a coexisting culture kept secret by magic), they quickly lose interest and start spending all of their time drinking to excess, playing pool, and bitching about people they know and the general tedium of their little lives. This is kind of a funny idea, but the transition from curiosity to indifference is not made real. The characters simply go from one pole to the other in the course of a very short number of pages (covering months of in-story time). As with everything else in the book, Grossman seems to have been so pleased with his clever twist on his literary models that he didn't think he needed to make it psychologically natural. The characters are bored, and being bored is unadmirable, and that means it's realistic -- what more psychology do you need?!The characters' incuriosity spares Grossman from having to fill in many of the details of his fantasy world -- if no one asks a question, the reader never hears its answer. Harry Potter also relies on this mechanism, but it makes much more sense there because the characters are younger. They enter magic school around age 12 -- an age when many people are still forming their basic worldviews. As a result, it's easy to imagine that they just take the existence of magic in stride, rather than going around grabbing lapels and demanding explanations. Grossman's characters, though, are 18 when the book begins, and it's difficult for me to imagine an 18-year-old who wouldn't freak out in some way when confronted with the existence of a hidden magic world. Remember, the characters are literally discovering a vast conspiracy -- wizards have been hiding magic from everyone for centuries. Why do they do it? Why don't wizards use magic to improve the world of ordinary humans? Harry Potter at least makes gestures towards answering these questions; The Magicians doesn't even do that, because the main characters -- bafflngly -- don't seem to give a shit.Grossman even goes out of his way to specify at the beginning that his protagonist, Quentin Coldwater, is a physics nerd who, at 18, is taking college-level advanced physics classes. (I was pleased to see him name-check Differential Geometry, which is exactly the sort of subject that such an advanced high school student might know a few things about.) Now, I also like physics, and if I were transported to magic land one of the things I would ask, in the course of my frantic label-grabbing question-asking "how can this be fucking possible?" tour, is how magic interacts with the laws of fundamental physics. I mean, physicists have developed these theories that seem to explain everything we can observe, and yet there's this extremely powerful force out there which could be harnessed by weird crusty old dudes centuries ago yet has escaped the notice of modern physics entirely? How?! Well, that's a question that Harry Potter sure isn't interested in answering, and one might hope that a book that fancies itself a grown-up HP, especially with a physics-nerd protagonist, would concern itself with it. Nope! Quentin doesn't care. He basically forgets about physics after the first few chapters. I understand that some people get less nerdy when they get to college, but come on -- at least show me the psychological process, Grossman. Later on there's a part where Quentin's studious girlfriend is working on a thesis about how to magically violate the uncertainty principle (ha!) and Quentin just thinks it's boring. Again, things work by the logic of cliches rather than the logic of psychology -- in the beginning Quentin is playing a nerd and later on he's playing a jaded college senior and his ostensible interests just adjust to fit the cliche of the moment.Why are these people so unhappy? They are in college learning a fascinating subject, their personal lives seem to involve no special difficulties above and beyond those of the average privileged college student, so where's the problem? Grossman so thoroughly fails to provide a motivation (remember, it's dark, so it must be realistic) that it starts to seem like all of the characters, and particularly Quentin, are probably just clinically depressed. This raises the question, though, of why none of them even consider this. The book covers seven years of magic school in a few hundred pages, which is a pretty remarkable span of time in which to be miserable and never ever think about why (except "magic land didn't satisfy me like I thought it would" -- again, good genre subversion but bad psychology -- why don't they wonder why they are unsatisfied?). The characters start out as 18-year-olds with the maturity of 14-year-olds and end up as 25-year-olds with the maturity of 14-year-olds. It's conceivable that someone could change this little in seven years, but again -- give me the damn psychology, Grossman.The only likable character in all of this is a sort of punk-ish nerd who the main characters all hate because he's really awkward, even though he spends all of his time doing interesting shit rather than drinking and bitching. Is this some kind of joke about how even in magic land (paradise for nerds?) awkward people will get treated poorly? But then we're supposed to sympathize deeply with the main characters and the difficulties they face as boring entitled assholes and I just don't get it. Where is my entry-way into these characters? I've read and enjoyed a lot of books about really awful people, but in all of those cases there was something that rang very true about the characters' particular brand of awfulness. Grossman's characters aren't awful in a way that feels real, they're just awful as a genre joke. Ha, bet you've never seen Harry Potter starring an asshole before! Nope, I haven't. But why is he an asshole? What's going on in his head? Come on, this is Creative Writing 101 stuff!In the last third of the book we switch over from Potter pastiche to Narnia pastiche and there's some metafictional stuff and a bunch of thematic stuff I would probably discuss if I cared more about what Grossman is trying to do. But I don't. His handling of his themes is so crude and inhuman that I just don't care what he's trying to say.There were a few scenes that I did really like, mostly those about elements of the fantasy world itself -- like a scene where the characters transform into birds and fly to Antarctica, or one about a powerful and sinister wizard who looks like Magritte's "Son of Man" painting. These scenes make me think that, ironically, Grossman would do much better if he tried to write a more ordinary, non-subversive fantasy novel. But this imaginative stuff never lasts for long, because Grossman has to keep us regularly updated on the characters' horrible lust triangles and how totally shitfaced they were last night. Blech.
121964736	*Originally reviewed in Sept. 2010*I have a Goordreads friend who likes this book. He expressed a thought that I might not. While not wholly correct about my take he came pretty close.: Well, first Stephen, you're right in a way, I don't like stories that are "downers just to be downers". The nihilistic attitude you see so often. I don't like the (as I've said before) "life is crap and then you die" story. So many today seem to think that for a story to have any depth it has to be deeply depressing. On the other hand if there is a reason for the sadness in a story then it makes sense (for example Julius Winsome,( Julius Winsome ) (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) one of the saddest books out there, but wonderful and highly recommended).But you were close to right about this one. It has (in my opinion) a lot of flaws. I'm sorry I feel this way for Dawn just gave it 5 stars and I agree with her on some books. So, please don't be insulted that we disagree here.I don't hate this book, but neither do I really care for it. For much of it's length it could be said that the book actually has no plot. It's a series of events in the life of Quentin and the other students at Brakebills magical college. Some books can get away with this (Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell for example) and still be excellent reads simply by dint of world building and characterization. This one sadly didn't manage it. It sort of stumbles along giving us insight into the personality of Quentin, Elliot, Janet, and Alice, which we "do use later" (every time I use that phrase I recall Andy Griffith using it in his "retelling" of Hamlet), and finally gets around to a story line maybe three quarters of the way through. The book has been compared to Harry Potter and Narnia. Well, I suppose if Harry were a selfish, snotty, creep...and Narnia had been conceived and written about by Stephen King this could be at least close to true. (Though King is a better writer.) In great part some of this book strikes me as written by someone (Lev Grossman) who wants to drag worlds where there is any hint of innocence and undiluted goodness into our tainted world and rub them down good with filth. This is a disillusioned, sad, and corrupted version of "the magical story". And also of magic worlds. It's not an "adult" take on it, it's a "disillusioned, tainted" take on it. It is a nihilist take on life in general told using the mode of a magic world. (view spoiler)[At one point in a discussion Quentin is told by the others he's the only one who still believes in "magic". They all know magic is real, but they're all disillusioned about it. (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[I would have rated this book a lot lower had Quentin not had his epiphany near the end of the book. No matter where he went, he took himself with him. The world they find isn't what he carried with him from the books he'd read and it was the presence of humans that had added to the evil and rot that they found. But, in his realization of this there was at least some point to what had happened in the book.In my opinion, not much, but a little. (hide spoiler)]I was under the impression also when I bought this book that it was one of the few to come out recently that was a stand alone novel, naive of me I admit. I see on the last page an add to watch for "The Magic King". I doubt I'll follow this volume up. I'm pretty sure at least I won't buy it as I did this one. So, 2 stars not one I'll reread. Finally I think (sadly) that Mr. Grossman (and possibly the audience he's attempting to appeal to) more or less sneer at the literary worlds he is supposedly giving homage to here. It put's me in mind of "kids" who attempt to "ironically enjoy" things actually sneering at them all the while. The sad part is that thinking themselves to be "above it all" they actually miss the joy and...yes the magic of the things at which they sneer and look down.No. I really don't care for and can't recommend this book. Barely 2 stars._________________Update May 2016Having watched one season of the TV series based on this book and finding it "not bad" I decided to reread the book and see if my view or views on it would have changed.Nope, sorry. While I sort of liked the series (1st season) I stilol think the same about the book.By the way, I also lost interest in the TV series after a couple of episodes in the next season so...sigh. Oh well.
90538905	(Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.)(UPDATE: After reading other reviews online, I realized that I could've made my point even more succinctly by simply saying the following: "Oh, wonderful -- another dour academe writes another fussy, joyless genre exercise, designed specifically for MFA circle-jerks who consider themselves 'above' such silly frippery. Yeah, that's exactly what the world needed." I like that review much more than my original one below, which as commenters have already noted, sounds like I didn't get the fact that Grossman deliberately ripped off the Harry Potter storyline, precisely to make the point that such a world would actually be fussy and joyless. I get that Grossman deliberately ripped off Harry Potter; my point is that he's an untalented f-cking hack for doing so, and that such a thing is profoundly offensive to those of us who are adult genre fans, and who do enjoy the Harry Potter books precisely for their sense of joy and wonder.)Regular readers know that I mostly judge books here on relative terms -- relative to the author's experience, relative to my natural interest in its subject, relative to the amount of money that was spent promoting that book. And that's why I was so excited to get my hands on Lev Grossman's The Magicians, one of the most heavily hyped books of last autumn, because it comes with an excellent pedigree: written by the main book critic for Time magazine, it is purportedly an inventive urban-fantasy tale described by many as "Harry Potter for grown-ups" (or technically, "Harry Potter meets Narnia for grown-ups," the milieu of each taking up either half of Grossman's own novel), and with a whole series of gushing blurbs on the back cover from a whole series of impressive authors, with no less than Junot Diaz calling it "stirring, complex and adventurous." (Of course, this nicely illustrates as well the inherent ethical problems with a book reviewer writing and publishing their own creative work; because who's to say that any of these quoted authors actually meant any of the praise they give, and aren't instead terrified of Grossman doing a hatchet job on their own books for refusing to play along? That's why I'm such a stickler for the idea that professional book reviewers should never, ever publish their own creative work in the field of whatever type of literature they're paid to review, and why a big red flag goes up in my head every time one of them does.)And it's for all these reasons that this book's massive shortcomings made me not just disappointed but actively infuriated; because when people say that this is "Harry Potter for grown-ups," they mean that it is a literal beat-for-beat plagiaristic ripoff of the Harry Potter books, such a thoroughly naked steal of someone else's ideas that I'm legitimately surprised that JK Rowling hasn't sued Grossman back into the stone age. Don't believe me? Well, just look at the evidence -- it's about a group of teenagers who receive mysterious invitations to attend a magic school, housed in a crumbling gothic castle located several hours north of a major metropolitan area, hidden from the public by powerful illusion spells and full of delightfully quirky tics like moving staircases and disappearing doors, overseen by a wise but childlike white-bearded authority figure, who just happens to own a magical map showing the location of all residents at any given moment, where for some reason all renovations seem to have been banned somewhere around the middle of the Victorian Age, which for an equally inexplicable reason has adopted both the structure and even the terms of the British educational system despite being an American school, whose students enjoy on the weekends an intercollegiate sport that's much like the magical version of a human game, and where it turns out that spell-casting is actually a fairly tedious academic process of memorization and proper inflection. J-sus, Grossman, you untalented hack, why don't you throw in a Golden F-cking Snitch while you're at it?Now, I acknowledge that genre novels by nature are always going to share a certain amount of elements with other novels in that genre, and in fact I have no problem with that when it's done well and used merely as a starting point; for an excellent example, see Susanna Clarke's fantastic Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell, which takes a very Potteresque concept (magic actually exists in open hiding all around us) but instead does something strikingly original with the idea, creating an entire millennium-long fake history of the UK and then focusing in on the dysfunctional fuddy-duddys who are the masters of this made-up applied science. But in The Magicians, Grossman presents not even a single solitary idea that he didn't steal from someone else, essentially making the whole thing feel like the unnecessary fan-fiction product of some 17-year-old goth girl who's jealous that Rowling beat her to the punch; and while that would be fine if this actually was a piece of xeroxed fan fiction from a 17-year-old goth girl with no original ideas of her own, it's f-cking inexcusable when it's the most heavily hyped book of the year, and comes from the main book critic of Time f-cking magazine. J-sus, what a godd-mned waste of my time this derivative piece of sh-t was. F-CK YOU, LEV GROSSMAN, for stealing a week of my life that I will never get back.Out of 10: 0.0
220148940	I passed on reading this book when it first came out because I was underwhelmed by the author's first book Codex. The excessively negative reviews about The Magicians peaked my interest. The complaints these reviewers had actually made me want to read the book. The positive reviews confirmed my growing suspicion that I should read this book. Although I am late to the party I must say I am glad that I overcame my initial reluctance because I loved this book. Unfortunately this book was marketed as an adult book for Harry Potter fans. There is some truth in this marketing scheme, but too many people who are ardent Harry Potter fans are not the proper readership for this book. One reviewer said how much he despised this book, but that the "hipsters" would like it. What! Wait! does that mean I'm a hipster reader. I'm finally... cool. I probably just lost my hipster status using the word cool. I was afraid that this would be a year one, year two, etc. magical school book series. Not so. Grossman smokes through 5 years of Brakebills in quick order giving us highlights, but leaving a lean script that keeps the pages turning. One of my favorite scenes is when the main character Quentin Coldwater and his friends are turning into geese to fly to Brakebills South in Antarctica. "Days, weeks, maybe months and years passed. Who knew or cared? Quentin had never experienced peace and satisfaction like this. He forgot about his human past, about Brakebills or Brooklyn. Why hang on to them? He had no name anymore. He barely had any individual identity, and he didn't want one. What good were such human artifacts? He was an animal. His job was to turn bugs and plants into muscle and fat and feathers and flight and miles logged. He served only his flock-fellows and the wind and the laws of Darwin. And he served whatever force sent him gliding along the invisible magnetic rails, always southward, down the rough, stony coast of Peru, spiny Andes on his port, the sprawling blue Pacific on his starboard. He had never been happier." I actually found myself really thinking about what it would be like to be a goose. Professor Mayakovsky the teacher at Brakebills South really turns boys and girls into men and women. It is the boot camp of magic. Mayakovsky sums it up to Quentin on his first day. "You need to do more than memorize, Quentin. You must learn the principles of magic with more than your head. You must learn them with your bones, with your blood, your liver, your heart, your deek. He grabbed his crotch through his dressing gown and gave it a shake." Long before the reader gets to this point they will be well aware that they are not hanging out in Hogwarts, but I think this sentence illustrates the difference in approach that Grossman takes with Brakebills. Grossman doesn't shy away from Harry Potter. He actually makes a couple of references to the Hogwarts series. They are books in the evolving reality of the world he creates for this book. Our heroes, be they too human, moments of bravery wrapped around acts of cowardice finally arrive in Fillory. I was least interest in this portion of the book which makes me wonder if I will like the follow up book The Magician King. I've underestimated Grossman before so at some point I will give it a try. Most of the time I didn't even realize that I was reading a fantasy book. The characters reminded me of people that I went to college with. Grossman actually does a good job developing the characters. They are all interesting, flawed, very human characters that again made me believe in the reality of this world. I suppose because there is sex and copious alcohol consumption, although not flagrantly so, reviewers have made comparisons to Bret Easton Ellis. I will say all of the sex was in the context of the plot and even sometimes gave the plot a proper nudge. I have also seen comparisons to Donna Tartt and to me that is a closer comparison because the characters had more personality than what I experienced in Less than Zero. If you are looking for Harry Potter even an adult Harry Potter you should probably give this book a pass. If you are looking for just a damn good edgy book with well developed characters and a compelling plot than pick up a copy and start reading. Before you know it you will have consumed 100 pages and will be stealing time from the rest of your life to finish the remaining pages.
1759202095	(3.5? I might change it later) After deliberation I decided that the best way to describe this book is...A muggle born Draco Malfoy who grew up reading about Narnia, learns that magic is real and Narnia might be too...I think my main issue with his book was my own expectations. Too often people describe this book as Harry Potter books for grown ups and it's just not how I see it. The main character (all the characters actually!) is a depressed, "Iamverysmart" young adult who gets to go to a magical school thinking it's finally the answer to his unhappiness.The pacing is what left me the most unsatisfied. The first hundred pages, the main character is introduced, he passes the exams and goes through the first 2 years of school.... IN 100 PAGES!!He's done with school at around 200 pages. That's half the book!If I had known that, I would have probably have enjoyed the book a lot more. I'm not sure I liked the ending... but I'm definitely planning on continuing the series and cannot wait to see where it goes!So basically to enjoy this book you'll have to remember that the characters are unlikeable, only half the book contains the magical school so there won't be much "everyday life a la Harry Potter" here and that the school is basically just to open the magical universe.I'll watch the TV Show and update you :)
1171705021	Prepare yourselves for a rant-filled scathing review. So. Much. Hate. When I read the Martian I really never thought there would be a book I would hate more. But boy am I putting my foot in my mouth on that one! The Magicians was the winner by a landslide for The Most Obnoxious Book of the Year Award! Congratulations, Lev Grossman! Your book fucking sucks.This book was said to be the “adult version of Harry Potter.” Those are some big balls you have making that claim. Especially to someone like me. This is NOT anywhere near as good as Harry Potter. In fact, you may as well compare hippogriffs to flobberworms! I mean, seriously. The two aren't even in the same realm, let alone the same fucking genre. Everything that Harry Potter is is exactly what the Magicians isn’t.Now, I can forgive the idiot who decided to use the slogan “the adult version of Harry Potter” to help sell the Magicians. Clearly that person is a fucking moron who never read either book. It’s ok, I’ve forgiven him/her. What I can’t forgive is Lev Grossman creating the most obnoxious character I have ever encountered. That’s right! Step aside, Bella! Quentin has taken your place atop the list of Most Useless Main Character!Quentin is…oh dear. I am not even sure where to start. Quentin is just awful. He’s plagued with self-loathing and yet so incredibly full of himself that he he’s blinded by his own shit because his head is crammed up his own ass. The dumbass actually has the audacity to demean his girlfriend for cheating on him after he cheated on her. He acts as if he is completely innocent and then rips her to pieces verbally. That’s just one example but my god, what the fuck is wrong with you?! Great storytelling, Lev! The only memorable moment for me throughout this heaping pile of shit book was that they got turned into geese where they flew to the south pole…or was it the north? Ah, fuck it. It doesn't matter anyway because the whole storyline was pointless. Anyway, they later get turned into arctic foxes and then they fuck. The single most exciting moment in the whole entire book.But listen, this book has absolutely no point. None. Quentin figures out he is a special snowflake- shocker. And then goes to school at the Special Snowflake Academy where he learns some magic tricks. But no one knows where the magic comes from you know. Like it’s apart of your being, ya know. And it’s all like hipster meets grunge mentality there. Everyone is so fucking privileged but they do nothing but bitch about their parents and life. Oh. And the school? Well, that could have been interesting. But instead we get barely half of the book worth of schooling before they are all graduated and find out that their lives don’t matter. They can do everything. But…DUN DUN DUN! They can also do nothing! Fascinating. No? No. I suppose you’re right.I almost never tell people not to read books. But if you value your sanity I would stay far, far away from this book. What a disappointment. I will not be continuing the series. I do not care what happens to anyone in it. I don’t care to see how the story progresses. I do not care one bit. So please, do not tell me how awesome the rest of them are. I will kill you lock you up in my basement and feed you to Jeff and Mr. KIng.
70958413	I was ready to love this book, it's supposed to be Harry Potter like but more gritty, more realistic, more substantial, and I guess it is and I still like the idea of it. And yet this book did not work for me. I was really patient with it, I downplayed the initial irritation of incorporating the entire Potter premise. It's one thing to borrow bits and pieces, it's another to rip off a whole concept leaving out a few bits here and there and dressing up the rest. But since I'm a sucker for fantasy, so I was willing to let that go. Mimicry is the highest form of flattery, right? Mimic all you want, just make the story interesting and magical. But the story... Meh. The story lacked in optimism, was devoid of magic and the main character? I tried to like him, I understood him, I did not hate him, but I never really warmed up to him or to any of the other characters either. And what Grossman was trying to get across was a bit of a downer, outwardly depressing at times. It felt like he was striving to make the book something more than a mere fantasy novel, striving to grasp a deeper truth, striving to incorporate some existentialism into the story. Whatever. It might have strived but in the end it failed. At least it failed me. I would have liked it better if Grossman got in peace with the thought that you're writing a fantasy novel, and left it at that. There's nothing wrong with fantasy, not everything has to be high lit. So Mr. Grossman if you like me for your fan, don't take yourself that seriously, throw me a bone next time and put in some magic and a few optimistic thoughts into the story. Because you had the potions and the spells and all that shit, but in the end, it did not feel magical, not to me.
1641430515	This was a difficult review to write. I was immediately drawn into Lev Grossman’s The Magicians, but then spent most of the remainder of the book wondering why I was reading it. The several parts of the book had a schizophrenic quality which didn’t always seem to have much to do with preceding sections or what came after. Still, it was well-written and I appreciated Grossman’s depiction of the magical world as something other than a place of awe and wonder. His rich, spoiled mages help create something of a Hogwart’s/Narnia mashup of Less than Zero. To escape what they come to view as meaningless existence, these mages travel to the mythical world of Fillory and become involved in a war they clearly don’t understand (seemingly because they have become bored with their lives and have nothing better to do). But just when I thought it would end in this aimless fashion, a really compelling conclusion drew me back in (and beckoned me to the next book). Curse you Lev Grossman! 2.5 Stars rounded up.
3796300089	Ever wanted to read a fantasy series where the protagonists aren't weirdly gifted with suitable talents. where they swear, take drugs and have sex, where they've read Harry Potter and watch Netflix? A fantasy series where the use of magic has understandable consequences, where power really does corrupt, where there are no ridiculously romanticised relationships and key players are non-binary? Welcome to The Magicians.The Fillory series, like the Harry Potter books in our universe is the major book fantasy series that almost every kid has read and loved; few however, as much as young Quentin Coldwater a sufferer of depression and a lover of magic. Unlike most of his peers, now in his late teens / early twenties Quentin is still obsessive about Fillory, so when circumstances appear to give him his wildest dream, a chance to go to college to become a magician, a real magician, he grabs it!It's pretty hard to share anymore of the plot without spilling into spoiler territory, but this book, this absolute stand-out urban fantasy takes the fantasy genre to an adult level; there's no idyllic sugar-coating as seen in so many fantasy books, and it works tremendously well. It has been lauded by the likes of Stephen King, Audrey Niffenegger and George R.R. Martin and deservedly so. I just couldn't give this Five Stars because of a startling lack of (race) diversity and some basic plot holes! Still, with a twisted dark humour running throughout, and an overall plot that you can't really foresee, this is a must-read for urban fantasy lovers. The book is blatantly influenced by the Tales Of Narnia, and it would have been nice for Lev Grossman to explicitly spell that out and/or thank C.S. Lewis. Anyways, I just can't get over how much I enjoyed this read - the final 200 pages are remarkable! 9.5 out of 12 fiery Four Star read.2021 read
1838721572	1 Star: DNF @ 45%Look, I can put up with a lot, but I draw the line at weird artic-wolf furry sex. Throughout the magical training process, for some reason the students undergo challenge after challenge that involve being turned into animals. Our main character (Quentin) and his friend (we rarely see them act friendly and instead just see him pine about how pretty she is and oh-god-the-friend-zone) are turned into wolves who retain their human consciousness but with overwhelming animal instincts. And then they have sex.Why?Outside of how gross it was hearing an audiobook narrate the particulars of wolf-sex, I just don’t understand why this was necessary? It doesn’t seem to be part of any plot outside of violating the main characters and causing drama. I’m just saying, if you write two characters that are interesting enough and make us root for them… you won’t need questionable animal sex to make it interesting?? Even if I could somehow ignore the wolf intercourse, I still wouldn’t have enjoyed this book:Other Cons: Quentin is the most insufferable narrator ever. He’s constantly bemoaning how he’s special and how that makes his life so hard y’all. Also he’s consistently upset that pretty women aren’t just falling in love with himHe’s also upset when he finds out his gay friend (Elliot) is sleeping with someone else?? Quentin isn’t interested in him, he just can’t comprehend why someone who likes men wouldn’t be attracted to him??So boring oh my god. Like the whole point they try and make is that magic is a bunch of hard work and hours and hours of study but god that point gets hammered in. Because literally nothing happens.“He could sense her naked body inside her dress, smell it like a vampire smells blood.” Every woman is somehow a beautiful naked nymph even when clothed. Quentin fantasized about the breasts and clavicles of every woman he came in contact with.There’s an intense lack of world-building? The magic system is never explained. When questioned about how the magic works, the authorities just kind of shrug and say “man it’s inside us… the universe yo,” like some sort of stoner hipster. Which is fine… but what is your government? How is this school maintained?? Who decided anything???The characters never do anything. They just sort of respond to things the people in authority decide for them, and none of it is very interesting? Theres a whole chapter dedicated to the students morphing into geese and just flying around for days and days. It was so boring.Overall:It’s a Harry-Potter school without the magic and fun, in a Narnia-esque land without the magic and fun. All built to appeal to high-school boys who feel so different and so special and rage about the friend-zone.
1994631212	Terrifically horrible, a gonorrheal mess. Overly lauded by megastar writers because, as book critic for TIME, Grossman has been pivotal to an extent for some of their fame & $. Obvi.Alas, one reads it and knows right around page three hundred what a swamp the rest of the voyage will be, as superduper 2D Harry-Hermione-Ron-Luna-& co. avatars (at a discount) find themselves, I fuck with you NOT, in a fish out of water but lame trip to the land of Narnia. A generic one, as well. It really is just those two books sewn together. That's all. Oh, and the main character has a threesome with a boy & a girl. Soooo provocative. The disenchantment happens way earlier than page 300--I lied--but somehow I keep hating myself for spending so much time trying to reach the end of this ill-conceived drivel. Who am I kidding? I was bored after page 121. (What a dud!!)"Book critic"!? This is like that one time Roger Ebert wrote the screenplay for Beyond Valley of the Dolls: IF it had been a mega success that--like many in this literary world--are actually ill won.
1934455942	What would you do if tomorrow your Hogwarts letter came in the mail? What about if your closet became a portal to Narnia?Suddenly there is a sharp line in the sand, dividing your life into two phases: Before Magic and After Magic.The Magicians analyzes this concept with the very deepest, darkest pits of human sin in mind. It is an exploration of realistic responses to unrealistic circumstances. "I got my heart's desire...and there my troubles began."This is not a book for people who prefer their heroes be unambiguously "good". This is not a book you read to your children in hopes that they will derive some higher meaning about morality and friendship. It will devour all of the things you relish in stories like Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia. It will intentionally draw your attention toward your expectations only to shatter them into pieces. For those of you who have seen Cabin in the Woods, this book falls into the same category with that film. This is not "Adult Harry Potter." The magic in this story is not pretty or flamboyant. It is tedious, difficult to grasp. Part of the mastery of this book is how Grossman paralleled his writing style to match that of the magic style. The pace here is slowwwwwwwww, but it's a necessary slowness. The language used has a very cynical quality and I could even see where it may come off as offensive. However, I think it's important to distinguish that the language here is used as a mechanism for characterization and setting a tone, not to reflect the approval of said language by the author.I had a really great time reading this, and I'm excited to keep exploring this idea in last two installments. That being said, this isn't a story that everyone will be able to appreciate. I think that's apparent by just how mixed the reviews are.If you like your humor & your characters made up of morally black and grey fiber, this isn't one to miss out on.This review and other reviews of mine can be found on Book Nest!Buddy read this with my passionate reader friend, Jack!
134853528	Having never heard of Lev Grossman I picked up two of his novels at the thrift store, basing solely on the premises from the back covers - Codex and The Magicians. I decided to read The Magicians first, because Grossman's first two books have both been bombs - Warp vanished without a trace, and Codex received largely negative reviews. But The Magicians was a huge success, so it couldn't be all that bad, right? After my admiration for Peter Straub's Shadowland (which deals with roughly the same topic, but is a far, far superior work) I was all set-up and full of expectations.The Magicians failed to meet any of them. I found this novel to be largely tedious and uninteresting. Here are several reasons why:1)The incredible amount of exposition and absolute lack of detail. Grossman spends page after page TELLING how his hero, Quentin, is learning magic but he never shows it. Part of the incredible allure of fantasy novels is the detailed construction of alternate worlds/universes; there's nothing like that here. Everything is extremely flat and without any flair of ,let's say, Hogwarts; where the reader can see for himself how unique magic really is - in vivid detail.Even the Fillory books - fantasy novels which Quentin is a fan of - are special because Grossman tells us they are special. It's as he distrusted his readers and had to tell them everything - hence the reader plods on, and never cares about the characters and setting whose features and qualities are forced upon him.2) The book is extremely DERIVATIVE. It's as if after the failure of his first two novels Grossman decided to "borrow" the tropes of well known fantasy works (most notably Harry Potter and Narnia) and base his story around other people's accomplishments. Consider:A group of teenagers receive invitations to attend a school of magic, which is housed in a decaying gohtic castle, located just a few hours from a major metropolitan area. The castle is hiddent from public view by powerfull illusion spells and is governed by a childlike, yet powerful white bearded authority figure, who also happens to have a magical map showing where anyone is at any given moment. The process of learning magic turns out to be mostly tedious memorizing incantations and learning proper inflection. The school adapts a British educational system and is full of quirky effects, like disappearing doors.The Fillory is a magical land entered through a clock where "Sons and Daughters of Earth" fight evil to become the royalty. How is it possible to steal so many ideas and not get sued?3) The book is full of filler. Grossman clammed 5 years of magical school (4 for some) and then squeezed adventures after the school (which include travelling into the world of Fillory) on 400 pages...most of which consist of students swearing, having sex, drinking booze and acting like pricks Grossman devised them to be. But everything is touched only on the surface; there's simply no room for anything to develop. Too much is trying to go on on a space too small - and that's why there's so little detail and so much exposition. It's almost as if we were presented with a summary of Quentin's struggle through magical school and his life after it.4)The work is extremely self-indulgent. Grossman comes from an academic family and is a Harvard alumni (where he got a degree in comparative literature), currently holding a job of a reviewer at TIME magazine.This is not a man with an original vision (how many original ideas are there in The Magicians andyway? I counted two) who chose to express it on paper; we are unfortunatelly dealing with the case of a pretentious academic who considers himself above the genre he chose to write in, and who has produced a sour and joyless (and ultimately pointless) exercise in this very genre, designed especially for people just like him. Since Less Than Zero already came out 20 years ago he decided to use storylines and themes from famous fantasy works to sell his product and disguise his lack of originality.Much of Fantasy literature is didactic in nature. Young people can learn how to be a better human being, how to be brave in face of grave danger, to appreciate frienship and learn to be selfless when the situation requires it. There is nothing to learn in The Magicians. While the disilusion in Less Than Zero worked, it doesn't work here because the protagonist is a self-pityng, self-oriented miserable teenager simply because Grossman forced him to be one. Quentin is not happy before enrolling at magical school, he's not happy at the school and he's not happy after the school. He hooks up with the hot girl, but is not happy with her so she sleeps with someone else - then he's even more not happy. Quentin starts out as a selfish bastard, migrates into an even more selfish bastard and ends up after four hundred pages - yeah, you guessed it - as a selfish bastard. Grossman never once allowes Quentin to take his head out of his (Quentin's, not Grossman's) ass to see the wonder he was allowed to experience, but instead forces him to be a smug and miserable selfish asshole to the very end, to illustrate his disilussion with the magical world because he decided that the protagonist will be disilusioned, no matter what he will see there (To his credit: he didn't even try to present much). In Grossman's world (both fantasy and magical) everything is forced upon the reader, including his message - it's rather simple, but the reader is forced to undergo great pains to arrive at the conclusion that is painfully obvious from the very beginning.If you want to be bored and depressed simply because the author bores you and tells you to be depressed, you might get something from The Magicians. If you're looking for "realistic" and "adult" protagonists who are said to posess these qualities simply because they are all selfish, drink alcohol and swear and have sex this might be your thing. If you think that the novel will offer an unique take on the loss of innocence in a magical world, you might be disappointed - our heroes could have been plumbers and hygiene technicians, and Grossman still would ram his point home. (THERE IS NO HOPE, GET IT? NONE, ZERO, NADA, WHY? BECAUSE I SAID SO!)This is a classic case of a pretentious navel-gazer, completely self-indulgent which smacks the reader in the face with its hopelesness and whining again and again and again. This emperor is naked as jay, and offers cliched insights masquerading as deeper truths covered by ideas of other (and better) authors. These insights are explored as superficially as possible, and in an adult way - with lots of booze, sex and swearing - so I sense some BIG PRIZE lurking around the corner, waiting for this very novel. After all, adults give these awards.Kids know better.
1077836713	This is the book for you if you ever wished you could go to Narnia. The biggest hurdle to enjoying this book, however, is its protagonist Quentin, who is a bit of a prat. He's a brilliant student with a fanboy crush on a series of books clearly based on CS Lewis's Narnia; the kid who never got over the fact that he never opened a wardrobe and found a fantasy paradise waiting to crown him king. But he does get his Hogwarts letter, finding himself accepted to a college called Brakebills which trains the gifted few in the arts of magic - but even Brakebills is a disappointment to Quentin because it's not a throne in Narnia (or as it's called here, Fillory). It's ok if you don't like Quentin that much, though, because it's all about arc: this kid starts out not very likeable, and then boy does he grow. And the ride along the way (across three books) is just so much fun. Brakebills and its course of magical studies is a delight; this is Harry Potter with drinking, screwing, and swearing, and Quentin's fellow students are a delight, particularly the shy genius Alice. Alice and Quentin will band together with their own Fellowship (the nerd in-jokes never stop) when they find out that Fillory is real . . . but that it's a lot less PG than the books, and it will claim the life of one of their own. And just possibly make Quentin a man in the process, though you'll have to get to the next book "The Magician King" to find out more.
57137975	A quick and easy way to describe this would be to call it Harry Potter for adults. There's a magic school and a lot more sex and booze than poor old Harry ever had. But that doesn't do it justice because this was an extremely original and unique twist on the notion of what it would be like to actually live in a world where magic and fantasy realms exist.Quentin Coldwater is a bored teenager getting ready to apply for college but is already seriously disillusioned with his life and wishes things were more like his favorite fantasy novels set in a land called Fillory, which is essentially the author's stand-in for Narnia. However, Quentin quickly learns that he's got magical talent, and he's suddenly attending a training academy called Brakebills. Quentin is the kind of guy who after finding out he won a huge lottery would instantly start bitching about how bad the taxes will be. Even though he's always longed for a world closer to his Filory novels, he never sees the adventure he's living by learning magic and all the things that go into his training. Learning magic and even falling in love don't make him happy, and he holds onto the childish idea that there's some 'next place' that will finally make him complete.To make matters worse, once he and his friends graduate, they learn that there's no real need for magic since there are no big magical threats so they use their talents to live fat and easy while partying too much and trying to entertain themselves. Until an old classmate appears with the news that Filory is real.There's three big things at work in this book. The idea that magic is real, and the author put a great deal of effort into developing the idea of magic in the real world with specific rules. The second is that the idea of journeying to a magical land on some kind of quest would be a fun adventure is actually pretty naive when you consider how actually bloody and insane the kind of things described would be. (Think about what it would REALLY be like to have some kind of half-human/half-beast run at you with a sword.) The third (and most interesting) is that a young man with a world of possibilities in front of him would find himself disappointed with life because it isn't like an adventure story and his stubborn refusal to realize that life will never be like a fantasy novel even if he eventually makes it to an actual fantasy world.Fast-paced, funny, sometimes tragic and always entertaining, this was a book that I really enjoyed for it's offbeat way of looking at magic and fantasy stories.
1357394942	I can honestly say that I haven't read a book with characters this self-involved, self-aggrandizing, and self-important in, well, ever. This book and all of its contents were wholly insufferable. Not only was it a blatant rip off of other notable books, but it was completely shameless in its theft. I hated everything about this book.I read another review where the reviewer says the following: Oh, wonderful -- another dour academe writes another fussy, joyless genre exercise, designed specifically for MFA circle-jerks who consider themselves 'above' such silly frippery. Yeah, that's exactly what the world needed.I couldn't agree more. When this book was recommended to me by one of my friends, I immediately requested the audiobook from my local library. That was about 4 months ago. When it was my turn to have at it, I couldn't wait to read a book that lived up to the hype from the notable authors quoted on the cover. What I wasn't expecting was such an exercise in how to be a twat. It is like each character evolved out of some prep school kid's fantasy world. And not just any prep school kid, the most spoiled, obnoxious, pretentious kid in the world. The type of kid that I would never want to talk to at a party. The assholes of society. Quentin was completely unredeemable, IMO. He thinks he is the only person who is suffering the pains of being wealthy, extremely smart, and with every privilege in the world. The girl he likes doesn't like him back! He never got to interview for Princeton! His parents are cretins who bore him to tears! He isn't the best at everything, just close! What a terrible life he leads. We should all pity him. I was hoping that Quentin made a turn around during the book, but he DOESN'T. In fact, each character in the book is more irritating and horrible than the last. They all feed off of each other and it got to be almost suffocating. The arrogance... it choked me. Aside from the truly loathsome characters, the book is just not written well. Let's ignore the fact that this book "borrows" heavily from others in its genre (but honestly, how can we ignore that????), but it completely lacks in atmosphere. Quentin gets to the school and there are VERY few details from there. Where are the descriptions of the classes, other than to complain about the reading in 1,000 languages? What's the point of everything? Why is nothing explained? There is just boring scene after boring scene with lots of time jumps and prose that is mind-numbingly showy.However, I think the worst crime of all was that this book was not fun to read. At all. It was a magic book with no magic, a book about growing up with no growth, and a book about fantasy with no imagination. That's it, I'm out. DNF at 65%.
465108809	2.5 stars This isn't to say I don't think this is a good book. I think it's very clever. It messes with your expectations, about everything, and because of that there were many parts I didn't actively enjoy. (I would say that I passively enjoyed it... Is that a thing?) Because of that it gets a lower rating. I do feel that this is the kind of book that can't be rated individually and instead the series should be reviewed as a whole. I will continue with this series and I'm looking forward to it.I have a full review coming on Monday on my channel!
67153566	If you write enough book reviews, eventually you start sounding like everyone you never wanted to be. Today, I'll be the annoying guy who brags about how he saw everything coming. That's right, I found this book utterly predictable from start to finish. Even the Arctic fox sex scene.The Magicians is a very postmodern type of fantasy, deconstructing as it does the Narnian-style childhood fantasy of saving the world. It's one of those curiously self-aware books that nevertheless stays firmly on the other side of the fourth wall. It is meta. And with this comes a sort of candour necessarily absent from actual epic fantasy. This xkcd comic communicates the gist of The Magicians' theme if you're not yet inclined to read the entire book.As far as this commentary on fantasy goes, The Magicians works. This is something that most people recognize, if only subconsciously. It may sound heroic to fantasize about killing monsters and enemies with a sword and magical spell. Yet in reality, killing, as war movies are so eager to drive home, is rarely glamorous. The Magicians is not "magic realism" so much as "magic hyperrealism." There's more here than magic, though. Quentin finds himself a licensed magician at 21, set adrift in the world to make his own way and find a life worth living. As a university student, I'm acquainted with the notion that I'll put my five years into schooling, graduate, get a job, and that's my life. I'm also aware that, in all likelihood, it won't work out so smoothly and discretely. Instead, I'm going to have to make plenty of choices, plenty of compromises, and plenty of mistakes; if I persevere, I might find happiness. Quentin's problem is the paradoxical nature of being a magician: so much power, yet so little to do with the power. It's mirrored in the psychological fragility conferred upon any child who saves the world: what do you do if you've hit the epitome of your existence by 20?There is one respect, however, in which I think Grossman drops the ball. He does a fine job analyzing fantasy itself, but he fails to go further and identify anything in contemporary society that drives our desire for escapist-yet-illogical worlds. He skirts close to this topic on numerous occasions but never embraces it. In fact, the parts of The Magicians grounded in reality are, upon closer inspection, hazy.Quentin's parents are little more than abstractions. I think they have only three lines of dialogue in the entire text. Otherwise, we learn about them only from what the limited third person narrator says Quentin thinks about them. Such paltry characterization irked me while reading the book and continues to irk me, and it's a perfect example of how Grossman neglects the "real world" portion of The Magicians even when it may be the most important part. We're supposed to get the idea that Quentin feels unchallenged in school, neglected or ignored by his parents, and generally unhappy—but we only know this because we're told; Grossman never really shows us what's so boring about Quentin's life.What I desire, and what The Magicians fails to provide, is a look at the social origin of the individual's obsession with escapist fantasy. It's not enough to simply start with the loner, imaginative archetype we see in Quentin and go from there; that's begging the question. After all, this entire book is about not taking fantasy worlds at face value, but it's asking us to take the origins of the desire for those worlds at face value.There's also quite a few loose ends here. Far be it from me to insist that a book tediously explain every plot point! Yet I'm not satisfied with Julia's appearances—she just happens to have her life sent out of control by being rejected from Brakebills? Why? What exactly does she hope to gain by confronting Quentin? Most importantly, how did she end up finding Janet, Eliot, and Josh? Likewise, Dean Fogg's relationship with the world of Fillory is never made clear. Most of the magical community perceives Fillory as just another fictitious world. Yet Fogg recognizes the "woman with the braids," as Quentin describes her, who is inextricably connected to the Fillory tale.When the loose ends do get resolved, Grossman tends to tie them up in a neat way. As I intimated at the beginning of the review, this leads to a certain amount of predictability: the identity of Emma Greenstreet's lovers, the identity of the woman with the braids, the fate of Quentin and Alice's relationship, etc. There are times when a book is so well constructed that its predictability doesn't matter; merely watching the events fall into place is a beautiful thing. The Magicians is not so carefully constructed, unfortunately; I would have preferred to be surprised.For a book that is both fantasy and about fantasy, it's that lack of literary magic that prevents me from embracing The Magicians as a great work. It's competent, even interesting, but many of the seams still show. It's a shame, too, because Grossman has a flair for fun dialogue and a knack for well-placed expletives. Above all, what's needed is better characterization. Good characters are the glue that binds together the plot and the meta-fictional commentary. Unlike Douglas Coupland, Lev Grossman doesn't manage to create a cast of characters who are believable, albeit not probable. With The Magicians, there's too much smoke and not enough mirrors.My reviews of The Magicians series:The Magician King →
807874806	A narrative in two parts- two books in one, really, with the same characters.The first section of this book is the attention-grabbing, "if Harry Potter were mixed with" blurb-causing, teenage magic school creation that you've heard about. The comparisons are accurate enough, and I'm not going to try to get creative here and pretend that its actually about something else to be original in my review. The author clearly means for us to see the parallel. The Harry Potter series introduced a deserving orphan, and guided him, Dickensian-like, through endless halls of wonders that revealed the awe-striking amazingness of magic and a whole new world that could redeem him from his miserable, neglected Please Sir I Want Some More life. We took many books worth to get through Harry's time at school, suitably following him through his journey as he became a man. But as dark as it got, we knew that we were fighting Good vs. Evil, with Heroes and Heroines and young love, etc. In contrast, Grossman introduces a narrative that couldn't be more disdainful of these things. The main character, Quentin, goes from being a disgruntled teenage Muggle- without much reason to be disgruntled, btw-who is about to graduate high school to a graduate of Hogwarts-the-College in less than half of one book. The book spends as much time telling us about the teenage main characters' rampant alcoholism, sexuality, and random college lore as it does about their time in class, which, after the first year, is talked about only in the vaguest of ways. The wonder and beauty of magical life couldn't be less the point. This seems to be because Grossman’a goal is to line up each element of Harry Potter that annoys him and then deal with it and show why his way is way less lame, man, and then lose interest in it. There are many parts that essentially read like a veritable, "And another thing....!" sort of rant, the sort that is amusing or intriguing at first, but gets boring when the speaker, however, intelligent, is about twenty minutes in and still going strong. About the only commonality is that he is still interested in magic, but it is clear that he feels that Harry Potter chose the precious, childish kind, in preference to the "hardcore," "real shit" that it should have focused on.This was fine enough I suppose- but I was actually interested much more the other subterranean thing that I noticed in this first half: it acts as a simultaneous indictment of and fetishization of the high-stakes standardized testing, tracking, AP classes and cutthroat college-admissions environment of our educational system. The narrator goes through one test and experience after another that essentially tells the audience, over and over again, how exceptionally bright he is- all of this proven through very traditionally academic methods like tests, advanced placement courses, skipping a year, placing into an exceptionally difficult to get into major, confounding supposedly smart authority figures with your intelligence and winning their approval.It really reduced the whole idea of even a magical education to a series of status symbols to accumulate, more exclusive clubs to join, an endless line of authority figures telling you how Special you are, more and more special than the others before you, in smaller and smaller groups as the weak are weeded out and shown to be inferior. I really think that this was unconscious on the part of the author, though. Both the fetishization and the indictment. I think that he was really just trying to establish how Special his Special Snowflake was, so we would care to keep following his adventures, since there wasn't much of a personality to get interested in otherwise (more on that later). It was really fascinating me how much the author did seem to buy into this. Here is a man who is amazingly scornful of other traditional systems of fantasy value set up here, but he seemed to believe, innocently, almost naively, in how awesome each standardized test and year skipped in school made his character. It seemed that it didn't even matter how much of an asshole he was, because of how smart he told us he was, over and over again. So another opposition to Harry Potter is that this is about the idea that education is about beating tests, rather than becoming a better person or growing personally (which is perhaps closer to reality- but Grossman doesn’t try to knock it down). Our author doesn't have time for that shit- his characters have fox-sex to have, after all. If I had the head space, I'd write an essay about the different educational values of the books and the wider implications for our society, but I suspect I would be the only one who cared to read it.The second half of the book is an extended 'fuck you' to anyone who was disappointed with the first part of the book. In this half of the book, the parallel is Narnia rather than Harry Potter. And instead of tearing down the idea of magic itself and enjoyment in magical systems, now it is time to tear down the other big sacred cow of the fantasy genre: the Quest.I thought that this part of the novel was much messier and much cruder. I thought that there was one straightforward point that he wanted to make, and he told it to me, several times, straight out. "Do not wish to live in your childhood fantasies! They are never how they seemed to you at the time!" I actually think that most fantasy epics make this point at some part of their narrative, but Grossman appears to think that he is being original with the idea. There was some sort of twisted mentality here- I didn't get the purpose. Like he wanted to vengefully slap down adult enjoyment of fantasy stories and then assert that there was nothing wrong with magic stories, but we were just reading the wrong ones- the ones without sex and drugs and beautiful people striking infinitely cool poses. I mean, I get that the Lewis books were unattractively, to some, bathed in Christian values and it can be annoying to have spirituality shoved in your face (through the character of Richard it is clear that Grossman finds it so), and I get that things were a bit whitewashed there. But again... what is your point here? Is this some vaguely GRRM inspired thing about being gritty and killing off main characters- in which case you're about ten years too late, buddy- or are you making some greater point about preachy morality and how, well, it just bothers you and you should all shut up now so we can get back to brooding into the middle distance some more- it looks better on camera. His writing just feels really scornful and vicious about the genre in a way that made me feel vaguely uncomfortable, like someone working out personal issues under the cover of characters and not bothering to hide it very well. He got some nerd tones and experiences very accurate, which makes me wonder whether there's some self-hate going on here and our narrator is an author stand-in. I have nothing but speculation, hunches, and many years in nerd culture myself to back that up, but that's one possible read I got off of it.Speaking of which... You should know going into this that there are really very few people here who you are likely to get emotionally attached to. The ones you sense any sympathy for on the part of the author- well, I assure you that they are only there for the purposes of increasing our narrator's Unique quotient and giving him an emotional card to play. I will say that I think that Quentin's personality is pretty well drawn. I had the sort of visceral repulsion from him, growing slowly over the course of the book, that I only get from characters that remind me of life-sucking people and things I have met in real life. I will give that to Grossman, and hope that it was a character choice and not an editorial position. I will say that it is difficult to tell, given that the voice of the novel belongs mostly to Quentin- only one character tries to knock any sense into his narcissistic, self-pitying, selfish, entitled ass and she gives the most sympathetic reading possible of the reasons for his behavior while he does it. (view spoiler)[ Oh man, that part where he waited like half a year to even REMEMBER to tell the Dean of his school to help his former high school crush, the one he WANTED to ask him for help- before she fucked him, obviously- who had essentially gone stark raving insane and was likely cutting herself, essentially because he couldn't be bothered to remember now that he was fucking his much smarter, more talented girlfriend...that one just blew my mind, you guys. (hide spoiler)]. I think that I'm actually supposed to feel bad for him in some obscure way, even if I hate his behavior. His emotional landscape is just so barren though. I end up with very little evidence that he feels deeply (except where it is convenient to him to do so or makes him feel good to do so- the times where he decides he loves Alice again and is proud of her when she does something awesome were particularly disgusting- as if she needed to constantly prove herself amazing to continue to earn his love). His “character growth," feels like a medieval King wearing a hair shirt outside his rich clothing in front of a gathered crowd and it lasts approximately as long as it takes for his friends to come up with something cool enough to interest our hero. I thought some people might want to know that before tackling this one.So why, based on everything I've said here, am I giving it three stars? Well, first of all, I was interested in it enough to whip through it in one day, in about three intense reading sessions. I thought that some of Grossman's concepts and comments about a world with magic were interesting. I liked his idea of a world where there is magic, but no Quests, nothing that would encourage people with immense power to put aside that power and learn about the Greater Good. Asking what would happen to such people is an interesting question. I liked his all-too-brief commentary about people who were sad being drawn to magic- which makes sense and has real-world parallels. I also liked reading a story where someone really tried to put some pathos into that after-college there-is-no-structure-and-no-walls-or-rules-to-hold-you thing. I think it especially worked with a group of people who thrived inside the system- conventionally smart test-takers who knew the rules to succeed and conquered most of them. Weeping when there are no more worlds to conquer makes sense. Finally, there are some characters who had some moments that felt true or amusing. Alice, mostly. Eliot, once or twice. Every other attempt at characterization else felt like a caricature of something he had read elsewhere.But I am unsure if I would read the next book- what else could Grossman have to offer me? Perhaps a take down of Tolkien-verse? There were already some side-eye swipes and elf-fucking jokes sprinkled through here. I'm sure there's plenty more where that came from.
2051828831	*** 3.44 ***A buddy read with my friends In the Wednesday UF group @ BB&B! Because we obviously want to depress ourselves this month... Every ambition he'd ever had in his life had been realized the day he was admitted to Brakebills, and he was struggling to formulate a new one with any kind of practical specificity.Remember when you wished you could belong to the groups of those select few, who different generations of us have encountered in books from different authors but with the same amount of hope and wistfulness? Those lucky bastards who in the worst and scariest moments of their lives either discovered a magic wardrobe to a fantasy world, or a giant came on their birthday to take them away to a magical school for sorcery, or just by crossing a bridge over a stream entered a whole another fantastic world? I personally remember praying every morning and every night that Marry Poppins would come to our house and become our governess... I thought if I gave it my all, she must hear my need and will appear with the western winds ( I think it was the Western winds, although it could be Easter, don't remember anymore... ). This book is all about Wish Fulfillment and what follows.... A cautionary tale of be careful what you wish for and how you take advantage of what you find! Not for children and not for those who are looking for an uplifting read!!!Well, would it be Merry Poppins, or Narnia, or Harry Potter, they all represent the wishes of young people for something more, for finding that special place for themselves, full of magic, where they find their best selves and come out of the experience a bit battered but wise and mature and full of ability to deal with everything that greats them in Real Life... I can even acknowledge, that the premise for the Magicians has something in common with all of those classic tales:"..."I think you're magicians because you're unhappy. A magician is strong because he feels pain. He feels the difference between what the world is and what he would make of it. Or what did you think that stuff in your chest was? A magician is strong because he hurts more than others. His wound is his strength. Most people carry that pain around inside them their whole lives, until they kill the pain by other means, or until it kills them. But you, my friends, you found another way: a way to use the pain. To burn it as fuel, for light and warmth. You have learned to break the world that has tried to break you.”..."The difference lays in the fact that usually, once the pain has awakened all that magic in the people with the pain, they start a path of transcending that pain, of finding ways to discover joy, even if the road to it is difficult. Usually there are sparks of hope and wonder in the mix of hard life lessons and difficult work. Usually, at the end of the story you come out with the feeling of joy for being alive and being able to see all the wonder in the everyday struggle, as well as in the most mundane of surroundings. Usually, I personally cannot wait to jump into the book that follows... Usually, but not so much with this book..."...“Most people are blind to magic. They move through a blank and empty world. They’re bored with their lives, and there’s nothing they can do about it. They’re eaten alive by longing, and they’re dead before they die.”..."Well, being one of those people who have always longed for that worlds' version of Narnia, Quentin Coldwater of Brooklyn, NY gets what he has always wished for. He goes to Magic college, Brakebills, and later on to Fillory, a magical land he spend his childhood reading and dreaming about. The book is not about what happens, but how he gets there and what he derives from the experiences after. The plot is secondary to the character analysis and the slow and steady destruction of childhood dreams by infusion of mega-doses of reality and the bored, privileged, nihilistic state of a group of young people who are always looking for something beyond their reach... They are all disillusioned and miserable for no particular reason, despite having lives most of us would do anything to have... Then they get it and screw it all up... I got the heavy vibes of Prozac Nation and Trainspotters, and that was just for starters... "...“All of it just confirmed his belief that his real life, the life he should be living, had been mislaid through some clerical error by the cosmic bureaucracy. This couldn't be it. It had been diverted somewhere else, to somebody else, and he'd been issued this shitty substitute faux life instead.”..."Don't get me wrong. The book was perfectly written for what it was trying to achieve. The prose was great, the points the author was trying to make were bludgeoned into our heads time and again. The anger toward the asshole that Quentin became was raw and simmering after the first part of the book. I was even angry with myself for liking him in the beginning... The complete selfish disregard for anything and anyone besides his needs of the moment made me want to scream with frustration and every time we were prevented from getting a happy break, I wanted to say "forget it" and walk away. However, there is something very compelling in seeing this all to realistic fantasy unfold and I know I will read the rest of the series, because I have to know where the author takes his "heroes" and us with them... My rating has little to do with the quality of writing or the deliberate way the author turns our childhood wishes on their heads. It has to do with the fact that I left the book feeling depressed and not in a good way... It reminded me to much of people I had known and the feelings that came with them were not welcome. I understand the writing of these type of books, I just wonder what do we truly gain from them... Is it a mirror for our RL, or is it the most pessimistic way we could look upon ourselves and create monsters where there needn't be any? Either way, this is one of those books I will remember for sure, but with discomfort, and hope the next two books give us something to look forward to! "...“Wasn't there a spell for making yourself happy? Somebody must have invented one. How could he have missed it? Why didn't they teach it? Was it in the library, a flying book fluttering just out of reach, beating its wings against some high window?..."
2029377234	Sale Alert: Kindle Deal 16May20$1.99 I didn't love it but you might.2.5 This had so much potential Stars I feel like I went around and through the rabbit hole in this book. There are parts that I loved, there are parts that I hated and there are characters that I only tolerated. But that is the problem, there isn’t one bright and shiny person that I want to root for because all of the characters are raging alcoholic, entitled, miserable little wretches. They are all so unhappy and so full of angst that you wonder what it is about having magic that makes you miserable.There was one character that maybe stood a chance to be the better person but I’m pretty sure that they are gone from the rest of the series. It makes it really hard for me to continue since there isn’t really anyone that I care about. AND I SHOULD.This is like throwing something akin to Narnia and Harry Potter together and so I should be awesome. Parts of it were. But then they throw in some ridiculous angst, a ton of drinking and drugs and I just can’t find a way to connect to any of the characters.╰⊰✿ Things I Loved ✿⊱╮ღ - The test to get into the magical school. It was fantastic, creative and original. “He was asked to draw a rabbit that wouldn’t keep still as he drew it—as soon as it had paws it scratched itself luxuriously and then went hopping off around the page, nibbling at the other questions, so that he had to chase it with the pencil to finish filling in the fur. He wound up pacifying it with some hastily sketched radishes and then drawing a fence around it to keep it in line.” ღ - I loved the Neitherlands. It is like a world between worlds where time really doesn’t exist and if you have a key you could go pretty much anywhere.ღ - Fillory was also absolutely fantastic. It seems very much like Narnia in many ways with the talking animals and the magical lands and such. Still it seemed like a very cool land and why wouldn’t any kid want to go there.ღ - I also enjoyed a lot of the time at the magical school. The classes were a little vague after the first few were explained but the idea of a magical college and the things they studied was really interesting. Along with their final graduation gift.ღ - Alice for the most part was the only character I really connected with besides Penny who was there for a bit and then gone for most of the book. Alice though for the most part is shy but pretty well rounded as a person. She works extremely hard most of the time and while she does fall into the drinking and partying scene a few times for the most part it never seemed to consume her. She even seems like a pretty solid and good person whereas the rest of the crew might have been kind to each other but not to anyone else.ღ - Like I said most of his stuff was off page. But it was nice to see that while some of the other characters were just screwing around he was actually working towards something. I loved that he was the one that found by accident what Quentin was looking for all of his life. I started to like the book a lot more when he showed back up in the story. He pushed the plot forward and it needed a good shove at that point.╰⊰✿ Things That Bothered Me ✿⊱╮☠ - All of the other characters. Quentin is the main character and the book is from his PoV. While he is semi likable at times he is really whiny for the most part and pretty depressed. He keeps thinking that something is going to be just around the corner to make him happy and then he is surprised when it never shows up. I struggled a lot with parts of this book because I was stuck in his head and he is miserable. “For just one second, look at your life and see how perfect it is. Stop looking for the next secret door that is going to lead you to your real life. Stop waiting. This is it: there's nothing else. It's here, and you'd better decide to enjoy it or you're going to be miserable wherever you go, for the rest of your life, forever.” Here is a guy who gets into a magical school and he totally forgets about his parents (which was actually understandable) and his best friends. I really hated that the two people in the world that he was closest with and spent years in school with, he just totally forgot. I was even more upset when Julia asked for his help and while yes he finally made good on his promise to her it seemed like he waited months to do it. ☠ - Elliot and Janet, I’m not really sure where to start. They are pretty horrible as humans and the fact that they too have magic and are completely miserable just drinking and screwing just about anything with two legs seems pointless. It is as if magic makes you a terrible person. A few times they had moments where they looked out for each other but for the most part they only cared about themselves. “She tortured everybody around her, but only because she was more tortured than anyone.” ☠ - The general tone of the book is a bit on the depressing side. It really is sad that no one seems the least bit happy and pretty much they are just killing time waiting for something…anything to happen.╰⊰✿ Overall: ✿⊱╮I wouldn’t say that this is a bad book. If I was in the right mindset I could get past a lot of the things that really bothered me in this. But I struggled to connect to a bunch of kids who could have had everything but chose to just drink and meander their lives away. I really wish there was a little more direction in the story. Sure there is a Beast and he shows up for half a chapter but then we don’t see him again until the very end of the book. It just seemed a bit disjointed. I’m not sure if I’ll continue the series since I don’t really like the characters and I’m the kind of person that needs a character that I like to root for.
99635164	it is clear that the author is trying for Harry Potter-meets-Narnia through the lens of Bret Easton Ellis. nice try! but all the carefully placed bits of minor note ennui and teenage boredom cannot hide the fact that the author actually has a lot invested in writing pure, thrilling fantasy with a healthy dose of phantasmagoria. i will take the moments of awe over the moments of bored disdain any day... and i think the author secretly agrees. Grossman's description of a transformative flight (heh), the Beast's first entrance, a climactic battle in an underworld, and the final bizarre appearances of the narrator & friends are the best parts in this novel. in the future i hope he replaces Less than Zero with The Golden Compass as his touchstone.
136167594	I feel like this book has too many tropes and cliche of all the mainstream fantasy books all wrapped up in one. I hope maybe the sequel will be better. Overall, the book was not worth the time to read it. First, the author comes from this high New York mind set that only New Yorkers are better than others, even better, add both Harvard and Yale into the mix. (one of the reason the New York Times and the media love this book) To me what I hate most about this book is that he had to copy from Harry Potter and the Chronicles of Narina mixed with Ender's Game, and does it at a mediocre level at the best. I feel like the world was not immersive world. The character of Quentin feels like dry, dull, and emo as he is willing to go alone with everything without questioning anything. Overall I think he was trying to write something fantasy that was more literary for adults based on the main stream fantasy, and his own background. Anybody who likes good epic fantasy would hate this book. So basically stay away from this book, run away from it, but it is a good book for discussion.
113855438	People love describing one thing as the adult version of another thing. For example, Foucault's Pendulum is like The Da Vinci Code for adults. The allure of this kind of comparison is at least threefold: 1) it offers a simple way to draw people in, by playing on their affection for another work; 2) it leverages against the desire to take in a more mature version of something they already like; and 3) it derides the value of the other, presumably-enjoyed work. People love to dismiss especially popular works as being childish or inane. (One would think we would overcome that need in junior high, but generally speaking, we do not.)In any case, I like many others am tempted to describe Lev Grossman's The Magicians as Harry Potter for adults. Yet do so without the condescension. In many ways the comparison really is apt. For one, there's plenty of magic and plenty of gratuitous nudity. There's a school for witchcraft and wizardry, but its a college. The students lounge around in their free time doing off-handed magics and getting colossally drunk. So, Harry Potter but for adults?Sort of, I guess. But Grossman's novel is really quite a bit more.Through a thoroughly secular treatment of the Narnian-style of fantasy worlds, Grossman unveils a story that's less about fantasy and wonder and exploring the hidden worlds that hide beneath our noses and more about the growth of human character and the obstacles that threaten to halt that growth entirely. The Magicians is, essentially, an amusingly framed bildungsroman, exploring the life and maturation of Quentin Coldwater, a young man who has just discovered that magic is as real as DNA and has been enrolled in a private college devoted to its study. For Quentin, this is an especially notable discovery, as he had always suspected magic was indeed real. As a child, he had read and absorbed the Fillory novels, Grossman's fictional answer to Lewis' Narnia. In The Magicians, the Fillory novels were a series of five books written in the twenties that charted the exploratory paths of the Chatwin children, as they flit between our world and Fillory in similar fashion to how Lewis has the Pevensies occasionally visit Narnia. Yet for Quentin, they set a seed in his mind and even at age seventeen and considering which Ivy League school to attend, he's still checking the backs of cabinets for passages into lands beyond reason.As one may presume when confronted by a character who desperately seeks a world of fantasy, Quentin is thoroughly unhappy. Though set with a future that by all conventional wisdom should be regarded as stellar, Quentin is discouraged by how desaturated the world is to his eyes. There is no joy in his accomplishments, in his talents, or in his future at Yale or Harvard or whichever school of excellence he's destined to attend. There are only two things he wants: a romance with his friend Julie and Fillory. Both are fantasies (Julie is currently with his best friend James and Fillory is the invention of a children's adventure novel) and so we get a taste immediately for Quentin's brand of dissatisfaction. At heart, The Magicians is a reflection on how we deal with depression. And the way we, as a culture (an American culture at any rate), deal with depression is to indulge in the fantasy that depression is not the correct way to understand the world. Grossman grants this and embraces it by having Quentin give up depression for Fantasy (for so long as it holds). The book struggles admirably with the reasonableness of being bored or disgusted by the world.In that sense, yes, The Magicians really is kind of like Harry Potter for adults—if only because children rarely have the context by which to understand Quentin's struggles.
6271380642	In The Magicians by Lev Grossman, gloomy, disillusioned Quentin Coldwater is transported to a vaguely British magic school in Upstate New York called Brakebills. Magic is a dry, complicated art, relying on minute details from the position of the moon to the contortion of the hands. In other words, it’s utterly tedious, nothing like the wondrous wish-fulfillment magic of the stories Quentin has read. In this story, no fantastical escape can pull Quentin from the grip of his own self-inflicted misery.The Magicians would be significantly better if it allowed itself to stop being jaded on occasion. It fails at most points to be a compelling story because it reads like it exists to prove a point, almost like satire, not like something meant to be loved and cherished by a reader. There’s little to hold onto emotionally in this book. The friendships are shallow and dysfunctional, the magic dry, distant, and fatigued. To an extent, this is the intention, as The Magicians is about a person who can’t find wonder in anything, even the most wonderful things—but a story with all lows and no highs doesn’t encourage attachment. The Magicians is good when it focuses on original material and not just subversion. Subverting tropes at every turn is not original; it’s still derivative, and it risks becoming a gimmick. Even worse, it makes a tiring and uninspired story. The Magicians is a tongue-in-cheek, gritty foil for the whimsical, fantastic magic schools we all know and love. However, it doesn’t feel like adult fantasy as intended, but “adultified” fantasy. It has drinking and drugs and excessive self-importance and philosophizing, but it doesn’t have meaningful relationships, character development, or layers of complexity.It’s difficult to empathize with these characters, these very pretentious teenagers who are passively miserable and horrible to each other, who’ve unlocked the magic of the universe but never for a minute dream of doing anything greater with it. The characters are witty but superficial, stereotypical, and unchanging. In this case, the pitfall of making commentary by means of subversion is that the book fails to separate itself from the characters’ affectedness. At some point, it ceases to be satirical, succumbing to the pull of Quentin’s pseudo-profundity, and thus becomes insufferable.Just as the characters don’t come across as real, neither does Brakebills. To me, the school feels like the set of a play, a front attempting to convince the viewer that a more complete world exists behind it, when it’s apparent that it hides only a curtain. A school is a place where characters grow up, make friends, fight, and change as people. Even though Quentin spends years at Brakebills, I don’t get the feeling that this changes him, or that he’s made any genuine connections.After all these years, Quentin only learns enough about himself to realize that he’s the one making himself miserable, but his realizations never go deeper than that. His character gives the impression of existing to make this one point. Ultimately, this is a theme that doesn’t go anywhere. It’s quite obvious from the start that Quentin refuses to be optimistic, so when he’s called out for his attitude but never develops as a character, the whole book feels like a meandering ramble in Quentin’s psyche that doesn’t go beyond surface-level or affect anything about him. Quentin ends up in the same place as he was at the beginning, which is supremely unsatisfying.However, some parts of this book are genuinely good. Like many other readers, I enjoyed the Antarctica adventure, and any scene with Alice was great. The concept of this novel is a clever idea. The progression of the plot is just escapism at increasingly extreme levels for Quentin. He tries to convince himself that he’ll finally be happy once another one of his wishes is fulfilled. Unsurprisingly, this doesn’t happen. The Magicians gets especially interesting in the final quarter, when threads from the beginning start to connect. When the writing is good, it’s clever and witty and easy to read. With more sincere and consistent storytelling, more earnest emotion paired with this cheeky writing style, The Magicians by Lev Grossman could be stellar. Unfortunately, it never quite reaches that level.
1025020825	★★☆☆☆I’ve known of this series for a while now, but my friends’ ratings were so divided that I've put it off. Recently however, I stumbled upon its fairly intriguing TV pilot, so I finally decided to delve in. Almost every, single, damn review labels this an adult version of Harry Potter meets Narnia. I get that, although to be fair, I believe the only elements this has in common with either of those is a school for magic and doorway to a fantasy world filled with mythical creatures. Our story begins with Quentin Coldwater, a high school senior, on his way to a routine college interview, which turns out to be anything but, when the interviewer winds up dead. As he’s leaving the scene, after giving his statement to the police, one of the paramedics hands him an envelope. Amazingly, it appears to contain the manuscript for a previously unknown Narnia Fillory book six, a magic series he loved as kid. He's looking it over when, all of a sudden, the wind snatches one of the pages from his grasp. Quentin chases it across the street, down an alley, and through some underbrush. Before he knows it he’s left the dreary, drizzly winter day, and stepped right into a sunny summer afternoon.This of course is your classic setup, and where he’s wound up is Hogwarts Brakebills, a school for the magically inclined. He secretly always suspected that there was more to life than his dull boring existence. He was a special snowflake who never quite fit in with the rest of his classmates, and longed to escape to a place like Fillory. Well, this isn’t exactly that, but holy shit, magic is real?! This is amazing, now his true life’s adventure can finally begin! So why is it that he still feels so down? Could it be that no matter where you go you’re still stuck in your own skin? Even at a place like Brakebills there’s no magic pill to change your personality from that depressed, bitter, self-loathing asshole that you’ve always been. And magic is a hell of a lot of work, “Even the simplest spell had to be modified and tweaked and inflected to agree with the time of day, the phase of the moon, the intention and purpose and precise circumstances of its casting, and a hundred other factors, all of which were tabulated in volumes of tables and charts.” Therein lies part the problem I had with the story. Since we’re stuck following Quentin, so much of it is just depressing and boring, and a real chore to wade through at times. I realize that making everything so maddeningly difficult and frustrating may have been Grossman's attempt to ground the story in the real world, but I don’t think most people read magical stories for those realistic touches. They read to escape into a land of pure fantasy, we long for a magical adventure filled with awe and wonder. Sadly, much of that is sorely lacking. In fact, there’s very little compelling material during their entire time at Brakebills. Grossman glosses over the entire four years in a fraction of the story. Perhaps in an effort to avoid some of those Harry Potter comparisons, but all of that time jumping did not work for me at all.Back in the real world, Quentin is more lost than ever. He’s glimpsed behind the curtain, learned all these amazing new skills, yet they’re of little use out here. Most magicians simply kick back in some cushy job, and live a pampered lifestyle. “No one would come right out and say it, but the worldwide magical ecology was suffering from a serious imbalance: too many magicians, not enough monsters.” In the final act, Quentin finally embarks on that adventure his soul has craved. And I’ll be damned if he still feels nothing at all. “What was he missing? Or was it him? If he wasn’t happy even here, even now, did the flaw lie in him? As soon as he seized happiness it dispersed and reappeared somewhere else.” Yes, Quentin, I’m afraid the flaw lies in you. While I appreciated the fact that you weren’t a Gary Stu, and I enjoyed your final adventure, it wasn’t nearly enough to make up for the depressing slog I had to wade through to get to that pay off.
3998438558	This book started out so good!! A Harry Potter type "going to magic school" instead of university - so older protagonists. I liked the world and the characters - fun seeing the different methods of magic, etc... but then....there was no point (no goal for the main protagonist), no antagonist (at least HP had Voldemort), nothing after they graduated (view spoiler)[except drink, do drugs, and sleep around (hide spoiler)] It didn't keep my interest and I stopped reading about 65% of the way.Am I allowed to count this as one of my books for my 50 book goal? I slogged through it for days before giving up - I feel like I should get credit. ;) I will go with the majority of comments - Yes? or No? :)
1897227534	It had its moments but at times felt rushed and not fully fleshed out. Some of the loose ends were tied together nicely with interesting twists and others felt like they were thrown in at the end or completely forgotten. Also there were times where the sex/sexual tension was drawn out for pages while cool details of magic were glossed over in a sentence or two. All in all an entertaining book I will finish the series and probably watch the show.
5500797413	اگه یه روزی برای کسی سوال پیش اومد که چی میشه داستان نارنیا و هری پاتر با هم مخلوط بشن و چاشنی بزرگسال بهشون اضافه بشه، باید بگم این کتاب یکی از گزینه های روی میزه.احتمالا نویسنده موقع نوشتن کتاب با خودش گفته خب بزار ببینم چه کلیشه هایی در این جهان هستی وجود دارن که من میتونم بیارم تو این کتابم؟ بزار همشون رو بیارم!! و واقعاً همشون رو آورده!! اغراق نمیکنم!!سه تا شخصیت اصلی داره این کتاب، دقیقاً کپی پیست هری و رون و هرماینی اما نسخه الکی مثلا بزرگسالشون🙄🙄 همه بلا استثنا یا های روی دراگن یا مسائل دیگه! یه شخصیت درست و حسابی نداره و من نمیدونم چرا کمبود یه شخصیت آدم حسابی قراره نکته خفنی برای این کتاب محسوب بشه😑اما گوی سبقت مزخرف ترین انسان این کتاب رو خود شخص شخیص کاراکتر اصلی می‌بره!! یه شخصیت خودشیفته نفهم دارای مشاعر نادرست سبک مغزه که عقده خود بزرگ بینی هم داره!! رفتارش با آلیس (هرماینی داستان ما) هم خیلی خیلی خیلی بده!اسم این کتاب هم جادوگرانه ولی در کل فکر کنم به زور یک سومش جادو داره بقیش یا تو کتابخونن یا مواد میزنن یا رو کشتین یا ول میگردن🙄خوندن این کتاب یه درس مهم برای من داشت و اونم اینه که گاهی اوقات باید به نمره های گودریدز توجه کرد!!
66636972	So let's get the horrible marketing out of the way first. First of all, for those of you who may be under the same misunderstanding as the good folks at Audible.com let me say this: The Magicians is not a children's book. I really think I should say it again, in bold this time: The Magicians is not a children's book. The cheery introduction by chanting 9 year olds that begins each section of the audible.com download ("This is audible kids!") makes as much sense as it would before an episode of HBOs The Sopranos. Violence, sex, alcohol, drugs, cruelty, depression... The Magicians has it all and more. No, it is definitely not a children's book. OK? Everyone got that? As a reader, I am extremely annoyed by bad marketing ploys like this one, since the issue of whether "The Magicians" is a good book should be considered apart from any child-appropriateness it may or may not possess, which is impossible if readers have been misled into believing they are downloading Harry Potter II: Harry Goes to Fillory for a nice family car ride. OK, on to the book itself. To be honest, before I read one of the interviews with the author, I couldn't be certain whether Grossman was paying homage to, or writing a satire of, a great many popular fantasy stories, including The Chronicles Of Narnia, The LOTR, Harry Potter, and even Star Wars. Was he twisting popular children's fantasy stories into something completely "other" in order to show us how silly they were to begin with? Or, alternately, how applicable they still are to adult readers? The nature of his story lends itself to either interpretation.Grossman may be following in some of the footsteps of C.S. Lewis and J.K. Rowling, but he also forges his own trail which can stand or fall on its own merits. Grossman has imagination to spare and the details of his magical worlds are original and enjoyable, but in my opinion the book falls, not because of the twist he has given to popular children's fantasy icons, but because his protagonist, Quentin Coldwater, is so unrelentingly annoying. We first meet Quentin at the age of seventeen, as an upper-middle-class American kid on his way to a Princeton admission interview. In very short time we become acquainted with his most obvious personal characteristics: self-pity, self-absorption, and a sense of entitlement. Now, it may very well be that those are the most obvious personal characteristics of the majority of American upper-middle-class teenagers at the age of seventeen, but that doesn't make them any less annoying to read about by those of us who are not said upper-class American teenagers. They would be annoying in real life, and they are just as - if not more - annoying in print, simply because the reader has no escape from the inside of Quentin's head. We begin the book wondering why he dislikes himself so much and end it by wondering why anyone else likes him at all. Nothing satisfies his feeling that life - his life - should be better than it is: more exciting, more fulfilling, more fair. Not admission to a secret, magical college; not acceptance by what is basically a secret magical co-ed fraternity; not passing an excruciating test - failed by most of his classmates - that makes him one of the few "true" magicians. Certainly not graduating and moving to Manhattan where he has unlimited funds to live on for an entire year and no real money worries after that. No, not even finally entering a magic kingdom and, eventually, not even finding his way home again. In fact, Quentin is at his most annoying after he has gone through his personal "redemption quest" in Fillory and returned to "the real world", where he lives a life that 99.9% of the human race can only dream about. Yet he still sulks. He self-flagellates. He beats his chest and cries "Woe! Woe is me!". It gets old.I am willing to admit that I may dislike Quentin because he embodies that part in all of us that - especially as teenagers and young adults - believes we were meant for "better things" and that the lives our parents live couldn't possibly be enough for us. However at some point, most of us face the fact that we are human beings, pretty much just like those around us, and the universe doesn't owe us glory and success. Quentin doesn't. None of the adventures or trauma that he goes through during the course of the book changes his sense of self-pity one iota. In the end of the book, he is the same person he was at the beginning, just older. And that is what makes "The Magicians" so depressing. In the end, Quentin is Peter Pan in Manhattan, with all the trappings of an adult life and the stunted feelings of a spoiled teen. And someone should get this Peter Pan on anti-depressants, stat.
3924663241	What do you get when you write an adult fan fic of Harry Potter and Narnia? This trash heap. The first half of the book is about a college version of Hogwarts. The problem is that every student is a prick and of course they are because they only accept the most self centered. The author has somehow managed to remove the excitement of magic entirely. A book about people learning history would read scarily similar to how magic is presented here. The second half is a really bad knockoff of Narnia. The cringiest part is that the magicians all talk like sailors, but the inhabitants of this strange land talk eerily like they're talking to children. In kind, the magicians respond in the same childish tone (until someone gets pissed off, which happens quite often with these low lifes, and then they spew things that would make someone's grandma blush). So who would enjoy this book? I think someone who loves reading about random acts of sex and drug use would feel right at home. Also those that read a book and wonder "What is so and so's boobs doing at this moment?" The author never fails to describe exactly what's going on with the boobs of every female character in each scene.
286603412	Quentin is miserable in the real world, but he's unsure why. When he is suddenly recruited for a secret school and realizes magic is real, he thinks it will bring him happiness."... you will be a magician, Quentin. It is not the obvious career path, I know. ... No one will know what you're doing here. You would be leaving all that behind." pg 37, ebookWhen his training, new friends, and experiences fails to bring Quentin joy, he looks even further into magical theory and stories. What he discovers, the existence of other worlds, is more fascinating and terrifying than he ever could have imagined."Most people carry that pain around inside them their whole lives, until they kill the pain by other means, or until it kills them. But you, my friends, you found another way: a way to use the pain. To burn it as fuel, for light and warmth." pg 216, ebookThis was my second time reading The Magicians. I first read it about ten years ago and loved it then.It stood up to the test of time for the most part, but I think I enjoyed it more the first time around because of the small reveals written into the story."Nobody wanted to admit they were frightened, so they took the only other option, which was to be irritable instead." pg 298, ebookI still loved Lev Grossman's homage to The Chronicles of Narnia by C.S. Lewis. I also loved his magic system.The magical students all have different strengths and that affects how they are able to use magic to change the world around them.The worlds Grossman has created are both fascinating and scary to explore. As you move through the book, you have a sense of uneasiness because you have no idea what is going to come next.And when you juxtapose that feeling with reading The Chronicles of Narnia or the Harry Potter series, this story becomes something else.Some readers have shared they couldn't connect with Quentin. He was too moody and unlikeable for them.I liked Quentin because he feels authentic like someone I could possibly know in the real world. Don't we all sometimes wish there was more to life than there appears to be on the surface?Don't we all wish some of our favorite stories were real?Highly recommended for fantasy readers. It doesn't get much better than The Magicians.
1270838351	4.5/5 StarsI really REALLY REALLY loved this book but I had a few problems with the beginning so I couldn't give it that full five stars. The ending ALMOST CONVINCED ME but not quite.This book is a little like harry potter and a little like narnia but not really at all. It has similarities to them, but it is totally it's own book and stands on it's own. The characters are really wonderful in the sense that you love and hate them at times, but overall they capture your heart and make you want to root for them no matter what.The ONE problem I have is that the first half of the book, the whole part at school, kept comparing itself to other "magical" novels and pointing out that it was different. It was totally different enough that it was not necessary to keep saying that, but the author KEPT POINTING IT OUT. But really, that was my only issue. Everything else was totally wonderful.
1548522547	Αυτό το βιβλίο μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ παραδόξως…. Και το λέω αυτό διότι ξέρω σε πόσους πολλούς δεν άρεσε. Η ιστορία είναι φανερά εμπνευσμένη στο πρώτο μέρος της από το σχολείο Χογκουαρτς (σειρά Harry Potter ) και το δεύτερο εντελώς ξεδιάντροπα από την Νάρνια. Δεν θα ξεχάσω την στιγμή οπού ετοιμάζονταν να παίξουν γουέλτερς (ένα παιχνίδι που επινόησε ο συγγραφέας) οπού ένας απο τους ήρωες το έλεγε συνεχώς Κουίντις (ψυχαγωγικο αθλημα της σειρας Harry Potter) … ο αυτοσαρκασμός του Grossman ταίριαξε τόσο υπέροχα στο στιγμιότυπο! Οι αναφορές, είτε και συνομιλία (πείτε το όπως θέλετε) με τα δύο έργα δεν με χάλασαν καθόλου. Διότι ο σκοπός του συγγραφέα δεν είναι η αντιγραφή, αλλά να πει μια ιστορία ενήλικη με ότι αυτό προϋποθέτει. Γιατί η ζωή δεν εξελίσσεται ποτέ όπως στις όμορφες ιστορίες. Γιατί οι ήρωες δεν φέρονται πάντα ηρωικά...Ρεαλιστική αφήγηση, οπού μερικές φόρες εμπεριέχει αρκετή θλίψη (ειδικά στο πρώτο μέρος, ανησυχούσα τόσο για την ψυχολογική κατάσταση του ήρωα, που φοβόμουν μην μου βγει αυτοκτονικός). Χαρακτήρες που ως έφηβοι είναι επιπόλαιοι, λάγνοι, νευρικοί και φυσικά αρκετές φορές δεν έχουν καμία πίστη στον εαυτό τους. Ναι, έφτιαξε χαρακτήρες με απόλυτα ρεαλιστική ψυχοσύνθεση. Και νομίζω ότι ο σκοπός του συγγραφέα δεν είναι το μαγικό στοιχείο, αλλά αυτό ήταν απλά το μέσο, μια μεταφορά για να αναδείξει το ταξίδι των ηρώων προς την ενηλικίωση. Να αναγνωρίσουν είτε την ματαιότητα των πράξεων τους, είτε να βρουν την ελπίδα εκεί που δεν το φανταζόντουσαν. Μου άρεσε πολύ το στιγμιότυπο οπού η ηρωίδα Αλις λέει στον Κουέντιν «Μόνο εσύ πιστεύεις στην μαγεία» και αυτό μέσα σε μία σχολή μαγείας… Η πλοκή είναι πολύ αργή -γεμάτη περιγραφές κ σκέψεις που προσωπικά τις βρήκα εξαιρετικά ελκυστικές – και παίρνει πραγματικά τα πάνω της από το τρίτο από τα τέσσερα μέρη του βιβλίου. Βέβαια στα δυο τελευταία μέρη γίνεται πραγματικός χαμός, μάχες, αγωνία και αιματοχυσίες…Μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ! Προτείνω να μείνουν μακριά οι λάτρεις της γρήγορης πλοκής και δράσης γιατί μέχρι η δράση να πάρει τα πάνω της, θα σκυλοβαρεθούν!
67029818	October 2021: My past self would be devastated to learn I have gotten even more out of this read than I did the last. I still really dislike most of these characters, especially when we reach the middle section after they graduate from Brakebrills and become disaffected young adults. I never went through this stage and feel a sort of helpless contempt for people who did (it really brings out the selfishness and cruelty in a person). As Alice notes later in the book, their perspectives are so warped and they have no sense of how privileged and full of opportunities their lives are, and that their being so miserable is a choice. I also noticed this go-round how early Grossman had seeded the themes he would eventually bring to fruition in book three. I particularly enjoyed all the musings on time, and on emotional maturity, and where magic comes from and how it is used. (There was this great moment where Dean Fogg muses that he thinks magic comes from unhappy people who have learned to channel that unhappiness into action.) It's frustrating to see Quentin bumbling through his life being so abominable, but the payoff for me at least when he has his epiphany in book three is totally worth it. Revisiting book two next month.Final review of second time through, posted 10/16/15: Sometimes you read a book and you go temporarily insane.The first time I read this book, I'm pretty sure this happened to me. At the very least, I experienced some sort of existential crisis while trying to sort out my feelings for it. I definitely remember being so upset and flamboozled that I started crying while writing my review here on GR. I still think this book could have maybe been executed a little bit differently to let the readers know that Grossman was with us on his characters being insufferable shitheads, but I also think this book hit a nerve in me that I wasn't really able to articulate, and I got defensive and weird. Which happens. I swore I would never read the sequels.And then . . . somehow I decided that I would? I no longer remember the thought processes that brought me to change my mind. Which is sort of weird? I had a seriously strong reaction to it! Maybe I'm just older. Maybe my brain has had the book in the back of my mind all this time and has been mulling it over, and then it decided without my permission that we were going to give it another go.Whatever the reasoning all up in there, I'm SO GLAD THAT I DID.I'm writing this review after having already finished the trilogy, which in my opinion got better with each book. I am now of the very strong opinion that this book absolutely cannot be read on its own. If you're going to try this series, you have to do all of it, otherwise you're missing the whole picture. This book isn't fully itself without knowing how things end for Quentin and his friends. Maybe that's a weakness in Grossman's writing style, but it is a fact.Everyone I know who's read this series agrees that its main character Quentin is a douchecanoe of the highest order. He's intelligent and hard working, but he's also privileged, whiny, and self-pitying. He's prone to long bouts of feeling sorry for himself and thinking the world is shit, which leads to all sorts of unpleasant behaviors and choices, including drug use, alcohol abuse, philandering, general wastrel-type behavior, teenage malaise, and behavior that indicates he feels he's better than nearly everyone else. And all this while there is MAGIC in the world.People have called this the grown up Harry Potter. But I call bullshit on that. Sure, they go to magic school, but all of the themes and character development in this book aren't aimed at undercutting or responding to anything going on in that series on more than a superficial level. The book itself tells you what it's really concerned with right in the first chapter (and it's borne out by the following books), and that's the magical land of Fillory, which is Grossman's answer to The Chronicles of Narnia. Fillory for Grossman and for Quentin represents the hope of childhood, that there exists a magical place or state of being where anything is possible, where heroes always win and you're handed glory on a silver platter, just because you deserve it. It's the main goal of these books to subvert both Quentin's black despair about the state of the adult world, and his naïve belief that the answer to feeling better about life will come from outside himself, from a magical land where he can be King and all his problems will disappear.This book is very adult. I really don't think it does a great job on its own of letting you know the true aim of the series as a whole. It's just as likely to completely turn readers off as it is to excite them. But Grossman picked the style of remaining close inside his characters' heads for a reason, and while it is unpleasant to be that close to them in this first outing (and large portions of the next one), I think a more omniscient narrator in the end would have been the worse choice. Sure, that hypothetical narrator could have let us in on the secret that the series would be about Quentin growing up and out of his awfulness, but I don't think that second or third book would have been nearly so powerful a reading experience if it had.Long story short, if you gave up on this series like I did, maybe consider giving it another go?September 2015: Well, I kind of can't believe I'm doing this, but I'm increasing my rating of this by a full star. The first time I read this, I took the things Grossman's characters did and said as espousing more of Grossman's worldview than I think I should have. This second read through has convinced me that main character Quentin's outlook isn't necessarily right, and the way he and his friends behave not necessarily a reflection of how Grossman thinks humans really are (although, maybe still a little bit). I will have a lot more to say in my full review, which I think I'm going to save until after I finish the second two books.April 2010: I have two main things to say about this book. The first is that part of me feels like this book was written just for me, and the second is that the other part of me despises it for exactly that reason. The first part wanted to give it five stars for the awful, pessimistic, nihilistic feelings of solidarity that it conjured up inside of me with the main character Quentin, who I honestly don't even like, and the second part wanted to give it one star, throw it out the window and scream "FUCK YOU" into the night. Because here's the thing about what this book is telling me. Part of me believes every joyless word because that part of me, the part that is lost and doesn't know what to do about the future, and the part of me that is tired of just waiting for that magical adventure to come and find me (which is honestly how I spend half of my life, and half the reason I read and watch TV in the first place, for the power of stories) needs to be told to grow up. It needs to be told that if I live my life like it's a story instead of like it's real life, I'm going to miss something. It's also telling me, you are not an adult and you never will be if you don't stop believing -- really believing, like I do -- in fairytales.But here's the other thing, even if that's true, that's not how I want to live my life. I will believe in fairytales and magic until the day I die. Not the literal kind of course, but the kind that gives you hope that there's something better out there than nothingness and alcohol.- - -UPDATE: I feel like I need to give Grossman his due, however, because I haven't felt emotions this strongly about a book in quite a while, even if they aren't all positive, and I don't think he could have done that if he wasn't talented.
1900773575	I had typed up a gigantic review of this book - because I had so many thoughts upon finishing it - and my internet browser died in the editing stage, so I lost it. I'm not really inclined to go into that level of detail again for this story, so we'll go with the cliffnotes version: Portal fantasy is my all time favorite subgenre of fantasy, so I went into this expecting to love it and came away more than a little bit disappointed. A really interesting premise/plot synopsis is unfortunately lost in the telling and wasted on characters that are almost wholly unlikable. Touted to me and other readers by critics as "an adult-oriented Harry Potter meets Narnia," I will say that the one area where this book did meet expectations was in the way the story is told for adults. There's sex, alcohol consumption and drug use, and a plethora of violence to keep any adult reader who looks for these things in the novels they read to be entertained. However, what is missing from this tale is the stuff that made Harry Potter and Narnia so great: wonderful and strong characters, and a subtext designed to deliver upon a theme to those readers dedicated to look deep enough. One of the things I think this book did really well is actually the opening hook and few chapters, when Quentin is somewhat still idealistic and hopeful. Sure, he's obsessed with the notion of a magical world called Fillory from a children's series he reads compulsively, but at least I was able to find something about him I liked in those chapters. Even if you don't like him then, there's still the mystery of Brakebills and Fillory that was compelling enough to keep me reading. Unfortunately, once Quentin is enrolled in Brakebills - the adult alternative University for Wizards to Hogwarts - all that stuff I liked so much becomes a real chore to stay invested in. Partly because of the way the story is told, and partly because the characters in the story are just lousy human beings. For a story set in a school where students are taught magic, there was a noticeable lack of both scenes in which the characters were being taught anything at all by their professors, and also a strange lack of anything interesting to find in the magic. Because the students in this story are adults learning magic, it appears Grossman wanted to make the magic system as boring as possible to really sell it that these are adults taking classes on magic. It's sold as a really unclear and almost scientific process that we only see the surface of because Grossman was apparently so bored by the process of describing it that he often chooses instead to skip weeks, months and entire years in advance to avoid doing so. It feels a bit unfair by the middle of the book, because Quentin and his peers are suddenly experienced magicians in their craft. They've leveled up without the courtesy of involving the readers in most of the process, which is what I was most interested to read. Now, as for the characters in this Ivy League alternative school for magic... I don't know why Grossman was thinking with them. They each do this really insufferable Holden Caulfield/Catcher in the Rye impression throughout the entire story. They're all cynical, jaded and determined to find the worst in each other/their situation throughout the novel, despite the fact that they're all extremely privileged to have been plucked from their mundane lives to enroll at a prestigious and magical university. Quentin quite literally abandons his muggle friend Julia when she fails to get into Brakebills, and we the reader are forced to hear him gaslight and abuse her at every turn the few times they meet again during the story. The rest of Quentin's magical friends take turns ruminating about the purpose of their lives and futures, while drinking themselves into a stupor at every turn - a trap that Quentin too falls into. There's a whole hundred pages in here that is basically just Quentin and his friends drinking, doing drugs, having sex with each other, and then Quentin shaming each of them for doing so, or for allowing him to do so when he was perfectly in control of his own actions. This brings me to the whole romance subplot in this book that I'm going to hide under spoiler tags just because I don't want to ruin it and I do have something to say. (view spoiler)[Quentin's treatment of Alice is beyond reprehensible, and really solidified how much I dislike him as a character - especially after his treatment of Julia earlier in the story. Alice and Quentin as a couple didn't bother me, although the fact that the first time they have sex is while they were magically transformed into foxes by one of their professors is really odd to me. Like, I'm not sure why the author decided to go there? For one, it's just weird. Secondly, it removes both Alice and Quentin's agency by making them a slave to "animal passion." I was able to forgive that when the two decide to make a go of it as a couple once they've returned to human form. Unfortunately, Quentin royally stuffs that up by having a threesome while in a drunken stupor with Elliot and Janet. Quentin then spends the next few chapters, equal parts mystified and enraged that Alice won't speak to him and has broken up with him. And then later still, when Alice has sex with mutual friend, Penny, Quentin just can't help himself and shames her for it - despite the fact that they were broken up, and he CHEATED ON HER FIRST. It is amazing to me that Quentin's treatment of Alice didn't catch some editor's eye and end up on the cutting room floor, because it really is that reprehensible and it reflects badly on the author and the character, in my opinion. /end rant (hide spoiler)]Unfortunately, the trip to Fillory/Narnia was the best part of the story, and it only happens in the last hundred pages or so. If I was rating the book just for those aspects of the story, it would be getting a higher rating. However, a novel is the sum of its parts and the first third of this story just brings the whole curve down. I bought this series of novels 4 years ago. I finally picked up and read this book because my sister loves the television show and has been asking me to watch it. I'm a purist at heart, and read the book before watching the first season of the show. Honestly, for me, the series is better at humanizing the characters than this book was. Enough has been altered/changed from the things that annoyed me in this book that I find the story more enjoyably told on screen than it was on the page. Not sure if/when I'll pick up book 2 - maybe if the show really ends up hooking me! 3 out of 5 stars
1033742022	I have been meaning to read this book for a couple of years and only just got around to it, at this rate it will take several incarnations for me to finish my reading list. However, I am somewhat familiar with Lev Grossman’s writing, I have read many of his articles for Time magazine, and admired his witty writing style. However, the basic concept of the magicians did not look too enticing. A Hogwarts-ish college? It sounded a little derivative to me, even if Grossman adapted the style for a more mature readership. Still, it does seem to be quite popular among adult fantasy readers and as I said I like the author's style so here we finally are.Having finished it, I can tell you that The Magicians is much more than a pastiche of Harry Potter series, or C.S. Lewis’ The Chronicles of Narnia from which Grossman also borrowed heavily. The Magicians follows Quentin Coldwater a lonely high school graduate who stumbles upon “Brakebills”, a college of magic very similar to Hogwarts (and also the school for wizards in Ursula K. Le Guin’s A Wizard of Earthsea which predates Harry Potter by decades). The major difference is The Magicians’ adult language, sexual situations and some graphic violence. This book is certainly not a spoof or a mere imitation of the legendary fantasy series I mentioned. Grossman combines the tropes of the Harry Potter and Narnia series very well, and even manages to turn most of these tropes on their heads. The mechanics and philosophy of magic are quite cleverly imagined here.The entire book is a breeze to read from beginning to end thanks to Levman’s excellent prose style which is often witty and touches upon literary at times. I have a couple of reservations however, the first half of the book feels too derivative of Harry Potter and Narnia. The concepts are no longer fresh even though they are cleverly utilized. My other reservation is with the protagonist Quentin Coldwater who I find rather unsympathetic. An unsympathetic antihero is fine but Quentin is not an antihero, he is a hero who makes mistakes that many teenagers and young adults do. However, I find him to be selfish, self-indulgent and a general pain in the ass. Even by the end of the book when he realized his errors I still do not find that he has redeemed himself. I think Grossman’s idea is to present a young man whose youthful impulses cause a lot of grief for himself and others. Unfortunately, I do not think Grossman endowed him with enough redeemable qualities for me to sympathize with his plight.On the plus side, the second half of the book is quite a tremendous read as the main characters graduate from college and the Narnia-like element takeover from the wizardry training at Brakebills which was beginning to pall for me. I do not want to say too much about the second part and the thrilling climax of the book because there are some great surprises in store for you if you read it.I am not entirely sure I will read the subsequent volumes of this Magicians series, I am sure that if I do I will enjoy the books because of the author’s prose style, imagination and storytelling skill. However, I do not care enough about the characters to follow their adventures and there are several other series I am more invested in.I can easily recommend The Magicians as an enjoyable read with the caveats that I mentioned, they are by no means deal-breakers. Certainly if you are into the “school of magic” type of fantasy this book should do nicely.____________________________Notes:• The images are from the Syfy adaptation of this book series, it is quite good, certainly good enough to entice me to read the rest of the book series (I wasn't going to!) • Brakebills has a pretty cool website for a fictional university.• Volume 2 The Magician King is better than this first volume (see my review).
983144702	Öncelikle şunu söyleyeyim Büyücüler benim en sevmediğim kitaptır. Sonra bu kız niye bu kadar nefret kustu, yazarla aralarında bi olay mı var, Brakebills'e alınacaktı da sınavı geçemedi o yüzden mi böyle sinirli demeyin de...Pişmanlık #1: Bu kitaba para vermiş olmak.Pişmanlık #2: Bu kitabı okumuş olmak.Pişmanlık #3: Bu kitabı ÇOK MERAK ETTİĞİM İÇİN (oh god why) yarısını LYS döneminde okumuş olmak.Pişmanlık #4: Bu kitapla ilgili her şey.Tanıştırayım; Quentin Coldwater.Dizisinin fragmanında 35 yaşında göstermesinin aksine aslında kendisi 17 yaşında ve ultra zeki. Bölgesel matematik yarışmalarında yardırmış latinceymiş konuşma yarışmalarıymış hepsi çocuk oyuncağı onun için. Bildiğimiz inek. Çok sevdiği bir kitap serisi var bunun Fillory diye. Hayatı çok sıkıcı olduğu için sürekli olarak bu seriyi okuyor ama büyünün gerçek olmadığına inanıyor o da. Buraya kadar komple arka kapağı yazdım size ama Quentin hakkında bilmeniz gereken tek şey şu: Quentin Coldwater edebiyat tarihinin yazılmış en mutsuz, en tatminsiz, en uyuz karakteridir bana göre. Başına çok mükemmel şeyler gelir (Büyü okuluna kabul edilmek? Büyü yapabiliyor olmak???? (view spoiler)[Fıstık gibi sevgilinin olması? Fillory'e gidebilmek?!?!?!? (hide spoiler)] Çok başarılı biri olmak??) ama Quentin her durumda ufak da olsa kötü bir şey bulmayı yine başarır. Asla mutlu olmaz, adeta mutsuz olmayı seçer.Neyse, kitabın başlarında Quentin kendini birden Brakebills Üniversitesi için girilmesi gereken bir sınavda buluyor. Daha buralarda karakterlerin biraz kasıntı olduğunu düşünmüştüm. Quentin'in ilk karşılaştığı kişi Eliot adında biri ve kendisi de ilk izlenim olarak Quentin kadar uyuz biriydi. Bunun yanında Quentin'in sınava girmeden önce konuştuğu hoca ve daha sonradan tanıştığı Penny de "BU KİTAPTA DÜZGÜN KARAKTER YOK MU, OLACAK MI??!?" diye düşünmeme sebep olmuştu. ve daha 32. sayfadayız.Merhaba Brakebills'e hoşgeldin. ben Eliot. Bana başka bir şey söyleme, bilmek istemiyorum. Sana alışmak istemem. Böyle de coolum işte allah kahretsin. Kitabın 3/2'si o kadar boş ve hızlı ilerliyor ki 99. sayfada 3. sınıfa geliyorlar. 144. sayfada 4. sınıftalar. Bu okul beş yıllık mı ne bu arada.. Ve size yemin ediyorum. BU KİTABIN YARISINDAN ÇOĞUNDA HİÇBİR ŞEY OLMUYOR. Derslere giriyorlar, Quentin mızmızlanıyor, takılıyorlar, (view spoiler)[Quentin derste hocanın yaptığı önemli bir büyüyü bozup sınıfa bir yaratığın gelmesine sebep oluyor ve bu yaratık birini öldürüyor. Quentin dolaylı yoldan birini öldürüyor yani. Mal yemin ederim. (hide spoiler)] hiçbir.şey.olmuyor.Okurken sinirden kahkaha attığım bir yer daha vardı. Welters. Welters zannediyorum ki Lev Grossman'ın yazmak için kendini kastığı bir şeydi. Bu Welters dediğimiz şey bir büyücü sporu. Bana kalırsa yazar şöyle düşündü: "Madem Narnia ve Harry Potter arası bir şey yazıyorum, bir de konuyla hiçbir alakası olmayan, hikayeye hiçbir katkısı olmayacak bir spor da yazmalıyım. Çünkü Quidditch varken benim kitabımda da bir spor olmalı."Welters ilgi çekici bir şey değil. Yerde kareler var ve büyü kullanarak kareleri himayeleri altında tutmaya çalışıyorlar. Neyse, bana kasıntı gelmişti sadece. Olmasa da olurdu. Turnuvaya falan çıkıyorlar bir de. İnanılmaz gereksizdi :')-256.sayfada asıl olaya geliyoruz. Ve benim cinnet anlarım başlıyor.Öncelikle Quentin seksist manyağın teki. Üşenmeyip alıntılarla yazıcam şimdi bazılarını.(view spoiler)[Quentin sevgilisi Alice'i yakın arkadaşları Janet ile aldatıyor ve Alice onları yakaladığında ilk söylediği şeylerden biri şu: "Alice! Alice! Bir anlığına unut olanları!"...."Anlamıyorsun. Hayat çok boş geliyordu....Fırsatımız varken yaşamalıydık...Ama işler kontrolden çıktı."..."Çok sarhoştuk..." Bir arka sayfada(264) Alice'e konuşuyor diye "Kadın milleti işte. diyor bir de. Allahım keçileri kaçırıcam.275. sayfada ise Fillory'e gidecekleri için mutlu olan Quentin birden yine depresyona giriyor ve dün Fillory'e gittiklerinde işlerin yoluna koyulacağını düşündüğünü ama birden öyle olmayacağını, her şeyin bir rüya gibi geldiğini hissederek şöyle düşünüyor: "Janet ve Alice meselesi gerçekti. Her şeyi berbat edecekti."Be mal. Sen içine ettin her şeyin? Ortada bi berbatlık varsa sebebi direk sensin yani. 277. sayfada ise Janet hakkında Alice'le olan ilişkisini sabote ettiğini ve bundan zevk aldığını söylüyor. Çünkü Janet Quentin'in gazozuna ilaç attı ve Quentin'e tecavüz etti.Yok öyle bir şey. Quentin iradesini kullanamayıp dayanamadı bildiğin. Şimdi gelip Janet'ı suçluyor. (hide spoiler)]277. sayfa itibariyle Quentin'e davranışları için hak verdim ve kendisini affettim. ÇÜNKÜ QUENTİN ŞİZOFREN. KAFASINDAN ŞEYLER UYDURUYOR. ÖYLE BİR ŞEY YAZMAMIŞLAR AMA BU DEDİKLERİNİN BAŞKA HİÇ AMA HİÇBİR AÇIKLAMASI OLAMAZ.Salak yemin ederim gerizekalı bu çocuk.(view spoiler)[ 374.Sayfada Alice Quentin'i korumak için ölüyor. Evet. Kendisini aldatan, mutlu etmeyen Quentin için. kendisini. feda. ediyor. Bu kitapta bir tane bile aklı başında karakter yok. (hide spoiler)]Saçma sapan karakterler, sıkıcı bir konu, hiçbir yere varmayan bir hikaye, iç bayıcı olaylar. Kendinize kötülük yapmak isterseniz mutlaka okuyun.Kitabın dizisi çıkacak. Fragmanı izledim ve bana kalırsa müthiş bir fragman olmuş. Benim gibi kitaptan nefret eden biri bile beğendiyse siz de beğenirsiniz diye düşünüyorum. Kitaba körü körüne sadık kalmaz da Quentin'i gıcık bir şey yapmaz, olaylara heyecan katarlarsa, yani kitabı baya bir değiştirirlerse güzel bir şeyler çıkabileceğini düşünüyorum... Yine de dizisini izlemek istediğim bu kadar kitap varken bunun diziye çevirilmesi bana özel yapılmış bir kamera şakası gibi :')Buradan izleyebilirsiniz :')["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1328553082	For the most part, I liked the novel, but I have some very serious bones to pick with it. First of all, it was only a very slightly veiled story about super-rich-kids pissing and moaning in an extremely exclusive ivy-league college, reminiscing tones of Bret Easton Ellis as Harry Potter. The whole Narnia riff-nee-theme is too obvious to mention, because it's so huge, but unlike C. S. Lewis, the underlying concept is reversed, and not in a good way. (My idea of a reverse Lewis is basically your evil realm of darkness that you can step through as if you were Stephen King.)No. Instead we have here a world of magic that appears to be one of deep happiness and wonder, but at its heart is the idea that it exists only for unhappy people. If you're content, you can never have magic. To that, I want to say, "Shit" in all the complex and various ways we get right out of The Wire. It's like we're dealing with a critic/novelist who saw Harry Potter as unbelievably happy and decided to take a nice, long, 400 page dump over it.I wouldn't be bothering to bring up the riffs if Lev Grossman hadn't done it, himself. So the kids matriculate out of college, discover that they're spoiled rich kids that never have to work or do anything serious again, waste their lives around the warm heart of the void, screw everything up, and then discover that they can go to the other world and drag all their unhappiness around with them.How delightful. I might have been carried around my the concept if one of the characters had proved to be the happy foil to all this misery, but no, everyone is pretty much set on being humorless pricks.So after saying all this, you ask, "Why do you even think it was a pretty good story, then?"The hidden plot with the beast was actually rather satisfying, the learning at school was pretty neat, and at one point I was actually rooting for Quentin and Alice.The fact that I liked Quentin for a while made me hurt more when he turned into such an ass.The book is somewhat redeemed for the wrap-up, while not redeeming any single character, did leave a lot open for later improvement. The fact that the two next novels get much better reviews helps a lot, here, or I might have stopped with this one. Yes, I am a lemming, but I am a discerning lemming. :)I want to see where it all goes from here.
3264217202	So, so, so... I did enjoy this book. However, I came across this series on Netflix and made the mistake of falling IN LOVE with the series.The book is VERY far off from the show, but that has nothing at all to do with the book. I enjoyed the book while reading it. I did think there was some drawn out parts with little to no dialogue to keep you interested in what was happening. I caught myself thinking about my to do list while reading at times and needing to go back and reread large sections of the book. All in all, it was a great read... I would have read it much faster if life didn’t get in my way and I put it down for over a month 🤦🏼‍♀️. Oh, and the author could have not use so many useless descriptive words to get his point across. I came across words in this book I have NEVER heard of before! I got through it though and learned from it!Onto book two! Happy reading 😊 📚
4846406618	a lot more similar to the tv show than i expected. i never really cared about Quentin, he’s basically an incel. something about a grown ass man (ik he’s only 19 but still) being this obsessed with a book series for children is just so… unappealing? appalling? it’s something that always annoyed me in the tv show too. i love the tv show, it’s my favorite thing ever but something about the books lacks the appeal the tv show has.
159129458	Harry Potter for adults! You had me at...well, every single word in that description. Loving the conception of magic.
1681570260	I'd recommend this only for those who appreciate complex stories, unexpected weirdness, flawed characters (like... really flawed), and original magic systems. If after a few chapters you don't get used to the pace just drop it.Personally I loved it, and I'm looking forward to reading the sequels.
305589708	This book was just amazing. I loved every sentence of it. Was it perfect? No, not absolutely perfect. A few trivial elements bothered me but none of them were significant enough to detract from the beauty of the writing, the sophistication of the story, and the convincing world built by Lev Grossman.*For the uninitiated, the premise of this book is nothing new in fantasy. A young man in our real world/reality discovers magic is real when he is tracked down and invited to attend a magic university. The story follows him through his experience at college (which Grossman envisions like the most exclusive Ivy League school for the rich) and then after graduation. Really, I don’t even like coming of age stories! But I could not. Put. The Magicians. Down.I suppose some call this urban fantasy. No doubt it has elements of many fantasy novels incorporated—from Harry Potter to C.S. Lewis to Alice in Wonderland. But Grossman weaves them together with enough original ideas to create something utterly unique. And his writing! Such well-crafted sentences and paragraphs. I wasn’t let down even once. Dare I say it? I found it glorious.Do not mistake this for Young Adult. Sex, swearing, and some nasty violence (wait, violence is okay for kids these days, isn’t it? It’s just the sex they’re not allowed to see) are all part of Quentin’s believable (yes, believable) life. He felt absolutely like a real person to me. It's not quite Charles Bukowski does fantasy ... it's closer to China Miéville re-writes Harry Potter. Juicy.Here’s my highest praise. I’m going to run out and buy the sequel from my local bookseller this week. Fingers crossed …*Okay, there were two typos.
2117187793	This book was JACKED UP! I affectionately refer to it as Harry Potter mixed with Chronicles of Narnia mixed with Willow for 20-somethings on a drunken acid trip. Wow, they made a tv show about this, but there is a LOT of messed up stuff that they will probably change and cut. I watched the first episode of it, and it is already messing with the storyline...Also, the weird and disgusting hand obsession. Will I read on in the Trilogy: Yes... Eventually, it'll be solidly in the middle of my list. It uniquely plagiarizes a lot of other story content while making it darker and adding sex, haha.I'm left with a solid 3 Star rating.
1485610505	*3.5 stars*★ 2016 AtY Reading Challenge ★: A book set in another continent.
115409129	I wanted to read this as soon as it came out - seriously, it's a gorgeous cover! - even without knowing much about it except that it seemed like an adult Harry Potter. But then people's reviews of the hardcover started to come in, and they were lacklustre and generally disappointed. I have to say, I'm in the same category. The premise is interesting, the detail is rich, but the characters are awful, the story is slow, and by 300 pages in you really don't care anymore. It's one of those books I had to force myself to finish, and I finished it about a month ago so please forgive this rather harried, less detailed review.The story is about Quentin Coldwater, a supposed genius who even now at eighteen is obsessed with the Narnia-like Fillory series from the 1930s. He practices magic tricks in his spare time. So finding himself brought to a world within the world, a world of magic and magicians, is a dream come true. But Quentin is also a fuck-up, and by dint of his very personality he turns his dream-come-true into a miserable place.The novel takes place over several years, through his magician training and into the first year as a graduated magician. He has a group of friends, who aren't much more likeable than he is, and a more gifted girlfriend, Alice - a relationship he screws up, literally. The group has the chance to visit Fillory itself, and the fact that they're too old doesn't stop them.While the story ponders the theme of why only children get to go to magical worlds (namely, Narnia), I didn't find it all that satisfying because the answer always seemed pretty obvious to me - an answer that the book arrives at too, in a long-winded way. Quentin himself, in his self-hating way, as well as his friends, put it pretty clearly. "Well, okay, then know this." Janet put her hands on her hips. She had struck an unexpected vein of bitterness in herself, and it was running away with her. "We human beings are unhappy all the time. We hate ourselves and we hate each other and sometimes we wish You or Whoever had never created us or this shit-ass world or any other shit-ass world. Do You realize that? So next time You might think about not doing such a half-assed job." (p.349)That's what Janet, one of Quentin's friends, tells the ram Ember (a stand-in for Aslan) in Fillory. I've taken it out of context but with everything going on and building up to it, it's a fine speech that makes a surprising amount of sense.Frankly, though, the whole novel just seemed a bit too show-off-y to me, rather like Special Topics in Calamity Physics , which I liked even less. This was one of those books that should have worked, should have appealed, should have been pretty bloody special, but wasn't. Quentin doesn't narrate, but it's his perspective we always get, his words in our head, and he's such a bloody miserable whinger it's hard to put up with him.There was a lot of good stuff in the book, but it took such a distant back seat to miserable Quentin and his binge-drinking, loud friends that you never got to see much of it or understand it. The magic side was handled like a side issue, a plot device to enable them to reach Fillory and nothing more. Not explored for its own sake, or because it's interesting. And the world of Brakebills (the school) and of magic in general didn't really make much sense to me. It tried to be funny at times but I don't remember it as being at all funny or even moderately amusing. There was just an overall feeling of "wow you suck" to it that I didn't get much enjoyment from the story, the characters or the writing. One thing The Magicians succeeded at all too well, is taking the gloss and glam off magic.I also have to add that Quentin's - or the author - isn't so smart after all: I was annoyed to read this: "A block of stone stood in the center of [the] room. On it was a large shaggy sheep - or no, it had horns, so that made it a ram." (p.345) First of all, rams are sheep. Female sheep are called ewes. Secondly, and more importantly, horns aren't restricted to rams. Ewes can have horns too, they've just mostly been bred out of them. We would still get the odd ewe with horns on the farm, sometimes big curly horns even. A throwback to original genetics. See, can't trust everything you read in a book, can you? ;)Overall, a disappointing, slow read about people you would never want to hang out with without wanting to slap them after two minutes, who reach a magical land and manage to ruin it because they bring with them all their angst and depression. Once you've lost the sense of wonder and fair play of children, you really should be kept out of Fillory/Narnia; but this lot were so selfish and trapped in their crappy lives they just had to step through "the magic door", so to speak. Wretches.I'm certainly not going to bother with the sequel, The Magician King, no matter how lovely the cover is. Now I've written all that, it's clear that a month on all I can really remember are the things I didn't like. Still, I must have liked it well enough to give it three stars at the time, so I'm going to leave it as is. Stars aren't all that important anyway, I find.
133231602	When I first heard of The Magicians, I was immediately intrigued. Not by the marketing blurb, but by the fact that it was written by Lev Grossman, the brother of Austin Grossman, author of Soon I Will Be Invincible, a book I seriously loved. (Even now, I sometimes think about Dr. Impossible and chuckle to myself.)Having grown up with a brother who couldn’t be more different from me, I was curious as to how the Grossman brothers’ work would compare. Would Lev’s writing be as witty and fun as Austin’s, or would he be heavier and more serious? Did I dare hope he might be even better?I pretty much decided to read the book then, but I was busy and didn’t get around to buying it for a while. In that time, I heard both good and bad reviews from people whose opinions I respect, which was all the more intriguing. Reviews (including this one) are subjective. One person's refreshing is another's pretentious. Much of what we take from a reading experience comes from what we bring into it. Not just our likes and dislikes, but also our general mood at the time of reading.So I rolled the dice and bought the eBook on my iPad. This is only the second book I’ve read this way, the first being Best Served Cold by Joe Abercrombie. A tough act to follow, but Grossman acquits himself well.Quentin, the protagonist in The Magicians, is not very likeable. His self-loathing, coupled with an enormous sense of superiority and entitlement, bleeds from the page. You feel a little greasy just reading about him, and it’s easy to loathe him just as he loathes himself.But this, in some ways, is what makes him so compelling a character, and one I found myself relating to in odd ways. At its core, The Magicians is the story of Quentin’s quest to find happiness. He keeps setting goals, telling himself “If I can do this, then I will be happy.” But then he does that, and it doesn’t. So he sets a new goal, “If I can do this, then I will be happy.”Lather, rinse, repeat.It’s a familiar story, and one that lives in the very core of human nature. We thrive on misery. Every great advancement in technology or quality of life in human history has quickly generated its own set of complaints. The entire human race has a sense of entitlement, but it is that very sense that pushes us to strive for greater and greater things.Grossman also takes a new spin on the Harry Potter or even Name of the Wind “wizard school” dynamic with Brakebills Academy. Sometimes these comparisions are less than subtle, as Grossman appears to be making a conscious effort to differentiate himself and reach a mainstream audience. Brakebills is more a university than a prep school, with all the more mature themes that setting generates. The overwhelming feeling of stress and pressure on the student body is palpable. There is no simple swish and flick of a wand at Brakebills. Magic in Grossman’s world is HARD, and not for the faint of heart or weak of will.The first two sections of The Magicians are stellar. Really sharp, compelling reading, right up until graduation.But at this 2/3 mark, the book seems to lose its way. It flounders for a few chapters, introducing several new and basically superfluous characters and generally losing momentum before finally picking up again as Quentin and his new unwieldy party journey to Fillory, a thinly veiled version of CS Lewis’ Narnia which depends much on the reader filling in the blanks with memories of that series. If you’ve never read The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe (or seen the movie, at least), you’ll miss a large component of the book.This third act was not as integrated into the story as I would have liked. There were some small hints in the early sections about where the book was going, but they were never really developed.There is some very good stuff in the Fillory section, but it comes off as somewhat rushed, and then begins a series of endings, each more depressing in its own way than the last. I was holding my breath, waiting for an epiphany at the end, but while Quentin did seem to have one that changed his outlook on life, I wasn't entirely clear on what it was.Despite my feelings about the last act, there is a lot in The Magicians to recommend it. Grossman’s writing is efficient, his characters varied and complicated. His take on magic is masterful, and it is never allowed to become a deus ex machina for a weak plot. I would recommend The Magicians to others, and will likely buy Grossman's next book.
2029047732	Buddy read with the Wednesday UF group @BBB.When I started this book I thought "Hmm this has so much potential, it's almost like Harry Potter but with grown ups." What a joke! At his most immature Harry was never this childish as the characters that populate The Magician. If you ever wondered what it would be like to read a book with a immature, entitled, whiny outsider as a main character then you should try this. The apathy just poured out of it! Quentin is everything that is wrong with most of the young adults these days and before you start with the "it's because you're from a different generation, you can't possibly understand" I want to tell you that I'm 26 years old and as a TA at an university I have the opportunity to observe the YA just after high school. So the generation gap between me and the people I'm talking about is almost non-existent. Quentin is one of those deeply unsatisfied with life people because real life didn't miraculously serve him everything he ever wanted on a silver platter when he was still in high school. It starts with his unrequited love for his bets friend's girlfriend and we, the readers, have to endure his endless monologues about how much better for her he is and how she should have picked him. Once upon a time he read a book about a fictional world called Fillory and the adventures a bunch of children had there (something like Narnia) and he got stuck there. We've all been there and wanted so much for a certain fictional world to be real and got obsessed with it but we mostly grew out of it. And if not that, then at least we're functional human beings (somewhat) that can deal with the real world when we need to. Quentin is incapable of moving on and as a result is incapable of functioning as part of society. He's always a third wheel, always wanting what he can't have. So far I can sympathize with him. As I said most of us have been there. But then he is given what anyone of us would die for. He was told that magic is real and that he is special enough that he can be part of that secret magical world. One would think that he would finally be happy, right? And for a while he seemed to be. And then he decided to sabotage himself. And that was the theme for the rest of the book. Every time he managed to achieve something, he then proceeded to destroy out of selfishness because it was no longer enough. Most of the book was him being apathetic and drinking. Oh and swearing just to feel grown up. You see I have no problem with swearing. In fact I swear like a sailor when the situation requires it. With Quentin and his "friends" (I'll explain the quotation marks in a second) it's forced. It's there because they think cool kids and adults talk like that and you can feel it when you read their dialogues. The people Quentin hangs out with can hardly be called his friends. He doesn't have a genuine human connection with any of them. But they bring out the worst in him and feed each other's drive towards self destruction. The only character I cared about was Alice because frankly she was the least childish one of the cast. But she had the bad taste to fall in love with Quentin who never sees what he has and proceeds to destroy the only human connection he has ever had. I felt bad for Alice from the start because Quentin never really appreciated her and eventually he screwed it up. But instead of growing a pair and accepting the consequences he managed to find a way to feel as if he is the one wronged. So to wrap up Quentin and his buddies are a waste of space, food and breathable air. They're lazy and incapable of handling life so they drown themselves in alcohol and pointless sex and when they get something good from they proceed to trash it because they feel they deserve more. And since (view spoiler)[ the only character I cared about died (hide spoiler)] I don't intend to continue with the series. I just don't care what happens with the spoiled brats.
1162489089	Let’s talk about what this book is not.It’s not Harry Potter; only Harry Potter is Harry Potter.It’s not an edgier Harry Potter for adults; that would be Jim Butcher’s Harry Dresden.It’s not The Catcher in the Rye; while Holden Caulfield, as is the wont of clever teenagers everywhere, realizes that the adult world is awash in hypocrisy and double-dealing and mercilessly judges everyone for it, even he doesn’t wallow in self-pity as much as The Magicians’ protagonist. And Holden doesn’t indulge in the same behavior he excoriates in others.So what is The Magicians? It’s C.S. Lewis’s The Chronicles of Narnia in an alternative universe where the travelers from our world are profanity-spewing, bawdy, badly behaving adults and there’s no Aslan — or probably God, for that matter. This isn’t a spoiler: Author Lev Grossman lets the reader in on Fillory, the un-Narnia, in the first few pages of this 400-plus-page tome. Unsurprisingly, I would have enjoyed The Magicians more had someone other than Quentin Coldwater — yes, that’s the actual name for a character that figuratively throws cold water on everything — not been our protagonist. The boy’s Eeyore from Winnie-the-Pooh — exhaustingly disappointed and carping, even though he’s had a great life so far and has now had his dream come true: the revelation that magic is real and that he’ll be making a living from it. As Eeyore Quentin himself recognizes in the novel’s first few pages:I should be happy, Quentin thought. I’m young and alive and healthy. I have good friends. I have two reasonably intact parents — viz., Dad, an editor of medical textbooks, and Mom, a commercial illustrator with ambitions, thwarted, of being a painter. I am a solid member of the middle-middle class. My GPA is a number higher than most people even realize it is possible for a GPA to be.But why would having every advantage in life and then being selected to attend a secret magical college — which every kid alive would give an arm for — be any reason not to sing, “Poor, poor pitiful me”?After Quentin’s acceptance to Brakehills College for Magical Pedagogy (a Hogwarts college of sorts), I really thought that Quentin had finally found where he belonged. He makes some friends, becomes an excellent magician (natch!), and even develops a romance. Does that stop him from being Debbie Downer? You’re joking, right? This is Quentin!About 65 percent into the book, we (view spoiler)[return to the Fillory that’s promised in the book’s first few pages (hide spoiler)], which improved the book; however, by then, I loathed Quentin and most of his pals so much that I really didn’t care, and Quentin, if anything, became even more obnoxious. Also, the first 65 percent (11 hours of this 17-hour book on Audible that I’ll never get back) proved such a slog that there’s absolutely no way I’ll ever tackle the sequel. Actually, if I hadn’t been reading The Magicians as a buddy read, I never, ever would have even lasted to that 65 percent mark when the book became bearable. I realize that I’m being as much of a curmudgeon as Quentin Coldwater, but that’s fitting, isn’t it?
339329586	What others have described as "paying tribute" to fantasy classics, I see as trying to cash in on the ideas of other, far better writers. There is so much in this book that is just blatant plagiarism - it's almost amusing. I might not be quite so irritated by this if it were actually a good book - but alas... I can't think of a single redeeming quality. Initially, the book caught my attention when someone described it as "Harry Potter for adults". Unfortunately, this didn't mean that it was more intellectually stimulating, as I was hoping. It simply meant that the author decided to litter it with pointless vulgarity and sex which did nothing to advance the plot. Instead, it just served to show what a poor writer Lev Grossman is. It reminds me of a low-budget indie movie that is filled with gratuitous nudity to make up for the lack of good acting and a good plot.Outside of all that, it's also a very dry read, with an exceedingly disappointing ending. If this review is not enough to convince you to look elsewhere, then at least do yourself a favor and get it from the public library. You will regret spending money on this book!
1862123983	I am going to have to disagree with GR average rating here. For whatever reason this book spoke to me. I absolutely loved it. What caught me off guard is how not everyone absolutely loved it. I’ve combed through a bunch of different star reviews and opinions are very polarizing. It almost seems like people read all sorts of different books.One of the 1 stars even said that he felt he was surrounded by lovecraftian creatures in human skin, referring to 5 Star raters. It made me giggle, since you know, I’m going to be a 5 Star reviewer after I touch the Done section. Here are my thoughts. Characters: 5Personally I think whoever came up with the advertising slogan, calling this book an adult Harry Potter must not have actually read the book at all. This book and its characters are nothing like Harry Potter. Sure there is a magical school, but that’s where the similarities end. I think that comparison simply upset lots of HP fans once they flipped a few pages and screamed out in rage. The characters in this story are full of angst, they feel misplaced in this world, like they do not belong, like life has no meaning. Quentin, the main character is all of that, cranked up to 11. He’s annoying beyond belief. There were plenty of times when I wanted to reach inside the book and slap him. All his friends are no better. In fact, what makes a magician good is precisely those feelings we usually perceive as negative. What I find particularly refreshing is that Grossman chose to make them that way. It’s refreshing. It’s different. It we want to talk HP, pretend Draco and Snape are two main protagonists in the series. Now, how would that make you feel? For me, I’d be delighted.Plot: 5I did not know what to really expect here, so the plot really took me on all sorts of thrilling ride. Word of caution, this book, by all modern fantasy standards is pretty slow. The point is not the fast pace and explosions, but immersion in the unrealistic but yet real world of wizards living among us. Is fed my oldest fantasy of pretending magic is real alongside Quentin. (Or maybe not pretending but believing is a better word here). I was curious to relive college years with all the booze and the the unimportant now but super important struggles back then. Then about 3/4 of the way in it exploded, and I couldn’t put it down. Falling asleep with the book on my face and al that jazz. Loved it. Setting: 5Let me tell you, this is probably the most beautiful writing I have seen in any fantasy or any other genre fiction for that matter, I’ve read thus far. It felt like I was reading a luscious literary work of fiction. Think about that feeling when you take a bite of a nice ice cream cake (pick your fav flavor here), and enjoy the sense of euphoria as it melts in your mouth. That’s how my brain felt the whole time I was reading. It was delicious sentence after sentence and I reread quite a few many times over to savor the flavor. Now, to switch gears back to the beginning;: what the advertisers should have done is to call this a Narnia for grown ups instead of HP. Narnia is a much more accurate description of this story. As a matter of fact, I will go as far as strongly suggest that you re read Narnia, before picking this up. Particularly “The Magician’s Nephew” and “Lion, Witch and Wardrobe”. I re read all 7 of them. It was glorious. Parallels are undeniable. I still wonder if they explored the pool more in Narnia series, would they have made it to the Magicians version of reality and vice versa. Well I guess they did, so the answer to that question would be a yes. Overall from the slow paced school story, and angst about life in general to unexpected twists and a last 50 pages that made my jaw drop, I thought Grossman nailed the setting much like he nailed this whole book. Thank You.I will definitely be reading Part 2. Highly recommended.Roman “ Ragnar”
1543243567	Before you read this review you should know something. I haven't read Harry Potter. Not even the first one. I haven't even seen the films. This gap (some would say 'planet sundering chasm') in my pop cultural awareness may partly explain why I really liked the start of this book. The Magicians begins with a gifted kid (Quentin Coldwater) travelling via a strange portal to a mysterious school where he is taught to wield arcane magical energies. You’re probably yawning already, having seen the same thing done damn well over a decade ago, but it was all new to me and I dug it. The first half of the book is a nice blend of secret occult organisations, hyper-smart teens balancing magic with a host of normal adolescent issues and a number of pacey sequences, including one where Quentin traverses Antarctica butt-naked, with only spells and a jar of sheep fat to keep him alive. I had some serious magic envy by this chapter, but alas, my enjoyment didn’t last. By about midway the story, which creaks a few times early on under the burden of Quentin’s angst, self-loathing and general joylessness, starts to crumble as his douchiness gets turned up to eleven. Quentin is the kind of person who can’t crack a consistent smile despite being able to chuck magical fireballs around and soar like a bird on a whim. If magic was powered by ennui he’d be greater than Gandalf, and I felt like slapping him throughout most of the book. Self-loathing, arsehole-y characters can be both powerful and compelling - see John Self in Martin Amis’ Money and everyone in Trainspotting - but Grossman got the mix wrong for me here and I came away thinking that if Quentin was one of my buddies, I’d be avoiding his maudlin, angsty phonecalls.Despite this, I was still generally enjoying things, at least until Quentin and his friends graduate from Magic High. From there a heavily foreshadowed (forget fifty-foot letters, we’re talking skyscraper sized words here, lit with spotlights strong enough to give you skin cancer) journey to a fantastical fantasy land occurs, complete with a guardian animal god/spirit (a sheep rather than the default Lion) in need of help to defeat a Mighty Evil. It was at this point that the itch to read something else began to creep across me, and bloody-mindedly flogging myself on I trudged through to the somewhat cheesy and sequel primed ending. Despite all this, I didn’t hate The Magicians. There are some memorable sequences, it flows well, and the first half is pretty good, but after spending an entire book with Quentin Coldwater I'm going to pass on the rest of Grossman’s trilogy. If I need another hit of Magic Schoolkids vs Mighty Evil I’ll try Harry Potter.
97909871	Okay, this was a bizarre book for me. It was like 5th year Harry Potter (Order of the Phoenix - whiny, pissy, poor-me, want to punch him in the throat every time he spoke) goes to magical college. Drinks a lot, does drugs, has sex. And then goes to Narnia. There were parts of it that I really liked (mostly while they were in the Narnia-ish part) but mostly it was odd. And the characters were really hard to like.
171990640	1 1/2Where to start? Some people don't see to like this book because it's too bleak and depressing. Not depressing in a truly sad kind of way, more just the depressing of disappointment. Others don't like it because of the drugs, sex, cursing and copious alcoholic consumption. I think that both of these things are definitely there, but that they're realistic in the context of the story we're being told. However, realism is not quite the same as sympathetic - and herein lies my main problem. I just didn't like Quentin. He's completely self-centered, irresponsible, whiney - and he never learns anything.I sympathized more with him in the beginning - (view spoiler)[being bright in his class, and being ostracized for it. Having distant and casually neglectful parents. His desire to escape from his life and find his "real life", one full of magic and wonder... one which would make everything better. I had my moments, especially in my disaffected adolescence. Hell, I still wish that Hogwarts and that whole world were real.But the major problem with Quentin is that he never grows up. There's really not much character development or growth, (though I suppose there is character decline). And this, to me, is the really disappointing and frustrating part.Now, I don't think that the book is promoting the bleak, "life sucks and then you die" worldview that Quentin has and develops into an art. I think that Alice is actually the moral lesson of the story - that you can choose to be miserable. That no outside force and circumstance will make your life perfect, that you have to make the most of what you have. That you have to try and be happier within yourself.Or, as the axiom goes, where you go - there you are.And Quentin has moments of 'getting it'. But every time I would see a ray of light through Quentin's rain cloud, every time I started to sympathize with him again, or have hope for him, he would backslide and retreat into his usual patterns of looking outside himself, of blaming everyone and everything - and even when he blamed himself he never learned anything from it, he would just become self-destructive.And, hey, along with my moments of wishing for something more than this world, I've had more than my fair share of self-destructive moments, too - but you live and learn.As I said, Quentin never learns. (hide spoiler)]Now, maybe I'm being too hard on him. He is in his late teens and early twenties for most of the book, and I guess his inability to cope and his slide into hedonism is "normal" for some (a lot?) of people that age. I went through my existential angst in other ways, but, I knew plenty of people who went that way. (Of course, I never particularly liked them, either.)And this is, apparently, the start of a series, so maybe Quentin will grow in future books.But in just this book, I didn't like him, or most of the rest of the characters, and because I didn't really like them, I found myself not caring about what was going to happen. And so I was mostly just bored. It reads like a character story, not a plot story, and there's large swatches where not much is going on - and it's hard to read a character story when you don't like the character and when he doesnt' seem to really change much throughout the book. Thus the boredom.Well, bored at times, frustrated and annoyed at other times. But I never once felt like I was truly enjoying it, and I don't feel like I learned or got anything out of having read it - so it fails both as entertainment and as allegory.Some people say this reads like an R-rated YA book. That it's target audience seems to be people of the same age and circumstances of the protagonist. At first I disagreed with this, but the more I think about it the more I think maybe they're correct. Perhaps if I had read this when I was younger, knee-deep in my own existential crises, perhaps then I would've enjoyed it more or gotten more out of it.As it stands, in the here and now, I just didn't really like it all that much. I would almost be tempted to rate it 1-star but it wasn't all bad, and it does have it's moments, so 2-stars it is.
5558500189	A depressed boy version of Hermione Granger discovers Narnia. This book felt like a fever dream. I have never taken recreational drugs, but I felt like I was high the entire time I was reading this. Quentin is a genius deeply unsatisfied and unhappy with his life. He dreams of more. Then one day he is thrust unexpectedly into an Examination for the Brakebills College for Magical Pedagogy. There is no way to study for it and there are only two possible grades, Pass and Fail.I liked that the author made such an effort to demonstrate that magic wasn’t easy. It wasn’t a case of discovering you were special and then you could wave a wand and then ta-da.Here, spellcasting consists of very precise hand gestures accompanied by incantations and had to be modified to agree with the time of day, the phase of the moon, the intention and purpose and precise circumstances of its casting, and a hundred other factors. Despite always being the smartest in the room, Quentin finds himself amongst other similar geniuses, each trying desperately to stay afloat. It’s a very adult version of Harry Potter. Speaking of, I enjoyed the references to Harry Potter and other contemporary examples which puts Quentin’s experience and the reality of magic in perspective. It was also fascinating to see how Quentin shed his old life and identity as he settled into Brakebills, so that Real life or was it fantasy life? whichever one Brakebills was— that was what mattered, and that was happening somewhere else.Despite discovering there is more to the world like he always dreamt of, Quentin remains unhappy. There is no magical war to be fought, no great evil to be vanquished, and without that everything else seemed so mundane and pointless. I think the reason I enjoyed this so much is that I resonated with Quentin. All readers on some level do. We still believe, dream, hope for MORE. For an alternative. For magic. ”I think you're magicians because you're unhappy. A magician is strong because he feels pain. He feels the difference between what the world is and what he would make of it.”There were some problematic things.Quentin is self-sabotaging, pessimistic, and continuously depressed. There’s also fat shaming, deformity shaming, etc. Not to mention, every woman is described according to her breast size and beauty. There is also Christianity bashing. Yet, I say this with the caveat that a lot of books writing in this kind of darker tone and genre do tend to include these things. I’m not saying that makes it right (indeed it’s an immediate ick for me), but I do recognise it’s not uncommon. The first half and the second half almost seem like different sprites. A book one and then subsequent books, and that is how it is laid out in the book.Book I was definitely a four stars, however Book II etc. reinforced how utterly abysmal Quentin is in his actions and thoughts and justifications. Seemingly, magic does corrupt. ”You don't just go on fun adventures for good causes and have happy endings. You're not going to be a character in a story, there's nobody arranging everything for you. The real world just doesn't work like that."I still don’t understand the overwhelmingly negative reviews, whilst I do appreciate some of the criticisms.Overall, I am glad I read this, and I think I would recommend it to others, so long as they know what they’re getting. The first half was four stars, and the second half three stars!🌟 Bookstagram
1687625780	*4.75 starsThis book came so close to a 5 star read for me! I found my attention wandering just a bit in the middle of the book, but besides that I was totally unprepared for the complexity, the scope and richness of themes tackled in this book and the depth of character development in this novel considering the mediocre or negative reviews I have read. Many reviews have criticized the characters for being unlikeable. I suppose I can see that, but to me they were more real that most characters I read about, especially for a fantasy book. They were raw, screwed up, all over the place, emotional, and at times catty and mean with each other, but that's how real people are! They learned and grew throughout the book. They changed their opinions of how they felt about the world as they grew older and had more life experiences. And, for the most part, I found myself feeling those things right along with them. While this is classified as a fantasy book, and there are a lot of fantastical elements-clearly the fact that the book takes place in a magical college and the characters jump into another world and fight magical creatures qualifies it as fantasy- it still reads more like literary fiction to me. And I think this is why many fantasy readers might have been taken aback and been unsettled while reading it.It's not written as a typical fantasy book, and I don't think it's meant to be read as one either. At it's heart, the book is about growing up. It's about how our fantasy of what we will be when we grow up and what the world will be like when we have the adult power to control our own lives are often crushed once we get there. It's about seeking happiness and contentment by pursuing things outside of ourselves instead of loving the person we are. It's about learning how to deal with changing and intense emotions in a mature way and how selfishness and self-centeredness and hiding your feelings always lead to heart break. This is not Harry Potter or Narnia. It never was written to be like these stories either. It may spoof those stories, but only to point to the problems and issues that never addressed in children's books. This book is dark, intense and real. And I have a feeling I'll probably be just as impressed with the second book in the series, too.
948878436	Think Harry Potter written by a modern day S.E. Hinton, set in Narnia, & stuffed into one book. Kind of a wild mix & very well done. There's frank discussion of sex, drugs/drinking, & an unhealthy dose of ennui all leading to some hard, practical life experience. It's more 'real', for lack of a better term, than a normal YA fantasy yet is a coming of age story that certainly fit me (if I had magical powers) better than the popular pristine series.Wow!The characters are typical outsider teens, geeks & nerds, who find out they can do magic. It's not easy, though. In fact, it's very difficult, boring, & takes an amazing amount of rote memorization. Add in all the typical teenage hormonal crap. Ugh! A recipe for disaster!!! And plenty happen & don't. Pretty amazing.This was very well read & certainly engaging. I don't know why I'm not giving it 5 stars & I'm not sure I really want to read the next book. Maybe I'll figure it out later. In the meantime, I highly recommend it.
2289877523	This is a re-read and I didn't realize this book was so polarizing until I looked up the reviews this time around.I personally really enjoyed this, perhaps even more so this time around. I love books set in magical schools, but even if you don't, all of the schooling in this book takes part in the first half and everything after that is about wizards/magicians in the real world which I find incredibly interesting.I think its fair to say that the characters (specifically the main character Quentin) are fairly unlikeable but I think that's kind of the intention. I'll definitely be re-reading the rest of the series
