3330430589	This is, by far, the most disappointed I’ve ever been when it came to a book.Not just with the book itself, but with how many people decided to ignore the racism taking place in it.I’ve had this novel praised to me so many times that I idolized it for years before I even bought it. I was so scared that I wouldn’t like it that I kept waiting to be in “the right mind-set” before I decided to finally pick it up.About a quarter into the book I had already encountered not one, but 3 racist comments made by Esther (the main character). And I was so surprised that no one ever mentioned this to me that I had to stop reading, go on goodreads and look at the reviews to see if anyone was addressing it, and nothing.So I told myself I was reading too much into it and kept on reading, and by the 4th comment I was starting to lose it.So I went online and looked it up, and the only thing that turned up was a personal blog and a goodreads thread that mostly blamed the racism on “the time the novel was written in”, to which I would just like to say, and pardon my french, that’s complete and utter bullshit.This book was written in the 60s! The NINETEEN-60s!! in. the. middle. of. the. civil. rights. movement.And I’m not saying racism didn’t exist back then, hell, that’s what the whole movement was about. And I get that people weren’t “woke”, and that using certain slang was normal back then, BUT I could name at least a dozen writers who didn’t feel the need to be racist while writing from (what we all know is) their personal pov. Hell, I could name novels published in the 19th fucking century that advocated against racism. Sylvia could’ve at least picked up ONE of those during her lifetime, jfc.I’m not just speaking about the 5+ times she used the n word, it’s not my place to say whether that was wrong or not. I’m talking about the explicit racist comments (against more races than one, if I may add) that made me want to drench this book in gasoline, light it on fire then flush it down the fucking toilet: • In one part, Esther Greenwood describes her reflection as "a big, smudgy-eyed Chinese woman staring idiotically into my face," • In another she says: “the face in the mirror looks like a sick Indian" • At one point she calls indigenous Mexicans ugly and says things like "dusky as a bleached-blonde negress" • In a scene where Esther is being served dinner while in the mental health institute. The man serving her is described as a stupid, laughing, indolent Black man with huge, rolling eyes, a racist trope made popular with books like "The Story of Little Black Sambo," which was published in 1898. During this scene, the man commits the “offense” of serving two types of beans for dinner, and Esther punishes him for it by kicking him. • When Esther’s friend is telling her about a guy she’s interested in, who happens to be from Peru, Esther replies with: “they're squat…they're ugly as Aztecs."All of that being said, I think I should mention that: a/ the writing was actually pretty decent b/ I am not going to ignore the awareness it brought around mental health for so many years. But, if that’s the only reason you’re reading this, then I suggest you check out Girl, Interrupted instead, it’s equally as representative (if not more/better) of mental health, based on Susanna Kaysen’s real life (it’s more of a memoir-ish type), it includes plenty of documents and notes from her time in a mental health institute, and, most importantly, it isn’t problematic.
1507334	There are many who have read The Bell Jar and absolutely loved it. I am gladly considering myself one of them. I was a little caught of guard when I read a few reviews of The Bell Jar comparing it to The Catcher in the Rye stating how it's the female version of it. I liked Catcher but I know there are many people who didn't and upon hearing that may be similar to Catcher not have the desire to read it. I assure you, The Bell Jar is a book all on it's own and should not be compared to any other book... even as a compliment.When I first started reading the book I was a little put off, feeling it was an extremely pretensious novel. Her descriptions were crisp and precise, often using words that one rarely hears spoken or even read. I went into the novel knowing that Plath was a poet and felt that at first the book was just another form of her poetry and her showing off her writing abilities. But that only remained within the first two pages, because after that I became absorbed. The writing that I was a little sketchy about at first helped me visualize the setting and get to know the characters. And though Plath never really described many characters as to their personality, I began to feel I knew them all intimately.Strangely enough, if you remember in my last review, what bothered me most about The Good Earth did not bother me in The Bell Jar. Because the Esther, the character we are following, is slowly descending into madness, time no longer matters. There are a few times I was confused about the timeline, but it did not upset me. The book really spoke to me because of my own personal experiences with depression and suicide. It spoke to me as a woman and my views on sex and the confusion I'm sure most other girls out there face. It's amazing that this book was written and published over 30 years ago, really, when a new woman was coming out into the world. I have a feeling that this book helped women realize that they're not alone, and brought things to light that most people have commonly shoved aside; women and men. But what else is amazing is how relevant these topics still are today. Specifically with suicide, and specifically about the virtue and pureness of women compared to men.So I guess that is why The Bell Jar is often compared to The Catcher in the Rye, with it's discussions and writings of often controversial titles. Setting off a new generation of writers, styles, and people. Another book also came to mind as I was reading, and that was The Perks of Being a Wallflower. There are moments when I could make a few direct comparisons between the two. With Esther slowly seperating herself from socialization and sinking deeper into her own thoughts and depression. Analyzing things that go on around her and her surroundings. Very reminscent of Perks.If you feel you're suffering from depression, madness, confusion about topics pertaining to society and sex, or just looking for a good read, The Bell Jar is definetly the book for you. I also advise, if you're seriously suffering from depression, to get help for yourself. There is no shame in it, and getting help is better than ending your life. Even if you need to go on medication, DO NOT feel ashamed, especially if it's going to help you even more.
1562317381	i did not know that if you're mentally ill you're allowed to be mean and annoying. i wish i had done things differently.i do get why this is a classic. some reasons it is, in order of niceness to not niceness: -it is very beautifully written-that fig paragraph is probably one of the best passages on what it is to be a mentally ill young woman ever brought into this world-it is, in many ways, ahead of its time-sylvia plath has the kind of compelling story that would have sealed her canonical fate whether she was talented or not.-and:this is often, as it was in my case, assigned reading for teenage girls, the people most likely to be willing to undergo the kind of self-centering it would take to think most of what's depicted in this book is an okay or acceptable way to be.when i first read this, i liked it. i was 18, it should be noted, and a senior in high school fresh off the then-worst year of my life. (it has since been soundly defeated.) anyway, i didn't know classic fiction could be like this: written by a woman, fresh and relatable, about someone like me.that wasn't my experience upon reread.in the intervening years, i've read some of plath's poetry in other classes, and found it a little gaudy and self-indulgent for my taste. (you can yell at me if you want to but i don't think either of those are untrue. or even really insults.) so i always wondered if the bell jar would hold up if i read it again.the answer: no, but not for any reason i expected!this is racist and homophobic as f*ck. it's genuinely disturbing. this was written in the second half of the 20th century, in the midst of the civil rights movement. the march on washington took place in the same year as this book's publication. among legitimate intellectual and/or progressive circles of the time, this manner of thinking is grotesquely out of line. it seems especially absurd in the face of plath's dogged dedication to the Rights Of Women. feminism is important, of course, but reading about how the greatest social issue in plath's eyes (or the eyes of plath's self-insert protagonist) was women being able to be writers and editors with as much ease as they could be secretaries (as opposed to the several editors and writers there were) is kind of insane. obviously employment access is crucial, but the lack of self-awareness is apparent, no?this also has two of my least favorite clichéd traits of mental health depiction:1) a protagonist that blames everyone else for their mental illness, and2) Grand Gestures Of Depression.baby, i wish my mental illness included me doing things like whimsically throwing shirts at the city of new york while my hair blew in the wind. it's usually a lot more of me laying in bed and watching tiktoks.i guess that doesn't fit the seminal work criteria.in short: i love unlikable protagonists. it's just that i hated this one.bottom line: we all have an unpopular opinion, right? a beloved book we hate? let me have this one in peace.--------------------currently-reading updatesrereading this on the beach so i can be the edgiest girl there
669285	there once was a girl from the bay statewho tried to read finnegan's wake.it made her so ill,she took loads of pills.james joyce has that knack to frustrate.come to my blog!
1882270703	“To the person in the bell jar, blank and stopped as a dead baby, the world itself is a bad dream.”It had been a number of years since I last read Sylvia Plath’s The Bell Jar. What I’d remembered most was how well Plath had established the mood for this story by weaving the electrocutions of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg with the mental breakdown of her heroine, Esther Greenwood. But the story is definitely about Esther, her ambition, and her own feelings of inadequacy, even though (viewed from the outside) Esther would be seen as a success. What is amazing about this writing is its immersive quality; you feel Esther’s restrictive choices and alienation from her world because you ultimately realize the world she has been striving for was never in her grasp. The repeated questions (after she is being treated for her depression) about who will marry her now only reinforce the notion that for the intelligent and talented Esther Greenwood, there had never been a good way to extricate herself from a trap that she had always seen coming. Very compelling narrative!
2652495347	I hated almost everything about this book. There are 2 good quotes but so much racism, fatphobia and I apparently DNFed it before the homophobia started. I don't get the hype at all.It made it to my worst books of 2024: https://youtu.be/8-WrZCY8qfo?si=GOv_n...
20409771	I only had to read it once. I never read it for or with pleasure. I prefer childbirth.
4324549593	Addictive Yet HauntingThis book actually leaves me speechless. The prose. The storytelling. The metaphors.And I found myself holding my breath.The Bell Jar reads like a very interesting diary. It feels real – as though you are experiencing the story. One of the reasons that it feels real is that the story is real. Sylvia Plath is the main character, Esther.Which makes this work all the more chilling.The Bell Jar centers on Esther Greenwood, a bright college student in 1953. She wins a trip to New York where she encounters an entirely new set of experiences and describes the other women as almost an entirely new species.Esther is an imperfect character but entirely relatable. She talks about being unsure how and when to tip, describing how the bellhop carried her bag to her room and proceeded to explain about hot and cold water, waiting for a tip.When Esther returns home, she is limited by her economics and the expectations that society has of her gender. She doesn’t want to just become some man’s wife. She becomes lost, adrift, and begins her mental health journey. The metaphor of the Bell Jar, life being shocking. That is a metaphor that I would like to sit with for a while.2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango
1139459373	My dad went mad in the early seventies when my mom filed for divorce and took up with another man after 12 yrs of marriage. He ended up in a place called Glenn Eden here in Michigan and went through a dozen or more electric shock treatments, I remember visiting him through a window from outside the place. He eventually recovered and remarried, led a normal life, but this book was kind of frightening to me, remembering that time, the atmosphere of such a place, and the stigma of mental illness.I myself suffer and am on meds, but never have I felt suicidal, I just don’t understand that frame of mind. Esther (Sylvia), I identified with her on some of her feelings, she was quite humorous, and I am sure that in the 50’s, it was very hard to live with such terrible depression. The writing was so good, I was feeling her. Hard to read knowing what eventually happened to her, but I’m glad I finally did read it. I’m sure many of us at times feel we are stuck under the bell jar.
3394223462	“because wherever I sat—on the deck of a ship or at a street café in Paris or Bangkok—I would be sitting under the same glass bell jar, stewing in my own sour air.”― Sylvia Plath, The Bell Jar4.5 to 5 starsThis was a very powerful and only partially fictional tale from Sylvia Plath. Perhaps the genre should be called autobiographical fiction (is that already a thing?). Because of this, I was very glad that the book included a short biography of Plath at the end to compare her life experiences and her experiences with writing it to the final product. While now it might only seem somewhat shocking and controversial, at the time I am sure it was a book that people may have had to sneak so that others did not realize they were reading it.The first half focused a lot on the main character’s (Esther, and therefore Plath’s) experience with the questionable behavior of men in her life. I believe what she deals with is what would now be called “toxic masculinity”. The men she meets just treat her so very wrong and they don’t even realize it. It’s as if she is not even a person, just a personality-less flesh puppet to ply with drinks and “mansplain” things to. For those who watch the show Mad Men, I was reminded of the characters Peggy and Joan in the first few seasons who are trying to breakthrough to do the work the men do but are often talked down to as they are expected to be secretaries and housewives. I imagine if a traditional “manly man” in the 60s found his wife reading this he would have likely done something drastically inappropriate to her and thought nothing of it.The second half of the book deals with depression, mental decay, and suicide. I felt so bad for Esther. She had issues, she needed help, and the help she received was so wildly inappropriate, it was infuriating. I was reminded of stories and movies from and set in that time period (Rosemary Kennedy and Angelina Jolie’s character in the Movie Changeling to name a couple) where the answer to a woman experiencing mental struggles in the 50s and 60s might be to nonchalantly toss them into a sanatorium or have them lobotomized. Men who had the same issues were not treated the same, even some that were truly mentally disturbed, while a woman battling with what might have only been mild depression or manic behavior might find themselves locked away and receiving shock treatment. If this part of the book doesn’t get you riled up, I would be surprised!It should be very telling that Plath originally released this under a pseudonym because she was afraid of the response she would receive. If you have to hide reality behind a fake name and fictionalization, then I think that proves there is something very wrong with reality.The Bell Jar is a must read. Some of the content may be hard to swallow, but it is a very powerful statement that will help humanity learn from its mistakes and avoid repeating them.
2890367089	The Bell Jar tells us the story of Esther Greenwood, a woman from Boston who comes to live in New York City. Sylvia Plath wrote this novel under the pseudonym Victor Lucas. The author passed away one month after this book was published. The public was eager to find the similarities between Esther Greenwood and Ms. Plath at that time. Esther's depression and mental breakdown, electroconvulsive therapy, and suicide attempt are all shrewdly depicted by the author. There are multiple instances where the author sharply criticizes the patriarchal society in America at that time. The search for feminine independence is portrayed brilliantly with the help of the extraordinary narrative style. This is one of the best semi-autobiographical novels that I have read. “The silence depressed me. It wasn't the silence of silence. It was my own silence."
4828707377	why did she kick that black man and then call him a negro????? bc Sylvia used the word negro so many times i was like damn did i accidentally pick up a stephen king novel?? anyways liked the topics of the madonna complex even though that term wasn’t coined then. i just found this book boring ngl
3450874955	***Accurate representation of mental health/major clinical depression***I was just watching the character like a silent spectator as if I was her shadow following her everywhere and her every thought.She didn't let me think about anything else but just observe her and let me get more involved in what she was getting into.I was the one struggling here to actually let her know I was there while she was just struggling trying hard to accept and come out of what she was going through.Help, treatment, support and care she got and she was accepting it but me and her, we knew it wasn't easy.She's someone you want to love but she's someone you would love to not like. She was very judgemental at times and negative and unapologetic but I just had to be there for her.Mental health discussionDepression.Suicidal thoughts.Suicide attempts.Painful treatments (during those times).These were represented so well. An almost autobiographical fiction of the author. I liked how it ended 💯I was wondering this whole time what I could have done to help her. And you know what I was clueless. Like the doctors, her friends and her family. It's not just talking about it or taking treatments. It's much more than that. It's so difficult to get out of it. All I ever wanted her to know was I could understand what she was going through.
4051691614	i kept putting off this book, because i’m not really into classics, and i thought it would be super banal, but i was pleasantly surprised at how invested i became in esther’s story. i believe the bell jar’s cultural stronghold is well deserved, as it was truly ahead of its time. it contains excellent themes of gender roles, existentialism, and psychiatric treatment (particularly the barbaric and apathetic practices of the 1950s). it’s interesting to read early “feminist” works, since we’ve come such a long way that a book like this would seem rudimentary in the grand scheme of feminist lore. i found myself relating to this book quite a lot, and it made me extremely contemplative. the beginning is pretty boring, as well as the end, but the really deep stuff lies in the middle. like most classics, this book has a handful of racist moments, and i’m glad that we live in a world that now denounces ignorance in literature. the bell jar felt almost eerie to read because of the context in relation to the life and death of sylvia plath—the book is mostly autobiographical, and she killed herself just one month after its publication. this novel helped catalyze the larger conversation surrounding mental health and feminism, which in my opinion, makes it worthy of a read and of its praise.
3560682976	While I respect Plath for shaking up the literary world, I can’t just slap a “feminist icon” label on her without acknowledging the seriously problematic bits.I understand everyone has different perspectives on separating the art from the artist, and reading is a personal journey so you do you. For me, in the case of The Bell Jar, the racism was so overt and glaring that it kinda ruined what might have been a beautiful poignant book.“I looked as yellow as a Chinaman.”“...I noticed a big, smudgy-eyed Chinese woman staring idiotically into my face. It was only me of course.”“He’s from Peru.” “They’re squat,” I said. “They’re ugly as Aztecs.”“Usually it was a shrunken old white man that brought our food but today it was a negro.... The negro kept grinning and chuckling in a silly way.”“I drew my foot back and gave him [the “negro”] a sharp hard kick on the calf of his leg.”While this semi autobiographical fiction has moments of beauty and insight into mental health, I have a problem with the main character physically assaulting a Black man for serving her two varieties of beans and her general dehumanising attitude and depictions on minorities throughout this book. These aren’t just "product of their time" slip-ups; they’re the author’s not-so-charming worldviews creeping into the story, adding zero value and a whole lot of cringe. I get that some folks can still enjoy this despite its flaws, but unfortunately, that’s not the case for me.
1459872693	I'm really struggling with writing a review for this one, given the unique nature of the book and the sad reality that surrounds it. Every book is a testament of its author in one way or another, but with this semi-fictional autobiography it's difficult not to equate the book with its tragic author, making the reviewing of it an exercise in the kind of delicacy I'm not very well versed in. A delicacy that, frankly, I don't really enjoy employing. So what is one to do when he didn't really like "The Bell Jar"? Tread very carefully through the thorny bushes, knowing many in the Goodreads populace have a special place in their heart for this sensitive book. I decided on a respectful three-star rating even though my less delicate self would probably give it only two. It gets three because of its importance, because of its needing to be heard, but my heart of hearts doesn't care all that much about importance. It cares about being lifted up while this story mainly seemed to try and drag it down. I called this book an "autobiography", but with the important difference that autobiographies put the emphasis on a life fully lived, while in this book life seems pretty empty and the story was mostly about reasons for and ways of ending it. This book reads very much like a cry for help, and cries for help don't generally make for pleasant reading. The fact I felt useless as I heard that cry, the dread that comes with seeing a person consumed by fires I can't put out and other such merry sentiments make it hard for me to say I enjoyed this book. Everybody who reads this classic also knows about the tragic fate of the author, making the cry for help all the more chilling and making it akin to the reading of an elaborate suicide note. In short: I'd be surprised if this makes it on any "best beach reads" lists. I realise that even if this isn't a pleasant read that doesn't mean that it's not a good read, or a meaningful one, so let me elaborate on my mediocre rating for a book so highly praised by many others. I normally don't go for books dealing with depression, telling of a darkness with which I'm unfamiliar and quite uncomfortable, but reading is also about getting outside of your comfort zone. Also, I've got a severe gender inequality problem going on in my 2016 reading list and this book, hailed as an important womanly novel, caught my attention through promises of profundity and humor. The profound is there, in the intentions of the author to tell this deeply personal story, but I found most of the observations made in the book surprisingly superficial. The humor, while there in the earlier parts, felt like vinegar to a thirsty mouth. A perfectly enjoyable riff on the tipping system in New York in one of the earlier chapters gets a bitter taste by the end of the book, becoming a denouncement of one of the many things that are wrong with this world. Despite the lack of living up to what was promised, not all was bad with this book. Plath had the gift of prose, with elegant metaphors and the creation of immersive settings, evoking indelible images like of Esther sitting in the breezeway trying to write a book or a pair of boots pointing to the ocean. She's got a poetic stroke that mixes very well with her cynical side, resulting in a reading experience that was artistically and aesthetically pleasing. It's sad that this first novel is also her last, because the markings of true talents, with a lot of potential to be further developed, were clearly visible. I'm sad for Sylvia Plath and for everyone who shared and shares her plight. I have a great yet tender respect for her, writing this book, which must have cost her a tremendous effort given all the dark clouds in her heavy mind, trapped under a bell jar. But it was not for nothing, because as she was heaving up the bell jar with every word she wrote, trudging along with it in order to be heard, she created something that would make her message heard, then, now and far into the future. Go on, Sylvia Plath, and rest in peace. Your bell will keep resounding, maybe not on sunlit beaches, but definitely in your readers' hearts.
834494605	This is a disturbingly frightening journey through the mind of a young girl suffering from depression in the 1950's. How far we have come in the last few decades in recognizing depression as a mental illness and treating it with much less radical techniques than electric shock. Ester Greenwood is 19 and her future is just starting to unfold. Yet, day by day, she is questioning herself: her capabilities, her confidence, who she is, and what does it mean. Her thoughts turn dark and helplessness envelopes her in a tight, downward spiral. Plath captures the emotional characterization of depression and the utter helplessness that accompanies it. I truly felt like I was living this horror with her. 4+ ★
632065195	The Bell Jar is a disturbing and very powerful book chronicling an intelligent young woman's descent into depression and attempted suicide. It has always stood apart in Literature because of the way it closely mirrored the author's experiences.Knowing that the novel was published in 1971 I was puzzled to find that the prevailing attitudes, culture and mores seemed to date from an earlier time - at least a decade earlier. The main character, Esther, feels suffocated not only by her own feelings of inadequacy and incipient paranoia, but also by the crushingly mundane life she as a female would be expected to follow. Starting off as an intern on a fashion magazine was possibly one of the worst choices she could make, but at this time there were few realistic options.1950s, I thought, rather than late 60s? And it turns out that yes, it was published under a pseudonym in 1963, a few short months before Sylvia Plath's own suicide at the age of 29.A very chilling tale indeed. How can one doubt that she knew whereof she wrote.
5305834175	no <3
155153319	”I tried to smile, but my skin had gone stiff, like parchment.Then something bent down and took hold of me and shook me like the end of the world. Whee-ee-ee-ee-ee, it shrilled, through an air crackling with blue light, and with each flash a great jolt drubbed me till I thought my bones would break and the sap fly out of me like a split plant. I wondered what terrible thing it was that I had done.”This reminds me of this guy that used to go around the country talking about that moment in time when he hung in the air after jumping from the Golden Gate Bridge. He knew instantly that he’d made a terrible mistake and at that moment desperately wanted to live. When I worked in San Francisco and lived in Richmond, I would sometimes take the Golden Gate Bridge to work and the Bay Bridge on the way back home, to mix things up, or vice versa. Sometimes the traffic report would push me one way or another. After being trapped for three hours waiting for a jumper on Golden Gate to decide if he was really going to do it or finally climb back down, I became paranoid as to whether there would be a jumper every time I climbed into my Jeep to head home. I can remember people standing in groups, cupping their hands around their mouths, yelling for the man to jump. It was the indecision that was so inconvenient. I have to admit, even though it made my stomach sour, that I too wanted a resolution to this interruption in my life. I wanted to be home with my family, a good book, and a glass of wine. We are all capable of such selfish thoughts. I felt the same way at moments in this book. I thought to myself,...Just please get it over with. I can’t take this anymore. How could I possibly think that the loss of a few hours of my life was worth all the rest of someone else’s life? Of course, I don’t believe that when it is put in those stark of terms, but the wait for something to happen was/is nauseating as well. So Esther Greenwood has earned a scholarship to college. She is certainly smart and has come up with a snappy subject for her dissertation, if only she could get around to actually reading Finnegan’s Wake. She has a roommate, Doreen, whom she admires immensely. She seems so self-possessed and free from the burdens of expectations. ”Everything she said was like a secret voice speaking straight out of my own bones.”Esther is pretty enough, not the prettiest of girls, but pretty enough to attract the attention of boys, but of course, men prefer Doreen.There is that aura around Doreen that makes men want to break through that cool exterior to the tiger they can sense lurks beneath.There are hundreds of girls who would be jealous of Esther’s opportunities, but Esther will gladly trade her life for almost any life. The problem is, there is no escape from herself. There is a voice that is slowly turning all the rest of the natives in her head against her. ”If Mrs. Guinea had given me a ticket to Europe, or a round-the-world cruise, it wouldn’t have made one scrap of difference to me, because wherever I sat--on the deck of a ship or at a street cafe in Paris or Bangkok--I would be sitting under the same glass bell jar, stewing in my own sour air.” If only Esther can jump from a bridge and fall far enough, before hitting a safety net, to discover that suicide is not what she wants. What have I done?Of course, the poignancy of reading The Bell Jar is the fact that Sylvia Plath does attempt to kill herself in 1953 in a similar way as Esther does in the book. This may be a novel, but the autobiographical elements of the book make it as real as reading a memoir or Plath’s diary. The tragedy is, of course, that Sylvia, ten years later, does successfully end her own life, so I guess we know the ending of Esther’s life as well. "Blissfully succumbed to the whirling blackness that I honestly believed was eternal oblivion."--Sylvia Plath I kept wishing that Esther/Sylvia would work as diligently at finding a reason to live as she did scheming for a way to kill herself. I kept thinking about Anthony Bourdain, Virginia Woolf, and in particular David Foster Wallace; all had many people who admired them and loved them. We think one of the worst things on this planet is to be unloved and how being in that terrifying position would be a reason to be suicidal, but these chemical imbalances that people suffer from tilt the scales of their lives in the wrong direction. It doesn’t matter how much they are loved. I want to unroll the list of things Bourdian has loved and read them to him one by one to convince him that he has much to live for. I want to catch Woolf at the river, pull the rocks from her dress pockets and fling them into the water to sink without her. I want to cut the rope that is dangling from the rafters of Wallace’s house and watch him inhale that first precious gasp of air. I want to walk into Plath’s house in 1963 and turn off the gas and carry her out into the sunlight. Is that what they wanted? A miraculous intervention? Did they want the universe to insist that they live?This book is considered by many to be a masterpiece. The book is certainly unsettling, especially when the reader knows he is basically reading a 234 page suicide note. Wallace, I believe, wrote two pages. Woolf wrote a simple page, but a beautiful one. It is unclear whether Bourdain wrote a suicide note, but given his penchant for prose, I find it hard to believe that he didn’t. I can see how people who are struggling, especially those who are struggling silently, with their mental health would seek this book out. It does seem to help once people know they are not alone or even discover that their problems are not unusual. Does this book help or hinder someone’s own recovery? I don’t know the answer to that. I do think those people who have someone in their life who is grappling with mental health issues would possibly gain some insight into their loved one’s battle with their own mind by reading this book. For those who see the very best in life, it is sometimes difficult to understand why someone would want to kill themselves. When I feel a bit blue, there is always a book to pull from a shelf to take me somewhere else long enough to let the stormy weather in my mind subside. I feel very fortunate that I have discovered such an outlet for my happiness. The victim is not the only victim; suicides leave a lake of tears and recriminations in their wake. If you are suffering and are contemplating suicide, please do continue to search for a reason to live. There is something out there for you. Don’t be dangling in the air before you realize that you really do want to live. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten and an Instagram account https://www.instagram.com/jeffreykeeten/
865482258	Some of you may ask "What were you thinking, Mizuki? Why did you give The Bell Jar only two stars? Isn't this book like, a classic?"I am aware of the fact that Sylvia Plath is a famous poet and The Bell Jar is considered a classic, and I do agree that the writing is poetic and beautiful, the story is also very honest and realistic as well. In fact, Plath's writing and the first half of the book deserve four full stars; but sadly...everything took a nosedive when the heroine suffers a mental breakdown with depression.Here're a few things I'd like to clarify:(1) I understand how sucky and painful it is for a person to suffer depression and become mentally ill. (2) I understand how depressing it is to lose the scholarship you had dreamed of for the longest of time and realize that you are in fact not as special and extraordinary as you had always believed yourself to be.(3) I understand how depressing and suppressing it is for young women of the 1950s to have no way out aside from getting married, having kids and being housewives.(4) I do feel sorry that the main character embarrassed herself in New York when she was surrounded by people from the NY fashion scene and she didn't have a clue about how she was supposed to behave around people from the well respected circles. No one should be humiliated like this.(5) I do feel bad that the MC was later assaulted and beat by a guy, it's a horrible experience. But strangely enough, the MC seemed to burst this experience aside without further mention, whilst she kept moaning and whining about minor things.Still all the great writing and my understanding cannot cover for the insufferable main character, her constant whining and moaning, her complaining about everything and everyone around her.If The Bell Jar is a Young Adult novel, I would have long called the MC out on being such an ungrateful spoiled brat. My stomach was turning over and over with distaste when I read that the Mc's mother single-handedly raised her daughter after her husband passing away, still the MC hated her mother. Nothing the mother did and said could please her, NOTHING.Let's give you one more example:The MC's mother went to the asylum to visit her daughter, she brought her roses because it was her birthday; the mother kept begging her daughter to tell her what she had done so wrong in her childhood which caused her to end up in an asylum. The MC's reaction to this is: "I hate her."Bitch, please.I'm not saying the MC's mother is the Perfect Mom, she had her own shortcoming and she doesn't seem to understand what's going on in her daughter's mind. But hey, if you had to insist on hating your mother so much, at least give me some reasons, some explanation, some examples to see why your hatred is justified. Damn it!Not to mention said MC also thought poorly of her female companies/friends and her suitor. In her eyes, those who were in the same age group with her were all boring, shallow, stupid and inferior than her, and God forbid that those girls she met in New York be richer and more worldly than her! It's just unacceptable! Don't get me wrong, many of these girls are in fact vain and unlikable, but it doesn't look like they are all out to get the MC's blood. For God's sake!The great writing also cannot cover for the author's fault in engaging her main character with the readers. As beautiful the writing is and as realistic, vividly written and interesting the story (especially the MC's job in New York and the vanity of the NY fashion scene) is, I still cannot overlook the lack of feeling in the writing and the lack of reasons and explanation beyond characters' personalities and actions. For example, can we manage to see the reason why the MC hated her mother so very much? Nap.I do think it's a painfully honest and realistically, poetically written book, the feeling of pain, emptiness and alienation is beautifully expressed through the writing; and I suspect something has been lost in translation (I read the Chinese version of the book), but in the end I'm still disappointed, I especially don't enjoy how the story goes once the MC got a mental breakdown, after the breakdown, The Bell Jar loses much of its charm in my eyes and things get very, very sandy and boring. What a pity.Plus I honestly don't feel very sympathetic after finished reading the MC's story. Her story to me is more like a story about a girl who thinks she's SO SPECIAL because she's such a straight-A ideal student and she's so much SMARTER and BETTER than anyone her age; but then she goes to New York and realizes she isn't so very special because there are larger fishes in the sea and she meets a bunch of girls who are all from much richer families than hers. Her self-confidence goes to the toilet and eventually she gets a mental breakdown because she's so unhappy with her life. Full stop.It's not a YA, but sadly the story and its MC made me feel like I'm reading one.
4655305195	I dare you to read this and not get depressed
1895606711	it was fineher writing style is lovely and i really felt the whole ‘descending into madness’ was reflecting in the structure, but, i was a bit bored throughout apart from a few intense moments sprinkled along the wayi did see the feminist undertones which is nice from a book written in the 60s?? but that also meant the racism was rampant and not pleasant to read. overall, i think it’s overhyped by tiktok but one of the better “classics” i’ve read
1204151943	5★“I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story."If you are inclined to bouts of depression, find another book. If you've lived with or are fond of someone followed by the Black Dog, this describes the intensity of the feelings (and the treatment) well.Countless critics and reviewers have written about this sad 'memoir' (written as fiction and first published under a pseudonym) about depression, but it is also full of funny anecdotes and perfect insight into American East Coast college girls in the 1950s.Knowing that it’s autobiographical makes it more painful than usual to watch someone curl up in despair, feeling as if she’s been captured under a bell jar, suffocating. Being exceptionally smart, talented, popular and loved is no preventive against depression. She is driven to write, and when she isn’t driven, she fears she’ll never get that feeling again. Therapy, asylums, shock treatment, you name it, it's done to her.I’ve not read Plath’s poems, for which she is much lauded, but I liked the one that was included. I can’t help wondering if she’d lived a generation or two later if she’d have found anything that would have helped her better.Interestingly, to me, are the mentions of feeling some comfort being in a tiny crawl space or wedged between her mattress and the padded headboard. “It felt dark and safe under there, but the mattress was not heavy enough. It needed about a ton more weight to make me sleep.” This is reminiscent of Temple Grandin’s hug machine and the similar weights and aids that are used with people on the autism spectrum who may not tolerate real hugs but who crave the relief that pressure can give. There’s now a lot of information about these, but there wasn’t back then. Rooms with no windows feel safe to her, too.Her alter-ego is Esther, and this scene is when she had a month’s internship at the popular Ladies Day magazine. She’s gone there, thinking she’s always wanted to go to graduate school or study in Europe, become a professor and write. But when her boss calls her in and asks her point blank what she wants to do, Esther is astonished to hear herself reply: “'I don’t really know,' and I recognized it, the way you recognize some nondescript person that’s been hanging around your door for ages and then suddenly comes up and introduces himself as your real father and looks exactly like you, so you know he really is your father, and the person you thought all your life was your father is a sham.” This sort of thing that we might do ourselves and wonder idly about, has really thrown her. The fact that she gave father as an example is interesting, in that, her father died when she was very young, and she mentions later that she was never really happy after that. So for her to even contemplate as an example the idea of his being a sham tells us how startling she found her impulsive answer: “I don’t really know.” But there are so many funny anecdotes, that it’s not all heavy-going. She drank all the water (including the blossoms) in the first fingerbowl she ever saw (at a wealthy benefactor’s, who kindly didn’t remark on it), and found out only later when a college debutante told her. She dates, teases, goes to parties, joins in plenty of college-aged antics.Her sarcasm and cynicism come through in comments such as this, when she and her med-student boyfriend are outside a delivery room, hearing a woman in labour making a lot of noise. He tells her that the woman is on a drug that will make her forget all about the pain because she’s in a kind of twilight sleep. (Yeah, right.)Esther thinks: “I thought it sounded just like the sort of drug a man would invent. Here was a woman in terrible pain, obviously feeling every bit of it or she wouldn’t groan like that, and she would go straight home and start another baby, because the drug would make her forget how bad the pain had been, when all the time, in some secret part of her, that long, blind, doorless and windowless corridor of pain was waiting to open up and shut her in again.” She wants to grow up, become an adult, lose her virginity, become one of them but remain outside of them, whoever they are. The popular crowd. She actually did a pretty good job of straddling the divide, I think, but that may have been part of her undoing. “I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story.From the tip of every branch, like a fat purple fig, a wonderful future beckoned and winked. One fig was a husband and a happy home and children, and another fig was a famous poet and another fig was a brilliant professor, and another fig was EE Gee [her initials], the amazing editor, and another fig was Europe and Africa and South America, [many more dreams]. . . and beyond and above these figs were many more figs I couldn’t quite make out.I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death, just because I couldn’t make up my mind which of the figs I would choose. I wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the figs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet.”There’s an enormous amount of information available about Plath and her work, as there is about Temple Grandin and hers, although they are very different women. Still, I sense some connection there.I enjoyed the writing and have only a bit of criticism about the loose ends that I think she was unable to tie up and that we may think we have figured out, but I'm not entirely sure. I'm sorry she didn't find, as the women in labour were supposed to find, an escape from feeling that a "secret part of her, that long, blind, doorless and windowless corridor of pain was waiting to open up and shut her in again.” My edition had a lengthy editor’s note at the end with some sketches and a biographical note by Lois Ames.Fascinating.P.S. See comment #25 for my response to another reader who hated the book because they were triggered by the racism and language, especially the use of the "n -word" (not the usual "n-word", but "Negro"), which IS what we were taught was the appropriate language in the 1950s.Written in April 1963, this is the "Letter from a Birmingham Jail" by Martin Luther King Jr. addressing his fellow clergymen about his work. In it he uses the word 'Negro' 64 times and the word 'black' only 5 times and when talking about 'black nationalists'.https://www.africa.upenn.edu/Articles...
4195849081	4.5I understand suicide newly after reading The Bell Jar. Plath illustrated a perpetual loop of living, which vacillated from one extreme to another. She’d make obsessive effort towards something, even if inconsequential to her life, and became ruthless towards others in this pursuit. Then came the pain and exhaustion from the effort, the rage and resentment with which she pushed the world away to have no responsibilities, that primal resentment that comes from the rage at your mother for birthing you, for putting you here and making you do all the work of living. Finally, her obsessive thinking lead to planning her own suicide, from big picture to details, giving her purpose and drive. She’d escape the loop, only to be engulfed again in a sudden wave. One of the most beautiful passages was when she stood at her father’s grave, and I thought she was finally surrendering to her sorrow, finally letting it wash her clean. Then her mind raced off to a suicide method, just like a good OCD thought will.I’ve always said I’ve learned more about life from fiction than nonfiction. Although I read and enjoy more nonfiction now than I used to, I still think that’s true. Fiction is for the empathic, who learn by invitation to inhabit an individual, a society, a time and/or a place. For me, there’s no learning as deep. I tend to prefer emotional inhabitance of the most intimate kind, where I am transformed by the understanding of a human being different from me, yet with aspects of overlap. I’ve never seriously considered suicide, but I’ve often wished the world would stop, and I’m aquainted with OCD. I know there isn’t one answer to why someone would choose to end their life: Tove Ditlevsen’s Copenhagen Trilogy was a gorgeous work of autobiographical fiction about another female writer who went that way, and although there was overlap between these women, there were also clear differences. But for 10 years I’ve wondered why someone I knew, who seemed to have so many internal resources, took his own life, and Plath’s sharing of her inner dynamics pointed me to a truth about him formerly unknown.Apart from that? It’s a good book. I thought it might feel too young, that I may have missed my time with it. It didn’t. I didn’t. It was the right time.
5165097498	The Bell Jar by Sylvia Plath is a Modern Classic and Literary Fiction Novel!In 1953, protagonist Esther Greenwood, an ambitious and intelligent nineteen-year-old English undergrad from Boston, is awarded a summer internship as a guest-editor with Ladies Magazine in New York City. Initially, everything is wonderful with the excitement of being in the big-city, working at the magazine, and the gatherings with other young women in the program. But certain things happen that Esther doesn't anticipate and she begins feeling disconnected, unfocused, and anxious. When Esther returns home, she realizes the aspirations she imagines for herself are in conflict with current social norms for women. She feels confined and trapped by these expectations. As these feeling intensify, Esther slowly spirals into a depression that quickly escalates into a mental break... The Bell Jar is written in the first-person voice of Esther as she shares details of her past and current circumstances. She has a non-conformist viewpoint about sexuality, marriage, and having children, a unique opinion for a woman in the 1950's. My first impression of The Bell Jar is the beauty of Sylvia Plath's writing style and gorgeous prose that is in sharp contrast to the darkness of the story. Esther's journey is raw and frightening and yet the light within the writing continues to draw the reader in. I was completely engaged.The Bell Jar audiobook is narrated by Maggie Gyllenhaal whose first-person voicing brings Esther to life. It feels like you're in her presence as she speaks the words. It's an amazing listen.Some readers may have trouble separating the character, Esther Greenwood from the author, Sylvia Plath. Knowing this novel is semi-autobiographical is a hard reality to swallow. The trigger warnings of depression and suicide should be taken seriously. Parts can be difficult to read and this story stays with you after you're finished, so be concerned. With that said, it's a brilliant piece of Literary Fiction. The Bell Jar is a novel I will remember, perhaps forever. I highly recommend this book to readers who enjoy Classics from the Mid-20th Century with a feminist point-of-view, like I do.5⭐ The Bell Jar was originally published on January 14, 1963 in the U.K. under the pseudonym 'Victoria Lucas'. Sylvia Plath died less than one month later on February 11, 1963. The Bell Jar was not published in the U.S. until April 11, 1971 per the wishes of Sylvia Path's husband, Ted Hughes.
1959370772	The protagonist Esther Greenwood is largely based on Sylvia Plath herself. She is a young, aspiring writer who has been given a guest internship at a fashion magazine, and hopes to make it as a poet some day. Unfortunately, Esther is struggling to fight off psychological afflictions that eventually lead to a nervous breakdown. The breakdown that Esther Greenwood experiences in the novel is a portrayal of the breakdown that Plath suffered at age twenty. Esther is completely impaired during her stint with mental illness: barely able to read, speak or think. She is a smart and accomplished woman with a normal exterior, and therefore her breakdown doesn't make much sense. The novel raises the question of whether happy and healthy living is a matter of choice or fate, and explores if there is any hope for people who swear that they are innately flawed. "I took a deep breath and listened to the old brag of my heart. I am, I am, I am”, one of the most famous quotes from the novel. Plath phrases things beautifully. The tone of the novel is very consistent too. It maintains a dark vibe with a sense longing for the past.
1966327550	"Wherever I sat—on the deck of a ship or at a street café in Paris or Bangkok—I would be sitting under the same glass bell jar, stewing in my own sour air."The Bell Jar has been on my tbr since before the term tbr even existed. That being said, I'm so thankful that I didn't read it sooner, that I read it now, at this exact particular time in my life. My younger self would not have had the life experience to understand this story on such a profound level.Plath's writing is beyond reproach. I found myself reading many passages over and over again so that I could completely absorb and digest the feelings they invoked in me. "I wondered why I couldn’t go the whole way doing what I should any more. This made me sad and tired. Then I wondered why I couldn’t go the whole way doing what I shouldn’t..."This story is without any doubt the single greatest fictional achievement in capturing the mind of a person drowning in depression. It's not endless crying or any of the other dramatics displayed in the movies.It's quiet.It's subtle.It's stealthy.Until it's not."But when it came right down to it, the skin of my wrist looked so white and defenseless that I couldn’t do it. It was as if what I wanted to kill wasn’t in that skin or the thin blue pulse that jumped under my thumb, but somewhere else, deeper, more secret, and a whole lot harder to get at."This was a Traveling Friends group read and I couldn't be more thankful for the ladies that shared this read with me. Not one of us was left unscathed by this story.
38824416	Warning: this review contains major spoilers for the movie MelancholiaThe paradox at the heart of The Bell Jar is that Esther, the narrator, comes across as an engaging and indeed admirable person. She's smart, funny, perceptive and seems to have everything going for her. But she feels less and less connected with life, and in the end just wants to kill herself. Evidently, there must be something wrong with her. Perhaps she would have been okay if only she'd been prescribed the appropriate kind of pills?I thought of The Bell Jar earlier this week when we watched the new von Trier movie, Melancholia. The central character, Justine, who's brilliantly interpreted by Kirsten Dunst, has a fair amount in common with Esther. She's beautiful, successful in her work, and just about to marry a charming man who adores her. We meet her on her way to a fabulous wedding, joking and laughing with her soon-to-be-husband in a white stretch limo which amusingly gets stuck on a narrow road. All the same, it soon becomes clear that Justine isn't enjoying things. Her sister Claire, played by Charlotte Gainsbourgh, keeps telling her to be sensible. Claire's fears are well-grounded. As the evening progresses, Justine behaves more and more erratically. She walks out of her own reception, gratuitously insults the boss who's just given her an unexpected promotion, has random sex with a stranger. Her new husband abandons her as a bad job before the marriage is even a day old. But Justine doesn't seem to care at all.What she's really worried about, we discover, is the mysterious blue planet Melancholia, which is heading towards Earth at an enormous speed. It becomes larger every day. Claire is worried about it too, and sneaks off every now and then to look things up on the Web. Her husband reassures her that scientists have done the calculations. It seems scary, but Melancholia is going to miss us. We'll be fine.Justine knows it won't be fine. She's had a dream where various signs appear. At the end, Melancholia collides with the Earth, destroying both worlds. The prophetic signs have begun to turn up, and she is certain her dream will become reality. The knowledge paralyses her. After the disastrous wedding reception, she moves in with Claire, who does her best to look after her. Justine is clinically depressed. She can't even summon up the willpower to get into her bath, despite Claire's coaxing. Claire makes her favourite meat-loaf. Justine, weeping, says it tastes of ashes.Melancholia comes ever closer, and is now a monstrous shape in the sky. It's finally obvious to everyone that things are not going to work out. Claire goes to look for her husband, hoping he'll once again find words of reassurance, and discovers he's taken an overdose. She is beside herself with fear and grief and runs around hyperventilating, clutching her small son to her. But, to her surprise, Justine has lost her lethargic air. She's full of a grim new energy.With impact now just hours away, Claire does her best to summon up some dignity. She suggests to Justine that they should go out on the terrace with a couple of glasses of wine and wait peacefully for the end."So we should have a glass of wine?" asks Justine."Yes," says Claire, completely helpless."How about some music? Beethoven's Ninth? Perhaps some candles?" continues Justine remorselessly."I just want to do this right," whispers Claire."You know what I think of your plan?" says Justine. "I think it's a piece of shit."Needless to say, there is no huge blue planet on a collision course with Earth. And if Esther had only been given the right kind of pills, she would have been fine.
6230231415	i am genuinely shocked and confused to why this book is averaging 4 stars. i went into this book knowing that this book is very loved and so is the author but i had no clue how problematic and blatantly racist this book would be, i assumed this would be a feminist book but this book is shitting on asian women and black people. for example “i looked as ugly as a chinaman” “smudgy eyed chinese woman staring idiotically into my face” “the *n word* kept grinning and chuckling in a silly way” this book is quite literally the definition of selective white feminism oh and let’s not forget the 10 paragraphs yapping about how she DESPISES gay people. if you like this book PLEASE do not talk to me
4004099189	Sylvia Plath's ability to navigate such a complicated topic and also serve us a prose that is so vivid and intense will never fail to amaze me.
4623631423	Fuck you and that fig tree
3660976280	“I felt dreadfully inadequate.”Ugh.That is how I felt after finishing this book. Thank goodness it is short, because when I decided I could not stomach it for more than a few pages at a time, it would have taken more forever to finish otherwise.There is no joy in “The Bell Jar”. No hope. And I have read many books where that is the case. The problem with this book is that there is no point to any of it. No real characterization, no depth. As I read this text I kept thinking of “The Catcher in the Rye”, another underwhelming experience for me. I think both texts suffer from protagonist problems, and both are products of their time and they did not age well.I could be nice and blame the time of year I read it, in between Thanksgiving and Christmas, for my dislike but that would be a cop out. 200 pages of how one would like to commit suicide. That’s a book? Maybe with a compelling characterization, or with more than a shallow examination of motivating factors for such thoughts, but this surface examination is a misfire on both counts.I honestly don’t know what else to say about “The Bell Jar”. I can appreciate the skill of the writer. There are flashes of it in this book. Plath was a great poet, but a novelist, no. I think this text is one of those where its “greatness is thrust upon it” by people who wanted it for various agendas. If just standing alone, it does not merit any such claim. I did find I was engaged in the last 20 pages or so, where the book shifts gears, but that also may have been because I knew I was almost done. And I would not be picking it up again.
442395875	❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ “‘How do you feel?’ ‘All right.’ But I didn’t. I felt terrible.” I feel incredibly conflicted over Sylvia Plath’s The Bell Jar. On the one hand, I found it to be an ingenious and striking read, one that immortalizes in exacting detail a young woman’s slow descent into psychosis and offers a piercing commentary on 1950s American society, specifically its oppressive gender norms. On the other hand, I could not look past how racist it was. Set in 1953 The Bell Jar is narrated by Esther Greenwood, a misanthropic 19-year-old from the suburbs of Boston who wins a summer internship working for a New York fashion magazine. For the most part, Esther’s voice is a winning combination of acerbic and witty. She often entertains morbid thoughts, she offers scathing assessments of those around, and, as the days go by, she seems to be steadily sinking into torpor. Although Esther tries to make the most of New York, she quickly becomes disenchanted by its supposedly glamorous scene. She is at once repulsed and appreciative of the girls who are interning with her. While Esther is drawn to Doreen, who is one of the livelier of the girls, and Betsy, a pious goody-two-shoes, she ultimately feels very much apart from them, and often seems to view them and the rest of New York through a glass darkly. What follows is Esther's unsettling descent into depression. As her contempt towards others and life in general grows, she begins to engage in self-destructive behaviour and acts in increasingly irrational ways. Later on, Esther attempts to write a novel but her deteriorating mental health becomes a concern to her mother who forces her to see a psychiatrist who goes on to prescribe her electroconvulsive therapy. This ‘treatment’ goes awry and Esther worsens. Eventually, Esther is committed to a hospital where she is reunited with an old acquaintance. While the novel does end on a hopeful note, it is by no means an easy ride. It is brutal and unsparing. Throughout the course of this novel, Plath captures with razor-sharp precision the mind of an alienated young woman. She articulates Esther’s ugliest thoughts and fears. As Esther tries and fails to navigate adulthood in New York she becomes more and more withdrawn. She’s apathetic, pessimistic, and derisive of others. Her experiences fail to match her expectations and Esther struggles to make sense of who she is, who she wants to be, and who she ought to be. She’s suffocated by the limitations of her gender and seems to reject the visions of womanhood, of marriage, and of motherhood that American society presents her with: “when you were married and had children it was like being brainwashed, and afterwards you went about numb as a slave in some private, totalitarian state.”Not only does Plath render the stultifying atmosphere of the city and of the circles Esther moves in, but she conveys the lethal ennui experienced by her protagonist. In New York Esther struggles to traverse from adolescence to adulthood. Her alienation from others, her self-estrangement, and her disconnection from her contemporary society pave the way to her eventual breakdown. When others attempt to ‘help’ and/or ‘cure’ Esther they cause more harm than good. They either treat her in an inhumane way or dismiss the severity of her condition.Esther is certainly not a likeable heroine. She’s a mean snob who often views other people as grotesque and beneath her. But, as I read on, I came to pity her. In spite of her solipsisms and general nastiness, Esther is clearly suffering. Esther’s mother seems to care more about appearances than her daughter’s wellbeing. The men around seem unable to truly see her. Her former sweetheart doesn’t really know her, while the men she meets in New York seem all too eager to use her. As Esther’s desperation grows her view of the world becomes steadily more distorted, her imagination even more ghoulish.I appreciated how effective Plath’s style is in rendering Esther’s mental state. At times a scene or one of Esther’s thoughts are depicted in such vivid detail as to be overwhelming. But, the story also plays around with linear storytelling, presenting us with fragmented conversations or scenes that we are able to understand only as we read on. At times her prose acquires a sticky quality that fits perfectly with the story’s initial summer backdrop. So what could possibly cause me to give this novel 3 stars instead of say 4 or 5? Well, while I recognise that this is a seminal feminist work, I could not look past how racist Esther, Plath’s ‘alter ego’, was. While I can usually look past classics’ books using dated/non-pc language, Esther’s racist remarks/attitudes did not strike me as merely being symptomatic of ‘the times’. It’s totally ‘okay’ if our college-educated and intellectual protagonist, who is critical of the accepted social norms of her time when it comes to gender-based inequalities, uses racial slurs. Sure. She’s white and it's the 1950s. But then we have these instances where Esther is not feeling good and mistakes her reflection as belonging to somebody else, specifically someone who is Asian: “I noticed a big, smudgy-eyed Chinese woman staring idiotically into my face. It was only me, of course. I was appalled to see how wrinkled and used-up I looked.” and “The face in the mirror looked like a sick Indian.”.When a girl says she’s meeting up with a Peruvian guy Esther says the following: “They’re squat,” I said. “They’re ugly as Aztecs.”....And then we have that scene at the hospital involving a Black orderly. After establishing that he is indeed Black she keeps referring to him as “the negro” rather than say “the orderly” or “the man”. This orderly say things like “Mah, mah!” or “Oh Miz, oh Miz […] You shouldn’t of done that, you shouldn’t, you reely shouldn’t.”. Before this (as far as i can recall of course) Plath did not lay much (or any really) emphasis on her characters’ accents. Yet, all of a sudden she just has to establish the specific way in which this man talks. And of course, because he’s an orderly and Black the way he talks has to be stereotyped. Anyway, Esther believes that the orderly is toying with her and the other patients so she “drew my foot back and gave him a sharp, hard kick on the calf of the leg”. Great stuff. Plath’s description of non-American characters also left a sour taste in my mouth: “She was six feet tall, with huge, slanted, green eyes and thick red lips and a vacant, Slavic expression.” and “A large, bosomy Slavic lady”. Wtf is that even supposed to mean? How fucking lazy is this type of description? Why are all ‘Slavic-looking’ women large? While Esther uses unflattering terms to describe white Americans, describing someone’s neck as “spam-coloured”, these descriptions, which poking fun at their physical appearance, are ultimately humorous. The ones referring to Black or Asian characters, not so much. Esther’s repugnance is even more pronounced in the instances I mentioned above, and the language she uses is often dehumanising or at least seems to suggest that she does view them as inferior to white people. Every few chapters I would come across a racist remark/line that simply prevented me from becoming invested in Esther’s story. That this is a highly autobiographical novel makes me feel all the more uneasy at Esther's racism.While this is certainly an important novel and one of the first books to depict in such uncompromising terms a young woman’s descent into depression, its white American brand of feminism is dated at best.
1380802084	First Read: April 2017, Rating: 5/5 starsSecond Read: March 2020, Rating: 5/5 starsHow do I even begin to do this book justice?Plath's discourse on mental illness is so startling bleak that it is hard not to get dragged down by the negativity this emotes. In that way, this is a mirror of dually the protagonist Esther's, Plath's own, and the reader's emotions. These many layers build upon each other until it becomes hard to tell where each individual's feelings starts and ends, so completely was I caught up in both Esther and Plath's inner-turmoil. Their story became, too, my shared one.This established mood permeates the entire story and becomes as much a part of the tale, as the actual plot. The utterly immersive quality of the writing is what drew me in, captivated my attention and spat me back out again, feeling utterly used, at the novel's close.
1417101945	Да ви се е случвало да хванете настинка, въпреки че сте си слагали шапката и сте си носили вълнените чорапи? Да сте били убедени, че сте направили всичко както трябва в дадена ситуация и все пак съдбата да ви е погодила гадничък номер? Предполагам, че да. Тогава съвсем спокойно депресията би могла да ви дебне зад ъгъла, нищо, че животът ви си изглежда привидно нормален към момента. Спокойно, няма да можете да направите нищо (или както казва баща ми: „Корабът потъва по график“) – просто това е пътят, който трябва да извървите.„Стъкленият похлупак“ е като разходка из обраслата с трънак градина на нечий ум. Мъчителна е и те изподрасква целия. Естър Грийнуд не е от протагонистите, с които читателите се отъждествяват. Хората обикновено прилепват към своите малки частици ежедневие и ги наричат „щастие“. Когато се наситят на това щастие, то се превръща в бреме и монотонност. Тогава започват да си търсят друго щастие. Естър по някакъв почти свръхестествен начин изглежда прескача тези фази и достига до момента, в който се пита „А от тук нататък какво?“. За нея метафората със смокиновото дърво е едновременно възможно бъдеще и сюрреалистично преживяно минало. Тя иска да опита от всичко, но и има усещането, че всичко може би ще има един и същ вкус, ще донесе все същите обикновени човешки емоции – без значение дали е на пътешествие из Европа, в някое кафене в Париж или някъде из Банкок. Защото „everything people did seemed so silly, because they only died in the end“. Защо да правиш каквото и да е, след като накрая просто ще си отидеш? Въпреки болезнената тематика на романа, Силвия Плат описва апатията на Естър, като използва подбран с вкус язвителен тон, изискано чувство за хумор и доста автоирония (аз през цялото време не спрях да си мисля, че всяко усещане на Естър е всъщност нещо, изпитано от Силвия, макар романът да е само отчасти автобиографичен). 50-те години на миналия век в САЩ са време на „врява и безумство“, белязано от Студената война, икономически растеж, сексуални табута, строго разграничение на ролите на мъжа и жената, стремеж към образа на перфектната домакиня, ерата на Елвис Пресли, Мерилин Монро и pin-up гърлите. Време на оформяне на калъпи. Някъде прочетох, че на Естър ѝ липсвала емоционалност и всички описания в романа били доста клинични. Аз смятам, че това е вследствие на изпепелена прекомерна емоционалност. Нещо като burnout на чувствата – изпитваш толкова много чувства и за толкова много неща, че накрая се изчерпваш и оставаш неспособен да продължиш да изпитваш. В крайна сметка има нещо неестествено. Още през Просвещението фокусът се премества върху отделния индивид и всеки следващ период се старае да подготвя по-осъвременена версия на изначалния манифест на хуманизма. Въпреки тези опити обаче, преди едва 50-60 години в най-напредналата страна на света няма кой да чуе вика за душевна помощ на една млада жена. Да, тогава, разбира се, ги е имало лоботомията и електрошока, но те са сериозна стъпка назад в традицията на човеколюбието. „Стъкленият похлупак“ е търсене на смисъла на живота. Отказ от конформизма и обезверяване пред перспективата за наложени модели. Човек, който е имал смелостта да си зададе въпроса „Защо трябва да правя като всички останали?“, заслужава уважение. Заслужава и отговори. Най-вече заслужава да ги открие по своя начин.
1747459741	‘‘Θα ήμουν πάντα καθισμένη κάτω από τον ίδιο γυάλινο κώδωνα, βράζοντας μέσα στην ίδια την ξινή μου ανάσα’’.Ο «γυάλινος κώδων» ένα αμιγώς αυτοβιογραφικό μυθιστόρημα για την συμβολική και ουσιαστική διαδικασία που οδηγεί την ψυχή στα σκοτεινά, υγρά, υπόγεια και πέτρινα μονοπάτια της αυτοκαταστροφής. ‘‘Γι αυτόν που βρίσκεται μέσα στο γυάλινο κώδωνα, άδειος και ακινητοποιημένος σαν νεκρό μωρό, ο ίδιος κόσμος είναι το κακό όνειρο”Η Σύλβια Πλαθ περιγράφει διεξοδικά, χαρίζοντας βαριά ταύτιση και διαδραστική σκοτεινιά θλίψης, όλα τα απροσμέτρητα βάθη των καταθλιπτικών ασθενειών. Η γραφή της υπερχειλίζει, σκορπίζοντας το γλυκό δηλητήριο της διχασμένης ψυχής της, μεταφέροντας όλη την απελπισία και την ασφυξία που βίωσε. Δημιουργεί ένα υλικό ανάγνωσης με ψιθυριστά μηνύματα που προκαλούν αμηχανία, ενόχληση και τρομακτικό συσχετισμό. Αυτή η φρικιαστική αίσθηση που σου δημιουργεί μια ευφυής πένα, αυτή η απαίσια πιθανότητα συσχετισμού ότι ίσως, μπορεί, ενδέχεται, ή τουλάχιστον θα μπορούσε, αυτή η απεικόνιση των διαταραγμένων πτυχών μιας προσωπικότητας να είναι η δική μου.... η δική σου.. η ψυχή μας. Περιγραφές τόσο απλές, αλληγορικές, οικίες, κυνικές και ειλικρινείς μέσα απο ένα διορατικό και εξοικειωμένο με την καθημερινότητα όλων μας γυναικείο χαρακτήρα. Εγκλωβισμένο σε ένα αδιέδοξο ματαιότητας, ώστε ο αναγνώστης με δυσκολία μπορεί να ανακάμψει απο τις διαστρεβλωμένες προβολές θανάτου. Όλη η ιστορία είναι μια ισχυρή υποκίνηση άρρωστης ελπίδας, ένα μελαγχολικό πλαίσιο σκέψης, μια διαυγή κραυγή που πνίγεται στα γυάλινα σπειροειδή τοιχώματα του κώδωνα χωρίς οξυγόνο. Ένα μουντό φθινόπωρο με καταχνιά που κρύβει τον ήλιο, το σύννεφο της κατάθλιψης που ξεσπάει την ασταμάτητη μπόρα του και σε μουσκεύει μέχρι να πνιγεί ένας απο τους εαυτούς σου. Αυτός που θα επιζήσει δεν είναι απαραίτητα ο δικός σου, δεν είναι ο εαυτός που θέλεις να είσαι. Η πυξίδα της ψυχής δείχνει προς το πεπρωμένο σου και σίγουρα δεν σου εξασφαλίζει διέξοδο απο την τρομερή δυαδικότητα που σε συνθλίβει. Κάποιος έχει προκύψει απο μέσα σου και έχει πάρει τον έλεγχο της ζωής και του θανάτου σου, αλλά όποιος κι αν είναι αυτός, σίγουρα δεν είναι ο ίδιος. Η συγγραφέας με λυρισμό και ποιητικό λόγο ξετυλίγει το μαγικό νήμα της ψυχικής αρρώστειας που την καταδυναστεύει. Παρακολουθούμε μια αναπαράσταση συνθηκών της ίδιας της ζωής της που επικρατούν στο μυθιστόρημα (διπολική διαταραχή,προβλήματα εγκατάλειψης, καταθλιπτική συμπεριφορά) και τη φρίκη που έχει αισθανθεί αλλά την αποδέχεται. Την αγαπάει αυτή τη φρίκη ως επίφοβο, αναπόσπαστο κομμάτι της ζωής της. Μέσα απο αυτή την αποδοχή ίσως καταφέρει να απελευθερωθεί απο τους διπλούς δαίμονες. Ίσως αν τους αγαπήσει να την αφήσουν να ξαναγεννηθεί ή να της πιστώσουν μια λυτρωτική αναγέννηση. Τίποτα δεν είναι σίγουρο. «Μα δεν ήμουν σίγουρη. Καθόλου σίγουρη. Πως ήξερα ότι κάποια μέρα, στο κολέγιο στην Ευρώπη, κάπου, οπουδήποτε, ο γυάλινος κώδωνας, με τις ασφυκτικές του παραμορφώσεις, δεν θα με έκλεινε ξανά μέσα του» ;“Φαίνεται, δυστυχώς, πως δεν είχε άδικο!Λίγους μόνο μήνες μετά από την έκδοση ετούτου του μοναδικού της μυθιστορήματος, στην Ευρώπη όπως προέβλεψε, συγκεκριμένα στο Λονδίνο, στις 11 Φεβρουαρίου 1963, άρρωστη και οικονομικά αδύναμη, η Πλαθ έφτιαξε το γάλα και το φαγητό για τα παιδιά της, έβαλε το κεφάλι της μέσα στο φούρνο και εισπνέοντας φυσικό αέριο, έφυγε για την αθανασία”. 🌗🌑🎚🖤🖤Κι ενώ δεν μπορώ να αρνηθώ πως πρόκειται για ένα βαρύ ανάγνωσμα με αντίστοιχο αυτοβιογραφικό θλιβερό υπόβαθρο που θίγει ένα τεράστιο θέμα, δεν το βρήκα διόλου καταθλιπτικό. Θα το χαρακτήριζα μάλλον συναρπαστικό. Καλή ανάγνωση. Πολλούς ασπασμούς.
5987716620	|| 3.0 stars ||This wasn’t bad, but I don’t quite understand what all the fuss is about either. I get that this was likely a very progressive and revolutionary entry for female mental health fiction in the 1960s, but compared to modern books on the subject this is by no means anything extraordinary or special. If anything, I mostly think it stands out for its historic value; it’s interesting to see how mental illness was treated in the 50s and 60s, and also to see what was considered as feminist back then. Although still not perfect, mental health prevention and treatment has progressed immensely, and the creepiest part about this book for me really was the casual use of electrotherapy. And the fact that this book actually makes it seem like it worked...? Yikes. I mean, it was obvious that our main character didn’t like the shock treatment, but in the end, she does get better because of that. So, the book kind of makes it seem like a necessary evil? Which, obviously, it’s not. It’s absolute bullshit. But yea, they didn’t seem to think so in the that day and age.I found it quite annoying that the feminism in this book mostly meant that our main character hated every single woman she encountered. She judged everyone and everything, but meanwhile she had no idea what she wanted either. She didn’t want to get married, but she didn’t really have the drive to become a careerwoman either... She was in limbo. She felt pushed in a lot of different directions, which eventually meant she had no passion to truly take any of those directions for herself. I suppose the book is trying to tell us that the pressures and expectations that are put on women can be very damning and can make it impossible for women to succeed. Which is a good point, but I don’t feel like the ‘hating every woman’ approach is the best way to show that.All in all, this was an okay read (for the time it was written), but I’m not a big fan or anything. It doesn’t stand out to me at all.
916177430	Originally published in 1963, The Bell Jar must have been revolutionary for its time. A well-educated and witty young woman by the name of Esther Greenwood descends into depression after moving to New York. Along the way, she rejects the advances of male suitors, and as she spirals further and further out of control, she lampoons society's constructions of gender as well as the use of shock therapy within the mental health system. Her narrative flows in and out of time, pushing us forward and backward amidst her struggle to stay afloat in a sea of melancholy.The Bell Jar raises questions still relevant today. It asks us to examine the intersection between feminism and psychology, such as how the confinement of women damages their mental health. Sylvia Plath provides us with a voice that is not altogether likeable, but relatable enough to sympathize and empathize with. I feel like all readers will react to Esther differently - some with indifference, some with a strong sense of solidarity, and others maybe an outward dislike. Still, I would recommend The Bell Jar to anyone interested in the subjects of feminism or psychology, because it delves into both in a time period that we might not all be familiar with.
1046259249	I remember reading this short story in Asimov’s magazine about a very young girl who suffers from autism. She moves at her own pace, dragging herself at the heels of the rushing time and existing in that void where her consciousness treads a gravelly path only to arrive at the destination to find that everyone else had already moved on. So that when she answers her mother to a question that was asked of her three weeks ago, her mother doesn’t really understand her because she had already moved on from that question. For the life of me, I can’t seem to be able to remember the name of the story. But it probably was the best darnest short story I will ever read. And it seemed to wave, lazy like a flag in a winter night with the trifle of winds, in the nook in the behind of my head that was spared by the brutal voice of Esther Greenwood, throughout my reading of The Bell Jar. I failed to grasp at the significance of this remembrance until I came across this line that helped put everything in blinding focus: I felt very still and empty, the way the eye of a tornado must feel moving dully along in the middle of the surrounding hullabaloo For The Bell Jar is an account of Sylvia Plath’s own experiences, Esther a fait accompli , a flesh that she constructed of her own imagination , to allow a look into her own life through a ‘a curtain of clear water’. Or a bell jar. It is an anxious and unsettling novel. On one hand there is a young girl who a younger me, stripped of the vagaries of time and experiences, nodded along with vigorously and vehemently and found a winning kinship with. A world away from my own childhood, yet the voice of Esther spoke of the dawn of youth with such clarity and a bluntness that can only be expected off the mouth of a child. And then the descent of the bell jar, the glassy apparition that separated her from the world into her own, looming like a black cloud, slowly and sleathily crept in. She feels separate from the rest of the world, so disassociated that it feels to her as though even the air that she breathes is separate and ‘sour’. The unflinching prospect of death as the final destination causes her to question the merit of the frivolities of everyday life, the depression finally pushes her to try and take her own life. My reading of this book was a sad one. Knowing that it was not just a story, knowing that the haunting witticisms was a result of a Schizophrenia (although she was never officially diagnosed) and in full possession of the knowledge of the finality that ripped this brilliant voice at the young age of thirty. Yet, knowing full well, how the story really ends, shouldn’t drive one to perceive this as a book about depression. Although it deals with the part of Plath’s life that romanced with death with her many attempts at suicide, it is also the voice of a girl who refused to conform. The Bell Jar is also a text on social critique. Set in the 50’s with it’s strict societal constraints , Plath shreds the accepted notions of what it was she was supposed to be, and attempts to replace them with what she wanted to be. No wonder that it became one of the centrepieces of feminism. But, in the end what really gripped me was her brutal honesty and the genius that she potrayed in evoking reality through her prose. For when she wrote: The Silence depressed me. It wasn’t the silence of silence. It was my own silence. I realised how stifling it must have felt to have realised such glaring truths in her own alienated world, separate in her understanding and alone in her trials. Update(14/11/2015) : The short story I mention is Movement by Nancy Fulda.I read it last year while sitting on a bench in a bus station waiting to come back home after a particularly intense and gruelling internship. The bus was late by hours due to floods and it was cold and rainy and just one of those particularly miserable winter nights that make you miss your bed and your mom's special 'cold day' dish.I remember reading this story from an old, badly dog eared copy of the Asimov magazine and the moment of inner silence that follows the completion that tells you that this is a book that is going to remain with you. I distinctly remember the details in the story, and the shadow of silence that descended as I made my way through this. But, soon after the bus arrived and I forgot the copy of the magazine. I left it behind on the bench and ever since, try as I might, I couldn't bring the name of this story to my mind. It was lost like the magazine. Until I mention it here, and two wonderful people tell me the issue, the title, the author... Ah! I love Goodreads! Thank you to Kim and Joe for helping clear the mist!
2421403670	New all time fave
109924258	Sylvia Plath makes going crazy sound so rational! I loved Esther (or Plath), I love how she never seems to lose her sense of humour even in the worst time.
6825832232	The Bell Jar is about an American Dream gone wrong. Esther, a young woman from Boston, comes to New York and feels the immense pressure of the city's upper-class intellectual circles. The lavish lifestyle and superficiality are evident from the 3rd chapter, "Ladies' Day," with its descriptions of extravagant food. In my opinion, this is actually a work of a small-town writer who fears the shattering of her dreams, afraid of being left behind in the fast-paced world of elite schools, high society, publishing, and handsome men.After publishing this book, Plath committed suicide. So, it's more like a suicide note, a burden released by a mentally ill person. It tells the story of how women in the upper-class intellectual circles of post-war America felt oppressed. After her death, not only was the book published, but it also achieved unprecedented success, and countless generations of women have read it.But for me, as human beings, we all have to bear the weight of reality, no matter what. It's a responsibility, and no matter how difficult it is, we must endure it.This is the reason why I feel a certain degree of disgust and irony towards the latter half of the novel, when nearly half of it is devoted to describing how Esther destroys herself after experiencing betrayal in love, friendship, and her dreams.Plath’s writing was OK, but this is definitely not a good novel. The story is too childish, the central theme is childish, the narrative is childish, and Plath herself, as the author of the book, is childish. Strangely enough, many people loved it, look at the amount of 4 & 5-star reviews.I’m sorry but I don’t get it. Esther always presents herself as a Plath-esque American sweetheart, yet despite being a virgin, she is perceived as promiscuous due to her appearance. And the seemingly honest and hardworking Yale medical student, with over 30 sexual experiences, is seen as a perfect marriage candidate. OK, he was tempted and fell, but that doesn't really count as a fall. It was just a lapse, the fault of that flirtatious women, not his own problem. But this is clearly the problem — both for Plath and Esther.How to solve this problem has always puzzled them, and until the end of the novel they are still trying to overcome the extreme impact of this fact. So, during a break from the asylum, she randomly found a man she decided not to see again and lost her virginity. She tries to make her virginity as unimportant as a man's virginity. But in fact, she values ​her virginity too much, and cannot understand that men go crazy thinking about getting it. Whether it is a male student at Yale or a young associate professor of mathematics, this kind of thinking does not require wisdom at all. As long as straight men have sexual ability, they just, want it.That's the problem with Ploth and Esther. Even after having sex, she still didn't find the answer. The process of losing her virginity and bleeding was the process of endless doubts. This question will obviously not be answered by women losing their virginity.One thing that shocked me is how poorly female friendships are depicted in this novel. Do women in real life often see another women as competition, or are all those so-called 'BFFs' fake? Another thing is: do intelligent women, like female writers, not want to get married and have children? They think being a good wife and mother is undignified?Personally, it's a pity, thou. Both Plath and Esther were initially portrayed as such wonderful figures: independent, strong-willed, intelligent, happy, and lively. It's just puzzling why they would choose such a tragic ending.My interpretation is that they were too sensitive, perfectionist and craved love and freedom too much, feeling as if they were living under a bell jar, unable to breathe.I still believe that one's destiny is shaped by thought and action, not by despair or a negative outlook.1 / 5
2040553250	Ever since I was small I’ve been fascinated by death, er no, I mean it in the simplest way of fascination, it has nothing to do with my wistful nature or maybe a little, I am a happy being by the definitions of most authentic lexica, death just fascinates me for being death alone, a halt to everything, a standstill after a long, tiring journey(only if one wishes to make it long, to tire is inevitable though) a cool ,soggy evening after the long sunny day, a calm tame brook after the violent storm, a long anticipated friend, after an unfriendly hullabaloo of life, Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one’s head, and listen to silence. To have no yesterday, and no tomorrow. To forget time, to forgive life, to be at peace.as puts Plath: The one pure sensation that one gets after reading words that hurt like hell, is of apology maybe, Sylvia must have been in innermost pain to inscribe her feelings on paper, Bell Jar might not be structurally flawless, it has its imperfections all the same, her protagonist is only twenty and is supposed to have the time of her life, the striking resemblance of Esther Greenwood with Sylvia is undoubtable.“I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death, just because I couldn't make up my mind which of the figs I would choose. I wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the figs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet”Plath has stripped her emotions bare for blind world to view, isn’t it very apprehensive for a being to show places of such sheer darkness and weakness to lay open for world to see. And yet, how brave;. She molds them, carves something too refined and remarkable out of them, her own thoughts overpower her, make her defenseless and she roars, roars in agony of her own creation. The hell of her thoughts that led her to madness and then a mindless death.At twenty I tried to dieAnd get back, back, back to you.I thought even the bones would do.But they pulled me out of the sack, And they stuck me together with glue.I felt like a culprit for some sin unknown to me, throughout the journey along her, Sylvia Plath's death haunts every page as despair vanquishes life, “The silence depressed me. It wasn't the silence of silence. It was my own silence” she could’ve been saved, if only there had been a listener to her heart’s miseries, she could’ve lived longer only if there had been someone to seize her obstinately from that leapt she fated for herself!
449923329	Really enjoyed this much more the 2nd time reading it
1670119364	“Because wherever I sat - on the deck of a ship or at a street café in Paris or Bangkok - I would be sitting under the same glass bell jar, stewing in my own sour air.”Esther Greenwood is brilliant, beautiful, talented and successful, but she is slowing going under - possibly for the last time.Unfortunately I did not fall head over heels in love with The Bell Jar as I had hoped to, but I HAVE fallen for the writing of Sylvia Plath - and even Plath herself. My Pinterest board has recently been covered with her quotes, and I even bought a copy of her unabridged journals following a recommendation from @yleniareads That’s not to say I didn’t enjoy The Bell Jar, I really really liked it, it just wasn’t as life-changing as I had perhaps anticipated.I resonated with Esther in a lot of ways - I lost my father at a young age and, without sounding entirely egotistical, I also have achieved a lot of academic success in my life, which ultimately leads to me expecting more and more, afraid of failure. The expectations I place upon myself are high, and my mental health will suffer when things don’t go as planned. So it was easy for me to relate to some of the feelings Esther has. And that’s always nice when we read!Plath’s description of the bell jar itself is genius - that our protagonist feels suffocated, as if she has been placed under one. And every now and again she has moments of clarity, when the bell jar is lifted. Of course there are a lot of parallels between Plath and Esther, and I found it hard to dissociate the two at times. Reading this knowing Plath’s fate is almost uncomfortable, it feels as though you are reading her diary. It just made me feel sad at times :(It’s a beautifully written book, sprinkled with little moments of dark humour. Some parts were less intriguing or interesting than others. I probably preferred the second half over the first, where we really witness Esther at rock bottom.Overall, I may not have absolutely adored it, but the memorable quotes and imagery will prevail. I’m glad it has introduced me to the talent that was Sylvia Plath. 4 stars.
914007649	4.5*
4945972746	No tengo palabras para expresar todo lo que siento justo ahora. Solo puedo afirmar que leer este libro fue simplemente maravilloso.•🦋I took a feel breath and listen to the old brag of my heart. I am I am I am.🦋•título: The bell jar autor: Sylvia Plath género: ficción autobiográficaaño: 1963puntuación: 5/5⭐️ 🦋 p o s i t i v o 🦋•Narrativa. Lo mejor de la historia es la manera en que es contada. Tener a Esther como narradora hizo que mis sentimientos se vieran fuertemente removidos. Los pensamientos de Esther eran abrumadores y angustiantes, haciendo al lector sentirse igual que ella. Lo que más me gustó fue profundizar en el significado de la falta de propósitos, ambiciones y felicidad, Sin duda alguna la narración es el elemento clave para hacer entender lo que significa tener depresión, lo que me deja ver el gran trabajo que hizo Plath a la hora de escribir la novela, ya que alcanzar ese nivel de profundidad y sentimiento no es algo fácil de lograr. Brillantemente escrito. •Desarrollo de personaje. El libro funciona porque vemos un desarrollo completo en la protagonista. Verla caer poco a poco en una insuficiencia constante es duro de seguir pero que sin embargo, hace que la novela tenga sentido, ya que al ser una persona tan errante y contradictoria, solo hay una manera en que su situación se vea finalizada, y no es una fácil. •Temas. Me encantó encontrar una gran crítica social y personal a lo largo de todo el libro. Desde el funcionamiento de una gran metrópolis, como lo es Nueva York, pasando por las desigualdades sociales y de género, hasta la deficiencia en el sistema público de salud. Es brutal la cantidad de temas que vemos reflejados en el libro, me quedo corta tan solo mencionando estos. •Final. Me sorprendió que terminara tan esperanzador, no esperaba terminar esta historia con una sonrisa en el rostro y con la necesidad de volverla a leer, pero así ocurrió y fue precioso. Sentí que valió toda la pena recorrer el camino para llegar a ese final. Muy bonito. 🦋 c o n c l u s i ó n 🦋Amé “the bell jar” con todas las letras y les puedo asegurar que se ha vuelto una de mis lecturas favoritas de la vida. Este es un libro difícil y sé que no es para todo el mundo, pero que para mi significó mucho. Soy fiel defensora que tenemos que leer todo tipo de historias y que nos libros no están en la obligación de hacernos felices, porque el mundo se compone de miles de sentimientos e historias, y no todas son sencillas. Esta es una de esas y para mi valió la pena leer cada palabra, porque a veces tenemos que leer esta clase de libros para entender mejor a las personas. Por favor lean las advertencias antes de empezar “la campaña de cristal” porque expone situaciones densas de manera explícita y puede que no todo el mundo esté preparado para leer eso. Yo lo amé genuinamente y lo recomiendo muchísimo. ~Alaska🍃
4559763584	Cóż.. ekspozycja nie była najlepsza, te początkowe strony wydawały się zmierzać donikąd. Jak się później okazało, miało to oczywiście swój sens. Patrząc na datę publikacji tej książki, nie da się zaprzeczyć jej niezwykłości. Oczywiście najbardziej zachwycam się aspektem historii psychiatrii i to jakie metody leczenia zostały nam przedstawione. Ciekawostka jest taka, że nadal używa się terapii elektrowstrząsowej! Ocena: 4,0.
1160937924	Many writers pull from their own life experiences to create their works, and many people believe that you cannot write about life unless you have lived it to the fullest. Sylvia Plath understood first hand when it came to how people feel under the pressure from the society. Plath is intensively expressive in her novel and wishes to show the reader the torment she and others like her have gone through. Plath did not hold back when she wrote her novel The Bell Jar but instead let every emotion flow from her soul onto the pages. Her own experiences and every obstacle she faced gave her the voice to write such an accurate view of her character's feelings. A great deal of novel concerns the expectations that others have for Esther with regards to behaviour and her future, as well as the expectation that Esther has for others. Esther feels that people around her are causing her to break down, she decides that if she was untouched and confined, she would be normal again. Isn't that's how we feel most of the time?
459688123	أكثر الكتب التي أحب الكتابة عنها هي تلك الكتب التي تؤثر بي بشكل خاص .. لم أعرف سيلفيا بلاث إلا منذ سنوات قليلة من كتاب جمانة حداد عن الشعراء الذين قضوا نحبهم بالإنتحار .. شاعرية بلاث وإرتباطها بهيوز وطريقة موتها بوضع رأسها في فرن الغاز عوامل ساهمت في شهرتها وتأتي هذه الرواية التي تحكي قصتها لتؤكد إبداع سيلفيا إلى جانب جنونها ..استير فتاة متدربة في إحدى مجلات الموضة متفوقة تبدو كأن المستقبل يفتح أذرعه بإتجاهها تحضر حفلات ، تشارك في الحياة ، لكنها فجأة تبدأ بالقيام بتصرفات غريبة دون سبب واضح تنحدر شيئا فشيئا بسبب اضطرابها العقلي حتى تصل إلى الجنون شاعرية بلاث وكل لحظاتها الجنونية سكبتها على الورق لذلك تتميز هذه الرواية إنها تأخذك لذلك العالم الجنوني من الداخل ، هذا العالم الغامض الساخر والذي تبدو فيه كل الأشياء مكشرة عن أنيابها ، العالم الذي أخل بحياة سيلفيا وانتصر على شاعريتها وقتل حيويتها ودفعها للإنتحار مرات عديدة حتى نجحت أخيرا !كانت الصخرة الرمادية تسخر مني وأنا طافية بسهولة كقارب نجاة ..كنتُ أعرف نفسي حين أهُزم ..لا تبدو هذه الرواية سوى سيرة ذاتية وإنسانية للشاعرة الأمريكية سيلفيا بلاث .. وهي إنعكاس لما طرأ عليها من تغيرات على طبيعتها وعلاقتها بالحياة والأشخاص بنظرة سوداوية نتيجة لإصابتها بمرض عصابي ..قامت بلاث بتغيير الأسماء وبعض الأحداث حافظا على مشاعر أقربائها .. وقدنشرت الرواية في حياتها باسم مستعار ثم أعيد نشرها بعد وفاتها ..( أن أيّ أحد بنصف عين سيلاحظ أن لاعقل في رأسي )كان الهم الذي يشغل بلاث هو الكتابة ... وبدا عجز استير عن اختيار طريق واحد يوصلها لهدفها أبان وقوعها تحت سطوة تلك النوبات سببا رئيسيا في مراجعتها للأطباء والمصحات النفسية فهي مرة تريد أن تتعلم الألمانية ومرة أخرى تريد أن تصنع الخزف ومرة تريد أن تكمل دراستها الجامعية إلخ كما تقول استير الأفكار تزدحم في راسها وتقفز كعائلة من الأرانب ..إلا أن هذه العائلة كانت مصابة بالشلل فاستير لا تفعل شيئا إنها تقف مليئة بالحيرة من الأمور اللافتة في هذه الرواية قضية العفة والتي كانت توصي بها والدة بلاث ابنتها .أن تحتفظ بعفتها لزوجها بل إنها كانت ترسل لها مقالات تذكيرية عن الموضوع لذلك عندما أحبت استير بودي كانت تعتقد أن موضوع العفة سيكون بالمقابل متوفرا عند رجلها المختار لذلك أصيبت بالصدمة عندما اعترف لها بودي بكل بساطة إن حياته لم تخلو من علاقات .. لذلك تحولت صورة الوسيم طالب الطب المثالي إلى شخص منافق .. لذلك اقترن اسمه طوال صفحات الرواية بالمنافق وهنا ظهرت بلاث بقمة براءتها وعفويتها حين تصورت أن الأمر سيكون متبادلا بين حبيبين .. تجمع الرواية بين تعقيد الشخصية وبين البساطة والشفافية وتتميز بالرشاقة في التعبير كون الكاتبة شاعرة بدت كلماتها حية صادقة وإن كانت الشخصية ذات جوانب معتمة وأنانية لامبالية في كثير من الأحيان بمشاعر الآخرين .. لاحظوا اضطراب الشخصية إلى أي حد وصل : أزعجني هذا الصوت الأقرب إلى صوت الحنزير ..ثم خطر ببالي أن الطريقة الوحيدة لوقف هذه الضوضاء هي أن أمسك العصب والعضلة معا حتى تقع أمي هامدة بين يدي ّ ! استير تنظر للأشياء بنظرة مختلفة تفسرها بطريقة أكثر إختلافا .. تلتقي بالغرباء تقيم علاقات من باب الفضول أحكامها تميل للتطرف للإشمئزاز وللإزدراء إلا إنها حملت شيئا ساحرا هو تلك الدهشة الطفولية خفة الدم وتقلّب المزاج والذي أظن أنه ربما تقاطعت فيه مع شخصية هولدن بطل رواية الحارس في حقل الشوفان لسالينجر إضافة للطبيعة المتمردة وحالة الضياع التي كانت تعيشها استير بينما ما ترغب به ومالا تستطيع القيام به بسبب وقوعها أسيرة ناقوسها الزجاجي والذي حكم عليها بحالة من الإكتئاب أدت في مرات عديدة لمحاولات الإنتحار ثم محاولات إنقاذها وبلاشك تجاربها الرهيبة مع الصدمات الكهربائية ثم دخولها مصحة الأمراض النفسية .. حين أزفت الساعة بدا جلد رسغي شديد البياض ، بلا حول ولا قوة فلم أتمكن من فعل ذلك ..كما لو أن الذي رغبتُ في قتله لم يكن في ذلك الجلد أو في الشريان الأزرق الرفيع الذي ينبض تحت إبهامي ..بل في مكان أعمقأكثر سرية .. ويصعب الوصول إليه ..يلزمني القيام بحركتين الرسغ الأول ثم الآخر ثلاث حركات لو أخذنا بالحسبان نقل موسى الحلاقة من يد إلى أخرى ثم سأنزل للحوض وأتمدد هناك ..من أكثر الأشياء المأساوية في هذا النص حديث سيلفيا عن الوسائل المثلى للإنتحار دون ألم دون قسوة لكنها اختارت لموتها إحدى أكثر الطرق بشاعة ..من داخل ناقوسها الزجاجي تأتي بلاث متوحدة مع ألمها الخاص مع جنونها عارية تماما من كل زيف ..
5749819923	3.5 ⭐️ rounded up to 4 ⭐️The Bell Jar was a bit of a head scratcher for me. It was not what I had expected based on its renown in the literary canon of feminism. I experienced it as a rather depressing novel about a young woman's struggle with mental health, with only a slight undertone of feminism. What was perhaps the most disturbing, yet realistic aspect of the story was that the protagonist, Esther Greenwood, despite crying out for help on countless occasions and exhibiting clear signs of depression was not taken seriously by her mother or doctors until it was nearly too late to save her. Eerily, this is something that sadly still happens to this day even when people show clear signs of mental distress. What I enjoyed most about The Bell Jar, apart from this true-to-life unravelling of Esther's mental health was the colorful, at times poetic prose that Plath used in her description of auxilliary characters and scenes in New York and Boston, in which the narrative unfolds. However, there were a few aspects of the story which somewhat diminished my enthusiasm for The Bell Jar. I found the development of some of the male characters quite flat and one-dimensional, almost bordering on unbelievable. This may arguably be a reflection of Esther's warped state of mind linked to her depression, which is further constrained by her naivete and limited life experience. Many of the unfortunate situations she finds herself in with various men, seem to arise at least partially due to her innocence and unsophistication, as opposed to the male patriarchy and sexism. Indeed, Esther's interactions with some male characters (Marco and Prof. Irwin in particular) seemed unnatural and weakly credible. I found it perplexing that Esther, despite instinctually having misgivings about these male characters, recklessly overrode her gut instincts which ultimately led her to be exposed to harm. Another quibble that I have with The Bell Jar is Plath's use of openly racist jargon when describing various characters and also Esther's antagonistic interaction with a Black orderly when she was in hospital. Admittedly, this may reflect the pre-Civil Rights era in which The Bell Jar was written, when racial slurs were acceptable in mainstream American society. In summary, I would recommend The Bell Jar to anyone who is open-minded and interested in expanding their literary horizons. My only word of caution is that this is not a light "happy go-lucky" read. So, I would suggest reading The Bell Jar when you are in a suitable mood.
3210500618	Il giovedì in cui ho finito di leggere La campana di vetro, mentre tornavo a casa in macchina dopo il lavoro, si è scatenato un acquazzone improvviso e violento. Mi sono fermata con le quattro frecce sul bordo della carreggiata ad aspettare che il turbine di acqua e grandine si calmasse un po’.I libri che ti restano accanto dopo averli finiti sono sempre i migliori, pensavo, e guardando la violenza del vento attraverso il vetro del finestrino, per un attimo ho immaginato Esther guardare una vita che non le appartiene attraverso il vetro della sua personale campana di vetro. Fuori il tumulto degli alberi scossi dal vento, dentro il rumore assordante della grandine sul vetro. Fuori la vita che scorre in un turbinio incessante, dentro un cuore che batte e ti ricorda che esisti, “io sono, io sono, io sono”. È facilissimo entrare nei panni di Esther, capire la sua fragilità nascosta dietro una voce cinica, tagliente, ironica perfino. È facilissimo volerle bene e starle accanto mentre sprofonda nel suo inferno privato, assistere - impotenti come lei - al senno che la abbandona pian piano per far spazio ad un terrore nudo, alla “sensazione di essere ricacciata sempre più in fondo a un sacco nero senz’aria e senza fine”. Nel racconto in prima persona si coglie una voce duplice, quella matura di Esther narratrice che si guarda indietro e - ormai guarita - ricorda e racconta, e quella infantile di Esther diciannovenne, disorientata e spersa, che lotta contro l’attrito di mille forze che la spingono verso strade che la società ha già spianato per lei. Ma lei lotta con le unghie e con i denti, fino ad essere schiacciata dalla possibilità di ciò che potrebbe essere, fino a desiderare la morte piuttosto che una vita vuota e asfissiante sotto la campana di vetro. Io ho amato ogni pagina, ogni frase ed ogni parola. È un libro doloroso per la sua autenticità e per la consapevolezza che l’epilogo di Esther non si trova all’ultima pagina. Eppure per libri così soffrirei altre mille volte. #AmericanLitClub, quante perle stiamo scoprendo 🤍
7332980826	I feel as though Sylvia Plath collected every thought I’ve ever had - the existential, the cynical, the regretful, the resentful, the obsessional, the observant, and the ordinary - and distilled it all into this book. Honestly, I’d give this book six stars - five for the book as a whole, and one extra for the fig passage. That passage may just be the most perfect use of metaphor I have ever come across in literature.
1913217322	I don’t get it. Lol. It felt like an episode of Seinfeld, entertaining yet there’s no rhyme or reason.
6789197745	My family book club is reading The Last Confessions of Sylvia P.. I started listening to The Last Confessions of Sylvia P. on audiobook and realized that I needed to reread The Bell Jar because it was continually referenced.I read The Bell Jar in high school but that was a very long time ago. The Bell Jar is harrowing, dark, and depressing as it describes the mental health descent of the main protagonist, Esther Greenwood. Greenwood is institutionalized at an asylum and receives electric shock treatments. Prior to her institutionalization, she attempts suicide by several means.Plath, a well-known poet and author, committed suicide in 1963 at age thirty.
