60790620	why haven't i read borges before?? no one knows. and he was always pushed upon me - "how can you like marquez if you haven't read borges??" "you like donoso - you should read borges." "machado is good, but you should read borges." so - fine - i did. and i am utterly underwhelmed. so there. i am learning during my "summer of classix" that most of the books i have for some reason or another overlooked were probably overlooked for a reason. i naturally gravitate towards what i like - and i seem to have a filter that prevents me from picking up too many books i don't. when i force it, this happens. and i liked some of the stories. but borges isn't for everyone (although scrolling down my "friends who have read" list, it looks as though all my friends gave it five stars.) and i'm not accusing you bitches of inflating your ratings, but i have the sense with borges that some people are guilted into liking him. or pretending that they like him more than they do because he's borges. but i won't be. because i am not ashamed of my intellectual shortcomings. i embrace them. i am incapable of abstract thought. fact. as hard as i try, that whole achilles/tortoise thing? does not compute. so all of this hexagon spiraling into hexagon on top of hexagon... i feel like i am back in college (where every single person i ever knew had a copy of this book. and was a stoner.)but this is classic stoner thinking-chains. reflections, labyrinths, it's perfect for that kind of mindset. "dooood, imagine we were in a hexagon right now??" and i know this makes sense to some people with philosophical and theological mindbents, but for me its almost pain. there were about 6 stories i liked, but the first few almost made me weep with trying to find the value in them. sorry, borges. we were never meant to be.mmmmkay - it seems that there are those who think it would be valuable "in a book review" to list the stories i did like. so: the shape of the sword, theme of the traitor and the hero, death and the compass, the secret miracle, three versions of judas, story of the warrior and the captive, emma zunz, the house of asterion, and the waiting. more than i thought i liked, but still - a sad minority.come to my blog!
1295265098	The stories, essays and parables in this Borges collection, with all their esoteric references to multiple histories, cultures and literatures, are no more likely to appeal to a casual reader then a textbook on cognitive psychology. To extract literary gold from highly intricate, complex works like The Garden of Forking Paths, Emma Zunz, The Library of Babel or The Zahir requires careful multiple readings as well as a willingness to occasionally investigate terms and references, for example here are several from The Zahir: The Book of Rites, Isaac Laquendem, The Nibelungen, the novel Confessions of a Thug, The Book of Things Unknown.And, speaking of The Zahir, if I were to move from referring to the tale itself to the ideas which lie behind it, how would my review read? What does it mean for a narrator to dissolve the universe into a single coin? Why does Borges describe, right at the outset, how at different times in the past the Zahir, a coin he was handed in a bar, morphed into a tiger, a blind man, a small compass, a vein in the marble of a pillar, the bottom of a well? How does one compress all time into this one sentence I am now writing? And what of the philosophical and cultural context in which Borges wrote this tale? Could a first-person short-story like The Zahir have been written in Ancient China? Medieval Persia? Colonial America? These are questions that lie outside the framework of this Borges tale. Or do they?Philosophical musing on the reality of the Zahir propels Borges (and us as readers) to multiple worlds: of a woman who seeks to makes every one of her actions correct to the point where she desires the absolute in the momentary; the dark light of the Gnostics; a dream where he, Borges the narrarator, becomes a pile of coins guarded by a gryphon. Then, after Borges’ fascination with the Zahir slides into obsession, driving him to seek out a psychiatrist, he writes, “Time, which softens memories, only makes the memory of the Zahir sharper. First I could see the face of it, then the reverse; now I can see both sides at once. It is not as though the Zahir were made of glass, since one side is not superimposed upon the other; rather it is as though the vision were spherical and the Zahir flutters in the center.”Such refection bring to mind Hesse’s The Glass Bead Game, where the beads are, in fact, made of glass and can represent, in turn, cosmic topology, a fugue of celestial spheres, variations on relational placement as in the colors and lines of a Mondrian or circles with plasticity in Vasarely; only the Zahir has about it more unity then plurality, and thus one Möbius strip, one musical note, one painting, one print. Toward the very end we read: “Others will dream that I am mad, while I dream of the Zahir. When every person on earth thinks, day and night of the Zahir, which will be dream and which reality, the earth or the Zahir?”Regarding the essays, Partial Magic in the Quixote opens us to a least a dozen unique angles in our approach to this Spanish classic; Kafka and His Precursors explores the connection of writers like Kierkegaard and Browning along with Zeno’s paradox to the famous author of The Metamorphosis; The Mirror of Enigmas delves into conundrums such as the symbolic significance of Sacred Scriptures and various forms of metaphysical writings as reflected on by, among others, Philo of Alexandria. Seven more essays will bend and stretch you mind in ways you never thought possible.In the parable, Borges and I, the author conducts a dialogue with himself as well as, take your pick - author, public persona, alter ego, younger self, older self, second self – and is uncertain as he concludes his parable who exactly is the author of the lines he has just written. Everything and Nothing is a parable featuring Shakespeare with a multiple identity crisis; another parable, The Witness, has the narrator brooding over memory and death and yet in another parable, Inferno 1,32, we encounter a leopard, Dante, and God in what could be viewed as a dreamscape.Reading Labyrinths years ago, I was inspired to write this micro-fiction as a tribute to Jorge Luis Borges:LIFE STORYThe bold letters on the cover read: Harold Blackman – Life Story. The book looks quite ordinary. One is required to make a special inspection to see a queer spring-like device along the spine. Harold Blackman opens the book before him. The title page is completely blank as are all the pages. He runs gnarled fingers, tips calloused and slightly trembling, lightly over this ghost of a title page and reflects on the long agonizing nights when he tried to pen the fire of his youth and the spume of his manhood without success. What he saw when the ink dried always left him feeling flat, unsettled. Closing his eyes, he repeats an incantation learned from a half-crazed Argentine, then opens them slowly, very slowly. Harold Blackman, weary adventurer, is now standing on the writing table, shrunken to the size of the book. Lying down on the title page, the back of his legs, buttocks and backbone relax to the paper’s slight give. He released a catch on the spine, the leather cover snapping shut with the vengeance of a mousetrap. But for a muffled groan all is silence. Over time, the blood seeps through the pages, forming, words, sentences, paragraphs.
1043367181	دو بورخسفكر كنم بايد بورخس رو دو بخش كرد. يك بورخس، بورخس "گاچو"هاست: گاوچران هاى امريكاى لاتين، و داستان هاى افسانه اى كه مردم راجع به بى رحمى و چاقوكشى و مردانگى و بى باكى اون ها ساختن. چیزی شبيه به لوطى هاى خودمون. هر چند اين بورخس هم از عناصر جادويى توى داستان هاى گاوچران ها استفاده مى كنه (مثل اين كه روح چاقوكش هاى بزرگ در دشنه هاشون حلول مى كنه و بعد از مرگشون همچنان از طريق دشنه ها به خونريزى ادامه ميدن) اما اين عناصر محدودن، و داستان ها حول محور گاوچران ها و دوئل هاشون و دشمنی ها و عشق های افسانه ای شون مى چرخن و از فضاى امريكاى لاتين بيرون نميرن.داستان هاى نصف اول كتاب، اغلب توى اين فضا هستن. و به خاطر تكرارى شدن سوژه هاشون ممكنه حوصله رو سر ببرن. من مدت ها قبل كه اين كتاب رو خوندم، به خاطر همين عدم جذّابيت و تكرارى شدن سوژه ها، كتاب رو نيمه كاره رها كردم، و حالا توى ريويوها ديدم كه بعضى از دوستان ديگه هم همين طور كتاب رو نصفه رها كردن.بورخس گاوچران ها دوست داشتنى هست، ولى اگه كار داستان نويسى ش رو به همين محدود مى كرد، فكر كنم هيچ وقت آوازه ش از كشورهاى لاتين فراتر نمى رفت.بورخس هزارتوهابورخس دوم، بورخس "هزارتو"هاست: داستان هایی غریب از شرق، جادوگری، عرفان، منطق الطیر عطار، هندوستان، عارفان قرون وسطا، کیمیاگری، و بیشتر از همه هزارتوها. دیگه کمتر اثری از آمریکای لاتین توی داستان ها هست، و داستان ها بیشتر و بیشتر رنگ و بوی اسطوره های بی زمان و بی مکان می گیرن. و جالب این که این بورخس دوم همزمان با شروع نابینایی بورخس، به دنیا اومد. انگار هر چی چشم ظاهریش به روی اینجا و اکنون بسته تر می شد، چشم درونیش به لامکان و لازمان بازتر می شد.این که چرا بورخسِ گاچوها، به بورخسِ هزارتوها تبدیل می شه، ریشه ش در کودکی بورخسه، که در کتابخونۀ قدیمی و بزرگ پدرش سپری شد. بورخس در مصاحبۀ آخر کتاب تعریف می کنه که چطور ساعت های متمادی در این کتابخونه می مونده و کتاب های قدیمی رو می خونده، از جمله هزار و یک شب که تخیل کودکانه ش رو سحر کرده بود. بورخس می گه: حالا که فکر می کنم من هنوز روحم توی همون کتابخونه باقی مونده و همچنان دست از خوندن کتاب های اون کتابخونه نکشیدم.اولین داستانی که بورخس رو از دنیای گاچوها درآورد و به دنیای هزارتوها وارد کرد، داستان "تقرّب به درگاه المعتصم" بود. بورخس این داستان رو در ۱۹۳۵ وقتی سی و شش ساله بود نوشت. تمام داستان در حقیقت "ریویو"ی یک رمان هندیه، که وجود خارجی نداره. هر چند لحن مقاله-مانند داستان، رفرنس ها و بحث های محققانۀ بورخس راجع به چاپ های مختلف رمان، باعث میشه خواننده فکر کنه که در حال خوندن یه مقاله است راجع به یه رمان واقعی.هم انتخاب سوژه (جادو، عرفان و شرق) و هم سبک (داستان-مقاله) بعدها، مخصوصاً بعد از نابینایی، به شکل اصلی داستان های بورخس تبدیل شد، و بورخس رو از یه نویسندۀ محلّی که آرژانتینی ها و شاید حداکثر مردم آمریکای جنوبی می تونستن با داستان هاش ارتباط برقرار کنن، به یه نویسندۀ بدون مرز تبدیل کرد که هر کسی که دغدغۀ ابدیت داشته باشه، می تونه توی داستان های رؤیامانندش غرق بشه، یا به عبارتی که خود بورخس بیشتر می پسنده: توی هزارتوهاش گم بشه.
1716807028	‘Tlön is surely a labyrinth, but it is a labyrinth devised by men, a labyrinth destined to be deciphered by men.’ Labyrinths is a collection of short stories, essays, and other literary works. It is my first experience with Borges, but it shall not be the last. Borges writes but he does more than that. He’s a chimaera, part philosopher, part academic, part historian, and part bibliognost. His vast accumulated knowledge penetrates his work to create meta fiction that feels truly authentic, thus one has constantly remind oneself that Borges pens works of fiction and not treatises. He bends thought, axioms, and orthodoxy in his readers. He asks that you submit to his mind. As a reward he elicits a delicious reverberation from his work and the beauty and wisdom of his stories that might appear vastly spread in theme and scope create a cohesive chef-d'oeuvre. It spotlights the mind, a labyrinth, of those before us, those that have been, might have been, those that have etched their names in the annals of history. They create the maze of thought that Borges, like Ariadne leading Theseus out of the Minotaur’s labyrinth, leads us through. After a taste of a small portion of his body of work, I have realized something vastly significant that I have missed. Fiction relies as much on the accumulation of knowledge as it is an art form, that words are not only chosen and arranged, that you don’t merely tell a story. But you create a world out of all the information you’ve learned, all the systems you’ve mastered, and all the theories you’ve dissected, all the things you’ve read. Maybe a writer is not like a divine creator who creates something out of nothing, but rather a modest chef who crafts something from the ingredients he has available to him. These ingredients we get from our experiences, our studies, our reading. Not only of fiction, but of philosophy, of different disciplines, of the ancients and of the myths. People say that the best chefs are the gastronomists. Might I presume to say the same thing for writers, that the best writers are those most widely read. And Jorge Luis Borges is as well read a writer as any other. He references both trendy works and works which no one reads anymore. He creates haunting phantasms full of familiarity and novelty, unmatched works unique in sentiment. He echoes the Cabbalists, the Greeks, the European philosophers, even Twain, yet his voice is unassumingly original. In the works of others he finds his reflection staring back at him. His pen is both an enigma and a revelation. ‘Thus my life is a flight and I lose everything and everything belongs to oblivion, or to him. I do not know which of us has written this page.’ I have walked the winding path inside the mind of Borges, and the walls of his words enchant me. If to be lost in his labyrinth is to be engulfed in silent brilliance, then I pray never to find my way again.
2353222008	بورخس یک جادوگر تمام‌عیار است. این را من نمی‌گویم. همین که کتاب را شروع کنید، او را می‌بینید که با لباس جادوگری و چوب‌دستی‌اش پشت داستان‌ها ایستاده و دارد جادو می‌کند. من مطمئنم که بورخس هم از طرفداران واقعی هزارویک شب است. او بعضی داستان‌ها را از روی دست شهرزاد نوشته و می‌شود او را از نوادگان شهرزاد دانست. شاید برای من همین کافی باشد که به کتابی که هزارویک شب جد و نیای آن حساب می‌شود پنج ستاره بدهم اما هزارتوهای بورخس چیزی بیش از این است. جهان داستان‌هایش اساطیری، مرموز، باستانی، رمزآمیز و آمیخته با جادوست. این‌که کلمه‌ی جادو را زیاد تکرار می‌کنم همه‌اش به خاطر دنیایی است که تازه از آن آمده‌ام و هنوز تا گردوغبار جادویی داستان‌ها را از خودم بتکانم ورد زبانم همین لغت است. بعضی از شخصیت‌ها انگار اسم اعظم و یا رمز کائنات همین لحظه سر زبان‌شان بوده اما لحظه‌ای بعد آن را فراموش کرده‌اند، بعضی‌هایشان قصه‌هایی از سفر در زمان را دارند و طوری از این اتفاق صحبت می‌کنند که هر آدم معمولی از خاطره‌ی مسافرتش. هر چند که فراموشی هم مضمونی گره خورده به این هزارتوهاست، ما یکبار تا ته دنیا رفته‌ایم انگار، همه‌ی چیزهای نامکشوف را کشف کرده‌ایم، همه‌ی علوم را دانسته‌ایم، راز خلقت را دریافته‌ایم، معمای هستی را هم حل کرده‌ایم اما کمی بعد همه‌چیز از یادمان رفته چون ما فراموشکاریم و دنیا بر مدار فراموشی ما می‌گردد.
1516605678	‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب 296 صفحه دارد و مجموعه ای از نوشته ها، روایتها، مصاحبه ها و اشعارِ «بورخس» است... بیشتر به تقدیر و ستایش از قهرمان هایِ جنگی و انقلابی در آرژانتین و زندگیِ و افکارِ آنها پرداخته است‎در ابتدایِ کتاب، مترجم «بورخس» را با «حافظ» مقایسه کرده است، که از دیدگاهِ من، اصلاً قابلِ مقایسه نیستند... در زیر تعدادی از نوشته هایِ این کتاب را برایِ شما بزرگواران به انتخاب، مینویسم---------------------------------------------------‎هزارتویِ پُرپیچ و خمی از گام ها‎که از روزهایِ من بافته شده است‎از روزِ تولدم تا کنون، مرا به این ساعتِ تباهی بسته است---------------------------------------------------‎پسربچه ای بودم که چیزی از مرگ نمیدانست، مرگ ناپذیر بودم‎و بعدها روزهایِ روز، اتاق هایِ بی آفتاب را به دنبالِ او کاویدم---------------------------------------------------‎شاید در مرگ، آن هنگام که خاک‎خاک است، ما برایِ همیشه‎این ریشۀ مرموز باشیم‎که بهشت یا دوزخِ بدن هایمان‎آرام یا وحشت بار‎جاودانه از آن خواهد رویید--------------------------------------------------‎در بینِ نوارهایِ شگفتِ خیزران‎راه راه هایِ بدنِ ببر را مینگرم و کالبدِ استخوانی را‎در زیرِ پوششِ پرشکوهِ پوستِ لرزان حس میکنم‎اقیانوس هایِ پرموج و زباله هایِ سیاره ها‎بیهوده ما را از یکدیگر جدا نگاه میدارند‎از اینجا در خانه ای دور دست، «آمریکایِ جنوبی» من تو را در رویا میبینم‎تو را دنبال میکنم، ای ببرِ کرانه هایِ گنگ‎اکنون که شامگاه، روحم را پُر میکند، در می یابم‎که ببرِ شعرِ من‎جانوری است در سایه ها، ببری از سَمبُل هاست‎و تکه پاره هایی که به تعفن از کتاب ها جمع آمده‎رشته ای از استعاره هایِ ماهرانه، که عاری از زندگی اند‎و نه ببرِ مقدر، جواهرِ مهلک‎که زیرِ خورشید یا ستارگان یا ماهِ افسونگر‎در بنگال یا سوماترا می خرامد‎و مأموریتِ روزانه اش را از عشق، کاهلی و مرگ به انجام میرساند--------------------------------------------------‎هوشنگِ گلشیری در پایانِ این کتاب نوشته: راستی نکند که «بورخس»، محصولِ رویایِ پدرِ کور خود باشد؟ و شاید هم بشود به شیوۀ «بورخس» گفت: آنکه در موردِ «بورخس» مینویسد، بیشتر در موردِ خودش، آثارِ خودش مینویسد... به راستی که سکۀ «بورخس» چنان فتنه میکند که گاه میترسم نکند کور شویم!، یا من میترسم--------------------------------------------------‎امیدوارم پسندیده باشید‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
636308321	Jorge Luis Borges, one of the most imaginative writers I have come across, could have been a mathematician, a physicist, a philosopher or a theologian. I can see his influence on Umberto Eco in the manipulation of text and the blending between fiction and reality. To read Borges’s Labyrinth is immerse myself in a magical world where the concept of infinity manifests in space and time, where the boundary between dream and reality fades, where the past and the future converge into an instant, where levels of texts superimpose on one another, where fiction imitates nonfiction and life is a drama on stage. To read Borges is to become children again, listening to stories of magic and wonder, of unfathomable worlds. In “Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius,” Borges creates a fictional world, where Berkeleyan idealism dominates its inhabitant’s thinking. “The world for them is not a concourse of objects in space; it is a heterogeneous series of independent acts.” Through the narrator Borges, we encounter a language without nouns, but with “personal verbs, modified by monosyllabic suffixes (or prefixes) with an adverbial value.” The author Borges has created an alternative world, where the language and the worldviews differ from our world and from it we learn of our biases and blind spots. And we can begin to imagine new worlds, new possibilities. We can create our own languages, as Tolkien has in his fiction, and as software engineers has BASIC, FORTRAN, PASCAL, and so forth. We see similar blending of fact and fiction in Umberto Eco’s The Prague Cemetery. In “The Garden of Forking Paths,” we encounter an infinitely long book where at every juncture of the story, all possibilities are written and the branches grow exponentially. “In all fictional works, each time a man is confronted with several alternatives, he chooses one and eliminates the others; in the fiction of Ts’ui Pen, he chooses—simultaneously—all of them. He creates, in this way, diverse futures, diverse times which themselves also proliferate and fork.” When I was younger, I have read stories where the reader can choose one of several actions—the decision tree—and turn to the appropriate page for that choice. The story continues from there until there is another choice. And the story would have several endings. After reading this story, I realize where the idea came from. Perhaps, Borges read about the many world interpretation of Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle, which states that before an observation, a system could be in various states—position, momentum, time, energy—according to a probability distribution and only when someone has observed the system—photons bouncing off the object—would it collapsed into a single state. In science fiction, such as Star Trek, we read about parallel universes but this may be the first story with such a concept. In “The Library of Babel,” Borges again plays around with the concept of infinity, but this time also with combinatorial and I can imagine Borges as a mathematician or computer scientist. A labyrinth of infinite number of rooms stores books that include all combinations of a 22-letter alphabet plus spaces and the comma and period. Since we know the number of characters in each book, we can calculate the number of possible books (not infinite). Of course, most of them are meaningless. Is this universe of repeated rooms each with five shelves and thirty-five books a mirror of our world? Interestingly, in Eco’s The Name of the Rose, the blind monk who oversees the library is named Jorge of Burgos.I have heard of the argument that Judas betrayed Jesus to force the latter to reveal his divinity and complete God’s work, but in “Three Versions of Judas,” the controversial theologian reinterprets the Biblical text and declares Judas the savior and God’s incarnation. “To save us, He could have chosen any of the destinies which make up the complex web of history; He could have been Alexander or Pythagoras or Rurik or Jesus; He chose the vilest destiny of all: He was Judas.” Borges’s fascination with text, whether historical documents or his own creation, dominates much of his stories and Eco certainly inherits that fascination. In “The Circular Ruins” where a man is only another’s dream figment and “The Theme of the Traitor and the Hero” where a man’s execution for betrayal is part of a drama, Borges again mixes fact with fiction to create worlds as ephemeral as mist. I recommend Labyrinth to anyone who wants to dream of magical worlds, who wants to reflect on reality and fiction, who wants to analyze the boundary between text and the interpreter, and who wants to contemplate on the nature of infinity.
4310611218	111th book of 2021.Borges has the great gift and frustration of being wonderfully readable and hard to understand at the same time: a sort of bonus paradox/labyrinth/conundrum. It’s been a short time since I first read Ficciones so I read them again as they are here within Labyrinths and found myself enjoying them more and finding them “deeper” (by which I mean more profound). “The Secret Miracle”, for example, is a beautiful, beautiful, story: it is hopeful and saddening, cathartic. Part of a sentence runs, ‘Then he reflected that reality does not usually coincide with our anticipation of it’, and how true is that? For things are always less scary, more terrifying, more hurtful, less dangerous, than we anticipate. The usual suspects still hold up too— “The Garden of Forking Paths”, “The Library of Babel”, etc. Labyrinths also contains some essays which move through Dante, Cervantes, Shakespeare. It’s reading Borges’ essays that we realise that they are not too dissimilar from his stories and that they can be equally frightening and labyrinthine (and I discovered on this reading, Dickian?) than his fiction. The end of the essay “Partial Magic in the Quixote” reads, Why does it disturb us that the map be included in the map of the thousand and one nights in the book of the ‘Thousand and One Nights’? Why does it disturb us that Don Quixote can be a reader of the ‘Quixote’ and Hamlet a spectator of ‘Hamlet’? I believe I have found the reason : these inversions suggest that if the characters of a fictional work can be readers of spectators, we, its readers or spectators, can be fictitious. In 1833, Carlyle observed that the history of the universe is an infinite sacred book that all men write and read and try to understand, and in which they are also written. Perhaps the greatest essay ending I’ve read. And his essay on Kafka (“Kafka and his Precursors”) captures the history of literature too with the line, ‘The fact is that every writer creates his own precursors. His work modifies our conception of the past, as it will modify the future.’ Kafka is blessed to have this essay and David Foster Wallace’s essay, “Some Remarks on Kafka’s Funniness from Which Probably Not Enough Has Been Removed”. I may add more to this as I work my way back out of Borges’ labyrinths.
177917645	For a few years in my early 20s I was obsessed with this book. Some of these stories I have read probably 10 times. The opening story ('Tlon, Uqbar, Orbius Tertius') is one of the most challenging, rewarding mind-f**ks in all literature. Borges's style is limited — this becomes clearer in his later work — but for me this collection is superbly chosen. Rarely has so much innovation been crammed into so short a space, but innovation of the controlled kind. No displays of histrionics for this Argentine; his stories are well-wrought and concise. Every story or essay seems to focus on a paradox and explode it. Is it only me or does anyone else see a bit of Borges in Philip K. Dick? And why are the Borg (Star Trek: The Next Generation) called the Borg? I mean, the librarian in The Name of the Rose was called Jorge for a reason. What I'm saying is these days Borges's influence seems to be everywhere. Or is it just that he condensed so many of the key themes in literature down to such a fundamental state that now it seems as if he owns them?A pre-post-modernist without whom I doubt Eco or Italo Calvino could have turned out as they did, Borges is everything that's good about those two younger Italians condensed down into something you can swallow. In the mind-bending short story stakes only Edgar Allan Poe comes close. Life-changing.
3758661225	آنکه بتواند گلی را درک کند قادر است همه جهان را درک کند."عالی بود"
1766501696	"It is doubtful that the world has a meaning; It is even more doubtful that it has a double or triple meaning, the unbeliever will observe." Jorge Luis Borges has composed only small essays and short fictional works.Somebody told me that he is very intelligent and writes in a mathematical style. What? Maths in Fiction! No not maths. Only mathematical style! He was an Argentine by birth and through this book, I was reading him for the first time in detail. His Emma Zunz was the only story I had read so far. I was not let down. Not only mathematical, I found his fiction universal and too much symbolic also. Those features are very clear and visible. This book contains some twenty-three short works of fiction and almost ten essays. Essays are also short and precise. There are some short parables in the end.I began with the Essays first and read the essay titled "The wall and the books" , where he presented his thoughts on the Chinese emperor who erected the Wall of China and ordered to burn all the books that were published before him, to erase the history. He wanted history to start from his reign. Borges has expressed his thoughts on such an emperor and his tendency of burning history. There are some other interesting essays too, "Kafka and his precursors" and " The Mirror of enigmas". I found them enlightening.In the short stories, there is such precision that I can only call it masterly!"Why to take five hundred pages," he asks " to develop an idea whose oral demonstration fits into a few minutes." This statement confirms his attitude and approach. There are mysteries and detective tales. His metaphysical fiction took me time to get hold of. Borges once claimed that the basic devices of all the fantastic literature are only four in number: the work within the work, the contamination of reality by the dream, the voyage in time, and the double! Aren't these parameters interesting?Out of the stories, the first story that I read was " the Garden of the forking path". I will call it an interesting philosophical rumination, It's a riddle and parable and its theme is time. Labyrinth of time!"The Lottery in Babylon " was another one that I read, here in an ancient town people play the lottery- lottery. They pay in copper coins and hope to win silver coins in return and it is beautifully written. The narrator comes from a dizzy land where the lottery is the basis of reality. "I have known what the Greeks do not know. Certitude." The Babylonians threw themselves into the game and those who did not acquire chances were considered pusillanimous, and cowardly. Lottery becomes life there, Somebody wrote that this story was an allegory of totalitarianism. Maybe it was but for me, it was a story of chance and the author played amazingly well with the vehemence of human nature and emotions.There are other stories and essays that I liked in this book, I am going to revisit Borges again for sure, While reading these stories, especially the above two that I mentioned, the one contemporary author who instantly appeared in my imagination was Orhan Pamuk, because similar traits and philosophical ruminations with the mathematical precision, I had experienced in his books too. There is one thing that I would like to say in the end though I liked his work in this book for its symbolism, many people may dislike it for the same reason, because If you don't like such prose, You may find it dull and dreary. For me, the book was a winner.
2805678593	‏ امید و ترس را شناختم.صورت‌های توامان آینده‌ی نامعلوم را .بیخوابی را شناختم.خواب را، رؤیاها را،جهل را،جسم را،هزار‌تو‌های مدور عقل را،دوستی انسان‌ها را،عبودیت کورسگان را.مرا دوست داشتند ،شناختند،ستودند،و از صلیب آویختند.‏
1765889493	LABIRIN BERNAMA BORGES"Thinkin’ is a lonely business."―Martin HeideggerBORGES, seumur hidupnya, memiliki nasib baik untuk selalu berdekatan dengan buku dan literatur. Semenjak kecil ia sering menghabiskan waktu di perpustakaan ayahnya. Di sana lah, di antara ribuan buku berbahasa Inggris, fragmen paling penting buat Borges kecil—yang kelak mempengaruhi jalan hidupnya. Siapa sangka, di masa tuanya Borges diangkat menjadi direktur perpustakaan nasional.Barangkali bertolak dari pengalaman itu ia membuat cerita pendek di mana tokohnya gemar menelusuri literatur, sejarah, dan kultur dari dunia luas. Dalam buku Labyrinths, Borges mengarang plot yang membuat tokohnya menyusuri halaman-halaman ensiklopedia untuk mengetahui apa itu Uqbar dan Tlön (dalam Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius) dan, tanpa keraguan akan jadi membosankan, menampilkan 19 nomor literatur karya Menard pada satu cerita pendek (Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote). Juga pada beberapa cerpen yang lain, Borges tampak sebagai pembaca tekun yang mencoba memahami labirin-labirin literatur perpustakaan. Gejala yang sering kita temui: Borges melakukan banyak penyebutan referensi. Gema dari ruang pikirannya seakan tak mau berhenti.Saya ingat satu kalimat dari Orhan Pamuk yang mungkin relevan untuk melihat Borges: "The starting point of true literature is the man who shuts himself up in his room with his books."●●●André Maurois menyakini sumber-sumber bacaan Borges "tak terhitung dan tak terduga". Borges membaca apa yang orang jarang tertarik, seperti Kabalis atau filosofi zaman pertengahan (saya pernah mendengar orang berkata, hanya Umberto Eco yang mungkin menyamai antusiasme tersebut). Ia mengagumi keganjilan hubungan antara tidur dan mimpi, dan untuk itu mengutip cerita Qur'an 1400 tahun yang lalu tentang pemuda Kahfi (The Secret Miracle). Dari sumber-sumber nyata itu Borges mencampurkannya dalam detail dan sitasi yang membuat kita kadang berpikir fiksi Borges adalah potongan realitas. Tapi dunia cerita Borges tetaplah cuma imajiner. Dan dalam labirin imajiner itulah (bukan dunia yang penuh langkah-langkah kaki dan percakapan ramai), kita diajaknya ikut serta. Kita seperti tokoh dalam The Circular Ruins: seorang lelaki yang berusaha menciptakan manusia dalam mimpi, dan akhirnya menyadari, setelah tidak terbakar oleh api, bahwa ia sendiri ciptaan imajiner dari orang lain yang bermimpi―apa yang kelihatan nyata rupanya hanya bagian dari ilusi.Borges meringkus labirin-labirin imajiner itu dalam bentuk cerita pendek yang seperti esai: hampir seluruhnya narasi dan sarat misteri. Satu lagi: tidak banyak dialog antartokoh di dalamnya. Dengan itu Borges menciptakan dunia rekaan yang menurutnya masuk akal dan berusaha menawarkan makna, misalnya tentang eksistensi manusia, dalam bentuk yang mungkin tidak bisa diungkapkan melalui jalan lain. Dalam salah satu interviu dengan Denis Dutton, Borges mengaku menggunakan filosofi untuk cerita pendek sebagaimana Dante menggunakan teologi untuk puisi. Borges menyebut karangan-karangan itu "fiksi filosofi" ketimbang "fiksi sains". Bagi Borges, memasuki lorong-lorong ide, melontarkan kontradiksi, dan menguraikan drama kemungkinan-ketakmungkinan dalam cerita pendek adalah caranya untuk skeptis. Maka kita sering menemukan paradoks, serangkai ketakjelasan, ketika mencoba memahami cerita-ceritanya: tiap kali kita harus menerkanya seperti teka-teki dan membacanya berulang kali.●●●Salah satu ketegangan intelektual yang sempat menjadi perhatian Borges adalah, meski ia lahir di Buenos Aires, kita tak melihat yang khas Argentina dalam cerita-ceritanya. Di The Garden of Forking Paths ia membuat karakter Yu Tsun dan Ts'ui Pên―nama Tiongkok, sekaligus dengan mudahnya mengutip Seribu Satu Malam, Newton, dan Schopenhauer. Di Funes the Memorious ia membicarakan seorang Uruguay, menyamakannya dengan Zarathustra, dan menyebut baberapa kota dan negara dalam satu cerita: Monteviedo, San Franscisco, London, New York, Mesir. Di The Lottery in Babylon ia narator yang mengaku sebagai orang Babilonia―sebuah negeri dari dunia yang lama. Di The Shape of the Sword ia menulis mengenai orang Irlandia yang terlibat perang sipil dan melarikan diri ke Brazil. Saya mengira semua itu ada hubungannya dengan hidupnya yang sejak kecil berpindah-pindah dan terbiasa dikelilingi bahasa-bahasa yang mewakili peradaban besar dunia. Tentu ada yang lebih mendasar dari itu. Dalam esai The Argentine Writer and Tradition, Borges mengajukan proposal bahwa penulis-penulis Argentina, termasuk dirinya, kurang-lebih mengacu pada tradisi kultur Barat. Maka jika kita tak menemukan topografi atau botani Argentina dalam sebuah karangan, bagi Borges, hal itu tak seharusnya mengurangi nilai karangan tersebut. Pada cerita Theme of the Traitor and the Hero, misalnya, Borges lebih memilih berbicara tentang kemungkinan sebuah plot di mana seorang Irlandia bernama Ryan ingin mencari tahu kebenaran mengenai Fergus Killpatrick, satu tokoh yang dianggap hero. Di sana kita menemukan latar Irlandia dan kutipan nama-nama terkenal dalam tradisi Barat: Chesterton, Leibniz, Hugo, Hegel, Shakespeare. Meski punya dasar yang universal, saya menduga (bukan bermaksud memutuskan) fiksi filosofi Borges mudah untuk tak populer. Gaya bercerita Borges yang intelektual masih terlalu luks untuk, misalnya, kelas menengah ke bawah. Hanya orang-orang yang mencintai ilmu dan sastra yang saya kira akan konsisten membaca karangan Borges. Sebab cerita-ceritanya memang punya kecenderungan labirin yang ruwet: di tengah-tengahnya kita mungkin tersesat, dan tidak tahu bagaimana caranya untuk selamat. Sementara Borges tak ingin menjadi pengarang yang memberi terang. Ia telah menyatakan undur diri dari cerita―dalam satu interviu ia mengatakan: "[W]e have no message at all. When I write, I write because a thing has to be done. I don't think a writer should meddle too much with his own work. He should let the work write itself."●●●Tentu saja dugaan saya tak harus dipercaya.Perspektif yang lebih optimis mengatakan bahwa cerita-ceritanya, seperti dikatakan James E. Irby, semacam sintesa antara penemuan dan pencerahan. Oleh karena itu Borges memukau. Borges, misalnya, memaparkan tafsiran sinologis Stephen Albert dalam usahanya untuk mengerti kalimat "I leave to the various futures (not to all) my garden of forking paths" dan mengklaim menemukan maksudnya. Atau bagaimana Borges mendalami pertentangan antara apa yang asli dan imitasi ketika seseorang punya ikhtiar menuliskan kembali kisah Quixote dari Cervantes. Pada kali lain, ia seorang detektif, Erik Lönnrot, yang berusaha menemukan titik cerah atas kasus pembunuhan yang berkaitan dengan kalimat misterius seperti ayat kitab suci.Saya sedikit banyak setuju dengan Irby: saya seorang pembaca yang mengamati titik-titik terang dari segala kerumitan yang ditemukan Borges, dan dengan rasa penasaran, seperti sang narator dalam Funes the Memorious, saya akan mengatakan: "I don't know how many stars he could see in the sky". Saya ingat Søren Kierkegaard yang mengatakan, kita “seharusnya tidak berpikir buruk tentang paradoks, karena paradoks adalah gairah pikiran. Seorang pemikir tanpa paradoks bak seorang pecinta tanpa gairah: seorang medioker”.Tapi ketimbang cerita-cerita pendek Borges, saya seorang pembaca yang lebih kena pesona oleh parabel-parabelnya. Mungkin karena parabelnya ringkas dan saya tak ingin terlihat selalu bodoh di hadapan kerumitan cerita Borges―saya diam-diam menandai hal itu sebagai sebuah kelegaan.
6633965	Borges typically gets lumped into the South American "magical realism" genre along with the likes of Gabriel Garcia Marquez (whom I've still yet to read; shame on me). But his style is very peculiar. The book is supposed to be a collection of short stories, or as Borges himself called them, ficciones. But few of them are what one would typically consider stories at all. They tend to be short fictional essays, book reviews, obituaries, articles, etc. (There's also a detective story and a couple of first hand narratives.) Borges reviews books that have never been written, eulogizes people who have never lived, and writes articles refuting scholars that don't exist. And why? The best I could tell was that he wanted to explore what the world would be like if modern philosophy were actually true. He toys with Bishop Berkeley's idea that the physical world need not necessarily exist. So long as the sense perceptions it supposedly creates affect our consciousness it's material existence is superfluous. He also plays with Hume's denial of the existence of personal identity. Need it necessarily be the case that this string of sense perceptions which I call myself has any actual unity? Need it necessarily constitute a "person" at all? What if it is nothing more than a random string of impressions? Also, Borges enjoys meddling with the sequence of time itself. If two events happened in exactly the same way, why could they not simply be the same event? Is it necessary to posit the idea of temporal sequence at all? Could not all moments be entirely unrelated to each other? If these thoughts sound bizarre, that's because they are. But the "philosophers" are out there thinking them and Borges fictional rendering of their implications is as interesting a presentation of these ideas as one is likely to run across.Another major theme of Borges thinking, and perhaps the most representative expression of his view of reality, centers on the notion of Labyrinths. For him, the mystery of reality can be best summarized by as a grand labyrinth. It is a puzzle which gives the appearance of reason/order to those trapped within its confines but which in truth is nothing more than an elaborate game. What does one accomplish upon reaching the center of a labyrinth? Is there indeed any purpose at all to the journey? And yet how can a man help but attempt it? Yet ultimately there is no meaning behind the movement; only the appearance of meaning; truly a torturous state for humans to find themselves in. But then again, that's where the modern quest has left us all at present. Final verdict: interesting but not amazing. Intensely cerebral fiction and so probably not to the taste of everyone; but short enough to make some dabbling in the work worthwhile.
3617908442	It's eighty-one years since the earliest of these stories was published in Spanish, fifty-eight since they appeared in English. Academic critics have spent years or decades studying them. What could I, an ordinary reader, possibly have to say about this collection that won't have been said before? The answer is 'zilch', of course. Consequently, these notes are merely an aide memoire to my reading and offer no original insight. In my preferred reading, it all begins with Kafka and Borges. Calvino, Perec, Sebald - they all tip their caps to these two masters. For me, the early Borges stories constitute an ur-text, tales to be consulted again and again. Borges was fascinated with immortality and in the composition of these short tales, he discovered the closest thing to it. My bookshelves have long possessed two volumes of Borges's works, Ficciones and Labyrinths. Borges had been largely ignored by the English-speaking world (now there's a surprise, isn't it?). In 1962, two overlapping collections arrived, an event that must surely have amused the author. Both collections were translated by collectives, the former dominated by Anthony Kerrigan, the latter to a lesser extent by James Irby (it's telling that neither man rates his own page in the English language Wikipedia). I have to say, I find Kerrigan's translations the more elegant, notwithstanding the appearance of a third collection translated by Andrew Hurley (also on my shelves). Perhaps, one day, there will be an infinite number of translations. Ficciones comprises The Garden of Forking Paths (1941) and Artifices (1944). Labyrinths takes selections from Ficciones and from El Aleph (1949), adding to them a number of early essays and 'parables' from the collection El Hacedore (1960). In so doing, the Irby and Yates collection omits The South, unforgivably, in my opinion. Labyrinths, libraries, the infinite, eternity, death, dreams, unreality, repetition, heresiarchs, demiurges, big cats, secret societies, crime fiction, the bible, the Koran, Quixote, Shakespeare, Berkeley, Hume, Schopenhauer... These are some of the materials out of which Borges spins his yarns of the fantastic and the metaphysical. A condemned man asks God for one more year to write his masterwork, with unforeseen consequences (it's clearly one of those demiurges who took the call). A man sleeps among ancient sacred ruins to dream alive a son. Again, the results are unpredictable. An academic rewrites three chapters of The Quixote by living out the process of its construction. It is identical word-for-word to the original but is better than Cervantes' version. An apparently simple boy learns that his memory is infinite. A librarian (Borges's day job) works in an infinite building in which all books are possible but most constitute random gibberish (Borges surely foresaw the internet-assisted rise of self-publishing). There are stories here that would earn the collection five stars by themselves, even if the remainder were garbage, which they're not, of course. Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius, The Lottery in Babylon, Funes the Memorius, Death and the Compass... ah, what works! Imagine having written just one of those. I do feel that there's an ever-so-slight dropping off of the consistency in El Aleph (the title tale of which is omitted, for some reason). The Immortal, The Zahir and The Waiting are all classic Borges, though. Borges never wrote a 1000-page work, not for him the Great Argentine Novel - all the better for us and our literary indolence. Besides which, Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius achieves more than most books fifty times its length. I like to think of Borges as being that little bit too laid back to bother with the writing of novels, having too much fun hanging out with Adolfo Bioy Casares, Victoria and Silvina Ocampo. It's worth noting what a remarkable effort has been made to describe the book on its Goodreads page. One of the editors is James Yerby and it merely contains a list of the contents, lacking correct capitalisation and with some howlers: Tiön, uqbar, Orbis Tertius, Emmas Zunz, The Zhir! I'm not worthy to be a Goodreads librarian, apparently, so I don't think I can correct it. Many people use the internet for relentless self-promotion, so why should I be any different? Here's my tribute: The Brief Literary Career of Lewis Burgess. You could even increase its woeful 'like' count!
2713784910	البورخس مالبورخس و ما ادراک مالبورخسبه شیوه دکتر درون گرا :D
21966504	This is the first Borges book I ever read. Since then, of course, he's died and all of his short stories have been collected in English. Mike Miley, the person who spends more money on books than anyone I've ever known (and is very generous in sharing them), purchased that complete collection, bringing it up to the cottage in Michigan during his last visit. When I saw it amidst Michael's travel bags (a small one for clothes, a big one for books and papers) I immediately asked if I could have at it. Permission granted, I probably got through the whole thing--and it's long--in a couple of evenings and nights by the wood-burning stove. Thus, all of the Labyrinths stories have been read at least twice now.What I particularly like about Borges is his creative erudition. Not only is he good at mimicking the style, say, of a early sixteenth century Spanish bureaucrat, but he cleverly mingles the real with the fantastical in his often copious references, notes and asides. It makes one wonder who is to be credited for the technique which is also employed by the American authors James Branch Cabell and H.P. Lovecraft.P.S. Borges visited Loyola University shortly before his death in the eighties, speaking in its chapel--perhaps the only event I ever attended there.
382018403	Mind-blowingly awesome. I only wish that for the first book that I read of Borges that it was either all short stories or all essays; I had difficulty making the transition from the last story to the first essay because the lyrical cadence of his writing style made his beautifully written essays seem almost fictive. The parables at the very end of the compilation were the cherries on top. Borges' love of all things Quixote makes me want to hunker down with that book and read, re-read, and re-re-read it until it has the mantric effect that it apparently had on him. Dostoevsky made me want to learn Russian to read him in his native language - Borges has the same effect on me w.r.t. Spanish. I'm reminded yet again how embarrassing it is to be an American monoglot.
2867374043	فکر نمیکنم هنوز اونقدری کتاب خونده باشم ک بتونم نظری در مورد این کتاب بدم تنها چیزی ک میتونم بگم اینه ک واقعا کتاب عجیبی بود!
452990523	Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges not only possessed one mouthful of a name but a great literary talent. There is much that could be criticised in his manner and style, in many of his pieces his 'fictions' come across as formulaic, mathematical and structured, which at times fails to allow emotion to be properly conveyed. Yet Borges was a conscious and thinking author, despite appearing to err on the logical side of the writing spectrum, addressing his fictional work as a means to explore deep philosophical or metaphysical ideas and concepts. What is further fascinating is that Borges also created some fictional book titles, referenced in an academic way to add toThere are some who have said that Borges mainly wrote such very short and compact fictions (I consciously refer to these as 'fictions' because they lack the same narrative structure as a typical short story) because he possessed a degree of 'laziness' as a writer. Not that Borges did not possess a work ethic, after all he wrote many deeply thought out stories, but more that Borges did not have the patience and desire to write longer and to go through the paces of working outIf one looks at the period in which Borges was alive - 1899 to 1986 - one can notice pretty quickly the significance. Borges was alive through both World Wars and the Cold War. In that sense, Borges is the quintessential 20th Century author. He, more than anyone, shows in his writing how the events of his era defined his ideologies and shows off aspects of modernity and pre-post-modernity. Borges is an author who not only thinks deeply but experiments. Each of his fictions play on different genres, crafting parodies of detective fiction, theological debate, fantasy (or magical realism), horror and so on. Borges sometimes moves into creating a pastiche, but more commonly his parody is actively pushing against genre boundaries. He will start the reader on a particular path, only to pause at a set point and reveal to the reader how and what he is doing in regards to genre.There are a selection of different themes that Borges regularly repeats. The word 'labyrinth' or some variation often makes its way into his lexicon along with mirrors, libraries, novels, theology, tigers (or jaguars) and knives. Each of these words helps provide a particular intertextual and metalinguistic function, linking Borges entire oeuvre together. Indeed, it is fascinating that the title of his work here is 'Labyrinths' considering the regularity in which the phrase appears. It is also interesting that considering the title, the piece I found most appealing in this work was 'The House of Asterion'. In this, Borges takes a look at the tale of Asterion (view spoiler)[The Minotaur (hide spoiler)] from a new, modern perspective. Many know the story of the labyrinth and Daedalus (interestingly Borges himself becomes a kind of Daedalus of fiction) but Borges takes that story and breathes new life into it, though the story itself is only two and a half pages long.Unlike a maze, a labyrinth has only one set path with no choices and one exit that serves to be the same as the entrance. Borges himself constructs labyrinths out of text, questioning as Plato did, whether there is one real version of everything that is corporeal. A real version existing elsewhere, beyond reality. This does not mean that Borges finishes where he began, necessarily, however his work does lead the reader on a set path before causing them to look back and recognise that the way back is the very same way they have come.The work of Jorge Luis Borges is a must read for any individual with a deep love for important literature classics. His work, for its sheer influence on modernist authors and postmodern authors and on to the current era, should be recognised as tremendously influential and remains important today. Though Borges, I have come to see, is more of an acquired taste, his work sparkles from time to time with truly appealing thought and wisdom.
4563251179	Last year I read Ficciones. That was my first date with Borges. Then I found Labyrinths and began reading it on the first day of 2022. Since all the stories from Ficciones are included in this volume, I read them again and understood them better.If you read widely you will have run into this author's name many times. He achieved something like sainthood among authors of various genres. I decided I had to find out why. I read one entry per day for almost two months. Some I found mind-blowing. Others I understood not at all. I don't regret the time spent, even if he refutes time. I now see his influence in so many authors and novels and stories. I also feel freed up in my own writing or at least a bit more daring.Our second date was more fun even though I could not hang on his every word. In the last entry he wrote his own elegy!
2698620794	هزارتوهای بورخساین کتاب یک رقص بین افسانه و واقعیت، گذشته و آینده، خون و ترس، آرژانتین و اروگوئه، خیام و فیتزجرالد، ظاهر و باطن و هرچیزی هست و نیست یا باور نمیکنید و ایمان دارید.این کتابیه که حق "کلمه" رو به درستی ادا میکنه.پ ن: دی ماه ۱۴۰۲بعد از خوندن داستان کوتاه های چخوف، جویس، مارکز، همینگوی، و خیلی های دیگه به این کتاب برگشتم و باید بگم این داستانها چیز دیگه ای هستند، متفاوت، زیباتر ‌و بسیار درخشان‌تر، نه از نظر ادبی و تحلیل فرم بلکه انتقال حسی که نویسنده به خواننده منتقل می‌کنهدرود تمام خدایان چه واقعی، چه خیالی بر تو بورخس
1758498806	من دیگر از کائنات چیزی درک نخواهم کرد. "ظاهر" را درک خواهم کرد. بنابر تعلیم ایده‌آلیست‌ها کلمات "زندگی کردن" و "خواب دیدن" سخت با هم مترادفند. از هزاران تصویر به یکی خواهیم پرداخت، و از رویایی در نهایت پیچیدگی به رویایی در کمال سادگی. دیگران به خواب خواهند دید که من دیوانه‌ام، من "ظاهر" را به خواب خواهم دید. هنگامی که همه مردمان زمین، شب و روز به "ظاهر" بیندیشند، چه چیزی رویا خواهد بود و چه چیزی واقعیت؟ زمین یا "ظاهر"؟از متن کتاب
2347602030	I started reading Labyrinths more than twenty years ago. I gave up and abandoned it thinking that I wasn't intellectually mature enough to appreciate it - after all it was so highly lauded that the fault must surely be mine. With some considerable reading experience under my belt in intervening years I came back to this collection of short stories in the hope of, well I'm not too sure in the hope of what, I don't find it particularly helpful to come to any text or piece of art with too many preconceptions, but if I had a hope it was at least to enjoy the book. This was not to be. The stories in this book are cultural spinach, undoubtedly made of fine stuff, but impossible to enjoy, and with at least as much time spent picking at the bits that got stuck between my teeth as being transported by the writing. Does this make me an ignoramus? Perhaps. But I'm not going to pretend to enjoy a book I didn't, and indeed couldn't, any more than I will go out of my way to eat spinach no matter how healthy and high-minded it might be to do the opposite.
2285111307	.داستانْ صحبت خواهیم کرد، زمانی که غنی باشیم
1613853366	از بورخس همیشه حافظه جمعی رو یاد گرفتم،اینکه نیمرخ بلیت‌فروش مترو، شاید نیم‌چهره‌ی مسیح باشد!عالمی جدای از دیگر عوالمست، بورخس
3003937436	لابیرنت برایم با این کتاب معنا شد!بورخس مرد کتاب و جادو، دشنه و آئینه.لایه اول، اسم کتاب‌ استلایه دوم، خود کتابلایه سوم، داستان‌هابعد شعرهابعد مقاله‌هاو...داستان‌های کوتاهی که با دشنه و مرگ و مبارزه آغاز می‌شود هویت‌ها مدام در چرخش‌اند.جای راوی‌ها مدام عوض می‌شودشعر‌ها ارتباط غریبی با داستان‌ها پیدا می‌کنند.از داستان کنگره سبک و محتوا به تدریج عوض می‌شود و به قصه‌های هزارویک شب، سندباد بحری، عرفان مشرق زمین، کلیسا و مسیحیان، جادو و طلسم تغییر می‌کند.مقاله دیوار چین و کتاب‌ها نگرش تازه‌ای به چین کهن داشت.از منظر من جالبترین قسمت‌ها داستان‌های بازگفته و ویرانه‌های مدور بود.چند داستان هم با محوریت هزارتو قلمی شده بود که نقطه اوج قصه‌های بورخس در این کتاب به شمار می‌رفت.برای یافتن لایه‌های بعدی خواندن این کتاب ضروریست!
5922928	just give everything with the name 'borges' five stars. immediately.
338138426	Labyrinths by Jorge Luis Borges, this book is divided in three parts; FICTION, ESSAYS and PARABLES. Basically all this three sections comprises of STORIES OF IDEAS with the blend fact and fiction. Jorge Luis Borges seeks neither truth nor likelihood; he seeks astonishment by using metaphysics as a branch of the literature of fantasy (Like he quoted in his "Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius"). He uses themes of philosophy, politics, economics, mathematics etc and raises “n” number of paradoxes which is beyond comprehension. From this collection of fiction, essays and parables I am just going to put forward my comments on few (because of my laziness). The Garden of Forking Paths (My favourite in this collection.): This story follows the journey of a German spy during World War I who meets a Professor who is lost in the Labyrinths of unfinished book written by his great grandfather, which is completely contradicting. Like in the third chapter the hero dies and in the fourth he is alive.In this story Borges discuses about the “Dimensions of time” or “Infinite series of time”. The unfinished book (which not really unfinished) is structured with the all the possible outcomes of a single event(Chance Of Probabilities). This concept of Jorge Luis Borges is well portrayed in the movies like: Sliding Doors (English), Blind Chance (Polish), Run Lola Run (German), 12B (Tamil - Indian). Even all the new generation video games are designed with this concept. I don’t know whether any game designers thank Jorge Luis Borges for developing such a wonderful concept. “All the time co-exist.” The Circular Ruins: This is a version of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Jorge Luis Borges in his own way. Dreams, thoughts in our sleep; the narrator is stationed in a ruined of a burned shrine, his principle objective is to dream a man: he wanted to dream him with minute integrity and insert him into reality but night after night, the narrator dreams the man as asleep and eventually the narrator makes out life is nothing but a dream. Don’t assume the narrator himself is dreaming ...its Borges, we cannot assume.... he is a genius. The Library of Babel: The whole universe is visualized in to a vast library with galleries hexagonal shapes and the books with the specified format, a library which doesn't just have a lot of books, it has every book that could be written with an alphabet of twenty-two letters (might be Hebrew alphabet), comma, period, and space, there are no two identical books For every person there is a book which describes their life and death. Every idea you could think of is written in books. The translation of every book into every language is also in the library. The Library is a sphere whose exact centre is any one of its hexagons and whose circumference is inaccessible. Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius: This short story about an encyclopaedia article on an unknown country called Uqbar, where state had declared that "mirrors and copulation are abominable”, since they increase the number of men (George Berkeley’s idealism which denying the reality of the world. This is what the whole story is based on). Uqbar is speculated a brave new world as the work of a secret society of astronomers, biologist, engineers, metaphysicians, poets, chemists, algebraists, moralists etc. We cannot say this is as a short story it more or less like a discussion or a debate. Greater extend of this story discuss the language which progress with the details of its language, where there are no nouns in Tlön and towards the end of this story the narrator even mentions the chance of “Specious reasoning” which would have resulted in the creation of this unknown country. The Lottery in Babylon: It took a lot of time for me to understand the Labyrinths of this story; this is about the lottery in the mystic city of Babylon which deals with the lottery of life and existence. The Secret Miracle : The Wheel of time (Kalachakra) is explored in this story through a play writer who is in the final stage of completing his play. There is no end ...everything will be repeated. Funes the Memorious: Tells the memories the narrator about Ireneo Funes, who lives in Uruguay with extraordinary skills for an example he can tell the accurate time without looking into clock but unfortunately he becomes bed ridden as he met with an accident while riding a horse, on bed he discusses lot of ideas on language, memories and mathematics and dies at the age of 19. The Shape of the Sword: An Irish man who narrates the story on how he got a large scar on his face, the story flew back to the period of Irish War of Independence and the day which he spent with his new comrade who was a coward and scared of being hurt; stayed inside their Gen’s house showcasing his old injuries and gradually turns to be traitor by selling himself. Theme of the Traitor and the Hero: Borges takes the narrative of detective story for this one; this is about a guy who is in the quest to find the face of the assassin of his great-grandfathers who was killed some hundred years ago. This narrative progress with the discussion of Shakespearean literature especially of Julius Caesar’s assassination conspiracy. (Above three short stories is not dealing with new concepts but Borges deals these with his bizarre narratives which makes these special.) In Essays And Parables Needless to say Borges becomes more affluent in essays and parables on this beloved themes “Time, Space, Identity.” The recurring elements of this book is all sections were Berkeleian idealism, which denies the reality of the world , Greek philosopher Zeno of Elea's paradoxes this two I was little in- accessible. Besides this Borges discuss lot about Miguel de Cervantes’s Don Quixote; in essay headed “Partial Magic in Quixote” he interrelates the plot structures of Don Quixote, The Ramayana and One Thousand and One Nights that was one of his master stroke. I started this book on a good time; because Borges makes his readers to commence an independent research of their own, with the paradoxes which he puts forward. This book contains only 288 pages but the themes convey different meaning from different dimensions and some were out of my grasp. It’s a book of “Infinite Ideas” .Jorge Luis Borges becomes the end of all “IMAGINATIONS.”NOBODY CAN IMAGINE BEYOND THIS.
355526102	Borges miniature masterpieces reverberate with the vastness of his imagination, each short stories is a snapshot of both his endless erudition and vast imagination, as vast as the eternity which Jaromir is trapped in as he composes his masterpiece before the firing squad, as multifarious as the Judas who occupies the mind of Nile Runeberg and as mysterious as the enigmatic planet Tlon; just as Pierre Menard’s plagiarising of Don Quixote creates a richer version of the original as he suffuses his imagination with Cervantes’s, so Borges is able to suffuse the imagination with the phosphorescent beauty of his mind, iridising with the brightness of his words, all chosen with Flaubertian precision and accuracy; each story is a unique universe condensed in a few thousand words. Borges’s surreal and wonderful descriptions echo throughout his short stories, his prose is a poetic as that of the imaginary inhabitants of the imaginary planet Tlon; “There are objects of many terms; the sun and the water on a swimmer’s chest, the vague tremulous rose colour we see with our eyes closed, the sensation of being carried along by a river and also my sleep.”Indeed Borges’s stories are dream-like. They capture the limitless imaginative capacities of a dream; the freedom of a dreamer’s imagination, the vastness of the human mind is as vast as the universe in which we exist, in which all it takes is a mind to create whole new worlds and a pen and paper to suffuse these worlds with life. One feels like the paralysed Ireneo Funes who in the darkness of his room is able to recreate the world with an astonishing amount of detail, as the velvet darkness which envelopes him vibrates ceaselessly; “He was the solitary and lucid spectator of a multiform, instantaneous and almost intolerably precise world. Babylon, London and New York had overwhelmed with their ferocious splendour the imaginations of men; no one, in their populous towers or their urgent avenues, has felt the heat and pressure of reality as indefatigably as that which day and night converged upon the hapless Ireneo…Funes, lying his back on his cot in the shadows, could imagine every crevice and every moulding in the sharply defined houses around him…to think is to forget differences, to generalize, to make abstractions. In the teeming world of Funes, there were only details, almost immediate in their presence.”Borges’s world can be dizzying, as the reader seeks the navigate the labyrinths if his imagination, some passageways are macabre, such as ‘The Lottery in Babylon’, some mysterious as ‘The Circular Ruins’, yet all are magical, Borges in many ways resembles the character who wishes to bring forth another person via his dreams, Borges wishes to bring forth entire worlds via his fantasies, infinitesimal worlds which are the product of the ecstasy of the creative process;“He perceived the sounds and forms of the universe with a certain colourlessness: his absent son was being nurtured within the diminutions of his soul. His life’s purpose was complete; the man persisted in a kind of ecstasy.”Borges’s list of influences is as infinite as the Library of Babel; Kafka, Chesterton, Flaubert, folk tales, the Arabian Nights, Schopenhauer, medieval texts and the detective novel, all of these things coalesce within the synapses of Borges’s brain and send an electrical jolt down the readers spine, as they explore the world of Borges, the world of Chinese assassins and pathetic criminals, of unknown poets and lachrymose cripples, a world in which the reverberation of sunshine on the bars of a prisoner’s room is suffused with endless meaning-or perhaps, no meaning at all;“By way of a spiral staircase he arrived at the oriel. The early evening moon shone through the diamonds of the window; they were red, yellow and green.”“They arrived at their miserable destination: an alley’s end, with the rose coloured walls which somehow seemed to reflect the extravagant sunset.” “The end of his meditations was sudden, though it was foretold in certain signs. First (after a long drought) a faraway cloud on a hill, light and rapid as a bird, then, towards the south, the sky which had the rose colour of the leopard’s mouth; then the smoke which corroded the metallic nights; finally, the panicky flight of animals…In a birdless dawn, the magician saw the concentric blaze close round the walls…with relief, with humiliation, with terror he understood that he too was a mere appearance, dreamt by another.”
53412645	How can I reasonably be expected to review a book which, over a space of some forty-five years, has become central to my existence? Ever since I was first introduced to Jorge Luis Borges in a New Yorker review around 1969-70, when Labyrinths: Selected Stories and Other Writings and Ficciones were first published in the United States.Since then, I have been following Borges's leads, which have led to to visit Iceland and Argentina (twice each), to read G.K. Chesterton's essays and fictions, to look at American literature with new eyes, to re-evaluate Robert Louis Stevenson and Rudyard Kipling.Labyrinths is the fruit of Borges's apogee in the 1930s and 1940s. By the 1950s, he was more or less a spent force who, like his father, was going blind. Most of the book is taken up with his short fictions, including the best known ones, such as "Tlon Uqbar Orbis Tertius," "Death and the Compass," "Funes the Memorious," and "The Library of Babel." Following are some essays, which are hard to understand for most readers -- especially "A New Refutation of Time," ending with some short (and brilliant) parables and an excellent poem.If I were still a young man starting out in life, I would have done the same thing upon reading this book. Still, at least once a day, some epiphany based on the author's observations, elbows its way into my consciousness, leaving me breathless.
764636316	من وین سنت مونم. اکنون تحقیرم کن.×××به بعضی داستان ها می تونستم پنج ستاره بدم بعضی ها هم چهار که نتیجتا بهش چهار از پنج می دم. در کل تجربه ی خوندن بورخس لذت بخش و لازمه.
873738279	شعرهای کتاب را نخواندم، همین طور مقاله‌ی هوشنگ گلشیری را، که به نظرم رسید نام گلشیری بیش از آن بر مقاله سنگینی می‌کند که بتواند بازتاب‌دهنده‌ی بورخس باشد. داستان‌های ابتدایی کتاب من را گرفت در حالی که داستان‌های انتهایی، حسی شبیه به کتاب الف به من می‌داد و همان طور که در توضیحاتِ هنگام خواندن نوشته‌ام، کتاب الف را دوست نداشته‌ام. مطمئن نیستم که این امر به خاطر کیفیت خود داستان‌ها بوده باشد، شاید شهوت تمام کردن کتاب و اضافه کردن آن به آمار کتاب‌های خوانده‌شده‌ام باعث شده که چندان غرق فضای داستان‌های انتهایی نشوم. البته چند تا از داستان‌های این کتاب، در کتاب الف هم آمده است و بنابراین معلوم می‌شود که تاثیر داستان‌ها در زمان خواندن هر دو کتاب بر من یکسان بوده است. در چند تا از داستان‌های ابتدای کتاب، چرخشی بزرگ در انتهای داستان اتفاق می‌افتد. مثلا در یکی مشخص می‌شود که صاحبان چاقو نبوده‌اند که با یکدیگر جنگیده‌اند، بلکه خود چاقوها بوده‌اند که از همدیگر نفرت داشته‌اند و صاحبانشان را واداشته‌اند تا آن‌ها را به جنگ با یکدیگر بیندازند. یا در یکی دیگر معلوم می‌شود قهرمان داستان، موقعیت خودش را در داستان عوض کرده چون از خیانتی که در حق دوستش کرده، شرمنده است. در داستان‌های انتهایی هم چرخش‌هایی وجود دارد، اما این چرخش‌ها آن قدری که چرخش‌های داستان‌های اولی جذاب است و به کمک داستان می‌آید، قابل درک نیستند. آخر این داستان‌ها می‌شود یک «خوب که چی؟» گذاشت. شاید هم به خاطر این باشد که داستان‌های انتهایی خیلی ذهنی می‌شوند در حالی که داستان‌های ابتدایی عینی‌تر و بیرونی‌تر هستند. مثلاً الان که دارم دوباره به داستان ظاهر نگاه می‌کنم، حتی با خواندن بخشی از خطوط داستان هم اصلاً یادم نمی‌آید که منظور داستان چه بود یا در مورد چه داشت حرف می‌زد. اما مثلاً داستان مزاحم کاملاً قابل تصور و عینی است.
2042806292	One Man's Search for Divine Truth2 February 2018 – Phi Phi Island. This is another of those book that a friend's Goodreads' review caught my interest, and imagine my surprise when I discovered it sitting on my shelf. Normally, once I have read the review, and marked the book as 'to read' I generally forget about them, namely because there are simply too many books on my too read list to be able to remember when I am browsing a bookshop. Okay, I could always whip out my phone and have a look at the list, but then comes the problem of buying a book that I already own. I haven't done that yet, but I do vaguely remember buying this book, namely because the title caught my attention, and whenever I walk into a bookshop I tend to always walk out with a book, or ten. This isn't a novel per se but rather a collection of short stories, essays, and parables. However, these stories all seem to be interconnected in some way, and the major reoccurring theme is that of the labyrinth. Sure, many of us know of the story of Theseus, and when we think of a labyrinth we generally conjure up the image of a physical building with passages twisting and turning everywhere, and when you enter, actually finding anything is nothing short of impossible. However, this is a metaphysical text, and the labyrinth is in a way spiritual. You could say that the labyrinth Borges is exploring is the labyrinth of life, but in my mind this would be way too simplistic. Sure, life is a labyrinth in many cases, and even the smallest choices that we make can head in radically different directions – the butterfly effect if you will. Yet, the labyrinth that I see here is actually a spiritual labyrinth, and it is a labyrinth that many of us enter and spend out entire lives navigating. You could say that there actually is no exit from this labyrinth, unless you consider death to be an exit. The simplistic way of looking at religion is simply believing that you have discovered the truth, and stick to it, but I don't think that this is necessarily the case. Many people find something that satisfies them and basically stick with it – a rather shallow view in my opinion (not that there is anything necessarily wrong with that, since intellectual snobbery really has no place in people's search for the divinity). Borges seems to travel through many phases and places in this book – sometimes he comes to Islam, sometimes to Judaism, a number of times to Christianity, or at least the Catholic sect (which is not surprising considering that he is Argentinean). The introduction suggested that a lot of the things that he writes is heretical, but sometimes heresy is simply challenging the status quo. This was the case with Martin Luther, who discovered that there was no soul, and no life, in the church, so set out on a quest to find a greater meaning in his faith, and a way to break the shackles of his guilt. Can we ever find the truth? Well, that is debatable. There are a lot of uncomfortable realities out there, many that we simply want to hide ourselves from because the truth simply hurts way too much. So, this brings me to Don Quixote, a book that I have yet to read, but hopefully will get around to doing so this year. Just as Slavoj Zizek has a thing for Kung Fu Panda, Borges seems to always come back to Don Quioxte. Actually, I probably shouldn't write all that much about a book that I have yet to read, but there is very much a case of the battle between the imagination and the reality. Apparently Quioxte inhabits an imaginary world, and I suspect that Borges' point is that so do many of us. The imagination is a very powerful thing, and we have this tendency to hide from the world behind this veil of our imagination. This veil isn't a weak veil either, it is an incredibly strong and powerful veil, that if you try to tear it away then you are no doubt going to be met with violence. I guess this is the thing with Labyrinths – people sometimes simply just stay in the same place, content with what they know and understand, and others keep searching, either going further in, or drifting further and further away. Yet, in some of these stories, particularly the detective stories, there is a form of unveiling. Many of these stories are actually told in a stream of consciousness style, where the narrator (and there usually is a narrator), doesn't just tell the story, but shares the emotions with you. However, in many cases, there is a rather shock ending, particularly with the detective stories. In some cases, Borges even pushes the boundaries, such as the story of the Nazi justifying his actions as a Nazi. Interestingly, the conclusion is that though Germany had been defeated, Nazism, in reality, in one form or another, is here to stay. I'll finish off with the concept of the infinite book, something that he also explores throughout this text. The reason I suggest that is because this really isn't a book that you can simply read once, or even quickly. There is so much in this book that you really need to come back to it again, and again. However, this isn't necessarily an infinite book, a book that goes on forever, that is constantly being written. One suggestion is the Tales from the Arabian Nights, where half way through a narrator starts telling a story, and the story that is being told is the Tales of the Arabian Nights, meaning that we go back to the beginning and start all over again, ad-infinitum. Yet there is also the idea of the Koran, the book that is written, and exists, in heaven. Many of us see the Koran as a simple text, but to Islam it is much more that that – it is a spiritual text in that the text does not exist here on Earth, but in heaven, and what we have access to is only the worldly part of it. Yet, the concept of an infinite text is something that could be explored in further details at another time (though I wouldn't include those series that simply seem to go on forever and have no foreseeable end).
16093572	A labyrinth is a structure of indeterminate size made up of walls that twist and turn into the unknown, loop back around to familiar corridors and terminate in impassible cul-de-sacs. Unlike a maze – a game with an achievable goal – labyrinths are built with the intent of getting and keeping its occupants irrevocably lost.It’s kind of how I felt reading Jorge Luis Borges’ Labyrinths. That isn’t a bad thing, mind you. Borges’ storytelling is complex and dense, and some of the stories required a second skimming before I really felt like I understood them. But this “lost” feeling - of distractions by too many choices, of confusion then revelation - is inevitable in a collection of stories whose most frequently occurring theme is the idea of infinite time and space implying infinite variation.One thing that struck me as interesting is that many of Borges’ labyrinths (and as a previous poster has noted, no, he doesn’t exactly let you forget the title) are themselves books. There’s the encyclopedia of a fictional planet in Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertis, an ancient Chinese novel in The Garden of Forking Paths, a verbatim rewrite of Cervantes in Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote, a play in The Secret Miracle, a theological essay in Three Versions of Judas, a sort of historical reenactment of Julius Caesar in Theme of the Traitor and the Hero, the back-and-forth of competing philosophers in The Theologians, and more.The best example of both book-as-predestination and infinite variation themes, however, is The Library of Babel, about a library the size of the universe (or a universe whose only contents are a library). The library is a presumably infinite number of floors made of interlocking hexangular galleries, each occupied by one or more librarians and walls lined by every book conceivable – as well as some that are not. The narrative is told from the point of view of one such librarian and describes how books of every combination of letters and words possible means the biography of every individual that has ever existed or ever shall exist is shelved somewhere, how almost religious crusades have been mounted to find the one volume that describes the origination and purpose of the library itself, and how even if one comes across a book filled with seemingly garbled text, eventually another book can be found which describes that jumble of miscellany as a language, prompting the narrator to ask, “You who read me, are You sure of understanding my language?”
1632584777	Yes very impressive in places and in others unfortunately I just don’t got the grey muscle mass to understand some of his lyrical perfectionisms. This is a collection of short stories by Borges. He implies in places that life is too short so why write a 300,000 word tome when you can express the sentiment you wish to express in a few hundred words? There is one short story called the immortal which was worth reading the entire book for. That essay does what it says on the tin. What Borges does in that essay and probably throughout, similar to Nietzsche in a way, is to take you to these arid, dry, road less travelled like parts of your mind with thoughts that you may not have thought of before. He introduces you to ideas that just would not have crossed your mind in a million years and in that the book is, in key places, delectable. Here are some of his tastiest points:• The idea of creating a book which takes a lifetime to get done but then is passed on to the next generation who refines it further still. I’m 300,000 words into a book of my own and am very tempted to pass it over to my 2 boys to refine after reading that. Lines that you read in books like people you randomly meet In life can be game changing in that perspective I think. • History is written by the winners – yes. History is written by men – yes. History is essentially a history of war – yes. But history is also a reflection of what we judge to have happened as individuals. You cannot divorce history from that lens. • Every man should be capable of all ideas. (Unlike me :)• Thinking is the art of forgetting differences, generalizing, creating abstract thoughts. • Only animals can claim to have a concept of immortality because they alone are aloof of the concept of death. Sometimes people of the book profess immortality in another world or heaven to come but the reality with which we live our days on earth runs contrary to that assertion. We all know that one day we will die and yet we live as though we wont.
1225098180	Unlimited Stars/5. This is IT, this is The Writer next to which any other pales in comparison. This is The One I have been searching for my entire life, this is the One I thought too extraordinary to exist. The BBC, in declaring Borges the most important writer of the 20th century, declares "reading the work of Jorge Luis Borges for the first time is like discovering a new letter in the alphabet, or a new note in the musical scale." That is a vast understatement. Reading Borges is like discovering an entirely new dimension of experience, it is like having all of your neurons plucked out and rearranged in unfamiliar configurations, it is like attuning to a new form of perception, it is like being suspended between a dream and consciousness, it is like having your mind exploded to the extent you begin questioning the most basic aspects of existence that you never once thought to question. Reading Borges is a magical, surreal, psychedelic, intellectually-erotic, twisted, world-shattering, intense literary-orgasmic experience. Labyrinths defies any kind of description or review. It is, I think we can say definitively, a book (*though I'm not sure Borges wouldn't question this claim; the people of Tlon would certainly disagree). It consists of essays/ poems/ stories/ philosophies/intellectual masturbations/ language-that's-written-down/whatever-you-want-to-call-them. It doesn't really matter what you call it, you just have to READ IT.
2562214193	خدا رحمت کند احمد میرعلائی عزیز را که بورخس را به خوانندگان فارسی زبان هدیه کرد.اولین نکته‌ای که با خواندن کتاب مخاطب درک می‌کند، تسلط مثال زدنی بورخس بر ادبیات کلاسیک است. از ادبیات کلاسیک لاتین و اروپا گرفته تا منطق‌الطیر عطار و اشعار خیام. نکته‌ی جالب توجه دیگر درباره‌ی هزارتوهای بورخس، داستان‌های در ظاهر آسان ولی پیچیده‌ی آن است، به طوری‌که در اتنهای هر داستانی یک شگفتی انتظار خواننده را می‌کشد و باعث می‌شود تا خواننده نیاز پیدا کند تا چندباره داستان‌ها را مطالعه کند. کتاب مملو از جملات تامل‌برانگیز نیز هست به عنوان مثال"مرگ زندگی‌ای است که زیسته شده، زندگی مرگی است که فرا می‌رسد""هر انسانی همه‌ی انسان‌هاست‌"جذاب‌ترین قسمت‌های کتاب برای من داستان‌های «زخم شمشیر»، «ابن حقان بخاری و مرگ او در هزارتوی خود»، و «ظاهر» به‌همراه مقالات «راز وجود ادوارد فیتز جرالد» و «دیوار چین و کتاب‌ها» بودند. لذت کتاب خواندن با نقدی که هوشنگ گلشیری عزیز در انتهای کتاب درباره‌ی نوشتن بورخس نوشته است تکمیل می‌شود و من هم با جملاتی از .گلشیری بزرگ بحث را خاتمه می‌دهم. "خلق جریانی است متقابل، یعنی همراه با مخلوق، خالق نیز شکل عوض می‌کند، همچون مجسمه‌سازی که همراه با هر ضربه‌ی تیشه و تلاش برای به صورت رساندن سنگ انگار ضربه‌ای نیز بر خود، بر سنگ خویش، فرود آورده است. و چون از سرکار خسته و کوفته برمی‌خیزد، خود نیز دیگری است."
1083604284	يأسرني بورخيس دائماً ، فهو يفكك النصوص ويعيد سردها وقصَها بطريقته المتميزة والغريبة ، رغمَ سوء الترجمة التي أواجهها هنا أيضاً . إلى جانب تكرار قصص من مجموعة قصصية قرأتها له في وقتٍ سابق ..ومعَ أن هذه الترجمة من دار مختلفة إلا أنها تقارب الترجمة السابقة في السوء وإن اقتصرت هذه المرة في الأغلب على أخطاء في ترجمة الأسماء (سواءً كانت لأشخاص أو أمكنة ) .المفارقة أن مقدمة المترجم ذكرت مقولة لأرنستو ساباتو الكاتب الأرجنتيني الشهير انتقد فيها القراء في الأرجنتين قائلاَ : ( بأن بورخيس لو كانَ كاتباً فرنسياً أو تشيكياً لتدافع الأرجنتينيون على قراءته بحماس ، وفي ترجمات ردئية ) وأضافَ المترجم في خضم تبريره لعدم شهرة بورخيس خاصة في المغرب العربي (أنه ليس ضمن لائحة الكُتاب باللغة الفرنسية وأن كُتاب الإسبانية لا ينالون القيمة التي يستحقونها ) ناسياً أن الترجمات الردئية هي سبب عزوف الكثيرين عن قراءة بورخيس بالعربية ، وأيضاً السبب في بقائه مجهولاً لدى أغلب القراء بالعربية .
1075712016	ليس أول عمل اقرأ لبورخيسولكن لا اعرف لم كلما عدت لعالمهاسأت الظن به!!فهل هي متاهات بورخيس في الزمن والتاريخام الغموض والايحاء في سردهام لانه يرتكز على التاريخ وخاصة العربيويعيد سرده بطريقته وباسلوبهام كما قال بما معناه الادب تجديد للقديم وتطويرام ان عمله في المكتبات وغرقه بين الكتب والمخطوطات هو من جعل اهتمامه وسرده يرتكز هناهل سيأتي يوم واغرق فيه بمخطوطات عربية واعجمية وعلى اي مخطوطات واداب سأقفربما الاداب والاساطير النرويجية :)اغبط بورخيس لانه قرأ كل هذه الكتب التاريخيةبينما لي على هذه الارض اكثر من 28 عاماً ولم اقرأ شيء يذكرمن تاريخ واداب الاجداد :(
3132867702	No one quite matches the unique genius of Jorge Luis Borges. His imprint on subsequent thinking and writing is deep and far-reaching. This is a collection of quintessential Borgesian brilliance. "Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius" is speculative fiction about a clandestine group of people imagining an ordered planet called Tlön with a very different genealogy, knowledge systems, languages, disciplinary pursuits, history etc., and how it turns out that apparently that imagined planet is interfering in the reality of the planetary life of those who imagined it and wrote an extensive encyclopedia on it. In the process Borges characteristically touches upon multiple philosophical, epistemological, metaphysical, linguistic and additional themes.'The Garden of Forking Paths' is outstanding to me because of its exploration of the notion of times, the co-existence of multiple time periods, as well as the possible eternal existence of all past, present and future times, as also the unlimited nature of possibilities if certain decisions preferred over others as well as their impact on future events - there are so many forking paths possible as enshrined in the labyrinth which is essentially a vast, seemingly chaotic novel with no end.'The Lottery in Babylon' seemingly tells the story of the emergence of a game of lottery in Babylon that develops into a more sophisticated game with higher and more complex stakes with an increasingly invisible corporation eventually at the helm of running it - ultimately so invisible that many doubt its existence while others believe in it. But it is also clearly an allegory for life itself with its unending randomness and uncertainty ascribable to a divine being which is believed in by some and denied by others - like a lottery game of sophistication and complexity being run by an invisible power. 'Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote' is an interesting exploration of the nature of authorship through discussion of a fictional author Menard's endeavor to so deeply immerse himself in the work Quixote that he can actually recreate it - the Borgesian idea that all texts are reproduced in a vast library only because complete randomness eventually reproduces all possible combinations of letters, also reminiscent here."The Circular Ruins" is an exploration of the notion of reality and dreaming through a creation myth involving a magician dreaming and creating his son in his own image - hence to his knowledge a mere image - but realizing in his terminal moments that he too is also not real but an image, a creation of someone else's dream. 'The Library of Babel' is a mind-blowing exploration of the idea of the cosmos as a labyrinthine, cosmic-sized 'infinite' library with every conceivable books written/that will be written using 25 characters and containing gibberish as well as books of great wisdom, with multiple groups and cults on different exploratory expeditions and subscribing to various theories about its origins and what is contains (and many despairing by the glut of information and turning suicidal). This tour de force, quite apart from its grand feat of imagination and imagery asks probing questions about the meaning of human existence, human endeavors to find the meaning of the cosmos and the potential futility of both, eternity, infinity and reality.'Funes the Memorious' is about an invalid nineteen year old boy in a backward Argentinian community who develops infallible memory and perception after his fall from a horse.'The Shape of the Sword' provides an interesting perspective as a coward narrates his own tale of cowardice - him with a moon-shaped scar by a cutlass who was called John Vincent Moon.'The Theme of the Traitor and the Hero' - A 'secret form of time, a pattern of repeated lines' is what the narrator discovers as he compares his great-grandfather's assassination with events in Shakespeare's Julius Caeser and finds various parallelisms. Macbeth also comes into play. That history is copying history is astonishing but what is even more astonishing is his discovery of history copying literature. Entire communities participate in the enacted drama of real events, based on literary drama, and everything appears to be foreseen - including the discovery of all this.'Death & the Compass' a detective follows a series of mysterious murders seemingly following a cabalistic pattern and comes to believe in the existence of a criminal mastermind. Is it over-intellectualization that leads him to his fate? Labyrinths appear in all their varieties and complexities as possibilities 'The Secret Miracle' - Dying a hundred deaths while awaiting death at the hands of a Nazi firing squad the protagonist finds a way to 'hold fast to the fleeting substance of time.' He dreams of visiting a library where one of the books contains God within a single letter on one of the pages, which the old, bitter librarian has been unable to find despite looking for most of his life - but he does on a map of India in an atlas. As a result the physical universe comes to a halt for him (though he remains conscious) and his final moments elongate into months, allowing him to finish a drama from memory that he was writing - yet no one else notices it. 'Three Versions of Judas' is written like a scholarly article and combines real and fictitious sources. It discusses three versions of the story of Judas Iscariot and arrives at very different and far more salutary interpretations and outcomes than the established version.In 'The Sect of the Pheonix,' enigma still surrounds the riddle in the story of a secret sect from ancient times whose members remember everyone else and are distinguishable only by their performing a secret ritual. Some regard it as sexual intercourse, while others point to homosexual intercourse. But then it is said in the story that there has never been any persecution associated with the ritual, that it is simple, and involves some basic materials - the materials are cork, wax or gum arabic. No temples are specially dedicated to the celebration of this cult, but a ruin, a basement or hall are considered propitious sites.'The Immortal' is a story about someone who accidentally discovers immortality and then becomes weary of it and wants escape. Starting in Thebes during the reign of Roman emperor Diocletian the narrator finds his way after arduous journeying to the antique City of Immortals which was fantastical and labyrinthine in nature, seemingly built by mad gods who were now thought dead. Borges uses the story to contemplate the concept if immortality. Multiple narrators, manuscripts and unreliable testimonies characterize the story in typical Borgian fashion. 'The Theologians' is ostensibly about the work of two theologians, their critique of each other's works, and their discussion of various heresies, but is not only an exploration of the ideas of morality and heresy but importantly the struggles of finding the truth and the risks it creates for one's own physical existence. While exalting one symbol or set of symbols faith systems denigrate others, describing them as heretic. And this has complex ramifications.'Story of the Warrior and the Captive' is a story about two characters in different ages who chose to leave their cultures and adopt ver different ones - the secret impulse that persuaded them both is what fascinates Borges.'Emma Zunz' is an exploration of falsity, truth and revenge as Emma Zunz avenges her father's death.'The House of Asterion' has been described as a 'literary puzzle' and a dramatic inversion of the hero-monster relationship. The identity of the narrator remains undisclosed till the end when it emerges that it is the Minotaur who tells the tale. He too seeks redemption from the labyrinth. 'Deutsches Requiem' contains the unrepentant reflections of a lamed Nazi concentration camp commandant on his life and acts and provides a brilliant insight into the psyche of fascism (sacrificial violence, rejection of empathy, dehumanization of the enemy, and victim blaming)'Averroes's Search' is a wonderful story imagining the Islamic philosopher's Averroes's translation of Aristotle's Poetics while not knowing the meaning of a play, as live theatrical performances were not part of his milieu. That makes his endeavor somewhat absurd but then Borges realizes that with his cultural differences and limited references his endeavor to understand Averroes was equally absurd. The past, as it turns out, is ultimately not fully knowable.'The Zahir' is one of Borges's most famous stories and revolves around obsession - how a person or a thing - the Zahir - has the ability to create an obsession in everyone who sees it. In this case it is a coin but Borges goes on to dwell on the nature of obsession as well as that of reality and dreams. Most likely inspired by it, Paulo Coelho has written a book called the Zahir which is also about obsession.'The Waiting' is a mystery as a man contemplates whether the death he faces is real or a dream - having encountered this dilemma in the past as well.'God's Script' tells the story of an Aztec priest being tortured by a conquistador priest. Imprisoned, with a jaguar in an adjacent cell, the priest looks for inspiration in his dreams to decipher a divine script (14 random words) in the patterns of the jaguar's fur, the utterance of which would set him free and make him ascendant. But having seen the words means having experienced the universe and thereafter his individual existence, his context, his predicament, his segment of history or his race, all become trivial. They no longer matter. He would thus rather just wait out his days in captivity. Apart from these fabulous 23 stories this anthology also contains 10 essays on literary themes and literary works and figures (Pascal, Quixote, Kafka, Bernard Shaw) and 8 parables which are a testimony to his critical prowess and width of reading and analysis.Borges is fascinating due to the briefness of the literary forms he uses - little essays or short narratives - but the vastness of his intellectual pursuits, the richness of his imagination, and his ability to connect and think across multiple disciplines, cultures and civilizational experiences. Reality, imagination, life, death, enigmas, creation, universe, nothingness - his preoccupations are cosmic. The unknowability of most things; the possibilities of truth, reality and what is perceived and experienced being open to multiple interpretations; the enigmas of existence; the nature of memory; the role of fate and chance; the phenomenon of recurrence and that of repetition; the nature of knowledge; the existence of a divine being and its role in human life; the randomness of existence; the role of choice in life, and so much are his recurrent themes. Both stylistically and in terms of preferred usage of symbols and metaphors, enigmas, labyrinths, literary puzzles, cults, esoteric symbols and practices, books and libraries etc., make frequent appearances in his works. As do literary, cultural and historical allusions and references of great diversity. I have written these short descriptions primarily as tools to jog my own unreliable memory - as faint milestones to make my way back into Borges's wondrous labyrinths. For they deserve many a trip. And each one is rewarding.
1246488554	مشکلی که داشتم، تکراری شدنِ شیوۀ روایت، تیپ شخصیت‌ها، زاویۀ دید و حتّی پیرنگِ داستان بود. در نیمۀ دوم کتاب این مشکل تا حدِ خوبی برطرف شد. دیدِ بورخس به زندگی، اطّلاعاتِ حیرت‌آورش از فرهنگ‌ها، خلّاقیتِ حیرت‌آورش و داستان‌پردازیِ بی‌مثالش واقعاً ستودنیه.شعرهاش رو البته هیچ نپسندیدم و حتّی از جایی به بعد نخوندم. : دترجمه هم خوب بود. شاید با ترجمه‌ای که از نجفی اورده بود راحت‌تر بودم ولی به نظرم میرعلایی خوب از پس کار براومده بود. ضمیمه‌های آخر کار هم جز مصاحبه واقعاً نامفید بودند. :داز کتاب افست نیز بیزارم.
2485818253	باید دوباره و چند باره این کتاب را بخوانم. نمی شود راحت نوشت از این کتاب. مخصوصا که پی دی اف ش را خواندم وباید خود کتاب را بخرم و زیرش خط بکشم و هی لایت. اما دو مصاحبه ی آخر خود بورخس را خیلی دوست داشتم. شوخ و شنگی اش را..اینهمه خواندن اش. کوری اش.. شاید رویای کور پدر پیرش باشد. این را هوشنگ گلشیری نوشته است.و این هممه که از عطار و خیام و مولانا و اصفهان وشیراز می گوید. این همه که خاورمیانه ای ست انگار.این همه که با فرهنگ ما آشناست. اینها را خیلی دوست داشتم.
2729053929	جادویی و پر از رمز و راز...اگه اهل کنجکاوی و ماجراجویی هستید و از عنصر جادو خوشتون میاد پس بی تردید خودتونو بسپارید به هزارتوهای عجیب بورخس و اجازه بدین که شما رو تحت تاثیر جادو و جذابیت نوشته هاش قرار بده! یه مسکن قوی واسه فراموشی ملال های روزمره. اولین تجربه من از بورخس بود و خیلی منو یاد نوشته های مارکز انداخت! (نمیدونم قیاسِ درستی هست یا نه!)به طوری که اگه بدونِ دونستن اسم نویسنده شروع میکردم به خوندن کتاب ؛حتما میگفتم مارکز اینو نوشته!در کل متفاوت و جالب بود؛دوسش داشتم.
2552737067	لذت بردن از داستان های غریب بورخس و همچنین قسمت اعظم ادبیات امریکای لاتین موهبت بزرگیه که به خیلی ها بخشیده شده.بورخسی که حتی داستان رئالیستی می نویسه بطرز دیوانه باری به واقعیت بی اعتنایی میکنه.
8107692668	Labyrinths is not simply a collection of stories — it is an intellectual experience, a journey through mirrors, symbols, and infinite corridors of thought. Borges writes as if reality itself were a puzzle, inviting the reader not to follow the narrative, but to participate in its construction.Each piece feels like a philosophical riddle: time bends, identity dissolves, and language becomes both the key and the trap. This is a book that lingers in the mind long after the final page, reshaping the way one thinks about fiction, truth, and imagination.It is demanding at times, but profoundly rewarding for any reader who loves metaphysical literature and ideas that echo beyond their lines.
15954001	One of the few things I've read in the last year (maybe 2?) that has made me feel better about the US social and political climate. For me, these stories serve as techniques to comprehend (transcend, even) the velocity and size of America's culture wars. I can't tell you exactly how or why (yet) but I recommend this book to anyone experiencing some stage of grief over the loss of a collective (national, public, economic, political, etc) coherence.
32200650	BOAR-hez? The name met with blank looks, I was shocked to discover, when I mentioned it on this year's first day of fiction workshop. Look, the man realigned the spine of Creative Writing. He did it with a feather touch, too, a mere dozen or so swiftly unfolding ironies, calibrated for maximum contortion of whatever you expect. The range of reference, to be sure, is encyclopedic -- literally: the Britannica features in a few of his essentials, like "Tlon, Uqbar, and Orbis Tertius" -- yet the core enigma in every piece demands nothing more than a daring imagination, and takes a reader to root questions of what's real ("The Secret Miracle"), or what's God ("The Circular Ruins"), or just what we ourselves consist of (every damn piece here, but "Funes the Memorious" to name an exemplar) . This volume also culls a few of the brief essays, termites that keep on gutting our notion of experience long after we're done reading (first suggestion, "The Wall and the Books"), plus a number of the even-briefer "Parables," including the essential "Borges and I." In that piece, the opening keeps looping from back of brain to front: "The other one, the one called Borges, is the one things happen to...;" and the ending could be anyone's deathbed confession: "I do not know which of us has written this page." But it's the stories that shatter a sensibility into the most pieces, and LABYRINTHS tops off its other excellences by offering the best translations, free of tin-eared misconstruing, or backing-away from complexity. Borges may be our most electrifying Visiting Writer, his speculations coming from the far planets but inviting the library of mankind into our most insipid conversations, and as such he's more crucial than ever, now as our chatter bounces off the satellites. He goes face to face with the Unknowable and carves out elegant shapes.
2075544993	Borges is an absolute genius. ‘The Library of Babel’ is honestly one of the best and most beautiful things I have read in my life. I also adored ‘Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius’ and reading about Borges and Bioy running around researching a hidden empire which no one else has managed to discover was just amazing and I’m obsessed. ‘Borges and I’ … honestly I’ve got no words. How did me manage to write something that incredible in two pages is beyond me.I loved his commentaries on Kafka and Cervantes and it’s really made me want to read Don Quixote very soon. I wish I would have read this when I was really into Auster because the idea of the labyrinth and meta fiction compliments his writing so well. The essay on the Argentine writer and culture was so interesting and it made me think of something Mariana Enriquez said about Borges when I saw her speak. She talked about the fact he doesn’t use any culture from Latin American and is too preoccupied with Eastern and European culture. His essay argues that no matter what the subject matter his work will always be distinctly Argentine because it’s an Argentine who has written it. Loved this collection so much and everything in it has just absolutely blew my mind.
150598057	I've reviewed each segment of Borges' collected fictions separately:A Universal History of Iniquityhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Garden of Forking Pathshttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Artificeshttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Aleph and Other Storieshttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...In Praise of Darknesshttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Makerhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Brodie's Reporthttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Book of Sandhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Shakespeare's Memoryhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
4283279088	Borges foi um grande escritor, mas apenas escreveu contos. Tal prova que nem todos os escritores necessitam de publicar romances. A escrita de Borges leva-nos ao encontro dos nossos heróis literários, aos escritores dos quais aprendemos a amar e também com os seus contos sentimos-nos sendo uma das personagens. As suas parábolas são de uma beleza imensa, nelas observamos a sua admiração pelos clássicos nomeadamente Dom Quixote. Tenho destacar "A biblioteca de Babel" e "O imortal" como os contos mais brilhantes. "O imortal" ainda achei mais impactante devido ao seu final: " Eu tenho sido Homero; em breve, Eu serei Ninguém, como Ulisses, Eu serei todos os homens; Eu estarei morto."
1696692571	"Let heaven exist, though my place be in hell."جمله بالا را قبلا توی مجموعه داستان الف، داستان مرثیه آلمانی، از زبان یک افسر نازی خوانده بودم و وقتی همین جمله را از زبان راوی داستان کتابخانه بابل در مجموعه داستان هزارتوها تشخیص دادم کلی حس تحلیل ادبی و مو از ماست کشیدن بهم دست داد. ولی واقعیت این است که خیلی خیلی زیاد میشود روی داستان های بورخس وقت گذاشت و چیزهای جدید کشف کرد.
2253055140	لا يبدو كتاب المتاهات مستقلاً وجديداً لأن اغلب القصص فيه قد سبق ذكرها في سداسيات بابل وكتاب الرملهناك قصص اخرى لم استسغها لأنها مبهمة ومربكة كثيراً ربما بسبب مزجها بين الهيكل التاريخي والادبي وبين التعريب والترجمة غير السلسة والمستساغة
2090634033	بورخس... بورخس اعجاب برانگیز...با ترجمه مرحوم میرعلایی،عالی است.
572230610	تسلّط بورخس رو ادبيات "تمام" جهان، الاهيات، اساطير و نهايتاً روايت و قصّه واقعاً حسرت برانگيزهترجمه ميرعلائى يكى از ده ترجمهِ خوبى بود قطعاً كه خوندم؛ بهتر از عبدالله كوثرى بنظرم تو اين فيلد
7819499398	حرف دارم توی سرم، خیلی حرف دارم برای این داستان، در هر جمله‌اش نفس اسطوره دمیده. خوشحالم که در زمان درستی به کشفش رسیدم.«ویرانه‌های مدور» با بن‌مایه‌های آفرینش آغاز می‌شه؛ جایی که خالق، تنها با نیروی اندیشه‌اش موجودی را در رویا خلق می‌کنه... حلقه‌ای بی‌پایان از خالق و مخلوق، همانند افسانه‌ها و اسطوره‌هابه زودی از این داستان مقاله‌ای با بعد اساطیری‌ خواهم نوشت...
5812805291	شبیه معجزه بود. انگار تو تاریکی نشستی و یه جادوگر برات قصه های اساطیری میگه.
4225625017	اگر ممکن باشد از لابیرنت‌ها و آینه‌ها و ببرها خسته شد، پس دل‌زدگی از دشنه‌ها و شعبده‌بازان نیز حتمی‌ست. نمی‌دانم در آخر چه چیز برای ما باقی خواهد ماند
6984448994	One never finishes read Borges or this collection one simply just starts it over for all of eternity. One continuous loop.
21762159	من زنده گی نکرده ام می خواهم دیگری باشم...بورخس راوی سرگذشت است.سرگذشت به مفهوم انتزاعی آن یعنی داستانی که جایی آغاز شده و در دنباله روزگاری را به خود میبیند و دست آخر به پایان می رسد.در دنیای بورخوس این آدم ها نیستند که اهمیت والای خود را دارند(نمی خواهم بگویم بورخس اومانیسم است ،متعهد است یا نیست یا هر چیز دیگر...) بل که سرگذشتی است که بر سر کاینات آمده و می آید.انسان هم جزیی از همین کاینات است پس سرگذشت او با سرگذشتی که بر یک ببر می آید نمی تواند متفاوت باشد که هیچ بعید نیست این انسانی که دارد این ها را می نویسد در حیات پیشینش ببری بوده یا خنجری بوده. بنابراین دغدغه بورخس بیان سرگذشتی است که بر سر این انسان ها آمده است.شاید بتوان گفت او پارا از این هم فراتر گذاشته انسان را بازیچه ای انگشته که چرخش دوران او را از اعماق آبهایی ایرانی تا جنگل های هندوستان و سپس ضرابخانه ای در آرژانتین می کشاند.بی خود نیست جنگ صاحبان یک خنجر در روزگاری دیگر دو آدم دیگر را روبه روی هم قرار می دهند تا جادوی سرگذشت تکمیل شود.یا این که سربازی ترسو که در خواری و بدنامی مرده است نامی پر از شجاعت در مرگ دیگرش در چهل سال قبل از خود به جای می گذارد. در داستان های بورخس زمان به هم نریخته است بل که توالی داستان ها به روال روزگار :غیرمنتظره و غیرقابل پیش بینی حرکت می کنند.این شیوه حتا در نمونه های ریالیسم او دیده می شود.هم زیستی مسالمت آمیز دو برادر به قیمت مرگ زن که اگرچه واقعی است ولی بیانی جادویی از واقعیت است.او بازیرکی شگفتی همه ردپاها را از بین می برد او یا داستان ها را از کسی شنیده که حالا مرده یا نامش را به یاد نمی آورد یا از نامه ای برداشته که دیگر گم شده و آیا همه این ها سرگذشت ناپیدای ما نیست که در هزارتوهای ناپیدا و نامفهوم پاسخ به چیستی و چونی سرگردانیم؟نه این که به گفته گلشیری همه به امید یافتن اسم اعظم هستیم؟اسمی که از هیجانات کودکی هزار و یک شب تا زیرزمین کارلوس آرگنتینو همه را به دنبال خود کشانده است.دنیای بورخس به نحو جالبی به قصر کافکا شبیه است و اگر بخواهیم به شیوه بورخسی سخن بگوییم شاید خیام در حیات دیگرش به یکی از این دو شاید هم به شیوه بورخسانه(!) ای به هر دو تبدیل گشته است.خلق این صحنه های هول تمام زنده گی ما را فرا میگیرد همانطور که بورخس را فرا گرفته است.نه این که بتوان گفت کوری او تبدیلی از کوری پدرش است که در او حیاتی دیگر یافته است یا در من که چشمانم خطوط موازی صفحه را تار تر می بیند و نمی بیند.
1814128843	The key to understanding this collection and all of Borges' work is to understand the difference between a labyrinth and a maze. A maze can have many entrances, exits and dead ends. You can enter and leave from different points and take different paths around the maze. A labyrinth however has only one way in, one path to follow, no dead ends, and you go back out the way you came in. Mazes are designed to trick you. Whereas, labyrinths are designed for personal, psychological and spiritual transformation. You never lose the path of a labyrinth even though the centre may be obscured from you until you reach it. The journey to the centre may involve many twists and turns but you will always be travelling in the right direction. Borges' writing is exactly like this; personal, psychological, and spiritual. Read this book but keep your mind open to its labyrinthine nature and the transformation intended by the author. It is not supposed to be obscure, you don't need a reference book as some suggest. You just need to stay open to his writing.
636403269	Call them science fiction, fantasy or magical realism if you like but make sure you also call these stories wonderful! I'm already a fan of shorts stories but I'm not exactly a fan of reviewing them, mainly because there are stinkers among the gems but I found none in this collection.Considering each ones length I found each of them quite complex. The Library of Babel contains more than books it also seems to be housed in a labyrinth of hexagonal rooms with many corners. Who knows what's around the next one? There are many mazes in this set of stories and not all of them physical. Borges simplicity of words enhance the beautiful writing they create when strung together by his capable pen. He was a really nice and welcome change from some of the more name intense and flowery prose I've currently been reading.Yes, I'm a fan.
7248018	مجموعه اي بي نظير از شعرها و داستان کوتاههاي بورخس است همراه با يک مصاحبه که در انتهاي کتاب آمده. کتاب ترجمه ي مرحوم احمد مير علايي است . نثري روان و جذاب دارد
432722811	On second read after about 20 years I have to say I was a little less impressed with this.
5807728759	اگر که به ادبیات،تاریخ،فلسفه و حتی اسطوره شناسی علاقمند باشی بدون شک بورخس تو را به جهانی می‌برد که مرز واقعیت و خیال در آن ناپیداست.داستان‌هایش در عین سادگی مملو از تکنیک‌های ادبی‌ست که در تار و پود آثارش تنیده شده،گاه اسطوره‌ها را از دل تاریخ بیرون می‌کشد،گاه مرزهای زمان و مکان را از بین می‌برد و ما را با خود به دوران‌ها و مکان‌های مختلف می‌برد و در تجربه زندگی‌های متعدد مخلوقاتش به زیبایی هرچه تمام‌تر شریک می‌سازد.در خصوص اشعار بورخس در این کتاب باید اذعان کنم که از لحاظ مضامین اخلاقی،انسانی و تا حدودی حماسی در سطح خوبی قرار دارند و در خصوص قالب ادبی اشعارش متأسفانه از متن ترجمه نمی‌توان به اندازه کافی بهره‌مند شد.
138198928	This collection of short stories and essays by cult Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges is amazing. He's like a hard intellectual blend of Gabriel García Márquez, H.G. Wells, and H.P. Lovecraft. It's impossible to put his stories in a single category -- there are elements of fantasy and magical realism, some of them have the surface form of a murder mystery, others of a pulp adventure story, and in the middle of any of them you might find yourself exploring theories of the mind, refutations of time, or the meaning of infinity. This is one of those books that, read at a young age, will probably warp your literary horizon, in a good way. Even at my relatively advanced age, it popped a few fuses, and I'm sure this won't be the last thing I read by Borges. If you are a traditional sci-fi/fantasy fan but want something really different that will challenge you, I can't recommend this volume highly enough. Don't be fooled by the relatively short length (260 pages), as even some of Borges's two-pagers will take a while to work through (unless your brain works very differently from mine).
142307433	It's just one of those books. I call them perfect. I also call them morbid, and they frighten me as do obsessive thoughts. Borges is so relatable it's scary. Inhabiting his place resembles a nightmare more than it does a dream, and yet I know the exact road that leads to his sanctuary. Sometimes I even find myself leisurely strolling in the forbidden direction. I begin to develop a pattern phobia, for nothing is more desirable than grasping the top pattern, the pattern of patterns, and nothing is stronger than the net it forms. I want his erudition, but I do not want his logic. I want his books, but I do not want his loneliness. I, fortunately, am not Borges.
1691615638	An interesting and challenging collection. Moves well beyond the magical realism into the philosophical weird. Glad I read it3.5*
36077470	My first encounter with Borges was amazing. I looked into this great author from the eyes of Luis Fernando Verissimo. He idolised Borges, immortalised him in Borges and the Eternal Orangutan. Now that I met him on my own, I was in a nervous state and thinking of what should I do?! It's like a good friend of mine who was dumbfounded, not even able to say a single word when her idol -Bre Redana- stood next to her and talked to her.And so I stood at the main entrance to Borges's Labyrinths. Think about Harry Potter's fourth year in Hogwart and competed in the last task of the Triwizard Tournament, when he stood before the spinx answering the riddle. I experienced similar task. Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius was the riddle I have to answer it or I would never be able to enter the labyrinth. It confused me first as I prepared myself for the regular Latin authors I've read, the way I react towards Marquez or Allende. But that was not the way it is. So I prepared myself for something broader than that border I made up, and voila I was inside the labyrinth.I turned left. I don't know when exactly I read that if you're in a labyrinth just go left. Surprisingly, Borges enquires that common procedure as well. I arrived in the espionage era when he paid a visit to the garden of Ts'ui Pên, a labyrinth of labyrinths, and witnessed one of the best espionage trick we might know ever. Everytime I turned left, I found different worlds in each labyrinths. The class clash in Babylon, the confusion occured when I was in Don Quixote's labyrinth -this probably more because I haven't read it, or how Borges reminds me to be careful of what I wish for in the Secret Miracle because sometimes the death is better than passing the days all alone as the physical universe came to halt for everybody but you.Again I turned left, and I found further amazement of Borges's labyrinths. I met a hero of a nation who was sentenced to death because he's a traitor. The death sentence carried in a way those Hollywood high-budget conspiracy movies would have done so well. I entered the Library of Babel, where all men would wander in searching for the Man of the Book. Then I met Judas, according to Borges, Judas betrayal was not accidental. It was a preordained fact which has it's mysterious place in the economy of redemption.I had a one-life-time experience wandering throughout Borges's labyrinth. His fictions are amazing, however I've found it's hard to attach myself to his essays. He talked about those authors and their works that alienated me from the discussion. His concept of infinite bothers me, the theory of why Achilles would never overtake the Tortoise although we're all aware that Achilles -do not even think about Brad Pitt in the Troy movie- probably one of the fastest man on our humankind history. Last but not least, I wonder what affliction Borges has with mirrors.***Versi Indonesia menyusul yah hehe
211394499	I've read Borges' stories, essays and reviews, and poetry in the past 20-some years. I said to a friend "I'm obsessed with Borges."Most of the stories here are fantastical, though a few are "mimetic." Writing philosophical fiction well is difficult; it seems that such a writer comes once in a generation. Others who have done philosophic fiction well are Philip K. Dick and Ted Chiang.One theme of some of the stories is hidden patterns in human events. This notion can be found in philosophers of history such as Hegel, Marx, and Toynbee. In the Borges story "Theme of the Traitor and the Hero" the narrator discovers curious similarities between the life of an Irish revolutionary and the historical and even literary figure of Julius Caesar. In "Death and the Compass" a detective discovers a Cabalistic pattern to a series of murders, which leads him to the last murder. Another theme is philosophic Idealism. In "Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius" a work is discovered which makes references to a world in which its math, science, and language presuppose idealism. The story "The Zahir", which I would argue also utilizes a horror trope, is about a single object, which, when looked upon, causes the person who saw it to think of nothing else and thus be driven mad.Another theme is permutation. "The Library of Babel" is about a library which contains books which have all the possible combinations of the twenty-odd orthographical symbols. In "The Garden of Forking Paths" one of the characters learns of hyper-text novel.Borges is a fine essayist too. Notable is "Kafka and His Precursors." In this essay, Borges identified works, written before Kafka, which resembles Kafka's fiction.This review has not fully covered this book but I hope those who read this review get a sense of what the book is like
