3113827512	if i could bind my memories into a book, i would start with the time i spend reading this. not because i would want to forget, but so that i could always remember. to have something tangible, documenting how spellbound i became by this story. i guess this review will have to suffice. while this story radiates pure magic and enchantment to captivate bookworms everywhere, this is also a stunning love story. its humble and unassuming and so very touching. while i would have loved more world-building and development of how the book binding magic works and how binders are created, i cant find myself willing to fault this because of how enamoured i was with emmett and memories.effectively structured, beautifully written, and heartwarmingly tender, this book is one i never want to forget. ↠ 4.5 stars
2555304767	We’ve been called witches since the beginning of time. Word-cunning, they used to call it—of a piece with invoking demons…We were burned for it too. The Crusade wasn’t new, we’ve always been scapegoats. Well, knowledge is always a kind of magic, I suppose. Emmett Farmer is a young man with issues. He used to think that he would inherit his family’s farm. It was the life he was used to and the road he expected to follow to, and beyond, the horizon. But he has not been himself lately. His abilities have deteriorated. He loses himself, in time, suffering dizziness, nausea, and weakness. Some say he was cursed by a witch. When he is offered an apprenticeship with a bookbinder, it offers a way out, however frightening the career and his mentor might be. Bridget Collins - image from United Agents, UKDespite some raw similarities, bookbinding in Bridget Collins’s world is not quite the same as it is in ours. Emmett trains with the elderly Seradith, a woman seen as being a witchy sort by some of the locals. In fact, bookbinding is seen as a dodgy sort of work. What is bound in books here are memories. Instead of sharing recollections or stories, as they do in our reality, the memories bound into beautifully crafted leather books in this world are removed from clients by binders. Unlike books in our world, which are designed to be shared, these books are meant to be hidden. Being on the NY Times Top Ten list would kinda defeat the purpose.At least that is the intent. Cheat on your taxes? Pay off your mistress to keep quiet at the height of a political campaign? Sell out your nation’s security in return for real estate consideration by a foreign enemy? Awkward. But there is a solution, well, for part of it, anyway. Go to a binder and the memories will be nicely removed, leaving your tiny mind virginally memory and guilt free, and ready for that sit-down with whoever might be heading an investigation. If memory-cleansing bookbinding existed in our world, I imagine there would be a long line of potential clients. Of course, it might be a challenge to find binders with the innate talent to make those memories move from a client’s brain to the page. One can train in how to work the leather, sew the pages, and do all the material steps entailed in constructing such a book, but only those with a special gift can smooth the passage from one medium to the other. Emmett Farmer, it turns out, has such a gift. It does not help much with tilling fields, but is crucial for this special craft. …the hours passed slowly, full of small, solid details; at home, in the busyness of farm life, I’d never had the time to sit and stare, or pay attention to the way a tool looked, or how well it was made, before I used it. Here the clock in the hall dredged up seconds like stones and dropped them again into the pool of the day, letting each ripple widen before the next one fell. Emmett acclimates to Seradith’s remote locale (out in the marshes), begins to learn the manual end of the binding craft, and is eager to move beyond to learn what bookbinding is really all about (he does not actually know). He is particularly curious about what goes on beyond certain forbidden doors at Seradith’s emporium, but even glancing inside such doors causes him major episodes of what his boss calls Binder’s Disease, costing him days of consciousness and bringing forth strange visions. These strains increase when certain clients arrive. When he finds a book with his name on it, Emmett realizes that he is less than whole.Part Two of the novel is Emmett’s bound story as reported in that book. Part Three returns us to Emmett’s now, and how he deals with what he has learned. More than that about the goings on risks spoiling a key plot twist. But it does touch on forbidden love and the dangers of loving outside one’s class, however that may be defined. The Binding is an engaging page turner of an historical fantasy, particularly the first third, in which we are introduced to Collins’s world, an amalgam of the medieval and circa 1890 rural England. The mystery of Emmett’s affliction is enticing and his experience at Seradith’s is riveting. I found Part Two, Emmett’s bound story, interesting, but nowhere near as gripping. Part three is pretty much a continuation of Part Two, but with Emmett aware of his history, so is more of a cloth with the second than the first part. Not to say that the latter two are not good, just not so fabulous as the opening, in terms of the engagement of the story, at least. In terms of looking at the socio-economic implications of binding, they are wonderful. One fascinating thing is how Collins came up with her concept. She was working as a volunteer at Samaritans, a non-profit that offers people who will listen for people who need to talk. What would it be like if I could reach out and winch that memory from you? She was also taking a book-binding class at the time, and a happy combination was conceived. In setting her story in late 19th century rural England she uses some history of the era to correspond with events in the created reality. For example, the Binding Law of 1850 in Emmett’s world corresponds to the 1850 legalization of gin (I’ll drink to that!) in English law. The Crusades here, for example, were not about perceived Middle Eastern outrages, addressed with European outrages, but were focused on scapegoating binding for the social and economic disruptions brought about by the rise of capitalism. Binders are viewed as women accused of witchcraft have been in our world, dealers in mysterious practices, necessary for providing needed services, but not to be trusted, and maybe evil. There are many novels that use memory loss as a core mechanism. Some elements of these are fairly common. How is memory lost? Literature is rich with examples, usually of the traumatic sort, usually involving violence, typically a blow to the head. These tend to populate books in which memory loss features as a Maguffin for propelling a thriller or mystery. Next down the list is memory lost through illness, typically Alzheimers’ disease. Still Alice fits in there nicely. There are stories in which memory loss is via external misadventure of a broader, science-fictiony sort, things like plagues. The Book of M is a wonderful example. Less populous is the sort in which memory is willingly surrendered, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind pops to mind. (and we elect to keep it there, for now) The Binding relies on the last of these, substituting a bit of magic for the sci-fi explanation offered in Eternal Sunshine. What lifts The Binding above the crowd of memory-loss novels is its consideration of the societal implications of voluntary forgetting. There are complications, of course, and they are wonderfully explored. Some with power want others to forget what they have done. Think of it as an employment contract, or a user agreement for partaking in pretty much any software. You agree to this and that, and such and such, which will entail the surrender of some inalienable rights. Just click agree at the bottom of the mouse-print form. But damn, you need the job, or want to use the software. However, what if what you are surrendering to the seller, or employer, is the right to your own memories? And what if the person in power has done something they would rather you not remember? You might find yourself (or what is left of you) wearing out a path to the binder’s shop for a bit of a memory trim (Boss just sent me over. Says you should just take a bit off the top, please, and close on the sides, ok?) I will leave to your imagination (and the book of course) how such a system might be abused. So, we have an author who looks at political power in a very personal way. Workers of the world unite! You have nothing to lose but your…wait, what was that again? Continuing the image, what if you are starving and selling your memories as a way to put food on the table, the way many in poverty engage in sex work to make ends meet? Puts me in mind of the Beggarwoman from Sweeney Todd (Hey, don’t I know you, Mister?”) Which of course presumes that there are binders out there with somewhat lower ethical standards than the very righteous Seradith. Shocking, I know. To lift the novel even higher is a parallel consideration, the significance, the power of books themselves, what it means to write a book, to read a book, and to share the experiences of another through the written page. I was reminded of The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society and The Book Thief. What if we look at books as a manifestation of self? Not exactly a stretch. Do authors lose a part of themselves when they commit their thoughts to the page? Is reading a book written by someone else a form of voyeurism? Just as in our world, books can be used for benign or malign purposes, books are treated as treasured valuables by some and as a form of personal or mass-produced filth by others. Seradith, essentially, amputates memories, as a physician would take an unhealable limb, a benign act, and saves the bound memory in a beautifully crafted book, kept safe in a vault. Others may make use of such books for corrupt purposes. You, yes you, reading this, you know the power of books, how they can act like a drug, slaking, temporarily, an unquenchable thirst. Very drug-like, no? How about the power of books to heal? Ever read anything that made you feel better? Certainly any well-written memoir can offer one a view of someone’s inner life, but at least in our world, that does not require that the author forget what she has written. Books change lives, whether we read or write them. For writers, a part of themselves definitely finds its way onto the page. And a world in which all books are locked away sounds rather medieval.Collins offers a bit of wry perspective on writing. There’s a growing trade in fakes, you know. Does that concern you?” He paused, but he didn’t seem surprised not to get an answer. “I’ve never seen one—well, as far as I know-but I’m curious. Could one really tell the difference? Novels, they call them. They must be much cheaper to produce. You can copy them, you see. Use the same story over and over, and as long as you’re careful how you sell them, you can get away with it. it makes one wonder who would write them. People who enjoy imagining misery, I suppose. People who have no scruples about dishonesty. People who can spend days writing a long sad lie without going insane…My father, of course, is a connoisseur. He claims that he would know instantly if he saw a novel. He says that a real, authentic book breathes an unmistakable scent of…well. He calls it truth, or life. I think maybe he means despair. I doubt that despair is what you will experience on reading The Binder. This is a marvelous read, a thoughtful, engaging novel, featuring a large dollop of Dickensian social commentary, while following an appealing everyman through the perils of coming of age, and offering in addition insightful observations on memory-as-self and the power of books. I was sure I had something more to say, but I seem to have forgotten what that was. Review first posted – January 4, 2019Publication-----UK – January 10, 2019-----USA – April 16, 2019----------April 21, 2020 - trade paper This review is cross-posted on my site, Coot’s Reviews, all in one piece. Stop by and say Hi!==========In the summer of 2019 GR reduced the allowable review size by 25%, from 20,000 to 15,000 characters. In order to accommodate the text beyond that I have moved it to the comments section below in what is currently comment #5.
2757032418	“Liber vos liberabit - The book shall set you free”If good marketing and stunning art cover lured you here under the pretence that you are going to read some genre-bending fantasy, you need to know that you have been deceived. This is essentially a romance (view spoiler)[A farm boy has a romp with an upper-class lordling his sister hopes to marry and then is sad when the world proves to be a nasty place. Ah no, sorry, my mistake. Happy ending ensues (not for the sister, though). (hide spoiler)] set in a 19th century UK with such tiny dash of magic that an English tea has more milk in it, and as much plot and suspense as a shepherd’s pie recipe offers. In fact, a book-burning scene is the unequivocal highlight of this novel. The book comprises of three parts and two distinct POVs. It offers a first person narrative which is prone to ruminations and slowing down the pace of plot advancement (luckily there is nothing to advance here so that’s not a big problem). Nonetheless, this type of narrative is entirely character-dependent and that proves to be a bit of an obstacle because the main protagonist, one Emmet Farmer, is unbearable. I wasn’t convinced that Emmet has anything substantial to offer because he knows nothing, is insecure and not that smart. He is a kind of “the ground lifted off its anchor and rocked on a sea of darkness” protagonist. Imagine someone wobbly, fainting and unsteady on his feet for the first part and then just an ordinary push-around. There is no character development (no, whining does not count) and at no point does Emmet show some other, surprising side to his personality. The scene when the antagonist (?) (I am really in a quandary here, as for me every single person in this book - save Seredith perhaps - was an antagonist) is introduced, the scene that is meant to show how insensitive and callous this individual is, in fact only shows the complete spinelessness of the MC. Being bossed around your own territory is not a thing that will make you my friend. I can accept a couple of paragraphs for the sake of character development, but not the 300+ pages of it. OK, so here we are: the novel is overtalked, there is nothing pro- about the ‘tagonist’ and thus the interesting setting and original idea is the last hope. Especially that the description promises a whole lot of things riding on the bookbinding concept. This whole bookbinding business is half-confession and half-lobotomy (with divine forgetting instead of divine forgiving); a process that erases part of the person and transfers it into a book. It is a fiendishly clever idea! I wanted to know more: where does this power come from? how does it work? why is it that Emmet is a powerful binder (what makes the person a powerful binder and what is the difference between a mediocre one? what is exactly his strength?) how does the binding happen? None of the above is answered and the last problem is dealt with ONE SENTENCE and it reads: “how it works is a mystery boy.”Jolly good!Which basically means that at some point, the author had this vague idea and instead of working out the details that could be used as building blocks for the story, she just uses it as a premise without further consideration because who cares (I do!) and she is writing a gay romance first and foremost so other things are more important. In my book, this is unforgivable. Why? Because there is an infinite WEALTH of possible PLOTS abandoned just like that and blanks the author has not bothered to fill:We are told that bookbinding a sacred calling, but there are just random people doing things in vastly different ways with no organised guild, and no laws (the whole world is rather lawless) outside of the invisible supply and demand hand of the market. There are ruthless upper-class miscreants but no king that would be in a position to create a veritable dystopian autocracy of bookbound citizens. There are private vaults, but there are no libraries. There are snippets from history (oh there were crusades, ages ago like 50 years back, so everybody forgot already and it’s business as usual) but it is not properly explained why bookbinding is kept secret (bizarre as secrecy jeopardises the whole idea!) and then how is it that some people know and are totally indifferent about it. None of these elements have been thought through and the consequences are only alluded to which frustrated me to no end. Even worse: the blurb insinuated that books are dangerous things. But books are not dangerous in this novel. People are. It is not a book about books (and I love those) as they have no agency whatsoever. It is a story how power corrupts and how humans abuse it: how bindings are being sold without consent, how people become prostitutes selling memories and therefore their selves, bit by bit ceasing to be, how memories are taken without explicit consent in order to perpetuate abuse and exploitation, how you can be blackmailed with a book or outright destroyed.And what do these two fine male specimens do in this slightly dystopian, and unjust world? Do they fix or break the system? Do they try to alter the processes? Perhaps they attempt to straight some individual wrongs? The correct answer is: Nothing. They do nothing that transcends their personal entanglement. They can prevent a murder but they don’t bother in the end. They also terrorise an innocent maid threatening her with an abuse of the binding powers, but all for a good cause so don’t pay heed. This good cause is their own happiness (view spoiler)[which started with cheating on the sister (hide spoiler)] and this is all the Binding is about. This book is nothing but a soft-paranormal romance and I am sure some readers will be fine with it. Cool, there is nothing wrong with romances, I read them too provided that they have acceptable premises and likeable protagonists. The Binding does not have those. The only thing you can desperately clutch here is the fact that the romance happens between two boys and across the societal strata so if those things excite you, you might give this plotless, dreary tale a go.
2454022740	Finishes book. *Blinks.**Blinks again.* SLAMS book fucking shut. S E E T H I N G: AGAHSKAKPZKWOAOVJWOAPWLFYCIAOWKZ— (unintelligible garble insert here). WHAT!!!!!?!?!?!,??? WAS !!!!!?!?!?!,??? THAT !!!!!?!?!?!,???I AM SO ANNOYED NOW WTF. NO ONE TALK TO ME RIGHT NOW. I want to give this book ONE STAR AFTER THAT ENDING. So pointless....Stupid, stupid, s t u p i d. RTC. 1.5 STARS
3214384362	Ciekawy koncept, za to zupełnie niespodziewana strona, w którą cała książka poszła. Momentami się męczyłam, a chwilami płynęłam i nie mogłam jej odłożyć. Baaardzo nierówna i specyficzna. Ale generalnie mogę ją polecać, ja się naprawdę dobrze bawiłam! Nieco klimatem podobna do 10 tysięcy drzwi, ale zdecydowanie lepsza.
3188625021	This was a magical and incredibly well written novel. Emmett is sent away by his parents to work as a Binder’s apprentice. If people want certain bad memories to be taken away they can visit a Binder and be ‘bound’. The resulting book is then kept safe so that the person will never have to relive the memories again. But there are certain Binders who sell books, who treat the trade or its patients with zero respect. When Emmett sees a book with his name on, he wonders what secrets it holds. But the only way to unbind a person is to burn their book if you begin to tell someone their secret it can cause awful pain. I loved the characters, the writing is gorgeous and it is a wonderful premise. The only reason it missed 5 stars for me is because the premise didn’t feel brand new to me. I’ve read (view spoiler)[ more happy than not and there are so many similar themes. Don’t get me wrong I really enjoyed both but for 5 stars a book really has to move and or shock me and this one just missed that. I also wish there was a bit more background on some things. Like (view spoiler)[ why wasn’t Emmett’s sister bound? And what is the binders fever that Emmett suffered from? (hide spoiler)] I really enjoyed this and would recommend to fans of magical realism. (hide spoiler)]
6303613647	4/5 ⭐This book came to me as a surprise and I cannot say I hated it.I remember wanting to buy a physical copy of this book a while ago (4 years ago I think), because it was on a good deal and the cover was stunning. However, something happened and by the time I wanted to add it to my card it was already sold out (it was only one copy on that website). So naturally, I forgot about it...until now.A few days ago I discovered an audiobook of it and I suddenly remembered that hey, I actually wanted to read this one! So I listened to it instead :PGiven the fact that this was more like a fantastical historical fiction, the narrator's very English accents was the absolute best choice for the audiobook. I felt like I was in a magical 19th century Yorkshire village and I lived for it. The story started off quite boring if you ask me. The premise was so good and intriguing, people of the books, people with magical calls, people who can weave and bind other people's memories into actual books. Imagine letting someone taking away your darkest, most unpleasant and terrifying memories, putting them into a book you can simply keep on your shelf, without you remembering any of the trauma all those memories impacted on your mind and soul. Basically, the promise of this book, the whole backbone of the narrative.Well, this book delivered a slow build-up at first, but then it became darker and darker. That's when I realised this isn't, actually, teen fiction. It's dark, twisted and to be fair a little bit kinky too. And I also have to say that this book has one of the most disgusting character ever created, in the form of a father figure. I would've gladly tortured him to his death. And trust me, if you read this book, you would join me too! We will demand blood! It is dark, it is twisty, it is atmospheric and it also has so many deeper meanings through the actions of the characters.
2951039544	H O L Y S H I R T B A L L SThis book is my life. I am stunned by how incredible the writing was, how incredible the characters were, how incredible the storyline is. The Binding is such a unique and interesting book, and as are the ideas that fuelled this book. A book about books, and what amazing books they are. Memories, captured and preserved and taken from a person forever. To be used for good or used for evil, this idea is stunning and I loved reading about it. And then there were the characters. The characters in this book were so beautifully described, and though I may have found Emmett annoying at times, what character isn't? Lucias added a whole new part to this book, and the romance? Well damn, I was about half-way through the book and then suddenly my gaydar was tingling and I was like 'am I sensing something here?'. And damn, what a thing that was. I rarely read such beautiful romantic build-ups, and believe me, I read a lot of books.And god, what a relief to not have an intense cliffhanger at the end. Do yourself a favour and read this book.
2737332068	If this was a recipe it would be 1 cup romance with a teaspoon of fantasy and a sprinkling of fun . It’s a male to male romance in 1800s I’m guessing though it never specifically says, in a world where all bad memories or anything you want to forget can be binded in a book and stored safely away, or so it is supposed to be. Dun dun dunnn. I liked it I got it as an arc on a giveaways here on goodreads . I started it as soon as it came in the mail.⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
2428750557	Book binding is an art. A very real one. Collins infused her fictional binders with the additional ability to weave secrets and memories into their end papers, which freed individuals from the burdens of their guilt and fears. But with these life-altering abilities comes the fear of the other and the lurking allure of abusing this bestowed gift.The Binding was a very different story to the one I had anticipated. The synopsis conjured a whimsical and fantastical alternate history. The book, however, held its roots firmly in reality for much of the novel. All it did deliver made my longing for the former vanish entirely, though. What an incredible concept and a compulsively readable story-line!
3372881773	Well that was incredibly brilliant in every conceivable way. It has genuinely been years since I read a book I enjoyed that much. I highly, highly recommend this one.
3513137727	A slow start, but I'm so glad to have continued The Binding, as I ended up really enjoying the rest of the story!“May your darkness be quiet and the light come sooner than you need,” ~★~ What is this book about? ~★~ Emmett Farmer is plagued by an illness that renders him nearly useless to his family’s livelihood. When he is requested to be a binder’s apprentice, his family believes this is a chance for Emmett to be of use somewhere. Except binders make books of people’s memories they wish to forget- which is why books are forsaken. Emmett knows nothing of binding, and wants nothing to do with the craft, though it seems like the only option left for him. ~★~It was hard for me to connect with this story in the beginning. The intricate descriptions and vague plot set-up had my attention dwindling. I actually considering putting The Binding down, but thankfully I pushed through, and by part two I was hooked!The main thing that captivated me was the characters. Emmett was enticing in his mystery; I loved uncovering bits of his lost past in the same moments he did. The romance was heartbreaking and lovely, taking up a greater portion of this story than I could have anticipated. Thankfully it was well written and unraveled wonderfully!For first person narrative, the writing was surprisingly poignant and graceful. The atmosphere and setting was developed particularly well, I had no trouble establishing the world of The Binding in my head. This unique prose held an incredible amount of potential, and while most of it was delivered well, I was left wanting a tad more in terms of plot. I wished for more information on binding and its history, though otherwise this was a great book.
3703317244	3.5 Stars - This was a hard decision but I am not convinced we needed the horrific descriptions of the painful memories as it was essentially a romance. For me it would have been enough to hint at the horror and then move on.CW: There are some significant triggers in this book with some particularly distressing content.(view spoiler)[description of rape, rape of minor, sexual violence, homophobia, animal abuse/killing, traumatic scene where man is taunting a girl by detailing about how he had been sexually assaulting her and how she had cried etc (her memory had been repeatedly erased after periods of sexual abuse so he could start the cycle of abuse again), suicide, consensual sex. (hide spoiler)]Well I thought the memory book binding was an interestingly dark concept.It is however, important to mention that this is absolutely a romance, with very little time spent on any other elements in this intriguing world. Luckily I had read some informative reviews so it came as no surprise to me. And what a well written, swoon-worthy romance it was! My favourite section was actually from Lucian's POV in the last part. My poor heart was willing love to triumph over adversity. In and amongst this however, is some deeply disturbing content. It was actually quite jarring. Some of the memories people had erased from their minds and bound in books made for difficult reading. I would advise checking out the content warnings. Dark parts aside, and as contradictory as it sounds, this was mostly a lovely romance book!
4019121087	2.5 StarsThis is a world where if wanted, one could willingly bind away their worst memories into a book, forgetting and leaving them there for safe keeping for all eternity. In its best light, such an event is looked upon as a type of medical treatment, allowing a person to move on from horrors they’ve experienced like it never occurred in the first place. However, in this alternate universe, what happens most often, mainly in the upper echelons of society, depravity and evil is hidden so that tormentors and abusers can go on forever in their wicked ways. In the lower realms of society, the business of binding is looked upon with superstition and fear.In and amongst this dark and grim setting is Emmett, a newly discovered Binder who is slowly learning the trade. Emmett’s world is turned upside down because being a Binder isn’t something you choose, it chooses the person and one can’t ignore such a calling. Despite planning a life as a farmer, Emmett is forced to leave all he’s ever known to become an apprentice to a mysterious old lady. When she dies suddenly, Emmett’s life is further upended as he’s dragged to the city to continue his training and there, he quickly learns that bound memories are a hot commodity among the rich. When Emmett sees a book with his name on it, he’s understandably shocked and is rashly forced to burn it to release its truth. What he learns is awful, wonderful, and heartbreaking as it’s all tied to the elusive Lord Lucian.This was not a fun book to read. The main characters for me were hostile, angry, often with a huge chip on their shoulder. There was a tragic love story here, forbidden because MM isn’t accepted, and the obvious stark divide between classes is also a huge barrier. It doesn’t help that the world both Emmett and Lucian live in is nothing bright or happy or special and I too would want to be bound to live in a cloud of ignorance than to face the awful machinations of this created society that loves to see others miserable, being able to lock up their dreadful secrets in private despicable libraries of their own making.Overall, I never warmed up to Emmett, Lucian, or any of the other characters who had way too many faults that impeded my liking this story and impeded my ability to root for the MC’s to get their happy ending. Points for originality, points for well written detailed prose that definitely immersed the reader in the gloomy world Collins created, but this took me forever to finish. Despite all the descriptive minutiae, there were still so many unanswered questions and ultimately, an unsatisfying win that frustrated me with its abrupt ending that should’ve been so much more.
3634357152	I got bound.Ouuff, what a story! I was utterly spellbound from the very first words. In this universe where books are dangerous, love is passionate and stories are realities; i lost myself. If only i could bind those past two days of reading this story into a book i would; not to forget but to always remember it. I see myself re/reading this in the future because i would want to feel everything all over again.Go in blind, and get spellbound - in every literal sense to the word.
2672339965	** spoiler alert ** SPOILERS AHEAD I loved this! And the gays get a happy ending!!!! 2019 is treating us good!!Emmett is a sick young man, but he is handed off by his parents to a binder - a woman who can take traumatic memories and bind them in books to make you forget. She has specifically requested Emmett as her apprentice.Emmett is a conflicted, flawed but wonderful young man with good morals. Lucian is a trapped middle class brat who wants what he can’t have due to his social standing.It is a overlapping book of thematic schemes but they are woven beautifully together in this novel.I loved this book. The plot, the way the plot developed, the well rounded and fleshed out characters, amazing start to the year!
2728006459	I meant to write an actual review a couple days ago already, but I'm still lacking the words for the time being.All I know is that this is one of these rare, magical books that pulled me in to take a piece of my heart and never give it back again.It's almost impossible for most readers, me included, to name just one book when asked about a favorite title. But this one has definitely made it onto the short list I usually give people.
3067122807	★★★☆☆ (3,5/5)⁣⁣⁣En «El Encuadernador» nos encontramos con Emmett Farmer, un joven granjero que es obligado a partir de su hogar para ser aprendiz de encuadernador, un oficio que teme. Muchos son los secretos y misterios que se ocultan detrás de esta profesión que nuestro protagonista desconoce y poco a poco irá descubriendo.⁣⁣⁣⁣⁣ Esta novela se divide en tres partes: combina el presente y el pasado jugando con el lector y dejándonos descolocados. No os voy a engañar, en un comienzo la trama me ha resultado oscura y atrayente. A través de una narración lenta y pausada los hechos se nos revelan paulatinamente de una manera deliciosa. Me ha resultado mágica la manera en la que a través de los ojos de Emmett conocemos los enigmas que hay detrás del oficio que deberá ejercer. El poder del ser humano y el sufrimiento que hay en la gran mayoría de ellos. Todos aquellos que están traumatizados o marcados tienen la opción de encuadernar en un libro sus recuerdos tormentosos de un pasado sombrío que necesitan olvidar.La autora nos sorprende con algunas cosas que no esperas, y aunque hay ocasiones en las que la historia pierda un poco de intriga, Bridget Collins te deja con ganas de seguir devorando el libro.La ambientación es de las cosas que más me han gustado y sorprendido, gracias a su narración podemos sentirnos partes de la novela. Describe el ambiente, y las sensaciones de los personajes de forma inmejorable.Me hubiera gustado más que la trama se centrara obviamente en el trabajo de encuadernador, de contarnos historias y de revelarnos secretos de familias y antiguos linajes. Pero no, la trama da un giro inesperado que se centra en una relación amorosa que si bien en algunos momentos no he terminado de conectar con los sentimientos de los personajes, me ha parecido bonita.En conclusión os diré que es un libro que me ha gustado en rasgos generales, que tiene un final que deja puertas abiertas a una segunda parte (que no sé si se realizará) y que a mi modo de ver tiene una primera parte asombrosa y majestuosa que me ha fascinado.Dadle una oportunidad ya que yo no soy muy de novelas románticas y cuando la trama gira en torno a eso pierdo un poco el interés. La ambientación y la caracterización de los personajes valen mucho la pena.
3207783971	Novela que comencé a leer sin conocer su sinopsis y que prometía debido a las buenas críticas que había visto, nos cuenta la historia de Emmett Farmer, un joven granjero tiene que dejar a su familia para ir a trabajar como aprendiz de una vieja encuadernadora, Seredith, en contra de su voluntad, Emmet que no ha visto un libro en su vida, se ve encerrado en una casa sin saber a qué se dedica su nueva “jefa”.A partir de ahí la historia decae, si bien la primera parte me entretuvo, aunque esperaba más del trabajo de la encuadernadora, igual que Emmet que no sabe nada, en la segunda parte la trama da un giro espectacular y se centra en una relación sentimental hasta el final del libro, que ya en la tercera parte se hace un poco pesada, aburrida y le sobran páginas.No ha sido lo que yo esperaba, no hay magia, ni fantasía, salvo el tema de la encuadernación que toca por encima y deja un hilo abierto no sé si a una segunda parte.A pesar de esto, la novela me tuvo enganchada hasta el final, se lee muy fácil, es entretenida, y la edición es súper bonita.
2444578936	Title: The BindingSeries: StandaloneAuthor: Bridget CollinsRelease date: January 7, 2019Genre: historical fiction, fantasyI had such high hopes for this book and I'm so disappointed that I didn't love it. When I read the synopsis it sounded like Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind which is a favorite film of mine. It's about a couple who have broken up and erase each other from their memories to forget the heartbreak they suffer from. The twist on that concept is that the memories being erased are being bound inside books. Books! I loved the concept and I couldn't wait to explore it more. This was quite a bit darker than I expected. A lot more. In fact there could be triggers for readers in this book, (view spoiler)[rape, sexual abuse, suicide (hide spoiler)] and I don't think the synopsis properly conveys what to expect in this one on several levels.The Binding is set in a world sometime in the late 1700s, early 1800s, 60 years after "The Crusades." There are a lot of references to it, but obviously not the real life holy/political war that ended in the 1200s. This war which persecuted book binders as witches establishes the society as a puritanical one, painted as intolerant and prejudiced against the unknown. Emmett Farmer has always had a curiosity for books, but his parents were scandalized when they saw him reading one as a child. He was sharply struck and forbidden to ever have one in his possession again. However, one day they receive a summons from a local binder who wants him as her apprentice and they ship him off to her remote home out of fear. Emmett has no wish to leave his family, but his mental "illness" has been a burden on his family and he believes it may be for the best. I couldn’t remember getting sick; if I tried, all I saw was a mess of nightmare-scorched fragments. Even my memories of my life before that—last spring, last winter—were tinged with the same gangrenous shadow, as if nothing was healthy anymore.Once at the Binder's, Emmett soon learns that books are not just simple stories recorded for the reader's enjoyment as he previously believed. He never understood the stigma attached to them, but suddenly it's all becoming more clear. The people who arrive in the middle of the night, wracked with mental anguish leave in a calm stupor. Numb ghosts of themselves, they're ushered out as if starting a new chapter in their lives. The previous pages stricken out of existence, like a big red pen crossing through mistakes better left out of the final version. The books Seredith creates are secreted away and protected at all costs, but not all Binders have her integrity. The irony here is that she is virtually the only binder who was shown to the reader who wasn't corrupted by greed and malice. Yet she was the one who was scorned the most by everyone for her old-fashioned, so-called useless practices in binding. Those whom the world should fear the most were the devil sitting next to you at a dinner party. Collins constructed the Binding process that's mired in darkness, so much so that I wasn't able to detect any benefit from it all. Seredith claimed it was serving people, "doctoring their souls" so they could find peace. But I saw no evidence that there was anything good about this magic bestowed on them. You don't doctor a soul by trying to erase pain from existence. Through our worst mistakes and trials in life we are taught vital lessons that help us grow. As we see in the book, the people who are bound are tormented by nightmares that creep in. Sleep and wake bring them foggy feelings of disquiet that could be triggered at any time. There's no healing in an artificial erasing of pain. It's bottled up inside, silently trapping you in your subconscious. The problem for me was that though the hero struggled with his conscience over being "called" to binding, in the end he would continue to seek out work in the practice. Even after seeing the dark underbelly of the beast and how it wreaked havoc on his own life. As the storyline wears on, you discover characters who use binders to hide their sins so they may continue to do harm. And the binders who serve them regularly can't be bothered to care about the consequences of their actions on the victims. They weave through the upper class in the finest silks, garments paid for with the suffering of those not worth a second thought. Classism is a strong theme in the book. The poorer "peasants" are forced to sell their memories out of desperation, and their struggles to survive are far removed from the elite whose money buys silence and respect. One aspect to The Binding I thought was kind of funny was the author's tongue in cheek shot at fiction books. There were "fakes" (otherwise known as novels) that were mocked as useless and silly. Because after all, who would want to read made up stories about heartbreaking things? You can copy them, you see. Use the same story over and over, and as long as you’re careful how you sell them, you can get away with it. It makes one wonder who would write them. People who enjoy imagining misery, I suppose. People who have no scruples about dishonesty. People who can spend days writing a long sad lie without going insane.”I quite enjoyed the fantasy aspects of the book and the exploration of the morality and dynamics of it all. The writing style of Collins was especially flowery and descriptive. I typically enjoy this style, so it didn't slow down my reading pace at all. But I did find that after a few chapters in I saw patterns in the descriptions that because extremely repetitive. For example, until I read this book I had no idea that there were SO MANY ways to describe light. I'm not exaggerating when I say that every time a scene changed, someone looked out a window, woke up, went to sleep, walked into a room...anything. They observed a patch of light and how it appeared. How it illuminated someone, how it moved, faded, sparkled, consumed shadows. ✒︎A wedge of lamplight was shining through a gap in the kitchen curtains...✒︎Behind her the light from a lamp crossed the upper window as someone went to bed. ✒︎...red gold blaze of the last sunlight was reflected in the windows.✒︎The light lay on the floorboards in a silvery lattice.✒︎...there was a hint of light, a crack between the clouds and the horizonAfter a while when you read so many repetitious variations, it just makes you want to skim past it. Sadly, my biggest grievances with the story was the romance and the ending. The romance was love triangle with the hero's sister as the third party. It was a forbidden romance where feelings were kept quiet in the hopes that they would go away. A major problem for me was that his sister was innocent of veiled intentions and misconceptions, and inevitably she was a victim when truths were revealed. The two main characters snuck around in secret and their actions were a major betrayal of trust. In the second half of the book the love interest became a snobby, cowardly, and unlikable person. I understood that circumstances and home life caused this, but their bitterness and anger made them hard to root for. At one point, they knowingly caused a man's murder by his own careless words and couldn't bring themselves to try to help him. The story sank deeper and deeper into desperation and gloom and I sped on waiting for a resolution to it all. The ending I give one star. It was pitifully abrupt and so unsatisfying. I wanted the villain of the book to get his comeuppance and instead we saw absolutely nothing happen. It was as if the ending was hacked off right in the middle of a scene leaving you with a feeling of deprivation. I found some things about the story to be compelling, but the execution overall wasn't for me. However, I'm sure many will love the intriguing concept, so I urge you to read it and judge for yourself. FOLLOW SMOKIN HOT BOOK BLOG ON: ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2661652942	The Binding, Bridget Collins's first adult novel, is a book full of wonderful magic and searing heartache. A special hybrid of fantasy and historical fiction, it is a sumptuous and emotional affair which is substantial in its sincerity and exquisite in its writing. The premise, that memories you wished to be forgotten can be bound and effectively erased from a person's life, is a unique one and one I was on board with from the beginning. But this original concept is not the end of the story as it brings together two characters, Emmett and Lucian, in a beautiful, heartfelt love story. Two lovers that cross the class divide, with one being rich and one poor, but also many other divides of the time period. Collins's world is lush, richly imagined and one I really didn't want to leave. This is a breathtakingly spectacular read and rates as one of the first fantastic reading experiences of 2019. The plot is a slow burn for the first half of the novel, which I enjoyed, and from then on it gathered pace a little. The perfect pacing is matched by the equally perfect storytelling ability of the author; it's rare you come across a more exceptional portrayal of time and place. An utterly charming and nuanced story with all the makings of a bestseller that captivated me from first page to last. Stunning!Many thanks to The Borough Press for an ARC.
2737493715	I'm not mad, I'm disappointed. (Actual rating 2.5)(Also this review contains spoilers, so... you know.)Reading this book was like falling in love with the perfect man only to find out that he sleeps with socks on. It was like Starbucks getting your order wrong but you're too embarrassed to say anything about it so you just sip reluctantly until it's lukewarm and then throw $7 down the drain. It was like finding a cute jacket at Forever 21 that says "I love tacos" on the back.It was disappointing."But Cris," you say, "you gave it a 3/5 star rating — after all the awful books you read this year! It can't be that bad!"First of all, pay attention. I gave it TWO-POINT-FIVE stars. Secondly, this book made my two inner wolves (hype and rage) fight each other, and I don't know who's winning. Certainly not me. Let me tell you what The Binding promised us, and then let me tell you what we got.The Binding by Bridget Collins follows Emmett Farmer, a young man with a mystery illness struggling to help his family run their farm in the countryside. After a letter arrives asking for him, Emmett is whisked away to a cottage in the woods to become a Binder's apprentice — an occupation feared and misunderstood. There, Emmett will learn how to bind your worst memories into a book: your traumas, your tears, your misdeeds. You'll be rid of them, finally free to live your life. That is, until one day, when a mysterious young man named Lucian Darnay comes in for a binding. Emmett doesn't recognize him, but there is an unmistakable sense of knowing between the two boys, answered for only when Emmett finds his own book.Sounds good, right? I'd swipe right. In fact, I did. And then I was catfished.The Binding is a story told in three acts. Let's go through them together:1. The Act Where Binding is Relevant and InterestingIn the first part of the book, Emmett is brought to the bindery to learn under the tutelage of Seredith, an old woman who seems to know more about Emmett than he knows about himself. She teaches him some basics, helps him through his bouts of illness, otherwise known as "binder's fever." I loved Seredith. I loved her as a character and as an expression of what I assumed the book's theme would be: namely that our innermost traumas should be honoured and soothed, even if they never see the light of day, and that compassion is essential in healing.(Spoiler alert: This was not the theme. This book does not have a theme.)(Spoiler alert 2, electric boogaloo: SHE F*CKING DIES. LIKE IMMEDIATELY.)If you're thinking, "huh, that's quick — for a significant sage-character to die a quarter of the way through the novel," you would be right. In fact, everything is far too fast in this part, and yet simultaneously draaaaags onnnnnn. Worse yet is that, with Seredith, dies the whole theme of the novel and any importance binding whatsoever. I bet you thought binder's fever was cool, huh? A thematic exploration of suppressing trauma, maybe? After all, it certainly reads like it:"Before this, I'd never been ill in my life. I never knew that my body could betray me, that my mind could go out like a lamp and leave nothing but darkness. I couldn't remember getting sick; if I tried, all I saw was a mess of nightmare-scorched fragments. Even my memories of my life before that — last spring, last winter — were tinged with the same gangrenous shadow, as if nothing was healthy any more."Too bad it stops being relevant and is never explored again in any significant way. This act set up some super interesting themes and reveals, and then drops them like I drop my paycheck two days into the week.2. Extended Flashback That I Thought I Would Hate but Didn'tI'm assuming if you've read this far that you don't care about spoilers. So I'm just gonna tell you that Emmett remembers everything. And it's through a very, very long flashback scene in the middle of the book. Which is a recipe for disaster. So why didn't I hate it?Because it knew what it was. This section seemed to somehow successfully slow-burn without dragging. I genuinely cared about what was happening (low bar, I know), even though there was nary a mention of binding in sight. Somehow, it was my favourite part of the book: the pacing was fine, the character development was great, and the narrative voice was immersive and true to period. The romance between Emmett and Lucian was engaging and heartfelt.Anyway, enough of what I liked, because that ended, and then I was left with... well...3. What the F*ck Was That?Come one, come all, to the part of the book that ruined the rest of it for me!Here we enter Lucian's PoV. For some reason, it's written in present-tense. Who knows why. I don't care. But this part is bad. We lose Emmett's story and progress, we lose any sense of binding that isn't Big Evil™, and I lose patience. The book takes a huge tonal shift that doesn't get resolved, and though who can say if Lucian is consistent as a character (I can: he's not), Emmett certainly isn't. He becomes a bizarre and whiny vagrant who basically accosts Lucian at any given moment (who, due to his binding, has no idea who Emmett is). I truly could not care less about Lucian's perspective, though that's generally the case with the upper class anyway (#eattherich). The book loses momentum completely and I truly cannot figure out what point this act is to serve except maybe to expand on its world and the consumption of others' trauma by the rich. Okay, I can dig that — except why are we bringing that up now, especially when our point of comparison, Seredith, is dead by this time? And especially when our perspective of binding is gone? And especially when Emmett is at his absolute least interesting and couldn't care less about the namesake craft if you paid him in summer evenings spent with his hands gliding across Lucian's sweaty back. This book has an utterly disappointing ending that makes it seem like whole chapters are missing, and not in that I want more kind of way. Entire character and thematic arcs get cut brutally off and are replaced with an entirely different form of narration that ultimately seems disconnected from the whole.So — with all that said:FINAL THOUGHTSI wanted to give this book 2 stars to help it inch away from its bizarrely high rating because I'm petty af, but after all the other objectively awful books I read this year, it felt wrong sorting The Binding into quite the same league. I can see what this book tried to be, somewhere underneath its patchwork structure, and so I'm skewing my rating to a 3 because of its two decent first parts. Unfortunately, this book suffers a severe lack of vision that causes a huge foundational issue: what is The Binding trying to say? It's fodder for the analyst to read a book about books, especially when so many interesting and important questions are raised: How might fiction serve to talk about our innermost truths? If we could throw away our trauma, would it let us lead better lives, or would some part of us always be missing? In a world where telling your story means losing it forever, what does it mean to buy or sell a book?I would have liked answers, or at least theories. Instead, I got a story that forgot what it was halfway through. I guess that's apt for a book about forgetting.
3355382163	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |“Bindings are for desperate people. People who can't go anywhere else.” Surprising, occasionally frustrating, and relentlessly sad, The Binding never seemed to reach its full potential. I was genuinely intrigued by the premise (an alternative history in which book binders get rid of people's 'bad' memories?) even if I know that the whole 'memory-erasing' idea isn't wholly original (Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, More Happy Than Not).Throughout the first section of The Binding Bridget Collins' keeps her cards close to her chest. We gather that the setting is in an alternative 19th-century England and that our narrator, Emmett Farmer, has just recovered from a mysterious illness. When Seredith, an old and secluded binder, requests that he become her apprentice, Emmett is left no choice and has to leave his parents' farm. While working under Seredith's roof Emmett briefly meets a young man whose appearance and behaviour stick to his mind.When Seredith finally reveals Emmett what 'book binding' truly is, he's uneasy about the whole thing.The second and third section of the book take us down slightly different paths, although I must admit that the final part of the novel felt like a rehash of the first part.I liked the ambiguity created by Emmett's not knowing what happened to him or why Lucian Darnay's face haunts him so. The book binding itself raises some thought-provoking questions about consent, and the characters do discuss the ethics of erasing someone's memory. Sadly it seemed that it was mostly older men using binders to 'erase' their crimes (making binders wipe the memories of their victims/witnesses who were often women, quelle surprise). The setting is rudimentary: vaguely historical, with little about this England's history, and the narrative mostly focus on the class divide between those like Emmett and those like Lucian, without really expanding on other aspects of this 'alternative' English society. A few characters mention terms such as the 'Crusades' or 'deportation' but other than that we have little information about this country. I would also have liked at one point or another to have more details about the book binding itself (when did it start? how many binders are there? etc...).The romance was a bit disappointing too. One of them always seemed to hate the other, and I couldn't really see why all of a sudden they were in love. The whole plot involving their horrible families was frustrating. Emmett and his love interest are manipulated time and again (Emmett's sister was a HORRIBLE little monster, and I should feel sorry for her? As if!). The story seems to fall into a pattern where Emmett and Lucian are made to suffer. They are sad, and sad, and some sad some more.Towards the end they both do some questionable and out-of-character things, seemingly disregarding the safety and lives of other people...which okay.The story didn't feel all that 'solid', there were some rather shaky aspects that made sense for 'plot reason', too much time was spent on the two leads mistrusting one another, the few secondary characters were pretty one-dimensional, and the final part went all over the place, and eventually lead to a rushed ending that left so many things unresolved. Still, Collins' does create an intriguing atmosphere and the changes in tone and pace in the story kept things interesting.All in all, I liked it more than not and I would definitely read something else by Collins.
2992198657	Ok completely out of my comfort zone, the first part of this book was slow but intriguing, the second half of the book I found very hard to put down it was well worth the read.Happy Reading 📚📗📙📒📚📓📘📗📚📙📖📗📙📒📚📓📘📗📕📖
3179371101	3.5⭐
2668005518	Great concept, but didn't live up to its potential in my opinion. I wasn't keen on the characters and I kept on thinking how much better a plot I could have come up with based on this concept.
3142152775	To fully enjoy The Binding, I feel as though you need to go into it knowing as little of the plot as possible - just know that I fell completely into this world where books consist of memories, given freely, but often lamented. For is it easier to feel nothing, or grieve for a moment you can't remember?The plot is slow building, told over three parts, as we initially follow Emmett as he recovers from an unknown sickness and is taken in by a book binder as an apprentice. In this world, book binders are seen as suspicious and untrustworthy individuals, with witch like abilities to capture memories into books. It was an interesting blend of historical fiction with a hint of fantasy that doesn't overwhelm the plot. We know right from the start of the story that something has happened to Emmett, but he can't seem to remember what it is, or why the book binder has called him away from the family farm. He's lost without really knowing why, aimlessly taking up the craft of binding books as his master informs him that he has a natural talent for it. This initial part is confusing, as the reader knows as little about what is going on as Emmett himself does and a lot of the plot is spent building up this world without really giving any explanations. It was frustrating, but perfectly reflected Emmett's own attitude and lack of direction. We come to see Emmett as someone who loves his family with his whole heart, and just wants to do what's best, but it feels like there's something missing about his character. As though there's a whole layer of himself that's been laid bare and then stripped away. As though he's been bound.The story takes a completely different turn from part 2, switching to first person perspective and diving head first into an emotional roller coaster. Everything I loved about this story would definitely be considered spoilers, but the characters crept up on me just as they do on Emmett. It took me completely by surprise, and I was delighted and taken in by the story of what happened over that fateful summer. (view spoiler)[Lucien Darney is a remarkable character. When we first see him from Emmett's perspective early on in the book he's an inconsequential character who Emmett doesn't seem to know, and barely acknowledges. But you feel that there's something there, just out of reach, between the two. A deeper connection. He's a broken man by this point. But that summer...he's almost reborn. Because of Emmett - pure, naive and wholesome Emmett. The forbidden love between them, as Emmett struggles with his feelings for Lucien and his warring conscience about Alta, where beautifully written and had me completely enraptured. The revelation that Lucien has used a book binder to erase Emmett from his memories (how very Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind) just brought part 1 into a whole new context. I even had to go back and reread the first part so I could take in the subtle clues I'd missed.In the 3rd part we follow Lucien's perspective and see that he shares an extremely complicated relationship with his vile and abusive father. A father who gaslights him on a regular basis, making him feel as though he's nothing and no one. A coward with no future of his own, someone who could never be loved. His life, although on the surface appears to one of luxury, is laced with cruelty and violence. To see Emmett's face on realising just what Lucien had done broke my heart - to give away his one summer of pure, unadulterated happiness with Emmett. I would have loved to have seen Emmett's internal conflict in whether he should tell Lucien some form of the truth warring with whether he should just let him go. I was desperate for them to both remember at the same time. I also really liked the role reversal we see in the latter stages of the book, with Emmett taking over the role of seducer from Lucien, reteaching him the ways to love. I also really liked that we got to see each protagonist through the eyes of the other, with each seeing the other as something above and beyond what they think of themselves. (hide spoiler)]I did find that at times this skipped over the finer details of the plot, especially when we switch perspectives and miss large chunks of what has happened to Emmett. The concept of book binding, and it's importance in this world, could also have been further explored - as we often only see glimpses of the murky underworld of illegal texts and corrupt binders that I found really interesting. I also found the ending to be rather abrupt and ambiguous, with the reader left to imagine if there's a happy ending or not. I like to think there is, but maybe I'm just a romantic.A wonderful historical fiction with fantasy skewed elements that combines everything I love about both genres, with protagonists I couldn't help but fall for. Highly recommend.TW: Animal cruelty, sexual abuse, abusive relationships, domestic violence, suicide (on page)
2864873384	DNF @ 40%A strange thing happens in The Binding. We are taken through Part I which is full of magical intrigue, book binding principles, books galore; and then it's all ripped away. Part II opens up and it's like nothing in Part I happened at all! Now we are just stuck on a farm with our (not so interesting) and seemingly non-magical teen boy. Whereas in Part I the same teen boy was just coming into his own personally and professionally (as a magical book binder) when we are pulled away from the story. Good Stuff Too EarlyIn a world where it is increasingly difficult to capture the attention of any one person, never mind a large group of people, it's critical that you not give away too much of the good stuff too soon. If the beginning of a book, like The Binding, is infinitely more interesting than the rest then any author is going to have a hard time keeping their reader around for another 300+ pages. As I didn't read the whole book (I gave up during Part II) I went and read some spoiler plot points and other reviews. These all confirmed exactly what I suspected, the good stuff was all over and the rest of The Binding might have been be a good story IF you didn't know what happened in Part I. What Bridget Collins should have done with The Binding is flipped narratives around and started with a teaser of Part I and then stuck us into Part II right away. That way we haven't had our attention piqued and the interesting stuff ripped from our attention. Our world has a lot of competition for attention and ultimately enticing people to to read more must be a large priority. Sadly farms, even ones with cute m/m possible relationships, just aren't that interestin (or at least not near as interesting as books full of memories).Books about BooksI've said it before, there is nothing quite as easy as marketing a book about books (or book related activities) to a bunch of bookworms. It should be a slam dunk. You might not get the mass appeal that Stephen King garners but you'll likely get a small, devoted following to your story. The Binding is one of these books that should have been an easy sell to someone like me. A book about binding books that have magical properties!? Sign me up now! Now, maybe my excitement about the possibility of a fantasy and magical realism mixed in with the art of book binding (not with a machine but by hand) had my expectations too high? Or maybe I just wanted to have the whole story be about books (and Part II clearly wasn't)? Or perhaps it's a little of both; which seems the most likely. Either way the use of book binding should have made this a worthy read; too bad there isn't any book binding in Part II up to the point I read.Writing, Setting, etc.It's really too bad that the focus and plot of The Binding fly off the rails as the writing itself is really lovely. It's a romantic, sing-songy style that invoked an archaic, medieval feel for me. the descriptions and use of magic in Part I are just enough without being overwhelming; and our lead boys response to the magic and how it affects him is really well done. I especially appreciated that he was sick for a long time before he could do even small amounts of magic or binding. No easy road here for this hero. It felt realistic in a way that most magical fantasy stories aren't able to convey. It's so tragic that this writing, imagery and setting don't result in a plot and story that I cared about enough to finish the novel.OverallCollins has some definite talent for setting a scene and creating worlds that are well developed. Additionally Collins clearly knows how to write characters that readers can bond with almost immediately. Because of this obvious talent in writing I would try another Collins book again; even though I did not finish this one. The Binding should have been one of my top reads of the year; and if Part I had continued forward in the same style, setting, etc. it might have been. Unfortunately we end up on a farm bored out of our minds with the harvesting, horses and not enough to keep it all going. It's sad because I bet the m/m relationship that was developing between our two teen boys was adorable. However there is no amount of cuteness between two characters (even gay ones) that will have me put up with descriptions of grains and farm animals for dozens and dozens of pages. Please note: I received an eARC of this book from the publisher via Edelweiss. This is an honest and unbiased review.
3173458914	Me esperaba más de este libro, no es que esté mal, pero tampoco está del todo bien... Vale sí muy bien, muy original historia, pero creo que no ha sabido tratarlo de modo adecuado ..Extracto del libro: Nos llaman brujos desde los albores de la humanidad. Hablaban de «hechiceros de palabras», que viene a ser lo mismo que invocadores de demonios. También nos quemaban por ello. La Cruzada no fue ninguna novedad, siempre hemos sido chivos expiatorios. En fin, supongo que el conocimiento siempre es una especie de magia.
3141579648	Attention: This is a book probably best read cold. The library flap description is pretty vague, so by the time I got to this on my pile I’d forgotten what it said. The GR description is much too detailed -- if you decide to read this book, DO NOT read the GR blurb. When Emmett Farmer is called to work as an apprentice to the local binder -- a woman who makes beautiful books that no one is encouraged to read -- he assumes that it’s because he’s been ill and is too weak to do field and farm work. And I hardly dare say more. My apologies that this is a bit of a disjointed review -- it’s very hard to talk about this book without giving the whole story away. I really enjoyed this book. It’s set up in three parts. Part One sees Emmett sent to work with the binder, and, along with showing his learning the more practical side of the art, drops hints about Emmett’s past that left me eager to know more. Part Two confirmed the foreshadowing of a Big Reveal. Part Three changes to a different POV and different tense (Parts One and Two are written in past tense; Part Three is present tense), which really annoyed me for a while, but once I adjusted to it, I enjoyed the final section as much as the first two. I loved the writing in this book. At the beginning there were too many “as if” constructions for my taste, but they either dwindled or I stopped noticing them. I found the writing visually vivid and strongly emotionally engaging. Many other reviewers have felt quite the opposite, so this is clearly just a matter of personal taste and connection to the words. I loved it even though it’s a bit of a grim and dreary story set in a grim and dreary place -- I imagined much of the story in black and white, even when colors were described. And yet I found the grimness beautiful and compelling. Maybe I’ve just been in a very good mood while I read this. At its foundation, this is a love story. And I was rooting for that love through the entire book. For once, I’m writing an “Unpopular Opinion” that’s a positive one. And I suspect I might have enjoyed this book as much as I have because most of my friends have 3-starred it and written very unenthusiastic reviews -- I honestly thought about just not reading it after looking at those, and went into it with very low expectations. So I ended up very pleasantly surprised. ------------------------------------------------Side Note: One reason I really appreciate this book is because to me, it felt like a response to More Happy Than Not, which I found to be utterly disappointing. If anyone else has read both that book and The Binding, I’m curious to know if you see any relationship between the two stories.
2618628523	Very difficult book to review this, without giving away the secrets that make it pure magic on the page, but let’s see how we go.Imagine if you could bind away your memories in a book – once written and bound you forget. You can leave the bad behind. Is that good? Or would it empty you of that which makes you who you are..Emmett has been unwell, a fever of the mind, when he is called to learn the trade of the bookbinder. So begins an unusual love story, a speculative fantasy tale, a beautifully complex social commentary in a world that lives and breathes.The Binding is a slow burner of a literary delight, gorgeous immersive prose and an utterly compelling story. A novel of many layers, with a huge heart and a melancholy emotional core, it was utterly riveting from the very first page. Gently impacting on you as you read in a way you won’t realise until you are done, The Binding is an intelligent and well woven story that speaks to who we are at a very human level. Recommended.
3035016483	Przemyślałam to i daje 2.75 ⭐️
4345018238	I wish these binders actually existed, so one of them could erase my memory of reading this book.
2745040323	Marvelous! It was just what I needed right now. Such a magical story with great characters and wonderfully developed romance. I want more!
3470013365	Un libro muy bonito y con una premisa muy interesante, aunque no lo recomiendo para lectores impacientes, puesto que creo que el disfrute de esta historia radica no en la acción ni en una trama trepidante, sino en la ambientación, la melancolía y la belleza de la narrativa. El concepto de los encuadernadores me gustó muchísimo <3
2779069690	found this novel very slow moving and boring just wasn't my cup of tea even after all the social media hype
4097576050	I’m going to go with 5 stars for this wild, immersive book. I went in knowing basically nothing and I think that is truly the best way to go. Just know that your heart will be broken (but hopefully repaired by the end).
2679545039	↠4+I finished it, it took me some time but I finally finished it. And to be honest I don’t know should I kick myself for not finishing it sooner or pat myself on the shoulder. I loved reading this so much.Collins created a world where books are forbidden and feared, where Bookbinders are looked upon as witches that can steal memories that they bind into books and all that is narrated with a wonderful, eloquent writing. I must say that I usually don’t like when there are miles and miles of description with a handful of dialogues, but here I was mesmerized by the descriptions and the way they were written.As the synopsis is selling one story many were disappointed that it was a whole other story by the end and not what they expected. Yes, it promises a fantasy where special people, Binders, can take someone’s memories of pain, loss and their secrets and make it “all better”. No, that’s not what you get, well you do… but you don’t get an explanation of the magic that’s behind the binding, and the world isn’t much in fantasy (or at all, besides the Binders) it’s all the way historical fiction. Are you expecting to stay on a strict course with the memories to books theme? Sorry, that’s not what happens as the book takes the path of romance, BUT even though there’s romance binding has its claws into that too. It shows the bad side of binding, the consequences it can have on people, it shows the misuse of power by some binders and even by some wealthy people that use the services.The book is split into three parts, I didn’t fully like that, but I do understand the point it was supposed to make, or at least the way I interpreted it. The first part shows us our main protagonist that doesn’t know much or anything for that matter about binding and through his eyes we see how his life plays as he is thrust into the binding world (view spoiler)[((and all that while he’s unaware he had been bound himself)) (hide spoiler)]. The second part shows the memories he’s been forced to allow to be bound, and it’s the part where the romance starts. The third part is told from the perspective of the love interest and their binding; (view spoiler)[((reading about their binding felt different than Emmett’s as now we know the majority of the story opposite of the first binding where we were unaware of it with our character.)) (hide spoiler)]I preferred the first part over the other two as it is more concentrated on the binding story, and that’s the part I would rate with five stars. I liked the second part for the slow burn romance that was building; I was living for it, but something changed for me after they got together, I guess I like more the buildup than the ending up together part in romances. I enjoyed Emmett telling the story however in the third part my liking of the book dropped a little bit because he wasn’t the narrator.
2718542432	I knew a bit going in and this is one time I’m glad I did. Early on a shelf I saw on my friend’s shelving gave me a huge hint about one detail and I guess I’m okay with that too, even though it took a while to be sure of what was precisely going on. I did quickly figure out some things on my own. Other things I kept guessing which was fun. The detailed reveals never disappointed me.I enjoyed the writing and storytelling style. For me it started off a bit slow but as I read on it became a quicker and quicker and quicker read, hard to put down. Wonderfully constructed sections! There are three sections. The three parts almost feel like different books because focus and some characters and even perspective changes, but the parts also make up a brilliantly constructed whole. I can see where there is room for a sequel but this is fine as a standalone book, even though I found the ending too short and a bit too abrupt and even though, much to my surprise, I might have liked the third section best. If there is a sequel, I might read it but I’m also okay using my imagination becasue a resolution in the present is provided, even though a specific future isn’t shown.I liked the characters a lot, Lucian and Emmett. Seredith, even though every time I read her name it felt painfully apparent to me that it was a made up name for this story. So many interesting characters throughout though only a very few end up being well rounded and deeply developed. That was okay though. There is a lot of suspense in this story. It definitely made me want to keep reading. This tale is thought provoking re memory, memories, regarding whether it’s better to retain bad memories or forget them, and it’s interesting to contemplate erasure of memories and losing of something of oneself vs. living with them. There is also a lot think about around the issue of power, particularly misuse of power but also the powerful and powerless in general. Privacy issues also come up. So a lot of this historical and speculative fiction story seem very topical.The story has a lot of humor and sweetness, but there are many things that will be difficult for some readers to read. There is a lot of cruelty in this historical world with the characters in this book. One dog scene had me extremely distraught, even though it was short and not overly graphic. There is child abuse and neglect, sexual abuse/rape of women, including probably some teen girls, a suicide, etc. etc. etc.For this book I was glad to have already known something about binding, some things about the journey and something about how things get resolved. Usually I want to know little going in to a book and many readers will not want to know much about this book before reading it, but in this case, unusually, I’m glad I knew what I knew prior to reading. It kept me from feeling lost or feeling hopeless about things.
3154481335	I bought this book because of the cover, and because Tracy Chevalier had called it ‘spellbinding’, and because quite a few people I follow on social media had been raving about it. Well, now it’s my turn to rave. The Binding is one of those books that transcend genres. It should most probably be defined as historical fantasy, but the magic is so close to our own reality that its really only a couple of turns of the dial away from magic realism. It’s a love story, but so delicately developed it’s unlike most romances I’ve ever read. And it’s a book about the power of books, something that always draws me irresistibly. The setting is very much like Victorian Britain, with hansom cabs and top hats. The story begins as a first-person narrative, from the point of view of a young man named Emmet Farmer. He’s been deliriously ill, and is having trouble recovering. A summons come: he has been chosen to be apprenticed to a Bookbinder. Emmett doesn’t want to go. Bookbinders are regarded with superstitious distrust and suspicion. There is something unnatural about their craft, something uncanny. Emmett has no choice, however. He has a vocation, he’s been told. The Bookbinder is an old woman who lives on the edge of the marsh. Local villagers think her a witch. Slowly Emmett comes to understand theat the craft of a Bookbinder is to take away people’s memories, to free them from the pain of the past. It’s a sacred calling, but one that can be dangerously misused. Emmett comes to realise that there is something he has forgotten, something vital, and that the Bookbinder has hidden away a book with its name on it. I cannot tell you any more about the plot without spoiling it, but this is a beautifully crafted novel of love and loss, magic and memory, hatred and hope – I loved it.
3564684577	"Палітурник" мої очікування та реальність. 👀 очікування: книга про книги, розкриття інтригуючого мистецтва палітурництва, збирання чужих історій, позбавлення людей від болю, роздуми на цю тему, моральні дилеми, які вона породжує.📚 реальність: одна емоційна й болюча історія забороненого кохання двох людей, розкриття важливих тем, серйозні моральні дилеми, численні особисті роздуми про усі складнощі книги [чи я б сама віддала свій біль, щоб жити без тягарів, які тягнуть мене вниз? чому людство настільки зіпсоване, що зажди знайде як перетворити щось хороше на зло, на засіб, який буде використовуватися для власного збагачення, для насильства та як зброю?].І хоч мої очікування та реальність були трішки різними, але рівнозначно прекрасними! Настрій книги повністю виправдав мої меланхолійні сподівання й навіть перевиконав у болючому сенсі.Хоча про палітурництво все ж хотілося б дізнатися більше. Обожнюю подібні унікальні ідеї, особливо коли вони такі книжкові й з таким затяжним післясмаком із роздумів!
2669979594	Every so often, once in a decade if I’m lucky, a book comes along that grips me with such force that I lose my mind a little. In my pre-teens it was The Water Babies, in my teens Rebecca, in my 20s The Time Traveller’s Wife, in my 30s The Night Circus. In my 40s it might just be The Binding - unless something comes along in the next 9 years to trump it, which I can hope for (who doesn’t want that experience again?!) but suspect is unlikely. Now, I know that love for a book on this level is (almost) as much about that unique alchemy between reader and writer, as it is the quality of the book itself. But that book must also be of the very highest quality. And this one most certainly is.The story gripped me from the first & held me ‘till the end. The historical setting is ambiguous, you never know where or when you are, and I loved that. It was beautifully, subtly done. The slightly sci-fi angle (that people could have their memories taken away & bound into books) was superbly believable. I won't bother with plot summaries, since you can get all that from blurbs, instead I want to talk about the writing, which was so lyrical, so original, so vivid, so striking that I could barely put down my pencil from underlining! (Another reason I buy multiple copies of beloved books). I'll next be buying The Binding as an audiobook, so I can luxuriate in the glorious language in another medium. What elevated this book above many others was just how vivid the storytelling was. Indeed, at one point, I had to put it down & step away for an hour because the horror of a particular scene left me shaking. However, I still read this book's 400+ pages in 2 days - no small feat with two little kids! I didn't get much sleep last weekend 😉 The Binding horrified me, with the most chilling depictions of rape I've ever read, along with abuses of power, & bewitched me, the love story is exquisitely rendered, in equal measure. I will say - SPOILER ALERT - that I was relieved & delighted it had a happy ending. And what an ending! Oh! I'll be returning to The Binding again & again & again...
3587902295	Czasami sięgając po jakąś książkę mamy przeczucie, że zostanie ona w naszym sercu na dłużej. Ja miałam tak z „Księgami zapomnianych żyć”. To książka, która zachwyciła mnie nie tylko oryginalną fabułą, ale także niemalże poetyckim językiem oraz wspaniałą konstrukcją. Jest to nieoczywista, zaskakująca powieść o książkach, miłości i sile wspomnień. Każda strona tej książki jest małym arcydziełem, w którym zakochiwałam się coraz bardziej wraz z poznawaniem kolejnych rozdziałów. Wszyscy bohaterowie są genialnie wykreowani! Są złożeni, mają swoje osobne historie. Emmetowi kibicowałam od początku i do samego końca jego losy miały dla mnie ogromne zdarzenie. Nie spodziewałam się, że będzie to aż tak wciągająca i poruszająca powieść. Nie zliczę ile razy miałam łzy w oczach. Co więcej nadal nie mogę wyjsć z podziwu jeśli chodzi o pomysł na przedstawienie całej historii. Dodatkowym i ogromnych plusem jest klimat! Dawno nie czytałam tak nastrojowej książki. Jeśli chodzi o zakończenie, no cóż, nie mogłam sobie wymarzyć lepszego. Po prostu fantastyczne! Jeśli macie ochotę na coś, co porwie was od pierwszych stron, zaangażuje, a przy tym jest niepowtarzalne i dostarczy wam wielu emocji to sięgnijcie po „Księgi zapomnianych żyć”. Ja dopisuje je do listy moich ulubionych książek.
2899657491	Precioso, absolutamente precioso.Me he prometido actualizar Goodreads con los libros que he ido leyendo estos meses (a ver si lo consigo) y aunque todavía falta para terminar el año y quiero leer aún bastantes libros, esta novela sin duda es una de las mejores que he leído en este 2019. El argumento es parecido a la película ¡Olvídate de mí! pero está ambientada a principios del siglo XIX en Inglaterra y con libros, muchos libros, y un toque de magia. Es una delicia.La estructura de la novela es peculiar y los primeros capítulos requieren de un pequeño esfuerzo, al menos así ha sido en mi caso, porque tienes la sensación de estar tan perdido como Emmet, el protagonista, algo que sin duda la autora hace adrede. Pero a medida que vas avanzando, e igual que Emmet vas descubriendo secretos, la lectura se vuelve más ágil. Emmet es en apariencia un pastor, un granjero, pero siente dentro de él que no encaja en su vida y tanto sus padres como su hermana lo tratan como si hubiera hecho algo malo. La situación es tensa, extraña, y él acaba dejando la granja para convertirse en aprendiz de "encuadernador" con una especie de bruja (es difícil de contar sin destripar ninguna sorpresa). A medida que Emmet aprende ese oficio se va sintiendo mejor en su piel y cuando visita la ciudad y conoce a Lucian la trama se complica y las piezas empiezan a encajar. Es una novela con toques mágicos que mezcla una época histórica real con una preciosa historia de amor.
2689018199	I picked this book up at the airport on Friday. It was lying by itself and I was drawn to the beautiful binding. The sheer beauty of it and the promising blurb made me pick it up. It seemed to hold the promise of magic.I didn't really find magic. I found a broken boy, Emmet, who is being sent of to become apprentice to a binder. That means that he is to bind people's memories into books, making them forget terrible things they did or were exposed to. Not that he knows this. He doesn't know much aside from books being dangerous.I found a setting of farming and rural livelihood, something like Britain in the 18th or 19th centuries. The fastest means of transport is with horses. The setting is quaint and fairly idyllic. There is of course a reason that Emmet is broken. That reason is bound in a book and when that book burns, Emmet remembers and everything changes. The middle part is a love story in an unusual and unexpected triangle that would surely disturb sensitive and conservative readers. The story is beautifully written and the theme of love and loss - how much of yourself do you lose, if you keep wiping your memories - quite endearing and thought provoking. If I wiped out some of the things that I am ashamed of, would I be a lesser person for it? There are lessons in pain and shame.Definitely recommended!
2685923002	Im so glad i love The Binding story as much as i love the cover!! this was a total cover buy book and dive into this knowing nothing about this book and basically just expected nothing tooThis book is kinda a mixed between Historical Magical Realism and Romance set in Victorian era and i love it The Story divided into 3 Parts.. Part 1 about the Magic system where people can bind their memory (mostly memory they dont want to remember) onto a book!, this part is slow and so eerie it took quite a while for me to really engage to the story, Part 2 about a certain memory that lost from the protagonist (Emmett) and more like a slow burn romance story and its an LQBTQ romance and its the cutest my heart ache, Part 3 told from another perspective, which i shouldnt tell cause it will be huge spoilerOverall its a unique lovely book! one thing that im not quite a fan is the writing style, it was so describeable sometimes, i mean i dont want to know how many times a day they drink their tea.. plus i still have few questions left unanswered Trigger warning: sexual content, suicide and animal killing
2758423079	The Binding is book focussed around Books. In this world, memories that people can't or don’t want to live with are bound into books, and sealed away from that person as long as the book exists. Emmett is a binder's apprentice, and the Binding follows his story (at least for the first two parts of the book). The writing was quite engrossing, and the characters were engaging, but the world-building left a bit to be desired, with tons left unanswered. The world seemed so interesting, I wish we'd gotten to explore more of it! I feel like the second and third parts of the books sacrificed world-building for the sake of the characters.. The stuggle of capitalisation of book-binding, leading to its corruption, was particularly fascinating to me!
4900119863	Ciekawy zamysł na fabułę, spodziewałam się czegoś totalnie innego! Niestety chwilami byłam znużona, jednak ostatecznie książka nadrobiła klimatem 💅🏻
3128415513	Emmett Farmer is a young man who lives on a farm with his father, mother and sister. He fulfils his daily chores across the land with difficulty. He is ill. His body is slow and he has frequent black outs. One day, called by his father and mother, Emmett discovers he is to be sent to live with a local old lady, Seredith. Rumour has it she is a witch. He is to learn the trade of a binder, a craft that can bound a memory between the pages of a book. Memory’s that people no longer wish to remember, filled with pain and regret. However Emmett does not know this as growing up books were forbidden. Leaving him far more confused that his father wishes him to take the role. Arriving at Seredith’s house he begins to learn how to bind. She is a slow and cautious teacher, giving him basic skills whilst keeping books and bindings locked out of sight. The method and visitors hidden. Emmett continues with his daily duties, the silence and loneliness eating him away. Until the day he stumbles across Lucian Darnay and a book with his name on it...The binding is so beautifully written that I felt everything. Sad, lost, disgusted, which swiftly turns into romance, mystery and longing. It is truly enchanting. 5 stars from me. ✨
3678775464	Amazing concept - execution not so much. This book was 438 pages long. It could have been written in half that. Filled with dull details that kept me shouting “GET TO THE POINT!”Incredibly predictable, and a rushed ending which might as well have ended as “and it was all a dream”2.5 stars
6068897965	🗝️ ── ᝰ .ᐟ read.i'm in tears right now. rtc.🗝️ ── ᝰ .ᐟ pre-readnow i'm moving to this beauty that has been sitting for a while on my tbr. i'm excited!
2667589318	I was intrigued by the idea of this book. I enjoy a well written fantasy read. The idea that a binder could take away a person's painful memories and put them into a book was novel to me.Certainly the opening chapter appealed and was powerful. We have Emmett, a boy working on his family's farm, who is ill. He is to be apprenticed to an ageing binder against his will. Binders are seen by many as akin to witches and to be avoided and feared.The book is in three parts. The first part follows Emmett's story in the present time. The second part looks at a time in the recent past again through Emmett's eyes. The third part returns to the present time but looks at the story unfolding through another person's eyes.The first part of this book I simply loved. After reading the first chapter I was sure I would enjoy the book. The writing was very good indeed and highly evocative. It took hold, gripped me and dragged me in. Underlying the narrative is a feeling that there are strange and maybe frightening things to be seen in the future but, like Emmett we have little control of our destinies. I found it increasingly hard to put down.I did enjoy reading the second part. If anything the writing became even more powerful though in a different direction. I found it a little long maybe. I guess the third part was inevitable and possibly less surprising than the earlier parts of the book. I was not expecting the direction the book took from the blurb. It is a hard book to review without giving things away though.Whilst this is both fantasy and historical in some ways it is really about love and relationships. I really did feel that the writing caught the relationship between Darnay and Emmett exceptionally well. It resonated deeply with me. I think those who are simply seeking a fantasy read may be less pleased with this story. The whole idea of "binding" is key to this story but not the "magic" of doing it. The importance - even pain - of our memories underpins this. It may not have been what I was expecting but I really enjoyed reading it. 4.5/5 for me.Note - I received a digital copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for a fair reviewhttp://viewson.org.uk/fantasy/the-bin...
4033846803	Can I just start by saying that Carl Prekopp can read me bedtime stories for life? I LOVE listening to his voice. Carl Prekopp is voice bae.... I possibly even went so far as to Google if he was married... Carl, if you read this, I'm single and American but I'm down to live in Europe.... Ok, where were we?I won this book awhile ago and have been wanting to read it, but life kept happening. When I saw the audio available I had to jump on it, and then I went back and forth with the audio and the physical book to get through it. I can't lie; Carl's voice made this book better. However, don't fear; Bridget Collins did a great job with a speculative idea: Books are dangerous things in Collins's alternate universe, a place vaguely reminiscent of 19th-century England. It's a world in which people visit book binders to rid themselves of painful or treacherous memories. Once their stories have been told and are bound between the pages of a book, the slate is wiped clean, and their memories lose the power to hurt or haunt them.The book is broken up into three main sections: The first is all about the Binding, and I was fascinated and totally here for it. I wanted more, and it was getting dark.The second part is about what made MC Emmett end up getting a Binding in the first place. I ABHOR his family. I know there are families like this, and you should all be ashamed of yourselves. This section leads back up to the present time, where he ran into Lucien while he was doing a binding.The third part is told in the POV of Lucien... While I get the reasoning behind this, it was by far the weakest part of the book. There were a lot of mostly shocker scenes, and the entire tone changed. It would have been better to use Lucien glimpses but still have Emmett as the narrative voice since he did a great job for the other parts of the book. Unfortunately, this section makes the book lose a star for me. Overall, though, I really enjoyed this one. 4 Stars from me; definitely worth the read.
2700650755	*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com*www.facebook.com/onewomansbbr**3.5 stars**The Binding by Bridget Collins. (2019).Emmett is working on his family's farm when a letter comes summoning him to be an apprentice for a bookbinder; bookbinders evoke fear, superstition and prejudice. He will learn to handcraft beautiful volumes with something unique inside - a memory extracted from people who wish to forget something and never remember it. But one day, Emmett discovers a book with his name on it...An intriguing story, this book was not what I expected. The synopsis led me to believe this was a fantasy book which it does have fantasy elements but is definitely better classified overall as a love story. I think I would have rated it higher if there was more fantasy included to be honest, as I found the binding process fascinating. I would have liked the concept behind people willingly being bound for various reasons, and the history behind bindings, to have been explored more. I will warn readers that although it is written beautifully, it is pretty slow going (certain parts are extremely slow!) and at 438 pages is fairly long. The first third begins with Emmett's point of view as he is taken on as a bookbinder's apprentice, the second section explains the events leading up to the first part, and then the third section is Lucian's point of view after the events of the first part. This is the author's first adult novel after writing numerous young adult books.Overall I'd say this is a love story with a fantasy twist in relation to the binding and readers will either be drawn into it or just find it too slow.
3158469248	★★★★★ | I wasn't ready for how much this fucked me up but dear god... I was not ready. I picked it up, saw it's a book about books AND it's gay and thought 'cool!' but it's also about the rape culture, consent, using abuse victims' stories for cheap entertainment and so much more. All that with a tender complex gay love story waved in. blog | insta | twitter | booksirens | duolingo | pinterest
3227983495	El encuadernador era una novela de la que esperaba mucho más: cuenta con una premisa muy buena, pero no se desarrolla lo suficiente y, finalmente, acaba resultado previsible. Reseña completa: http://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com/202...
3271935844	** spoiler alert ** If you enjoyed that 2001 blockbuster Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ... then maybe consider watching that again, it's ever so good. What's not good, however, is this book. Its plot is literally exactly the same except, somehow, shittier. Way shittier. And also includes a very brutal dog murder on page 286. And that's not even the half of it.Welcome to: This Book Was Not For Me and Now You Have to Hear About It!Emmett Farmer is ... a farmer. Yes, that just about sums up the amount of creativity this author put into the character, for Emmett Farmer the farmer is duller than a lump of mud. He's the type of guy who, as a friend of mine brilliantly quipped, is utterly flummoxed by the world he lives in, every day of his life. He didn't start off well in my eyes, having fainted twice in the same chapter. And as the story progressed, so did his tendency to do a really fun thing where half of his dialogue literally involves just ... stating the obvious.“You can’t set fire to the house while she’s in it. That’s murder.”The boy would not even emote. And when he finally did start, it felt so very forced - and the author seemed to want to refuse to focus on his feelings, but would settle with describing in detail the reactions in his body. And she did this all the time, it was weird."At first it was an involuntary as being sick: great paroxysms like retching, each spasm driven by an unpitying reflex that made me gasp and sob for air. But slowly the urgency eased, and I had the time to catch a lungful of air between sobs; and then at last I wiped the wetness and snot off my face, and opened my eyes. The sense of loss was still sharp enough to make the tears rise again, but I blinked them away and this time I managed to master my breath."Three very long lines and I still have no idea what this guy is actually feeling. Other than sad.You may be wondering, at this point in the review, what the hell the plot of this novel is and, honestly SAME. The premise was actually very intriguing: Emmett is chosen to become a Binder's apprentice, someone who creates books - special books - which are considered immoral by all. Naturally, there is an unhealthy amount of "let's not tell the protagonist what these books are, even though he is literally learning to make them right now, he still mustn't know until the halfway point of this novel". So it was wonderful and not at all annoying as hell to watch Emmett blunder around, stating the obvious yet still missing it at the same time. Another spoiler for you: these books contain people's memories.So at this point, the only thing keeping me going was the promise of a good reveal, at this point. The MC infuriated me, the setup was cringe, the world-building was non-existent (the synopsis calls it "a place vaguely reminiscent of 19th-century England" - see, even the synopsis doesn't know!) and the only thing that did not annoy me was the perfectly adequate style of prose, which was very easy to slip into. I had learned from the synopsis that the twist in this story is that Emmett one day discovers a book that has his name on it and, yes, I wanted to see what all that was about. I had a theory that his entire personality would come flooding back to him if he opened the book, and he would remember his exciting former escapades as a Highwayman, and the reason he had chosen to hide his memories in a book was to outrun the law! Or, you know, something groovy like that.Can you see where I'm going with this?It becomes clear, after 100+ pages of preamble and nothing more, that actually what he had been forced to forget was ... his love affair with a man.Now. Let's unpack this.Seems like I stumbled upon a Romance novel disguised as a mystery pseudo-fantasy. Bit rude, considering I never sign up to read Romance, but since this book wasn't marketed as one, I'm not going to review it as one. Who knows, to some it may be a very fulfilling love story. Me, I wanted a plot. Spoiler alert: there was none - all that followed was the a highly toxic relationship between two young men and a fight to remember each other. Why were they fighting to remember each other? I shall tell you.Turns out, in whatever world this story takes place ("a place vaguely reminiscent of bla bla bla") homosexuality is awful, and all that jazz. That's right, when author Bridget Collins was faced with the prospect of, you know, building her world, she sat down and thought "well, there'll be an inkling of magic that I'll never bother to really explain, and I will rely on deeply ingrained prejudices in our world to help move my little love story along."Do we get any sort of explanation as to why two men loving each other is so wrong? Do we get any form of social commentary that focuses on dismantling this terrible relief? Does the story have a satisfying conclusion wherein the protagonist confronts the homophobes and, well, does something?I know you can see where I'm going with this.What we do get is a nice little passage that implies sexuality is a choice and being gay is the worst thing you could ever dread to be."Whatever I did, I chose to get rid of it. I chose. All the things my father does - it must be worse than that, worse than anything I can imagine ... So don't you dare tell me that I should want it back."Yes, this character (the lover, Lucian) forgot about his love affair and claims that whatever he forgot must be worse than the shit his father pulls, which at the moment we know is: woohoo - rape!Do we get a bit of commentary about internalised homophobia?? Do we get a plot that involves addressing inner trauma, confronting the bigoted pillars of this 'world', and emerging victorious? Nooooooooooooo!Then why. the fuck. would you put. a line like that. in your story?What was the point of the whole thing?! What is this story attempting to achieve? What do these characters actually do apart from dance around their very gay feelings for each other? Well, they act like proper dicks for the entire 400+ pages and then can't be bothered to stop rapes and murders and then aww in the end they do love each other.This story is nothing more than a thinly veiled Paranormal Romance. Except that Paranormal writers put far more effort into their world-building. And LGBTQIA+ creators are far more responsible with their representation. Come on Collins, I appreciate that you wanted to throw a little diversity into the mainstream, but this is irresponsible and damaging! You lure absolutely anyone to your story, which is supposed to just be some sort of magical mystery, and you ambush us all with a very tragic gay love story in a world full of homophobes - which no one signed up for. And I'm not even going to mention the rest of the disturbing content which, in 2020, have we not all agreed to do trigger warnings for??In short: this book can 100% do one.I don't do zero-star reviews as I save those for the books I DNF (a.k.a not finished, not rated). So here's one obligatory star for you, Collins. Maybe you can spend it on a sensitivity reader.
4659529205	Having been a bookbinder apprentice a long time ago I would have liked to think that I might have had an affinity of some kind with this fantasy, it was nice to read of a few tools and terms from my past, it had a fairly good plot and the idea that us binders could assist in letting others not have to remember their troubles by just binding them away seemed a great idea. The reality is that this is not that well written for this reviewer and far too long to the point of being laborious to read. There was one binding after about 200 pages, and that was hardly riveting. There are two major characters in what is basically a gay romance turned into a fantasy novel. Split into three parts, the first part told in the first person by protagonist one, the second a third person narrative and the final as a first person by protagonist two, I was very disappointed that the writing never gave me the feeling that the three parts were anything other than the same person. As to sentence structure, it was very weak. “I’m too cold to care. I huddle in the corner while he leads the horses to the stalls. He cracks the ice in the bucket. My brain has frozen. I can’t even think.” and on and on it seemed. It felt that I was reading a high school student with a great idea, but without the experience to put the sentences into anything other than a few short words. I was not expecting this to be literary genius by any stretch and expected nothing more than entertainment, but it just felt all too YA for my tastes. Sadly, it hardly touches the wonder that was Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell if the author was aiming for a Dickens style fantasy. Not for me, I suppose.
2677882428	Right. This book. Oh my god. Can I just note it has taken me an entire month to drag myself through these pages. I was completely sucked in from the aesthetic and the first part of the story (the book is divided into three parts). It was sooooo magical and interesting and I wanted to know more about this world where books were forbidden and the act of reading anyone's book was frowned upon. Around 200 pages in, after you've dedicated a good amount of time to getting this far in, the plot completely changes and becomes about a teenage love triangle romance... which is not mentioned anywhere in the synopsis or before you purchase it. This is claimed to be Collins' first adult novel, but the only adult parts are when rape, sex and death are mentioned, apart from this it feels YA throughout. Lastly, the third part changes into a first-person present tense account of a different character's perspective, which I wasn't a huge fan of and this person really isn't my favourite character from part one onwards. I just feel that this book has been marketed smartly and buyers have definitely judged this book by its beautiful cover. It's not all bad though, I did manage to complete the book. Collins' style of writing and use of vocabulary is exemplary, and I really did enjoy this, and the scene was set quite well throughout. In my mind I really felt like it was in a Victorian era with houses with thatched roofs and cobbled paths, olden currency and trading, and servants.
3176921109	Me ha durado apenas unos días, no me esperaba que me gustara tanto. Seguí el consejo de adentrarme entre sus páginas sin saber nada de nada, y ha sido la mejor decisión porque la intriga y los secretos me han enganchado muchísimo. El principio es algo lento pero no abarca muchas hojas, ya desde un primer momento nos adentra en este mundo de época, pero con un ligero toque de magia que lo hace muy especial. El libro está dividido en tres partes bien diferenciadas y todas ellas me gustaron mucho. Además el romance se cuece a fuego lento de forma bonita y única. Sin duda de mis mejores lecturas de este y se va directo a mi lista de favoritos.
3690052783	Na wstępie muszę zaznaczyć, że książka jest czymś zupełnie innym niż mogłabym się tego spodziewać. Nie jest to fantastyka, a romans (zresztą bardzo dobry) z wątkiem fantastycznym. Mimo tego oraz różnych sprzecznych opinii, "Księgi zapomnianych żyć" niesamowicie mi się podobały. Wydarzenia przeplatają się między sobą w sposób, którego cały sens możemy zrozumieć dopiero na samym zakończeniu. Jest to na pewno wyjątkowa pozycja, napisana w piękny sposób, którą polecam każdemu chcącemu się przenieść w ramy magicznej, lekko gotyckiej historii.
4923395205	2.5-Pensaba que iba a ser una historia de fantasía y, en cambio, es romance. Género que detesto. .I thought it was going to be a fantasy story and instead it's romance. Genre I hate.
5721328444	I love books about books
4361443451	LGBTQ+ téma v knihách? Áno, prosím. Ale iba v prípade, ak je spracovaná takto, ako v tejto knihe. Nenásilne, hoci je hlavnou myšlienkou knihy. Nevtieravo, hoci sa jej venuje väčšina príbehu. Od knihy nečakajte akciu, hoci napätie nechýba najmä v závere.Zamilovali ste sa niekde do príbehu, ktorý bol tak krásne krutý, až z toho bolelo srdce? Táto kniha vás vtiahne do viktoriánskeho Anglicka (aspoň dúfam, že som to zaradila správne), kde je teibwh rozdelený na tri časti. Každá časť je jedinečná svojim spôsobom a má svoje čaro. V prvej časti nám Emmett rozpráva o svojej súčasnosti, kedy sa z neho stáva Knihviazač. Následne sa taktiež Emmettovými očami pozrieme o rok späť a napokon si zvyšok príbehu vychutnáme z pohľadu Luciana. Dokopy je to také dokonalé, že mi to lámalo srdce a prvýkrát v živote sa mi stalo, že som túžila po tom, aby knihy skončili v plameňoch.Viete si predstaviť, že by ste sa vzdali nejakej spomienky? Akejkoľvek? Navždy? Že by ste zviazali najhorší zážitok v živote do knihy a už navždy ho vymazali zo svojho života?Ale čo ak by vás niekto obral o niečo krásne? Dokázali by ste sa niečoho z toho vzdať?No pravdou ostáva, že všetko, čo sa nám prihodilo, nás utvára, formuje našu osobnosť už od narodenia. Preto je ťažké rozhodnúť, či nejakú časť svojho života vymazať alebo nie. Čo ak by to bolo napokon niečo, čo bolo také podstatné, že nám to ovplyvnilo celý život a my sme sa toho vzdali?Za knihu ďakujem preskoly.sk, pretože som si nemohla vybrať lepšie
3999227397	cóż więc myślę? absolutnie uwielbiam ten tytuł i jestem - być może - głęboko zdruzgotana. pokrótce o minusach; język mnie nie zachwycił, lecz jestem molem, który w pierwszej kolejności docenia zabawę literą, więc dla wielu nie powinna to być przeszkoda ku sięgnięciu po wspomniane “księgi”. jestem też sceptycznie nastawiona na motyw kompletnego zapomnienia, a pomimo to książka mnie pochłonęła. podobał mi się niezwykle oryginalny pomysł na fabułę, zamysł wszystkich trzech części ułożony został tak, aby pokochać głównych bohaterów od pierwszego już szelestu kartek, a następnie odczuć wszelkie emocje i cały ból straty i aż do ostatnich stron siedzieć jak na szpilkach. podobało mi się leniwie rozkwitające uczucie między lucianem a emmetem, wokół którego wszystko się toczyło. niemal pięćset stron, a ja nie byłam znużona na żadnej z nich, fabuła bowiem truchtała wartko, ale nie pędziła zbędnie. warta wspomnienia jest również druga perspektywa, którą otrzymujemy po drugiej części i ten drobiażdżek nad wyraz mnie ucieszył. a jako, iż fatalna jestem w słowie zakończenia, rzucę tylko, abyście dali tej książce szansę, bo a nóż przypadnie wam do gustu
2443298851	The imagery and language in this one is visually stunning. The tale was an unexpected delight. A book about the reading of books being a disreputable and down right evil occupation should not be so much fun. Hell I even liked the romance for a change.Recommended for lovers of Speculative Historical Fiction.
4504965000	“Si matáis con fuego, bajo el fuego pereceréis. Si nos quemáis por odio, vosotros arderéis. Si hacéis esto, la sangre y las cenizas mancharán vuestra alma. Todo lo que toquéis se marchitará y fenecerá. Os odiaran y acabareís solos. Jamás hallareis el perdón”.Yo cuando leo me gusta meterme en historias que me cautiven, me hagan evadirme y reír. Sin embargo, si la historia va a entristecerme entonces es un no para mí. Fui con este libro a ciegas. La portada era preciosa y las ilustraciones que incluía el libro también. Me lo dio mi prima antes de cenar y de madrugada me lo acabé. Si lo llego a tener más tiempo igual se me atraganta y me provoca bloqueo lector.En cuanto al libro per se, al mismo tiempo me ha gustado y no me ha gustado. Creo que me esperaba otra cosa y me hubiera gustado que la historia se desarrollase de otra manera. Eso sí, me ha faltado más desarrollo de la “magia” que se comenta en la historia. En fin, no es un libro que me haya cambiado la vida, pero ha estado bien. Le subo a la tercera estrella porque la forma de narrar de la autora me ha gustado. “Si desprecias los libros, desprecias a la gente que necesita ayuda y te desprecias a tu mismo, tu trabajo”.
2719896364	This should be great and it does start off interesting but omg wtf... is wrong with the writing it’s like a vomiting of description like the author can’t get enough of sounding clever with description also trying to twist books and binding into a twisted myth with witches also there is a hint of wrongful lust and gahhhh!!! It just doesn’t work I don’t believe in the characters and they feel flat and cold. This feels like a children’s author trying to get into adult writing oh wait.... can’t stand this it’s awful.
2768875721	4.5 stars rounded up. A world where your memories can be bound; masters binding maids’ memories so they can treat them how they want; illegal trade of people’s books (of memories); a world where novels are ‘fake books’; a world ripe for abuse of such a magic; where the impoverished and destitute sell their memories for cash.This really was an interesting and equally horrifying concept to me. This is also a love story and one of rediscovery. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
