3368143612	never have i suffered such whiplash from a story before. the first half (or so) of this is probably worthy of 5 stars, but then it shockingly plummets to like a 3 (possibly even a 2). there is a really wonderful build-up. the students appear to be mysterious, the professor seems to be allusive, the plot feels like its going to be thrilling, and the writing is downright beautiful at times. but then there is a sudden, dramatic shift and the illusion shatters. the students arent mysterious, they just lack characterisation. the professor isnt allusive, she just has no substance. the plot isnt thrilling, its shallow. and the writing loses some of its beauty when it tries to be more than what it is. its a very sad turn of events.so while i was disappointed when i turned the final page, i cant get over how great the first part of the story is. guess i will have to split the difference and give this a 3.5 rating.↠ 3.5 stars
2902762004	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |This is the type of non-literary book that has literary aspirations...however, its laboured attempts to imbue its story and characters with a certain dose of moral ambiguity or depth ultimately fall flat. In spite of its intriguing first few chapters The Truants soon followed the well-trodden path of similar campus/college novels: we have a main character who has a secret related to her past, she makes a new female friend who is more attractive and charming than she is, she falls for an alluring man who has secrets of his own, and she also finds herself drawn to her professor, who also happens to have secrets of her own. I could have looked past the predictable and lacklustre dynamics around which the story pivots if the writing or the characters had revealed, at any point throughout the course of the novel, some depth or any other spark of vitality. Kate Weinberg's prose was competent enough but as the story is told through an unmemorable main character's point of view, much of it felt dull. The Truants reminded me a lot of The Lessons by Naomi Alderman (not a good thing). A more nuanced or interesting protagonist could have made this into a much more enjoyable novel. Our MC however is the typical forgettable young girl who somehow manages to attract the attention of people who seem a lot more fascinating than her...I write seem as I never quite believed that her guy (that's how interesting he is) and her teacher were as clever or as alluring as our narrator told us. And that's where the problem lies: she tells us that these two are such magnetic people. We are never shown exactly why they have such a powerful effect on her. This sort of introspective narrative can work...but here our MC's examination of this period of her life seemed somewhat artificial.I found this book engaging only when the characters discuss Agatha Christie. The rest is an overdrawn love triangle that is made to be far more tragic and destructive than what it is (dating for a few months when you are a first year uni student...is it as all-consuming as that?). The college aspect of the novel fades in the background, giving way to the usual melodramatic succession of betrayals and shocking secrets. If the characters had been more than thinly drawn clichés then maybe I would have cared for this type of drama. While this novel was slightly better than other clique-focused releases (such as the campus novel Tell Me Everything and the artsy Fake Like Me) I would recommend you skip this one...maybe you could try the very entertaining If We Were Villains or Donna Tartt's seminal The Secret History or even the hugely underrated The House of Stairs.
2843277955	NOW AVAILABLE!!!For some reason, I found myself thinking about the view of the golf course out of the bay windows at Milton View. How I’d stared at it for eighteen years, yearning for a bigger world to live in, thinking I could find it through books, clawing at make-believe in the hope I’d draw blood. Dear God, I thought with a sudden shiver. Was this the “real world” I’d been trying to find? the name-drops to donna tartt and muriel spark are great bait, as though i needed any bait to read a campus novel about obsession with charismatic and unstable figures, betrayal, and tragic seeeecrets. this is not a thriller; it’s a slowly-building character-driven narrative whose dramatic happenings are on a somewhat smaller scale than The Secret History and whose emphasis is more upon the shifting interpersonal dynamics of its characters than on its mystery angle. the set-up is very conventional for a book of this genre: jess is an eighteen-year-old girl with personal and academic ambitions, desperate to escape her banal middle-class hometown of milton view, norfolk, where “everything ugly or interesting was edited out,” and to avoid turning into her quietly unfulfilled parents.For the most part, my parents seemed to me neither noticeably happy nor unhappy, but behaved with each other much as many of my friends’ parents behaved: like two adults without much in common who happened to be thrown together on a long car journey. Drawn-out conversations about logistics, silences filled by the welcome distraction of other voices on the radio, and the recurrent niggle that things would be better if they had taken a slightly different route. beguiled by a book of literary criticism called The Truants by dr. lorna clay, she enrolls in the university of east anglia to study under this woman she so admires, ending up in lorna’s agatha christie seminar,“Murdered by the Campus.” once there, she quickly befriends georgie—a buxom socialite as careless and wealthy as any fitzgerald character, whose excesses in both drugs and alcohol pair well with her equally dramatic emotional excesses. georgie begins dating alec—a hearse-driving south african post-grad journalist whose work frequently puts him in dangerous situations. jess mistrusts him as much as she is intrigued by him, even as she begins dating geology-student nick, and the four become surface-level inseparable, despite all the cracks in the foundation of their friendship. lorna’s teaching style is one that blurs the boundaries between classroom and personal space—a practice which forced her to leave her last position, the details of which are murky and scandalously titillating. lorna sees something in jess’ raw clay, or in her naked adoration of her, that is appealing enough to befriend and mentor her, intensifying jess’ covetous regard. bad things happen, as they must, as jess is led into the selfish irresponsibility of youthful folly, and when everything begins falling apart, lorna shuttles jess away to her italian-island hideaway, where many shattering seeeecrets will come out. this is a coming-of-age story about consequences, pedestal syndrome, and the loss of illusions. jess is the narrator, looking back over these experiences six years later, and as such, it is her story and her insights, even though she is the least interesting character in the book—although nick’s ‘you are what you study’ emotional rock-steadiness is also pretty undramatic. compared to the magnetic personalities of lorna, georgie, and alec, jess is an emotionally immature blank slate; a quiet observer just starting to come into her own; test-driving her emerging self in the shadowy proximity of these larger-than-life personalities upon whom she is pinning her unhealthy fascinations. others see more depth and promise in her than the reader encounters on the page, which might be down to her self-effacement and insecurity in the thrall of more grandiose personalities. her role here is almost voyeuristic in nature, a position made literal by her first encounter with alec—making eye contact with him as he intercourses a woman who is not georgie in the back of his hearse, but continues in figurative echoes throughout—a girl attracted to confident, charismatic people, an outsider yearning to be what they are, watching and admiring, blind to the flaws beneath their shine. weinberg writes about this tender developmental stage beautifully—all the testing of wings, pushing of boundaries, the self-destructive habits of newly felt independence, the vitality of college friendships and the manifestations of love in all its different forms. there are so many great lines here; she captures the pain of heartbreak perfectly—not just the icepick immediacy of one’s own personal heartbreak, but also in a more academic remove, during a lecture about christie’s mysterious eleven-day disappearance after learning of her husband’s infidelity:”The whole country was looking for her. Five hundred police officers and fifteen thousand volunteers. But what she wanted, desperately, was the attention of one person.” Lorna looked at us, her eyes very shiny. “Agatha wasn’t breaking down or seeking revenge. She just wanted him to be thinking about her. All the time, like he used to.”as far as campus novels go, and i’ve read more than a few, this one may be less flashy than many, but it’s a point in its favor that it’s not trying to be a The Secret History reworking. it has a quiet intensity that i found compelling, and it is an excellent, very promising, debut.come to my blog!
2924006850	Dark academia. Multiple mysteries. Untrustworthy cast of characters. This was definitely the book for me.The Truants provides the readers an insight to the heady mind of a nineteen-year-old as she first ventures into the wide world outside of the stifling confines of family life. Our protagonist, Jess, journeys to university and experiences the sweet nectar of partial freedom that awaits her there. But something much more longed for also appears: Lorna Clay. Her idol, her new English professor and her, soon to be, so much more.This was such a fascinating read that brought to mind two other dark academia favourites of mine - The Secret History and If We Were Villains. The way Weinberg introduced both the characters and the course topics covered was far more accessible than the prior two and, so, a more fast-paced and inclusive read was delivered.This was a book filled with obsessive longing, unstable individuals, hedonistic allure, substance abuse, and ostentatious actions. Each individual portrayed a grandiose sense of their own importance but also betrayed a vulnerable underbelly to their characters that was slowly unveiled as the novel continued. There was much to unpack in each of them, and none more so than our reserved eyes into this world.I anticipated a dark read but not how invested I would become in what was exposed as the reader was invited to journey through it. The open-ended conclusion left me seething for more, but also seemed the only apt way to close what had been a multi-faceted read, inconclusive in the best possible way and largely open to individual assimilation, throughout.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Kate Weinberg, and the publisher, Bloomsbury, for this opportunity.
2914539405	Jess Walker is middle class and about to start university. She chose the university due to her obsession with the academic Lorna Clay, whose book "The Truants" is about writers having to push themselves to reach their goals. The Truants is about a clever group of misfits who yearn to break the rules.The concept sounded just right. Young people trying to find themselves in each other. The book is told from Jess's point of view. There is the usual mix of campus stuff going on but some of it was not what I expected. The book is well written. The characters are messy. I did like this book but I also found myself wanting more. I will read more from this author in future.I would like to thank NetGalley, Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (UK & ANZ) and the author Kate Weinberg for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
2819929457	I had been saving this for a sunny day, and I read it on a sunny day, and it was perfect; my memories of it will forever be infused with a sort of glow that could've come from the weather or from the story – perhaps a combination of both. The Truants is another Secret-History-esque campus novel, this one set at the University of East Anglia, where deliberately bland protagonist Jess gets close to a lecturer she idolises and becomes embroiled in a thorny love triangle. (You know the drill, and you probably know from that sentence whether you'll want to read this or not.) It's a formula that rarely fails to engage me, and this is a good treatment of it, following the tried-and-tested beats and adding just enough spikes of excitement to keep you guessing. Reading it in one long, glorious gulp is the best way to go: it's difficult to believe in some of the characters and their behaviour, but for a few engrossing hours I was able to set all that aside and just soak up the fantastic storytelling.I received an advance review copy of The Truants from the publisher through Edelweiss.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
3399790180	I always check to see what Waterstones book of the month selections are and there fiction selection for June teally appealed.The story follows Jess Walker during her first year at university, having enrolled because of her fascination of star professor Lorna Clay.The course that the literacy professor is teaching focuses on the works of Agatha Christie.There's plenty of mentions of Christie's most famous stories and they will get spoiled if you've not read them.Whilst I was hoping for a fun whodunit, this ended up being about the people that Jess meets and how this group are a little more adventurous.I was a little underwhelmed as even though there are some strong standout moments (especially the choice that Jess has to face), it wasn't really what I was expecting by some of the quotes on the blurb.
3229691410	There is a group on Goodreads devoted to discussing books like Donna Tartt’s The Secret History. Some of us are so taken with the species that we have even written our own novels in imitation. Basically the plot unfolds in a school or university setting with a small group of student acolytes forming a cult surrounding a charismatic teacher. In the original it’s Julian, the professor of Greek. The students not only study Greek literature, they live it; in TSH it’s Euripides Bacchae, most appropriate on a drug-fuelled campus. Invariably betrayal and death follow.With The Truants Kate Weinberg gives us a version set in Norwich. As a few years ago I had the pleasure to visit the University of East Anglia, where my brilliant niece Violet Kupersmith was a fellow in creative writing, I was entranced with the setting. The UEA campus is probably the most striking specimen of the British Brutalist school of post-World War II architecture to be found. The jarring ziggurat shaped university buildings are a perfect representation of the clashing relationships and plot twists in this novel. Here the teacher, Lorna Clay, is an expert of Agatha Christie. The narrator, the 18 year-old Jess Walker, adores her and becomes close to three other students, Georgie, a posh-girl druggie, Nate an Indian reading geology, and Alec, a somewhat older South African investigative journalist with tales of covering violent miners’ strikes in his homeland. He owns a hearse which he uses not only for transportation; when Jess first sights him he is having vigorous sex with someone in the back. (Someone very much alive, we should make clear.) Only the first half of the book is set in Norfolk and England. Later Jess goes to join Lorna on her hideaway island off the coast of Sicily. The student friends become sexually involved amongst each other, with the usual consequences of deceit and betrayal, pregnancy, overdoses, and death. We are not surprised to discover some of them weren’t what they appear.I quite enjoyed the first part, but I found the changes in setting and plot rather too abrupt in the second half, especially the South African allusions. As a flight from London to Johannesburg takes nearly twenty hours, it not somewhere you think of jetting off to for a weekend. In the final third a lot of backstory is dumped onto the reader where we find out what was really going on (much we suspected). And we discover there really is a murder mystery in the manner of Agatha Christie (literally). I confess to finding the method much too complicated and unlikely to work in real life.That was my principal disappointment. But a more serious shortcoming was the failure of Lorna to be quite charismatic enough, especially as from a literary point of view Agatha Christie’s oeuvre does not give one very much for the little grey cells to work on. But as a first novel The Truants was impressive and I look forward to Kate Weinberg’s further efforts.
3198968828	I'm too old for this.
3215800920	Characters: shallow and unrealistic. It’s impossible to care about any of them.Pacing: slower than frozen molasses. Dialogue: trite and pretentious.Plot: insipid and horribly executed.Ending: laughable and unbelievable. If it were a good novel, one might care about how stupid the ending is, but since it's so bad, one is not remotely surprised that the ending is commensurately awful.Worst of all, this novel is just boring. It’s supposed to be a thriller. It is the exact opposite.
4073334563	I enjoyed this literary thriller, but I wanted more from that rather unresolved ending.We are pretty sure "whodunnit" but we can't PROVE IT!As the author, through Jess, herself put it: What is it about an unsolved mystery, Lorna had once asked us in class, that captures us so, that makes us lean forward, looking for an answer? Is it just the challenge of cracking it ourselves or do we rather hope that it will never be solved? Because in solving something, in pinning it down, in reducing it to one reality, something of the magic is lost. Don't we all hope, even the fiercest realists among us, that there is another answer that transcends our understanding? A heaven above us, after all. Jessica Walker, the first person narrator, has always felt overlooked - like an outsider - in her large, middle class family. Her relationship with her family is strained: there is a seemingly unbridgeable distance between herself and her parents, siblings and friends back in her home town of Milton View. When she escapes to Norwich College in Norfolk, Jess admits to falling in love with both Lorna and Alec: two loose cannons of unapologetic narcissism. Lorna Clay is her English Lit professor and academic supervisor, and Alec Van Zanten is a Fellow from South Africa who holds a fatal attraction for just about every woman who comes into contact with him. He is the proverbial cunning, good-looking bad boy who denies himself nothing and no one. He really needed killing - except that you kind of enjoyed his company a bit too much! Life was more exciting with him in it, and all the women around him ate their hearts out whether they had his attention or not.Alas, Jessica's observant, analytical brain was no match for Alec's charisma: she was in thrall to Alec's power of seduction just like everyone else -with dreadful consequences. No spoilers here, but after a while you start to guess that Alec has been playing a rowdy game of musical chairs with quite a few women! What a master manipulator! The strange thing is that even after his "women" discover his infidelities, they make excuses for him- his tortured past, his tragic inability to commit, etc. Denial and the Nile... whatever! Been there, done that: turn the page, for heaven's sake. All these intelligent women, brought to their knees by a good-looking, charming bounder!Was there "feminist justice" - as Jess put it - in the end? Was the culprit in this bawdy farce publicly exposed as a fraud and a selfish cad? Did this marauding male finally get his just deserts? The author leaves it up to you to decide. Harking back to the quote above: you, the reader, must determine the guilt or innocence of the alleged perpetrator - and even whether there had been a crime at all!This clever tactic may be the reason that this very well written literary thriller got such mixed reviews. I enjoyed it. The story held my attention, it was suspenseful, and it was a bit of a trip down memory lane: if you play with the good-looking bad boys, you will get burned! I'm rating this one a 4 out of 5 stars because the ending and the summing up left me wondering about Jess: would she finally break free from her fixation on Lorna and Alec and give life (and maybe even love) a chance? And that career choice Jess made: darn right Lorna would have killed her if she knew!
3393639042	The book The Truants is a Christmas gift to Jessica Walker from her uncle and this book changes her life irrevocably. Smitten with the authors work, Jess applies to the University of East Angelia so she can take the courses run by Professor Lorna Clay. These are based on the life and works of Agatha Christie which inspires Jessica and Lorna becomes her muse. Jessica makes friends with Georgie Duncan who is dating South African journalist in exile Alec Van Zanten. All these characters are misfit rule breakers and the unfolding story is of ever changing love triangles in this novel of infatuation and obsession. The story is narrated by Jess which is an interesting choice as she initially observes life rather than partakes but through the other characters she learns to take risks which is almost her undoing. She is probably the most naive of the characters and is therefore more easily duped. At first Alec and Lorna seem likeable but as the truth becomes clear much less so, indeed Lorna seems golden but that gilding tarnishes. Alec’s journalistic stories of South Africa are shocking and demonstrate he can be very brave. I love the Christie discussions and it makes me want to delve into her life more deeply but if you are looking for a Christie style mystery then this isn’t it. There is a mystery element for sure but this is more about the relationships between the protagonists and the intrigue therein. This is a very well written book, it’s very carefully observed and I enjoyed the journey. There are some vivid descriptions, there’s plenty of drama, a lot of heartbreak, some shame and humiliation for some characters and illusory scales that fall from eyes to see the truth beneath the lies. We learn that there are fantastical storytellers and masters of manipulation as the novel progresses. The finale is very clever and ‘Christie-esque’. My only negative is that it becomes a bit drawn out towards the end and hence four stars rather than five. Overall, this is a book that demonstrates the dramatic consequences of recklessly crossing lines, of deceit and lies, of love and obsession and just how deadly that can be. Highly recommended. With thanks to NetGalley and Bloomsbury Press PLC for the ARC.
3181873012	I want to preface my review with I really did enjoy this book. The mood of it. The characters. The ending. All of it as a whole. I also recognize I am in the minority with my enjoyment of it. I also really wanted to review this without even mentioning “The Secret History” but to give a honest review with my genuine thoughts I just can’t. It is almost the cousin to “The Secret History”. Most praise for this book, even on the jacket cover, mention it. To me TSH is off the charts and it’s super hard not to compare. I think if I had not read TSH I would have rated this higher. But it’s hard to have such a similar theme and not compare. There are so many parallels. The dark moody academia style. A professor that is focused on above all others. A small group of students as the primary characters. I won’t go too much into detail because while I do think from afar there are a lot of general similarities there are also a lot of differences within the characters story lines. I don’t typically read spoilers so this had some unexpected events in it that kept me interested. I thought a bit about consequences of actions and what to do when those are too much to bear but you can’t go back.I am curious if anyone else has noticed the abundance of commas. I am for sure not a pro at punctuation. I use way too many commas and most likely not in the correct context and places. Most of the time while reading this the endless commas kept jumping out at me. I found myself rereading sentences and random words and this doesn’t typically happen to me when reading. I understand everyone’s style of writing is unique and that’s what makes so many different styles. It was just noticeable enough to make note of while I was reading. All the Agatha Christie references have me interested in picking up an AC book. Admittedly I have never read one and I would probably feel intimidated at the sheer number to choose from. I do think this is worth reading if you enjoyed TSH or similar books but are also open to similarities and parallels. I think my rating is skewed only because of reading the other first. If this had been first i think I would rate it higher quite honestly. I would also gladly read other pieces of work by this author.
3175289414	I just turned the final page of this novel, closed my Kindle and breathed deeply the sharp night air snaking in from the open window, under and around my blinds. For the past six hours, and for an hour last evening, I had been shrouded in the blanket of oppressive closeness created by this author—an absolute heaviness that enveloped me and pressed down while chapter after chapter reeled out as if behind a gauzy curtain, just slightly out of focus. The effect is at once unsettling and alluring. This magnificent book, Weinberg’s first, is tragically beautiful. The story is one that has been told a thousand times over—the exploration of self that is part and parcel of a first year college student caught in the romance of the experience. Never before, however, has the story been told with such poignant and exquisite language. Weinberg’s prose is absolutely captivating as she unfolds each character, encouraging us to fall in love with each of them even while exposing the tragic flaws that simmer just below the surface.The story is linear, but insights are always hindsight and aspects of the tale are revisited and turned over to reveal hidden intent. It’s an engaging approach, though it does have its limits. The final pages that complete the journey to the conclusion meander and sometimes read like a stream of consciousness. It is here that the reader is shaken and forced to pay close attention, to activate prior knowledge gained in early pages and to keep up with the overactive thought processes of the narrator. As such, this is not a beach read, but rather a deep dive that requires a great deal of concentration to achieve a satisfying payout. This forced focus adds to that feeling of an elephant sitting on your chest as you read—you desperately want him to move so that you can breath again, but in this case, moving the beast means ending the novel. The reader is faced with a dilemma of wanting to emerge from the suffocating tone, where the cruelty of truth lays bare betrayal and deceit, and yet wanting to remain in a drowsy, romantic state, where the wine flows freely and the possibilities are endless; where that fine line between love and lust is obliterated.I hope that this isn’t the last we hear of Weinberg. Her ability to manipulate language so that it, in turn, fully immerses the reader is unparalleled. It’s only January, and I’m sure beyond a shadow of a doubt that this will feature in my top reads of the year. Right now, it’s at number one and has set quite the bar!
3859951677	i was hesitant to read this one because of the mixed reviews, but i actually ended up really enjoying it! i flew through it in about a day because i couldn’t put it down. it was so enthralling and there was this strange sense of foreboding laced throughout the whole thing which i loved, and i just NEEDED to know what happened to everyone. all of the characters were strange and a bit dramatic and sometimes like caricatures of themselves, but like…..in an entertaining way??? the ending left me a little conflicted; on the one hand i expected a bit more, but on the other i liked how the reader is kind of left to draw their own conclusions, largely contrasting to the neat endings of agatha christie’s novels (which is a big theme throughout this book). from reading some of the lower rated reviews, i think a lot of people were disappointed by this because they went into it thinking it’d be like the secret history (which in my humble opinion, can’t be topped) but i had been told beforehand that it was more similar to a ‘ya university campus novel’ type thing, so that probably allowed me to enjoy it more. i could tell that the set up of the novel and some characters had been inspired by the secret history, but i didn’t find the book too similar overall. if anything, the tone and writing reminded me a little of a good girl's guide to murder (perhaps because of the britishness) or maybe even truly devious.
2975814844	Imagine The Secret History was written by an author who wrote contemp fiction novels for middle aged housewives and this is that book. I really really wanted to like this book - I mean she’s in university STUDYING AGATHA CHRISTIE. Hell yes right? Hell fucking no.SPOILERS BELOW:- the “omg” moment of her professor fucking Alec? Yeah, I thought that from day one so hardly a “reveal” or shock - the abortion was the most intense part of this book, there’s no “fade to black” parts of this story it’s there in all its gory glory and detail and that’s hard to read - I liked Alec and I loved he was a psycho manipulator but I felt pretty grossed out by the affair Jess and Alec started and when he whispered “we’ve already broken some of the rules what’s one more” in her ear? Yuck. I don’t know I just don’t find cheating a turn on. - I loved the amount of drugs in this book, finally a campus novel that includes a real perspective on campus drugs All and all though, Jess bored me, Lorna is creepy asf (what professor gets drunk with her students? And we’re all meant to be shocked she sleeps with them.. pfft) and Georgie made my eyes forever roll. Not the best read I’ve ever had.
3815357533	I loved this.It is a book with a love triangle at the heart of it, but an unexpected one. It is a coming of age story where age comes upon the characters in darkly observant ways. A page turner that is also a literary delight, multi faceted in character and plot, it engages both in entertaining and intelligent ways.I fell for Jess, for all the ways life sought to change her and for the edgy, incalculable Georgie, their friendship is utterly compelling even as it is betrayed. Between these two sits, yes, a man, but he becomes ever more irrelevant as the plot moves forward and it is in fact another woman, enigmatic lecturer Lorna, who becomes the pointy end of the aforementioned trio.The Truants is a mystery that sits firmly in the heart of the characters portrayed on the page, an insightful and subtle friendship drama, a set of women seen through a glass darkly. I adored the whole thing, from first page to last it hooked me in and left me wanting more..to follow these characters through the rest of their lives after the final, thought provokingly ambiguous denouement. Very good indeed. I definitely want more from this author.
3052948426	I’m in a bit of a campus novel zone and this one certainly didn’t disappoint. Weinberg delivers everything you want from this kind of novel; there’s just enough academic banter, sex, drugs, moody landscapes, and mystery. What I enjoyed most about The Truants was the bit of extra depth the Agatha Christie angle added. Weinberg doesn’t just write an engagingly plotty novel, she manages to weave into this an interesting exploration of Christie herself and her novels. It’s a novel which is interestingly referential if you like Christie, but stands on its own if you don’t engage at this level. Very clever.
2929336330	The Truants sounded right up my street with a cast of non-conforming rebel students, but I must admit that I was astounded to find this is Weinberg's debut novel as it's such an accomplished, original book. It revolves around main protagonist, Jess, and her current feelings of being the centre of attention when she has only ever blended into crowds seamlessly to become anonymous. Campus novels don't usually work out well for me as I'm not such a big fan but this had everything associated with the subgenre but with more tension and the suspenseful atmosphere Weinberg creates is clearly a rare and raw talent. The intentional ambiguousness of the cast of characters will not float everyone's boat, however, I thought it made the story more mysterious and intriguing for me. Ultimately, The Truants is a coming-of-age novel that follows a group of youngsters as they navigate their way around their worlds. The characterisation is superb, the plot well constructed and the observations of the author are on point. This is a difficult book to categorise as it has elements of literary fiction, romance, young adult and thriller/mystery, but above all, it's a book that charts the growth of a group of university students who are trying to find themselves in a world where everything seems endlessly chaotic. Many thanks to Bloomsbury Publishing for an ARC.
3197955817	Is it possible to read a book and dislike all the characters? If so, I sure did with this book
6522463018	4.0 ⭐️
2952609598	The title refers to a book written by an enigmatic instructor at a university located in East Anglia. It also refers to the characters’ desire to shatter norms as they find their place in the world. The main character and narrator, Jess, learns much about obsession and its ramifications on truth. This is an acceptable campus novel complete with the usual secrets, deceit, and tragedy. The most compelling portions centered on discussions of Agatha Christie, triangles and disappearances.
3080476173	I received this as a Goodreads Giveaway and would like to thank the publisher. Rating: 2.5 stars. The Truants is a book that tries to be a slow-burning thriller but unfortunately only manages to be slow. The book is written well, with engaging and imaginative prose, but the characters and storyline never fully click. The characters – from the flawed protagonist to the enigmatic and flawed teacher prone to behavior inappropriate approaching predatory to the mysterious yet allegedly magnetic (and flawed) love interest – all share a conceited set of privilege (never directly addressed) that makes them so dislikable even after a series of betrayals and misfortunes occur designed to make the characters sympathetic. While ostensibly a campus/university novel, the book quickly takes a hard turn towards love triangles, hero worship, and potential murder. While the storyline itself has a lot of action and suspenseful events, the predictability of the storyline combined with the lack of any real affinity for the characters subdues any real excitement or energy the plot would have had.
2955380127	’This is the moment. Go. Grab it. Now.’I always fall for stories of passion. This, ultimately and at its very core, is one of that. What passion can do, how it can alter your life, tilt the world on its axis, the magnificent wonders it can bring to life and the catastrophes it can inflict on its victims.We meet Jess when she's entering her freshman year of college, seated on her dorm room's bed, writing an overly enthusiastic email to a would-be professor of hers — to professor Lorna whose clever mind Jess fell in love with and who inspired her choice of undergrad school in the first place.Several pages in and after fictional vodka bottles shared, bubbly, infectious laughs heard, interesting conversations held, parties attended, strangers met and runs interrupted... Oh, I was so into it. I was invested and delighted in a way that makes you sit up straight while you read half lying down because something just happened and you can't keep still. You close your book and you open it again and the spark's still there and you're like, ‘oh my god I am loving this so much!' Only, I was like that for most of the book's length. Adding to the story that kept me at the edge of my seat just by throwing me crumbs of clues and my personal wants here and there and full on teasing, I was also (if not primarily? it takes skill at writing itself to come up with a story that good) drawn in by Kate Weinberg's style. Her words were reminiscent of Tana French and Donna Tartt (both I adore!) but they bore a tang of something else... maybe it was the realistic way the dialogue was written? With the swear words where they would have been in real life. No overly many look-it-up-in-the-dictionary words that make your head spin and glance at the cover thinking ‘nah, people don't talk like that but okay, moving on’. I had nothing to add, nothing to move on from and accept in defeat as everything was so vivid, realistic and sincere. Like I could walk into it like a scene of real life.As someone who rarely EVER even as much as sympathizes with main characters I took an instant liking to Jess. It may have had a lot to do with her desire to walk the line between risk and non-risk, her curiosity, her burning for passion. Or, well, her being very shy about it all, too if not most of all. Because who if not me would have written such an email to a professor I looked up to? Scratch that. I wrote one. Several ones, in fact. And who if not me would have madly crushed on someone for months on end like that? Haha. Needless to say I saw myself in Jess and I instantly smiled.I continued to adore her, I cheered her on as she was making bold moves (I would never have done myself) and went after what she wanted. I wanted her to break out of that shell and go. grab. it. Even if it meant mistakes made, trust broken and hearts shattered. Living, after all, happens in between all the plans we so carefully weave. Doesn't it?Other than of passion, it is, you see, a story about love. In 'The Truants' it happens to be both the wonder and the catastrophe, just depending on what your focus is. For me it was as obvious as arresting the white hot sensation creeping at the back of Jess's neck was. Her hidden, known only to her and to the reader tell that the air was sizzling and it was real, beautiful and perfect in that very moment. The one that I myself felt prickling at the back of mine, one that made me devour each and every page of this book with hunger and curiosity and just a little bit of envy, too.I can easily see readers siding with favorites of theirs and despising a character or two, or the whole bunch of them for poor choices, manipulation and sheer idiocy. You can take your pick and there's a character guilty of just that kind of deep, selfish fault. But then again without faults they would be all boring and there would be absolutely no story of self-discovery and longing to tell. We all tell stories that are only half true, we all hide our true feelings or don't talk about them at all, put on facades and soldier on with vices of different endgames helping us with the trek through life. Not that there's always an excuse and it's all perfectly acceptable. No it's not. We all just try our best to be happy. Just like them.The cast of characters, added to the ideal for its purposes setting somewhere very English in England, was what made this book for me (if you haven’t noticed after all that gushing above). There was Jess whom I adored.There was infuriating Georgie who reminded me of Dasha from 'The Bronze Horseman' but at the end of the day turned out to be just madly lost and wanting.There was Nick who was a goddamn angel, the only one of them without flaws, without faults. Nick whom we should all have to wrap us in a blanket when the storm's raging out and he's the shoulder to lean on.There was Lorna, too. The professor with air of mystery, hyped genius full of energizing sparks she sent out to steal your breath away if you were bold enough to dare and try to get close (bless you Jess for being bold).And there was, oh my, my Alec. (l said it once and I'll say it again: what is up with the name ‘Alexander’ in literature and the way it haunts me?!) He was a force, life itself, blazing hot, enticing and terrible. Need I say more? I would have been you, Jess, I get it, girl. I get it so much that it hurts.I read a partial review that said it was a book everyone would find something for themselves in. It was not wrong. The way I interpreted it could vastly differ from the way other readers may choose to see things for what they were to them. It's a skill, a sign of a talented writer doing their work well, that when you finally come up for air, having read it in one, breathless go, you end up feeling exhilarated and eager to discuss all. the. things. And that's not because you will readily find fellow readers with the same post-book ideas and you will just pat your backs and drink words from your mouths as if your own. It's much more likely that you will find discoveries and conclusions polarizing with your own. That right there speaks for intelligence the storywas written with. Last but not least I want to say 'The Truants' was like a bolt of lightning that almost hits that tree on top of a hill and makes the sky lit up. It doesn't hit it but from where you're standing it may as well have and the spectacle is grand. You snap a shot at just the right second. The beauty of nature at its most dangerous, most enhanced and ever so inviting.
2855683920	Thank you to G.P. Putnam’s Sons and Netgalley for the free book!I loved the concept of this book. An impressionable college student enrolls in a literary theory course about Agatha Christie, only to find herself in a murder mystery of her own. My favorite scenes were the ones that took place inside this particularly alluring classroom — it reminded me of my own experience as an English student, and how certain professors can be both strange and fascinating. Overall, I thought the “mystery” element was great, and it kept me guessing until the very end. I wasn’t totally convinced of the chemistry between Jess and Alec (or Georgie and Alec), but what lacked in those relationships was certainly made up for in the complicated (and captivatingly inappropriate) relationship between Jess and her professor, Lorna. This book reminded me a bit of The Secret History by Donna Tartt, but it definitely stands on its own as well (I only make that comparison because I think people who enjoyed the setting and themes of TSH might also like Kate Weinberg’s The Truants). This will certainly be an interesting January 2020 release, and I look forward to discussing it with other reviewers once it does come out!
3077570559	[actual rating: 4 stars] he looked up with a rueful smile. "i have no idea. it makes no sense at all. but it's how you feel when you fall in love with someone a bit magic. like a mortal falling in love with one of the gods. now you have them, now you don't." this was originally described to me as a The Secret History-inspired, dark academia thriller, but i wouldn't really call it a "thriller" – it's more of a new adult/coming-of-age dark academia novel, really. what i liked: the captivating and suspenseful atmosphere, the morally ambiguous characters, the Agatha Christie references, the writing style, the ending. the only reason why i'm not giving this five stars is because i was expecting something a bit different, e.g. an actual "mistery" that needed to be solved by the main character(s). overall, The Truants was a great read and a real page-turner, & a very impressive debut. if you like dark academia, check it out!trigger warnings: (view spoiler)[mentions and/or descriptions of: cheating, recreational drug use / drug overdose / addiction, unprotected/unsafe sex, abortion, character deaths, domestic violence / attempted sexual assault, police brutality (hide spoiler)]read for the Booklist Queen's 2020 reading challenge (prompt #36: a debut novel)
3024557905	[8.40/10]This was probably the most romancey Dark Academia book I've read so far. Not in the sense of HEA/HFN romance, but that large elements of the plot were centered around the romantic entanglements of the main cast of characters. The mystery/thriller aspect was based what was happening in these relationships, the catalyst for everything that followed was sex as a destructive thing. And it really worked for me! This is another DA book that has rather low average ratings here on GR and another one that I've liked immensely, so much so that I devoured it in a day. I'm so pleased for me.
4032111916	Well written mystery that does just plods on a little too much.The writing is brilliant, the story clever and the characters believable but just felt like it needed it's pace picking up. That being said I did read it in a day but I think that's because I kept thinking "this is building to something BIG" it didn't 😅Also confusing mix of American and English words that really didn't help me picture the scenes as well as I would have liked (that and the American hearse on the cover) Clever but not brilliant.
6445072942	I'm very sleep deprived, so this review will be written in an insomnia-induced mania. Yay for quality!It's a no from me, but if you liked The Lessons or The Cloisters, with a splash of In My Dreams I Hold A Knife, you're gonna love this.The book's main downfall is that it thinks it's so, so much deeper than it actually is. It thinks it's an intellectual, possibly ~dark academia~ novel just because it's set in a school, yet the entire plot just revolves around soap-opera-level of pointless melodrama of who fancies whom and who is sleeping with whom and who is or isn't being cheated on. It's cheap drama you've read a million times before.The characters being paper thin certainly doesn't help matters; what you see is exactly what you get, there are never any hidden depths here. There's the completely blank and naive MC who's just being strung along the entire time; the Walking Red Flag Edgelord who's sooooo Mysterious and smokes and drives a fucking hearse; the arrogant, and not half as bright and charismatic as we're told she is, professor who's waaaayyyy too involved with her students; and then a couple of non-characters who are supposed to matter but don't (the Golden Retriever Boyfriend and Rich Party Girl)The author really thought she was doing something with Alec and Lorna's characters. Everything they say is treated as the most profound thing about life/ love/ existence/ society (guess which one of them is the 'We live in a society' person. Go on, I'll wait)/ philosophy/ literature ever written, while it's just..... a simple conversation. Very r/Iam14andthisisdeep. Especially Lorna's lectures and/ or opinions on Agatha Christie, which are supposed to be life changing, and what little we see of them they're simple, pedestrian takes that anyone could have instead of a professor and writer who's dedicated their life to her work. Alec and Lorna are supposed to be magnetic and mysterious but they're anything but, from the beginning. I'd be cool with it if that 'fact' was ever questioned by Jess (or the author), considering all the reveals, but she never does, just keeps adoring them to the end because the author was just so in love with her own characters.And then there's the fact that the book becomes an utter mess in the last 30%. The author throws pretty much everything at the wall. (view spoiler)[Alec is dead! ...No, is he? Georgie committed suicide via overdose! ...No, did she? Alec's mum is alive! ...No, she's not! Alec doesn't have a brother, he was describing himself! Jess is pregnant with Alec's child and has an abortion while getting uncomfortably close with Lorna, whose mother is dying and whose father once tried to sexually assault her (there was no point to that being included besides shock value)! Pretty much everything that Alec has ever said has been a lie! Lorna's been cheating on her partner with Alec this entire time! Huge section of a holiday in an Italian island! Suddenly, snake venom is playing a huge role in the story (????)! (hide spoiler)] I could go on, but I'm done with this book and I want to be done with this review.One last thing in the negatives: every time (view spoiler)[cheating on one's partner is excused by cliche bullshit like "Oh, but there was SUCH passion! We couldn't possibly resist! We kept trying but couldn't keep our hands off each other!", I immediately lose interest in those characters, possibly the entire book (it almost always means that those are the author's own views in the matter). You can screech about uncontrollable attraction and lust until you're blue in the face, I'm NEVER going to respect or like or want your characters to get/ stay together after that. I'll actually be actively wishing they break up forever. Cheating is a choice; said uncontrollable attraction doesn't mean that you can't break up with your partner and THEN fuck to your heart's desire. It's not that hard. (hide spoiler)]The book's strongest point (why it gets a 2 instead of 1 star): most of the writing, especially the Italian island section, which was GORGEOUS. The early "we were having so much fun" hazy montages were also really good. It's the shitty plot and terrible characters that fuck up the book.
2973201493	Title - The TruantsAuthor - Kate WeinbergGenre - Coming of Age FictionAgatha Christie has always been one of my most favourite mystery authors and her books have always been my first recommendation to people who are looking for books in the genre.So when I found out the book 'The Truants' is a book where the plot involves Christie's book, I didn't hesitate even once to pick it up and here is my take on the same.The Truants is a story mainly revolving around three people. Jess, Alec (Jess's friends boyfriend) and Lorna. Jess arrives at the university mainly bcoz she is in awe with Lorna and wants to take her classes. Though initially disappointed with the course she was enrolled in (Agatha Christie's course) she makes her way to one of Lorna's favorite student. A twist in tale involving them all puts their life upside down and what happens next forms the rest of the story.While the book was pretty intriguing, you do keep going chapter to chapter wondering what's going to happen next, the book did leave a few loose ends that it had to tie up. The characters were pretty interesting to invest into, but then the book could have been a bit better had the loose ends had been tied. The central characters, Jess and Lorna, had been explored to really good depths but where the book lacked in is how the supporting characters were portrayed. Some of them kept creeping up when the time was pretty convenient.The plot though revolves around Agatha Christie's book since one of the major characters is a professor in the topic, we could hardly relate much to her fiction novels. It felt at times except for certain elements, the book took the liberty of putting in few elements here and there so that it would keep Christie's fans interested.Would I recommend this book? Ofcourse I would as it had been one of those books that I could not put down and had been well written. The only point off-putting were the loose ends which if tied up could have made this book even better.My Ratings - 🌟🌟🌟1/2 out of 5 (3.5 out of 5)Book in Few Words - Could have been Better
3071153264	This is going to sound mean, but this book is not as smart as it thinks it is.
3961526887	*I hate rating books in stars*To all my Dark Academics, this book is for you! It was Dark Academia at its finest! College setting and eagerness for academic achievement, troublesome relationships and characters, mystery, twists, and of course, murder. The whole vibe of the book reminded me a lot of The Secret History and it was one of the reasons why I thought it was so very engaging. But it also had some Agatha Christie aspects, given that she was also a part of the plot, which I thought was so intriguing and fascinating! I must admit, though, that what made me love this book was actually the writing. Kate Weinberg has such a way with words that it blew me away. Her way of describing characters and atmosphere makes you feel like you're really there, watching everything happen right in front of you. I adored how she described feelings, sensations, and all the locations and settings. It was brilliant, almost cinematic, and sometimes quite poetic. I found myself highlighting so much of it just because was I in awe of the way she described everything. Another wonderful thing about this book is how it makes it hard for you to put it down. By the end of every chapter you just want to know more. I was completely hooked and I binged the last 250 pages in one afternoon. That’s how gripping Weinberg's writing is. She bewitches you from start to finish. I don’t have much to say about the plot without spoiling anything, but for those who love good writing, slow burn mysteries, dark academia, The Secret History and Agatha Christie, this book is for you. However, I must say that It’s not a light story. You will find lots of very heavy subjects in it, and if you’re a sensitive person like me, I recommend reading about the trigger warnings before starting it.
6518399192	Synopsis: Jess Walker is a forgettable young woman from a forgettable background in rural England. After reading a novel that makes her think differently about life and storytelling, she becomes obsessively fascinated with the author, who is also a literature professor at a nearby university in Norwich. Jess becomes a student here and falls in with a rebellious and philosophically interesting group: an adventurous and nihilistic journalist, a never-sober aristocratic literature student, and a handsome geology major. As Jess becomes increasingly close with both her friends and her illustrious, allusive professor, her perfect new world intensifies to a breaking point, after which she is left to not only unravel what happened, but unlearn everything she thought she knew. What I loved:The first half of this story is pretty magical. The prose is beautiful and unpredictable, the setting is atmospheric and charged with the energy of beginning university, starting a thrilling new life steeped with secrets, mystery, obsession. I personally cannot tire of the formula: a tight knit group of passionate and unreliable eccentrics, always precariously on the edge of something sinister, in an academic setting. Reading the first half felt like being outside wrapped in a blanket, waiting for a wild storm to roll in.What I didn't love:Unfortunately, the climactic moment that pivots the plot wasn't all that climactic, and afterward, the plot loses its momentum in an attempt to slow down and get serious. The author seems to have taken a lot of inspiration from The Secret History, wanting to create something suspenseful and thrilling but also slow-paced and philosophical. But...the way Tartt was able to achieve something that can appropriately be considered literary fiction while also maintaining the thrill of mystery was lightning in a bottle, and the balance isn't easily replicated. The Truants would have been better served if the author had allowed it to be a good piece of genre fiction with a solid plot and beautiful prose (à la If We Were Villains). None of the climactic points of the story felt punchy because of the protagonist's dry, retrospective storytelling, and by the end of the book the experience has been what I can only describe as an unsatisfying bout of emotional edging.Consensus:Ultimately this was very much worth the read for me, I actually enjoyed it a lot despite my criticism. The plot may have left something to be desired, but this was the first book in quite awhile that kept me captivated and emotionally invested in the characters. Someday the plot will dissolve in my memory, but I'll remember the feeling of being in Lorna's seminars chasing the high of her validation, skipping class to sunbathe by the lake in autumn, bicycling in the rain, drinking wine in a hammock in Italy, for awhile.
3045610936	I don't really know where to start with The Truants by Kate Weinberg cause, emotionally speaking - I LOVED THIS BOOK, but I can't delve deep into this book cause its a character-driven story that I cannot properly explain the plot of. Seriously, I've been trying to articulate my thoughts for months now, and every time I open this review, I end up staring at a blank page till I move on to something else. This book is the perfect example of the idiom 'Still Waters Run Deep' - because, at the outset, it feels like a very quiet domestic mystery (AND IT IS), but at the end, it leaves you with this very nice sense of satisfaction - the kind you get when you read a good book.The protagonist of our story is Jess Walker, an ordinary girl in an ordinary family from an ordinary place, and she lives through the exciting books she reads. Especially one book, The Truants (yes) by Lorna Clay, which she is completely obsessed with - so obsessed that she joins the university where Lorna Clay teaches, just so she could join one of her courses.Enter: Agatha Christie.One of the courses Lorna teaches is "Murdered By The Campus", which is a course dedicated to discussing Agatha Christie's life and works. And we see Lorna through Jess' eyes - the phenomenal woman that she is and the way she entices us with her words.Jess meets a group of people in that class, who are also just as much enticed by Lorna's words and they become a close gang. And the story revolves around Jess and the gang being inseparably close all the while holding in all these secret tensions and desires towards each other - while also revolving around the beguiling world of Lorna Clay.Jess is the passive, silent observer - Jess is every single one of us, the ones who are very used to going with the flow in life - and for once in her life is amongst all these vivid interesting characters, who find her interesting. She lets it get into her head and does some morally grey things and faces some consequences because of it. And I will not tell you more of the plot cause it really is one of those things you need to experience to understand.From the way the plot progresses to the way the ending unravels - The Truants reads like a modern-day Agatha Christie book and is ultimately the perfect tribute to Christie that all fans will love - I know I did!-----------------------------------------------22 Nov 2019: LOVED it! Review to come, I'll update soon!
7079094346	A literary fiction, coming of age, dark academia, murder mystery with forbidden romance with insane plot twists? Say less Story of Jess Walker who is starting a new semester She has always been the",good girl" someone who excels her studies, walk the paved path and follows the rules that are supposed to lead her to the life she has always dreamt of or so she was conditioned to believe. So she was ecstatic c when she finally managed to find a seat in the creative writing course by Prof Lorna whom she admired , looked upto and worshipped all her life. She is everything Jess aspired to be, strong , beautiful and brilliant writer. she finds herself drawn towards people who were complete antithesis to her, who would challenge her as she grapples with her own identity and self worth . Enters Alec , her best friend's enigmatic , charming and ridiculously handsome boyfriend from South Africa qhi si a journalist . As moth to flame she drawn towards him as was enamored by him However the more her life gets intertwined wth the lives of these enigmatic , wild people teh more she finds herself sinks into their dark twisty world of secrets, betrayals, deception an death . Things that made her question everything she once beloved in, things that drove her to the brink of insanity and left her gasping for air. This one absolutely knocked my the socks....10 pgs in and I knew this is going to be one of my favourites of all time..The Times described this book as " As much a coming of age take as a murder mystery" I believe this is apt description . Honestly, This felt like a dark academic murder mystery written by Sally Rooney or Elena Ferrante. Or should I say a literary fiction that is also a murder mystery. Either way it was a ASTOUNDING and BRILLIANTThe writing is absolutely stunning and lyrical wothout being too convulated . The characters are real , too real sometimes, deeply flawed , complex and utterly human. Despite being a murder mystery which is deftly plotted and perfectly executed with a Mind blowing , Jaw dropping , Insane plot twist , the characters are the centre piece , the spot llights the showstoppers of the book. So instead of Whodunnit murder mystery it felt like a "whydunnit" which is truly fascinating , as ot explores why the characters are the way they are. Their dynamic and how they are unraveled by secrets and betrayals. It further explores several important themes athat will leaves reader staring at the ceiling and contemplating their existence like why do people disappear? What does it mean to idolize someone and what happens when the perfect illusion of our idol shatters and how it alters our reality? Why are people drawn towarda the treacherous nad dangerous paths against their best judgement? Of you're looking for a dark academic forbidden love murder mystery with insane plot twist that is character driven , reads ike a lot fic then look no further.
6630833600	*3.25*TW: (view spoiler)[heavy drinking, overdose, abortion (on page), drug use, infidelity, gaslighting, car accident, terminal illness. (hide spoiler)]The Truants was described to me as a dark academia novel, but I think you'll be disappointed if you go into this one thinking that's what you'll find in this novel. The academia part was very short, and while I completely enjoyed the Agatha Christie connection to the story, I still would have liked to see more of it. Also, in general characters in dark academia novels are wretched, flawed and morally grey. Here, they were, but I still at the end of it thinking I had seen too little of them to truly get their motivations.I think this book is a good literary fiction meets mystery novel in its complexity, I had fun reading the last 200 pages in basically the span of 48 hours, but I have to admit I guessed some of the plot twists quite early in the book. Some other things I didn't see coming, and that was good, but in the end this book didn't leave me with a lot, except for the enjoyment I had while reading it. I really would like to underline this is not a bad book, it's quite enjoyable, really, but I don't think it will stick to me for so long.
5111913555	2.75/5 stars
6895795294	A coming of age story with love triangles, dysfunctional family relationships, friendships, lust and obsession. It was only towards the end that I realised it was also a whodunnit! I really enjoyed this book which happened to be “a blind date with a book” gift to me (book wrapped in brown paper when bought so you don’t know what you’re getting).
3368413147	If Sally Rooney and Donna Tartt were to write a novel together, I imagine something akin to The Truants would be the outcome. Filled with similar elements adored (detested) by Rooney and Tartt fans (haters), The Truants is a tale centred on coming of age, complex family dynamics, and webs of deceit. It also features:— brooding main characters with an inflated sense of self-import — a mystery subplot that readers can only wish was not secondary to seedy adultery, which somehow always finds itself centre-fold in these kinds of books— a scrumptious writing style which propels you forward, yet also invites you to re-read certain passages again and againTo be clear, I did not dislike The Truants! I simply just found that the latter half failed to fulfil the promise of the first chunk. I was enthralled from the beginning and found the latter pages lacking the ingenuity of the start. Plus, after also reading the likes of Rooney, Tartt and Dolan over the last year, this story felt somewhat like one I had already consumed. This is a novel I will recommend for some, if only for the writing style which has certainly left an imprint on my mind. However, much like florals for spring, I did not find this read to be groundbreaking.
3125036571	Hmm... I'm not sure about this book. Although I can appreciate the writing and I did enjoy the twist in the story and the way Jess grows as a person over the book, I can't say I truly enjoyed all of this book. For me the second half was much better than the first, in fact I was very close to putting the book down unfinished just before I got to the death. Even so I still can't say I enjoyed this book, in fact I found Jess rather annoying, especially in the first half. And the ending was more of a non-ending in my opinion, unless I missed something?This book also reminded me of Sally Ronney's novels, which I didn't particularly like either - although I think I'm in the minority.
3623338069	The Truants is a slow, atmospheric adult mystery that holds all of the toxic academic vibes. From the get go, I absolutely loved this book when first picking it up and I really adored the writing! Unfortunately as the book progressed, I started losing quite a bit of interest and I found the ending rather predictable and it just fell flat for me.
3395689755	Jess is about to start her first year at university, having felt she never fit in anywhere back home, she's thrilled to befriend the glamorous Georgie. Their friendship blossoms and they are soon inseparable. However, things soon get complicated for Jess, when she starts to develop feelings for Georgie's mysterious and opinionated boyfriend Alec. Jess also becomes infatuated with her new lecturer Lorna. What Jess doesn't know, is that all their lives will intertwine in more ways than one. Who can Jess really trust?So, let's start with the positives. I actually really liked all the characters in here, even more so as they developed throughout the plot. Almost, everyone was morally questionable at some point, which made them feel more real and relatable in a weird sort of way. I also liked how they all seemed to have a dark past or issues but they all gelled really well as a group. Overall, this is an enjoyable read.However, I just feel a little bit disappointed with the ending. I feel like this was trying build suspense throughout, there was loads of mention of Agatha Christie, so I thought we would have some sort of mystery developing. This did hint on it slightly but it never really took off for me. I just felt like this didn't focus on parts that I wanted to know about and everything didn't tie together smoothly.Overall, a decent read for me, it was just not what I expected.
3416740058	Thank you to Netgalley and Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (UK & ANZ) for the arc of The Truants by Kate Weinberg.This follows a girl whom is named Jessica Walker in which gets the book The Truants as a Christmas gift to in which is from her uncle and this book dramatically changes her life.... Seriosuly Smitten with the work of this author Jess ends up deciding and applying to University of East Angelia in which she can take the courses run by a specific Professor Whom is named Lorna Clay.... This is based on the life and works of Agatha Christie herself in which ends up Jessica, she ends up making friends with someone called Georgie Duncan who is dating an South African journalist whom is called Alec Van Zanten. The story is from Jess's POV in which is a very interesting one as she initially observes life rather than partaking... Through the other characters she learns to tin which she should take risks which isn't like her. She is most naive girl going... 5 Stars⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐recommend highly
3034606163	I'm ashamed to admit that I had dismissed this book as yet another The Secret History knock-off. I've read so many books that fall into that category that have disappointed me, mainly due to their lack of originality. 'The Truants' did not disappoint me at all and is very much a novel of its own. The characters all had an originality and depth to them (apart from maybe Nick who I felt could have been fleshed out more.) They were all very believable and read as real people, which made me wish there had been more of them. I think Kate Weinberg is an outstanding writer The story held my interest though there were a couple of cliches that made the story slightly less impactful. But overall an excellent read and the Agatha Christie references were the cherry on top for me.
3624006463	This novel didn't convince me. It starts interesting but you can fast see that the protagonist has less depth than Bella from Twilight. And characters who supposed to be all mysterious and alluring happened to be just ... meh. In a moment I was so distracted that I missed one of them dying and woke up in a funeral scene and it was like ..oh, no ... anyway. That's how emotional this book was for me.But it has a good premise and I a prose is easy to read. Some people may love it, and if not for flaws in characteristics, I would probably enjoy it more.
3500266848	A cross between a Christie book and The Secret History, this book is smart, creepy and interesting - a really good debut. (16+)*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
4028036008	this book is just what happens when you're bisexual. ---------in desperate need of a DA novel since it's been raining all weekend on my old campus and i need to hold on to this atmosphere.autumn is among us!
4770217614	Should have dnf’d it
2813890762	3.5 stars--somewhere between liked and really liked.I wish this book was deeper--it feels like it barely scratched the surface of characters and plot. But I'm a sucker for twisty books set in colleges, and I enjoyed the Agatha Christie parallels (shallow as they were).
3622695770	I liked this! I don’t think it was everything it could have been, but it was just the read I was looking for :)
7809408385	I think that comparing this book to The Secret History on the cover does this book a disservice! Impossible not to compare the two and notice that The Truants is inferior.
3969410016	3/4 stars.
3422074818	3.5 stars. The Truants by Kate Weinberg centers around college student Jess Walker and three friends in East Anglia, England. Jess, anxious to be taught by the popular, if polarizing, Dr. Lorna Clay, seeks adventure, a bit of rule breaking, and to be challenged. Her tight knit group of friends include Georgie (smart, brash, living on the edge), Alec (South African journalist, challenging, magnetic), and Nick (handsome, solid, safe). The four of them travel around the area in Alec's hearse(!) (drinking too much, thinking too much, daring themselves to break rules and laugh in the face of it) and, to Jess, this life is electric, meaningful and all encompassing. Also all encompassing is her adoration of Dr. Lorna Clay, whose class on Agatha Christie has Jess vying for the spot of top student in the eyes of her teacher.This dynamic lasts through the fall but into spring things begin to change, relationships are tested and tragedy strikes. The tragedy will rip apart the friendship and set Jess on a different course and she turns to Lorna to help sort out all that has happened. But Lorna has secrets of her own that reveal a bit of shifting sand in Jess's life.This book is well written. The first half was the strongest (especially the Agatha Christie aspect) but then loses some steam and gets a bit lost in itself. While Jess seeks an extraordinary life full of meaning and purpose, she goes wildly off course with poor judgment and trust in the wrong people. As such, the book sort of travels the same way, trying for something greater than it first set out to be.Overall an enjoyable read and I thoroughly enjoyed Weinberg's writing style and phrasing.
2926144417	Many thanks to Netgalley and Bloomsbury Publishing Plc for an electronic copy of this ARC in exchange for my honest review."People disappear when they most want to be seen" Disappearance is a constant theme throughout this novel, the disappearance of people, of objects of thoughts and feelings. However just as important is the reappearance of these things and the circumstances of that. The novel constantly challenges the statement it makes. Disappearances in this story are often in contrast to people wanting to be seen, or perhaps they are wanting to be seen but not by everyone. I would like to focus on this theme more and explore it in an essay, which I will probably do on my blog but for the purposes of this review what I want to say now is just how much I loved reading this. It was everything I look for in a novel, well written, good characterisation, natural flow of dialogue, mysterious goings on, a focus on relationships and how these change and morph.I am going to be recommending this book to anyone who will listen to me from now on, I am the nominated book picker for October for an online book club I am part of and this is going to be my choice as long as it fits in the guidelines.
3159837657	To any fans of The Secret History and/or If We Were Villains who picked up this book expecting it to be your next fix of dark academia: turn back now.It's a campus novel that barely touches the campus, with a tight-knit friendship that is not tight-knit nor anything close to resembling friendship, that includes a mystery that really isn't a mystery because the stakes of everything are so low and you care so little about the characters that finding out what happens to them stops mattering to you halfway through.Maybe this book has just been marketed wrong, though given how many other reviewers here have compared it favorably to The Secret History, I could be wrong. I don't agree with the comparison though. What made The Secret History work is you believe in what bonds the Classics students together, even if the bonds are toxic. Nothing at all bonds the characters in this book and it inevitably makes for a dull read.
2856536961	Whether you enjoy The Truants or not probably depends on how well you react to familiarity. When I read the proof blurb by Scarlett Thomas that claimed this was like a mashup of Donna Tartt, Agatha Christie, and Liane Moriarty, I wasn’t prepared for how entirely accurate that was: it’s The Secret History set in Norwich with Agatha Christie texts occupying the place that classical Greek culture takes in the former. If you’re keen on genre riffs, and sexily unpredictable men, and the erotics of pedagogy, pick it up. I rather enjoyed it, but I doubt I’ll remember much in a month.
3658088287	The Truants is one of those books that is really quite difficult to explain - both in terms of plot and how good it really is. Character-driven and drenched in darker undertones, I was consumed by a world that felt like hanging delicately on the edge of a cliff, never knowing what felt stable. There is no “one mystery” to solve; you are simply waiting around as many lives and stories interweave to create something much like a disastrous maze, in which no one can really get out of. It’s not the usual kind of book I would pick up. I had no idea what it would be like going into it. But wow, I must say, I was really blown away by the writing. I loved Weinberg’s style, and I don’t often say that about a lot of authors. She had a very unique, simple yet meaningful style and I loved the parts that were written like inner reflections of the mind poured onto a page (those who have read it, you know what I mean - the ending). Surprisingly, I realised during the book that it was also inspired by UEA, since the author studied her masters in creative writing there. This initiated an unexpected wave of nostalgia for me, since I graduated there, also having studied creative writing (but as an undergrad) earlier this year. Whether this had an effect on my connection to the book, I don’t know. But it did feel comfortingly familiar to me in some ways.Overall, I feel quite taken aback by this book. It’s a truly original piece of work and a surprisingly good debut. There are flaws, of course - one of them obviously being the likelihood of a lecturer befriending her students - but at its core it’s a very intriguing read. I will certainly look out for more of Weinberg’s books in the future.
3398404975	I know that this is one of those books that I am really going to struggle to put into words just how good it is.Jess chooses her university on the basis of one its tutors Lorna Clay, author of a book that she was gifted at Christmas The Truants. Jess is not happy with her lot and she cannot wait to escape her mundane life in Milton View where she lives with her parents. When Jess reaches the university she finds out that she has not got a place on Lorna’s course ‘The Devil Has the Best Lines’, she is distressed beyond belief and she writes to Lorna and begs her to reconsider.Her room mate Georgie is on Lorna’s second course ‘Murdered by the Campus’ about Agatha Christie and Lorna offers her a place on this course instead. As a huge fan of Agatha I really enjoyed the inclusion of this in the book and how the author weaves her into the story was really clever.The story draws you in to the bubble that Jess finds herself in with Georgie and Alec who are in a relationship and Jess’s own relationship with Nick. I loved the way the book has a real darkness from the outset. You know that Jess’s obsession with Lorna is not healthy and she spends her life at university wanting what she can not have and in this case it is Alec and when she decides to act on this she puts everything at risk and things take a darker turn.Jess’s actions tip her whole world and her friendships upside down.I loved this book so much and I read it really slowly so that I could savour the writing. The characters and the story totally engrossed me and I found the love triangle element intriguing and knew that was never going to end well.This is one of my favourite reads of the year and I was besotted by it and will be recommending this one far and wide. An amazing book!
5131553709	RF Kuang has ruined me for dark academia forever, but this book also wasn’t it. SUCH a good premise (agatha christie as a complicated feminist, real life murder mystery, obsession with a a female professor) and it had valuable moments (the protagonist’s love interest realization, discussions of grooming, on-page realistic abortion) but truly, it was a book of nothing with no point to be made. The protagonist is unlikeable in a way that doesn’t feel intentional, her naïveté passes into stupidity and you only ever read from her perspective, so it gets tiring really quickly. Georgie really should have been the main character (and would have been, if this were an Agatha Christie novel. come on. rich intelligent socialite battling addiction caught in a deadly love triangle???? it’s RIGHT THERE). anyways. this could have been SO much more, and it just…wasn’t. cw: grooming, coercion, on-page abortion, alcohol abuse
3861161053	** spoiler alert ** Eh... it was okay... Really not here for books where people spend one day together, have sex and then fall madly in love. Like hello? Please get a hold of yourself and a grip on reality. Feel like the pace was slow. Jess did my absolute head in. Lorna was so unlikeable it actually made me feel a bit sick. Alec was borderline creepy. Georgia seemed like a complete stereotype. Nick was literally the only wholesome character going and even he was so completely and stupidly gullible I wanted to smack him round the head.Really wasn't on board with the whole unprotected sex, baby abortion storyline with morning sickness for what could have only just been a fertilised egg. The marketing for this definitely hyped it up, but ultimately it was just a bit of a boring story with hollow characters and a weak plot. It could have been so much better, but it just wasn't. 2.5 at a push, maybe?
4918128733	A page-turner type whodunnit; a campus novel; a coming-of-age tale; a psychological examination; a look at trust, betrayal, love, fidelity, and loss: there are many ways to categorise this book. The story focuses on the narrator, a first-year university student, and the intense tangle of friendships and ‘loverships’ of her first days - following them through that year and culminating at a point some years later.It’s an easy read, mostly satisfying, and with a certain amount of food for thought. However, I found elements of it somewhat opaque and, some, a little implausible. None of which prevent the book from being a good read.
3422917893	Some lovely prose throughout and a nice twist and concept but it failed to come anywhere near to the excellent books it has been compared to. People think it’s helpful comparing someone’s work to Agatha Christie or Donna Tartt, however it sets up an almost impossible expectation that when not met, leaves the reader feeling cheated and dissatisfied. I do not think this is the fault of the book or author however but the marketing. Kate Weinberg writes beautifully and I’d love to read more of her writing, but I want to enjoy her work on its own without the looming impossibility of being close to The Secret History.
3619635423	3.5/5The Truants is an enjoyable, compelling, tightly plotted and thrilling debut novel. Weinberg manages to cleverly subvert tropes of the mystery/dark academia genre by creating a nuanced and unpredictable plot paired with layered, ambiguous and complex characters. The setting is evoked with an assured hand and the reveals are just rightly paced to keep you intrigued till the very end. I listened to this on audio through my library, narrated by Olivia Dowd and I'd highly recommend that route. It adds to the atmosphere and makes for a great listen while going on long evening walks.
3422890595	A really excellent book- it’s gripping and presents a mystery but in a way that makes you care more about the main character figuring herself out then the actual mystery of who she can trust and what happened to Alec. A very impressive story and the references to Agatha Christie are enlightening to both the story itself and the writer they are referencing. Would definitely recommend for its enthralling prose and hypnotic plot.
5964772413	Was going to rate it 5 stars up until about the 50% mark where it just lost its way. The first half was good enough to give it 4 stars, though, because the writing was just beautifully done and engaging.
