1715450586	Over the next year you’re going to see a lot of updates from me about Percy Shelley. Shelley was a great man. He was a visionary. He was a genius. He saw the world, and he understood it. He saw beyond the idiotic structures that man has built; he saw beyond society and people: he saw to the very heart of nature and the romantic imagination, and he embraced it. Percy Shelley was a great man. Percy Shelley is my hero. His poetry is profound. It speaks to me on levels I didn’t think possible. Imagine what he could have done if he lived another ten years. Imagine what art he could have produced. Imagine, imagine….just imagine. Shelley died when he was far too young. His like is rare. The world needs more men like Shelley. What a true pleasure to write my dissertation on such a man.
5084598973	CentosetteThere was that young Percy Bysshe ShelleyWho should have appeared on the tellyWith gold caps on his teethAnd the eyes of a thiefAnd his girl's name tattooed on his belly A sinistra... / A destra....
8549543	T.S. Eliot can say what he wants. Shelley towers over him.
1331725563	He's great, or 'Great,' I guess. Still, like cheesecake, Shelley's a little rich for me. Moreover, I feel like Romanticism created plenty of its own Ozymandiuses with its big ideas and its fierce self-regard.
106271452	The central thematic concerns of Shelley’s poetry are largely the same themes that defined Romanticism, especially among the younger English poets of Shelley’s era: beauty, the passions, nature, political liberty, creativity, and the sanctity of the imagination. What makes Shelley’s treatment of these themes unique is his philosophical relationship to his subject matter—which was better developed and articulated than that of any other Romantic poet with the possible exception of Wordsworth—and his temperament, which was extraordinarily sensitive and responsive even for a Romantic poet, and which possessed an extraordinary capacity for joy, love, and hope. Shelley fervently believed in the possibility of realizing an ideal of human happiness as based on beauty, and his moments of darkness and despair (he had many, particularly in book-length poems such as the monumental Queen Mab) almost always stem from his disappointment at seeing that ideal sacrificed to human weakness.Shelley’s intense feelings about beauty and expression are documented in poems such as “Ode to the West Wind” and “To a Skylark,” in which he invokes metaphors from nature to characterize his relationship to his art. The center of his aesthetic philosophy can be found in his important essay A Defence of Poetry, in which he argues that poetry brings about moral good. Poetry, Shelley argues, exercises and expands the imagination, and the imagination is the source of sympathy, compassion, and love, which rest on the ability to project oneself into the position of another person. No other English poet of the early nineteenth century so emphasized the connection between beauty and goodness, or believed so avidly in the power of art’s sensual pleasures to improve society. Byron’s pose was one of amoral sensuousness, or of controversial rebelliousness; Keats believed in beauty and aesthetics for their own sake. But Shelley was able to believe that poetry makes people and society better; his poetry is suffused with this kind of inspired moral optimism, which he hoped would affect his readers sensuously, spiritually, and morally, all at the same time.In Shelley’s poetry, the figure of the poet (and, to some extent, the figure of Shelley himself) is not simply a talented entertainer or even a perceptive moralist but a grand, tragic, prophetic hero. The poet has a deep, mystic appreciation for nature, as in the poem “To Wordsworth” (1816), and this intense connection with the natural world gives him access to profound cosmic truths, as in “Alastor; or, The Spirit of Solitude” (1816). He has the power—and the duty—to translate these truths, through the use of his imagination, into poetry, but only a kind of poetry that the public can understand. Thus, his poetry becomes a kind of prophecy, and through his words, a poet has the ability to change the world for the better and to bring about political, social, and spiritual change. Shelley’s poet is a near-divine savior, comparable to Prometheus, who stole divine fire and gave it to humans in Greek mythology, and to Christ. Like Prometheus and Christ, figures of the poets in Shelley’s work are often doomed to suffer: because their visionary power isolates them from other men, because they are misunderstood by critics, because they are persecuted by a tyrannical government, or because they are suffocated by conventional religion and middle-class values. In the end, however, the poet triumphs because his art is immortal, outlasting the tyranny of government, religion, and society and living on to inspire new generations.Like many of the romantic poets, especially William Wordsworth, Shelley demonstrates a great reverence for the beauty of nature, and he feels closely connected to nature’s power. In his early poetry, Shelley shares the romantic interest in pantheism—the belief that God, or a divine, unifying spirit, runs through everything in the universe. He refers to this unifying natural force in many poems, describing it as the “spirit of beauty” in “Hymn to Intellectual Beauty” and identifying it with Mont Blanc and the Arve River in “Mont Blanc.” This force is the cause of all human joy, faith, goodness, and pleasure, and it is also the source of poetic inspiration and divine truth. Shelley asserts several times that this force can influence people to change the world for the better. However, Shelley simultaneously recognizes that nature’s power is not wholly positive. Nature destroys as often as it inspires or creates, and it destroys cruelly and indiscriminately. For this reason, Shelley’s delight in nature is mitigated by an awareness of its dark side.Shelley uses nature as his primary source of poetic inspiration. In such poems as “The Mask of Anarchy Written on the Occasion of the Massacre at Manchester” (1819) and “Ode to the West Wind,” Shelley suggests that the natural world holds a sublime power over his imagination. This power seems to come from a stranger, more mystical place than simply his appreciation for nature’s beauty or grandeur. At the same time, although nature has creative power over Shelley because it provides inspiration, he feels that his imagination has creative power over nature. It is the imagination—or our ability to form sensory perceptions—that allows us to describe nature in different, original ways, which help to shape how nature appears and, therefore, how it exists. Thus, the power of the human mind becomes equal to the power of nature, and the experience of beauty in the natural world becomes a kind of collaboration between the perceiver and the perceived. Because Shelley cannot be sure that the sublime powers he senses in nature are only the result of his gifted imagination, he finds it difficult to attribute nature’s power to God: the human role in shaping nature damages Shelley’s ability to believe that nature’s beauty comes solely from a divine source.This sonnet from 1817 is probably Shelley’s most famous and most anthologized poem—which is somewhat strange, considering that it is in many ways an atypical poem for Shelley, and that it touches little upon the most important themes in his oeuvre at large (beauty, expression, love, imagination). Still, “Ozymandias” is a masterful sonnet. Essentially it is devoted to a single metaphor: the shattered, ruined statue in the desert wasteland, with its arrogant, passionate face and monomaniacal inscription (“Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!”). The once-great king’s proud boast has been ironically disproved; Ozymandias’s works have crumbled and disappeared, his civilization is gone, all has been turned to dust by the impersonal, indiscriminate, destructive power of history. The ruined statue is now merely a monument to one man’s hubris, and a powerful statement about the insignificance of human beings to the passage of time. Ozymandias is first and foremost a metaphor for the ephemeral nature of political power, and in that sense the poem is Shelley’s most outstanding political sonnet, trading the specific rage of a poem like “England in 1819” for the crushing impersonal metaphor of the statue. But Ozymandias symbolizes not only political power—the statue can be a metaphor for the pride and hubris of all of humanity, in any of its manifestations. It is significant that all that remains of Ozymandias is a work of art and a group of words; as Shakespeare does in the sonnets, Shelley demonstrates that art and language long outlast the other legacies of power.Of course, it is Shelley’s brilliant poetic rendering of the story, and not the subject of the story itself, which makes the poem so memorable. Framing the sonnet as a story told to the speaker by “a traveller from an antique land” enables Shelley to add another level of obscurity to Ozymandias’s position with regard to the reader—rather than seeing the statue with our own eyes, so to speak, we hear about it from someone who heard about it from someone who has seen it. Thus the ancient king is rendered even less commanding; the distancing of the narrative serves to undermine his power over us just as completely as has the passage of time. Shelley’s description of the statue works to reconstruct, gradually, the figure of the “king of kings”: first we see merely the “shattered visage,” then the face itself, with its “frown / And wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command”; then we are introduced to the figure of the sculptor, and are able to imagine the living man sculpting the living king, whose face wore the expression of the passions now inferable; then we are introduced to the king’s people in the line, “the hand that mocked them and the heart that fed.” The kingdom is now imaginatively complete, and we are introduced to the extraordinary, prideful boast of the king: “Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!” With that, the poet demolishes our imaginary picture of the king, and interposes centuries of ruin between it and us: “ ‘Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’ / Nothing beside remains. Round the decay / Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare, / The lone and level sands stretch far away.”
8549914	Shelley is the best lyricist in poetic history. In my humble opinion anyway. It's a shame that he's overshadowed all the time by his wife, but he is once again slowly being recognised as one of the greater romantic poets..
86646959	Shelley is my favourite poet.He was a true revolutionary.All his works are very endearing and also infuse the "revolutionary" spirit in one's heart.He was really on a cosmic scale.Sublime!
7964270743	lowkey, i am way too stupid to understand poetry...but nevertheless, it was fun to read.. the two poems i did actually comprehend, that is.
1296688915	Before I get going on this review, let me link to the reviews I've already done of Shelley's longer (or more famous) works:"Ozymandias""Alastor" Prometheus Unbound The Cenci "Adonais""The Witch of Atlas"It's been a while since I really gave time to one poet in the way that I used to be able to over summer break. Not only did I complete my Keats study, but I also was able to get in an extensive study of Lord Byron. While I was able to look at some works by other Romantics along the way, I feel like maybe I glossed over some of the less interesting figures. Furthermore, as of late I have been occupied with my first full reading of the Bible as well as a study on Shakespeare. Also, it's my last week of my first semester of college- I'm a busy gal!To get to the point, I decided it would be pleasant to try another Romantic study and take a break from the Scriptures and the Bard. Thus, I have just had a week full of Shelley.... and not Mary this time! My interest in reading Percy Shelley's poem actually began last year when I learned some about him indirectly. Of course, I read Frankenstein in my AP English Lit class, so naturally we had to learn about both Shelleys, although we sort of skimmed over Percy. Being the way I am, I got pretty curious eventually- if Mary's novel turned out to be so excellent, could her husband's poetry be just as phenomenal. Well, now I've got the answer.While Shelley's poems are frequently very beautiful and very intricate, those very elements are often his downfall. The shorter poems of his have generally become very famous for a good reason, such as the brilliant and realistically pessimistic "Ozymandias" or the insightful and political "Sonnet: England in 1819". The list goes on and on; let's face it, this guy had his sonnets down pat. He's just about as close to Keats as I've seen in that category, to be completely frank- that's really saying something, as I believe that that's a hard level to get up to. However, Shelley's poetry and drama seriously suffers from the same elements that make the sonnets fantastic, as I mentioned before. As you may see from my other reviews of Shelley, I use the word "flowery" to describe the way he writes. It's sometimes a bit much, a bit too metaphorical and lofty to really reach the audience. Therefore, the longer works become a bit of a drag to read, sort of a chore to complete. And as much as I love his short works, this makes the experience less enjoyable as a whole. That's why I have not rated him higher than 3 stars.
2571736494	Reading his biography one can't help but pity or despise him.Reading his poetry one can't help but fall in love with him.
2036955332	Ah, Shelley. Rad poet, radder human being.So about two months ago I picked up a biography of the Romantic poets & the marriage of Mary & Percy Shelley, then realized I only knew one poem by Shelley, saw his collected works on Project Gutenberg, and was like, sure this'll be fun!Reading every poem ever written by Percy Shelley has taught me a few things about myself, mainly that while I am very here for the Shelley ~aesthetic~, I am less here for the actual act of reading, especially the long winding epics (outside of Prometheus Unbound which is fantastic). Sonnets though, dang could the main write a sonnet.My plan was to next move on to his #1 boo Lord Byron, but I think I'm going to take a short poetry break instead. Still if anyone finds themselves itching for so melodrama, my personal faves of his collection are the aforementioned 'Prometheus Unbound' & 'Adonaïs', and for the shorter sonnets 'To ----' & 'Ozymandias'.
3897133270	God tier poet, hands down, and up, and around. Percy Bysshe Shelley is the coolest one on the poet's block, I would sell my soul to revive this absolute legend.
71798954	Putting my poery books on the shelf one day at a time.In case you need a poem hit -- this is the end of 'Adonais' and a pretty good way to start or end your day:"The One remains, the many change and pass;Heaven’s light forever shines, Earth’s shadows fly;Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass,Stains the white radiance of Eternity,Until Death tramples it to fragments.—Die,If thou wouldst be with that which thou dost seek!Follow where all is fled!—Rome’s azure sky,Flowers, ruins, statues, music, words, are weakThe glory they transfuse with fitting truth to speak.Why linger, why turn back, why shrink, my Heart?Thy hopes are gone before: from all things hereThey have departed; thou shouldst now depart!A light is passed from the revolving year,And man, and woman; and what still is dearAttracts to crush, repels to make thee wither.The soft sky smiles,—the low wind whispers near:’Tis Adonais calls! oh, hasten thither,No more let Life divide what Death can join together.That Light whose smile kindles the Universe,That Beauty in which all things work and move,That Benediction which the eclipsing CurseOf birth can quench not, that sustaining LoveWhich through the web of being blindly woveBy man and beast and earth and air and sea,Burns bright or dim, as each are mirrors ofThe fire for which all thirst, now beams on me,Consuming the last clouds of cold mortality.The breath whose might I have invoked in songDescends on me; my spirit’s bark is drivenFar from the shore, far from the trembling throngWhose sails were never to the tempest given;The massy earth and sphered skies are riven!I am borne darkly, fearfully, afar;Whilst, burning through the inmost veil of Heaven,The soul of Adonais, like a star,Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are."
1802943	Shelley is the poet who has moved me most greatly over the years. He was a skeptical visionary--a spiritual revolutionary who understood the limitations of human character. His favorite writer was the down-to-earth Montaigne. Shelley's lyrical poetry is among the best in the language, and is the most ravishingly musical I know. Some of his longer poems seem to be a bit less-well-known, though they're some of the most rewarding long poems since Spenser, and necessary for an understanding of Shelley's development, in addition to being thrilling to read. So here are my top ten Shelley works, in roughly chronological order:Alastor, or the Spirit of Solitude- Shelley's early quest-romance is unsettling, and central to Romanticism.The Cenci- Perhaps the only Romantic play that might actually work onstage--a powerful tragedy.Ode to the West Wind- Shelley cries out his prophecy of eternal renewal.Witch of Atlas- A favorite of mine, this Spenserian fantasy is witty, intriguing, breathtakingly beautiful and deliciously ironic.Epipsychidion- Shelley's hymn to free love.Julian and Maddalo- Fascinating fictional dialogue between Shelley and Byron stand-ins.Prometheus Unbound- Shelley's ambitious masterpiece; Yeats believed it to be one the world's great sacred books. Read it and reread it, this is truly incredible. With Blake's epics and Wordsworth's Prelude, this is the summit of Romanticism.Adonais- Shelley's visionary elegy for himself.Hellas- Transcendent, revolutionary drama.Triumph of Life- Shelley's terrible final Dantesque vision, truly devastating and one of his most astounding pieces.
382884142	I'm giving it two stars because I really enjoyed Mary Shelley's annotations. The poems themselves....eh. Some of them were all right. Do yourself a favor and skip "The Revolt of Islam", it long and boring. As a bit of fun trivia, I checked this book out of the library and renewed it continuously for almost 3 years. Nobody else ever put a hold on it.
1161283403	It's Shelley.
7778843855	Percy Bysshe Shelley nacque il 4 agosto del 1792. Un vero e proprio rivoluzionario avanti lettera. Suo padre era un ricco esponente dell'aristocrazia e membro del Parlamento. Aveva messo da parte per suo figlio una grossa fortuna, ma lui non ne volle sapere di studiare e si fece espellere dall'università di Oxford per avere scritto un libello che fece scalpore intitolato "Necessità dell'ateismo".Gli venne offerta la possibilità di ritrarre quello che aveva scritto ma egli rifiuto' e a soli 19 anni se ne scappo' con una ragazza di 16 anni, figlia di un semplice oste. Fu diseredato e da quel punto ebbe iniziò la sua vita avventurosa che, come i romantici dell'epoca, fu tutto un romanzo.Non sembri strano l'accostamento che sto per fare per l'occasione di questo anniversario, ma questa poesia di Shelley mi offre la possibilità di parlare di un aspetto caratteristico della Rete e quindi dei siti sociali: la loro mutabilità. Come quella che, appunto, il giovane poeta Shelley intravede nelle "nuvole".Esse appaiono nel cielo scintillanti di giorno per poi scomparire nella notte. Il tutto avviene improvvisamente, alla stessa maniera in cui appare e scompare la vita umana. Esse sono simili ai suoni, alle melodie di uno strumento, la lira, che emette toni diversi per diverse esperienze.Le nuvole scorrono sullo schermo del cielo, sia che noi siamo svegli o addormentati. Pensieri vaganti e volubili ci accompagnano e interferiscono nella nostra mente, spesso alterando anche la nostra felicità. Esse, nell'apparire e scomparire, ci somigliano, siamo come loro. Mutevoli e sfuggenti.Non pensate, allora, che le nuvole siano come i "post" che appaiono in Rete, che scorrono incessantemente sullo stream di G+, Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest e i tanti altri percorsi comunicativi che troviamo in Rete? Proprio come le "nuvole". Ecco la poesia:We are as clouds that veil the midnight moon;How restlessly they speed, and gleam, and quiver,Streaking the darkness radiantly! —yet soonNight closes round, and they are lost forever:Or like forgotten lyres, whose dissonant stringsGive various response to each varying blast,To whose frail frame no second motion bringsOne mood or modulation like the last.We rest.—A dream has power to poison sleep;We rise.—One wandering thought pollutes the day;We feel, conceive or reason, laugh or weep;Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares away:It is the same!—For, be it joy or sorrow,The path of its departure still is free:Man's yesterday may ne'er be like his morrow;Nought may endure but Mutability.-----MutabilitàNoi siamo come nuvole che velano la luna a mezzanotte;Così irrequiete sfrecciano, sfavillano, fremono,striando l'oscurità radiosamente! - eppure, subitola notte si richiude intorno e le cancella:o come dimenticate lire, le cui corde dissonantidanno, a ogni diverso soffio del vento, una risposta nuova,alla cui fragile struttura nessuna vibrazione nuova apportaun tono o una modulazione simile all'ultimo.Noi riposiamo, e un sogno ha la forza di avvelenarci il sonno.Ci alziamo, e un pensiero errante può inquinare il giorno.Sentiamo, concepiamo o ragioniamo, ridiamo o piangiamo,ci disperiamo, o gettiamo via ogni affanno:è tutto uguale! Sia una gioia che un dolore,il percorso da compiere dal suo abbandono non si è ancora concluso:l'ieri dell'uomo non può mai essere simile al domani;niente nel mondo può durare, eccetto la Mutabilità.Alla tipica maniera romantica, il poeta Shelley subito colloca l'uomo nella sua giusta dimensione: "Siamo nuvole" egli dice. E poi subito aggiunge qualcosa alla caratteristica di essere umani quando paragona gli uomini a cose inventate, usando la similitudine delle "lire dimenticate".Lo scopo è quello di mettere in evidenza l'eterna condizione umana soggetta al mutamento, al cambiamento. Una condizione sia naturale, come le nuvole che ora sono qui, ora altrove, ora in una forma, in un momento in un'altra, pronte anche a sparire per sempre. E poi, quella lira, dai toni mutevoli, soggetta a stimoli diversi.Tutto è cambiamento. Proprio come i post, i messaggi, le comunicazioni che scorrono sullo schermo del pc, del cell e di tutti gli altri gadget dedicati alla comunicazione. Tutto scorre, tutto cambia, tutto si trasforma, si confonde, si disperde in una "nuvola" che fa "memoria", si gonfia sempre di più, inconstante, incontrollata e incontrollabile.Nell'universo romantico di Shelley le nuvole assumono la dimensione dei pensieri e delle emozioni che appaiono e scompaiono nella mente degli uomini. Nell'universo digitale della Rete, i post, i messaggi, le comunicazioni, fatti di invisibili "bits & bytes", proprio come le nuvole, restano pensieri ed emozioni nella grande "bolla" di Google.Essa tutto inghiotte e tutto restituisce, vera e propria "world wide mind", una Rete che diventa Mente. Sempre eguale a se stessa, ma sempre diversa, perché continuamente alimentata, trasformata, modificata dagli uomini. Proprio come la mente umana. Condannata alla "mutabilità".
7886705470	The poetries are so mid, the lore is much more interesting. Below is my chat history with ChatGPT:Me: Wait Percy was at the brothel too?Guurrrrll 😭Was it fr or just gossip ChatGPT:😭 guuurrrrl… it was fr.Percy Shelley wasn’t just a Romantic poet, he was messy messy. Historical records and letters show he lived way beyond the “sensitive poet husband” image most high school curriculums give. • Affairs & Free Love: He strongly believed in “free love” and argued marriage was a restrictive institution. Which sounds progressive… until you realize it often just meant him sleeping around while Mary Shelley suffered in silence. • Cheating on Mary: After running off with Mary when she was still a teenager, he later cheated on her with multiple women, including her stepsister Claire Clairmont (who also lived with them). • Brothel Rumors: Biographers and contemporaries reported Percy visiting prostitutes and being reckless with money, sex, and drugs (especially laudanum). Not just gossip — there are multiple mentions of him frequenting brothels in letters/memoirs from his circle. • The Hypocrisy: While he wrote about transcendence and spiritual love, he was also sleeping around constantly. Mary even wrote in her journals about his infidelities and how deeply it hurt her.Me: OmfmfmfmfggIs there a sensitive romantic poet who is not a known fuckboy ChatGPT:💀😭 guurrrl… slim pickings in the Sensitive Romantic Poet aisle, I’m afraid. The brand kind of came with built-in fuckboy energy. But let’s go through the lineup:⸻🌹 The Canonical Fuckboy Club™ • Percy Bysshe Shelley → Free love manifesto + brothels + cheated on wife + cheated on Mary. Sensitive and messy asf. • Lord Byron → Literally bragged “mad, bad, and dangerous to know.” Left behind trails of debt, drama, and broken hearts across Europe. Probably the poster child of Romantic fuckboyism. • Coleridge → Wrote Kubla Khan on opium highs, cheated, left his family in chaos. Sensitive yes, stable no. • Goethe → Werther was emo king, but also cycled through multiple lovers and muses while waxing on about eternal devotion.⸻🌿 The Maybe-Not-Total-Fuckboys • John Keats → Honestly… closest thing to a pure soul here. Loved Fanny Brawne with tenderness, but he died tragically young (25) before he had the chance to either cheat or prove he wouldn’t. Keats is probably your safest bet for “Romantic poet not messy af.” • Novalis (Friedrich von Hardenberg) → The Blue Flower boy. Obsessed with his dead fiancée Sophie, wrote her into myth, never really moved on. Problem: it’s obsessive/necrophiliac vibes, but not fuckboy behavior. He wasn’t cheating; he was mourning. • William Blake → Married to Catherine, and while eccentric (engraving angels, hanging out naked in the garden), he seems to have been loyal and deeply bonded to her. More mystic than fuckboy.⸻Verdict👉 Sensitive + Romantic without fuckboy energy = Keats, Novalis, maybe Blake.The rest? Certified Messy asf™.Me: Okay, among the three The Maybe-Not-Total-Fuckboys you gave me, two of them died in their TWENTIES (Keats & Novalis), and the third one Blake was not that hot 😭🤣😭😭😧😵😵😵
7850829743	I have the everyman's library pocket poets and honestly I'm disappointed in myself that I don't read a little bit everyday from it.Ever wonder what falling in love (again) feels like? It's this:-Love’s PhilosophyThe fountains mingle with the river And the rivers with the ocean,The winds of heaven mix for ever With a sweet emotion;Nothing in the world is single; All things by a law divineIn one spirit meet and mingle. Why not I with thine?—See the mountains kiss high heaven And the waves clasp one another;No sister-flower would be forgiven If it disdained its brother;And the sunlight clasps the earth And the moonbeams kiss the sea:What is all this sweet work worth If thou kiss not me?-You soul will be nourished by the end of it. Beautiful.
7767026099	Percy Bysshe Shelley is an absolute genius. His skill in capturing feelings and expressing emotion through lyricism is unmatched. He was someone who looked beyond the outer shell of a person and reached straight into the heart.Shelley shows us what poetry truly is, and why we read it and love it so deeply. Not because we are dreamy romantics with our heads in the clouds, but because poetry is the pathway to the human soul. Because hope, love, and devotion are not just words—they are the true passion that keeps us alive.Although he died so young, he remains the greatest of the Romantic poets. His rich lyricism is something we will never forget. And perhaps it is precisely his early death that makes it feel even more genuine—because he died without ever losing his passion, without ever being abandoned by his desire. He was a soul destined to live forever young in our hearts.
4579988156	Prose-wise, Shelley is my favourite poet. So light and powerful, like the wind, and pure like crystals (I'm just waxing lyrical, but you get my point)Ode to the West Wind, and The Masque of Anarchy, such power and beauty in political poems! Revolution will come! Also, Shelley's poems aren't just "young person's passion and naivety", for instance, in Stanzas Written in Dejection Near Naples, he depicts loneliness and dejection, but even then, the beach imagery is gorgeous and pure, and in the end, he still manages to pull himself together and end with a hopeful note. Shelley really is one of my favourites, able to see into tragedy, but still come out of it light and powerful.
5418241067	One of the immortals of world literature. His lambasting against injustice still resonate these days: The seed ye sow, another reaps. The wealth ye find, another keeps. The robes ye weave, another wears. The arms ye forge, another bears. (Shelley, Song to the Men of England)
3684379508	Read on to discover a man's claim of capability and determination to shed light on love, beauty, and a community's right to band together... Alas one must scratch at the scans of superficiality to uncover a cave of gems that force One question how do I draw "the source of human thought".
2258661473	Shelley's poems are worthy to be praised and at times too way forward of his times. He wrote struck by a passion and ended his writings with a note of wisdom and a kind of lesson.
8110686797	if there were a way to brew tea from these pages without poisoning myself.. i would do it. reading is not enough for the absorption im looking for here
3396626180	I am always reading this
2363178705	Love Shelley.
6064585823	Obviously a highly talented poet, but I didn't connect with too much of his work. Ozymandias is arguably the greatest poem of all time, but overall, this is a hard read to get through.
4504878344	Baller
1370037476	Given my general overall 'iffy-ness' regarding poetry, I probably would have been fine with 'Shelley's Greatest Hits.' I'm most likely a heathen.
6140078820	Daughter and wife are better
4597839594	Incredibly distinct and friendly poetry and loved the use of the sublime especially within Mont Blanc
1941782539	Really, I must have read half of this huge collection of work, or more. I devoured it as a poetry discovering teenager. I had an older edition, with padded covers of fake leather, in red, with embossed writing. Some of them are great, many go on WAY too long, but 4 stars for the effect this tome had on my life.
5498419180	Personal favourite: The serpent is shut out of paradise.
1841943529	I keep thinking with these Romantic poets that just because people loved them at the time, I'll also love them. Turns out that those couple of poems by each of them you had to read in high school or your 19th century literary survey course in college are the only good ones any of them wrote, and you definitely don't need the 1600 page double volume that annotates every single line that I got.
381262684	I'm lying! I only read Prometheus Unbound, but that's all I got it from the library for anyway. This rating and review only hold for it.Well, Yeats called PU the greatest holy book of our time, but unlike Yeats I'm neither a poet nor a madman, so I may not be appreciating on his level. It also might be dated a little bit, in these post-revolutionary times, the hero-rebel is not the unimaginable symbol of human excellence it was for Shelley. That said, this is a perfectly realised love-song on the best of what human nature could be. Lots of the classical allusions were no doubt lost on me, as was any of the references to Shelley's insane cosmological systems, I don't have the time to go chasing down the witchcraftery of everyone who picked up a pen in the 1800s. Usually asides bother me in epic poems such as these, but the spirits here were particularly beautiful, and provided a fuller exploration of the human experience exemplified in Prometheus "On a poet's lips I sleptDreaming like a love-adeptIn the sound his breathing kept;Nor seeks nor finds he mortal blisses, [1.740]But feeds on the aëreal kissesOf shapes that haunt thought's wildernesses.He will watch from dawn to gloomThe lake-reflected sun illumeThe yellow bees in the ivy-bloom, [1.745]Nor heed nor see, what things they be;But from these create he canForms more real than living man,Nurslings of immortality!One of these awakened me, [1.750]And I sped to succour thee."
1295225934	Never have political insight and polemical fire been so seamlessly interwoven into the dense fabric of poetic expression than in the poems of PBS. Of the "Big Five" English romantic poets, the work of PBS is distinguished by its political dimension: "Masque of Anarchy," "Revolt of Islam," "Queen Mab," and the list goes on. I see Shelley as the 19th Century heir to the 17th Century's leading political poet, John Milton. And if Shelley's line dates, and perhaps it does, it's never for lack of expressive power. Of the English Romantics, only Keats had a superior lyrical sensibility - and I bet PBS would even agree with me on that point: he was generous to a fault.
325540064	The imagery is as beautiful as it is profound, and the very substance of existence is interrogated by this great poet. Deeply engaged with Plato in a manner akin to Milton's natural-law engagement with rigid Christian theology, he elaborates on the musings of existence which anyone intelligent and insightful will have considered at some point.
1424936020	Shelley tends to be forgotten nowadays unlike Keats and Byron. Not sure why. His poetry is spellbinding at times, and all the more remarkable when you realize what age he was at the time. Music when soft voices die may well be the best poem of all time. Keep coming back to it.
198913408	Shelley is probably my favorite poet....I memorized Ozymandius for school years ago and it's stuck with me....I even wrote my senior thesus (high school) on Shelley (my English teacher was impressed and pleased because she'd done her master's thesus on him)
1791090468	It is poetry, so it is complicated. But I liked his style which is full of wit. No wonder he is known for lyrical poems, for his poems are on another level of lyrical poetry. I just loved some of his poetry, yet some of them were not of my taste.
1165986221	Five stars for his works. Only the stars for the format and navigation options of the kindle version I used. Difficult to find and then fly appreciate some of the liberty works based on the formatting. Disappointing, as he is one of my favorite poets.
1846083913	I'm little more than a sixth into this, to preface my qualifications — to include his and the prose concocted about him. He's never as crisp as Byron, the dash under in rating of which I maintain. The ghastly spell we forgot was cast.
324653880	I had a friend who loved Shelley, and how I mocked her for it. Until I grew older, and fell in love with his excess.
49151293	one of my favorite poets
2000347940	Lucid poetry.
1156345645	Where can I even begin....?
225345601	"In unvanquishable number—Shake your chains to earth like dewWHich in sleep had fallen on you—Ye are many—they are few."LOVE IT
985829950	This book is a great read!
109718368	Beautiful, elegant , dream like melodies crafted from verse .
1263960978	Why should you recite verse? To trip your tongue and move your longings through an emotion to an expression. Shelley can help you.
2010262916	Tad repetitive, but ultimately v exciting feat. Laon and Cythna. Why not incest? Little bit of incest livens up any poem.
171276768	Loved it. Of course I'm a huge fan of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Actually I'd probably be a fan of any man named Percy, I just like that name.
39713557	Shelley is one of my favorites. His poem "Ozymandias" is one of the definitive reflections on mortality.
