4165130473	libby rhodes corruption arc confirmed. 5/5
4619251471	If you could peer into my brain right now you would see me running around in circles at light speed, screaming, while sirens blare in the background, and everything is on fire, probably.So, safe to say - it’s good.
4170718920	This was just as bad as the first one. Maybe even worse, I don't know. It was all over the place. There was no plot. Characters just talked and talked and it was so tedious. All of them were so pretentious. They acted like they were so smart and philosophical but they are just not. The only character I liked was Libby. She has always been the best character in the series. She deserves better than this. Also, in the first book, everyone hated Libby and now they are obsessed with her. How interesting. Everything keeps thinking about her but it doesn't make sense. No one really liked her in the first book and now that she's gone everyone suddenly misses her? It's mentioned that they miss her anxiety and moral compass. What?? Though Libby was the best part of this book, her arc was really underwhelming. Nothing really happened till the end. Nico, Tristan, Ezra and Belen seem to really like her but Libby doesn't really seem to care romantically about any of them. I'm interested to see whether she remains single or ends up with someone. I couldn't really stand any of the other characters. But still, I hated Reina. She was so annoying. She acted like a petulant child and was angry all the time. She spent this entire book shouting at everyone and talking to plants.(view spoiler)[She also has a god complex now. (hide spoiler)] Yeah, she is more obnoxious than ever. Other characters were bland. Also, I really thought Ezra would have a bigger role in this book. I thought he would be the main villain and would try to convince Libby to join him.(view spoiler)[But he did nothing here and died. (hide spoiler)]I'll be reading the third book because I'm curious and not because I liked this series.
5126104240	Nothing happens. But, seriously, nothing happens.This suffered from something a lot of character-driven stories go through. They had a book developing the characters and their relationships with each other. You got hooked to certain friendships and romantic entanglements. Then there's an entire book of all of those ships being separated for no good reason. You spend the entire book waiting for them to come back together. For what? What plot does this serve?Ezra Fowler? I do not care about this man. I do not CARE about this CHILD. He's how old??? And he acts like a scraggly-ass white boy who hides poetry in his rucksack. The territorial behavior towards Libby. I'm disgusted.This book focused so much on the backstory of Ezra and Atlas. For what? Who cares??BUTBUTBUT!!!Hear me out, there were several things that happened in this book that had me GASPING. Literally flailing, throwing my arms in the sky and screaming with joy. If you know, you know. But those moments made all the rest of the tedium worth while. What I'll say is:I am here for the Libby corruption arc.
4916200292	I received an ARC of this book via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you very much! When I read the Atlas Six (TA6), I wasn't sure how to rate it, because while I loved the book very much, the characters annoyed me to hell and back, so I stuck with a rating of 4 stars without any explanation. This book (TAP) takes everything I loved about TA6, puts it in trash bags, and takes it out back to be collected.So, when you write a book, you generally have to have something the book is about, a.k.a a PLOT. P-L-O-T. In TAP, we look for this in vain. As a reminder, we left TA6 with Libby abducted to the past, and the other characters swearing that they will search for her. As TAP begins, they have abandoned this search completely. "We have looked everywhere!" they say "she simply isn't anywhere. Let's give up and be sexy instead." Ok. Great. So this book consists of five characters being incredibly bland, just existing. Callum, at least, puts it into words: He's got nothing to do, so he just idles for this year and then sees what'll come to him. I wish the others were as honest. In TA6, at least there was this looming sense of danger by them having to kill one of the six, but this has completely disappeared. There are no stakes left. None of these five remaining people have any kind of goal, nothing to work towards, no aspirations or anything they even want. And that, my friends, makes for very dull reading.Then, once in a while, we get a breath of fresh air - A Libby Chapter!!! Now, Libby is my favorite character, anyway. It really is funny that all the others say she's the most annoying and unbearable, but then she's actually the only one who isn't pretentious as fuck. And even if I didn't like her, her chapters are just something special, because they read like an actual book, and not just an anthology of boredom. She actually has a goal she's working towards! She wants to find a way back home! How refreshing, how novel, how - utterly expected. The bar is on the floor, and yet Libby is the only one who manages to step over it. So what do the other five do while Libby carries the book on her shoulders? Nothing. I admit, I actually quite liked the discussions of how magic worked in TA6, because I could still kind of see a connection to our own physics. It all made sense. The discussions of magic in TAP have left the realm of understandable. This book is dark academia in a way that it feels like me reading a dissertation on quantum physics in a room with no light. Either Olivie Blake has the understanding of quantum physics of a Nobel laureate, has access to one of those, or she's talking bullshit in complicated words and hopes none of her readers understand enough of her ramblings to call her out on it. About 80% of this book is theoretical musings on how magic works, with 15% being people sleeping wth Parisa, because she is oh-so-hot, and the other 5% being actual P-L-O-T. It's honestly quite a tragedy. Once again: NOTHING HAPPENS IN THIS BOOK. Reina thinks she's a god, and instead of getting her help, people shrug and say "okay". Callum just exists. Parisa thinks she's better than everyone. Tristan? Well, I couldn't tell you anything about him, to be honest. Nico just sleeps for the entire thing. I can't even tell you how absolutely mind-numbingly bored I was reading this book. There's even a goddamn gala-ball situation, and nothing happens! It's done with in one POV chapter, what a goddamn waste! One can only read so many theoretical musings on the nature of hypothetical magic. So, yeah, in conclusion: Considering this is a trilogy, this second book was not needed at all. Why not make it a nice duology instead, where things actually happen in both books, and forget this ever existed?
4019271989	Loved it even more than TA6. RTC----Watch me compulsively check for updates every day until the release date. 2022 seems too far away, I need this book now! ç_ç
4612487274	[4.75]NICOGIDEON YOU WILL ALWAYS BE FAMOUS !!!
4565299955	4.5⭐ *Spoiler-free review* This blew my fucking mind. However, the first 1/4 is slow. Like, really slow. Just get through it. Shit hits the fan precisely at the 25% mark and it doesn't let up the rest of the way.~*~*~* re-read: November 2023 *~*~*~A highly enjoyable second pass of book two in The Atlas trilogy. I might even argue that I had more fun this time around since I was less stressed about taking everything in.
4019330024	** spoiler alert ** I need it now!! Nicolibby please!! They are binary stars 🥰🥰I LOVE THE COVER!! impatiently waiting for this bookAfter reading: I’m disappointed. So disappointed.The beginning of this book was great. The initiation scenes were perfect and the alliances starting to be formed were great. Callum and Reina were unexpected, and Tristan and Nico were great. That being said, I hate how they ruined Nico and Reinas friendship and the weird dynamic between Callum, Parisa, and Tristan. Some of the characters also fell so flat for me. Parisa was all over the place and seemed pointless. I hate how she slept with Nico. And I wish her and Reina had a bigger relationship. Callum also fell of the rails. He was having some sort of identity crisis or something. He wasn’t his normal evil self and I actually hated how he was written in this book. I also really don’t care for Dalton. He makes no sense. Also Atlas was confusing af. Ok now into Libby. My fav character. Her arc could’ve been so much better. I mean she was lost in time!! Good for her for creating a life for herself. That whole thing with the Belen girl was weird, especially cause she dies later. I feel like Libby had no development. She just went kinda psycho at the end. It was actually so disappointing. But lowkey I’m excited to see her being badass and everyone being like whattt. Ok also I hate how Tristan claims he’s like in love with Libby. I kinda wish Libby’s absence had been a bigger deal. Also Reina claiming she’s a god was interesting. Ok also Gideon is eh for me. He’s supposed to be like this super good guy and yeah he actually is, but his plot lines made no sense. Like the whole stuff with the Prince? I don’t even understand. Also I know NicoGideon lovers will hate me for this, but literally Nico belongs with Libby. I was eating up the NicoLibby crumbs. And boy were there only a few. But everyone said how different he was without Libby. Like he was a shell of himself. It’s that’s not soulmates then idk what is. So while I do think the NicoGideon kiss was cute, I’m really hoping Nico and Libby will have so many interactions in the next book. That’s actually all I need. Ok so also everything plot wise by 1/2 in the book was confusing. Like the Forum wasn’t even doing anything against the Society. Ezra was lame. But he’s dead so whatever. Ok also Adrian Caine (Tristan’s dad) trying to kill everyone was wack. Doesn’t even make sense. And then at the end of the book everyone goes their separate ways. Dalton and Parisa are together doing whatever, Tristan stayed with Atlas? And Reina and Callum pay Adrian Caine a visit. And then Libby returns to kill Ezra and goes to Nico and Gideon. The plot was not developed at all and I was disappointed in all the characters and relationships and UGH. I just hope the third book is great cause I know it can be.
4199648689	2.75 starsall i wanted was nicolibby but no. it took me forever to read this book. i only finished it because i love libby (and kinda nico and gideon) but the rest of the characters were constantly falling flat for me. nothing really picked up until the last 20% of the book and if you asked me what happened in the latter 80%, i would have no idea what to tell you. if you are a nicolibby stan, read this at your own risk.
5061121834	OB’s narration hasn't changed from the first book, and it's up to you to consider it a good or a bad thing. For me, the issue isn't the unbearable pages of nothingness, but the absence of action. While in The Atlas Six I could excuse pages and pages of thoughts, feelings, memories, and lessons with just a little motion, this book right here could have been summed up in a hundred pages, an additional chapter to the story in the function of what will happen next.Nothing happens, but at the same time, the alliances are made. Now we know who the real villains are and who just like to mess around.But to reach that point, firstly, we have to go through hundreds of pages about people mad at each other who still don't communicate with each other. I know that they don't have to be friends, but it's also senseless that they hate each other; I can excuse Callum, but Reina was just being a bitch because she realised she was lonely because she pushed out everyone who tried to be friends with her.And this made me wonder, what's the point of creating a character with a personality, ideas, beliefs and whatever just to cut to the bone her written time and, also, making it very annoying?! The worst glow-down in the history of magic, I believe.Another reason why I came back is romance, and I have plenty to say about it too.I'm a sucker for the little - very little - romance Mrs Blake gives us, I needed to know more since the moment I finished the first book, but I've now realised that she's just messing with our feelings, creating ships everywhere with everyone.I thought we all considered Libby and Tristan canon as much as Nico and Gideon, but I was wrong. Now, I don't know if we've read a different version of The Atlas Six, but I can't really see Nicolibby happen after the first chapters of the book; they're friends, they’re one side of the same coin, they function better together… but romantic relationships are not always about explosions. Also, I can't figure out a better match than Nico and Gideon, c’mon.So, what now? We wait. 9 January 2024, mark your calendar for The Atlas Complex. I still don't understand what is coming, but I'm ready to find out how the world is gonna end.↠ 3.5 stars
4896248199	How to review a book you're obsessed with? I never quite mastered the art. It's a very rare occasion for me to rate two books in a series, in a row, five stars each. I was terrified this wouldn't live up to my love for The Atlas Six, but I didn't need to be worried at all. If anything it just turned me right back into the Olivie Blake fangirl I was last year. Between this series and Masters of Death, Olivie Blake may very well become a new favourite author. This book is just everything I adore. Sardonic characters, messy relationships, complicated emotions, fantasy routed in logic, dark academia vibes, ethical conundrums...genuinely I have nothing bad to say about it. There is no shying away from complex situations, and various perspectives are woven together seamlessly. I just adore it, and every time I read more from this series I am astounded. Now to impatiently wait for another one.
5526984334	This definitely had second book syndrome. It meandered a lot. The relationships between characters also struggle with a telling instead of showing aspect. I never know who actually has feelings for each other at any given moment. Characters continue to be unlikable but that’s fine for me. The writing is still flowery and pretentious at times but it really toned down from book 1.
4703634264	Masterfully written! Certainly, the deep introspection of Olivie Blakes' characters (told seamlessly in multiple POVs; Reina Mori's chapters towards the last third of the book were pure Wisdom!) have been stepped up a notch in peril to the fluidity of her plotline when compared with the first installment. "She tightened a fist, and the fern in the corner unfurled with the sound of a cracking whip, the branches propelling out like tentacles. There was something growing in her now, festering. Something softer than betrayal, but only in a rotting way, like a translucent peach fuzz of mold. Maybe she was annoyed with him. A spidery bite of something pestering, like the insistence of an itchy tag or whining insect hovering just out of sight. Maybe she was irritated by the discovery that apparently Nico de Varona saw nothing of consequence in her at all." This has been well worth a read coming from a very talented writer with a stunning sequel. Highly recommended for a variety of enthusiasts; Fantasy, LitFiction, Supernatural, Sci-Fi.2022 Read
5056411199	DNF’ing at 35%. sorry i really tried, but this felt so messy and frankly, i was so bored. it feels like olivie doesn’t even know where the story is going herself, and i feel like she’s trying to do too much within one book/series. like fantasy, romance, philosophical ideas, physics, dark academia, it all just feels jumbled to me. on top of that, i’m not a huge fan of her writing — it feels as though she’s saying a whole lot without saying anything at all (using ambiguous language and trying so hard to be philosophical and deep isn’t my fav). i didn’t especially love the first one, but this one disappointed me :/ also found out the ship i cared about didn’t even happen (what a waste).
4103993635	nicolibby forever
4268835244	Hm. Where to begin? I read The Atlas Six with the preconceived notion that I was going to love the book, and love it I did. Where some thought it was boring, pretentious, and not compelling, I thought it was abstract, entertaining, and unlike anything I’ve ever read. The characters and the way the story moved around them were endlessly interesting to me and I was excited to see how the story would continue in the future installments. Regrettably, The Atlas Paradox was… not a similar experience. The story went on, and things… happened? But instead of feeling like I was living through the experiences with the characters, I felt like I was merely being told what they did and felt in paragraphs upon paragraphs of endless droning. The book focused heavily on the internal and barely at all on the external, which I usually enjoy. It just didn’t work for me in this case. In hindsight, this book is incredibly similar to its predecessor, but what worked in that one sadly did not work a second time. Olivie’s writing style, as abstract and enjoyable as it is to me, does not seem to be suited to writing a multi-book series. The novelty of the first book’s mysterious air wore off rather quickly, I fear, because this book meandered until it couldn’t meander anymore. The characters are what powered me through this story. The unexpected team-ups in this book and the way they interacted with one another was a really interesting route to take, and I liked it a lot. There were some really great moments of dialogue and things that made me laugh out loud! But I find I have no positive or negative expectations for the future of this series. I think Olivie is telling the story she wants to tell, and I don’t have any critiques or suggestions on what could have been done differently or better, but all I can say is that I feel very unmoved by this sequel.
7606266204	‘Six magicians were presented with the opportunity of a lifetime 🙌🏼 Five are now members of the Society ✋🏼 Two paths lie before them 👣 All must pick a side.’ 🫣The Society of Alexandrians will be revealed for what it is: a secret society with raw, world-changing power, lead by a man whose plans to change life as we know it were already under way… This was another MIND-BOGGLING novel by Blake 🤯😮‍💨🫣Welcome back to the magical library with the most talented, complex and devious characters to ever exist…To be honest, this book had a slow start. Considering the EPIC ending of the first book, I was hoping to jump straight in to fast-paced action. Nope 🙂‍↔️ that is not what Olivie had planned for us. Saying that, I did enjoy the content at the beginning of the book (and throughout), it was just a bit slower than I had anticipated. However, the second half of this book was AN EPIC JOURNEY through past and present. I couldn’t read the words fast enough. I NEEDED to know how this would end…This book was different from the first in a multitude of ways. It was far more complex in nature. There was also a more mysterious feel to this book.; a lot was going unexplained, or left open for interpretation. Olivie drip fed us little bits of information that kept my curiosity up. As the story went on, I became more and more interested in what was to be revealed 🫣 This story is no whimsical fantasy tale, rather one of philosophical dark academia. And, the remaining newbie’s to the Society were deadly weapons about to be unleashed on to the world…“And Ezra knew, even if they did not, that Atlas had a plan for them. Atlas had a plan for everyone.’🤨Most of the characters I really liked and enjoyed reading their inner monologues. However, there were definitely two POV I enjoyed the most. One was Tristan’s POV; He is a deeply complex character, that not even he knows the depths of. And the other is a secret POV 🤐 because I don’t want to spoil the story, but WOW - it was intense and so captivating! I love both these characters so much 😭 On the other hand, one character I couldn’t stand was Callum 😐 he irritated me so much! Overall, this was another EPIC read; the ending in particular! Olivie always seems to catch me off guard (and I love it 🤭). Everything I loved about The Atlas Six applies to The Atlas Paradox, along with much deeper character, and plot, development. This dark, brilliantly clever, and utterly compelling series has me HOOKED, and I can’t wait for the finale 🙌🏼 “Just because information exists doesn’t mean that people will act on it…you can say all the things you want, but it doesn’t mean people will believe it.” 🤔4.5 🌟🌟🌟🌟✨
5165061746	This exceeded my expectations compared to the first book and I found it highly enjoyable.
4078597172	** spoiler alert ** If only I was a certain someone that could open up a door to when this book is released. I am so bloody hyped for the next book holy wow
3981309888	5 out of 5 fucking stars that was a fucking EXPERIENCEChmura's art was breathtaking, the way Olivie made the character's voices shine through in their pov's was masterful and by god the PROSE!! THE ALLIANCES!! THE PLOTTWISTS!! THE CHARACTERS!! INCREDIBLE????anyone who's ever spoken to me for more than 5 minutes knows how much I love The Atlas Six, and I can confidently tell you that The Atlas Paradox is a sequel WORTHY of that love. also my sanity is in shambles.
4601595039	the atlas paradox said, you might think you know what’s going on after reading the atlas six, but you’re wrong. ❤️first, i had expectations for potential “teams” going into this, which was kind of a stupid idea because olive blake said that the pairings would be very hard to predict, but i wouldn’t have ever guessed that we’d get callum and reina working together? and tristan and nico? and even just parisa and gideon meeting in the way they did was so unexpected. but then again, some things, like reina and parisa, never change.okay, so what did i think about this book? it definitely had book 2 vibes, in the sense that it felt like stuff was being set up. but not in a bad way, because while it definitely felt slower than book 1 at times, a lot still happened, and what was happening was by no means boring. i enjoyed seeing the characters finish their fellowship, libby escape (!!!) and learn more about the forum and the people ezra was working with.speaking of, BELEN. that whole plot was SO GOOD. when i realized she was the same woman as the professor who ezra was describing i was like :?#>!?>@! it was so good. okay, moving onto the romance. frankly, the romance in these books is like my least favourite thing about them LOL everything else is just a lot more significant, but it’s there so i’ll mention it. clearly we have a libby/tristan situation but like, they haven’t even officially met again (besides tristan’s whole “you need to build a bomb” thing) since libby’s kidnapping so … but nicogideon canon kiss???!!!?! lowkey wasn’t sure if it was gonna happen but it did. i absolutely respect olive blake’s ability to make like 99% of her characters queer. oh and also tristan admitting to callum that they were something WOW didn’t see that admission coming…. anyway there’s more but i want to write about other things nowwait. i have to add one thing: nicolibby make no sense to me as a romantic couple. i see them as purely platonic and really get no romantic vibes from them so i really don’t get the hardcore nicolibby stans lolALSO i wouldn’t be opposed to reinaparisa in book 3… will it happen…. we’ll see… OKAY. let’s get into the characters.first, REINA because i haven’t talked about her yet and really want to. reina clearly changed a lot in this book, lately due to nico and discovering the way he sees her. i… don’t know what to feel. i love her, but her callum-related plans scare me. this new version of her scares me. not that i wanted her to continue to just be a power source for libby and nico, but… i’m curious to see where her god thing goes, and lets just pray she gets away from callum soon. RUN, reina, pls. well, callum next. literally, i can’t with this man. this book really just showed us how he cares about nothing… but then…. the opposite? basically he did absolutely nothing and then suddenly, he’s coming up with plans to save libby, helping reina, and meeting with tristan’s dad?? i was just about to say that maybe it wasn’t even worth my time to hate him anymore but then he ha to go and meet with adrian. if killing tristan is his goal, i’m afraid i have to go back to hating him. PARISAAAAAA i love her. i wish she had more page-time in this book, because frankly we basically just saw her either with dalton (ugh), nico (fine but ultimately probably not going anywhere), and gideon (that was interesting) but i wanted more of her and her jung work!!! but it seems my wishes won’t be answered because this girl is STILL with dalton by the end of the book. oh well.tristan. why do i not have more to say about him, hmm… idk. he’s developing his powers, so that’s fun. OH. working with atlas. not so fun… potentially? and his dad wants to kill him. clearly lots of stress coming for him in book 3.and finally….. nico and libby! have to talk about them together ofc. it was cool to see these two separated. stressful, but interesting. loved seeing nico try to get her back, and loved libby using her own strength to get back without his help. her arc has been so so good!!!! very curious to see what these two get up to in book 3. okay well it’s very early in the morning and i’m sure I’m forgetting a lot and that this review made 0 sense but i absolutely cannot wait for the atlas complex. frankly, there are a lot of open plot lines that need resolving and i’m not sure which will take precedence over others, but i trust olivie so!!! *4.5✧･ﾟ: *✧･ﾟ:* *:･ﾟ✧*:･ﾟ✧ my carrd ❦
4504092574	4.5/5 Olympus was empty. The gods were already here. I enjoyed this so much! Olivie Blake's main talent has always been her characters, they are simply extraordinary. I didn't think she could expand on their flaws and their corruption and their wavering morals and fears, yet she did. She expertly spun a destructive web that tangled them all together, twisting and changing them. I don't think I've ever seen such intelligent, cunning and manipulative characters ever written with such precision and nuance.Morality and mortality are both huge themes in this book, even more so than in the first, and I absolutely adored every conversation and thought that drew them across the page. Blake's prose is stunning and even more gorgeous than in The Atlas Six. She weaves these opposing ideas and conflicting characters together so flawlessly, with revelations that consume your mind. This is a book that you will devour for its intelligence and its blood, it's a book that will make you hunger for more and unsettle your ambitions, it's a book that will make you want, it will make you desire something great.It's an incredibly character-driven story that works so well because the characters are phenomenal. Not one of them is a character to forget, even the ones without POVs. They take up such a large space in the universe and they all demand something of it. None of them are content with who they are or what they have, none of them are content with not understanding and therefore they will go to great extents (as we already know) to achieve some miniscule aspect of comprehension. But the universe is ineffable and this torments them each in their own ways.This is only one of many aspects so fascinating about the genius of these characters. They are all so very human. Despite their god-like abilities, they are so deeply human—broken and flawed. They all have tragedies woven into their histories and pasts (and futures), they all know loss and grief as something familiar, and they all know how to play the deadly game they've ended up in. They're smart and cruel and unwavering.The mind games and endless tip-toeing around their truths, prying out forbidden secrets, game that they play is never-ending and never ceases to be entertaining. Not knowing their true motivations nor their true hearts is riveting for us as the reader, and dissecting the truth in their narratives is just as much fun.There were some unlikely alliances in this book and I loved getting to see these new dynamics and their strengths and weaknesses. And, as a selfish take, I also loved that many of the relationships I adore progressed and grew even further. Not one character or relationship is stationary.Parisa has always been one of my favourites and I decided very quickly when I started reading this book that she is my absolute favourite. I love morally corrupt women in fiction who are allowed to be morally corrupt and exist without remorse or guilt, without having to be changed or saved. It's so refreshing to have something so immoral left out to bleed onto the page and I loved every single second of it. (Not to mention she might actually, genuinely, be the love of my life!)Gideon—a very contrasting character—comes second place in my heart of favourites. As much as I love morally grey and just plain evil characters, I also love wholeheartedly good characters. What I love so much about Gideon is that he knows very clearly what matters to him and yet he's also afraid. He's afraid of being alone, he's afraid of what that means, and more than that he's afraid of people choosing to leave him. He's just as intelligent as the rest of the competing cast, but he's nowhere near as callous. Maybe it's also the fact that he's nowhere near as murderous. He is, in fact, extremely compassionate and more human than any of them.However, I think it is Callum that I find the most interesting. He's full of inexplicable depth and unwanted longing, he feels and he hates it—he hates it more than anything. For all his cruelty, for all his horrors, I think he's one of the best. He knows hatred intimately, he knows it like he knows the truths he denies himself, like he knows humanity. He knows these things as one brush stroke of a much larger canvas, he is both limited and limitless. It is this divine contradiction that draws me to him. He is a man who knows he is small and is content with remaining so, he is a man who knows he is not small and is discontent with remaining so. He is a tapestry of emotions, some clear to the eye in an outstanding picture, some hidden and smothered beneath murky waters. There is positively nothing about him that is simple. Yet feeling is what it all comes down to; his ability to warp and to control, but unable to control the same in himself, unable to stop feeling, unable to stop hurting. He views this humanity as weakness, he views humans as boring and predictable and so obviously emotional, trying relentlessly to prove he is dissimilar. But, more than anyone, he feels.I think my favourite scene of the entire book was the very first Callum chapter, it expands on everything I've touched on here about his character in a far more precise, heart-wrenching way.There was also another character introduced who we followed closely only for a short amount of time, but I admired her and the small story we were told so incredibly much. Olivie Blake, even through these (supposedly simple) acts of character creation, constructs a rich and vibrant world full of boundless stories.I find absolutely all of the characters so complex and intriguing, but I won't go into all of them (as much as I would very much like to) so that we're not here forever. But I do want to emphasise that you will never find characters like these ones, you will never find characters like these whose pure construction will haunt you.To put it simply, I loved it! The writing was even more beautiful than in the first, I wanted to quote entire chapters, and I enjoyed it even more than the first. You should definitely pick this up if you were even remotely debating doing so. To know what people really are and not destroy them is savagely remarkable. Thank you Netgalley and Pan Macmillan for providing me with an e-arc in exchange for an honest review.
4642481604	SIMPLY PUT I DONT KNOW WHAT TO FEEL AND TO SAY BUT OH MYYYYY!LITERALLY WTF HAPPENED?!?!ALL I HAVE TO SAY LIBBY FUCKING RHODES <333THEY ALL SLAYED!
5467730089	—reread—The world of The Atlas Paradox is one I love to be immersed in. The characters have the strongest hold on my heart, and I fell in love with them even harder this reread. —4 stars—“Death is what makes us what we are, which is alive. Mortality, those clever little brackets. Births and deaths, beginnings and ends.”————about the book————Age: YA/NAGenres: dark academia, paranormalWriting: 9/10Quotes: 7/10World building: 8/10Characters: 8/10Romance: 6/10My rating: 8.5/10———my thoughts———The world’s best magicians were offered a choice. Kill one of their number, and gain access to limitless power.For most, the decision seemed easy...and then everything went wrong.As all the characters grow closer—and further—apart, enemies are made, alliances are broken, and the morals of Atlas Blakey are questioned...But how far would they go for knowledge, and, above all, where is Libby Rhodes?I love Olivie Blake’s writing.It’s dryly funny, it’s sarcastic, and the interactions between characters are perfect!But the thing I love most about her writing, is how she wrote her world. The different magics, the way they’re described, the way the different powers are used in different ways, it’s so immersive!But I still have issues understanding it.Maybe I’m just not clever enough, but I think this book would really do with a glossary of the different phrases and names for the magic—halfway through, these people called witches turn up and I have no clue what they are or do! Maybe I missed something, but it just feels like there isn’t enough explanation.Oddly, however much I enjoy the writing, it didn’t really suck me in until the last hundred pages...but some of the reveals had me gasping! (view spoiler)[BELEN?!? (hide spoiler)] Still, most of the book felt quite slow to me.However, the characters are what I stay for every time.And in this book, I lived for them.We got so much more insight into them and their motives, and even if all my ships are falling apart at the seams, I loved the new directions they took!And, I love all the characters now—even Callum and Tristan, who I was skeptical about before!I’m excited to see what will happen in the next book, and where the characters will go!————quotes————“Ah, so then this is destiny.So this, then, is fate.”“Elizabeth Rhodes, destroyer of worlds.”“Call it my nature, or the fact that everyone has an agenda and there is always something wrong.”“I never plot, nor do I scheme. Though I do on occasion conspire.”———random extra thoughts———All the characters have my heartThanks for reading!❤️
5046910114	the worst thing to happen to cubans since the bay of pigs arc read
5069110276	I know I said I was a Nico de Varona enthusiast above all else… though something about Callum stewing in self pity for the entirety of this book was so deliciously dark academia, that my love for him nearly surpassed the fondness I have for my favourite magical Cuban physicist. Callum’s initiation scene? It was everything; I couldn’t stop thinking about it for days.At this point, my love for character-driven stories is being blatantly being reinforced. This book was proof enough that I am perfectly okay with next to no plot when the characters themselves are just so damn interesting. “Are you losing your mind?”“Yes,” Parisa replied with a roll of her eyes. “I’m succumbing to madness, thanks. And you?”“Making progress.” I was admittedly a little nervous going into The Atlas Paradox, since I knew a lot of people were disappointed with it in comparison to book one. Imagine my surprise when I found myself glued to every page, enjoying every ounce of tension, romance, and slow-moving plot that most readers had an issue with. The individual dynamics between these characters will never not be interesting to me, so the major shifting in alliances that occurred really kept me invested. Callum and Reina were probably the strangest pair to me, until Blake turned their half-hearted alliance into a sort of unspoken comfort between the two loneliest initiates of the archives. I hope their friendship fluorishes even further in the next book, though I wouldn't put it past Blake to crush it completely.Tristan and Nico’s emerging alliance was definitely something I expected. Although they didn’t interact much in The Atlas Six, Tristan and Nico always felt really compatible to me. It was especially nice to see them united in their desire to find Libby and return her to the archives, being the only two initiates making a genuine effort to save her. Then again, we also have my favourite non-initiate (Gideon) who also contributed to finding Libby. I was starved for more crumbs of Gideon content after book one, so finally receiving his POVs in The Atlas Paradox was bliss. Blake’s exploration of his dreamwalking was super fascinating... I think my heart melted every time he met Nico in his dreams (their friendship (view spoiler)[(boy)friendship (hide spoiler)] is everything). (view spoiler)[Gideon finally kissing Nico at the end sent me into orbit. Every time Nico calls Gideon “Sandman” or Gideon calls Nico “Nicky/Nicolas” I lose it…their bond is the purest thing in the world. (hide spoiler)] “They had shared something that couldn't be undone-something that had followed them around, joining them even in their absences form each other. History did that to people. Proximity. Love in some cases, hatred in others. The specific kind of intimacy that meant that every enemy was once a friend.” I’m itching to see how the individual romances will unfold in The Atlas Complex. It baffles me that Blake has created a cast so intertwined with each other that almost every ship seems plausible. While I have my preferences, the fact that I’m okay with almost every pairing speaks volumes as to the brilliance of these character dynamics. Now that we're at the end of book two, there seems to be a clear trajectory for certain characters, though Tristan remains the most up-in-the-air to me. While Libby is certainly the most plausible endgame for him after all that occurred so far, I can’t shake the feeling that he’s still a little in love with Parisa and Callum. Reina seems asexual/aromantic to me; I definitely picture her and Callum remaining friends in their potential romantic solitude. Then there’s Parisa with Dalton, which seems pretty obvious, no?And Nico…… I’m so so happy for him.It only feels right to close another review with more rambling about Nico (consistency, and whatnot). Him and his puppy-dog personality will always have a special place in my heart; it was so sweet that he wanted to say proper goodbyes to everyone at the archives before they departed, and was genuinely disappointed when all of the others insisted upon apathy.I'll never get over the special bond he shares with Gideon. Something about them speaking three languages to one another like their secret pact, and thinking nothing but the best about each other is so precious. Nico calling Gideon “the best person [he] knows”, and Gideon thinking longingly of Nico when he thought he was dying threatened to break my heart in the best way possible. These two have latched onto my heart oh so fiercely.Well.... I guess I'll see you all in a year when The Atlas Paradox releases, for what will certainly be another incoherent review about these six idiots (+ Gideon) and my endless love for them.
4838032505	three stars because this book showed me how to win friends and influence people
5925722351	Non avrei mai pensato di concludere questo secondo capitolo con un forte senso di delusione e perplessità.Il nulla cosmico regna sovrano in questo libro, la narrazione sembra come bloccarsi non apportando, per la maggior parte, dei nuovi risolvi significati.Nonostante questo trovo sempre molto affascinanti questi personaggi profondamente sbagliati, ho apprezzato alcune dinamiche che si sono create e quel poco che ha smosso la trama mi fa credere in un capitolo finale più esaustivo e emozionante.Almeno ci spero.
4389387932	i cannot WAIT for this. my craving for nicolibby is increasing by every passing second. update after finishing 10/29/22 I’m gonna need a while to process all of that and write something semi-legible without screaming but all I can say for now is HOW DARE YOU END IT LIKE THAT????
4855273162	I really loved the first book in this series. I'm sorry to say that this one was not as good 😪 Nothing happens for the first three hundred pages.The last hundred pages saved this book for me. I just wished that the whole book would have been like those last pages 📖
4589551905	I'm just gonna let Nico and Parisa do unspeakable things to me idc
4134811871	HOLY.FUCKING.SHIT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
6224091204	RATING BREAKDOWNCharacters: 4⭐️Setting: 4⭐️Plot: 4⭐️Themes: 4⭐️Emotional Impact: 3⭐️Personal Enjoyment: 4⭐️Total Rounded Average: 4 ⭐️I loved this second foray back into the Alexandria Society, and this band of initiates. With Libby still missing, the remaining five classmates continue their studies in the secret library. Reina explores the possibility that she and her fellow initiates may be the latest iteration of deity, while Tristan explores his powers at the edges of death's grip, in the hopes that he can manipulate matter beyond time's dimension. Callum is still spiraling from the events of last semester, but is also pursuing the mystery of Libby's disappearance, and combining his abilities with Reina's power to influence the most stubborn thing of all—the sentient library itself. All the while Nico is trying to find Libby and assist Tristan, all for Gideon's sake, to help his friend with his affliction of narcolepsy. Libby is lost in the past, trying to get home, and Parisa is trying to infiltrate Atlas's agenda and discover Dalton's secrets.While critics have claimed the book has no plot, I find the exposition of the Alexandrian Society and Atlas's part in it to be intriguing and gripping. The exploration of the magic system as the characters embark on self-discovery, and expose one another is deeply fascinating and artfully done. And in the midst of it all, Libby is having a crisis of identity and morality in the past, and coming into her own villain origin story. I was so here for it.Ezra, Dalton and Atlas have history, secrets, and agendas to slice and dice here, and it's done as the story evolves. The climax is satisfying and shocking at once. And leaves room for the initiates to take center stage in the final installment. I'm so ready for the Atlas Complex.I am a fan of Olivie Blake, so I'm predisposed to like this. I won't recommend to all fantasy readers. But this series sits beautifully at the intersection of speculative fiction, literary character study, and urban fantasy, with some dark academia heavily steeped in the stitches of the thing. It's my actual fantasy come true. I really love it. This one is written for a specific audience. If it's you, it's gonna be everything you want and more.
4924046084	Someone kill olivie blake right now so she can't ruin nicogideon in book3
6659492073	Unfortunately I thought this book was a mess, which is sad given how much I enjoyed the first book in this series. In The Atlas Paradox, I found the dialogue boring, the characters stagnant, and the plot non-existent. I feel like the set up of the first book really enabled a great sense of tension, and the characters and their interactions with each other were much sharper. Here, I felt like scenes plodded along with a lack of purpose and a lack of depth. Even though I already got the third book of this series from the library I most likely will not read it.
4624274573	Not as strong as book 1, but still a good followup with some interesting twists and character drama. This has some pacing issues as it drags in places, and it felt less cohesive than book 1. That said, I still enjoyed it and do intend to continue with the series. If you like The Atlas Six this is definitely worth a read. I received a copy for review from the publisher, all opinions are my own
5023430986	An ARC of this book was provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Well, to say I am disappointed would be the understatement of the year. I loved The Atlas Six, so much so that it was actually one of my best books of 2021. So imagine my shock and sadness when I read this and did not enjoy it...yeah, it was not a fun time for me.The Atlas Paradox sets off to do something, but I'm not really sure what that something is, there really is no direction to the story and unfortunately it shows. The plot is basically non-existent, this book is just full of continuous and messy ramblings among the characters that really lead to nowhere and that take way too many pages which could have been used to actually move the story forward. In this novel the author also tries to introduces new alliances among the characters, but they are so feeble and just overall unbelievable since they are only based on weak necessity and they don't actually serve the purpose of strengthening the characters' relationships. By the end of the book these characters are no better than when we left them in book one, actually I would say they are worse in more ways than one. I'm not really sure, but I believe this series was supposed to only include two books and then they got turned into three, which might explain why this is so bad, it might be a good old case of second-book syndrome commonly known as "the second book sucks and that's because it's just a filler to get to the third book which was originally supposed to be the second". I really hope that is the case, because it would mean that this series could somehow redeem itself in the sequel. For now, this was a no for me and I will definitely read some reviews before trying to read book three.
5085885231	NO ONE TOUCH ME I NEED TO LAY DOWN FOR A MINUTE
4199883901	post-read review:buddy read with dearest ashley! the only reason this book didn't get 5 stars is because i'm petty and there wasn't enough libby OR enough nicolibby to make me happy. and i don't necessarily ship nicolibby romantically (though i wouldn't hate it), but i do require a sufficient amount of nicolibby banter and vibes for me to overlook the fact that i have no idea what i'm reading 70% of the time.much like the atlas six, this book had immense amounts of smart-person physics and magic theories, and a whole lot of pages without a whole lot of plot movement. this is a VERY character-driven series, which comes as no surprise, and it only works because olivie blake's writing is so incredibly stunning. her characters are still so shockingly flawed and realistic that i have insanely strong feelings over them. whether terrifying or brilliant, no character is bland in this series, and i cannot wait to see where every character ends up in the conclusion to this trilogy.and i certainly loved what libby content we did get. (view spoiler)[libby corruption arc for the win! (hide spoiler)]~~~pre-read review: do I remember anything from the first book?? no! but I remember vibes and libbynico so I guess I’ll read #2 for some more of that😍
4369266597	My brain hurts
4061157431	Did I ever doubt Olivie Blake would end this book with a terrible cliffhanger? No my friends, no I did not. AND YET! It still took me by surprise.The whole book builds up to that ending, this thing that happens on the very last page, and I am SO ANGRY THAT THERE ARE NO MORE PAGES! I NEED MORE PAGES OR BOOK THREE RIGHT NOW!!!However, this does feel like a filler book. As much as the first one was character driven, this one is even more so. Quite literally there are only two plot lines that matter, one that we remember from the end of the first book and the other introduced in this one, the rest is just vibes and training.I don't mind that, but The Atlas Paradox didn't manage to fully grip me like The Atlas Six did.I still love all the characters (minus Callum, he'll never win me over at this point), and Libby and Tristan are still my faves. I'm super excited to see where their relationship will go in the third book, and all other relationships too, because you never know who'll end up with who.Bonus points for the gorgeous art!! *Thank you to the publishers and NetGalley for providing me with an e-ARC in exchange for an honest review*
4979163383	3.5⭐ I swear you could ask these people what they ate for lunch and they would go into a complex discussion about how needing to eat shows the fragility of being human, and actually what's the point of eating to live? Then get into a full existencial crisis and universes and whatnot. This book could have been only about Nico and Gideon having fun on their dreams and I would have been perfectly fine with it.Sadly it was not. What was it about then? Well I don't fucking know. Nothing is happening for 90% of the book. You have six medians with the most interesting magical powers and not a single real fight. Just philosophical debates, everyone being so damn cryptic and dramatic, I mean really why are libby and nico the only ones making sense when they talk??So yeah as you can see, as much as I adore Olivie Blake, this book is confusing, even more than the first one. And don't get me started on the relationships. Everyone seems romantically involved with everyone I don't know who to ship anymore, my opinion is changing every few pages. Do they hate each otheror are they in love with each other? The fact that this question could work on every pairing says a lot. Usually I don't mind but I feel like by playing so much with everyone's emotions, no relationship is actually getting developed. Except Nico and Gideon, 2 of these 3 stars are because of them. Now that it's out of the way, I still enjoyed reading it a lot (I know it doesn't sound like it). It kept me on my toes, the characters were all as usual fascinating and thank god for that since most of the story is centered on them (a plot? um not sure I see what that is,maybe you mean everyone feeling lonely and pointless?).So yeah this book has compelling characters, good world building, a great magic systems, it's just missing some actions and coherence. I'm for sure reading the third one, I just hope it will be more entertaining. I also really want someone to give Callum a hug please. "He had told Tristan once that they all had the exact curses they deserved He understood his own, that he felt everything because he wanted terribly. with all of his being, to feel nothing. Because to feel nothing would be to finally no longer feel pain."
4145549061	well, i like it!but.. to be honest, i feel like the plot can be tighter. also, the dialogue has a tendency to be a little tacky (?) but that's just me. i still think it's a good book ofc (god knows how much i was obsessed with the first book before it even blew up lmao) and i will still definitely read the last book bc i am curious to see where it all goes and how it all ends. i like the direction Olivie Blake is going, but i have a strong feeling it could've been better had she distanced herself from the fandom early on (especially on Twitter where I know she is active).
4690186963	4.5/5Przez kolejny rok, piątka wtajemniczonych magów zgłębiała zagadnienia w wybranej z siebie dziedziny, by odznaczyć swój wkład w archiwa prestiżowego Stowarzyszenia Aleksandryjskiego. Poza badaniami takimi jak gdzie kończy się pojęcie "śmierci" czy koncepcji przemierzania czasu i wymiarów, rywalizują nie tylko ze sobą nawzajem ale i swoją władną podświadomością. Powoli do nich dociera, że stali się celem płatnych zabójców, ze względu na ich zdolności.The Atlas Paradox to książka w której bohaterowie są fabułą i akcją samą z sobie. Olivie kolejny raz udowodniła, że napisane przez nią postacie są jak świat - wielowymiarowe, pełne fałd sprzeczności i ostrych kątów ambicji i emocji. Postacie niczym pionki figur ustawiają się na nowe pozycje czekając na kolejne rozdanie i swoje ruchy w walce o władze i moc. Część z nich walczy z poczuciem winy, inne kompleksem Boga, w międzyczasie szukając Libby w snach i przestrzeni.Roszady następują nie tylko w motywacjach bohaterów ale i w ich wzajemnych relacjach romantycznych i przyjacielskich. Niektóre z nich mogą bardzo zaskoczyć ale na tym właśnie polega paradoks tej części.Nie tylko postacie dostały szanse na rozwój ale i wątek intryg pomiędzy Stowarzyszeniem, a ich przeciwników czyli członków Forum. Spisek stawia naszych bohaterów niczym marionetki na nowej planszy gdzie przyjdzie im walczyć o życie.To historia wymagająca od czytelnika emocjonalnego zaangażowania w problematykę bohaterów, w dylematy natury moralności i psychologii ludzkiej, podróży w czasie i zagadnień logiki. Zwrot akcji został ubrany w efekt motyla, który zapiera dech w piersi na końcu tego tomu. Nie mogę doczekać się poznania losów tej historii w ostatnim tomie.
6023020238	Olivie Blake mogłaby napisać przepis na naleśniki i byłoby to najpiękniej napisany przepis jaki czytałam. Nie mogę się doczekać 3 tomu! Autorka przetasowała wszystko, co myślałam, że wiem i teraz już chyba nie wiem nic. 🖤PS. LIBBY KRÓLOWA NA KONIEC 🔥
4255358777	I'm going to come back to this review to dive into spoilers once The Atlas Paradox releases because I have some very specific character decisions and plot points to unpack/ discuss with y'all. But for now I'm going to dive into non-spoilery feelings.After rereading The Atlas Six when it republished under Tor earlier this year, my expectations for this sequel honestly went up quite a ways. They didn't skyrocket by any means, but I took from the changes the notion that Olivie would be better with her world building and magic system explanations. I did a detailed comparison of the indie and Tor version of The Atlas Six, so I saw with my own eyes the distinct difference between the two in terms of world building/ magic. But somehow within The Atlas Paradox all of that progress evaporated like water to the clouds above, and to be perfectly honest, it really upset me. Like this review is more of a mourning review than anything else.Nothing happened within this book. Okay—did conversations happen? Yes. Did time move forward? Yes, occasionally, but it also bored me so much that I took thirty four days to read this book. The only reason I finished this was because I promised to review it before publication, and I couldn't procrastinate any longer. Progress was made but with hardly any context/ elaboration, and decisions were made that only make a little bit of sense. Parisa was one of my favorite characters from the first book, but somehow she loses complete authority over her own storyline. She felt like an extension of Dalton or even Atlas because they drive her to make so many decisions, and I get that characters are affected by those around them, but it didn't feel like her! She paled in comparison to her previous book self because she is dedicated to these men and their antics. Then, Tristan just completely alters course and starts to be chaotic as hell to the point where he's literally gonna burn everything he touches. Callum drinks and sits on a couch 99% of the time. Reina actually does have more authority, but she just is angry 24/7, which didn't feel like her... but maybe that's also because she was extremely underdeveloped in the first book. Libby, what should arguably be the most interesting POV, gave me literal nothing ultimately. The climax of the sequel is basically “she felt this”, “she felt that” on repeat for the entire scene. No, WHAT IS HAPPENING. Tell me the logistics of her surroundings, the feeling of her magic, ANYTHING(!!!) as this integral moment is unfurling… But we get absolutely nothing. Nico is probably the only character that didn't aggravate me to the utmost degree in some way, but he's also so scatterbrained on either Libby or Gideon for the entirety of the book that I cut him some slack due to his stress.Disappointment. That sums up my feelings and the numbness within my chest. This is a dark academia fantasy book at its heart, and while Olivie's writing style of internal thought and dialogue is refreshing for the fantasy genre in particular, there is a point where you need to tone it down to move along the plot. Fantasies need a plot and direction. Not stream of consciousness for 350 pages. Thank you Tor Books for gifting me an ARC. All thoughts and opinions are my own.10/16 Edit: It’s a two for me actually, maybe two and a half. The three is too generous. Man—the underwhelming, disappointing aspects to this book just made me numb. It took me over a month to read this book. I read A Day of Fallen Night in four days. How is this possible? UGH. Im so upset.
4808148230	a flop i’m afraid… the writing was juveline the plot was nonexistent somehow every character except libby became completely irrelevant. SAD!
4588958365	Actual rating 4.5/5 stars. This is the second instalment in The Atlas series.The Atlas Six are still missing one of their number. Five reside inside the society walls and one lingers in the past, lost but not forgotten. New threats have taken the place of those thought vanquished and the freedom of all might means combining their abilities, talents, and academic focus to save their own lives and save the establishment they reside inside of it. Will it consume them before they discover this though?I found this far slower in pace, compared to its predecessor. The focus remained on scientific and magical theories, with the majority of the characters working solely on their own purpose and projects. I found this endlessly fascinating and can only applaud the brain that crafted such a dense focus without it ever become a boring one. It did mean, however, that the pace was very slow and that my attention would slip when I consumed more than a handful of pages in any one sitting. I had such a great time with this novel but the almost-two-months it took me to consume it means I don't think I can award it the full five-stars that the first series instalment achieved.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Olivie Blake, and the publisher, Tor, for this opportunity.
7927833946	i have no idea what’s happening anymore but i think olivie blake doesn’t know either
6166098350	5⭐️ Czy zakończenie mogłoby by wspanialsze? Jest satysfakcjonujące, mroczne i pozostawiające wiele pytań. Potrzebuję trzeciego tomu na wczoraj.Na tym etapie boję się rozwinięcia każdego wątku. 😳
5084616425	#1 The Atlas Six: ★★★★★ | 5 stars*The Atlas Paradox: makes no damn senseMe: ah yes, just what I likeI do understand every single person who said in their reviews that nothing happened in this book. There were a lot of conversations that went in circles and characters who didn't properly communicate with each other, but we did get information about certain things in between about some important world-building points and I really liked that! I will say that the feeling of "I understand all of those words separately" was way stronger in this book than in the first one, though.The multiple perspectives were fun to read through, but I did have an issue with how abrupt some transitions were. There were a lot of dialogues bits and descriptions that stalled or jumped from one place to the next with very little to no build up and I found myself getting a little lost while I read it. Some perspectives were still more likable than others, as well.Regarding all the plot points... there were so many big jumps in logic from characters that made no sense whatsoever past the point of Olivie Blake being like: I need them to get to this conclusion so things can happen. Reina's entire arc here was incredibly annoying to me because of this. The way Libby's situation was handled (or not handled by anyone except Nico and Tristan until the final few chapters) was also a disappointment.But again, due to some revelations about the world-building and the Society and Atlas and Dalton? I did like where things went. I think Blake made some intriguing choices that, hopefully, will pay off in the next book in the most chaotic way possible.
4318736693	Re-read January 2024: Perfection. January 2023: The rare situation where the second book is even better than the first; I am in love with these characters.
4619394986	nicogideon nation make some mf noisei’m undoubtedly too dumb to understand these books but who needs plot when you have a little group of sad repressed gay people
4909751219	En esta segunda parte, nos encontramos con una exploración profundamente filosófica y extremadamente específica de la ética y la moralidad que marcan muchos de los requisitos sobre lo que se supone que es el subgénero de la Academia Oscura. La prosa de Olivie Blake sigue siendo densa, y sus personajes son realmente desordenados, abarcando desde desastres comprensivos hasta idiotas desagradablemente obsesionados consigo mismos. Pero el ritmo de este libro es muchas veces glacial, y a menudo es un ejemplo de del síndrome de la historia intermedia que ocasionalmente lucha por articular claramente la razón de su existencia. Afortunadamente, la novela tiene un final que demuestra que vale la pena el viaje para llegar a él, aunque es probable que algunos lectores se molesten por el tiempo que lleva llegar hasta allí.Esta secuela continúa casi inmediatamente donde nos quedamos en el primer libro. Libby Rhodes ha sido secuestrada por su exnovio viajero en el tiempo, Ezra, y enviada de regreso al pasado, proporcionando una escapatoria conveniente que permite que el resto de la clase de iniciados sobreviva sin matar a uno de ellos para seguir siendo parte del grupo. Pero a medida que los nuevos miembros restantes de la Sociedad de Alejandría descubren que unirse a una sociedad secreta no es exactamente lo que esperaban, desde el extraño ritual de iniciación que les obliga a enfrentarse públicamente a sus propias debilidades, hasta los archivos de la biblioteca que regularmente retienen el conocimiento, ellos tendrán que averiguar qué es exactamente lo que están dispuestos a hacer con este nuevo poder que ejercen, y posiblemente, si deberían tenerlo en primer lugar.Es importante tener en cuenta que sin el propulsor esquema de competencia de asesinato que impulsó gran parte de “Los Seis de Atlas”, y el primer año de los nuevos iniciados en la Sociedad, esta secuela inicialmente lucha por encontrar su propósito. Si bien la búsqueda de Libby es ostensiblemente el principio animador de esta parte de la historia, casi dos tercios de la novela se dedican a lo que podría llamarse cortésmente “mirarse el ombligo”, mientras los cinco miembros restantes luchan contra preocupaciones mucho más personales, desde el cambio de sus sentimientos hacia los demás y sus planes para el futuro, a preguntas existenciales generales sobre el poder y la moralidad.Aún tenemos esas diversas relaciones entre este grupo de bombas de tiempo humanas profundamente rotas, y la tensión dentro del grupo se maneja hábilmente. La telépata Parisa comienza a descubrir que en realidad puede estar comenzando a preocuparse por los demás a pesar de sus mejores esfuerzos por no hacerlo. El émpata Callum desarrolla un problema con la bebida que puede o no estar relacionado con el hecho de que probablemente debería estar muerto. El ilusionista Tristan lucha por comprender la amplitud de sus habilidades, que pueden reescribir la realidad misma. El físico Nico gira en espiral sin la presencia de su constante rival y compañera Libby; y la naturalista Reina comienza a cuestionar si ella podría ser realmente una diosa y se resiente abiertamente a aquellos que parecen darla por sentada. En cuanto a Libby, está atrapada en 1989 y busca desesperadamente un camino a casa, mientras se pregunta hasta dónde está dispuesta a llegar para encontrarlo.A pesar de que la autora revela en este libro algunos secretos bastante clave sobre el pasado de Atlas y sus metas futuras tanto para la Sociedad como para los seis nuevos miembros que ha reclutado, “La Paradoja del Atlas” tiene lugar principalmente en las cabezas de los personajes de la historia. A raíz de su iniciación, cada uno está preocupado por revolcarse en sus propios defectos percibidos o diseccionar maliciosamente las supuestas debilidades de sus compatriotas. Sus historias son menos claustrofóbicas que en el libro anterior, ya que los proyectos de estudio independientes de cada personaje los obligan a confrontar sus propios sistemas de creencias y las decisiones que han tomado hasta el momento. Como resultado, durante la mayor parte de la historia, los personajes siguen sus propios arcos y viajes emocionales en formas que en gran medida están separadas entre sí. La transición de Libby de un desorden ansioso a una fuerza natural literal es la más convincente del libro, pero la de Reina es quizás la más trágica, dado que es un grito para que alguien, cualquiera, la ame mejor.“La Paradoja de Atlas”, una vez más, rota los puntos de vista de todos nuestros personajes principales, agregando un puñado de voces adicionales con breves fragmentos de Ezra, Gideon y un nuevo personaje llamado Belén, una estudiante filipina y activista climática en Los Ángeles de la década de 1980 que termina conociendo a Libby mientras ella está atrapada en el pasado y cuya vida se ve brutalmente alterada por su relación. La autora no tiene miedo de dejar que sus personajes sean narradores tremendamente poco confiables y profundamente desagradables, pidiéndonos que encontremos los aspectos comprensivos de sus historias que aún persisten casi a pesar de ellos mismos.Y hay aquí momentos de emoción encantadora y catarsis real: la relación de Gideon y Nico sigue siendo un punto culminante, al igual que el intento continuo de Tristan de procesar el hecho de que su padre es un monstruo abusivo; el descenso nihilista de Callum a la falta de sentido, y la distensión incómoda que se forma entre Parisa y el propio Atlas es fascinante de ver.En el último tercio del libro, muchas de las tramas cuidadosamente diseñadas y las múltiples líneas de tiempo finalmente comienzan a converger, reuniendo a los personajes de la serie y agregando una sacudida muy necesaria de impulso a los procedimientos en la página. A medida que el grupo se ve obligado a unirse para enfrentar una nueva amenaza, y el plan de Libby para regresar del pasado finalmente comienza a tomar forma, la historia adquiere el aire propulsor de la primera novela y las cosas se disparan hacia otro final de suspenso que promete un final explosivo en la tercera entrega de la trilogía.Sin duda, algunos lectores tendrán problemas con la forma en que gran parte de “La Paradoja de Atlas” dedica tanto tiempo a debates filosóficos, éticos y morales esotéricos o el hecho de que algunos personajes tienen menos que hacer en este libro que en la primera novela. Es una historia lenta, ocasionalmente pesada, que se redime con los giros y vueltas de su último tercio, pero debemos tener cuidado: al igual que los estudiantes en los archivos, tendremos que hacer el trabajo para ganárnoslo.Reseña completa sin spoilers en mi canal de YouTube ➡ Maponto Lee 📚 Link aquí!
4849830583	This book was nothing short of phenomenal. One of my first notes is "babygirl doesn't like soup," and it sets the tone for the whole book; it's less serious than TA6 while still managing to be just as academic. It reminds me of my college honors' courses, where the first one was incredibly difficult to "weed out" the people who really wanted to be here; TA6 was compelling and academic and mysterious, and if readers could get through that and, moreover, enjoy it, then TAP is little treat after little treat. The dynamic between every character shifts entirely in such a gripping way and new relationships form where old ones hang on by a thread. I've said before that Libby is the main character of TA6, and so many of the relationships form and/or evolve with her as a red thread, tying everyone together. In TAP, almost the exact opposite is true; it's the absence of Libby that affects the relationships in unexpected ways. This book is also entirely more romantic than the first. While romance is by no means the underlying theme or plot, almost every POV contained rich scenes that hinted at romantic connections that were either slowly forming or were already burning brightly. I can't say that I didn't absolutely adore it all. Blake's writing requires and deserves thought and time. I think that rushing through her stories can result in skipping over some of the most interesting and unique aspects of her prose, which, in my opinion, is her incredible weaving of academia and science with magic. That said, I really don't think that much happened in this book AT ALL. In the entire thing, there are only about three events that come to mind as being Big. If you're looking for a plot-driven action-packed magic novel, this probably isn't the one for you, but if you're reading this one, and loved the tone, pacing, and character development of the first book, you will NOT be disappointed. I truly cannot stop thinking about this book, and the End? was one of the most captivating moments in the whole book.
4803720119	Star Rating: —> ♾️/5 StarsLong overdue BR with my OTP brilliant BR bestie, and lil sis, Darcey!!! 🤍🤍Well, fuck!RTC
4513304460	“She had been wondering if she owed something to the world—some sense of when to stop, to find her limits—but fuck it. What had the world ever done for her?” I was excited to read this sequel, because even though I wasn’t the biggest fan of the plot in the first book, I loved the characters. However, the plot is even more over the place in this one. Nothing happens. Nothing. And even the dynamics between the characters are too disjointed and chaotic—surprisingly, I found Callum to be the most interesting character in this book. I really liked some quotes and a couple of scenes, but overall this sequel felt flat to me. 0.5. Sacred Hospitality | ★★★ 1. The Atlas Six | ★★★Instagram | Twitter
4804527687	Thank you so much TOR for the advanced copy!!I am literally in love with everything about this book. I gasped about 15 times. In the second installment, the Six face continuous internal and external conflicts, try to cope with everything that they have been through and have learned about the Society, while simultaneously conducting research for the library. Like a true dark academia, there is elaborate commentary on elitism and access to knowledge, as well as exploration on the repercussions of excess power to one’s moral compass. We uncover the one particular character must make a controversial choice…My favorite aspect of this book is learning more about the characters and seeing their relationships develop. There is such a complex, dysfunctional dynamic between them all, and we get to see unlikely pairings come together. Since they all have unique yet complimentary powers, working with one another is inevitable, despite their mostly negative feelings towards one another. I am so emotionally attached to these characters but especially Tristan and Nico.The ending was so abrupt yet satisfying. I cannot wait for the 3rd installment!!!
4616691007	i finished this book ten minutes ago, and i’ve been staring blankly at the walls for ten minutes. just. wow. (I NEED BOOK THREE ASAP)
4861450211	The Atlas Paradox—Olivie Blake’s highly anticipated sequel to her bestselling dark academia, The Atlas Six—is just as deliciously cerebral and unputdownable as it’s predecessor. But now, the stakes have been raised and the initiates are wedged deeper into the murky depths of the Alexandran Society (and Atlas’s plans for them all.) Six magicians become five, with Libby’s whereabouts still unknown. Taking place a year after The Atlas Six’s ending the initiates are now in their second year at the Society. Alliances have shifted and new rivalries begin to form as everyone must now pick a side: to preserve the world as it already is…or to destroy it in the effort to create a better one. As pretty soon truth The Alexandrian Society will be revealed for what it truly is: a secret society with a raw and dangerously world changing power, headed by a man whose plans to change the world could be catastrophic. Full of wit, betrayal and plenty of intrigue, I really enjoyed it! Unlike The Atlas Six, the pace felt more consistent this time around and it was far easier to immerse myself in Blake’s beautifully complex and interwoven narrative which spans two timelines and eight main POVs. I know that may sound a little daunting but, the complexity of each character and how interwoven (and interconnected) even the smallest—and seemingly inconsequential—details were, really makes you forget how many POV there are. And I genuinely loved how seamlessly everything fell into place—Blake’s narrative structure and ability to make every twist and revelation truly unexpected was genuinely impressive. I didn’t know what was gonna happen from one moment to the next and I loved that aspect. I really enjoyed seeing how each character is copes with the events at the end ofThe Atlas Six, which has left almost everyone a little little off centre and out of their comfort zones. But, it does give us the opportunity to get a deeper understanding into some of the more standoffish/ emotionally guarded characters such as Reina and Callum who we didn’t get to see as much of previously. I also loved to delve a little more into Gideon who was briefly introduced in The Atlas Six and really came into his own here—he’s such a cinnamon roll of a character and I hope we get to see even more of him in future. The groups’ alliances and dynamics have changed too, and the effect that has on all of their relationships going forward was really interesting—we also get to see new partnerships/pair ups between the initiates that I definitely hadn’t expected, yet thoroughly enjoyed. I was surprised by Parisa’s slightly less frosty demeanour. Don’t get me wrong, she’s still sharp and manipulative (possibly even more so given her stellar observational skills) but her anti-social edge has softened a little. I was also surprised that the bigger picture still alludes most of the group (I think Parisa and Callum were the only ones who really began to grasp what was happening), though it was interesting to see them all start to suspect Atlas’s machinations. There’s still plenty of mystery to unravel as they continue to search for Libby, delve deeper into the libraries capabilities, as well as trying to steer clear of the people hunting them. But, id say it definitely focuses more on the internal conflicts and really sets everything up for the next instalment. Overall, an entertaining sequel with some of the best morally grey characters I’ve ever read and a few twists I definitely didn’t see coming. Perfect for dark academia lovers, plot twisty fantasy or fans of Naomi Novik. Also a huge thank you to Tor UK and Blackcrow PR for the finished copy.
4613349164	2.75 stars: well, that was a bit underwhelming :/this series is no plot, just vibes, but somehow this book was even less plot. i found some of the dialogue a bit too strange or on the nose this time around (please explain why i’m reading “i hate you (affectionate)” in a book??), and the pacing of this book dragged on. we meandered along the entire time so we could get to the point that sets up for book 3. this sequel felt like a torturous bridge between the other two books in the trilogy - torturous because i was so bored that i thought it’d never end!i did however like seeing different combinations of characters interact that previously had limited reason to do so. although, i hated this one sided argument between reina and nico that stretched the entire book. nico was constantly confused and trying to get reina to voice why she was mad with no resolution.the academic discussions that fit well in the first book seemed to just fill up the bulk of this book and were vague enough that i struggled to see the relevance of most of them. if you didn’t like that aspect in book 1, you’ll DEFINITELY hate it in book 2. once again, it significantly slowed down the pace. as someone who liked the first book, i really hope olivie blake can turn this series around in book 3, and that this sequel was just a sacrifice to set up for the epic finale.
4922639506	Ptdr 2 mois et demi pour lire un livre 😂 Trop triste que le kohlanta du 1 se soit pas transformé en un DALS ou autre truc plus intéressant que ça…Callum et Reina m’ont semblé carrément inutiles dans celui là, Libby bah ma reuss clairement t’aurais dû être plus là, Nico et Tristou je voulais une bromance et Parisa tu tapes toujours des actions aussi douteuses. Le 1 était vachement mieux construit, j’ai trouvé que ça s’est complètement essoufflé là. En résumé : me demandez pas des détails de ce qui s’est passé, à part un bal et des sessions de test de divergente #faisfaceataplusgrandepeur j’ai R suivi 😂
5911563699	olivie blake is a literary genius… that’s it, that’s the tweet. 4.75!! you either love and appreciate the intricacies of her worlds, characters, character relationship, story telling or you can’t get into it. but like ‘the girls that get it GET IT’
4600157264	edit – here's my review: https://www.instagram.com/p/CksyQ37rU... my book of the year. my joy.
4785311239	This book is about six people who SWEAR they’re not in love. Source: Trust me bro.Pretty heavy SPOILERS. This is pretty much just me banging my head repeatedly against a wall and gasping incoherently into the void:Let me begin by stating that I am a Rhodes groupie, I’m pro-Libby/Tristan, and I’m a Callum sympathizer. That's where I stand and I will go down with this ship. This book has one of those plots where 27 things could be happening at any one moment, and yet somehow nothing is ever accomplished. I enjoyed reading this book in the same way that people enjoy drinking soda water. I won’t explain my comparison, just know that it is profound.CORE SIXLibby - What I was looking forward to most in this book was Libby’s character growth. I was ready for some villain origin, female rage, batshit crazy nonsense. And while I got it- it really was not to the extent that I hoped. However, her later chapters were some of the best in the entire book, so I am hoping she’s more of a grower than a shower. The extreme amount of FOMO that I felt for her in this book though. I am not part of the Nico/Libby readers, they had zero chemistry, but I thought that Nico would at least suffer a little or something. His rivalry with her is one of the most consistent things in his life. Can you be a fucking man and die.It was also very interesting reading about how the five interacted without her there. Almost every POV, every chapter had some reference to Libby. They would compare their actions and motivations to what Libby would have done, I felt her absence in their circle."Libs. Are you hungry?”Her hand shot out to close around her ex-boyfriend’s throat. “Yeah. Starved.””Tristan - This man is my baby daddy. I would commit a lot of crimes for Tristan. Such a fucking underdog. And he’s just so fucking angry all the time.His relationship with Callum is one of my favorite things about these books. They’re so weird. So much is said, so much is not said. I honestly cannot tell either of their intentions towards each other, but I know for sure: Callum would kill Tristan so that no one else could have him. His relationship with Libby is my second favorite thing about these books. They’re such an odd duo, but they make so much sense to me. Way more sense than Libby/Nico. Reading Tristan’s POV, his thoughts about Libby? “Good girl, Rhodes,” he rasped. “Well done.”Nico - Will someone gag this man? I did not realize how annoying I found Nico until I read this book. How many passages of groaning and gripping about your pet fish do I have to read until you realize you are in love with him? Can we fucking focus, please?After reading other reviews, I was surprised to find out how many people don’t like Nico/Gideon. I like them together simply because I need Nico to stay the FUCK away from Libby. When I saw speculation for Nico/Gideon/Libby I nearly passed away.Callum- This man fully spiraled this book. It was almost painful watching him interact with everyone around him. This man clearly had a drinking problem and everyone around him just kind of skittered away from it, Also, what fucking research did this man actually submit to the archives. I would like a copy. I love Callum, but there is no way this man submitted any goddamn research.His alliance with Reina was, I’m pretty sure, the reason that this book was marketed as “new unlikely alliances”. And it’s true, This is an unlikely alliance. It was fucking weird. I’m would literally read them have a conversation and wonder what on earth they talk about off the page. It’s like when I found out that Kylie Jenner and Timothee Chalamet were together. Just- what?And this man fully feeding into her delusions? It’s like two people desperate for a friend, find each other and decide to stay together because- “at least they won’t cheat because they’re ugly and no one fucking likes them”.Parisa - This bitch was making moves. I mean, when is she not making moves. The Rizzler herself.Reina - She had some of the worst lines in this entire book. Just pure cringe. The whole “god” thing? I would have found it interesting if it was happening to literally any other character. But no, it was Reina, scrambling to justify her existence. This chick goes on and on about how she cares for no one, how she doesn’t feel anything for anyone, how she’s above relationships. It was one of the most annoying, long-winded internal monologues I have had the displeasure of reading. RANDO SIDE CHARACTERSAtlas - This man. He had freaking bangers of lines. I have no idea why Ezra even attempted speaking with him. Atlas is the queen of sassy comebacks for real. Dalton - This man has a big dick. And I know Parisa can corroborate. Reading his spiral, his corruption, was EVERYTHING.Ezra - Someone come get their child. This man put on a fancy hat and started acting like a hero. Gideon - This fucking fish. Was SO relevant. I can’t explain my irrational hatred of this man. I think it stems from my irrational hatred of Nico. But GOD, the fury that I felt when I opened this book and the first chapter was in Gideon’s POV. I had to set the book down for four months. I actually really like Gideon. I like his power and I find his story so interesting. What I hate is the intersectionality of Gideon and Nico. These two have such unhealthy codependent relationship. They’re both aware of everything that they do to each and they just accept it. And that last chapter? Just GAG ME.
6015663232	UWIELBIAM PIÓRO BLAKEprzeczytam wszystko co ta kobieta napisze sposób w jaki kreuje bohaterów jest uzależniający czekam na 3 tom bo jestem ciekawa czy moje shipy się ziszczą😩🙏
6883527510	** spoiler alert ** 1 / 5 ✰honestly, this series just bores me to death. i was never attached to the atlas six, but since i already read the first book, i committed myself to finishing the series. i wasn’t looking forward to reading this book—i knew i wouldn’t want to read it—but i did it anyway. the plot was kind of there, but it was also so confusing that it just wasn’t worth it. i ended up skimming most of the book because i just wanted it over with. even at 20% through the book, i had lost motivation to finish it. it’s a miracle that i did actually get through it. it’s not that there wasn’t anything happening—there was so much happening all of the time—but it was all just uninteresting and not exciting. nothing was connected and there were too many moments where i would be too confused to care.the characters, while complex, are just not interesting enough to get attached to them. i can understand why someone would like them, but i never saw the appeal personally for me. this whole book was just of them existing. the only characters that were remotely interesting to me was nico and libby. truly, i had wanted them together since the beginning. they make a powerful duo and it would have been satisfying to see them get together, but i didn’t mind the turn their relationships took. the fact that they both ended up in gay relationships are amazing. i am loving the gideon and nico dynamic and relationship. i called it from day one that they would end up together. their kiss: amazing. i didn’t expect libby to have a sapphic relationship with someone, but they were interesting. i just feel bad for belen for having given up everything for an eventual betrayal and death. belen deserved better, but they were cute while they lasted.
5297999273	"¿Qué era la intimidad sino la memorización de sus pensamientos, sus sueños, sus miedos?"(p. 187).Esta tiene que ser la historia con los personajes más caóticos que he leído jamás... Y en lo absoluto me arrepiento de haberlos conocido.Esta secuela es todo un viaje. Uno que te invita a ver el mundo a través de personajes complejos; individuos grises cuya ambición no solo resulta abrumadora, sino también absolutamente fascinante de leer.Personajes que quizás no estuvieron tan desarrollados en Los Seis de Atlas, tienen ahora mucha más presencia en la historia, dando lugar a nuevas alianzas inesperadas, así como a revelaciones que los sorprenderán inmensamente.La única razón por la que este libro no se llevó 5⭐ fue por lo lento que fue al principio. Pero una vez que la historia arranca, no para hasta el final. Es espectacular. Dark Academia at its finest.Definitivamente un libro que voy a estar comentando por mucho tiempo."Una vez le había contado a Tristan que todos tenían exactamente las maldiciones que merecían. Él entendía la suya, sentirlo todo porque deseaba con todo su ser no senti nada. Porque no sentir nada supondría no volver a sentir dolor por fin" (p. 163)".
4675788179	nicogideon rights >> rtc? maybe? i don’t know if i care enough to write one
6163575435	Following the events of The Atlas Six, five out of six magicians are now the new initiates of the Alexandrian Society, while the sixth remains nowhere to be found.Seemingly, this was to prevent the fact the Atlas Six comprise being one-sixth of a dystopian nuclear code.The five at the Library seem to be realising there is a sentiment being that is tracking their behaviour and patterns and blocking certain pursuits and research. The archives appear to feeding off them, their energy, their emotions, their energy, their physicality. They were all slightly different without Libby Rhodes. Without them realizing it, she had established herself as the "but" in their collective conscience, their measure of mo-rality. .. The effects of her displacement from their anatomy as a group seemed imperceptibly compounding, like an infection that went undiagnosed.At the same time, Ezra creates a coalition selected to secure the common goal to bring down the Sociery and replace it with something more widely distributed; something secretive and cloak-and-dagger that only served despots seeking to rule the world.I can understand why this has such decisive ratings. It does take a lot more brain power and rereading to fully grasp and appreciate Blake’s writing and story. Sometimes I understand this use of pretentiousness-seeming language frustrates people, but I love how Blake constructs words. She can see into people’s souls and write the complexities of humans and their relationships and emotions and tragedies so beautifully. It doesn’t help that the perspective switches continuously without notice or signal multiple times in one scene and it can take some time to acclimatise yourself to this sort of character jumping. However, I like how Blake used it to lay the characters off each other. Especially with cast that includes empaths and telepaths. Blake turns characters on their head as they are revealed more to both the readers and themselves. It’s a joint discovery of self, morality, and aspiration. ”It's funny," Nico said. "This library. Everything we can have.""Yes," said Parisa."It's everything until it's nothing," Nico said. By which he meant: Why had he given everything up when he could have stayed in one place and never known how much he didn't know?Again, this has proved to me I love Olivie Blake’s writing. I would love to see her notes app on her phone. Bookstagram
7987324894	Jest w tych postaciach coś co sprawia, że nawet jak im nie kibicuje i życzę wszystkiego najgorszego to i tak są interesujące. Callum z najbardziej antypatyczenj stał się ulubieńcem, Gideon z dziecka specjalnej troski stał sie sprawnym graczem, wątek Libby, której kibicuje od poczatku, był strasznie frustrujacy i za każdym razem na końcu jej rozdziału sprawdzałam, czy już wróciła. Bohaterowie to jest ogromny walor tej książki. Każdy coś wnosi, ale tylko w przypadku kilku zmartwiłabym sie, gdyby zostali wyeliminowani.Fabuła nie stoi tu akcją (a była okazja ku temu, np na balu, by sobie spektakularnie postrzelać, albo zeby diva Callum wywołal jakis skandal), za to podoba mi sie, że w tym świecie magia ma naprawdę duży wpływ na rzeczywistość i nie jest tylko sztuką dla sztuki. Każdy Medej wysysa swoją specjalizacje do maksimum, a autorka wymyśla dla danego zagadnienia kolejne stopnie wtajemniczenia. Przed przeczytaniem trzeciego tomu najbardziej ciekawi mnie dlaczego ma on tak niskie oceny.
5074130626	Wow, phew, I received way too much displeasure from consuming this piece of media. Where is the plot? Where is the message without all the meaningless discussions that happened throughout the story? None of the endless conversations actually lead to any revelations. Where is major character development (which is a valid question for a character-driven book)...The thing that I liked though was the tiny introduction that included a little recap of what happened in the first book "The Atlas Six" to remind the reader. It feels like reading an index, which makes sense when you consider that this is a dark academia vibes sort of book, so that was a detail that I thought was well though through (in case that was actually intention and the idea of the author lol).P.S. (view spoiler)[ What is this weirdest and most random revelation about Reina who plans to suddenly become a god while we haven't heard from her during almost 100 pages??? It felt like girl has went through all stages of insanity in the meanwhile LMAO. (hide spoiler)]
4285780589	OKAY AH I LOVED THIS SO SO MUCH. i was insanely obsessed with the atlas six & had been waiting for this sequel for so long & my expectations were MET AND EXCEEDED. i’ve always loved the academic vibe in this series & all the scientific concepts it discusses & weaves into the fantasy elements. it was interesting to get back to these characters 1) because i love them so much and as deeply fascinated by them2) because of the way the first book left off. i wasn’t quite sure where we would go from there. since this took place in their research year, i loved how we got to see what they were interested in & i feel like it fleshed out the characters more to see their motivations & world views. and we also got to see some interesting allies be paired up…this book definitely answered a lot of questions i had from the previous book & also left me with about a million new ones. especially in the last 50ish pages i was kind of just in a permanent state of ??????? but in a good way. it was maybe a little slow in the beginning but i really didn’t mind because i love these characters & olivie’s writing so much. I NEED THE THIRD BOOK RIGHT NOW THO…THAT ENDING WAS……..
5640061477	when the alexandrian society is revealed to be the secret society it is led by a singular man in the process of changing life as we know it, our six magicians are forced to pick a side: to either preserve the world they know or destroy it. sounds promising, right? unfortunately, second-book syndrome is real and this series fell victim to it. where was the originality to the atlas six? where was the in-depth exploration of academia? where was the development? instead of furthering the plot, it felt as if olivie blake had run out of what she wanted to say. chapters felt like fillers, characters felt underdeveloped and the fluidity of the pre-established relationships present within the first book felt forgotten. bland. boring. the only plot line that gained any positive reaction from me was libby’s. here for her corruption arc. here for a better third and final book also.
