356472325	This is the second Tana French novel I've read in just over a week and I have to say I'm rapidly becoming a big fan. The Likeness is an excellent story that is about psychology at least as much as (if not more than) it is about a murder mystery. Like In The Woods, the book's greatest weakness is also perhaps its greatest strength: the comprehensive portrait of the characters and their personalities.French makes certain you know your narrator almost as well as you know yourself. Their habits, fears, background, influences and desires are gradually laid out before you as the story progresses. And despite some of the far-fetched plot elements, Cassie Maddox and her life seemed very real to me. But it's not just the main character who gets such treatment - French builds up a detailed personality for everyone she introduces to make them seem like not just an accessory to the plot, but a person with thoughts, feelings and a past. It's a technique carried out by a number of authors to varying degrees of success but French's novels are my personal favourite so far. It only becomes a weakness when the plot stalls so we can explore the characters and I'm longing to know where the mystery will go next.The actual idea proposed by French here is rather ludicrous. A girl looking exactly like Detective Cassie Maddox turns up dead. And not only that, but the girl has assumed the fake identity which Cassie had played the part of a few years previously. Coincidences like this surely do not actually happen. Cassie then goes undercover as the girl - Lexie Madison - into the home she shares with four other students and attempts to find clues that will lead the police towards her killer. Somehow, however, it doesn't seem to matter that the idea is totally unbelievable, Cassie in herself is convincing enough to carry this story. We are soon dragged into a The Secret History-type set-up where we are introduced to an isolated circle of intelligent and weird students. In my opinion, though, I found these characters and the story a lot more entertaining and realistic than those in The Secret History. Perhaps because their obsessions were with living simply and each other rather than a subject. It becomes clear straight away that something is not quite right in the house and that there are a number of secrets being kept. But does this mean one of them is the killer?Again French shows the mental impact of an investigation on her characters. Cassie finds herself becoming increasingly involved on a very personal level and discovers just how hard it is to become someone without feeling a certain attachment to their life and friends. In the end, even Cassie's loyalties to the police force are tested - what if she could have what she's always wanted by being Lexie Madison? A family, people who love her, a sense of security... would she want to give that up and go back to the stresses of her job?One last note: Sam. Look, you're adorable and everything and I really don't want to see you get hurt... but I'm holding out for Cassie and Rob. That's all I have to say to you. Please, Ms French?
894210166	What the heck is going on? Book One was really good!693 pages in this book and at least 593 of them were the biggest load of waffle I've ever read! So, going against most other reviews, this book was so yawn making boring, I just couldn’t get to the end quick enough to get it over with.Tana French's first novel In The Woods was a good crime novel, this was not even in the same league, in fact I lost hope that it was a crime novel at all really. It's wordy, very wordy, her prose is spectacular at times but why oh why does this book have to drag out paragraphs of mindless waffle?The plot is barely believable, a female detective looks so much like a dead girl that she slips into the dead girls life and home and nobody bats an eyelid? Pfft, as if that's going to happen, why was that even chosen as the storyline? I don't get it. Tana French is (or was) a good writer so why? This really baffled me.I did a lot of eye rolling reading this and wondering what was wrong with me for not loving this like most others who have reviewed it. It was too long, particularly as most of it is pretty much about nothing. It took 100 pages for Detective Maddox to decide to go undercover or not. Please don't insult the reader, the whole book is based on her being this undercover doppelgänger so we KNEW she was going to do it. Sheesh. 🙄 And the ending? Let's not go there, I've wasted too much time already on this book and this short review, there are better books to conquer.I want the hours of my life back please, very disappointing after enjoying her first novel, certainly not rushing for the next unfortunately. Thanks so much for reading my review! If you’d like to connect you can follow me or please send me a friend request. 🐱I love to read other reviews and talk about books we are reading.If you are an Author and you’d like me to consider reading and reviewing your book please just message me.
2273478316	5 million starsThe Likeness is an extraordinary novel. It is one of the 2-3 best books I have ever read. After reading just two Dublin Murder Squad books this month, I have made a spot for Tana French as one of my 3 all time favorite authors. She is a brilliant writer, and in my opinion has penned the quintessential psychological thriller with The Likeness. How refreshing not to have the plot spotlighted on a kidnapped child, amnesia, or spouse-beating. This story focuses on the killing of a young woman and the cat and mouse games between the victim’s four housemates and an uncover detective who has moved into the house. The detective, Cassie Maddox, who bears an uncanny likeness to the victim, also is not being completely honest with her superior. The mind games are not only intriguing, but tension-filled with a gradual buildup of almost unbearable pressure as the story progresses. I had no idea where the author was taking us on this journey and loved the total unpredictability of the story. Every sentence holds substance. Readers who skim through novels are going to be at a disadvantage. There were several times when I went back to reread a paragraph or even a page to make sure I had squeezed all the juice out of that passage. This tale is not for action fans that want the facts, just the facts, bam bam bam. This is for those who are not in a hurry and love to be slowly seduced by the gradual rise of dread and trepidation. The ending is well done and the wrapup is leisurely and detailed, just the way I like it.Though the mystery is superb, what I loved most was the masterful character study of Cassie Maddox. We are allowed wide-open access to Cassie’s thoughts and emotions. Underlying this is the unparalleled consummate writing style of Ms. French. Cassie is faced with countless crossroads during the investigation, many of which require split second decisions. Watching this process play out time and again was spellbinding. Cassie was relatively unscarred prior to coming to Dublin except for the unfortunate early deaths of her beloved parents, but during In the Woods and The Likeness she was battered emotionally. I found it nail-biting to see if she could hang on long enough to get the job done. Some reviewers have downrated The Likeness because the reader must be willing to go with a couple of improbable circumstances necessary for the premise. I recognized these issues, but was fortunate to be able to run with them and become totally captivated by the story. The Dublin Murder Squad novels have quickly become one of my 3-4 most loved series. Though the The Likeness can be read as a stand alone, with Ms. French feeding back data from In the Woods on an as-needed basis, I strongly recommend In the Woods be read first in order to preserve the total richness of The Likeness. Don’t miss this remarkable collection.
89630225	okay, i enjoyed this tana french book much more than the first one. and against all odds; the premise of this book is so staggeringly unbelievable.check it out: so there's a murrrrrder, and the body is that of a young woman who looks just like detective cassie maddox! awesome! so why doesn't she just pretend to be the murdered girl, slip unnoticed into her life, and take it from there? because, dummy, her "life" is made up solely of a group of four other insular postgrad nerds who reside in a huge crumbling house together, and live only for each other without any boundary issues, and with the fiercely intense loyalty that's mostly only seen in the conjoined, and wouldn't they notice the difference?but she's a really good undercover police detective, so...i don't care, it works, it's fun. and it comes closer to secret history than most others claiming to be the same, but has the humility not to broadcast it on the jacket. rewriting secret history has become a goal for suspense writers everywhere, and anytime anyone writes a book featuring intelligent young people who share secrets and there is a murder, the great donna tartt is invoked. and i remember really liking secret history, so i always read the impostors. this one, for all its necessary suspensions of disbelief, is not a bad comparison. in fact, this reminded me of the house at midnight, just in the characters' dynamics,and the house, of course, and that was one of the better "tartty" books i have read. there are huge logic gaps and "come on!" moments, but it is a quick read and she writes claustrophobic tension very well. i had some time to kill before work yesterday and was cold and poor, so i just took the 7 train alll the way out and then alll the way back to read this - it's completely engrossing, as long as you suppress your protests.hiding outjust one of the guysdesperately seeking susantootsiesoul manweekend at bernie'sin the 80's these secret-identity movies were ubiquitous. they all involved the seemingly implausible plot of being able to fool others into believing you were a different age, gender, race, or that you were, you know, alive. and if we could believe it in the 80's we can believe it now. because let's face it, dustin hoffman wasn't fooling anyone.i always thought that tana french would be more psychologically complicated literary fiction than a genre-book. blame it on the trade paperback format or the awards or the refined cover art; as opposed to the more cartoony norm:(do not click to look inside)(almost forgot about this one - it may be my favorite. i wish it was bigger (like all girls) because mrs. jeffries hiding is pretty funny/creepy)but it's a mystery novel, pure and simple; suspects "confess" in long speeches, every glance can be analyzed and stripped of its meaning, detectives pull out all the interrogation clichés and there's nothing wrong with that, because it is good old fashioned leisure reading. and that's the genius of its presentation, and what i have learned from the identity-movies of the 80's. if this book ever witnessed a crime, it could just be put into witness protection program with the other trade paperbacks in the general fiction/literature section, and be more or less undetectable.unless i was on the case...come to my blog!
752749554	if you like novels with dark academia vibes and crime as a genre, then this is the perfect book for you. its an undercover investigation by way of ‘the secret history’ and ‘if we were villains.’ and if that doesnt sell you, then i dont know what else will. lol.TF has once again proven she is the master at a slow build mystery. while the primary focus is on the crime and finding the culprit, there is also a precise character study. there is so much depth and meaning behind each of the characters, its really quite remarkable. i know many readers will find this to be a bit slow and dense, especially if they are used to fast-paced thrillers. but this is a story that creeps up on you as you cautiously follow the trail of breadcrumbs. which is just how i like my crime stories surrounding a seemingly impenetrable group of aloof university students. ↠ 4.5 stars
3237739048	This book absolutely changed me as a person. The Likeness follows Cassie Maddox, an Irish detective. She's assigned to solve the murder of a woman using her old undercover identity… and goes undercover as the woman herself. It’s been such a long time since I read a detective novel that had me so thoroughly engaged from the beginning and so invested. This book was claustrophobic, and got inside my skin —it made me feel as though I were as trapped as Cassie. Tana French is an expert at placing clues and making even red herrings feel like a part of the story—even the red herrings always, always always play a part in the eventual reveal. Indeed, these novels never succeed off one big twist, it’s more the details. SPOILER: (view spoiler)[I was pretty sure I knew my suspect pool but little twists like the how and why...the Rafe and Justin thing... RAFE BEING THE ******... Abby being in love with Daniel... holy shit bro I’m screaming. also the ending is all very Murder on the Orient Express and that slaps. (hide spoiler)] What works so well about The Likeness is that it gets you to invest in characters you must also suspect—gets you invested in the idea that the perpetrator was not a certain character, or group of characters. You sympathize with those you suspect. You sense the true stakes of this death having occurred. SPOILER: (view spoiler)[What messed me up the most about this novel is how invested I, too, was in this little family. I longed to be a part of this sort of makeshift home. I wanted them to succeed so bad, and it is this that makes the reveal of the motive so strong; you almost understand, that shock and betrayal that they felt. When the reveal finally came as to who did the final murder, and then in the same line the baby, I was absolutely losing it on my audiobook. (hide spoiler)] This ending is unsatisfying too, in its own ways, but it works because 1. you get the clear answers you want, and are only left with new questions rather than old ones 2. (view spoiler)[there isn’t a clear villain in the same way as in In the Woods, so the lack of justice is an open question rather than just upsetting (hide spoiler)] and 3. it offers such a strong sense of growth in Cassie, whom I love so much. It is so deeply satisfying to see Cassie learn to put trust in other people as the novel progresses. It's been two years since I read this novel, and I can honestly say it's stuck with me like few I've read. I think this is one of my favorite suspense novels ever written.Dublin Murder Squad: 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 [TK] | 6Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | About |
1541036443	4.5 stars"… Lexie Madison developed out of nothing like a Polaroid, she curled off the page and hung in the air like incense smoke, a girl with my face and a life from a half-forgotten dream."Four years ago, Detective Cassie Maddox went undercover as Lexie Madison, an identity she concocted with Detective Frank Mackey. But that case is long over, and Lexie Madison should no longer exist… until she mysteriously appears once again as a dead body found in an old abandoned cottage. The fact that this dead woman carries the identity of Lexie Madison is perplexing enough, but what is terribly eerie is that she has an uncanny likeness to Detective Maddox. Now Frank Mackey is teaming up with Detective Sam O’Neill from the murder squad, much to Sam’s irritation, and proposes the perfect plan to crack the case. Not able to resist the thrill of an undercover assignment after serving a comparatively tedious assignment in Domestic Violence, Cassie rises to Frank’s challenge. Gosh, Tana French really knows how to write! Of course, I immediately needed to find out how on earth the team was going to pull this one off?! It seemed a very risky scheme to me, and admittedly a bit farfetched. Well, implausibility be damned! I went along for the ride. The atmosphere is tense; the psychology of the characters is riveting. French gets right into the head of her narrator, Cassie, and allows the reader to totally grasp her every fear, desire, strength, weakness, and motivation. You’ll know her almost as well as you know yourself… maybe more. It made me crazy (in a good way) that Cassie could so easily slip into this role once again; to so seamlessly take on the identity of another person and to nearly become that person inside and out. I love the way she described what it’s like to work undercover. "… the taste of undercover on my tongue again, the brush of it down the little hairs on my arms. I’d thought I remembered what it was like, every detail, but I’d been wrong: memories are nothing, soft as gauze against the ruthless razor-fineness of that edge, beautiful and lethal, one tiny slip and it’ll slice to the bone."I loved Whitethorn House, the sinister little back lanes, and the scuttling of small animals that made me want to warn Cassie to stay alert! The inhabitants of Whitethorn House with their secrets, their constant companionship and mystifying intimacy intrigued me to say the least. Who are these people? Where is the killer? I really was on edge wondering if the perpetrator was still nearby and lurking in the darkness of the small, sullen community of Glenskehy. The folks of this place did not take kindly to strangers at all, and a death of one of their own in the distant past still inflamed many of the residents. I won’t get into any more details; you have to read this book yourself! Not just an ordinary, psychological thriller, The Likeness has great literary merit as well. Tana French is a brilliant writer and is well attuned to all the subtleties of human behavior. I’ve read this and the first in the series and should note that it’s not completely necessary to read them in order. This would work completely fine as a stand-alone. It’s not a page-turner in the sense that there is action on every page, not even necessarily in every chapter. However, if you are like me and crave a story that really explores the depths of its characters and creates a feeling of such palpable tension and creeping suspense, then this book and this series is exactly what you need. I’m docking just half a star for the wee bit of implausibility regarding the premise of the plot, but don’t let that keep you from reading a fantastic book! As for me, I'm planning to read the entire series :)
2619506507	This isn’t exactly a sequel but it is helpful to have read the first book in the series. The premise is outlandish and completely unbelievable. I decided to just go with it. I was rewarded with richly drawn characters reminiscent of The Secret History. French’s writing and understanding of the human psyche is always superb and this was not an exception. If you can get past the idea of a doppelganger being inserted into household of close friends without being recognized as an imposter, you’ll enjoy it. If that idea is too outrageous for you, give this a pass.
1477767068	Yep, Tana French has succeeded in doing it yet again - writing a fantastic book which kept me on the edge of my seat from the very first to the very last page.After finishing a book, I usually juxtapose four important elements before deciding on a specific rating: The characterization, the plot, the writing and the atmosphere. Almost never do I feel like all four of those elements have been realized to perfection by the author (as much as I hate to consider something as 'perfect'), but The Likeness is one of those books. I have nothing to criticize here at all. If you know my reviews, you know that this happens almost never, so consider this review to be a huge recommendation for Tana French's amazing mystery series.→ The Plot Set after In the Woods, the first book in the Dublin Murder Squad series, this book focuses on detective Cassie Maddox, who was the best friend of Rob Ryan, the narrator of the first book. Told through her first-person point of view, The Likeness opens with the corpse of a woman called Lexie Madison being found who looks exactly like Cassie. Cassie's own past is soon going to be involved as Lexie Madison was an alias Cassie has used in an undercover investigation some years ago. In order to discover who has brutally murdered Lexie Madison, Cassie slips into the role of her doppelganger and takes over her life to find out as much as possible about the four mysterious friends Lexie lived with. At that moment, Cassie knows that she has entered a dangerous game, but she wouldn't think that this game turns out to change her life forever.As unlikely and randomly as this book's premise sounds, it immediately caught my interest and had me engaged until I turned to the last page. Twists and turns appeared around every corner, yet the book remained calm and never rushed, allowed me to sympathize with each and every one of the characters involved. The plot is so complex that it is impossible to read this book en passant - and quite a few readers seemed to criticize the premise, not without reason. How likely is it to find a doppelganger you have never met before and to be able to take over his life without anyone noticing? It is not like this happens all the time. But then, fantasy novels are just as unbelievable because they also play with the reader's imagination. For me, authenticity doesn't emerge out of the likelihood of certain scenarios, but out of the author's ability to make me believe what happened, to make me feel like this could have happened in reality.And Tana French did make me believe.→ The Characters We have eight main characters in this book, every one of them interesting and complex in their own right. Cassie Maddox' boyfriend Sam O'Neill who struggles with accepting Cassie's undercover role; her wayward and demanding, yet clever superior Frank Mackey; the killed Lexie who has been fully fleshed out as a character in the course of the novel (something I admire the author for); and Lexie's four friends - Abby, Rafe, Justin and Daniel -, maybe the most important addition to the cast of characters in this novel. Living in an old house full of tradition, those four friends were connected by their pasts and their social strugglings, each of them accompanied by their own secrets. As mysterious as they appear to be in the beginning, Tana French presses every button to develop believable, interesting characters out of all of them, so much that at one point I didn't want this book to end anymore.→ The Writing Tana French is an amazing writer, I never doubted that after In the Woods, but with this book, she totally convinced me that her thrillers are no ordinary thrillers. They could, in my opinion, be classified as great literature, considering her talents to approach her characters and introduce and develop them with so much depth. Perhaps the most significant topic this novel deals with is the struggles Cassie endures while slipping into Lexie's life. Where does the Cassie's character end, and where does Lexie's character begin? A question Cassie has to face when she realizes how interesting Lexie's life was in comparison to her own, how easy it is to be Lexie, how endearing her friendships to Abby, Rafe, Justin and Daniel are.But that is not everything this novel is composed of. Prominently referred to is the Irish history, a past which surely could not turn into a motivation for brutality and violence - or could it? Tana French does not back away from exploring themes like loneliness, isolation, obsession, identity struggles and suppression. And all of those themes are interconnected in such an entertaining way that I was fascinated by it with every new page.→ The Atmosphere Set in a little village in Ireland, the book introduces us to a rather dark atmosphere, with the mysterious house gaining center stage soon. Tana French seems to like letting her characters wander off into the forest in the darkness of night, even more frequently here than in In the Woods. This book is not as spine-tingling as the first novel in the series, partly because it is rather slow-paced without ever becoming boring, but you can still expect some unsettling and disturbing moments which will leave you questioning the extent of humanity.The book itself is quite long (466 pages according to Goodreads, but my Hardcover edition was 778 pages long). It is true that some parts of it could have been shortened. But sometimes my reading soul is overpowered by guilty pleasure, and that's exactly why I didn't mind the length and didn't even want this novel to end.Faithful Place, make an effort. My expectations are high.In the end, I'd like to mention that this book spoils some of the events of In the Woods. While The Likeness could be read on its own, I recommend beginning with the first book to be able to capture the interesting character development and a lot of references made in this novel.A book about transformation, about human failure, about victims turning to perpetrators and culprits becoming victims. As disturbing as parts of it were ... I loved every single moment of it.
119072024	Like a great many other people, I thoroughly enjoyed Tana French's debut novel, In the Woods, and I was eagerly anticipating the opportunity to finally get to her second book, The Likeness: A Novel. I find, though, that after finishing it, I have very mixed feelings about it.The book features Dublin Detective Cassie Maddox who returns from "In the Woods." After a particularly brutal murder case, Cassie has transferred out of the Murder Squad and is now working in Domestic Violence. But she is called to the scene of a murder when detectives discover a victim who could be Cassie's identical twin. If that weren't enough, the victim is also carrying ID indicating that she is Lexie Madison, an identity that Cassie created and used when she was formerly working undercover.The victim was a Trinity College graduate student living in an isolated rural house with four other graduate students. There is precious little evidence at the scene, and so Cassie's former boss in the undercover unit, Frank Mackey, conceives of a plan in which the housemates will be told that the victim, Lexie, was wounded but not killed. After a week in which the victim is allegedly being treated in the hospital, Cassie will assume the dead woman's identity, move back into the house and see what evidence she can gather about the murder from within. Not only that, but Cassie will also take over the victim's graduate studies and the students that she was tutoring.All crime novels require that the reader suspend disbelief, at least to some extent, but this one requires a greater leap than most. It's hard to get your head around the fact that in only a week's time, and with only a brief video to study along with interviews of the housemates conducted by other detectives, Cassie could step into this woman's life, living with people that Lexie had known intimately, and that no one is going to suspect the substitution. And neither will the woman's professors and students. Somehow Cassie has also absorbed enough of the subject matter that she can pick up Lexie's professional life as well.If you can get beyond that--and I managed to do so for a while--this is an absolutely engrossing book. French writes beautifully and the strength of the book lies in the characters that she has created and in the world of the Irish culture and countryside that she portrays. And even more interesting than the progress of the investigation itself is watching the effect of the impersonation on Cassie who begins to lose herself as she grows more deeply attached to Lexie's life and the people who surrounded her.Ultimately the book lost me about two-thirds of the way through when one of the characters behaved so irrationally--at least to my mind--that I just couldn't buy into it anymore. Still, even at that, I liked this book because in the end, I think, it's strengths outweighed what, again for me, were it's obvious weaknesses. I already have a copy of French's next book, Faithful Place in my stack of books to be read, and I am anxious to get to it.James L. Thanewww.jameslthane.com
1399226241	This book. If you have not read it- BUY IT AND READ IT NOW. I've read all 5 (as of Oct 2015) in the series and this one is by far the best! I really enjoyed Cassie's character from In the Woods, so I was excited to follow her in her own journey this time. In short, Cassie agrees to go undercover posing as a girl who looks exactly like her but was murdered. She lived in a house with her roommates; Cassie's mission is to assimilate back into the house and to find out who murdered Lexie (the girl was using the name Cassie had previously used undercover). I was pretty surprised by the ending; I wasn't sure "who did it" if you will. Overall a great mystery- if you like police procedurals you will like all of Tana French's novels.
2297896473	Full review now up 😉3,5🌟A crazy BR with the best squad ever! Mimi and Sreyas 😉 Thanks guys for going into this rollercoaster ride with me!This book blew my mind!!! 😱 At first I felt like reading a not successful story from a soap opera with unlikely theory. That really REALLY annoyed me! But after some time and 200 pages in, the situation changed to better, even awesome! I ended up loving this book and craving for more! And it left me emotionally drained.... “Humor me,” Frank said. “Don’t tell me till I’ve finished. Once you’ve heard me out, you can tell me to f**k off all you like, and I won’t say a word. Doesn’t that sound like fun?” NARRATIVE So, here it goes! When I firstly heard about “The Likeness”, I was really excited as I loved Cassie in book one, looked forward to meet her again so it was great to know that she has her shine hour without that mind-pooper Rob! Also the main idea to use the doppelganger theme sounded brilliant as I was making evil plans about a twin lost in birth, some crazy plastic surgery or a really talented actress with fascinating make-up skills! (view spoiler)[Well, to my great disappointment it wasn’t so and that’s where the main flaw of the story lies for me. (hide spoiler)] The lack of believability for the whole doppelganger story made a great trouble in the beginning. However, I quite liked book one in this series, despite the flaws, I could clearly see the talent of the author and once again I could see that she knows how to entwine a very good story. As my GR friend Sreyas said, real Murder on the Orient Express gem!!!! Reading the opening sentences in “The Likeness”, I felt like I was transferred into Rebecca’s story, with an old house full of haunted past. Some nights, if I’m sleeping on my own, I still dream about Whitethorn House. In the dream it’s always spring, cool fine light with a late-afternoon haze. And it delivers, a spooky old house is presented to me further in the story. Even the stories of both Whitehorn and Manderley are somehow connected….Like “In the Woods”, “The Likeness” centers on Dublin and we get yet another murder investigation for mah gurl, Cassie, who’s the main narrator 💜 Cassie’s emotional state is interesting to observe, the beauty of simple, ordinary life is explored in great attention and at the same time if left me craving for a comeback to the investigation, looking for suspects as it’s a detective story, dang it! The detective part had its ups and downs, in comparison to book one, the mystery is almost fully solved in “The Likeness” and that is a huge plus as we know who and why did it, there are some shady things left but this uncertainty wasn’t that obvious and unsatisfying as in Rob’s mystery in book 1. That being a tasty ‘up’, I encountered the not so tasty ‘down’, I had a strong suspicion about the killer from the middle of the book as the person’s emotional profile fit the killer’s for the situation in the book, well, I must admit, I had two killers in mind and cheers to French that she managed to toss the bone to another person to make me turn my suspicions elsewhere! One more means to enlarge the haunting theme is the tie between two stories of (view spoiler)[pregnant lone women and their some kind of similar end. I mean the maid in old times, who was killed (?) and Lexie who was pregnant and was killed due to the connection to the house. (hide spoiler)] PACE“The Likeness” isn’t a common detective mystery. The tension, the haunting atmosphere takes time to get built and only some 150 pages in I could feel the point striking in. Some of what happens in the story is quite predictable and too convent, but certainly not all of it. The slow a bit pace let me dive into the world of “The Likeness” struggling for most of the beginning, it almost felt like a soap opera, but later on I was pulled into Cassie’s world and it kept me hooked till the very last page. But I must admit, the doppelganger’s theme still irritated me, thought, I just put it aside for a time as the story just shines with tension, haunting atmosphere and secrets when you are past the struggle in 150 pages or so.CHARACTERSThe biggest part of the story centers on Cassie-Lexie and her time in Whitethorn House with the Fantastic Four: the cold and bossy Daniel, the self-absorbed Rafe, the eccentric Abby and the nervous Justin. That’s where the core of the story lies, the simple difficultness of the inner relationships and difficult simplicity of the emotions, grips with effective fulfillment and, in some scenes dumps a load of unnecessary heavy mood. So instead of enjoying the story all the reading time, I felt a bit tired and thinking sad thoughts. Danger, of course, lurks around every corner and lets us see the tender, vulnerable side of Cassie, who at heart, is very lonely, so no surprise that she responds to the warmth and affection which was offered in Whitethorn by the Fantastic Four and sucks her into the world of Lexie. I enjoyed my playdate in “The Likeness” after all, despite the wish for the doppelganger’s story to have more credibility. I just couldn’t believe that exact likeness of body, face features and place can be reached in one situation. Moreover, the fact that the close, really close friends believed the fraud, except one person with enough wit! In this case I felt that this undercover operation had a bad effect on Cassie as a detective. I cheer for her deduction skills, but all the secrecy and hiding the important facts didn’t give her credit. To sum up, “The Likeness “isn’t a fast paced detective thriller, it fuels mostly on the character development and fitting atmosphere building. The story is rather predictable, not very believable sometimes but definitely thought provoking and gripping. ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
36437131	And I thought In the Woods was good...I sucked down this nearly-500 page sequel in two days and then couldn't believe I'd been apprehensive about In the Woods even needing a sequel. Detective Cassie Maddox goes undercover, with a twist - she's taking the place of a murder victim who looks just like her, and who had taken up residence in a cover identity that Cassie had created years before. She has to slip effortlessly into the role and find out if any of the four best friends that "Lexie Madison" had shared a house with are suspects.I found the whole story fascinating. I was on edge the whole time wondering if she could pull it off, if she would slip up, if someone inside the house had killed her or if it was someone from the victim's mysterious past. The whole thing requires a certain suspension of disbelief, but Tana French does a great job feeding the reader enough plausible bits to make it all palatable. Although there are a handful of references to In the Woods sprinkled throughout the book, The Likeness is definitely its own self-contained story. Understanding her mental state being a direct result of the events of the first book, however, goes a long way towards explaining why she's so easily sucked into her undercover life. Now I've reached that terrible place where I want to stay in the world that the author has created, but have to wait for her to write another book. I hope I don't have to wait too long.
2373316189	4★“Most dead people are the only thing in the room. Murder victims are different; they don’t come alone. The silence rises up to a deafening shout and the air is steaked and hand-printed, the body smokes with the brand of that other person grabbing you just as hard: the killer.The first thing that hit me about this scene, though, was how slight a mark the killer had left. “The publicity blurbs explain the premise – Detective Cassie Maddox is the spitting image of the murder victim. Not only that, the victim is using the name of Cassie’s old undercover name, Lexie Madison. So why not pretend “Lexie” survived and let Cassie move into the big house with the four close friends she lived with and try to figure out who killed Lexie?Why not, indeed? But I suspended disbelief.Cassie has been mouldering away in DV, Domestic Violence, frustrated and bored. Back when she was in Dublin's Murder Squad (the author’s invention), she and Detective Frank Marley invented “Lexie Madison” out of thin air, gave her a past, a history, a career of sorts and sent Cassie into successful undercover action in a drug sting, and then sent “Lexie” away.Cassie says she chose the name because it was just similar enough to her own that she’d turn if someone called it out. Interesting.So – big shock to find a young woman has been using the name. She’s been living in a big house with friends, working as a post-graduate at university, and fooling everyone for reasons best known to herself. (I also had to suspend disbelief about the post-grad work, including teaching, for both “Lexie” and Cassie-Lexie.) The investigation is being managed by Sam and Frank together. Their planning together with Cassie reminded me a lot of the previous book, In the Woods, where Rob and Cassie, who were partners and best friends, took Sam under their wing and worked closely together to unravel a crime, also in a small Irish town.Frank is keen, Sam is against it, and Cassie is against it until she senses the familiar tingle of the thrill of the chase. Sam doesn’t get it.“I tried to tell him about undercover. I told again, how colors turn fierce enough to brand you and the air tastes bright and jagged as that clear liqueur filled with tiny flakes of gold; how the way you walk changes, your balance turns fine and taut as a surfer’s when you spend every second on the shifting edge of a fast risky wave. . . no high could compare.”Cassie-Lexie does get very involved with Lexie’s housemates, who have a relationship much like she and Rob had in the first book, something like siblings, I’d say. I think that’s one reason the book is so long. There is a lot of description of their everyday life, everything shared, no independence.This is breakfast.“We took our time. Even Rafe resurfaced once he’d finished his coffee, nudging me sideways with his hip so he could share my chair and nick bites of my toast.”See? Like kids. They are not a cult, but they are completely self-contained. What I was most reminded of was the extended family in the exceptional A Little Life (which was written several years after this and has no relationship to this otherwise).While both stories show the exceptional loyalty and protectiveness of these accidental family units, A Little Life covers a long lifetime, while The Likeness covers only a few weeks.Perhaps French thought we would need that many breakfasts and evenings and parties on the lawn to emphasise how dependent these people are on each other and how they’ve hidden themselves away from everyone else. I didn’t need that many.The house, “Whitethorn” is a character in itself. It’s a big old place left to one of the housemates by a rich uncle.“The house had the effortlessly off-kilter feel of something out of a storybook. – I kept expecting to fall down a secret staircase, or come out of a room into a completely new corridor that existed on alternate Mondays.” The townsfolk hate “Whitethorn” and the family who owned it. “‘It had a bad name. Whitethorn’s the fairy tree, d’you see? Belongs to the fairies. . . There’s still people won’t walk under a hawthorn at night, though they wouldn’t be able to tell you why.’”And the late night walks every night. Scary time, scary place. Also reminded me of In The Woods. Dark, brooding, crackling twigs, misty rain. Brrrr…..A good read, a long read, and a fairly thorough tying up of loose ends all at once at the end.
2393258794	After getting what I believe I referred to as a sucker-punch to the heart from Tana French’s first book, "In the Woods" (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), one might wonder why I would choose to read the following installment of the Dublin Murder Squad series. First of all, I loved Cassie, and I was very curious to know how she’d put her life back together after the messy conclusion of Operation Vestal. And, well, I guess I just like the kind of pain good writers inflict upon me; so not unlike a lemming, I am irresistibly drawn to scour used bookstores until I find my next paper heart-break.Cassie Maddox is no longer the carefree pixie she was before Operation Vestal: the investigation and the falling out with her former partner snuffed something inside of her. She got a bit quieter, settled serenely into a relationship with Sam (who definitely has less baggage and issues than Rob ever did) and she transferred to the Domestic Violence unit. But something very eerie happens: she is called to a crime scene where the body of a young woman was found, a body bearing an uncanny resemblance to Cassie. Creepy cherry on the creepy sundae: the identification found on the body indicates the woman is named Lexie Madison, Cassie’s old undercover alias…Now how often do you get to conduct a murder investigation from the point of view of the intended victim? I’m going to guess not frequently, so while I was very annoyed with Cassie’s undercover handler for pushing her back under her former assumed identity, I could also see how such an opportunity would be solid gold. As soon as Cassie slips back into this role, she is pulled in many directions at once.The improbable event of two women, who look almost perfectly identical, both using the same alias can definitely feel far-fetched when the story begins – and since “In the Woods” also featured a few elements that were hard to believe, I was hoping French would handle this smoothly, and I think she did. One of the many facets of this mystery is who the hell is that woman, where she came from and what was she doing as Lexie, and the investigation takes these questions to very interesting places.“The Likeness” is just as literary (bordering on lyrical, really) and psychologically rich as its predecessor was: we are very aware that there is a complex murder investigation going on, but the story isn’t bogged down by technical details and procedural babble. This is much more about the effect working on such an investigation can have, both on Cassie and on Sam (whom I couldn’t help but feel terrible for: the poor guy is adorable and clearly cares about Cassie so much, but he really is a meager stand in for his predecessor, now isn’t he? #teamrob). And just like in the first book, I stopped trying to untangle the mystery pretty early and simply let myself be buoyed by the narration, wondering what hell was going on every time I’d turn a page. The last 150 pages had me on my toes and I was ready to bite anyone who interrupted my reading (sorry, Jason!).I have to say, I loved being in Cassie’s head, at last! The opportunity to be Lexie is a chance for her to run away from the malaise she has been dealing with since her transfer from Murder to Domestic Violence, to pour herself into somebody else’s life so she doesn’t have to deal with the hole Rob left in hers. Sure, she misses the thrill of her old job, but she also misses the intimacy of her old friendship, and as much as she wants to know what this Lexie 2.0 was doing with her identity, she is attracted to the very close-knit group of friends, who seem to have been lifted straight off the page of a leather-bound novel. The atmosphere of luxurious decay French pushes you into the minute you cross that mysterious house’s threshold was the prefect setting for Cassie’s slip into another’s skin: everything is already dream-like, chic in its surrealism and so wonderfully different from her life…The similarities between the Whitethorn House housemates and the little group of students from “The Secret History” (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) was striking: super-intellectual types who disdain technology and excessive modernism, preferring to live as if they were E.M. Forster characters, and who can’t help but give off this insular vibe that they are simply better than everybody else. But while the characters of Donna Tartt’s novel irritated me to no end (partially because they were too superficially developed), I found myself warming up to this group. They are pretty full of themselves and their eccentricity sometimes feels like an affectation, but I can see why Cassie would want to belong with a group who not only have each other’s backs, but who also share the intimacy of a family – something she has never really known. The quintet is obviously keeping a ton of secrets, from outsiders and from each other, and any rational observer knows this fragile equilibrium is bound of fall apart sooner or later; but it all looks so idyllic and romantic…If you enjoyed the first book, can suspend disbelief for the sake of amazing writing and rich character development, and enjoy losing yourself in a good mystery, then you should definitely read “The Likeness”. While a prior reading of “In The Woods” might not be absolutely mandatory to enjoy this, why wouldn’t you want to know why our main character is a mess (and fall in love with Rob, like the rest of us)?**I watched the BBC produced series "Dublin Murders", which blended together the stories of "In the Woods" and "The Likeness", and while I wasn't sure about it at first, I persisted, and at the halfway mark, I was completely sucked in. The series is not a perfect adaptation of the books, but it's beautifully put together, dark and gritty and the casting carries the convoluted story very strongly. It's definitely worth watching for fans of the books.
122502975	November 2019 Re-read: Four years later and in a different format, this book is still great. I always do audiobooks on my first read of Tana French's books. There's something very satisfying about listening to someone telling you their innermost feelings, as her books do like no other, and the audio format only enhances that for me. But I've been doing paper copies on my re-reads, and that's an interesting experience too. It takes it more out of the feelings and into the craft of it (the feelings are still there, though!). This time around I really appreciated this book as a piece of literature.In simplest terms, this book is Cassie responding and recovering to the emotional trauma she experienced in the first book, though you don't necessarily need to have read the first book to appreciate it (though why wouldn't you?), and doing so by once again becoming involved in a murder case. French does that thing she always does where uses literary devices to mimic and draw out her characters' emotional states. On the surface, Cassie becomes emotionally involved in the life of a murder victim who happens to look startingly like her, to the point where it threatens her ability to do her job. Down below the surface, Lexie is a deliberate creation of the author, a dark mirror of Cassie's life and recent experiences. This is both acknowledged by the characters, and not. Cassie knows they look almost identical, and can feel herself slipping into Lexie's life, as an escape. But there are also unacknowledged parallels that elevate this likeness into symbolic territory. It is a very personal mystery, and the fallout because of that feels that much more terrible.I didn't keep notes while reading, otherwise this review would probably be 3,000 words long. There's just so much depth here. Plus, it's a great mystery! She really ruins me for other crime authors, though, because after I read one of her books I'm always expecting that amazing psychological depth from everyone else, too. On the other hand, if every mystery I read were like this one, I might be a puddle of goo on the floor. Simplicity and pure cleverness can have its place too.July 2015: Oh, Lordy. This book chewed me up and spat me out. This isn't going to be one of those reviews where I say a lot. The book was too good, and too overwhelming. I could do it, but it might break me to try. And I'd rather not be broken. So instead, in this review, you will probably get a bunch of nonsense strung together in some stream-of-consciousness excuse for review writing. I DON'T EVEN FEEL BAD ABOUT IT.The Likeness is the second book in Tana French's Dublin Murder Squad books. You don't need to have read the first book (In the Woods), but you really, really should. One, because it's great. And two, because it will give you context for the story of Cassie Maddox in this book. I love Cassie. I loved her in the first book, and I love her even more in this one. Each book follows a different detective from the Murder Squad, and each book features previous characters in the series to different degrees. Cassie is the former partner of the protagonist in book one, and the protagonist in book three is Cassie's supervisor in this one. Anyway, in this one Detective Cassie Maddox, fresh from her own set of traumas (see: In the Woods) is caught up in a murder case of a woman who not only could be her identical twin, but it seems the woman has also been living on a fake identity created by Cassie years before for an undercover case. Hence: The Likeness. The uncanny resemblance is never really justified, and the fact that Cassie uses it to infiltrate the lives of Lexie's closest friends is something that you just have to accept. If you can't, you're not going to enjoy the book. But if you can, this book is phenomenal. For me, that likeness was not a big deal. For me, it was obvious almost from the beginning it was just a (very powerful) way in for French to explore Cassie's inner life by means of a metaphor made very real. This is a book about identity, and about family and regret, and the things you've lost and can never get back. It's about the things you have to give up to get the things you want, and the things you want being forever out of reach. It's totally heartbreaking. It's also a murder mystery, with a truly enthralling (and frightening) mystery. But really, Tana French writes mystery books where the main thing you come for isn't the mystery. The main thing you're there for is the intense psychological work she does with her characters. I've never read a series before where an author is so able to suck you in to a fictional character's mind to the point that it actually becomes difficult to separate yourself from that character. Finishing the book, or pulling away from the book in between listening sessions, was an exercise in discombobulation, every time. (The audiobook is EXCELLENT.)I highly, highly recommend this series.
141196014	Loved it but I will admit that I just put my belief factor on the shelf and went with the story. French wonderfully builds the tension as the story quickly (and yet with such sense of place and time) moves to resolution-- or as much resolution as French will allow.I also liked (for those of you who read her first book) how she wove bits and pieces of leftover emotions from the first book for Cassie. It felt right... and oddly enough I also received a sense of closure from the first book-- which I needed.(reviewed 1/30/11)
2554584941	I read the first book in the Dublin Murder Squad series a few years ago and I liked it but wasn't completely satisfied by the ending. The ending is part of the reason it took me so long to finally pick up this second book. I also wasn't a huge fan of Cassie in the first book and wasn't exactly jumping at the chance to read an entire book with her as the lead character. I ended up with mixed feelings after reading this one. Cassie wasn't the problem though. The pace of the story was so slow and just felt like it dragged on and on. I rarely complain about page length but I so wish this book could have been trimmed down by at least 50 pages.Cassie Maddox is no longer a detective working for the Murder Squad, instead she's with the domestic violence unit. She is puzzled when she is asked to check out the body of a murder victim but when she arrives on scene she has a better understanding. The victim, Alexandra Madison, bears a striking resemblance to Cassie. What makes things even weirder is Cassie used to go by the alias Alexandra Madison back when she worked in the undercover unit. What the heck is going on and who killed this woman? Maybe if Cassie goes undercover again, she can get some answers.The premise seems outlandish but the author did a pretty good job making it work. The story starts off strong and held my interest but it did take awhile to even get to the undercover part. At about a third of the way in is when the story just didn't seem to go anywhere and quite frankly became a chore to read. The only reason I stuck with the book is because so many other readers have loved it. Thankfully, the last third or so the action picks up a bit. The mystery itself is okay but far from spectacular. When I compare the amount of time invested in reading the book with the actual payout, I can't help but feel a little disappointed.
2638486756	Tana French's second book in The Dublin Murder Squad series packs a serious punch. Cassie Maddox, a former murder squad detective, has moved to a different unit because of the stresses of the case called "Vestal Virgin" and personal difficulties with her former partner. She's dragged back into the murder squad, when a woman's body is found and she's carrying identification showing her name is one of Cassie's former undercover personas.This is the main thing you need to know about Alexandra Madison: she never existed. Frank Mackey and I invented her, a long time ago, on a bright summer afternoon in his dusty office on Harcourt Street. pg 12, ebook.The slain woman has a unique living situation. She rooms with four other adults in a stately manor home called Whitethorn House. The group is a tightly-knit bunch of university students who not only live together, but also spend nearly every waking moment in each other's company."Her main associates," Sam said evenly, "were a bunch of other postgrads: Daniel March, Abigail Stone, Justin Mannering and Raphael Hyland." pg 71None of the group had a motive for killing Alexandra, whom they called Lexie. Or did they? Or perhaps it was someone outside the group, someone who had an old reason for hating them and the house. Or maybe it was a crime of opportunity... and who was Lexie Madison anyway?Cassie's superiors ask her to use her physical similarity to the dead woman to infiltrate the group in an undercover operation to try to dig up some answers. Can she pull it off? And, if she does, will whoever attacked Lexie come at her again?"This is the part I didn't tell Sam: bad stuff happens to undercovers. A few of them get killed. Most lose friends, marriages, relationships. A couple turn feral, cross over to the other side so gradually that they never see it happening till it's too late..." pg 62, ebook.The tension throughout this entire book is incredible. I noticed the same thing with French's other book, In the Woods. She really has a way of building the story up through complex layers and then delaying the big reveal to pour on the stress.The characters are fantastic. The conversations are dances, setting up further plot points. "She's fine," said Abby. "She just said so." "I'm only asking. The police kept saying—" "Don't poke at it." "What?" I asked. "What did the police keep saying?" "I think," Daniel said, calmly but finally, turning in his chair to look at Justin, "that we should leave it at that."I had to suspend my disbelief at a couple points in the story. The big one was believing that Cassie looked enough like the dead woman to make the undercover part even possible. I suppose I've heard stories about doppelgangers, but I've never truly believed such a thing actually exists.Highly recommended for readers who like their mysteries with a heaping side dish of tension.
405829131	The Likeness has haunted me since I first read it almost four years ago & it’s been in my trinity of most moving mystery stories ever, along with Nicholas Freeling’s Gun Before Butter & P. D. James’s Innocent Blood. And it also belongs alongside Donna Tartt’s The Secret History & Tana French’s own later The Secret Place as the best books I’ve read about tragic student friendships. Each embodies the same moral & spiritual truth. In relationships love & good intentions are insufficient in themselves. Without absolute honesty & integrity, discord, betrayal, disintegration & ultimately disaster inevitably follow. Now I’ve read The Likeness through four times, most recently last month with the Kindle English Mystery reading group on Goodreads, & I hope I am finally ready to compose a review worthy a major classic.Each read gave a different perspective, true but partial. Initially my focus was on the crime & the solution. Who killed the woman going under the name of Lexie Madison & why? We know that the name is false, because the narrator of the book is the Dublin police detective for whom this identity was created so she could work undercover as a student @ Trinity College Dublin to discover narcotics traffickers, an operation long since suspended. And that detective, Cassie Maddox, is an absolute dead-ringer for the murder victim who assumed her old identity. The current Lexie was enrolled as a graduate student in English @ TCD & shared Whitethorn House, a dilapidated country mansion dating from the period of the Ascendancy - I’ve never had a chance to use that term before - with four other grad students - Daniel, Abby, Rafe, & Justin - who are busily engaged in restoring the old place. Frank, the head of the police undercover squad, has the seemingly hare-brained scheme of pretending the victim is still alive & having Cassie impersonate her & take her place @ Whitethorn House; For some reviewers, these coincidences were totally unbelievable. Personally I’d no problems. As in Sophocles & Shakespeare, things happen that are extremely improbable in real life, but Tana French does an excellent job of slipping them by with just enough detail (like how an acquaintance of Cassie when undercover inadvertently put the impersonator onto the existence of Lexie’s persona) that we accept them. And we can see Tana French’s own experience as an actress in Cassie’s description of how she practised for the role of Lexie. As the story proceeds we are kept wondering whether Cassie the detective will avoid detection by the housemates, & who will turn out to be the villain who killed Lexie & why. I felt the solution a bit squalid but believable & Cassie immensely attractive & appealing.About half a year later, whilst homebound with a health problem, I listened to The Likeness on CD. When a book merits a second reading, I concentrate on the characters & their relationships. Immediately after finishing The Likeness I”d read The Secret History & it was obvious that Tartt’s book was a major influence. Both feature a small group of university students who enjoy such a close & intense friendship that they operate virtually as one. Having once belonged to a similar group of friends, I totally understood how it would feel to be one of them. Daniel, in The Likeness, plays a parallel role to Henry in The Secret History. And both stories are narrated by an outsider who becomes accepted as a member of the group. But in The Likeness that outsider is a cop. In both stories the friends have a very high maintenance relationship, but they look after & respect each other with the care of racing car mechanics - co-ordinated as perfectly as an a cappella Glee flashmob, thinking each others thoughts, completing each others sentences, & living in each others pockets. Cassie, who was left in quite fragile condition @ the end of In the Woods & is now in a very tentative relationship with Sam, another detective who is supervising the investigation, finds herself fitting almost seamlessly into the persona of Lexie, & is taken as being her by the housemates. For the first time in her life Cassie feels completely accepted & loved. The most poignant moment occurs when Abby finds a still wearable party dress from the ‘30s. Cassie dons it & dances with Justin whilst Abby sings Andrews Sisters tunes from the period accompanied by Rafe on the piano. Cassie enjoys a condition of complete belonging. The two other times when she most closely identifies as a member of their community are in the melee punch-up when they pursue Naylor, the local village low-life who throws a brick through their window, & that wild drunken party when she finds herself kissing Daniel. That was a moment where Tana French sacrificed consistency of character for the sake of plot. (view spoiler)[ When Cassie backs off, Daniel realises that she is an impostor, the ‘real’ Lexie wouldn’t have stopped. She would have had sex with Daniel & Cassie should have too. The wire was no problem; after all that drinking Cassie would have needed the loo badly & taking off one’s clothes in the dark is a common prelude to having sex. Most importantly, it’s what Lexie would have done (& I suspect already had done) & an undercover should live her assumed identity so completely that she will act in character instinctively & without hesitation. As she knew Lexie had been pregnant, Cassie surely must have thought of & accepted this likelihood beforehand. (I suspect Sam did too, which is why he was so opposed to Cassie’s assuming the role.) (hide spoiler)] And Daniel behaves out of character as well afterwards, @ what Aristotle would have called the anagnoresis. (view spoiler)[Daniel has been suspicious of Lexie’s real identity since she arrived @ Whitethorn House on Sunday, 24/4; he had 2 & 1/2 weeks to think about what he should do if she’s an impostor & we know he acts intelligently & effectively on very short notice. Yet he allows Cassie virtually to dictate her terms to him, that she remain in the house of three days & that the other housemates not be informed of her real identity. Daniel has two much better choices. He could throw Cassie out of the house & inform the other housemates of her real identity. This is what an innocent man would do & would deprive Cassie of being able to cause further harm. There’s probably insufficient evidence to charge anyone with anything & surely not enough to bring anyone to trial. The other choice would be more devious & much more interesting. Daniel could have maintained the pretense that he believes Cassie really is Lexie, smother her with affection in hopes that she’d forsake the cops & remain @ Whitethorn House forever (undercover cops sometimes do get bent and join the criminals - some end up heading their own gangs) & use her as a conduit to feed the cops buckets of misinformation, providing Lexie with mythical crazy ex-boyfriends or their jealous girlfriends & students she’d failed ad lib & had Frank & Sam going in circles chasing their tails. (hide spoiler)]As I’ve come since to appreciate The Likeness as a tragedy, it’s obvious that Whitethorn House was doomed to destruction. Like Aeschylus’ house of Atreus, it is haunted by the ghosts of dead children, & to them add the ghost of Lexie, which Cassie can almost perceive. In the final episodes Cassie seems a very unattractive person, judgemental, vindictive, & totally legalistic, almost as odious as ‘Scorcher’ Kennedy in Broken Harbour or Antoinette Conway in The Secret Place. For them getting a ‘solve’ is all that matters, even though the accused may be scarcely morally responsible for committing any crime - acting from delusion or an uncontrollable passion, dominated by what an ancient Greek would call a daimon. Both of course are cops, & I fear if Cassie goes back to the murder squad, she & Conway would be spiritual sisters. Yet Cassie’s transformation is also necessary. In choosing to be a cop instead of a friend, Cassie is also functioning on the mythic level as an alastor, an avenging daimon punishing Lexie’s killers. As in all great tragedies, we feel @ the end of The Likeness that the outcome was cruel, excessive & unnecessary - yet at the same time inevitable & right.A Goodreads friend & I were discussing when an author should retire the detective in a series. Surely Ruth Rendell kept Wexford around much too long & James’s Dalgleish probably exceeded his sell-by date. For a long time I’ve missed Cassie Maddox terribly & wished Tana French would bring her back as a principal character, tho’ in her absence I’d transferred my affections to Sharon Bolton’s Lacey Flint. But after reading The Likeness again last month for the fourth time, it was time for her to take a bow, tho’ I wish she’d made a classier exit. (If Sam were a dog, he’d be a golden retriever. Cassie, an Irish terrier!) But Cassie comes very close to casting her career & her fate to the winds, & till she draws back from facing the abyss, she is one irresistibly attractive bad-ass chick.At the end of the book, Cassie pays a visit to Abby who tells her coldly 'If you’re looking for some kind of absolution you’re in the wrong place.' When I first read it, I thought Cassie should reply, ‘I don’t need absolution. I was only doing my job.’ But later I felt that she needed forgiveness & reconciliation. Doing her job meant betraying the best friends that Cassie would ever have & destroying their common life. Cassie does what is legally & professionally right but emotionally it feels all wrong. Like the hero of a French neo-classical tragedy, Cassie has to choose between love & duty. She chooses duty, & dreams of Whitethorn House will continue to haunt her, as The Likeness will us. In the epilogue where Cassie imagines the stricken Lexie’s last moments, we can hear Cassie lamenting as well losing the life she’d only glimpsed she might have had, ‘I hope . . . she floored the pedal & went like wildfire, streamed down the night freeways with both hands off the wheel & her head back screaming to the sky like a lynx, white lines & green lights whipping away into the dark. her tyres inches off the ground & freedom crashing up her spine.’ Lexie is every risk we wanted to take but were afraid to: the teenage boyfriend who wanted you to hitch with him to California to follow that band till your mother talked some sense into you, the gap year you were going to spend backpacking in India with your BF but an internship @ PwC looked a lot safer & more sensible, the theatre major you wanted to choose but you majored instead in economics to please your dad, the med-evac helicopter I might have flown in Vietnam instead of going to grad school in English. They all look just like Lexie.
3515314980	A beguiling book with great characters and vivid descriptions that come alive on the page SUMMARYDetective Cassie Maddox is asked to investigate the death of Lexi Madison, a young woman who is her doppelgänger. Lexi not only resembles Cassie, but was also living under the alias the detective had used in an earlier undercover assignment. A senior police officer, Frank Mackey convinces Cassie to impersonate Lexi, to help investigate her death and discover who she really was.As the investigation proceeds, Cassie becomes consumed by her impersonation of Lexie. She forms deep bonds with the dead girl’s four housemates, who are Trinity University students living in the richly atmospheric Whitehorn House, a mansion inherited by one of the students. Cassie’s housemates are all suspects in the murder. Once Cassie enters the house boundaries begin to blur between Cassie’s real and undercover identities.“I wanted to tell her that being loved is a talent too, that it takes as much guts and as much work as loving; that some people, for whatever reason, never learn the knack.”“Take what you want and pay for it, says God. You can have anything you want, as long as you accept that there is a price and you will have to pay for it.”REVIEWThe Likeness is the second book in the dramatic Dublin Murder Squad series. The writing is captivating and beautiful despite the dark nature of the story. The vivid descriptions makes the story come alive in your mind. The story is both cleverly plotted and smartly structured. The best word for the book is beguiling. Cassie’s character is both intriguing and multi-dimensional. She’s strong and smart, and vulnerable; and you can’t help but want to know more about her. The minute Cassie enters the house you are so consumed by the possibility she might just get caught in her subterfuge. You are consumed with reading every word to see what happens next and the tension is unrelenting. The book is filled with richly flawed but unique characters including the four housemates, Cassie’s boyfriend, Sam and Frank, her undercover handler. My favorite part of the book was Cassie’s quick-thinking and creativity in deflecting any missteps on her portrayal of Lexie.Author Tana French is such a lyrical storyteller. She had me at the beginning of the book, as Cassie raced across-town after receiving a highly distressful phone call from her boyfriend Sam O’NeilI. I highly recommend this intense and mesmerizing book. “When you’re too close to people, when you spend too much time with them and love them too dearly, sometimes you can’t see them.”Publisher Viking PenguinPublished July 17, 2008Narrated Heather O’NeillReview www.bluestockingreviews.com
2140917948	Very good read, a little extraneous in the middle, but manageable. It makes perfect sense that Tana French would not bring back this character (Cassie). Would give 4 1/2 stars.
2669100555	Dear Tana French, can you please not add shitty romance in your books just for the hell of it? I mean, Cassie is so awesome, why would she settle for a boring ass man she has ZERO chemistry with? No, thanks, I’m refusing to buy it especially not after the MaddoxandRyan greatness you’ve shown me in the first book of the series. Other than that though, it was a solid mystery novel with a unique concept. Although, the fact that the criminal wasn’t put in jail once again....I’m starting to see the pattern here. 👀
1761429071	Wow, wow, wow.Tana French has now become one of my favourite authors. I loved In the Woods but The Likeness was something else. Probably my favourite mystery book of all time. Absolutely amazing.Full review to come.
916723052	A totally unbelievable premise. Too much interior dialogue when it adds little and slows down the action, especially in the middle sections.Put these flaws aside. This is a spectacular read. French portrays the interactions of a strange group of people, living together in a strange house near Dublin, who may or may not have committed murder. All of their interactions occur on multiple levels. Everything revolves around a beautiful and troubled dead woman who never appears and yet is the always-present pivot for each of the others. Did they love her? Did they kill her?The detectives are no less intriguing, in their far-from-perfect performances. Everything that happened and is now happening is torn asunder and reassembled, often slightly askew, in Detective Maddox' mind. The device of having Maddox' bosses listening in (she's wired) on everything (well, almost everything) is just brilliant, and French carries it off bravely.
1427926068	Tana French can will Never Disappoint. This book literally had me at the edge of my seat and bitting my nails as to who killed Lexie and Why? My mind is still racing and my heart aching. Why (view spoiler)[For the love of God did Daniel have to suffer that end in the end It's unfair. He was my favorite character ( Frank being the next in line ). (hide spoiler)]Cassie character annoyed me several times throughout this book and I can help but feel if she did not make some stupid decisions things could have ended up differently for all involved. This is more than worth the investment people, I feel like Sherlock Holmes ( Ok not necessarily him ) Watson definitely Watson when I read French books. I'm on a case and raising against time to find the bad guy. I definitely will be continuing with this series as it is simply put a Masterpiece.
1911443387	I wasn't sure where Tana French would take us in her second book in her Dublin Murder Squad series, but I was fairly certain--given French is the SHIT--I'd enjoy the ride.Rob and Cassie's story seemed finished after In the Woods, so was surprised and delighted to discover our new protagonist in The Likeness was none other than Cassie, with events occurring shortly after Operation Vestal. I loved the references to Vestal, and the reminiscing Cassie does about that case (including her feelings towards Rob), but they never felt gratuitous: In the Woods can stand on its own, as can The Likeness. Any throwbacks to Vestal are done in a way that captures Cassie's frame of mind going into her new case, Operation Mirror; but, if you have read Woods: you get much more insight into the number Vestal really did on Cassie, and her baggage. It's a nod to past readers, it's brilliant character-building and layering. It's just darn good French.French has a way of inserting nostalgia into her writing where you can actually place a scene/memory/feeling--even a smell: she's that good. I think I appreciate that, and her ability of capturing a protagonist's descent into madness, more than anything in her writing. The plot--while original enough--is secondary in her novels.As for the plot, I experienced some Donna Tartt The Secret History deja vu with The Likeness: outsiders trying to make their way in to tight-knit, academic, mysterious groups. The writing is beautiful in both novels: tense, and, at times devastating. I can't wait to see what French will do in her next novel, Faithful Place. I plan to read it later in the year. Part of me wants to read the rest of the series immediately, but I already feel the need to ration it: anything to make the experience last.
1319007412	Now I understand when people said this was better than the first.
5666578305	Guess I'm the black sheep on this one. As with the first book, I very much liked the way the author puts you into the character's head, as well as the crime unit and interaction between the detectives. This crime, however, turned out to be not that interesting once you find out what's going on, at least to me. The entire thing also asks you to accept a ludicrous/better-for-the-movies premise, as well as to suspend your disbelief in countless scenarios, conversations, and power dynamics. And while I appreciate that these events, as well as the events of the first book, have an impact on the police officers, sometimes—often—the reactions seem to be strangely...outsized for the situations. They are often so outraged and shocked by what's happening, it almost feels like the first time they've encountered it or even something like it. Maybe I'm just jaded from years of reading and watching mysteries and thrillers, or maybe crime is different in the US, but I don't know--even an educated third party would challenge some of these assumptions and questionable judgment calls. And is it just me, or aren’t these a LOT of resources to throw onto a single crime? I'm also not sure I'm satisfied with the explanation for why Cassie's doppelganger was using her undercover name/identity.Anyway. I went back and forth on a rating and settled on a begrudging 3 for merit, though it's offered with serious side-eye for the amount of utter bollocks you're supposed to swallow.
4047037154	Does anyone else have an author whose writing you are so enamored with you can forgive them for nearly any and all multitude of sins? Tana French is that author for me. If anyone else had written this, I have to imagine my review would be a rant about a book that seems like a fever dream someone might have shortly after finishing Donna Tartt's The Secret History (which is excellent by the way and very much worth picking up if you haven't already.)I have to get this out of the way: The premise of this book is absolutely ridiculous. There isn't *some* suspension of disbelief required here, you have to just completely abandon it. Throw it out the window and down into a ravine, where it will hopefully be eaten by gators or whatever scary thing lurks in ravines. However French's writing and ability to build worlds and characters that are so complete and real that they jump off the page whisked me away to the point where I just didn't care that the plot was wholly implausible. Cassie Maddox (who you will recognize from the first Dublin Murder Squad book In the Woods, is called in to help with an investigation despite having transferred out of the murder squad and into a domestic violence unit. She is the perfect and only woman for the job, as the victim bears a shocking, doppelgänger-esque resemblance to her and somehow figured out how to parlay this resemblance into stepping into the shoes of Cassie's long-abandoned undercover alias Lexie Madison. With no clues as to who might have murdered the victim, and in fact no idea who the victim really is, can Cassie help solve the mystery by reprising her role as Lexie?To do this, Cassie will have to dive headfirst back into Lexie's life, including living in a house with four of Lexie's best friends (who read like they would have fit right in with the Secret History crew) where not only does she need to worry about being burned (discovered as a fake), but where she also might be living with the killer. Even just writing this quick description out, I am acutely aware of how silly it sounds and how of course in the real world, she would be burned in 30 seconds. But my gosh can Tana French write, and I was so wrapped up in the characters and wanting to find out what really happened that my "but how could she possibly imitate a voice that well" inner cynic was nearly immediately silenced. Just like with the previous book in the series, I found myself right in the narrator's head. Feeling what they were feeling, pulse pounding when theirs was, and understanding their motivations even when objectively they were making some very poor decisions. I can't wait to pick up book three and jump into yet another masterfully crafted character.
2766027061	4.5 Stars for The Likeness: Dublin Murder Squad (audiobook) by Tana French read by Heater O’Neill.The premise is really interesting. It’s kind of a one in a million chance to catch a murder. The intensity really builds through out the story. The main character is great and we are learning more about the rest of the squad. This is the second book in the series and I’m really looking forward to the next book.
1489215308	I'm so disappointed.When I finished In the Woods I was about as excited as I've ever been about a series. Even though a lot of people had a problem with the way that one panned out, I loved it. And when I learned that the series gets even better, well that was really good news for me.The Likeness started off rather absurdly, and this absurd plot device didn't get any less absurd as the pages went on. And on. And on. And on. Note I choose the word pages rather than story.(view spoiler)[About this plot device. Really? I'm sorry, I can't buy into the fact that Cassie was able to fool everyone into believing she was Lexie. (hide spoiler)]I spent most of this weekend plodding through a hundred pages of essentially nothing happening. This I can usually excuse if I'm very invested in the characters. And, to be frank, I really wasn't. Characters were drawn out okay, but there simply wasn't much that made them all that interesting as the PAGES went on. And on. And on.At 55% last night I started scouring reviews for reasons to continue. After about 15 minutes of this, I realized this in itself is a sign that I needed to stop once and for all and move on to something else that I can be excited about.I won't one-star this because French's writing is terrific. I would have stuck with this if it was 200 pages shorter, even with the unbelievable premise.
1777773423	Well-written but I was unable to suspend disbelief enough to really appreciate this very long novel.
1632965581	Very enjoyable. I liked this one possibly even more than I did the first one. Excited to continue on with the series.
2415914752	This was a bit on the long, dragging side but I loved it! Did this one also remind you a bit of “The Secret History” by Donna Tartt?
889304710	This was less of a novel, more of a perverse 693 page-long endurance test in which I scraped a pass. Barely. I liked Into the Woods, I didn't love it, but I sort of enjoyed it, and Cassie's character was a large part of that enjoyment - she was sparky, bright, sympathetic, and fun. In this one, the chance to swap Rob's pretentious naval-gazing narration for Cassie's voice, seemed like a massive bonus. So much so, that I could just about overlook the ludicrous premise and the 100 wasted pages of "Will she? Won't she?" set up (of course she will, there's another 593 bloody pages left, just get on with it already!)But French never really does get on with it. Instead, Cassie finds herself inexplicably enamoured of a group of 4 tedious wankers whose delusions of social separatism, intelligence (they sit around discussing philosophy and fancy music and stuff!) and creepy communal living would make any sensible person run for the hills. The aptitude Cass initially showed for intuitive police work is eschewed in favour of getting drunk and mucking about with her shiny new friends, and the amount of basic errors she subsequently makes would have a rookie hanging her head in shame.When it comes to pretentious naval-gazing, it seems that French just can't help herself, and Cass as a narrator is as bad if not worse than Rob (only without the schooling to explain her awesome vocabulary and attention to poetic detail.) Pages and pages of purple prose and meandering, deep-and-meaningful discussions stretch on and on. Reading this novel is akin to slogging your way across a muddy field in a pair of ill-fitting wellies - you make it so far, you're weary and quite fed up, but then you realise you're over half way through so you might as well just keep plodding to the end. As a crime thriller it's not very thrilling, there's little to no sense of peril and absolutely no sense of pacing. As a police procedural it's laughable, and as a character study the "no pasts" rule rules out any depth to the character development. I'm not sure a decent edit would be able to save this one - chop out the waffle and all you'd be left with is a threadbare premise, a single red herring, and an unsatisfying conclusion where Cass makes the most head-scratching decision of the entire book. Which really is saying something.
83980322	I loved her debut novel, In the Woods, which involves some of the same characters read here, and I had really high hopes for this book, too. In some ways, I wasn't disappointed -- the language is still lovely and the scenes beautifully rendered. But in other ways, I was disappointed -- the main character of this book, Cassie Maddox, was the second lead in the last book, and I expected, well, more of her. This book wanted to be a regular novel, not a mystery or crime book, and it's the mystery and crime that are least well served here. The main character misses obvious clues all along the way, and her judgment is poor from almost moment one. There's some forced ignorance being pushed onto her by the author in order to keep the book going that ends up echoing the bad decisions Maddox makes (not revealing evidence, for instance, to her superiors) to drag out her involvement in an absorbing case. Readers, however, can't be fooled so easily as characters can.
2820558770	4.5 stars Absorbing story, and fascinating characters who I really cared about. Interesting snippets of Irish social history. Good mystery, once you suspend disbelief about Cassie and Lexie being so physically indistinguishable from each other. Sad, but not as bleak as In The Woods. And good resolution of all the major plot strands!
126959233	I forgot to mention in my review of the first book, In the Woods, about how much humor there was and how needed it was. This book also has that same wonderful humor. It’s a brilliant book. Great story, particularly great characters, pheromonal ambiance and gorgeous writing. One of my pet peeves with mystery novels is when a main character makes stupid choices and Cassie does that here. (view spoiler)[ Examples: not telling the team that she found Lexie’s diary, not revealing all sorts of things she should have shared and not just to her boss but also to her love interest. The extent she goes to with Daniel to protect all four of them is crazy, not having her gun AND her mike on her almost all of the time is crazy. (hide spoiler)] I love Cassie and I think I sort of even understand her but I got incredibly exasperated with her.The characters are complex. The story has a lot of suspense all the way through. I felt very sad at times. I did love the ending. Most of the way I was galloping through not wanting to stop and wanting to know what would happen and that whole time I was worried about what I would find to read next and wondering if it could possibly hold my attention as well as this story. There were a lot of very long chapters but as the book went on many of the chapters got shorter and the book became harder and harder for me to put down. I appreciated the way it was wrapped up well but not too fully. (view spoiler)[ I was grateful that we learned so much about the dead woman. I would have liked to know more about Daniel’s background. (hide spoiler)]I feel like an idiot but (view spoiler)[ I’m not 100% certain who stabbed her and who was the father of her baby. Anyone know for certain? I know I must have missed the clear reveal. I think I know but I’m not sure. This is one reason why I still prefer paper books. It would have been worth it to flip pages to important passages to see. With the e-copy it just wasn’t worth it to try. I might be able to find out in reviews with spoilers or from doing an online search. This is embarrassing that I am not sure. (hide spoiler)]A few quotes that I liked:“I found out early that you can throw yourself away, missing what you’ve lost.”“I wanted to tell her that being loved is a talent too, that it takes as much guts and as much work as loving; that some people, for whatever reason, never learn the knack.”“the kind of intense secret life that a lot of orphans and onlies have”I simultaneously read the e-book and audiobook editions. I love the audiobook narrator and love her Irish accent for Cassie and her voices for the others too. I think I liked this book more than the first book.4-1/2 stars
1255200625	I read this book while on my UK book tour - it seemed fitting even though I didn't have time to visit Ireland on this trip (next time - I promise!). I'm really enjoying these mysteries with a psycololgical element and unique and complex characters. The series is called the Dublin Murder Squad and each one features a different character (but they are related/linked) I liked this one better than the first book, In The Woods as the ending was more...satisfying and I connected with Cassie right away - she's my type of woman - practical, intelligent, and capable.I already asked for the third book, Faithful Place for my birthday and hope I get it.
402129931	While I am still working on the fourth book in this series I can safely say, without a doubt, that this is my favorite book of the four thus far. It's hard to say what calls to me here. It could be the way I relate to Cassie and all of her darkest wants and needs. It could be the creaky old house that is reminiscent of so many great gothic settings that have come before. It could be the overarching theme that all anyone truly wants is to belong and to spend every waking moment feeling wine in their bones, bare arms swirling in the cool moonlight, the safety of a homemade family, and a kiss on their lips after midnight... preferably by someone who is not the stoic homicidal maniac that they appear to be. This book is intoxicating with its freedoms and dreams. Before the story gets interesting, things start off by focusing a bit on Cassie and Sam to allow us to see how their relationship has grown since the events of In the Woods. Sure, Sam is about as interesting as a golden retriever* (so far anyway, where's his book that details all of his mental shortcomings, French?) but I am not in the camp that believes Rob and Cassie should have ended up together at the end of In the Woods. Sure, Rob's phone call to Cassie was heartbreaking, but I hoped that she really did leave the phone on for vengeance because I am kind of a vindictive bitch when scorned, and it pleases me to see my fictional counterparts doing the same and standing up for themselves. Maybe Rob and Cassie are meant to be (whatever that means), but perhaps not now, and I think that's ok. Rob treated Cassie poorly and abused the connection that they had. He has no one to blame but himself and it's certainly not Sam's fault for falling in love with her and treating her better. I read in an interview of French's that she has considered going back to Rob and Cassie's story some day, and that suits me just fine. I think it makes sense that Rob might get a better grip on his demons, Cassie might get a better grip on hers, and those crazy kids might just work it out yet. Patience, doves. "And God the taste of undercover on my tongue again, the brush of it down the little hairs on my arms. I'd thought I remembered what it was like, every detail, but I'd been wrong: memories are nothing, soft as gauze against the ruthless razor-fineness of that edge, beautiful and lethal, one tiny slip and it'll slice to the bone." Have you ever wanted to step into the shoes of someone else's life and just stop being you for awhile? Then the basic set up here will appeal to you. The set up will also appeal to you if you've ever dreamed of giving up your routine job and living in a house with peace-loving-manic-pixie-hippies. Is that a dream that anyone has? I bet it is, and you just don't know it, because I have to say I was jealous of the life that Cassie got to live undercover. As jealous as she was of Lexie. I also don't care if the plot that led her there is entirely implausible and something that would never happen because this isn't The Twilight Zone. This is fiction. I also don't believe a wizard named Dumbledore with a long beard is going to be knocking down my door to invite me to a secret wizarding school in England** but that's never stopped me from falling in love. "In all my life I had seldom wanted anything as wildly as I wanted to be in there, get this gun and this phone off me, drink and dance until a fuse blew in my brain and there was nothing left in the world except the music and the blaze of lights and the four of them surrounding me, laughing, dazzling, untouchable." You see that sentence there? I've never felt more put on paper. I know that feeling, and this is why Tana French's writing is so good. It feels like you're reading about yourself. I mean, granted, that's probably only if you're like me and partially mentally unstable, but be honest, you are, aren't you? I also know the feeling of a friendship so close and co-dependent that at its best it's the most wonderful feeling in the world because it feels like home, and at its worst it's murderous and leaking poison until it blurs your entire world. The writing and the characters are painfully raw and honest, and French is very good at making us all question our basic morals and beliefs. I would go so far as to say that this book was the most beautifully written of her Dublin Murder Squad collection. The mystery was subtle and the only one of the first three books where I can honestly say I didn't know how it would end. I would say that even if you didn't like or love In the Woods you should give this book a shot before writing off French completely. She may just surprise you yet. *But Golden retrievers are fucking awesome, ok, those muther fuckers are so devoted to fetch they deserve a medal.** Yes, I actually do believe that, and your attempts to disillusion me will be met with disgust and derision.
135994820	It is amazingly difficult to articulate my feelings and write a decent review for The Likeness. The second installment of Tana French’s Dublin Murder Squad series follows the story of Detective Cassie Maddox as she becomes immersed in a new case. I know it’s not fair to compare this to In the Woods, but how can I not? In the Woods was a gripping, fast paced, roller coaster ride of a murder mystery. The Likeness is a much slower paced, psychological thriller. Did I enjoy it? Immensely. Was it as good as In the Woods? Ah… that’s a tougher question. These two books are so dissimilar from each other. Although I loved reading this story, was completely absorbed by it, and look forward to reading it again in the future, I can’t say I would recommend it for first time readers of Tana French. But, then who am I to say, seeing as I’ve only read two of her novels? ;) In the Woods wasn't more enjoyable persay, I just enjoyed it differently. And really, that’s something to appreciate, an author who breaks out of her mold and tries something new. Obviously Tana French is writing a series about difficult cases and kudos to her for experimenting, rather than allowing herself to be stuck in a rut. Bits of The Likeness are ridiculously implausible (if you read this, you’ll find out what I mean early on.) Also, there were some themes of being haunted by the past and traumatic amnesia that were already explored and introduced in In the Woods. Will all of her books include these ideas? Finally, I can’t help but feel that it was dragged out a little more than it needed to be. Or was it? This is one of those books where I feel that I can’t accurately gauge it until I’ve given it another go. After the first reading, I can say that it stuck with me for a long time afterward, and left me feeling just as drained as some of the main characters when everything was said and done. Regardless, I can't wait to see where this series goes next.
1665470713	Another home run by Tana French. I loved In the Woods and worried that the second book wouldn't be as great. I read the excerpt for the second book, tantalizingly included at the end of In the Woods, and got the impression that it was about Cassie before she partnered up with Rob. Thankfully, I was wrong about that! This book is after the events of In the Woods, and is completely engrossing.A couple of minor criticisms: 1. The premise is quite a stretch. Finding a dead body that looks EXACTLY like a detective, and they are not in any way related? Not just a resemblance--they could be twins! Pretty unlikely, but I'm extremely forgiving for these kinds of details when the book is so good, and this one is.2. That Cassie could slip into this tight-knit group with such ease and so few missteps. Even giving latitude for the excuses they had, such as Lexie's memory loss from the attack, personality changes brought about by a coma, etc., this was also stretch. The book stresses how these people spend almost every waking moment together, and she only messes up two or three times? In reality, there would probably have been so many minute details, so many mundane rituals, habits, and quirks that she would have messed up on, that she would have been lucky to make it for two days without being made.Okay--that's all the criticizing I'm going to do. I was sucked into the story almost immediately since I loved these characters so much the first time around. I also enjoyed the new characters, this somewhat odd group of misfits who found each other and created this idyllic home for themselves. I think anyone reading this would have moments of envy for the contentment and camaraderie this group had, and I could understand Cassie's emotional involvement with them. I wanted to be friends with them! French's writing is superb, as well. So many beautiful passages! It adds a whole new dimension to the tension and suspense of the story. She brought a slight hint of the supernatural into this book, as well, but not quite as strong as it was in the first. It seems appropriate, being set in Ireland. Why not include a little Celtic mysticism? I'm excited to read the third book, which I discovered is about the fearless Frank, the mastermind behind Cassie's stint in Undercover. I'm quite sure it will not disappoint!
3269883971	I don't think you will find a thriller as exquisitely written as this. If you told someone the outline of this book it would sound quite boring, 5 students living in a house one gets stabbed but who did it? 3 cops, a couple of other minor characters. The scope of it seems so small, and yet it's 693 of wonderfully written, intricately plotted brilliance. Every raised eyebrow and creaking floorboard, it's all important, it all means something. Huge step up from the first book.
3567049007	Decepcionante, demasiadas paginas para tan poca chicha. Me gusto mucho mas su primer libro.
5026317977	3.5 ⭐️ Interesting premise. A cop finds herself in a murder case where the victim is an identical looking girl to herself. From her features, body shape, hight and even her voice… oh and the name too apparently.So in order to find out who killed her, she’ll have to insert herself (as the actual victim) into the friend group/suspects. It seems super far fetched, specially that it’s not a sci fi story, but hey!, you are reading a novel. So I’m pretty sure you could suspend your disbelief enough to enjoy it. I enjoyed the first act, which is funny because it felt long (not boring) but i was waiting for the more interesting stuff to happen. My expectations were too high, i guess. The story didn’t really meet them exactly, but it was a unique one. I liked it enough. the dynamics were intriguing but the mystery wasn’t that good.
3515732784	I don’t reread many mysteries, but I admit that I enjoyed THE LIKENESS as much the second time around as I did the first. It’s a credit to Tana French that she so cleverly sows her breadcrumb trail of clues, that every reread will highlight something new. Cassie Maddox is one of my all-time favourite fictional detectives and I still live in hope that one day she will make a return. There is something utterly compelling to the premise of going undercover to find a murderer, but even more so when the murder victim looks like your identical twin and has been living under an assumed name. I was almost dying from curiosity how this one would all come together!As with all her novels, French has created an atmospheric setting that instantly drew me in and utterly captivated me throughout. Whitethorn House, an old tumbledown mansion in the Irish countryside, is the type of house that’s just perfect for a mystery. It is home to five young students, each carrying the legacy of a sad or traumatic past, who have formed their own family unit, living a simple and yet happy life within its walls. Until one of them gets killed. French is very skilled at creating a sense of melancholy and longing for a paradise lost that resonates through all her novels. Here, I could vividly picture the five friends forming a sort of utopian home for themselves that functions as their own family unit. Don’t we all long for such firm friendships and such simple pleasures as the five enjoy in their home? It is no wonder that Cassie soon gets drawn into this longing and almost forgets that she is an undercover detective on a mission to solve a murder. Can you blame her though? I vividly felt the same type of grief as Cassie did when the walls of paradise folded in on themselves.THE LIKENESS is the type of novel that draws you in and spins you into its dreamlike web until the boundaries between reality and fiction blur. It all played out vividly in my mind and utterly consumed me. A brilliant book, which is on my all-time favourites list! *blog* *facebook* *instagram*
3943784636	Второй роман Таны Френч про Дублинский отдел убийств проходит у нас по жанру «фантастическая литература». Это нужно совсем уж не любить читать и быть воспитанным волками, чтобы поверить в главную сюжетную линию книги. Полицейская выдает себя за убитую аспирантку Лекси, ходит за нее учиться в Тринити-колледж, живет под одной крышей с её друзьями и ходит преподавать на литературные семинары. Либо полицейской хватило неоконченного высшего по психологии, либо в Тринити так себе литературная программа. Я читал много отзывов, в которых «Сходство» называют «Тайной историей» для бедных. К сожалению, «Тайную историю» я не читал — берегу до выхода на пенсию или анонса нового романа Донны Тартт в зависимости от того, какое событие наступит раньше. Но в «Сходстве» я не проникся ни дружбой, ни химией, ни диалогами. Ну, либо мне все эти годы не везло с компанией, а настоящая дружеская любовь и уютные посиделочки у камина со сплетенными ногами и обсуждением регтайма — это именно то, чем занимаются группы из пяти абсолютно непохожих человек.Если же снять эту саспенс-шелуху, то у истории есть несколько цветущих пышным цветом слоев: про смелость начинать новую жизнь, про то, что за все нужно платить, про экономическое состояние Ирландии и про то, что в «Дублине цены на жилье сравнимы с нью-йоркскими, но в Нью-Йорке ты за те же деньги получаешь Нью-Йорк», про неприступное провинциальное молчание, которое веками оттачивали на британцах, про то, что детектив тоже не железный человек. Все эти зеленые ветви на прогнившем стволе превратили книжку с фабулой бульварного романчика в захватывающий и мощный роман. И, что немаловажно, написано (и переведено) выдающимся образом. В процессе чтения ты головой понимаешь, что тебе скармливают какой-то буллшит, но душа поёт и пляшет на опушке леса и требует добавки. Это одна из тех «проходных» книжек, которую хочется рекомендовать всем. Впечатлительные проникнутся обаятельными героями, сыщики с удовольствием выстроят дюжину теорий, а скептикам будет интересно следить за подвижным фоном и сайд-квестами.
1540217753	If it wasn't for the absolute stunning writing, this probably would have ended up being a 3.5 stars. I thought the book was too long, and at some points a bit far-fetched. Luckily, this is not a normal whodunit, and the focus is definitely more on the internal thoughts and relationships between the characters. As another reviewer said: "The Likeness isn't about solving mysteries so much as exploring them." I was on the edge of my seat throughout the book, as the whole undercover situation is a constant threat, and there's almost never a moment where I could relax and catch my breath. The author uses nature to create a constant, subtle eerie feeling that enhanced my uneasiness. So if you prefer your mysteries to be purely plot-driven this is probably not for you, but if you, like me, are more interested in character revelations, I highly recommend this series.The Story: Detective Cassie Murdoch, a young woman who has recently switched from the Murder Squad to Domestic Violence, is called to go undercover and investigate the murder of a woman who resembles her and has been using identification from one of the detectives previous undercover jobs.
7725548768	I went into this expecting a shallow airport thriller. I had no idea Tana French was such a quality writer! This books is like if The Secret History had been written as genre fiction—a similar plot but with the focus on the mystery and action rather than the brooding gothic literary vibe. But the writing is just really high quality! I really enjoy genre fiction as long as the writing is good, but I feel like it’s hard to find consistently reliable authors. I will definitely be reading more Tana French!
