3624195513	even though this book has the enchanting quality i have come to associate with BC thanks to her debut novel, ‘the binding,’ im still trying to figure out why i didnt love this as much. this is an extremely atmospheric novel. with the abstract concept of the grand jeu, a tragic death, a nefarious government party, and elusive characters, theres a mysterious feel to everything. and i think its because the primary focus seems to be on the characters, which im not quite sure was the best decision, as that leave the multiple outside forces not really fully explored, and i feel like the story was hindered because of it. and looking at the four main character POVs, there was truly only one whose chapters i was actively looking forward to reading. the other three are either seemingly unnecessary or just uninteresting.that being said, i just could not put this down. something about it sucked me in and kept me engaged. i think the writing just has such a charming nature to it, that i didnt want to stop reading it.overall, not as good as BCs debut novel, in my opinion, but still worth reading. ↠ 3.5 stars
3647972979	** spoiler alert ** Nothing about this narrative sat right with me at all.[EDIT] In the months since I posted this tiny review, I've been going back and forth on whether I should elaborate. Well! I've decided that I'm finally going to. I began feeling strange about the way this book was written at about the time when Claire started mentioning her womanly womanly ways and how she bleeeeeds like a woman because she's a woman and women bleed. It initially felt like a very heavy-handed method of highlighting her otherness. Useful, perhaps, in smaller doses, but the way this was written felt like being constantly smacked over the head with a hammer with the venus symbol painted on it. Also, Bridget Collins, are you okay? Is this really your lived experience of menstruation? I would consider going to a doctor if so. This poor character must be anaemic by now! This is the kind of description of menstruation I would expect from somebody who has never experienced it nor had the wherewithal to ask anyone who has experienced it (or even just googled it!). The whole plot of the book, also, gave me pause. Spoilers ahead! When the pieces started to be put together, the image the reader has for a while is that Claire is the sister of Carfax, Léo's schooltime love. The ever-constant comparisons between Claire and Carfax in these scenes felt extremely uncomfortable on a first read through. It seemed very... odd, to have a bisexual protagonist fall for a female character on the basis that they heavily resemble their male sibling. I don't necessarily think that a plot with that premise is inherently an issue, but the way it was handled in this narrative left a bad taste in my mouth. It felt questionable. Of course, though, the twist in the tale is that Claire IS actually the Carfax that Léo fell in love with, having disguised herself as her bipolar brother to attend his elite school. Thank you, by the way, Bridget Collins, for the delightful handling of a mentally ill barely-a-character who commits suicide to further his sister's personal angst-fest. A charming decision, honestly. Really sensitive. The decision to have Claire BE Carfax sat very strangely with me. The way it was handled felt very off. The trope of 'woman disguises herself as a man to attend something she wouldn't be able to as a woman' is as old as time, and in this scenario felt extremely trite and uninspired. Perhaps if there had been any nuance whatsoever in regards to how the narrative interacted with gender, instead of the heavy-handed mess that we got, this plot line could have worked better. Imagine my surprise (ha) when, on the hunch I picked up from the phrasing in this book, I checked Bridget Collins' 'following' page on Twitter, to find it rife with TERFs (trans-exclusionary radical feminists). Of course, I am familiar with death of the author, and separating the art from the artist. Heaven knows, one learns enough about that reading classical literature. But can that be successful when the dogwhistles of gender essentialism and transgender exclusion have seeped through a work like a viscous, oily stain? I would argue not. Perhaps for some people it is possible to ignore the blatancy of this, but unfortunately for me it was the final damning nail in the coffin of a book that had already gone far beyond the limits of my taste. It's a shame, as The Binding was a book with a fascinating premise, and the complexity of the plot in The Betrayals was still interesting to read, but there is unfortunately no way I will be considering reading any new Bridget Collins books in the future after this mess.
3234611610	This rating may change when I come to my senses, but HOLY SHIT, that was phenomenal! (and COMPLICATED, such a feast for the human's mind!)
3333986242	Wooow… this is so disappointing! I almost don’t want to believe this is the same author who wrote “The Binding” one of my fav standalone book on 2019, maybe the high expectation I put on this book is the “problem” why I didn’t enjoy thisThere are 4 POVs in this book (The Rat, The Magister Ludi, Leo and the past Leo) and I can only enjoyed 1 of them, the other 3 felt so unnecesarry or else… felt so bland and boringThe plot is extremely slow with very descriptive writing style (esp The Rat’s POV), so many things / words are not explain well you just need to accept the way they are without knowing muchabout them, that makes my reading journey felt so painfulThis book inspired by “The Glass Bead Game” by Hermann Hesse so maybe I can enjoy this book if I already read that book, but since I haven’t read it.. the concept about “Grand Jeu’ felt so murky!The concept about this book is really promising about someone who need to beback to his old school and deal with his past, but in my opinion just not so well executed! So so sad I don’t enjoy this book I feel so "Betrayed" 🥲😖
3463433195	4.5 ⭐️What a whirlwind! In a speculative world not too dissimilar from our own, is a boarding school for boys who study the grand jeu a game that encompasses maths, music, philosophy and religion. Leo is an ex student of Montverre, who then went into politics. After a difference of opinion with the prime minister, he is sent back to Montverre as a guest. The country ruled only by a governing body known as The Party have become more and more controlling. They persecute Christian’s, women, disabled people and numerous other groups in a similar vein to the nazis. Leo meets the current Magister Ludi. The first ever woman to be given the position. But Leo can’t help feeling something drawing him to her.Meanwhile we get flashback chapters to Leo’s time as a student, spent mainly with his rival/best friend Carfax. There are also chapters from a POV known only as The Rat - but these serve a high relevance and are worth paying attention to. Considering this is speculative fiction rather than a thriller (for example) I flew through these pages! I couldn’t stop reading, the writing is beautiful, I was entranced with every POV. The only reason it didn’t get 5 was because Leo is a misogynistic prick a lot of the time. But I loved the twist, I loved the unraveling of everything, bit by bit and ultimately loved this story 💖
3719811469	Going to be honest here, this one was a struggle to get through. The Betrayals is the second novel I’ve read by Bridget Collins, and it was more disappointing than The Binding. For starters, I found the world-building incredibly lacking. The entire novel centers around something called a 'grand jeu,' though it never once explains what that means or entails. It seems like a sort of musical/interpretive dance/scholarly (?) composition/production/output, but I genuinely could not tell you. Students at an all-male academy study this grand jeu and compete against each other to create the best...grand jeu.There is also an extremely clunky political atmosphere in the novel, which seems to take place in a sort of alternate 1930s Europe. The 'Party,' led by 'The Old Man,' rules over the region, and the main character Léo is a disgraced former head of cultural affairs whom the Party banishes to the grand jeu academy, his former school. The Party discriminates against Christians (no explanation here as to why) and is obsessed with nationalism and cultural unity. I cannot see how this was not a loose reimagining of the late Weimar era and the rise of the Nazi Party -- it so blatantly replaced Jewish people with Christians and the 'Old Man' was so obviously a Hitler-esque demagogue. As a student, Léo fell in love with his former rival, another talented student, who died at the end of their term. Upon returning to the school, he sees that his former crush's sister is now the head of the school, and they begin to kindle a connection. I won't spoil anything more, but I will say I was expecting canon queer content and was disappointed at the route it took.Also there was a girl who lived in the walls of the school and called herself The Rat and I have no more to say about that.0.5/5: If this were not an ARC, this would have been a DNF for me. It is not well-written, the world and plot is inscrutable, the changing POV chapters provide nothing of note, the characters are not fleshed out nor likeable, the grand jeu is completely incomprehensible, and the weird parallels to Nazi Germany are super uncomfortable and just weird. I really wanted to give this a chance, but it was not good at all. It seems that some fans of dark academia are enjoying this, but for me it failed on all levels. It read like a draft rather than a completed book. The most frustrating part was that some plot points showed slivers of promise, but it failed on every front for me.Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
3830201270	** spoiler alert ** Queer enemies to lovers in a dark academia setting?? Who needs anything more???Set in an exclusive university; young men play god with games and politics. After tragedy struck twice, one of our main men returns in disgrace only to become intrigued by the first female master of the school.This was so good!!!!! I can’t believe it!!!! The plot, storytelling, writing, angst, slow burn, everything!!I have no other words sorry!!!
3512514582	The grand jeu is an inexplicable and indescribable game and the students of Montverre Academy are tasked with creating it.Leo is in his second year and has been given a second chance at creation but the game, for him, is already tinged with grief and guilt. Can the glory and greatness it also promises surpass these feelings? Claire is the only female tutor in this male, academic world and has to prove that despite her gender and tragic family history she is worthy of a place in this elite world. Can she compete against the privileged males she mentors? And will these two individuals become allies or enemies, in their ambitious quests?This entire novel was an evocative infusion of gothic atmosphere and dark academia vibes. I adored the exploration of this mysterious setting and only wished the reader was able to garner more of an understanding of the academy and the games its students were tasked with creating.That being said, part of this book's charm was also its peculiar and ineffable qualities. Consistent intrigue and forever feeling a step removed from a true understanding of everything that occurred had me tearing through the pages to this novel's close.The characters too played their part in disallowing the reader to ever feel close to an understanding of their nature or their motives. Mysteries abounded and every figure that featured here was cloaked in their own share of them.I had a great time immersed in this dark mystery and can now confidently say that Collins is an author I can rely upon for a chilling and thrilling historical tale.
3402130269	Was this book intriguing? Yes. Did I know what was going on? No, not really. There were many interesting strands to this book but somehow they didn’t make a whole story. I finished the book feeling dissatisfied as a reader and disappointed as a fan of this author’s previous book. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
3676051606	Christ. What a mess. Bridget Collins spends the entire book pontificating about the “grand jeu” (always italicised, never sure why) but we never know what the grand jeu actually is...I surmise it’s some type of composition/musical performance with the “game” being the delivery/conducting, though why each composition is called a “game” when according to the novel any element of competition would sully the grand jeu is beyond me. It’s music with extra wanky mathematical and literature interpretation? And somehow everyone understands the arcane references? And magic doesn’t come into it but somehow the games are delivered without an orchestra, or training? What? What is happening? Where am I? Does Bridget Collins know how to play an instrument? Something is lacking.There’s some sort of totalitarian Party that persecutes christians and conducts purges, but we never know why. It’s like Collins had two separate novels in her mind and tried to draw them together, and they haven’t melded. Instead they sit awkwardly side by side, and as you jump from one to the other your ability to be immersed and believe declines. Religion (Christianity) is discriminated against but the grand jeu is treated as a religion, complete with essentially a monastery and magisters (the equivalent of priests) teaching and being banned from sex. This world was so sketchily drawn I felt it impossible to connect with the characters. I frankly could not have cared less and flipped through the last 150 pages of this book. The romance was unbelievable and strange...I was relieved when it ended. What a disappointment after The Binding, where the world was so carefully drawn and the mysticism so thoroughly thought out. I won’t be reading Bridget Collins’ next novel unless it’s a universal rave.
4611404105	Maybe 4.5. I loved this - the world-building was incredible, the writing enthralling and hugely compelling, the characterisation complex. There's one element of the ending that I haven't quite made up my mind about yet, but overall it was a great read.
3705315045	*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com*www.facebook.com/onewomansbbr**2.5 stars**The Betrayals by Bridget Collins. (2020). At Montverre, an exclusive academy tucked away in the mountains, the best and brightest are trained for excellence in the 'grand jeu': an arcane and mysterious contest. Léo was once a student there but lost his passion following a violent tragedy. Now he is exiled there in disgrace with his political career in tatters. But it has changed, even allowing a woman, Claire, to serve in the 'grand jeu's' highest office of Magister Ludi. When Léo first sees Claire he senses an odd connection with her, though he's sure they have never met before. The bond between them is strengthening but they have both built their lives on lies. And as the legendary Midsummer Game draws closer, secrets are whispering in the walls... Okay, so I spent the majority of this book confused as to what the 'grand jeu' actually was. From what I gathered, it was a game of some kind that involved hand movements, math, poetry, music...but what it actually was, how it worked and what the purpose was, nope, no real clarification, argh! I honestly found it super frustrating and it distracted me from the storyline. On top of that, it is never clarified what year or location the story is set in. Some readers may not mind this ambiguity, unfortunately I am not that reader. Putting that aside ... the writing is good, really good. Even through my confusion I was being drawn in and wanted to keep going. Some chapters are from Léo's perspective when he was a student; I enjoyed the changing relationship between he and another student, Carafax, although I didn't really like Léo himself. In the current timeline I appreciated the difficulties experienced by Claire being the only female there who was clearly resented by others in this male dominated field. Overall: I think readers who are open to something different and don't mind a lot of ambiguity could really enjoy this book however I personally like more clarification and explanation when I read fantasy type novels.
4992729223	(3.5) Hmm, big mixed feelings about this one. I loved the world it created, and honestly felt the vagueness (of the setting, of the nature of the ‘grand jeu’) only added to the magic. I loved the detail: this is an evocative, nostalgic text. But I guessed the twist almost immediately – it feels like Collins wants you to, though I’m not sure why, because the narrative then carries on doing that annoying thing where we’re extremely close to a character’s thoughts yet they have to think in circles around something that’s being obscured from the reader, which takes all the tension out of the story. The ‘I hate this person! but... do I actually like them? no, it cannot be’ of both romantic threads seemed endless, and particularly unlikely for intelligent adults, no matter how guarded. I also hated the ‘rat’ chapters and would gladly have cut that whole pointless plotline out of the book. I sound negative here, but I liked the way it felt overall: cosy and so perfect for this time of year, a warm blanket of a book. A hot chocolate with brandy. A big cushion with stars embroidered on it
4219928406	lol what. this was so bad I can’t even put it into words like..?? im left with way more questions than answers, and tbh the whole thing felt so off and it’s only after reading other reviews that it makes sense (aka the author is a TERF). (btw this is less a review more a rant, also major spoilers)there is so much that’s left poorly explained or just unsaid like i know some people probably loved it but what was the point behind the rat POV? also just what happened with simons whole character and plot? (the treatment of christianity felt so iffy as well like the whole point was that christians were oppressed). also there are so many plot holes within the Claire/Aime switch I cant even begin to list them-, and it felt so deeply problematic, i wouldn’t’ve ever guessed it was written by a woman if I didn’t know just due to the blatant sexism throughout the whole thing, like the woman-dressing-up-as-a-man-to-get-into-a-sexist-institution plot is so overdone but this took that trope and just forgot the whole ‘the woman actually fights the misogyny’ point. also the mental illness rep of carfax was so bad just using the families long history of illness as a minuscule plot point and barely acknowledging him committing suicide? also the way Leo described falling in love with claire was so iffy, the entire time he was comparing and blending his expectations of the two people and merging them into one ideal partner (there is literally a scene where he envisions a future with claire/aime where it’s ‘aimes’ personality and looks, but Claire’s curves and mind??). also there was a quote in there (don’t ask me to find it im never looking at that book again) like ‘why would a man pretend to be a women?’ which although it was appropriate for the context just felt off.not even gonna get started on the terrible writing and planning I have so many questions from why don’t we get any more information on the political side of this situation which is so massive but only addressed in the last like 50 pages? also ‘the old man’, please I would actually like to know more about him seeing as he’s the main force behind so much of this. and Chryseis, who even was she, what impact did she make, what actually was her relationship with Leo, why does he care so much, why is she only brought up when Leo needs to be moody and reflect, just why?? omg I almost forgot THESE CHARACTERS TAKE UNRELIABLE NARRATORS AND TWIST IT SO MUCH NOTHING MAKES SENSE IN THE WORST WAY POSSIBLE. like yes, there are plot twists which if the characters spoke about earlier would be ruined, but please both Leo and Claire’s entire worldview changed when both their twists were revealed - Claire never brought up her being carfax in her internal monologue and questioned events which she caused (for one, the removing the papers from the archives, and how she knew abt Leo’s past), and Leo omfg when he suddenly decided ‘I’ve been lying to myself the entire time I never actually wanted Carfax to get ahead I always hated him’, like please your entire diary entry perspective says otherwise you can’t change it all in one sentence. this also felt homophobic but I can’t put my finger on it. the pacing was terrible, the writing style just wasn’t it, there are so many plot holes, there is no worldbuilding which I think was very much needed in this, alsoWHAT EVEN IS GRAND JEU??????overall: problematic, generally trash, not worth your time. thank you
3679357527	The Betrayals by Bridget Collins was my first read-a-long with Tandem Collective Global and I really enjoyed the interaction with my fellow readers. It was great to talk about what was happening and try to figure out the plot with others. We had a great group and some insightful conversations.This was a beautifully written book with a gorgeous cover. I was excited to dive in and read. I am glad I read with a group, otherwise I may have given up. This has to be one of the most frustrating books that I have ever read. I spent most of the book trying to understand what was happening. All the talk of the grand jeu, the great game, and even after finishing I am not sure what it is! But I am glad that I kept going as the story did mostly come together.The vagueness of the location, era and the great game was not really for me, but it was an interesting read and took me outside of my comfort zone.Thanks to Harper Collins and Tandem Collective Global for sending me this book and having me along for the ride. I look forward to joining in with more read-a-longs.
3641019395	Bridget Collins returns with an enchanting, original and multilayered story, which is even more enticing and alluring than The Binding. At Montverre, an ancient and elite academy hidden high in the mountains, society's best and brightest are trained for excellence in the grand jeu--the great game--an arcane and mysterious competition that combines music, art, math, poetry, and philosophy. Léo Martin once excelled at Monteverre, but lost his passion for scholarly pursuits after a violent tragedy. He turned to politics instead, and became a rising star in the ruling party, until a small act of conscience cost him his career. Now, he has been exiled back to Monteverre, his fate uncertain. But this rarified world of learning he once loved is not the same place Léo remembers. Once the exclusive bastion of men, Montverre is now run by a woman: Claire Dryden, also known as Magister Ludi, the head of the grand game. At first, Léo feels an odd attraction to the Magister--a mysterious, eerily familiar connection--though he's sure they've never met before. As the legendary Midsummer Game approaches--the climax of the academy's year--long-buried secrets rise to the surface and centuries-old traditions are shockingly overturned.Collins is one hell of a writer. Her prose is beautiful and captivating. She paints this wonderfully stark world of an alter I’ve 1930s so well. The characters are interesting, and the way the story meanders back and forth through the years is brilliantly done. The worldbuilding is nothing short of exquisite and this is a book full of wonderful magic and deadly politics. A special hybrid of fantasy and historical fiction, it is a sumptuous and darkly atmospheric; a story substantial in its sincerity and stunning in its writing. Collins's world is lush, richly-imagined and one I really didn't want to leave. This is a breathtakingly spectacular novel and rates as one of my favourites of 2020. The plot is a slow burn for the first half, which I enjoyed, and from then on it gathered pace a little. The perfect pacing is matched by the equally perfect storytelling ability of the author; it's rare you come across a more exceptional portrayal of time and place. An utterly charming and nuanced story with all the makings of a bestseller that captivated me from first page to last. This is a book you experience rather than merely read. Unforgettable. Highly recommended. Many thanks to The Borough Press for an ARC.
3656358371	I’m so confused by The Betrayals. I think I may have done permanent damage to my facial muscles from the amount of frowning I did while reading it.So we have a school that teaches its students how to play some kind of game, we have two characters at the school… and honestly that’s about as clear as it gets. Everything in this book is so vague it feels like a sketch rather than a novel. We never find out exactly what the grand jeu is – and seeing that this is a major part of the story this seems like a mind-boggling decision.The setting is also incredibly vague. Is the story set now? The 1800s? The 1400s? There’s no way of knowing. There are mentions of a menacing-sounding government called – wait for it – the Party, and politicians who have a hatred for Christians. But – and here you’ll start to sense a theme – we never find out why. We know that Léo used to work for the Party, but we never find out what exactly he was doing for them either.All this vagueness creates a sense of detachment between the reader and the characters. I found it impossible to care about Léo and Claire when there was so much ambiguity surrounding everything else. The focus is mostly on their relationship but there’s nothing compelling about it seeing as neither of them are particularly likeable.I would have given up on this book had I not previously loved Bridget Collins’ The Binding. I kept hoping for things to fall into place and start to make sense, but sadly that never happened. A disappointing read, and definitely the most frustrating book of 2020.
4178725187	Overall I was expecting more from this book. In terms of plot regarding the grand jeu there's not much going on since everything is abstract and we see that the characters are occupied with it, but in the end we don't really know what they are actually doing. It was a bit frustrating for me and I didn't really enjoy it.The story is narrated through four points of view and I did appreciate it, even though at times some of them were just confusing. In terms of themes, I believe this book wanted to do too many things all at once. For example I was interested in Simon's storyline and what the government was doing, but in the end it wasn't given much space. So why am I giving it 3 stars? Because there's one thing that I was hoping it was going to happen since the very beginning and it actually did happen! There were moments where I was about to lose hope and I was thinking that maybe my crazy theories had gotten the better of me, so I was so happy to read that I was right to believe in this theory.This year I've read both of Bridget Collins' novels and the feelings I get seem to always be the same, I feel like something is missing from the stories, like there could be more to them. The writing style is good though and that's probably why I will probably try and read something else by this author in the future.
4697956910	dnf'd after having it on hold for a while, mainly because the author is a TERF (which I wasn't aware of until today) and her gender essentialism is pretty obvious in the book. It also does this weird thing where the book is basically about the nazi regime rising to power but instead of Jewish people, they target Christian people, erasing the real history of the shoa in the process. Feels problematic, man. Thank you, next.
4017904779	** spoiler alert ** DISCLAIMER; i listened to this on audio and have no idea how to spell any of the proper nouns in this book including the school's name and half the characters. i could look them up but i simply love myself too much thank you for understanding xoxooxThis book can be described pretty easily; GIRLBOSS, GASLIGHT, GATEKEEP. Girlboss janky magical meditation cermony (bonus points if you, a minority in an archaic instution do nothing to help other minorities in that same instution). Gaslight someone you 'love' about someone's suicide. Gatekeep gender as a binary all must subscribe to or else. Things I liked; Writing style I absolutely adore bridget collins’ debut The Binding. It’s very much the book i wish i had written. Something about her writing is so deliciously atmospheric. It’s decadent and smoky and i adore it. That sense of brilliance was stylistically present in The Betrayals as well, although not quite to the same standard as her debut. The Rat I absolutely adored The Rat. fascinating depiction of a feral child, beautiful commentary on what it is to be human (spoiler alert I think it is our connection to other people). Genuinely continued reading to find out more about The Rat’s backstory. Thought it was brilliant to have The Rat play the only full Grand Jeu that we see in the game. Made me think a lot about the exclusionary nature of lots of academia etc. those who aren’t given a chance are more naturally brilliant than those there by nepotism. General hatred of nepotism Audiobook was very very good Issues I had; Weird incest energy So a lot of the relationship building between Claire and Leo is so bizarre?? At first I thought the weird undercurrent to their interactions was so the author could hint at Leo’s romance with her dead brother but then it turned out that this relationship was going to be romantic too and I was just ???????????????? like it just felt,,,,,,, wrong and i really didn’t like it. Had no interest in watching those two get together. Bitched to flatmates about the sweet home alabama energy while reading it. At times felt like bad 1984 fanfic I’m sorry but the emiel-leo plotline was purely bad 1984 fanfiction. I’m not a massive fan of 1984 (think orwell’s talent is far better expressed in animal farm & down and out), but this entire storyline felt like a cheap imitation of the real thing. At times genuinely made me consider DNFing as much as the weird incest thingy was nearly a dealbreaker. Leo Matten was utterly unlikable HE HAD SO MUCH PROMISE WE WERE ROBBED. Working class boy surrounded by privileged rich kids who are there on money instead of merit ?????? later is exiled from the party for objecting to discriminatory policies ??????? perfect set up for everything I like to see in a redemption arc. Someone reaching their moral breaking point and then attempting to make a change for the better. Instead we get;-Leo finding out his ex is probably in incredible danger and instead of him doing anything he’s like ah well,,,, nothing i can do.-Leo deciding to save one (1) christian child from certain death and instead of you know, trying to find a long term solution for the poor kid he leaves him tiny amounts of food and simply pretends he does not see it.-THE FERAL CHILD IN THE WALLS HELPS THE POOR BOY MORE THAN THE GROWNUP WITH ACTUAL POWER TO CHANGE THINGS-Leo deciding to abandon said child with a pile of money and no note to tell the kid what the fuck is going on or even who a safe person to bribe is.-Leo caring more about getting a quick shag than trying to do anything to overthrow the government-I genuinely thought at one point he was going to set fire to Mont Vert and honestly ??? would have felt more satisfying if he took out some party officials while he was being a prick. There was absolutely no need for emiel to be a pedo pls i'm literally so tired Just like how there was no need for Justin Bieber to write the song YUMMY there was no goddamn need for Bridget Collins to write the line where emiel is like oh yeah,,, tiny feral child if you had a bath i’d shag you. Jail. immediate jail. Emiel literally slept with her mum. Also if her mum had given birth again then emiel would have been like her step-dad or something kind of??? Anyways there was no need and i literally had to stop reading for like a full day because the ick i got Gender discoure (yikes!) Right. This really is the issue I can’t ignore with this book. As a cisgender gal I am definitely not the most qualified person to speak about this and if there’s anything wrong with what i’ve written here please please please feel free to correct me. That being said, let’s talk about the absolute audacity of Bridget Collins to write a plotline that involves crossdressing while also being a TERF. Riley Redgate I think manages the delicate balance of having a character crossdress in Noteworthy, and using that to question the gender binary that is so ingrained in western societies and also to have the character reflect on their own gender because of their crossdressing to get into the boy’s club so-to-speak. HOWEVER Riley Redgate also comments on the extensive historical importance and cultural significance of crossdressing to the genderqueer community. ALSO to my knowledge, Riley Redgate is not a TERF.I was 55% through when I found out about Bridget Collins’ twitter activity (thank you booktok) and honestly the title of this book says it all. I was fucking bitchslapped with betrayal. but honestly, if it hadn't popped up on my fyp, this book would have been sufficient for me to conclude that Bridget Collins opposes any interpretation of gender that is not strictly male & female.It is bad enough to write a book that overemphasises menstruation as the defining characteristic of womanhood. However, to also be using queer relationships to sell books when you actively exclude LGBTQ+ people who aren’t cisgender from your twisted version of equality ????????? no thank you fuck off please.Also,,,,,,,,, made the whole Claire-was-Carfax-all-along plot twist feel a lot sleazier. Plus,,,, there were a few lines after Claire was fired that indicated she might be interested in experimenting with a more genderfluid identity and coming from a transphobic author it just felt gross and sleazy and wrong.If transphobic,,,,,,,,,, why write book tackling the constraints of the gender binary ??????If transphobic ,,,,,,,,,, why pretend to represent LGBTQ+ people?????? Portrayal of mental illness (yikes!) Finally, if you thought I hated Leo by god did I hate Claire.Tell me why it’s 2021 and I just read a book where the heroine’s plotline relies upon the doomed manic pixie dream tortured genuis who dies so that the heroine can be a total bitch to everyone and it’s completely fine.Repeat after me; stop weaponising other people’s suicides.Claire’s grief over her brother’s death and the guilt she dealt with could have been explored beautifully. in fact kind like how Leo’s was portrayed (a little bit, although still left a lot to be desired). Except here’s the thing. Claire knew how awful it was to feel responsible for someone else’s death. It clearly fucked her up. And yet ???????????? she had no problem making someone she ‘loved’ think they were equally responsible for someone’s death ????????????There’s dealing with trauma and then there’s weaponising trauma to hurt other people.Also, i genuinely got the vibe that claire was angrier at leo for ‘lying’ about the Red Game winning the gold medal than whether or not he contributed to someone’s death.I’m so tired of people using suicide or the threat of suicide to punish other people. It’s garbage and insulting and stigmatises suicide even more. And guess what contributes to suicide rates ???? that’s right folks, it’s stigma. Overall opinion I loved The Binding. I hate The Betrayals.As soon as I heard about Bridget Collins’ 2nd book I added it to my tbr. I very nearly bought the hardcover. When I finally did finish reading it, all I could think was how stunningly accurate the title was. The author of one of my all time faves wrote a book so full of promise and yet so utterly, totally awful that i felt compelled to sit and write the longest and angriest review I have ever created. For the past year i have recommended The Binding to anyone I’ve spoken to about books. The anger I feel knowing that I was unwittingly helping a bigot make money has left me feeling,,, wouldn’t you know it,,,, Betrayed.Also, FYI, even without the yikes transphobia sprinkled through this book, it really just isn’t very good. In fact it’s quite bad.
3274903652	*3.5 stars* The Betrayals tells the tale of the ongoings at the all male school Montverre, that practices the beloved grand jeu, meanwhile exploring outside impact on the school from an increasingly hostile society. We follow Lèo Martin (a disgraced politician and former school pupil of Montverre), Magister Dryden (the first female teacher in the history of Montverre) Lèo’s journal entries from his school days and occasionally from the character the Rat. The Betrayals is an intricately composed story, that for all its brilliance, the writing was hard to read. I ended up having to resort to the audiobook to persevere, which revived my interest in the story. I absorbed and understood what was happening more than I did solely reading the kindle. The narrators did a really good job. I 100% recommend the audiobook for a better experience of the story.The novel tells the tale of elitism and a growing dystopian government prosecuting certain factions of society that aren’t the wealthy, Catholics or men. It’s infecting infrastructure, such as Montverre, with their conservative views and threatening the essence of the fantastical world within its walls. This made the character Magister Dryden very interesting and very important, as she’s the only woman who teaches at the school. She goes up against misogyny time and time again, where many male characters count her extremely lucky to get where she’s got and they challenge her authority and resent it too, purely because she’s a woman. It was actually rather sickening to read. The entitlement and superiority Lèo feels and actually projects onto Magister Dryden was infuriating. So, safe to safe, Lèo’s demeanour and conduct throughout the book, toward Dryden and another character, Carfax, is rather sickening. He’s arrogant - like Gaston from Beauty and the Beast level - and is not a likeable character. Yet he plays an important role in one of the book’s biggest themes: mental health. The book alludes to and explores a variety of mental health. The sense of loss of a loved one and the grief left behind, deteriorating mental health, the impact and consequence of bullying and subsequent suicide . All of these points in the overarching theme were handled and established extremely well, where when appropriate and provoked enough, had my heart heavy and my blood boiling.Beyond this, everything else is purposefully vague throughout the read. To be intriguing? To be irritating? Well, it’s a bit of both.There comes a point when I feel like there are some books that are published with a vision of what the reader’s experience is imagined to be, versus what they’ll actually experience. It’s very difficult because it’s all very subjective, until it isn’t. Until it’s something like The Betrayals. The Betrayals, not to be too grandiose, betrays it’s reader in its difficult readability. It shouldn’t be so hard to connect to a story that has so much in its meat... but yet it is. In fact, there’s arguably too much, with the Rat’s perspective really not needed other than to pull off a plot move. Other than that, the Rat was redundant. It’s so infuriatingly disappointing, especially when I think back to Emmet and Lucien of The Binding (and many other strands of that story too), and how I fell so hard in love. With The Betrayals, I feel cold toward it, and then confused because I know I shouldn’t, but I do. I say all of that because, The Betrayals should have been much better received by me, especially when I am in awe of just how much Collins put into the story. But it lacked soul between its pages and an overall charisma it sorely needed, which I know for a fact Collins is capable of (The Binding). The Betrayals missed that mark for me unfortunately. However, the bit we’ve all been waiting for - the grand jeu. The grand jeu - at the heart of the plot - is undefined throughout the entire book. ... Or is it? Collins has masterfully created something that is what you prefer it to be, providing an interactive element for all readers, to contribute their own imagination alongside reading the story. I personally imagined it as a metaphor for how one lives (plays) their life. I wasn’t initially impressed at first, but the more the story goes on and I became familiar with it, I found it endearing. Collins informs us who don’t know in the acknowledgements that the grand jeu is inspired by The Glass Bead Game by Hermann Hesse.The Betrayals is a deeply subjective experience: to all readers of my review, it’s a personal conclusion as to whether the pay off is worth the work. For this reader, the payoff was most certainly worth the wait. The distant and slow pace is a necessary evil to appreciate this clever story that is a true masterclass of unwrapping a beguiling mystery. I never saw the twists, which was thoroughly delightful and made the book entirely worthwhile. Although, the sorrowful ending sadly took the jubilant feel from the climax, which was disappointing as I felt a more upbeat feel was needed after the leaden bleak weight throughout.Nonetheless, The Betrayals is one of those books that lingers in the mind, on and on. It works on you, like a kind of hypnotic mesmerised effect. It wasn’t perfect, and it won’t be everyone’s cup of tea, but it was certainly thought provoking about the world we live in and the world we don’t, which will stay with me for some time to come. It’s an extremely distinct yet enjoyable story to read from a wonderful and sleek imagination that leaves me eager to see what Bridget Collins cooks up next. Thank you kindly to the publishers and Netgalley for providing me with an e-ARC in exchange for this honest review. 🌺🕰
3935519868	Gros coup de coeur sur cette lecture et pour plusieurs raisons :- Monde complètement immersif - La Plume de l'auteure- Les mystères- Les Flash back- Mes recherches infructueuses pour comprendre certains points de ma lecture (sachez que je suis partie beaucoup trop loin dans mon délire )
4784004254	Some of this book enjoyed bt felt the overall storyline could of been shorter
3637966240	I have absolutely zero idea how to review this one. CW: suicideI wanna preface by saying although I didn't enjoy this one, a lot of people definitely are enjoying it! If you think this is your kinda thing I'd urge you to check out more positive reviews cause I think me and this book just didn't vibe well together. Ultimately, I've barely any idea what this book was about. Go read the description. There's a school, yes. And a love, or loves, sort of? There's a game that is never explained but is entirely central to the book. There's a totalitarian government coming into power, but is never explored. This was the slowest book I've ever read. I would have DNF'd it if it wasn't an ARC, and if people hadn't spoken so highly of The Binding before this. It was painfully boring often, the pretentiously vague tone throughout was stifling, and with no great payoff at the end to cushion the blow. I guessed the big ~twist. Miscommunication was a heavily-used trope. Mental illness is used as a central, yet somehow very dismissed, plot point. I will say that occasionally it grabbed my attention, just enough to keep me going, but there were about three different points where I strongly felt as though the story should be wrapping up - the first of these being before the halfway mark.I'm sorry I didn't love this one, I really wanted to. There just wasn't enough substance to make this a story worth reading for me. I feel like you can have a long book OR a slow-burn book, but having both with consistently little payoff is just overwhelmingly dull and unsatisfying. I wish I could at least write more about what the book was about but honestly, I feel as though I was never told myself.Thanks to the author, NetGalley, and Harper Collins for the ARC. To be published in the UK 12/11/20.
3595491464	I liked Bridget Collins' first book for adults, The Binding, very much. It was an excellent example of how to do intelligent yet accessible historical/fantasty fiction: complex and gripping, with great characters who the reader immediately cared about, and brilliant world building. So I was excited to be given the opportunity to read The Betrayals by the publisher and NetGalley and was sure I'd be in for a treat.Sadly, I was disappointed. The Betrayals was needlessly dense and wore its learning oh so heavily (when I read in the afterword that Collins was inspired by The Glass Bead Game by Herman Hesse, the pretentious philosophising of the 'grand jeu' fell into place for me). More importantly, the characters ran a gamut from so deeply unpleasant I wanted to push them off the battlements of the school, to 'merely' miserable and irritating. Reviews for The Betrayals seem to be split between people who felt very similarly to me, and those who loved it, so it's obviously very much a marmite book. Sadly, it was not for me. I got such strong vibes of “the author went to Cambridge and she wants you to know it” that when I got to the author bio stating “Bridget Collins went to Kings College, Cambridge” I just rolled my eyes because of course she did. (As an aside, it makes me laugh that people always have to tell you they went to Oxbridge. You don’t tend to get author bios saying “Joe Bloggs went to De Montfort University” do you?)
3587493126	I enjoyed this book.....even more than I enjoyed The Binding!! Enigmatic, unique, beautiful prose, intriguing characters that just sucked me in from the very first chapter.The mysterious 'Grand Jeu' is never fully explained throughout the book and although I am none the wiser at the end of the book than I was at the beginning, the mystery of the 'Grand Jeu', for me, only added to the atmospheric intrigue of this book.I can see it being a 'Marmite' book, you'll either love it or hate it! I absolutely loved it! Definitely one of the best books I have read this year!
3470426801	At this point, anything Bridget Collins writes, I will be reading!!🥀In every word magnificent!! I will try and explain why everything about this book was just perfect and it for me, here goes….A way for me to describe just how Collins’ writing makes me feel would be this: you know that feeling when you feel feverish, your body is really hot and you’re sweating and short of breath, yet you get these cold chills out of nowhere and you’re just cold and hot at the same time, feeling drowsy yet alert but also like everything is this eerie and clouded dream?? Yes. That!!!!The Binding also made me feel that as well! Bridget Collins’ writing borders on romanticism and hints of obscure darkness and eerie gothic vibes even when the setting and time period are undisclosed. This leaves you somewhat in the dark but then the writing slowly starts to fill in the gap every chapter you go through. This book was everything I love and more, the atmosphere, the academic setting, characters and dynamics, the development and how utterly real and convincing she makes her characters out to be, is always so poignant and interesting! So many unlikable characters, some you hate and some you can’t help but love. Léo was the perfect main character, I loved this egotistical idiot, who’s only thought is being the best, the winner, the gold medalist, his pretentious nature and motives made him out to be so real and honest. I couldn’t help but love him more and more with every righteous yet selfish act he made, he depicts what everyone can’t willingly admit, and I adored that. It makes rooting for him so satisfying.The whole relationship between our two main characters, between the past diary entries and the future, was so alluring and captivating. This friendship built from rivalry, the feelings that arose and how hate and jealousy still maintained even though the two characters cared for each other, shows you how brilliantly Bridget Collins made out Léo and Claire, or Léo and Aimé, and how she set both pairs up for essential heartbreak and betrayal (hah) and how inevitable it was, but still portrayed love, honesty and admiration and fascination through their relationship, it’s just brilliant, no other words needed.The academic setting and the whole idea of the grand jeu or (Great Game), was almost magical. The way Collins doesn’t really explain to you fully what this grand game everyone is striving to create is, it still leaves you in awe and transfixed by every description of maths, music, philosophy and religion, all combined together to make this ethereal game that is so sacred to these people. It’s almost holy it’s wicked!!!I might be very surprised by the smallest things, but actually having caught the twist before hand had me yelling at this book with how good it created this whole flow and how I never saw it coming until before it was revealed, how intricate and sly some details slipped through without me batting an eye, but then SUDDEN REALIZATION occurred and I was flabbergasted!! Truly amazing. Felt like crying till I actually eventually did!!There has to be more said. This book is an ode to rivalry and the competitive nature, of grand ideas and the love of creating the unknown out of nothing and everything, and that sickly sweet feeling of meddling with the unthinkable. It’s tinged with a beautiful friendship and sacred moments, while breaking your heart with betrayal and loneliness. And that all hinges on the authors’ intricate yet eerily descriptive writing, like feeling the veins of your wrists pumping, or the cold sweat on your forehead, or that heady feeling of nausea and delirium. It’s so intimate it sometimes makes you shudder, and it’s beautiful!!!! I’m in love as I should be, and it’s definitely a new favourite.🥀
3672107269	The Binding by Bridget Collins was a standout release for me and as is the natural order of things, this second adult release from Bridget Collins was always going to have a heavy amount of expectation attached to it. The similarity between these two novels stops at the gorgeously coordinated covers. The Betrayals is a very different read to The Binding, another highly imaginative and uniquely crafted story, yes, but not quite as easy to get wrapped up in – for me, at least.Everything within The Betrayals is a little bit on the obscure side. The era is not disclosed (I couldn’t even get a bead on it, although the publisher’s website has it listed as historical fiction), the location is not identified (although by deduction I’m guessing ‘somewhere in France’ but this is not confirmed anywhere in the novel), and despite my best intentions, I just still, after finishing, have no idea what the Grand Jeu even was; perhaps I am suffering from a severe lack of imagination, I don’t know, but I just couldn’t envisage what it actually was. I couldn’t see how it was performed, or played out, or even written. In this particular aspect, I think there was possibly a crossover with the sort of themes you see popping up in YA fiction, but in this case, targeted specifically to adults. The author mentions in her author note that her grand jeu was inspired by another novel containing a game such as this; I haven’t read, much less heard of that novel, so in terms of visualisation, that did nothing to help me. While these factors didn’t give me any reason to abandon the novel, they did lead me to taking much longer than normal to get through it. It was like each of these unknown factors presented a barrier to get through. I really do like to know the when and where of what I’m reading, and in truth, perhaps this novel should have been billed as fantasy rather than historical fiction, for the ‘game’ does seem to fall into that realm of storytelling.Anyway, moving on from all that. I did actually still enjoy the novel overall. This is entirely owing to the way in which Bridget Collins writes. She crafts her characters with depth and presents all aspects of them with authenticity: their flaws, their strengths, their morals, their talents. Likewise, her story plays out with just the right amount of tension, intrigue, and mystery, clues laid down for the reader at key points, some things taking their time to be revealed, others coming swiftly and with shock for the reader. In terms of quality of writing, you can’t fault her. She knows how to tell an unconventional love story, and also knows how to take it to the next level, making her story, and the essence of it, about so much more than the relationship between the key players. I think that if readers of The Binding go into this with adjusted expectations, they should be able to enjoy it in its own right. Bear in mind that it’s an entirely different sort of story, and think more along the lines of fantasy than historical magical realism, and you should find it to be enjoyable and intriguing. I look forward to seeing where Bridget Collins takes us next.
3724592909	Fuck terfs
5988744413	I must admit that I'm really not sure how to rate this novel.Whilst the writing was enjoyable, much of the plot was vague and confusing and I didn't really fully understand what the 'grand jeu' that this academic institution specialises in.Not only was the location and time period left very vague as the narrative is told through two timelines with the past revealed through diary entries.I love books with mystery and suspense and whilst I was a little frustrated with the world building, it was the lack of answers that ultimately disappointed me.
3480162251	Thank you to Bridget Collins, HarperCollins UK, HarperFiction The Borough Press and NetGalley for the chance to read The Betrayals.I would recommend this to: My fantasy-loving colleague.“There’s a silence, like the gap between two ticks of a clock.Then she turns away, unable to look at his face. Léo was once a student at Montverre, an exclusive academy tucked away in the mountains, where students learn an arcane and mysterious game. Now he returns in disgrace, exiled to his old place of learning. Claire is the first woman to serve as Montverre’s Magister Ludi. When Léo first sees Claire he senses a connection with her, though he’s sure they have never met before. As secrets whisper in the walls and the legendary Midsummer Game, the climax of the year, draws closer, will Léo discover the truth about Claire – and will that truth destroy them both?”I really did enjoy this book, but while I was gripped from the first page, I can’t deny that I was also somewhat bewildered throughout! I can be a bit ‘literal’ and trying to get to grips with what exactly the mysterious Grand Jeu actually is would be like trying to paint a picture of a smell. There’s no getting hold of what it really is all about, but we aren’t supposed to understand – it’s other worldly, mystical, made up of music and maths and ‘performance’ – a very abstract concept of ‘game’ that we never pin down. I soon stopped really trying to find rules within the description and just went with it. I do love Bridget’s writing and also enjoyed The Binding, but in this book I couldn’t ‘see’ the characters as I often can when reading – I couldn’t place them at a time in history, or imagine their dress/fashion etc, but again that is part of the enigmatic nature of the novel. In the end my mind had placed them as almost ‘Pride and Prejudice’ in my search for an image of the characters. Because of the missing detail, I felt a little like I had missed something at first, as though I had started to watch a series but had missed the first episode, but once I got into the swing of the book I stopped dwelling on that. The Montverre school was given more description and I envisaged a sort of remote, somewhat crumbling Oxford University.We open with a chapter on ‘rat’, and in a way I would have liked to hear a little more from her. Following the introduction we didn’t hear about her for quite a while and I started to wonder how she fit in to the overall scheme, but it all became clear later on. I would have liked to know a little more about how she and her fellow fugitive ended up.Now onto the main characters – they’re flawed, and tangled up in the mysterious and competitive ‘game’, as well as politics and a fight for survival in a prejudiced environment. They were hard to ‘like’ exactly, but none the less we championed them towards trying to overcome their personal, and joint challenges. I loved how Collins scattered just enough breadcrumbs throughout to have forseen the twist – it’s a euphoric moment when you read a revelation and think ‘I KNEW it!!’ (although we could never be sure of course), thanks to clever, but oh-so-subtle hints interspersed within the bigger scheme.I loved the writing style, just as in The Binding, while this is quite a different read. Would a preface have helped me get into the book faster? Possibly – I personally would have benefited from understanding a time period, and to have some clue about the great game, even if all that told us was that we’d never really understand it! That said, I'm sure there are many readers who will love the book even more for its esoteric quality – absorbed by the mysteries themselves rather than distracted by trying to solve them! All of this in NO WAY spoiled my enjoyment of the book, but explains my relationship with it!
4763697181	2.5 o un 3, aún no estoy segura.
4369689370	•Read for pleasure••••I bought this book almost directly after finishing The Binding, but did not start reading it until I arrived in the Netherlands and started Uni. I don't know why it took me so long to read it but I'm glad to finally remove it from my very very long TBR list. •••Now onto the review.If I'm going to be honest, I was slightly disappointed in this book. I had such high expectations coming from The Binding but I shouldn't have had such high expectations, because that might have made my experience more enjoyable, and not so disappointing.There is nothing wrong with the world building and how Collin's wrote this book but I was so in love with her previous book that I held The Betrayals on a pedestal. And the more I read, the more I noticed that this book did not come on the same level than The Binding. (view spoiler)[Starting the book with the perspective of the Rat just made it very confusing from the start. I just did not understand the use of this narrator until halfway through the book. There wasn't any exposition and it felt like I was thrown in the deep-end without any support. Of course, I do like when the action starts in the middle of things but usually there is some context near the beginning that makes the transition easier to understand. It just wasn't one of those books. (hide spoiler)]I found out only at the very end that the book was partially inspired by The Glass Bead Game from Hermann Hesse. And as someone who has not read this book, I did not have any knowledge to build up on. If someone asked me: "What is this book about?" I would not have been able to answer till I was maybe halfway through the book. It was pretty ridiculous to say the least. I understood that the book was about some game the grand jeu (thanks to me being able to speak French) but there wasn't any context of what the game was actually about. It's like expecting your friend to know a card game and not explaining the game till the match is almost over. That's how I felt reading this book. The review so far is very harsh but there are certain qualities that I really liked about this book. First of all, one of the things I loved about The Binding was Collin's writing style. And this book was written beautifully. It was very easy to read and I had no trouble loosing myself in her words.Second of all, apart from the obvious confusion, I really liked the story and how everything seemed to connect all together in the end. (view spoiler)[I never would have expected that Claire was Aimé all along, nor that the Rat was the daughter of the women Emile was having sex with. (hide spoiler)] There are definitely some twists and turns in this book that took me by surprise. (view spoiler)[One thing that kept me on the hook was knowing that Aimé killed himself, and trying to find the reason why he did. And even though Aimé was Claire all along, I was kind of disappointed that she was. I would have liked it if she was not Aimé, but then there is just no way for "him" to have come back to "life". One more thing that disappointed me, was that after all of the things that happened between them, they still did not end up together. (hide spoiler)] Lastly, one narration that I liked more than all the others were Léo's diary entries. At first, they felt very stiff, very non-human. It felt like I was reading, not the character writing something in his diary, but the author trying to be the character writing in his diary. I felt like the character was loosing his voice, and I heard the author instead. But the more I read, the more genuine the diary entries got, the more Léo's feelings stood out, and the more I felt myself reading the book only to arrive to the next chapter, and hoping it's a diary entry. All in all, I was kind off disappointed but also I did enjoy reading the book. It has just taught me the lesson that I shouldn't go into a book with expectations that just because one of the authors' books is absolutely amazing, doesn't mean that all their books are absolutely amazing. •••Would I recommend The Betrayals?Sure. The reading experience wasn't horrible and I did enjoy reading, but I would not read it, if you go into it with very high expectation like I did. The Betrayals is nothing like The Binding, that's for sure. •••
4805720986	RTC. Bookclub book of the month September (yes I've read it in October I know)
3983504805	honestly. i think i just went through the five stages of grief. also, i think Bridget Collins is my new best friend. ----------literally, this book seems made for me...a magical realism, dark academia book with a bisexual protag and the most stunning cover ever?? not to mention it comes out the day that my semester is over!! Bridget Collins, thank you for this present <3
3608147061	I'd previously read the author's other book, The Binding, but I enjoyed this one a little less. The book is set in 2 time periods and centres around 3 characters - Leo ("now" and as a student via his diaries), Claire The Magister Ludi and the Rat. Leo is a disgraced politician who has been sent to Montverre as punishment and to observe Claire, the Magister Ludi. Montverre is some kind of college and the students study the grand jeu. The Rat is a character that lives in the walls of Montverre. On a good note the book was well written and maintained a mysterious atmosphere throughout. However there was a level of ambiguity throughout the book which doesn't sit well with me, as I like to understand the premise of what I am reading - for example the time period was vague, and I'm still not sure what the grand jeu actually is. Overall it was a slow read, with largely unlikeable characters. I think for a lot of readers this book will be marmite - for me I didn't really enjoy it so it's a 2 star rating. Thanks to Net Galley and Harper Collins UK for an advance copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
4853450214	2022 reads, #38. One of the things I'm coming to realize here in my fifties, when I now have (according to Goodreads) a total of 2,500 books I've read over the course of my life, is that mostly what I'm on the lookout for anymore is simply stories that are unique, startlingly unique, and that sound like no other stories I've read before. That's why I was so excited this week to read through Bridget Collins' newest, The Betrayals, because it's not only extremely well-done, but is literally unlike any other book I've now read in my life. Like the best of New Weird literature (which is how I would classify this hard-to-categorize book), it just plunks us into the middle of our situation with no explanation of what's going on; it's only as we read further and further that we realize that we're supposed to be in an unnamed country that sounds very similar to Austria in the late 1920s or early '30s (the citizens are obsessed with French language and culture, yet the nation is filled with German-style beer halls where radical political activists meet), and that a Nazi-like fascist party has recently taken power but has not yet started its campaign for world domination. (In an interesting twist, people of a certain religion are being persecuted and whisked away here in the middle of the night, just like the real Nazis, but in this fictional case it's actually Christians and not Jews.) The Hogwarts-like castle/school up in the far mountains where most of our story takes place, then, is supposed to be a sort of haven from all this modern chaos, an Oxford-like space that hasn't fundamentally changed in a thousand years (both students and professors still wear monk robes to class, for example), and where the one and only subject being taught is what they call the grand jeu, French for the "Great Game," which Collins cleverly never fully describes but hints is a combination of music, dance, philosophy, debating and religion. Like Richard Wagner's bombastic classical music in real-life Austria in the 1930s, this artistic expression is considered part of the "national culture" of our unnamed country, with the newly minted fascist government in charge trying to politicize the endeavor and putting more and more pressure on the school to get on board with it.Whew! Okay, so that gets you to page 1 of the novel itself; for far from this being any kind of spoiler, what I've just described is merely the backdrop on which our actual story itself takes place, which has to do with the complicated relationship one young and rapidly rising administrator in this fascist party has with not only the grand jeu and its school but the political party itself, coming off as a sort of fictionalized Albert Speer who is happy to use the party for his own gain but feels morally troubled about the harsh ethnic-cleansing edges of their policies, and who had some sort of terrible thing happen to him when he was a celebrated student at the school himself, who most had thought would go on to a professional career as a game designer but who abruptly joined this fascist party right after graduating for reasons most can't figure out.That's what our story is mainly about, understanding through both present-day scenes and a full half of the book in flashback what exactly happened to this promising game master to make him eventually turn his back on the pursuit, and how this will affect him as an adult now that he's been dispatched against his will back to the mountain fortress/academy to serve as the party's in-house spy. And that, needless to say, is equally fascinating and unique as the background, but is best saved for a surprise which is why I won't mention any more. What can be said, though, is that the betrayals of the book's title are many and varied, with Collins delightfully dancing her nimble literary fingers on top of all kinds of issues that have to do with the subject -- romantic relationships (both straight and gay), political devotion, one's promises to their own younger self, and all kinds of other interesting, unexpected nods here and there. It's utterly captivating, as long as you can get into the spirit of it (I saw many other Goodreaders who instead just found it too confusing and gave up, and admittedly you have to have some patience and a natural love for speculative literature to fully get into this), and most importantly is utterly, completely unlike any other book of the 2,500 or so I've now read, which in this day and age is always worth celebrating just on its own, even more so when the book turns out to be great like is the case here. A novel that will easily make my "best reads of the year" list come December, it now strongly has me interested in going back and reading her debut novel as well, the similar alt-history speculative story The Binding (apparently taking place in an unnamed nation that feels vaguely like Victorian England). As always, check back here later in the year for my review of that, but for now get yours hands on this captivating latest as soon as you can.
4552251329	okay so i just lied to all of you. i do not have an iron-clad will to finish this book. in fact, i'm DNFing at 60% 💀this book is one of the biggest let downs in a long time for me. i adored The Binding when i read it in 2020 in my early pandemic brain haze. for The Betrayals.....i have no words*. i almost want to go back to The Binding and check to see if i was having some sort of break from reality because this cannot be by the same author. i was excited to read this when it came out but i held it off because there seemed to be a hate/love reaction to it. sadly, i am the former.(view spoiler)[so there are four pov characters and the only one i found remotely tolerable was the girl that lives in the walls like a rat. léo, both his past epistolary self and his present self, are grating and unbelievably difficult to get into the rhythms of. he is constantly angry or depressed or frustratingly bland. claire is similarly irritating and has very little to do other than string the 'twist reveal' along with vague allusions to her past and her brother. the interactions between these two are painful to read and they just despise each other for no good reason (particularly on léo's part) until they are irritable acquaintances. and even then they don't remotely like each other and find fault and offence in every tiny gesture. this is mirrored in the one-sided diary musings of léo on claire's 'brother', who he had a big ol' gay crush on at school. you can tell that ms collins was going for a Enemies To Lovers vibe here but actually it's just really pissing annoying and you want to smack them both around the head. anyway, even though i DNF'd, i'm still rooting for you, rat girl! go rat girl!**the world building in The Binding is a little off, i'll admit that. but it gets away with it largely because of the nature of the magic in that world. it makes sense that everything feels a little blurred and unreal. The Betrayals has no such excuse. though this is obviously a parallel France during the early 20th century and the rise of totalitarian governments, there's just so much lacking. collins treats 'The Party' in the same way she treats 'the grand jeu', the 'game' that everyone is studying but no one ever explains. these important story elements are written about with almost flippant disregard. it's confusing from a reader's perspective and you feel foolish for even expecting that these things will be fleshed out. i may only have read 60% but i could not honestly tell you what this 'grand jeu' is other than it seems like a solo chess game + maths + music + themes?? i'm still confused, i'm going to have to go to bed mad about this.and then once you move past the fact that the central topic of the book is never truly explained, you get the the icky stuff! i've mentioned that this book is set in an alternate timeline France during the rise of a fascist*** government that discriminates against christians. there's something about that that feels distinctly off to me, particularly since (in my reading of the book and spoiler-heavy reviews) there never seems to be an explanation as to why it's christians that are political targets in this parallel universe. idk...i just feel that there has to be a certain amount of purpose and nuance to narrative backdrops that are clearly based on nazi germany, particularly if you are going to replace jewish people with a different group. this did not have it.i'd guessed some gender hijinks had gone on with the whole 'claire looks soooo much like her very sexy brother omg xxx' spiel from léo's pov, but i was Hoping that it might be that carfax was trans and had become claire later in life. unfortunately, just as i was starting to think that we get a half chapter about claire's bleeding and ruminations on her menstrual cycle and how it doesn't allow her to GirlBoss effectively. and from there the gender stuff gets more fundamental and just unpleasant to read. i don't want to know how collins wraps up the 'claire was her brother all along!!!" reveal, i'm too tired of the relentless misogyny from léo and bizarre, pearl-clutching tone of claire when she comments on her Womanhood.so...yes. i did not like this book. it was a let down, a horrible one. i feel lighter for having made the decision to stop reading, mainly because i never have to read the words 'grand jeu' again.*yes, i know this review is long.**i would def read a Rat short story about a feral child living in the walls of a prestigious school, i'll give this book that praise.***again, this is never 100% confirmed but léo does talk about one guy being found out as a leftist and getting his head kicked in. (hide spoiler)]
4319529666	I'd previously read the author's other book, The Binding, but unfortunately I enjoyed this one a little less. The book is set in 2 time periods centred around 3 characters - Leo ("now" and as a student via his diaries), Claire The Magister Ludi and the Rat. Leo is a disgraced politician who has been sent to Montverre as punishment and to observe Claire, the Magister Ludi. Montverre is some kind of college where students study the grand jeu. The Rat is a character that lives in the walls of Montverre. On a good note the book was well written and maintained a mysterious atmosphere throughout. However there was a level of ambiguity throughout the book which doesn't sit well with me, as I'm the type of reader who likes to understand the premise of what I am reading - for example the time period was vague, and I'm still not sure what the grand jeu actually is. Overall it was a slow read, with largely unlikeable characters. I think for a lot of readers this book will be marmite - for me I didn't really enjoy it so it's a 2 star rating. Thanks to Net Galley and Harper Collins UK for an advance copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
4444539847	¿Os ha pasado alguna vez con un libro que queréis que avance pero al mismo tiempo, no queréis que se termine? Pues esta ha sido mi sensación con este libro. Me he visto tan sumergida en su historia que no deseaba salir de ella.Antes de hablar del libro, me gustaría hacer una mención sobre la edición y es que es preciosa. Es un libro que compraría solamente por lo bonito que es por fuera. Para descubrir después, que también lo es por dentro.Montverre, una academia masculina donde se estudia El Gran Juego (una combinación de arte, música, matemática e ideas) es el eje central de la historia contada en dos tiempos a través de tres voces:Leo: Un antiguo estudiante de Montverre expulsado del partido político y exiliado a la academia, quien deberá enfrentarse a sus propios fantasmas dentro de esos muros.El Diario de Leo: Donde nos cuenta su tiempo como estudiante. Entendemos mejor el juego, como funcionaba la escuela y sobre todo, su relación con Carfax, su gran rival cuando les obligan a trabajar juntos.La Magister Ludi: Actual profesora de El Gran Juego. Una mujer enigmática, inteligente, fuerte, con férreas convicciones y muchos fantasmas.La Rata: Un personaje extraño y diferente pero que jugará un papel fundamental.Todo ello, con una narrativa impresionante. La pluma de la autora es rica en matices, preciosa, elegante y capaz de transmitir sensaciones con una habilidad desbordante. Una ambientación Dark Academia capaz de envolverte y transportarte al lugar como si fueras parte de ese mundo, como si también te encontraras en Montverré.Siento que mi experiencia con este libro ha sido mágica. Los personajes, bien construidos, con luces y sombras, con sus errores y aciertos. El toque político, con su Ley de Pureza, que asfixia cada vez que alguien lo menciona. Leo y Carfax, mi parte favorita han sido ellos dos. Porque sin mirarse, sin tocarse, sin hablarse apenas, solo estando en una habitación me hacían sentir de todo. Es imposible que este libro os deje indiferentes. Leedlo, vividlo y Sentidlo.
5270168296	“If everything in your life was based on a lie, would you risk it all to tell the truth?” I don’t even know how to start this review because this book was a mess in every way. The story takes place in Montverre, an exclusive academy for boys to be trained in the grand jeu, a game that encompasses different areas of study such as mathematics, religion, music, philosophy, etc. Through two different timelines, the story is told from three different points of view: Léo, a former student who returns after being forced out of the Party (the government); Claire, the first female Magister Ludi at the academy; and the Rat, a mysterious girl hidden in Montverre. This sort of an alternate historical fiction left me with more questions than answers. What is the grand jeu about? Why are Christians persecuted? What interest does the Party have in Montverre? With vague and imprecise explanations, the author leaves these answers to the reader’s imagination. And let’s not even talk about the big reveal. It also didn’t help that the characters were completely dislikable, especially Léo: an elitist, smug misogynist. Added to all this, some of the comments rubbed me the wrong way, since they seemed kind of gender essentialists—which now that I’ve discovered that the author liked transphobic tweets in the past, makes it even worse.Instagram | Twitter
3572839865	Bridget Collins's first novel for adults, The Binding, was one of my favourite reads of 2019. Its structure worked so perfectly with its themes, and it combined YA energy with quieter, more reflective prose. Her follow-up, The Betrayals, is both more uneven and more ambitious. Inspired by Hermann Hesse's The Glass Bead Game, it imagines an isolated school, Montverre, where young men train in the mysterious art of the 'grand jeu', a combination of mathematics, music and philosophy, writing their own games and observing others. (The precise nature of the 'grand jeu' is, cleverly, never fully revealed to the reader, and we're allowed to imagine what exactly it looks like). The narrative is principally divided into three alternating voices: that of Claire, the 'Magister Ludi' or 'Master of the Game', who is the first woman to oversee Montverre; ex-politician Léo Martin, who has been exiled to Montverre for (weakly) opposing an increasingly totalitarian government; and ten-year-old diary entries from the time when Léo was a student at the school.Structurally, The Betrayals doesn't work nearly as well as The Binding. The only chapters I found truly captivating before the midpoint were Léo's diary entries - told in first-person, they had a charm and immediacy that the other narratives lacked. About halfway through, the diary entries start to interweave more closely with Claire and Léo's present-day narratives, and the plot becomes totally gripping. However, I was still baffled by the other stray narrative voice in this book, that of the Rat, a girl who secretly lives within the walls of Montverre after her illegitimate birth. I skimmed her chapters, which I found cliched, and felt they could be entirely excised from the novel without really affecting it, even though she does start to have more impact on the plot near the end.Nevertheless, I think Collins has, once again, pulled off something special here, even if The Betrayals isn't quite as good as her adult debut. The way she writes about the grand jeu is really memorable, and I loved how Claire and Léo's story was pulled together in the final pages. This book reminded me quite strongly of Elisabeth Thomas's Catherine House - which I know has been quite divisive but which I personally liked a lot - with its arcane rites and obsessive scholars. It's a beautifully atmospheric and original read, and I'm looking forward to whatever Collins writes next.I received a free copy of this novel from the publisher for review.
4686323303	CW: Die Autorin teilt offenbar das transphobe Gedankengut der TERF-Fraktion. Bei Interesse: Befragt einfach Google; ihr findet dann die entsprechenden Blogbeiträge anderer Bookies. Da TERFs wirklich einer der großen Flüche unserer Zeit sind, möchte ich euch an dieser Stelle dazu anhalten „Das große Spiel“ nur gebraucht zu kaufen, sollte es euch interessieren. KurzrezensionIn einem Land, das von einer Partei regiert wird, deren Methoden an die der Nationalsozialisten gegen Ende der Weimarer Republik erinnern, kehrt ein in Ungnade gefallener Minister an den Ort zurück, der seinen Lebensweg vor zwanzig Jahren geprägt hat. Eine Zeit voller Potential und voll grenzenlosen Egoismus'. Das Jungeninternat Montverre ist das pulsierende Herz des so genannten „Grand Jeu“ – des Spiels, in dem sich Musik, Mathematik und Träume zu einer besonderen Kombination vereinen. Das Juwel des Landes, der Stolz der Nation, der Spiegel der von der Partei erzwungenen "Reinheit". Dort trifft Leo auf Claire, die Magister Ludi (Spielemeisterin). Dort kehrt die Vergangenheit zurück und fordert Vergeltung. Bridget Collins entwirft ein typisches Dark Academia Setting: Düstere Gothic-Vibes, unzuverlässige Erzähler*innen, Todesfälle und eine unterschwellige, von der Regierung ausgehende Gefahr prägen die Erzählung, die zwischen der Gegenwart und Rückblenden in die einstige Schulzeit des Protagonisten wechselt. Das Spinnen von Intrigen, der Verrat durch geliebte Menschen und das Geheim- bzw. Zurückhalten von Informationen sind die großen Themen des Romans. Den größten Spaß bereitet hat mir das Mitraten und -rätseln. Der Roman eignet sich aufgrund dieses Elements bestens für Lesegruppen :) Die größten Schwächen sehe ich im stellenweise extrem unzureichenden Weltenbau. Angefangen beim „Grand Jeu“ (für das es keine wirkliche Erklärung gibt) über die machthabende Partei (eine Art faschistische Regierung, die anscheinend Christen verfolgt) bis hin zu einer Nebenfigur, der zwar eigene Kapitel gewidmet werden, deren rätselhafte Existenz aber nicht zufriedenstellend aufgeklärt wird. Auch die Entwicklung einer Liebesgeschichte, die wirklich tolle Momente und ganz viel Potential gehabt hätte, ist gegen Ende eher ins Banale abgerutscht.
4868493022	Cuando entienda qué es lo que estoy sintiendo, hablaré del libro.(👆🏻 eso lo escribí en el 2022)3 años y este libro sigue volviéndome loca, es maravilloso, es uno de esos libros que tenés que leer mas de una vez para poder disfrutarlo porque lo mejor esta en los detalles. Quiero leerlo un millón de veces.
3842216581	Wtf
3970258804	damn 😪
4379805171	3.5 🍀 “De pronto me quedé muy serio. Al fin noté esa sensación mareante, prometedora en el estómago, el latido del corazón, el escalofrío. Una idea. Era como enamorarse.”Aquí les traigo mi opinión sobre esta preciosidad “La traición de Montverre” de Bridget Collins, autora de El encuadernador. Nos encontramos con una historia completamente distinta, una academia donde los mejores estudiantes aprenden el arte del grand jeu, una competición que alterna arte, matemáticas, música y demás destrezas.El libro se estructura por capítulos dedicados a los dos grandes protagonistas Léo, un político que estudió en el Montverre, la Magister Ludi, una de las profesoras de la escuela, también tenemos capítulos donde se nos muestran fragmentos del diario de Léo de joven, durante su estancia en la exigente academia y por último, tenemos capítulos donde La Rata, un misterioso personaje, nos habla de manera un tanto confusa.Es imposible comentar mucho sobre este libro sin caer en spoilers, nos cuenta una historia con un trasfondo donde se toca la política, la religión, la evidente desventaja de las mujeres frente a los hombres, la competitividad, los prejuicios frente a los problemas de salud mental y aspectos bastante sombríos relacionados con los actos humanos, entre otras cosas. Pero a la vez, nos cuenta una historia de amor. Es imposible no caer rendida con la pluma de la autora, es capaz de crear una atmósfera atrapante, a veces oscura y otras, luminosa. En ocasiones te sientes perdido, sin entender qué está pasando, hasta que al final todo cobra sentido y sabes que eso es exactamente lo que pretendía la autora.Puntos negativos: ritmo algo lento, poca información sobre los juegos en general y la autora tiende a dejar los finales algo abiertos.Puntos positivos: los claroscuros de los personajes, los fragmentos del diario de Léo, la historia de amor, los diálogos,…Te recomiendo leerlo si te gustó El encuadernador, si te gustan las historias con ambientación Dark Academia, con una trama bien llevada pero que supone un ligero reto lector.“Es un gesto moderno de arrogancia imaginar que la divinidad que anhelamos alcanzar con el grand jeu es mejor, o tal vez distinta, que las deidades de otras regiones. Una forma más joven de venerar no es necesariamente una forma mejor, ni tampoco la única.”“Lo que más odio de él es la persona en la que me convierte.”
5715592507	The Betrayals is an absolutely beautifully written narrative. While it did take me a while to wrap my head around what was going on, I quite enjoyed it despite how abstract this was, and the atmosphere was fantastic.
5105436398	Excelente, porém eu sabia que o final ia ser agridoce (bem mais azedo do que doce), e daí me recuso a dar cinco estrelas, porque me parece muito fácil terminar um livro com todo mundo na merda para ele ser reconhecido como um livro bom.
3729896909	This was such a difficult book to but a number of stars on. I so desperately wanted it to be a five star and up until around the last hundred pages, it nearly was. I won’t comment strongly on the ending as I feel you have to read it to have an opinion. I loved the flashback diary chapters as these were the pages that contained the most development of characters. The rest of the POVs seemed to fall flat and a few aspects that kept coming up eg Chryseis (however her name is spelled) just seemed a bit pointless. If anything despite how strongly I felt about the characters up to a certain point, I was left feeling incredibly annoyed by this book. So in conclusion, this just scrapes a 3 star.
7304894876	Slow burn but engaging
3764521394	It took me a while to get into the world and make sense of it, but after that, this was really good. I did not see where it was headed and I’m happy with that.
4358279957	very atmospheric and i could not put this down - but can i explain what the grand jeju is? absolutely not
4439762949	Para mi, hay cosas que son claves que igual y soy muy torpe, porque necesito que se expliquen con palitos y manzanas. Porque sino no lo veo. Para mi todo tiene un eje central que es El Grand Jeu. Se toman filósofos, obras de música, de arte, literatura... pero... la base del juego, en qué consite, ¿para qué sirve? No se me explica. ¿Es un juego político? Se crean líderes mundiales? No tengo idea, porque o bien en la mente de la autora estaba claro o... admito mi despiste, no me enteré... porque todo este tiempo he tenido la sensación que no me enteraba de cosas vitales con respecto a esto, que para mi es una base para comprender el porqué existe tanta competencia y porqué dos rivales pueden odiarse tanto y anhelar ambos la misma cosas.... Y un juego puede hacer más.Por otro lado, me hubiese gustado que la ambientación temporal en primer lugar nos dejará claro desde el inicio que puede ser una distopía. No es la primera vez que la autora juega con esa basa y no me molesta. Pero si me chocó que no me preparase para ello hasta que me encuentro con ciertas situaciones que me dejaron ojiplática. Mi angustia de ir totalmente a ciegas sin una guía me dejaba más que curiosa.. angustiada y esa sensación se iba acrecentando.Otro punto es que me pareció excesivamente plano. Tardé muchísimo más de lo acostumbrado en leer, buscaba algo que me hiciese gritar emocionada por un giro argumental trascendente, pero es que no sucedió, y los pocos secretos que se van contando ya los había desentrañado desde el principio lo que me dejó una sensación de desasosiego terrible. Tengo una sensación de sentirme tonta de no entender los puntos que me eran más importantes y aún sigo intentando digerir si lo demás me ha gustado. Además de que hay un exceso de descripción ambiental y sensorial que me sobraba en páginas. ¿Es todo malo en LA TRAICIÓN DE MONTVERRE? Supongo que no. La construcción de personajes es algo que la autora se pinta sola, Nuestros cuatro protagonistas son fluidos cuando se encuentran y hablan, uno de ellos me tenía hambrienta de sus capítulos y por otro lado, también debo decir que la autora es fina y elegante al escribir, quizá por eso no dejaba esta historia, pero se que no ha sido lo mejor que he leído de ella.¿Volveré a leer a Bridget Collins? Si, necesito hacer las paces con ella. El hecho que no hayamos acertado en este encuentro no quiere decir que le ponga la cruz. Es un pequeño desencuentro que seguro queda olvidado cuando vuelvan nuestros pasos a estar frente a frente. ¡Feliz lectura!
3577611517	It’s the 1930’s Leo Martin has worked his way up. Born a son of a scrap yard owner he became the Minister of Culture after graduating from the prestigious academy Montverre, where the scholars play a game called the Grand jeu. Honing the skills of Mathematics, philosophy, music and religion. But after disagreeing some polices; he is exiled back to Montverre. The story delves back into past when he first became a student at the academy and built his reputation and passed with flying colours. Earning a gold medal for his work. And the difference of his present days at the academy.Thank you, Harper Collins, and NetGalley fer a copy of The Betrayals by Bridget Collins. I love The Binding, so I was looking forward to reading this. Unfortunately, though I could not finish this book. Don’t get me wrong this is is not a bad book. It is beautifully written, and others liked it But, I found it slow and I don’t think I was the target audience for this book. I did not find this subject of this book interesting. Three stars from me.
3788112867	The last third of this book slapped me in the face repeatedly with emotional turning points. I was trying to think of a good word to describe the way that the relationship between the two main characters kept shifting and then I was like oh yeah, duh, betrayals, they keep betraying each other in increasingly intimate ways. Collins did an excellent job of keeping the grim politics of the world at the forefront even as the central drama of the novel was almost completely divorced from it. I would’ve been willing to read way more backstory about the fascist yet strangely atheistic consolidation of power going on in pseudo-France, but I understand how that would’ve weighed down the prose a bit. I am equal parts frustrated and amused that after 400 pages of detailed description of the grand jeu I still have no clue what it is. Maybe it was the friends we made along the way.
3638296352	** spoiler alert ** I so loved The Binding and I was really trying to enjoy this but it fell super flat for me. The world of the 'grand jeu' and the rise of 'the party' were never fully realised, and I would have let that slide if the main characters made it worthwhile but I found them all exhausting. The romance between Leo and Carfax seemed to just be a shadow of the romance from The Binding but with far less power or heart. The endless misogyny of Leo made him far too unlikeable and it completely undercut his later romance with Claire. I also felt like the book was trying way too hard to lean into the whole ~dark academia~ aesthetic and it just came off as irritating and pretentious.
3295016856	[6.14/10] I finished this book yesterday and I decided not to immediately rate it because I needed to sit with it for a while. In concept, atmosphere and writing this was a 5 star read for me, but the rating was impacted by the intentionally vague worldbuilding, which was certainly a choice that will work for some people and infuriate other people. I think if you're the kind of person who doesn't go into a book expecting absolutes, you'll have a good time with The Betrayals. However, if there is any small part of you that expects the world aspect to be fleshed out - even in a metaphorical or figurative way - then The Betrayals is going to be a bit like pulling teeth. The general set-up is that there are multiple timelines with alternating POVs. The flashbacks and some present day timelines are from the POV of Léo, then the additional POVs are both set in present day from a Magister (a sort of teacher character) and a mysterious character named The Rat. In the flashback timeline we follow Léo and his frenemy Carfax at the Montverre school(?) as they create a plan for a national competition known as the Grand Jeu. There is a tragic event that occurs in the flashback timeline that then feeds into some of the major tensions in the present-day timelines. Léo's present-day timeline follows his mandated return to the school as he is now a disgraced politician and the dystopian-like rulers The Party have sent him back to Montverre for some reason. The POV from the Magister is in direct conflict with present-day Léo, but present-day Léo doesn't really know this and then when he does he doesn't really know why - this ends up being the point of the overall plot. Then The Rat POV in the present-day seems like a very odd addition to the flow of the story until they reveal their purpose closer to the end. It's all quite convoluted really. I was really quite into it for the first two acts. The alternating timelines and character dynamics reminded me of Vicious and the pursuit of knowledge reminded me of Middlegame, which are two books that I really love. The writing style was incredibly atmospheric, which I knew from reading Collins's previous book The Binding, but also reminds me a lot of some of my favourite lyrical writers like Erin Morgenstern, Alix E. Harrow and Laini Taylor. However, someone like Erin Morgenstern very much focuses on leaving her stories open for interpretation with lovely tidbits of foreshadowing and metaphor to glom onto, to the point where you can feel satisfied with the story because all of the answers are there if you want to look hard enough. Bridget Collins leaves all of the big questions entirely up to the reader's imagination, which is fine if there are bread crumbs but if there was a trail to follow in this book I certainly didn't see it. The Grand Jeu, which is almost like a 5th POV character in the book it is that prevalent, is never explained. We get some vague references to music, mathematics, game boards, performance and a reference to The Glass Bead Game as a major influence in the author's note. But, we never find out what the purpose of the whole thing is or what the characters are trying to achieve by winning the game. This was the most frustrating thing about the whole book, for me. The dystopian rulers The Party are referenced often but we never really learn anything about what they're trying to achieve by sending Léo back to Montverre, nor how/why they got into power and what the world looks like because they're in power. There was a point in the novel were I thought Montverre was supposed to be a reimagining of Bohemian Grove and the Grand Jeu was the ritualistic element for the ruling class to maintain their hold on the power that they already have. I was almost convinced of this because of the references to spider webs and the real motto for Bohemian Grove being 'Weaving Spiders Come Not Here.' And, if it was supposed to be a commentary on classism in academia and politics those ideas felt like they never came to fruition because the worldbuilding wasn't strong enough to realise them. In theory, the weird, unfinished-ness of this book is exactly my taste and I do want to stress that I truly enjoyed the majority of the reading experience, mainly due to the writing and atmosphere but also because I really love reading about unlikable characters. In addition, I so actually quite like coming away from a book with a lot of questions because I adore discussing theories with friends, yet the questions I come away with from The Betrayals are more frustrating than anything else. There's nothing to have a discussion about because the text doesn't really give us enough to go on. I will definitely be picking up whatever Collins puts out next though.
3644043781	Having been one of many booksellers who absolutely adored The Binding, I received my free reading copy of The Betrayals with great excitement. It was impossible not to compare it to The Binding while reading, but Collins has brought a truly original story to the table once again, which absolutely stands up alongside her amazing debut, and is a fantastic novel in its own right. Her world-building in this is so incredibly strong that a day after finishing the book I am still wandering the halls of Montverre! Rich and moving, with compelling characters and wonderful writing, The Betrayals is a real achievement. I loved it.
3707636326	The story is okay, but I'm just so annoyed at the fact that nothing is explained. I still don't have a clear idea what the grand jeu is, why the government is so invested and why it's so important. It's like reading Lord of The Rings without knowing why the ring is important, what Mordor is or what Hobbits are. It's annoying and lazy, the author clearly does have an idea about the game, so why not make the effort to try and explain to the readers what it is?! This book is a waste of time.
3898236230	I adored this book. The foreshadowing was perfect and the characters really well thought out. Beautiful descriptions and gripping even though the characters barely move from the same building. Wonderful.
2922622596	The Binding by Bridget Collins was a reading highlight in 2019 and I loved it so much it made my Top 5 Books of 2019 list. As soon as I learned a new book The Betrayals was being published in 2020, it immediately became one of my most hotly anticipated books of the year. I even placed a pre-order so that I could enjoy the limited edition signed hardcopy with gold foiling and sprayed edges from Waterstones.I can't remember the last time I pre-ordered a book but I also requested a review copy, so desperate was I to get my hands on this as soon as it came out. I hoped The Betrayals would whisk me away into another magical bookish world and deliver a repeat five star reading experience. The Betrayals by Bridget Collins is hard to define. It reads like a college style campus novel, taking place as it does in an all male academy called Montverre located in a remote and mountainous countryside. At times it felt like a combination of Dead Poets Society with a dash of the Harry Potter series (for the Hogwarts setting and syllabus, not the magic).However, it's also kind of dystopian as the oppressive party politics of the day are different to our own, with a growing lack of tolerance for those of a particular faith that begins to infiltrate the academy.The students are there to study the grand jeu which is a series of movements that flow together to form a performance of intellectual expression. Students study mathematics, music and a tonne of arcane subjects that definitely gave me Harry Potter vibes. Students spend months writing and practising their grand jeu and compete with each other to achieve the highest marks.Leo Martin is a politician and our protagonist, and at the beginning of the book he finds himself ousted from the political party and sent to Montverre in disgrace. The narrative also includes diary entries and scenes from Leo's time as a student at the academy and secrets and old heartbreaks from that time are gradually revealed.There is plenty to admire about the grand jeu, but of course it's up to the reader to imagine the movements and the overall impact of the performance on the audience. In my mind, it took the form of an intellectual Tai chi, but that's because I lack any further imagination.This is a coming-of-age romance novel set in an undetermined time and location that straddles multiple genres, including historical fiction, urban fantasy and dystopian fiction. The character struggles were real but the academy setting was the real highlight, with secret passages, countless windows, attic spaces, hidey holes and oh, those libraries! However, by the end of the last page, I wasn't able to relive the magical five star reading experience that was The Binding. Perhaps it's an unfair comparison, but when you've greatly enjoyed a special book, it does create a certain level of hope and expectation for whatever is to follow from the author.What is certain, is that The Betrayals by Bridget Collins is a glorious book that I will look at lovingly on my shelves in years to come. Not only for the stunning book cover design that is easily my favourite of 2020, but for the promise it contained. * Copy courtesy of Harper Collins *
3715338652	“The grand jeu is not a game. It is the opposite of a game. It is our way of paying attention to something outside ourselves. And what is outside ourselves - whatever truly exists is the divine. We remake the world so that we can submit to it; and what we encounter, the act of playing the grand jeu, is the truth.”...Léo Martin, the son of an industrialist, is accepted to Montverre Academy to learn the grand jeu “an arcane and mysterious contest.” Léo’s game is all show and artifice, but when he is paired with Carfax, a boy whose family have been playing the grand jeu for centuries, the game they create together wins them the gold medal in their second year. When Léo leaves school, he joins the ranks of The Party and rises quickly through the ranks until he makes the mistake of criticising party policy and is sent back to Montverre in disgraceIn beautiful prose, Bridget Collins paints a world where cultural freedom is threatened by a totalitarian political ideology that targets minority groups. Even in Montverre, political masignations play out and Léo finds himself unwittingly drawn into a struggle to control the Grand Jeu. Like a game of chess, each player makes their move and counter move, each has an agenda and each is prepared to betray their friends and lovers for personal gain or to settle a score. The only character that portrays loyalty is “The Rat,” a little girl so dehumanised by her treatment, that she thinks of herself as a rodent surviving in the walls of the castleDeftly weaving together two narratives and timelines, this has all the beauty of The Binding with even more skill. There was a monumental twist that was well done! My only frustration was a lack of clarity around the Grand Jeu itself. There was reference to it being a celebration of the divine, but little context for this outside of the world of Montverre, making it difficult to understand why is was a contest worth controlling. If you can suspend your disbelief around this, then you can watch the story unspool as the characters find the price they’re willing to pay for success or revengeThank you to the publisher for this beautiful copy of The Betrayals.
4525491061	Léo es degradado del partido político que ayudó a llegar al poder, debido a su oposición a la implementación de una política radical. Es exiliado a su antiguo colegio, para servir de espía. Allí conoce a la primera Magister Ludi que ha tenido la escuela, y siente una conexión innegable hacia ella.~~~Pasé dos tercios del libro sufriendo. Ya tenía ideada una reseña muy dura sobre La Traición de Montverre... pero entonces leí el 30 % restante y quedé maravillada. ¿Valió la pena el sufrimiento? Definitivamente SÍ.Empezamos de lleno en la historia, sin explicaciones del mundo ni de cómo Léo ha caído en desgracia por su consciencia moral que va en contra de las nuevas políticas de su partido. Solo sabemos que ahora es un indeseado y debe refugiarse en su antiguo colegio Montverre, fingiendo estudiar y actuando como marioneta, o corre el riesgo de que lo hagan desaparecer. Ni el rechazo de su casi prometida ni el futuro brillante que ha dejado de existir le causan más pesar que tener que volver a Montverre, donde diez años antes vivió una época feliz y estimulante, hasta que una tragedia aconteció y se vio lanzado a una espiral de culpa y dolor.Léo es un hombre arrogante, debe ser el mejor en todo y no soporta que hombres inferiores ahora tengan el poder de su destino en sus manos. Regresa a Montverre porque no le queda alternativa, y allí conoce a la primera magister mujer, en un colegio exclusivamente de varones. La camaradería casi hostil que surge entre ambos despierta sensaciones en Léo que no había experimentado en más de diez años... cuando tuvo una rivalidad y luego amistad y enamoramiento con uno de sus compañeros, Aimé Carfax, pero eso no terminó bien.Claire sabe que tiene mucho que demostrar a sus compañeros magister y a la sociedad en general, como la primera mujer que juega el grand jeu en un puesto importante. Se opone firmemente a la presencia de Léo en el colegio, porque sabe que es un espía del partido gobernante, que busca manipular el grand jeu a su conveniencia. Aunque la historia de locura de su familia la mantiene constantemente alerta, la forma en que Léo reta su intelecto empieza a atraerla inevitablemente. Pero teniendo en su poder el diario de Léo (de sus días escolares) lo conoce mejor que nadie y sabe que no se puede confiar en él.Casi inconexo, conocemos a la Rata, una chica que vive escondida entre los muros de la escuela, robando comida y ropa. Ha pasado años perfeccionando sus sentidos para que no la atrapen, pero poco a poco se nos van desvelando detalles de su trágico pasado. Así, con tres puntos de vista diferentes, además de las entradas del diario antiguo de Léo, se desgrana la historia a dos tiempos, el presente con la creciente atracción entre Léo y Claire, y el pasado en los recuerdos de la Rata y en la vida escolar de Léo, donde de las páginas cobra vida Aimé, el genio que sobresalió en el grand jeu, cuyos antepasados lo condenaron a la burla de sus compañeros, pero en quien Léo pudo encontrar un rival, amigo, confidente y primer amor. Conforme las páginas pasan, llegamos a quererlo, a apreciarlo, a sentir simpatía por él y sufrimos porque avanza la cuenta regresiva para la tragedia.Mi gran conflicto con la trama fue el hecho de que la atracción de Léo hacia Claire se deba casi exclusivamente a que le recuerda mucho a Carfax (sí, lo llaman por su apellido casi todo el libro). Su apariencia, su genialidad, su personalidad, pero lo que no se atrevió a hacer en el pasado con él, ahora quiere intentarlo con ella. ¿Se trata de una segunda oportunidad para seguir sus verdaderos sentimientos o es porque ella es mujer y es una opción segura? A su vez, Claire conoce íntimamente a Léo por haber leído su diario y sus piezas escolares, algo a lo que no tiene derecho. ¿Cómo el lector puede emocionarse por el desarrollo del romance en el presente cuando estamos leyendo al mismo tiempo el del pasado y sabemos cómo acabó? Esa unión de ambos me parecía una simple excusa para lavar sus culpas. El título del libro se me asemejó a la explicación de la trama: Claire y Léo estaban unidos por su traición a Aimé, un hombre vapuleado y enfermo que fue dejado a su suerte, traicionado por las dos personas en quienes confiaba... PEEEEEERO No podía estar más equivocada. Y entonces llegó un giro de la trama que me tomó totalmente desprevenida y erradicó mis malos conceptos y pensamientos sobre los protagonistas... que de villanos detestables pasaron a ser simples seres humanos que cometen errores. Todo cobra sentido y no hay porqué sufrir más.A la par que se desarrolla todo el drama dentro de Montverre, tenemos vistazos de la política racista y clasista que se está apoderando del país y pone en riesgo incluso al colegio mismo. Un par de personajes secundarios aparecen poco, pero tienen peso a lo largo de toda la trama, solo su nombre es indicio de que las cosas están por ponerse feas. Lo que puede resultar un tanto confuso es el otro gran protagonista de la historia: el grand jeu ¿qué es eso y por qué lo llaman el juego nacional? Aunque no se dan explicaciones extensas, leyendo las prácticas y sobre las clases, se logra entender que es una especie de mezcla entre música, matemáticas, filosofía y otras disciplinas. Todo el tiempo me lo imaginé como una sinfonía compleja capaz de emitir emociones y color cuando se interpreta, y el libro está clasificado como "Realismo Mágico", así que creo que tal vez sea incluso más complejo que eso.Tal como el otro libro que he leído de la autora, El Encuadernador, el final es abierto, pero lejos de dejar inconforme, da la sensación de que lo que acabamos de leer es solo el inicio del resto de la vida de los personajes. Superado este conflicto, tienen una vida por vivir.¿Qué Disfruté?Toda la narración es hermosa, cautivante, atrayente, llena de matices y pistas. Conduce al lector exactamente por donde quiere, dando retazos aquí y allá para que cada quien vaya sacando sus conclusiones (aunque luego resulten erradas). Sufrí, pero seguí leyendo embelesada.¿Qué Prefiero Olvidar?El clima político de trasfondo es muy oscuro, me dio mucha rabia leer las injusticias a las que nadie puede oponerse.CitasExtendió el brazo y posó la palma en mi muñeca—. Siente su peso.No me moví. Tenía la mano caliente, huesuda, como… Oh, no sé a qué se parecía, solo era su mano. Una mano, eso es todo. Pero nunca antes había sido tan consciente de que mi piel era lo único que me separaba del universo.
6895513143	Many thanks to Jonathan Ball Publishers for sending me a copy in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.After reading The Silence Factory, and loving it, a couple of months ago, I have been looking forward to this ever since. I do not have The Binding nor have I read it.This is a story about an arcane and mysterious game, called the grand jeu, and the people who make it, teach it and play it; most specifically, the masters at Montverre Academy (where only the best and brightest are trained for excellence).The plot follows Leo (and various others) as he is disgraced as the Minister for Culture and is sent back to Montverre to study the game and, hopefully, make amends. This is a story of intrigue not action, more character- than plot-driven; it is atmospheric and, at times, immersive.From what I can tell from the two books I've read so far, Collins seems to have bisexual themes for her main characters, and I am here for it.The problem I had with this, though, is that I don't understand what the game is - was the author being deliberately obtuse? - other than a mix of music, poetry, mathematics, and religion with its own language, movements and gestures. BUT NEVER IS THE GAME ACTUALLY PLAYED! This almost made me put this book aside.However, there was plenty of intrigue for me to continue the story and the characters were great.Rating: 3.5 stars
4448097227	Nota: 4-4.5Bridget Collins me engatusó con 'El encuadernador' y lo ha vuelto a hacer con este libro y es que de verdad, no puedo expresar el arte y la inteligencia que muestra esta mujer en la forma de crear su historias. Es una genia ✨Lo primero es que es imposible hablar de la trama de esta historia sin soltar spoilers (así que no lo haré) básicamente porque el encanto radica en las cartas que se guarda la autora, en los secretos que decide contarte en el momento justo y mientras te mangonea cual marioneta con una pluma suave y delicada con un toque de misterio que despierta todos tus sentidos.Es que me parece arte lo que hace esta mujer. Primero por cómo te engatusa sin tener absolutamente ni idea de lo que va la historia, y después por cómo te introduce en la historia y te hace vivirlo.Los feels que me ha dado este libro son impresionantes. Ya no es lo la exquisita pluma y la forma cuidada y controlada sin perder el ritmo con el que lleva la historia. Es también los mensajes crudos que suelta, como te lleva por el camino de la amargura, te da esperanzas, te desgarra y te hace feliz. La capacidad de la autora para transmitir sentimientos me abruma, me emociona y a la vez me da miedo.La autora trata muchas cosas en este libro, pero al final se trata de una historias de personajes grises, un juego de pasado y presente, de evolución, en lo que resalta es su estilo personal.Si le tengo que sacar alguna pega es que no he llegado a comprender que es eso del juego, aparte de ser arte en estado puro, y de que la parte de la Rata me ha dejado al final más conveniente que otra cosa.Pero vaya, maravilla que os recomiendo muchísimo. Y mejor ir sin saber nada de la historia, pues ahí está el encanto.Blog: https://librosdelcielo.blogspot.com/2...IG: https://www.instagram.com/p/CYjdFOIDvft/
4458047631	This book was recommended to me by a friend, pitched as a story with the best pacing and intriguing mystery and characters.It really hit the mark for me. Bridget really sets up the story in an intriguing way and has the best pacing. She keeps giving you little bits of the mystery through different POV's and flashbacks. Little by little you know more, but never does she give too much or too little.It kept me from wanting more, but also loving the ride!My favorite character is a girl who thinks she's a rat, not going to give away more about it, but I LOVED how weird her character was set up and what her POV brought to the story.During this book, I thought for a little while that I had a perfect book in my hands. Unfortunately, the ending was a tiny bit disappointing. Don't get me wrong, there's a thing happening that was absolutely NOT disappointing and actually amazing. It was more how Bridget decided to let some background things go, I missed a neater wrap up or intriguing ending for those storylines. But other than that, I recommend this book to anyone who is up for a slow mystery book.
6312999153	Never have I been more gutted that I'll probably be passing this book back to the charity shop, because its cover is so beautiful, and it had potential but sadly it felt incomplete.The major sticking point I had with it was with the 'grand jeu', which an author's note at the end explains was inspired by The Glass Bead Game. It is hazy and undefined, and in some ways doesn't directly effect the plot of the whole story, but everything lies upon it, as it is set in a school for the study of the game. I found this incredibly frustrating, it felt an unconvincing backdrop that was half-finished. I was longing to understand more about how the game impacted society, why people valued it, where it could lead you in life etc. etc. but the world-building stops there. Even the political side of the world-building is a little too sparse. Overall it gives the feeling of a draft where the plots there, but the rest hasn't been fleshed out. Again, it has the potential, the plot is decent, if a little stringy, it just needs the flesh! (view spoiler)[(and the potential of that twist, something something, the idea of falling in love with someone even in different forms...!) (hide spoiler)]The writing was decent, but I felt it lacked the excellence of The Binding that conveyed a real understanding and knowledge of the subject with details that don't come from just a viewer - you can tell she's actually done bookbinding! But again, perhaps this is not helped from the undefinedness of 'grand jeu'...
3815283421	4.5Collins has quickly earned a spot in my heart as one of my favorite writers - particularly for her imaginative and enchanting stories. Her writing is simultaneously atmospheric and so visceral - you *feel* the physical reactions of the characters, how anger creeps through their bodies or how grief leaves them breathless. I am always absorbed by the slow burn of her storytelling. Adored this just as I adored The Binding!
3640911376	This book was marvelous!I loved the juxtapositioning between past and present watching the way the story unfolded. There where several really fascinating twists none of them I saw coming and some truly fantastic characters. I kept one more paging and did not want to put this one done
