7815326469	There were some works in here that were quite touching including multiple eulogies for lost children B U T the far majority of the first 60% is all snow white or ivory or white pillow breasts and I swear I couldn't tell if I was going slowly to try to appreciate it or annoyed by all the beautiful faces and boobs that I had to keep putting it down. And then at about 60% Samuel Taylor Coleridge comes out of NOWHERE with Rime of the Ancient Mariner and I'm like oh yeah right poetry can be awesome. Some notes:Man literally writes poem for his lute Winter Nights by Thomas Campion and Thomas Love Peacock have the sauce John Fletcher did NOT have the sauce Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
1370600967	Fairly Unhappy. There could have been passages from The Prelude, Shelley's Epipsychidion and Alastor, John Keats' O Solitude! , When I have fears and The Eve Of St. Mark, Tennyson's Break, Break, Break, Browning's Rabbi Ben Ezra, Prospice, Arnold's Thyrsis & much more influential real, authentic poetry. This obsession with filling the pages of a prestigious publication with a needless lot of Eliot and his semi or unpoetical successors gets on nerves. There is no James Thomson in this collection, no Extracts from Summer, Spring, Autumn or Winter. There is no extract from Christabel, nor from Cowper's The Task. I still fail to understand this lingering lust for Modernist poetry, which is much poor in terms of execution and quality, even below the mediocre kind. The likes of real poets up till the mid nineteenth century are by and large treated dismally. There is even no Francis Thompson in this volume. Things ought to change.
6781430794	A bit of a mammoth book of poetry but it does give you a very good snapshot of poetry through the ages, from the 13th to the 20 century. From the Germanic medieval verse through to Shakespeare's time and to more modern poets like Larkin and Heaney.
513431700	DisappointingIn the days when there was actually a general audience for poetry, that audience's taste was both formed and reflected by anthologies which generally were created by by lovers of poetry -- the phrase, though it may sound pretentious, is the accurate one -- whose books were a quite conscious effort both to form and to reflect that taste. Today things are different: poetry has become largely an academic enterprise, and accordingly current anthologies tend to reflect not the taste of a general audience but the specialist jockeying that goes in English departments. There could hardly be a better example of this trend than Christopher Ricks's edition of The Oxford Book of English Verse.The book does have its points. Scottish poetry, traditionally a poor cousin, has been given something like its proper prominence. The selections from Elizabethan and Jacobean drama, whether or not they theoretically belong there, sure sound good. Matthew Arnold's "The Scholar-Gipsy", that bane of generations of sophomores with term papers due, has been reduced to a handful of stanzas which usefully demonstrate how bad a poem it really is. But taken as a whole, we find in this book that the anthologist's mission of portraying the sweep and blood of poetic tradition has been sacrificed to the department head's need not to hurt the feelings of anyone at the faculty meeting. It's not that the poems chosen are not worthwhile (though I for one could have done without Anthony Thwaite's tiresome poetry establishment in-joke of a poem consisting of all the names from Contemporary Poets, or Swinburne's really disgusting ode to foot fetishism and necrophilia, "The Leper"), it is that the necessity of satisfying all scholarly claimants leaves insufficient room for the poets and poems who really count. Thus we find the ancient roots of English song cut back almost to nothing, Donne demoted to an eccentric intellectual rake who got religion at the end, Byron a writer of verse novels which must have seemed quite shocking in their day, a Yeats unstained by politics, and an Eliot who wrote one memorable poem about a sad case named Prufrock wandering about London, as well as a number of interesting experiments -- the book omits all but eight lines of "The Waste Land"! There could be not better indication that this anthology neither leads popular taste nor follows it: it is hermetically sealed from it, and it represents the final transformation of the anthologist as lover of poetry into the anthologist as professor. Its poems are not episodes in the great epic of which all poems worth knowing are a part, but specimens; the book is not really an anthology, but a syllabus, and it gives us the great body of English poetry with its heart cut out. Those who want at least one major anthology of poetry in their library would do better to get this book's predecessor, The New Oxford Book of English Verse 1250–1950 (Oxford Books of Verse), still available, or better yet, the book I consider to be the best single poetry anthology, The Atlantic Book of British and American Poetry by Edith Sitwell out of print but still available used.
2938112236	Occasionally I will go through an entire anthology of verse and note down poems to return to, and this has been my third time going through this anthology. My five-star rating is a very personal one as I've had this book for years now, it is what introduced me to poetry beyond the little verses we're taught in school. The more poetry I read, however, the more I realise there are some frustrating choices in this anthology, which will inevitably happen when an editor attempts to collate a canonical collection. The scant attention paid to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, the importance placed on Robert Graves (whose critical praise baffles me), the inclusion of Shakespeare's songs which would be better replaced with more soliloquies, and the general inclusion of uninteresting works. The most frustrating is the lack of American poets, I don't understand how one can edit an anthology of English verse today without including Walt Whitman, whose influence on Modernism is too large to ignore.Despite these reservations, this would still serve as a decent introduction to the verse of this country for young people, but read it with a critical eye and do not think that Ricks' inclusion of a poem means that you have to respect it.
4887373759	For me the selection is far too steeped in the distant past. I would have liked more of the modern verse. There is only for instance a couple of poems from the likes of Sassoon. More of Keats, Wordsworth, Shelly etc. much of the 15th/ 16th century inclusions were too dated. Not a book for the casual poetry reader. I was disappointed
2182225654	This is the definitive collection of poetry in English. It contains a huge mixture of familiar and unfamiliar poems and also poets. The editor Christopher Ricks has done a magnificent job assembling this collection. As one reviewer states 'a book that can be thrown open to almost any page and instantly conjure five minutes (or an hour) of soul-lifting congress with Art'.
8065968547	do you like poems about the devil? well you will enjoy this! Great collection and cool to see different styles in the same era changing year to year
108138509	Since my brain has started to wither on the stem, I picked up the OBoEV with the goal of learning a poem a week. I'm falling short of the goal and some of the work can be a little Iambic but.... I've rediscovered the delights of the form. Take advice from this old Englishman--pick up a copy of the above and take a nibble of the pleasing passions of poetry. It will reduce stress, increase happiness, and put the world to rights.
427131586	A rich and rewarding trove of some really beautiful poetry, whilst some poets are given more space than necessary and some are perhaps neglected Ricks' compendium is a wonderful place to explore, to discover, and to feed on the complexity and elegance of human thought and expression.
133954858	Brilliant selection, beautifully produced. With so much poetry available for nothing on the web, this book reminds us why a great editor and a good publishing house can still make it worth buying hard copies.
1527196270	A must have for any poet lovers.
33135478	A classic. Not often read, but kept around anyway, if only to look up poetry referenced in other works.
