335743174	**ooh, now i can promote it on libboo!!https://www.libboo.com/read/the-year-...**i have made a lot of bold statements over the course of my life:twins are evilNASA is a drug front/the moon does not existfrance is an islandthis book is fun.and maybe you don't want to agree with me on a lot of those things, and i totally understand that. but i stand by my statements and i don't care if i stand alone. this book is not really like secret history. it is more like special topics in calamity physics, in the age of the protagonists and the role of the teacher-figure, but i liked this one a lot more than that one, for a variety of reasons.for reminding me that hypercolor t-shirts once existedfor using the word "vertigo" correctly.for teaching me how to spell "lede." for casually dropping words like "zeugma."and for being basically an all-around fun book about the cruelty of youth and the psychological baggage we carry with us over our own teenage mistakes.is "fun" the wrong word here? it probably is. because it is a very dark book, involving blackmail, bullying, the unsteadiness of the moral high ground, suicide, hallucinations, albinism, roofies, and the high-stress world of the private school. but to me, it was a page-turning good time.i have different definitions of fun. i would call last night's episode of game of thrones "fun" and that had a TON of bloodshed. fun! (view spoiler)[ AHHHHHH!!!!! (hide spoiler)]i was so relieved that this was told from a variety of perspectives. not that i didn't enjoy iris' voice, but i was so grateful when the second chapter was told from the viewpoint of jonah. and as the story progressed, and the narratives began weaving together, i really appreciated this technique, and the delayed gratification it offered. i particularly liked seeing what jonah and iris really thought of each other. all in all, it is a good mystery story that is peppered with smart and funny characters who frequently say unexpected things. it is occasionally self-consciously written and it lacks the high sheen of sophistication that makes me swoon when i think about the secret history, but again - a lot of fun. but karen-style fun that has a tinge of horror to it. enjoy!come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
460693549	** spoiler alert ** I wanted to like this a lot more than I did, but “unrequited teenage love” is not an adequate justification for any of the events that take place in this book that are subsequently blamed on unrequited teenage love. Most notably, when high school-aged Hazel convinces a pretentious art student to make a movie wherein the albino girlfriend of the object of her unreturned affection is drugged, filmed saying she’s using the guy for sex because that’s what her “character” should be saying, and has her pubic hair dyed black once she’s unconscious. Not surprisingly, Hazel grows up to be the type of adult who sexually manipulates teenage boys, slaps fourteen-year-olds in the face, and feels comfortable telling men how, in her opinion, they should be grieving for their dead twin brothers. Much more intriguing is the concurrent story of Iris Dupont, fourteen-year-old prep school student who has a passion for reporting & talks to an invisible Edward R. Murrow in times of trouble. Iris also has a best friend who committed suicide at some point before the book began, but to her great disservice Dalia is more of a plot device than anything. This is Iris's great tragedy, which she feels aligns her with the unorthodox science teacher who was once a student at the same prep school, is the brother of the dead twin, and pined for Hazel when they were all kids. The writing is nice, everyone’s separate parts hang together well, & the characters are pretty okay, even though all the adults seem inexplicably distressed that teenagers are basically herd animals who will do whatever just because anyone who’s popular or an accepted authority tells them to (to which I say, “No kidding”), but by the end I was over it. All the plot twists hang on people being such tremendous jerks & there’s absolutely no repercussions for the awful things they do to each other, besides that one guy who wasn’t even that bad who dies in a car accident (Hazel gets kicked out of the Historical Society building & that’s all? I ask you, where’s the assault charge?) And I also find it ridiculous that anyone would ever get some fabulous internship at the Boston Globe at the age of fourteen.
809291786	When I was in high school back in the dark ages of the 1950s, the pranks we played varied from the timeworn to the troublesome, but nobody ever got hurt. For instance, several dozen of us set alarm clocks to go off in our lockers during class time.That was a hoot. But it didn’t match the inventiveness of the prank we visited upon our unpopular school librarian, Mrs. Fanny Bright (yes, that was her name, I kid you not): during several of the last weeks of the term, up until the day the library was to close for inventory, at least 100 of us steadily checked out as many as possible of the biggest, heaviest books we could locate — and returned them all on the afternoon of the last day the library was open. The scene of pandemonium in the library that afternoon was a delicious treat for our adolescent minds.I should have been expelled for masterminding that incident, but the powers-that-were eventually decided it wouldn’t look good to expel the valedictorian.Apparently, times have changed over the past half-century and more, if Jennifer Miller’s suspenseful and often hilarious novel, The Year of the Gadfly, can be trusted. At the Mariana Academy, the snooty New England prep school at the center of her story, student pranks can be lethal. Whether student or faculty, everyone is fair game for the diabolical tricks that a small clique of pranksters unleashes on the unwary.The tale revolves around two intriguing characters: Jonah Kaplan, who has just joined the Mariana faculty to teach freshman and sophomore science despite a lingering reputation as the school’s resident hell-raiser during his student days there; and an exceptionally bright 14-year-old girl named Iris Dupont, a would-be journalist whose only friend is the spectral presence of Edward R. Murrow, with whom she engages in impassioned dialogue about truth and journalistic ethics. That is, until Iris develops a passionate attraction to Mr. Kaplan. But this is no hackneyed tale of a teenage crush on an older man. If you pick up this book, prepare yourself for a wild ride: The Year of the Gadfly mashes up a coming-of-age tale with a tragic mystery story with a deft send-up of elite prep schools. It’s one of a kind, and a great pleasure to read.The Year of the Gadfly is Jennifer Miller’s first novel. She also wrote an award-winning work of nonfiction, Inheriting the Holy Land: An American’s Search for Hope in the Middle East.
1047157191	Bucolic New England setting with winding backroads, high-powered academically competitive prep school, and identity-challenged adolescents is the stuff of YEAR OF THE GADFLY. It's a day school, not a boarding school, so the parental pressure is unrelenting as well. Miller develops her story through two interlinked time lines. The present is 2012. It is narrated alternately in the first person by Iris and Jonah. Iris has transferred to the Mariana Academy and is entering her sophomore year. Despite her youth, she has high ambitions of becoming a top tier investigative journalist. Her idolization of Edward R. Murrow takes the form of imaginary conversations with the man, whom she revamps as her spiritual mentor. Her family has initiated the move at the prompting of her therapist. Jonah Kaplan was once a student at Mariana. He went on to earn a Ph.D. in microbiology and is scheduled to begin research funded by a modest grant in entomology in the spring. In the interim, he has returned to Mariana as a teacher, determined to divert his students to the elusive pursuit of knowledge and not just grades. He is also motivated by a personal makeover project. Like Iris, his story hints of a troubled past. The makeover is a naïve endeavor, Justin concludes: “I'd been deluded, thinking I could return to Mariana, and not encounter my past at every turn, but I had always imagined my adult self and my boyhood as a double helix: twisted threads that traveled in a spiral but never actually made contact. Returning...had tangled the strands together.” (p.108) The second timeline takes place a scant twelve years earlier. In 1999 Jonah Kaplan was a student along with his brother Justin, the headmaster's daughter Lily, and an intense classics major named Hazel. Each in his own way is an outsider. Lily is an albino, Jonah and Justin are both socially awkward and wrestle with sibling rivalry issues, and Hazel is a close friend to both of them. These events are told from Lily's point of view through third person narrative, as well as Jonah's as flashbacks.Two mysteries are presented to hold the reader's interest. The first concerns the truth about what happened 12 years ago. The second concerns the identity and intentions of an underground student organization which styles itself as an anti-establishment avenger bent on exposing hypocrisy. However, its actions include staging flash-mobs, cyber bullying, vandalism, and making surreptitious surveillance tapes. Miller captures the painful ambivalence of adolescence perfectly. Iris considers the development of her acquaintanceship with another student named Peter. “I was starting to think there were two Peter McCaffreys: one of them awkward, the other confident. But there were multiple versions of me, too. The brazen girl, the shy girl, the good girl, and the grieving girl. Could all of these personalities exist in an integrated whole, or would one ultimately take over? And what if the wrong identity asserted itself?” (p.271) She might have gone on to add the multiplicity of conjured identities so easily summoned in this formative stage. Who hasn't wanted to change their clothes, their body, their interests, their style, in order to fit in with some random clique that represented a version of adulthood or sophistication or talent? Those elements are poignantly expressed in Lily's story. The attractions in this adolescent world feel more like imprinting than relationships. Miller's narrative of Lily's story is especially strong. Unfortunately, these elements do not begin to coalesce until the final third of the book.The development of Iris's character felt unconvincing. She is quick to assure the reader that she realizes her conversations with Murrow are imaginary. However, that reassurance erases the incipient tension of a psychological thriller. The conceit soon wears thin, and her constant self-editing of cliché feels like affectation. Ethical paradoxes are touched upon obliquely and from a vantage point of safety. Dialogue is another problem. It is a difficult task to straddle profound insights articulated with clarity and the shorthand patois of adolescent conversation. One way around this is through introspective glimpses. Sometimes, Miller applies this technique brilliantly. Iris reflects on the effects of grief, including her own. “Hazel talked about grief like it was a carnivorous parasite, destroying the person you'd been before it infected you.” (p.234) Jonah's internal dialogues, however, felt indistinguishable from Iris's. Perhaps because of the scant age divide of only 12 years, a large part of him still felt very adolescent. This was a strong “coming of age” book that promised more but failed to deliver. I wanted more.
446785312	If I had to sum this book up in just one word, it would be FUN. When I think about it, I imagine everything in the book taking place in super-bright Technicolor, but also having a kind of retro sheen - it has a distinctive 80s/90s feel, which I think made it a particularly enjoyable experience to me because I grew up reading the YA novels of that time. It is an adult book but it's also something of a love letter to that particular type of YA (think Point Horror/Point Crime and, one of my personal favourite series that probably nobody else remembers, The Mystery Club) that now seems rather quaint. It certainly has dark themes but it's a very easy read and has a lightness of touch that stops any of the bad things that happen from actually seeming at all horrifying. It would make a good film!Things I liked:- The setting. Obviously. It's a private school with a strange history, full of privileged, competitive kids behaving exactly as you would expect them to, except this school has a weird, zealous emphasis on equality and a rather liberal interpretation of whatever its curriculum is supposed to be. It's instantly captivating.- The plot is a proper, old-fashioned mystery. The kind where everyone has terrible secrets and has done dark deeds and all the characters are a little eccentric and possibly mad. I mean, there's a secret society that publishes newsletters exposing staff and pupils' misdemeanours! And nobody knows who they are! How could you not want to know more about that?- Iris is a really engaging heroine. Once I got past a bit of initial annoyance at her precociousness, I was completely rooting for her to get to the bottom of the mystery and succeed in her aspirations to be a prize-winning journalist. I even loved her imagined conversations with Edward R. Murrow, to the point that I was annoyed when her love interest was introduced because I knew she'd be speaking to him instead.- Although I liked Iris a lot, I was glad the other narratives (Jonah and Lily) had been included because, if there hadn't been at least one adult voice, this would have felt too light to be classified as anything other than YA.- That said, it still reminded me of all the best things about the YA books I read when I was a near-teenager/young teen. It's occasionally schlocky, silly and even slightly surreal, but all the better for that! Reservations I had:- The opening is too fast-moving. There's no sense of Iris adjusting to Mariana and no real suggestion of how she feels about being uprooted and thrown into an unfamiliar environment; nor does it seem like any of her new classmates react to her at all.- While I enjoyed the often-quirky description, the book sometimes felt like it was a little overwritten.- Iris and Jonah's narratives are too similar, stylistically speaking, to be believable as individual voices.- Some of the details stretch the truth too far, even for a YA-alike novel, for example (view spoiler)[the cameras being all over the school and yet remaining undetected, even when incriminating photographs taken from mysterious angles had been published and seen by all the staff and pupils (hide spoiler)].
4897649607	3 stars--I liked the book. What I liked: the dual timelines. The multiple points of view. The secret society and school setting (always a sucker for a good elite prep school in fiction). Iris, the intrepid girl reporter. Things I didn't like: lack of character motivations. The insta-connection characters feel for no reason. Muddled plot details. Kind of a mixed bag, but overall entertaining.
404948022	I'm a little sad and a little angry that someone spent so much time writing this book and ended up with such a turd. Character motivations make no sense, with the occasional exception of Iris (she's so tiny! But with perky tits!). Jonah (why is everyone named like they attend a Park Slope daycare?)--why would Jonah come back to the school, given his role in the you-know-what? And why would the board of directors approve a huge salary (several times the usual) for a troublemaking ex-student? They said in the book PhD teachers are not that unusual at the school. Hazel, we are told, is charismatic and larger than life, but the author will be damned if she'll show us anything other than Hazel acting like a creepy jerk. OK, I guess I didn't hate Lily, but she deserves a better book. The accident takes place in December or June, depending on which chapter you're reading (either that, or the writing is terrible, and I'm not willing to forgive either). The mystery is not that challenging. The pacing is off--by the time Iris (tiny!) discovers that Justin and Jonah were brothers, the reader is like, "Duh, we knew that 100 pages ago." Oh, and tiny, tiny Iris likes to speak with the ghost of Edward R. Murrow, because why the hell not? What I really want to say is, don't read this.
326803299	This is a difficult book for me to evaluate, because there is no way I’m going to enjoy reading about the bullying and psychological torture of young kids. For that matter, I am ill-disposed from the very beginning to like reading about private academies for privileged kids. There are some aspects to the plot that intrigued me though, and I wanted to see how they played out.It seems like there are only two types of students at Mariana Preparatory Academy in Nye, Massachusetts: incredibly cruel, or incredibly stupid. The former prey on the latter, as you might expect. The faculty isn’t much better, but to describe them we can add a third category: ineffectual.The story is told from three points of view. Iris Dupont, 15, a new student at Mariana, wants to be a reporter. Her hero is Edward R. Murrow, and she frequently conducts “conversations” with him in her head. She and her family are residing at the temporarily empty house of the former Mariana headmaster who is away in London. Iris is sleeping in the former bedroom of the daughter, Lily, who provides the second point of view.Lily is an albino who attended Mariana at the same time as one of Iris’s teachers, Jonah Kaplan. Jonah tells the story from the third point of view. Jonah’s twin brother, Justin, used to be Lily’s boyfriend.One additional main character has a large role in the story but no point of view of her own, and that is Hazel Greenburg, a contemporary of Lily, Jonah, and Justin, who is important to all of the other characters.Mariana’s environment is intense; the students are under pressure from their parents to perform academically so they can get into the best schools. They also are subject to the usual adolescent stress to belong, to fit in, and to be popular. Fueled by the influence of a few unbalanced individuals, they come to take all of this tension out on each other. Miller is showing us an “extreme” ecosystem, which is the focus of Jonah Kaplan’s curriculum in science class. As the author explains:"Extremophile is a scientific category, which literary means “extreme loving.” … The name applies to microscopic organisms that thrive in places inhospitable to life…. I think that’s a pretty apt summary of teenage life…”And yet, as Mr. Kaplan explains in class, these organisms cannot survive in a “normal” environment. They are trapped, just as the students are trapped in the prep school with its distorted survival mechanisms. Some survive by attacking those who are weaker; some react to the isolation and despair by capitulation to the mutant social system; and some even choose suicide. Iris wants to believe she is better than the others, but she, too, adapts to her new habitat. Even Edward R. Murrow, Iris is finally forced to admit, harbored a complexity and darkness at odds with his public image.Discussion: One of the recurring discussions in the book is over whether those who give in to the bullying of or entrapment by the stronger students are culpable. As one victim thinks to himself:"You are gullible and disgusting; you brought all of this on yourself.”It is interesting that every single one of the victims has a similar reaction.The bulliers justify their behavior in a similar way:"People act within their nature. [The victims] didn’t have to participate… but [they] did.”The collaborators in bullying too have excuses:"What were we supposed to do? We trusted [that person, who] changed our lives, pulled us out of our pitiful, weak existences….”At the end of the book, most of the bulliers have not learned anything, nor have the collaborators. This is perhaps the scariest message of the book. Maybe they couldn’t live with themselves if they thought they were wrong. But maybe whatever made them act like that in the first place is so strong that they are impermeable to self-doubt.I’m not sure how Iris comes out of this. She knows she “had become lost in a moral maze” but she is still so lonely and in search of connection that it’s not clear the choice she makes at the end of the book is any wiser.Evaluation: The author did a fairly good job of keeping my interest in spite of my dislike of the subject matter and virtually all of the characters. I can’t honestly say I had fun reading it; it is a pretty nightmarish story. But I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend it for a book club: there are plenty of issues in this provocative book to keep any discussion group happy.
319800818	This book is one of those books about private school (that I love), a secret society and a girl reporter who likes to chat with Edward R. Murrow.My thoughts...Iris and her family have moved to a new town and a new school. I am imagining Iris as a bit on the odd side. She carries around a sort of briefcase and she styles herself as a reporter in the manner of her idol, Edward R. Murrow. She is on the school newspaper but her ideas are severely restricted by the editor. She feels a kinship, a connection to her science teacher who also attended school here years ago. There is a sort of shrouded mystery going on with acts of bullying and both Iris and her science teacher are trying to find out who is involved. There are also secrets and questions about Mr. Kaplan and what happened to him while he was at this school twelve years ago.To be perfectly honest...I didn't get invested in this novel immediately. There are flashbacks...lots of them. The story alternates between school now and school then. I was reading an egalley on my iPad and constantly checking back to keep characters and events straight in my head was tricky. Soon, however, I came to a point in my reading where I felt as though I knew the characters and knew the times that everything was happening. This was my point of total and thorough immersion in this novel.Iris is approached by masked classmates with a secret task to carry out...or else. The members of this secret society have the ability to bully, scare and manipulate. Iris has been "chosen" to work for this group but... is she really working for this group? Who actually is doing the manipulating? Mr. Kaplan is also tasked by the school's headmaster to find out who is in this secret club. The mystery just gets more and more complex and fascinating.Added to this mystery is a tragedy that occurred while Mr. Kaplan was a student. It involved three other students...Hazel, Lily, and Mr. Kaplan's twin brother. Iris is actually living in the house that Lily lived in...in Lily's room with Lily's things. This only makes her more curious about what happened then and sort of connects her to Mr. Kaplan now. What did I love about this novel?Hmmm...What I loved was the way the author connected then and now. I loved the quirky parts of Iris. I loved the surprises. Characters I thought were sweet and nice...really were just the opposite. I loved the weak parts of some of the characters as much as I loved their strong parts. I loved the slow reveal and that moment near the end when all the plot pieces and character actions fell neatly into place.This book is different, surprising, and thought provoking. It is complicated. It drew me in slowly with its complex plot. It kept me guessing about its nice and often not so nice characters. It gave me lots to think about. It made me feel sad about what happened and it made me feel angry about wasted lives and the blindness of people. And at the end of the book...I was able to have hope for them....especially Iris and Mr. Kaplan and Lily.I do like that from a book.So...ultimately...should you read this book?Should it be Kindled, Nooked, purchased, placed in a must read pile?My answer to that would be yes!!!The author wrote it brilliantly. There are so many things that you will learn by reading it. I can't even begin to tell you about the science part of it...the quirky parts of Iris that melted my heart. In spite of me not getting it at first...and that is just me...it unravelled in just the right way. I am still thinking about the complex character relationships. Still pondering the ending...Sigh!Thanks to Hannah and Carla at Houghton Mifflin Harcourt...I have a lovely hard copy to give away...Just leave your email in the comments...I will random.org a winner next Friday!- Posted using BlogPress from my iPad
358085346	This book just never connected with me for some reason. Couldn't believe that the main character was only 14 years old and her "talking" with Edward R. Murrow was just ridiculous. It was very slow and plodding in the beginning. While no doubt teenage sub-groups in a school can wield tremendous power over fellow students, it is doubtful that such groups can exert the KGB-like control that the author bestows on Prisom's Party. Beyond those elements of implausibility, main story threads are not all that gripping; they get lost in the disjointed telling.
312405158	YA. Smug little sh*t 14-yr old shows no respect to completely ineffective parents. Guy Noir-type schtickiness so irritating I can't even.
368698026	Didn't even make it to page 50. The jacket summary sounded much more interesting than the book itself was.
5240759095	My favorite parts of the book were Lily's POV and the mystery of her and Justin. The twist at the end felt kind of underwhelming and I think it should've been explored more
3818908456	not a fav but reading the boston parts was very fun for me, a girl currently in boston
335967478	I have a weakness for prep school novels. Having gone to public, private and boarding schools, I love the idealized and/or scandalous versions presented in the genre, because they make my own experiences feel less insane. So when I saw the blurb for The Year Of The Gadfly in Glamour magazine a month or so ago, I put it on my mental to-read list, though wasn't going to make a particular point of getting the book till it came out at my local public library.And then Jennifer Miller ambushed me here on Goodreads (in the nicest way possible) and next thing you know, I'm sitting in the front row of her book-signing at Politics & Prose, listening to her read excerpts from the novel. I had to clear a small backlog of other reading before I could finally start TYOTG, and at first it was a little odd, as I kept hearing Ms Miller's voice in my head as I read (which is especially disconcerting when the narrator for about a third of the book is a 20-something male.) But once I got past the bits she'd read aloud, it was easy to immerse myself in the distinct voice of each narrator, and lose myself in the layered, nuanced plot.As far as prep school novels go, TYOTG is definitely on the better end of the scale. I'd rate it closer to The Secret History and The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie than to A Separate Peace (which I read in my early 20s -- my much younger brother read it at the same time and loved it, but I was unimpressed) or the perfectly awful Prep. The central mystery is unraveled subtly (though several clues are marked with neon signs, with no explanation of why they're there except to point us in the "right" direction) but, to me, finding out what really happened at the turn of the century isn't the point of this book. While Jonah is an important part of the narrative, the book really belongs to Iris and, to a slightly lesser extent, Lily. Lily's travails at Mariana Academy made my heart lurch for her, but Iris is the one who carries the book, powering through her fears and mixed emotions to focus on what's most important to her: her journalistic ambitions. It was a nice change to read a book with a heroine who wasn't punished for putting her own self-actualization first (and the matter-of-fact lack of vanity at the end was pretty awesome.) I also really enjoyed reading both sides of her relationship with Jonah. I appreciate that Iris never quite manages to come to terms with her feelings for him, but carries on regardless. She's a great character, and one of my favorite young heroines in recent memory. I only wish the progression of her relationship with Murrow had been drawn out a little longer: what happened near the end seemed a bit sudden, especially since she'd relied on him for so long.I also enjoyed the character of Hazel very much. I was almost seduced by some of what she said near the middle, so thoroughly understood her effect on others. I didn't quite get why (view spoiler)[ she wasn't arrested for assault after what she did to Iris (hide spoiler)] but I soon forgot that as the novel moved towards its luminous end. I was actually a bit disappointed that it stopped where it did, though I suppose Ms Miller intended for the reader's imagination to provide a better scene than any she cared to furnish -- I always appreciate when an author trusts her readers with enough intelligence to do so.A wonderful book, and while I usually sigh with annoyance when contacted by authors on Goodreads about their work, I'm very glad Ms Miller took the time to e-mail me about hers.
335319650	Iris is a fourteen-year-old aspiring reporter whose parents move to get away from everything, enrolling her in Mariana Academy - a private prep school with so many secrets just waiting for her to discover. Iris is kind of a loner, but she thinks she's found someone who understands her in her science teacher, Mr. Kaplan (Jonah), because of their shared experiences. In an effort to better understand her new world, Iris sends herself undercover, investigating Mr. Kaplan's own time spent as a student at Mariana and Prisom's Party, a secret society at the school that exposes secrets and scandals as they see fit.The story is told from three perspectives - Iris's, Jonah's, and Lily's (Lily's part takes place 12 years earlier, when she and Jonah were students at Mariana). At first, their voices sort of blended together because they sounded so similar, but as the book went on, I really enjoyed the different narratives. All were telling the same story, but at different points, and from vastly different perspectives. I loved getting to see Iris investigate a mystery she really knew nothing about, while Jonah stressed about how past and his present converging, and Lily describing events in her own life as they unfolded - the same events that Iris was looking into and Jonah continually thought about.I'm not quite sure how to classify this book. It wasn't a full mystery or thriller, despite the secret society aspect and the fact that Iris was trying to investigate something, and it wasn't a young adult/teen novel despite Iris's age and the high school setting. Instead, the book was fairly quiet with so many thoughtful sentiments and a lot of interesting turns. It's not a style that's for everyone, I'm sure, but I loved it. The writing was beautiful, and I continually highlighted passages because of how much the sentiment resonated with me. I'd actually originally borrowed this book from the library but because I couldn't renew it, I ended up buying a copy; I'm glad I did, as this is one I may reread or reference in the future. It was just beautiful.The best part of this book, for me, was not the plot itself or even the characters. I simply loved the way that the author used the story to illustrate - without a heavy hand! - how high school experiences stay with you and mold you into the adult you'll eventually become. I loved seeing the ways these characters responded to problems and how they'd grown - or not - due to circumstances they'd been thrust into and choices they'd made. It was such a nice depiction of secrets and longings and how everything mixed together to manifest itself later in life. There was a lot of retrospect and thoughtfulness throughout, and it was exactly the sort of slow-paced book that is probably underrated overall but just so good. I loved so much about this book and would easily recommend it to others with the disclaimer that it's not action packed or particularly thrilling but simply a really wonderful story about the complexities in life. I'm so glad I read this and will be definitely picking up future books by this author.
773492281	Hovering around 1.5I think Miller put her money on a “proven” formula: prep school + secret society = narrative gold.Here’s what we got: Prep school + secret society + flimsy characters + a dash of wtf = why did I fall for this, get me out of here. I knew I was going to be annoyed with a 14-year-old “journalist.” Overly inquisitive, irritatingly dedicated. That fly buzzing around your head. Wouldn't have felt this way if I found Iris clever, witty or winsome. But she ended up being like 5 steps behind “the enemy” and quite clueless in the end. I wanted a Veronica Mars, and I got a kid playing grown up. So I skimmed it. Not the whole thing…just like 60% of it. And by skimmed I mean, I read the dialogue and could give a crap about all the mundane descriptions and shallow commentary. That all became filler, just puffing up the book so it doesn't seem like you can pretty much get the full sense of it in the dialogue—but you can. And then the structure of the book gave me friggin whiplash! Why did anyone think it was a good idea to have 3 different perspectives that change every single chapter?? It reminded me of Thirteen Reasons Why (that book I loathe) and how it was so frustrating having to actively think,Ok, this is Clay talking now. Same thing happened here. Your characters, Miller, do not each have well-defined, distinct voices, so all the voices sound the same. I often read a chapter thinking it was Iris’ voice when it was actually Jonah’s: Confusion ensues. I think you have to be really good at character development to handle that many perspectives, and I'm not convinced Miller is. But I appreciated the attempt at intellectualism. The book is separated into 6 sections, introduced with a quote from a scientific text Iris comes across, called “Marvelous Species: Investigating Earth’s Mysterious Biology.” Anything thought provoking about The Year of the Gadfly comes from these quotes and how they relate to character behavior throughout. For instance:“These extremophiles thrive in darkness, feeding on poisonous methane and sulfur gases. The renowned molecular philosopher Lucinda Starburst has written that ‘intraterrestrials grow strong on substances utterly destructive to human life, and yet they shape our lives at the most fundamental level. They force us to reexamine what it means to create and destroy, to benefit and harm.”Extremophiles, intraterrestrials, whatever you want to call them—they’re a cool source of comparison to what the book’s secret society, Prisom’s Party, is and stands for. But it somehow turned juvenile when the characters started referencing it. Let readers infer what they will from the quotes; retain a modicum of subtly. Instead, we get a teacher who introduces the idea at the very beginning of the book, with that nauseating, condescending contrarian-teacher-challenges-a-classroom’s-whole-perspective-on-life cliché. Really—get me out of here.
529352795	Set in a New England prep school, "The Year of the Gadfly" takes the reader into the very halls and dungeons of a school that prides itself on its honor code, yet seemingly maintains a studied ignorance of a secret society that has thrived for years and now threatens its placid halls.Enter Iris Dupont, budding journalist who carries the baggage of a recent loss. Into the world of Nye, Massachusetts and the Mariana Academy, she comes wearing her hopes and dreams on her sleeve, even as she presents with a pseudo-sophistication combined with a fierce desire to fit in. Never mind the presence of her secret mentor, Edward R. Murrow, who speaks to her on a regular basis.Science teacher Jonah Kaplan, who has a Ph.D., but prefers the title "Mr.," seemingly stands out in the crowd as Iris surveys her new domain, and she feels oddly connected to him.What will unfold between these two as the story reveals itself? How will the past students at the academy insert themselves into the present day and resurrect some of the worst happenings of the school's history?Narrated alternately by Iris, in first person; Lily, a previous student afflicted with albinism, and in whose home Iris now resides; and Jonah, also in first person voice, the tale flips between the past and the present, and introduces other characters, like Hazel, whose past connection to Jonah and his deceased twin Justin, as well as Lily, we slowly come to understand. And we clearly begin to realize how the past has informed the present.The slow and unyielding revelations of past betrayals, horrific secrets, and cruel manipulations kept me turning these pages, even as I despised almost every character. But then again, like real humans, vulnerable and flawed, they each gave us a piece of the story that would have been incomplete without them.I like this passage in Lily's voice, as she recalls Justin:"A butterfly was the first insect he'd ever preserved and, according to his mother, a coming-of-age milestone on par with his bar mitzvah. Lily hated the term "coming of age" and its suggestion of menstrual cycles. But in this case, Mrs. Kaplan was right. The moment you killed something—a living creature or a false hope—was the moment you came of age. Loss of innocence wasn't a passive experience that happened TO you. It was something you gave up."The themes and characters were totally engaging. This story stands out from the usual prep school tale in its depth and its unerring diligence at piercing through the facades and showing the truth, no matter how unpalatable. And the ending left me with a feeling of hope. Five stars.
347621689	I've always been enamored with the East Coast, especially New England. I love the fall foliage, the Victorian and Cape Cod houses, the fair isle sweaters, but more than anything, I love the schools. Growing up in small-town Wyoming, I fantasized about the prep and boarding schools on the East Coast. The gothic buildings, the ivy, the intellectual debates I thought must occur in the dorms. I still have a soft spot for this idealized world and if a synopsis of a book includes the words "prep school", I will almost always check it out. The Year of the Gadfly by Jennifer Miller was an interesting, well-written addition to this world. It follows 14-year old Iris. A girl who is new to Mariana Academy. After her best friend committed suicide, her parents moved her to a small New England town named Nye for a fresh start. Iris is an aspiring journalist and frequently talks to the ghost of her ideal, Edward Murrow, the esteemed journalist. She wants to write real stories for her school newspaper, but is blocked by her editor who believes any story that hurts the reputation of Mariana will hurt the chances of the students getting into good schools. When the long-dormant secret society, Prisom's Party, starts to dole out their own brand of justice under the idea of the truth and brotherhood, Iris becomes intrigued and decides to do a little digging for a story.Also interested in the society is Iris' science teacher, Jonah, a man in his 20s who went to Mariana Academy as a boy. He is returning to Nye for the first time since his twin brother's death 12 years earlier. He is happy to hear that the girl he loved in high school, Hazel, is also back in town and running and living in the Historical Society House.The book follows two intertwining story lines, the present with Iris and adult Jonah and Hazel, and the year 2000 with Jonah and his brother, Hazel, and Justin's albino girlfriend, Lily, who grew up in the house where Iris and her family are staying while waiting for their own house to be completed. The chapters shift between time and characters, expertly weaving the stories together until its conclusion. The mystery of the society is intriguing and the writing is sharp and original. I thoroughly enjoyed Year of the Gadfly and would recommend it to people who like stories based in academia. I look forward to reading what Jennifer Miller writes next.
1003496534	After her parents discover her talking to her imagined version of Edward R. Murrow, Iris is exiled to Mariana Academy, an elite school with a dark past, where, after a personal tragedy, she is expected to heal and re-establish a sense of normalcy. As Iris settles into her new home (previously occupied by a mysterious albino girl whose possessions lead Iris on a journey through the past), Iris plans to improve her journalism skills and establish herself as one of the few critical thinkers at Mariana. But as Iris digs into the school's past, she begins to uncover secrets that the school's secret society prefers to keep hidden. Iris, accompanied by Murrow, marches forward to seek out truth.I loved this book. It contained nearly everything I look for in a book. The characters were originally drawn and deeply complex. The plot was very layered and well thought out. The intellect of the prep school was compelling without being pretentious. I was drawn in from the first page, and felt a little breathless when, a few days later, I reached the ending. The book had me spell-bound, and Miller always stayed several steps ahead of me. The twists were always surprising and fresh. I can't wait to read the book again, this time knowing the ending. I sense there was even more foreshadowing than I caught the first time through.
353035936	I really didn't much enjoy The Year of the Gadfly by Jennifer Miller. It came highly recommended by my eldest daughter, Meghan. It is likely that our taste in books is ultimately different. In this case, mine are more suspect.The book is well written, a coming of age story. It is a mystery, which is probably part of my discontent. The plot is good, though not the page turner that everyone else says it is. I felt little empathy with any of the characters. While I am a plot driven reader, I must have some empathy with the characters.Jennifer Miller angled away from most of the cliches that she could have written. I was particularly pleased with avoiding the obvious ending. I worked my way through the first half of the book, found myself moderately pulled by the second half, far more readable than the first. Evil was not black and white, merely confused. But evil is definitely present.Meghan found this a book that she couldn't put down. But I can only give this a three star rating.
355407904	As a former journalism student, and past worshiper of the old guard of mid-century American press, I couldn't resist a novel in which the young female protagonist talks to Edward R. Murrow - who just so happens to be her imaginary friend. Although this is the hook that has garnered buzz for The Year of the Gadfly from critics, there was much more to love in Jennifer Miller's story. The book is narrated partly in the near future, with dates starting in the autumn of 2012, and partly 12 years prior when the previous generation was attending the New England co-ed prep school, Mariana Academy, which our heroine, Iris, is attending. Miller also alternates points-of-view between Iris and characters who inhabited the Mariana Academy of the past. This book was an immensely enjoyable read with several reveals, and an exciting conclusion.
360096260	I don't get it. This book gets 4.3/5 at Amazon and 3.76/5 here at Goodreads. And I don't get it.With the exception of Iris, the 14-year-old Edward R. Murrow cub-reporter wannabe main character, and Justin, dead 10 years at the outset of the story, the rest of the ensemble are universally uninteresting, uninspiring, and downright unlikeable. ALL OF THEM.Most of the plot and much of the conversation is unrealistic and very hard to believe. The word 'contrived' came to mind a lot during reading. Really, really very not good. About the best I can say about this book is that it isn't the worst thing I've read in the past year or two, and that's the how and why to explain a 2nd star.Skip it.
2919271342	I wanted so badly to like this. I guess I've been searching for that once-in-a-lifetime high I received from reading The Secret History and this book just did not give what it was supposed to be giving. Gadfly seemed really promising at first because it had all the fun, delicious characteristics of the Dark Academia Novel that I love. If you mix all these in one book, I'll surely read it because I really do like them even though they are rather pretentious.Secret societies and Latin sayings? Check. Unhealthy obsession with morally gray, intelligent teachers and pretentious, precocious teens at a boarding/private school? Double check! Mentions of Greek culture and science mixed with dark secrets/mysteries? Yup, it's all there. So why do I feel kind of let down by it? It could have been such an interesting novel if it just had that little extra oomph. It wasn't a bad novel by any means but it just was not as outstanding to me. I was left wanting more, wondering why this novel wasn't as "whip smart" or "funny" as the glowing reviews on the front said it would be. I feel a little relieved that I spent just a few ringgit on this at the book fair because buying this at full price would be honestly a let down. Summary Iris Dupont is a budding journalist who wants to uncover the mysterious society known as Prisom's Party at Mariana Academy where she meets the enigmatic biology teacher, Mr Kaplan who is hiding secrets of his own. Iris dives deeper into the past to discover Mr Kaplan's past and finds shocking connections that shed light on current incidents at the school. The good stuffKeeping in theme with the theme of extremophiles which was central to the story, I liked that the book was divided into different sections and prefaced with a biological definition of different types of microorganisms that live in extreme conditions from flaming volcanoes to deadly ice cold tundras. I thought this concept was well executed. Each section had a corresponding extremophile that was tied neatly to the storyline. For example, the book started off with an excerpt about pressure-loving organisms and ended with a paragraph about mutations for survival which made a lot of sense in the context of the novel. Gadfly is written from three points of view: the protagonist (Iris), her biology teacher (Jonah Kaplan) and Lily. Lily is the spectre haunting the story because she provides flashbacks into the past where we understand Jonah's story more. I like the flashbacks from Lily actually. Despite her morally questionable acts and problematic behaviour, she acted the way I would have expected from an awkward albino teenage girl who has been alienated from her peers. She wanted so badly to rebel and fit in that it created an interesting, tragic conflict within her. In the end, her story did not end happily and I was a little pissed off by the fact that she did not seem to get much comeuppance. Still, I appreciate and acknowledge the complexity in her character. The characters are all morally gray. None of them are perfect and most of them hurt each other in horrific ways. Some were plain psychopaths but it was just brushed off as youthful exuberance. I liked the grittiness they brought to the story. The meh stuffIris as the main character wasn't very impactful. I felt pretty bad about this because I wanted to like her but I found her conversations with her imaginary friend, Edward Murrow, to be more annoying than quirky. We don't get much sense of her as a person or character other than the fact that is obsessed with journalism and Jonah Kaplan. The relationship between Iris and Jonah could have been handled better. I know the book probably did not want to veer into dangerous territory but I think I would have accepted it if the book acknowledged Iris's crush on Jonah. She is charmed by his charisma as he is an attractive older teacher and she has this almost blind devotion to him. But we barely get any interactions between them or even a spark of chemistry. Okay, Iris didn't have to die for him or engage in any sordid underage sex with him but I could not understand why she was so obsessed with him. She just idolized him way too much and the book would be much better if it threw them together more often to solidify the reason she was devoted to him. Jonah, being a teacher, felt annoying and kind of creepy to me since the first thing he noticed in his encounter with his 14-year-old student, Iris was her breasts. He literally mentioned them first of all and I had to deduct a point for this because it felt so out of character for him. Was it written to make him look more morally gray? If so, it just succeeded in making him look creepy. He had such different aspects to his personality which I guess was because he really was a mess. Jonah could act really mature sometimes and then be immature, gross, unstable and weird the next. The villain was well-written and complex. They were definitely psychopathic and dangerous with manipulative tendencies. Still, I wish that we had more sustained mystery and clashes with Prisom's Party. The Party could have been more sinister but it wasn't as dark as I wanted it to be.Given how well the villains were written and the fact that nearly everyone in the book is morally questionable, there aren't many likable characters. There are just tragedies and sorrowful characters you feel sorry for or hate. The really boring love affair Iris had with some guy from school did not move me either and felt really unnecessary. She could have solved so many things by herself without him. The switching POVs annoyed me a little too and felt like whiplash at some point.
613918177	I really enjoyed this book. I was beginning to dislike books with alternating perspectives (since it seems almost every book I read has some sort of multiple narrator facet) but in this book it fit perfectly and I looked forward to each chapter and its respective character. I loved the story and the plot; I was riveted and couldn't stop reading for most of the book. I love this genre in general, really. The only setbacks were that sometimes I felt certain aspects of the characters or plot were underdeveloped and ill-explained. Overall, though I loved this book and the message it portrayed.
405895733	I really liked The Year of the Gadfly and I always like a book that has a school setting and a secret club of some sort involved. This has been on my to-read list FOREVER and it didn't disappoint, it wasn't Fan-fricken-tastic or anything but definitely memorable and I'd recommend it to those who love these kind of novels. I loved the past and present blending into a mystery that's hard to put down.
325527856	I love books that are set in prep schools and I have to say that this is one of the best, if not the best, book I've read which was set in one. Funny, suspenseful, amazing prose, a secret society, fully defined characters...I was blown away by this book. I simply cannot believe this was the author's first book and I can only hope that we see more from Jennifer Miller!
491887272	High school students I don't hate? What?Our main character, Iris, has a brain and some courage and her own style, and it's refreshing. The story is told from the points of view of a couple different characters, which confirms there's always a bit more to know than what seems obvious.It's part mystery, part Heathers, and worth a read. Very satisfying.
333896668	This was a brilliant book. Jennifer Miller kept the plot tight with many twists that made it impossible to put down. The characters were well drawn and the different points of view were very well done. It took the reader into a fascinating world. I began to feel protective of the characters I cared about and was holding my breath that things would turn out okay. Highly recommended!
878920732	I immensely admired this book. Iris was a great narrator. The science and metaphors were amazingly well-written, and the issues at the core of this novel were addressed with respect and realism. It was fun and quirky; I liked the romances playing out in this book, and the book played out well.
339974292	Gahhhh. This book could have been a five-star. It was going along like it was going to be--I was even anticipating writing a glowing review. But the end. Oh the crappy end.You should still read it though. Easily one of the most interesting books I've read this year.
645156712	I really enjoyed this book. It had suspense, social issues like bullying, and lots of prep school drama.
2652618394	This book overly catered to the readers, girls who see themselves as Iris- different, special, smart. The book even references that every student wants to be seen as more special and smarter. Then it says not Iris. But hello! That line made me want to kill the book. It wasn't even there ironically. Maybe the author has a bit of Hazel to her- unable to let go of high school and writes a heroine who gets recognized for all the special traits that in high school stereotypes, often set someone as an outcast. I love quirky heroines and books that help the bookworm outcast girl's soul, but this was almost obnoxious in it's efforts to do so. However, the storyline did keep the pages turning. I didn't think it was set well enough at the start though. Right away Iris and Kaplan are set to change the system, but we didn't get an introduction as to what needed to be changed. It made Iris' character that much more pretentious and silly to me.I imagine a younger audience (as it's probably intended for) will enjoy the story, but I think with a bit more editing and slight altering of characters the book could have been something more impressive. I almost could see ways to rewrite it for adults, if Jonah's parts were given more attention and sophistication (it sounded like a girl trying to write as a teacher instead of adult man). It was a good effort, but didn't quite hit the mark.I am unsure how this book even ended up in my to-read pile, but it wasn't something I regretted reading exactly. The story and characters didn't do this so much as the author's obvious attempts to connect to the reader brought me back to middle school me. I could see me rolling my eyes at the patronizing attempts, but also secretly liking it.Although I had many problems with the writing, this is getting one star extra because it's a book for teens that isn't constantly talking about clothes, being famous, secret talents or any of the nonsense that's been taking over youth culture. I also loved that it referenced A Separate Peace. Dead Poets was kind of a given though. With a little bit more at the beginning, less obviousness of Iris' role and a bit more effort in the Jonah parts this novel would easily deserve more credit than the 2 star novel it is (with a 3rd given as a bonus). That potential alone makes it a bit more deserving of being 3 stars. This is getting rambly and nonsensical now. In short: decent attempt, fell short.
2113170564	5 stars !The Year of the Gadfly is a deliciously complex narrative that follows 3 voices - Jonah and Iris in present day and Lilly from 12 years before. The novel is set in a prep school - Mariana Academy. Iris is a precocious, smart aspiring journalist - her parents force her to move from Boston because they discover her talking to Edward Murrow in her head. (Literally). Jonah a Mariana Academy alumni - with a murky past of his own- has just returned from completing his PhD to become a teacher at the school. Lilly is an albino student at Mariana- daughter of the then principal and Iris is staying in Lillys house in present day. Soon Mariana's infamous Prisom Party - a secret society - bent on vigilante justice - to uphold the school's honor code of "brotherhood, trust and equality for all" starts becoming active and targeting certain students and faculty at the school. Iris starts an investigation to figure out who exactly is this secret society and how do they operate? At the same time Iris also starts wondering about Jonah's past and if he connected to the prisom party. I loved that this novel had complicated characters. It showed teenage angst, emotion and drama in a non-annoying fashion that was well written and purposeful. The novel really shows you ugly aspects of teenage cruelty and how it can have lasting effects on our lives. This book has a bit of everything, mystery, love, smarts, tragedy and adventure. The two timelines really put certain storylines into perspective and gave characters emotional depth. I liked and admired Iris's courage and could relate to her feelings of grief and not knowing how to channel them. The novel is well paced - giving you pause for thought in places and zooming action in other spots. Overall - really enjoyable and highly recommend it !
4073714901	Had potential, especially with having Edward Murrow as an apparition character, however, this aspect of the story was underdeveloped and didn’t end up being utilised to the extent it could’ve been. This is particularly upsetting, and really brings the book down in my opinion. Otherwise, the book was very average, the characters not particularly likeable, the story not particularly interesting. This story ended up feeling like Alice Osemans Solitaire (though Oseman did the secret society motif better) with the book attempting to juggle too many topics at once, this leading to an underwhelming, oftentimes confusing story. The book felt overdone in every sense and I am overall particularly upset that the aspect of this book which may have set the storyline apart (Edward Murrow) was so poorly executed, Wouldn’t read again, and am slightly offended that the blurb compared the work to Donna tarts the secret history In saying this, the book is probably good for younger audiences whose reading taste is a bit less classical and refined
1836124570	Jennifer Miller had all the elements of a good story here. She crafted enviably vivid almost-characters. The tension behind the mystery was enough to harness my attention for 100 page reading sessions. I cared about Lily, and I enjoyed the ghost of Edward R. Murrow. However, the lazy prose and binary vision of good and evil spoiled all my fun. At so many key junctures in this book, Miller chose predictable turns that left me disappointed and angry. I never felt Mr. Kaplan, a main character in both the present and past timelines, was fully alive. He glimmered but remained flat. Hazel, the antagonist, was equally flat and far too vindictive. All in all, I finished this book feeling as if it was dangerous. It possessed many of the elements of good writing, while relying on mostly lazy moral platitudes. Shut off the brain here. Miller has told you how it is. There is no room for readers to participate. The whole story is predigested and laid out for its audience.
4293808895	im not sure how i feel about this book. at times i was so close to putting it down and others i was really enjoying it. there is a lot in the story the could be cut out and a lot of the stuff are fillers. i dont feel like iris' best friend's death was integrated well into the story, although it was technically an important part with the grief aspect and all. it didnt feel real. it was kind of just stuffed into random places. the end events were where i was hooked the most i might say. they were fast-paced and exciting. my overall favorite perspective was lily's. i feel like she deserves a book of her own. she was the most realistic character. i dont get the whole "jonah was a hell-raiser" thing. what did he really do. not like to way the school worked? iris' general character is really realisticor that likeable 75% of the time but if you look past that she was ok.i would give this book a 2.7
3327625153	This sat on my shelf for years before I finally read it, and I'm glad I finally did. Miller's mystery about shenanigans at an elite Boston-area private school is fascinating and surprising. I really liked one of her two first-person narrators, teen journalist Iris who imagines conversations with Edward R. Murrow, but also likes how her other first-person narrator, teacher and former student at the school Jonah, grew through the story. The third point of view is third-person about Lily, a contemporary of Jonah who piques Iris's interest. Miller links their stories well in quick short chapters. The most disappointing thing about this book is its ugly and pointless cover art, orange and yellow leaves on a gray background. While the Northeastern weather is certainly mentioned occasionally, it hardly conveys what the novel explores. I think I would have read it much sooner if the cover was not so off-putting.
2093569648	Her mother worried any time she caught Iris Dupont talking to herself, but know that she was imagining conversations with Edward R Murrow might have been worse...still reeling from the suicide of her best friend, Iris moves with her parents away from Boston and finds herself enrolled in a private school with a mysterious past and secrets just begging to be investigated by the 14 year old aspiring journalist. The story moves back and forth between the present and past generation of Mariana Academy students, a couple of whom are still having trouble letting go of their past...interesting characters and a story that held my interest from beginning to end even though I don't imagine that I am the target audience.
1940508903	Seldom do I come across a book that leaves me so indifferent that I can't finish, but The Year of the Gadfly, in spite of its great title, is that book. Dull, self-absorbed characters whom I couldn't force myself to care about, uninteresting plot, and a chore to read. I made it to page 87. Lots of readers seem to have liked this book. For me, it's the Lost in Translation of young adult fiction. After 87 pages of the literary equivalent of bad karaoke, I just couldn't go on.
2084089932	This is a really different story about a young girl in a prep school. It is told from the young girl's ideas and thoughts and they are very interesting. There are lots of under things going on at this school and she gets involved with all of them, plus she is obsessed with Edward R. Murrow. I did not love this book but did enjoy reading it and always enjoy books told from the mind of a young person.
1999871164	I don't give up on books often, but after dragging myself through a third of the book and hoping it would get interesting, I suddenly realized it wasn't going to get any more interesting than it already was. The plot was unconvincing and uninspiring. Since I have other books waiting for me, I finally decided to close the cover on this one.
3863531514	The writing in this book is beautiful. I really enjoyed the sentences and the casual use of great vocabulary. Although there were definitely some faults pertaining to the repercussions of one's actions, I really found this book enjoyable. The storytelling split between the three characters moved along well enough and was enjoyable.
2817525562	The narrative is well-paced and clever. However, her timing is off with the vernacular. You find words popping up in the book that don't mesh. For instance, no one was using the phrase "that's so meta..." in 1995. It felt like someone dabbing in a Charles Dickens novel.
515606983	Not that I was ever a fan of cliches, but Iris has me avoiding them like the plague for all of eternity! I’m grateful. Loved her and the feeling of isolation that accompanied the atmosphere, which resonated with me.
2050275321	I really enjoyed this. It had the right amount of suspense and foreshadowing without being annoying. It is a great summer read, even if it is set in the cold, dark winter. I read it in no time flat!
4256807309	I really enjoyed this book! Iris is such a great character and I got sucked into the story and couldn't put it down.
3497742186	3.5 stars
2459531066	Northeastern prep school scandals and secret societies combated by a loner science-loving student.
5717700591	loads of fun!“Secret History” meets “Special Topics in Calamity Physics” meets me in my high school journalism era
5319815325	Slow going and not an easy one to put down and pick up without reviewing.
2670620354	Didn't finish...seemed more like Young Adult..
3172603133	Convoluted poop
3182263533	You have to have patience. The last 1/5 makes it worth it .
2146966573	God this was good. But not great. 4 stars because of all the Latin and Greek mythology references. -1 star for Lily's character, I hated her.
2614878764	interesting and complex. it had the potential to be so much more (what was the editor doing?) but i'm glad i read it.
2790665953	Engaging at the beginning but I felt the ending was a bit of a let down
6498684963	Starts off promising, but the last third was a random mish-mash of non sequiturs that just got confusing. Too many details introduced out of nowhere to make things “twisty”.
2541518024	A great story - loved it!
1457916939	My mom sends me weird books, ok? And she sent me this book, so I though it'd be weird, but it's not. Even if the cover is a little bit... off-colored...This is my favorite book. I didn't know that starting it, (and expected to hate it), but I knew that I was hooked long before the finish.I immediately started again once I did finish.Then, I stopped myself.I decided the book would be best enjoyed a second time only after its details had grown fuzzy in my mind. I re-read the parts that were calling to me ((view spoiler)[ Like when Helen met Iris and Iris told her about the threats and then the threats just stopped the next day. I didn't even notice first time around! Ahh!) (hide spoiler)] and then dutifully put the book far from reach. I haven't read it since. That was probably a year ago. It's killing me.Lois Lane. Polly Perkins. Nellie Bly (not fictional but still cool). That one protagonist lady from godzilla. Harriet the Spy. Iris Dupont. What do all of these characters have in common? They're all kick-butt journalists, my favorite archetype, my role-models in the weird way that I look at them and think, "Man, I wanna be just like them, my life is boring."Iris Dupont. Iris frickn' Dupont. I get her, you know? I get what she does and why she does it, even when it's annoying, because she doesn't even care if she's annoying, she just does it anyway, because that's how she deals with life and with grief, and I deal the same way. Everything, just... everything. ((view spoiler)[The way that she put her teacher (and Edward R. Murrow) on a pedestal and felt the need to share her grief with him? That whole final ending moment between them? I thought that I was the only one who's ever felt that way and wanted to say those things. (hide spoiler)])Then the teacher guy. I love that guy. When I first came across the P.O.V. switch, I thought, "Really? Is this necessary? Relevant, even? Can I not just stay with Iris?" But I was so wrong. See, I never like adult protagonists. Never. I can't relate to them, can't stand them. But with Jonah, I actually saw who he was. I saw him and I saw Justin and I saw everything in between and I was surprised because I loved him. I saw him especially well in the version of himself that he was when he was my age, and it ended up not mattering that he's an adult.As for Lilly, I can't talk about Lilly. This review would be endless. I have no idea what to think about her--that's the mark of a beautifully written character. Or Helen. Except to say I was once again blown-away by how this book was speaking to me, how real it all was, how I practically knew these people. ((view spoiler)[I saw a lot of myself in the teenage Helen, even when I couldn't agree with her actions. My mom isn't too great of a mom either. I know what it's like to latch onto other people and crave their attention because you don't get any of that at home (hide spoiler)]).And Wilson?! (Winston?... maybe even William? Remember, it's been a year). (view spoiler)[I hate romance and cringe whenever a love interest pops up, but this guy? Love him. And love that they didn't end up together. That's not a "typical" ending because neither of them are "typical" people. They're both very strong-willed people who believe in what they believe to be right. It made perfect sense, and the author didn't jeopardize either character by giving them the traditional "happily ever after". They got the endings that were best suited for them. I love it. It feels that much more true. (hide spoiler)].Dahlia is a self-contained mystery. She's barely mentioned, not even relevant to the immediate plot, and I love her still. She brings so many questions, and I can't decide if this is a good thing or a bad thing. She's haunting.Then there's the whole symbolism of the "gadfly" thing, the intricacy that it brings. The gadfly, and the butterfly, and the framed bugs, and the eventual intertwining of just everything-- Helen and Iris and Lilly and Justin and Jonas and everyone and it's just so good. I could say the author "thought outside of the box" but it was more of the opposite, more like endlessly unwrapping a present. By the end, you've dug so deep that it feels like your mind will implode if you go any further.This is basically Jennifer Miller's first novel, which makes me unbelievably excited. I'll be paying attention to what she writes, even if she doesn't write more about Iris Dupont. (Although I really hope she does, or at least something similar, because she's got a huge fan!) She even concluded the book masterfully, leaving Iris Dupont doing Iris Dupont things, and becasue of that, the reader knows that all is right in the world. There doesn't even need to be sequel, that's the best part. It's a great stand-alone book. I usually only ever read stand-alones anyway.To summarize: I'm in love, and maybe I'm getting a bit carried away, but I'll blame it on withdrawal.
312871102	Well done literary work set in the claustrophobic halls of an elite prep school. Miller's prose is beautifully constructed, her characters flawed and well-drawn. More complete review to follow.Full review:I'm starting to feel like novels set in prep schools should become their own sub-genre. I've read many of them now, and it's a premise I find instantly intriguing. If the book's blurb says it's set in a prep school, I'm pretty much already sold on the book--but that's not to say that all of them are well done. Though I've yet to read a truly bad one, I have read a couple that were just so-so, but not this book. This was a book that help illuminate for me exactly why I so dearly love books set in prep schools: there's just something compelling about precocious teens thrown together in such a claustrophobic setting. It's such a rarefied world of privilege that there's almost a vicious pleasure in the thought that it's a completely messed-up world. There's something comforting for the rest of us in the thought that money can't protect someone from the normal weaknesses and flaws of human beings. Some spoilers to follow, though I won't give away the main plot.My one critique of the novel is that it took me some time to buy into Iris's character. As a former teacher, I've worked with a lot of high school students and Iris didn't at first strike me as a fourteen-year-old girl. Her voice seemed too mature. But the more I read, and the more Miller peppered Iris's story with slight acts that betray Iris's immaturity, the more I came to enjoy Iris. She is very much a precocious child, and I think Miller does a nice job of showing how that precocity combined with a lack of experience can be a dangerous thing. Iris may think like an adult, but she has no real understanding of how the adult world works. I also thought Miller did an excellent job of making Iris exceptional without making her unbelievable. I very much liked that Iris was determined to go her own way, even at the expense of her social standing. This is a rare quality in teenagers. However, Miller doesn't make Iris seem heroic nor does she romanticize Iris's determination to be her own person. There are consequences, and Iris has been through more than someone her age should have to go through.Jonah also struck me as a particularly strong character. Like a lot of teachers, he goes into the profession as something of an idealist, determined to change the world and enlighten his pupils. Like Iris, he is destined to find that, if he wants to carry out his vision, he will have to sacrifice. In a way, Jonah is almost like two characters. When I read the portions told from his point of view, he struck me as very sympathetic, and I was really rooting for him. However, whenever I read him through Lily's eyes, I had a completely different opinion of him. This was very deft writing on Miller's part. It's not an easy thing to do to create a very flawed character who is still sympathetic and likable, as Jonah was. Still, I felt he was left somewhat unresolved. The impact of his past is clear, but I didn't really find him analyzing his own behavior all that much, which was disappointing. I'd have liked to see a little more self-analysis on his part.The device of switching from first person to third person when writing Lily's perspective was well used. It gave Lily a distance that I didn't feel when I was reading Jonah or Iris. I think it also serves to show that Lily's character is fixed in her moment in time while Jonah and Iris are both more plastic because they're living in the present. Lily was very complex, and her wish to just fit in was heartbreaking--how can she hope to fit in when even her parents insist on highlighting her differences? While I did kind of hope to see her brought into the present of the novel, I was ultimately glad that there was some distance kept from her. It made her unknowable, and it also left the events of the past somewhat unresolved. We don't know what the adult Lily makes of them, or if she even thinks of them at all.This book isn't a mystery, in the strictest sense. There are some mysterious elements to it and, while Iris does try to play the role of the investigative reporter, this is really more a book about how past events shape a person, how they can have lifelong influence on someone's character. Delving into this is part of Iris's first steps toward maturity. I liked the effect the fight had on her, and I left the book feeling certain that she was going to turn out more than okay in the end--which was more than I could say for the other characters. But I liked this aspect of the book, the fact that Miller didn't tie things up neatly with a bow. Part of growing up and maturing is learning that things are rarely, if ever, neatly tied up. Closure is something we seek, but not something we usually gain.
311300518	The Year of the Gadfly by Jennifer Miller (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt; 384 pages; $24). Iris Dupont, a budding high school journalist, carries on conversations with the ghost of Edward R. Murrow. As she explains, "…Yes, I knew he'd been dead for forty-seven years, but why should a person limit her interlocutors to the living?" Odd? Yes. The again, Iris is not your typical young woman. Quiet, introspective, and highly intelligent, Iris is just one of the quirky characters who drive Jennifer Miller's The Year of the Gadfly. Miller's title is an apt one. His critics called Socrates the gadfly of Athens: "No matter how hard his opponents tried to swat him away, he kept biting them with difficult questions." Iris is the horsefly in this story. She asks the hard questions, the queries everyone else wants to sweep under a rug. Iris has had a difficult year. Her best friend, Dalia, dies. The death sends Iris into a depression. Her family moves so that Iris can attend storied Mariana Academy, whose code is "brotherhood, truth, [and] equality." The family rents a house that once was home to the former headmaster of the academy. Iris sleeps in a room where the headmaster's daughter once slept. Her name was Lily. Iris feels odd living there: "…Maybe we were dopplengangers, since I was a flower (Iris) and she was a flower (Lily). Of course, Lilies were no competition for Irises…Lilies…reeked of death. Even in new bloom, their sweetness smelled rotten." Foreshadowing is just one of the plot devices in which Miller shows off her skills. Traveling to the school with her mother, Iris notices that "the mountainous peaks resembled teeth. The road stretched between them like a black tongue. And here we were, in our small vehicle, speeding toward that awful mouth." One cannot help but wonder if the school will swallow Iris. To Iris, Mariana "screamed asylum more than school." Her journalistic nose senses something sinister within its walls, and her hunch is proven correct. A powerful secret society called Prisom's Party rules the school. Prisom's Party gets students expelled and even teachers fired. What would Edward R. Murrow do? She asks his ghost this question, and he answers her. Iris decides she will investigate Prisom's Party as she works on the school newspaper. Miller makes it difficult for Iris at every turn. And that is what makes this a good mystery. Miller adds to the suspense by introducing two other characters and alternating the story among their distinctive points of view. Jonah Kaplan is Iris's teacher who once attended Mariana with his twin brother. Because the story shifts back and forth through time, readers see the teenage Jonah, nerdy and unsure, and Mr. Kaplan, the instructor who instills fear and awe in his students. Mr. Kaplan's lessons are not only about biology; they are also about life: "Embracing extremity will bring out the characteristics that make you unique and independent--different from everybody else." Miller draws comparisons between adolescents and extremophiles (extreme-loving organisms) by illustrating how very few teens are left unscarred by adolescence. The teenage years are difficult ones, and few emerge unscathed from those years. Mr. Kaplan himself still carries the weight of his adolescence. One of Miller's biggest themes is bullying. Prisom's Party is, in all respects, the biggest bully on Mariana's campus. They may as well rule the school. Miller shows how prevalent bullying is in schools all across the country and how dangerous bullying can be. In a narrative that consists of flashbacks, Miller illustrates how Lily is bullied. Lily is albino, and her difference makes her a target. In contrast to the first-person narratives of Iris and Mr. Kaplan, Miller tells Lily's story in the third person. Yet the effect is not one of detachment. Far from it. Lily's account may be the strongest in The Year of the Gadfly, especially when Iris finds a book called Marvelous Species that once belonged to Lily. The book further intrigues Iris and plunges her deeper and deeper into the mysteries surrounding Prisom's Party and Lily's fate. I recommend The Year of the Gadfly to fans of Curtis Sittenfeld's Prep, Amber Dermont's The Starboard Sea, and Donna Tartt's The Secret History. Miller's story is intelligent, sharp, and eye-opening. Miller shines as she describes the pain of adolescence and aptly compares high school to the political dealings of a Third World nation. "In high school," Miller warns, "you never knew who was your enemy and who was your friend." Keep that warning in mind as you read The Year of the Gadfly. As in Miller's novel, our enemies sometimes disguise themselves as our friends. Iris should be vigilant. The version I read was an Advanced Reading Copy.
2966507492	For book club, just couldn't finish it. Too irritating.
1541241252	The Year of the GadflyBy Jennifer MillerA review by Joanne Casale Viskup*****spoiler alert****** The Year of the Gadfly tells the story of Iris - a teenager who is struggling to deal with the painful events of the recent past as she starts at a new prep school, and Jonah – Iris’s teacher who is faced with the ghosts of a tragedy in his distant past. Their paths cross at as they both investigate a mystery involving a secret society at the school, but there’s more than just the growing conspiracy that ties them together. Iris takes a journalistic approach to solving the question of “Prisom’s Party”(even consulting the late Edward R. Murrow), while Jonah (a PhD in microbiology) takes a scientific approach. Each will find themselves asking who is a bully and who is benevolent. I picked this book because as a teacher and a journalist, I thought the combination of a school setting, investigative reporting and the ghost of Murrow would make for an interesting read and give us a lot of ground to cover as a class. Unfortunately, I find the halls of Mariana Academy to be filled with trust-fund babies and bizarre events that my students would not relate to. There is also language and content that would present a problem. Miller has her teens using words like “zeugma” and concepts like “the Sauron Eye” and the trial of Socrates – reaching way beyond the reading level of my students. While stretching vocabulary is a good thing, I’m afraid it would be more of a source of frustration. There is also graphic sexual content. The scenes serve to illustrate the vulnerability of the characters, but would be a major distraction in my class. Reading teen fiction is an interesting prospect for me as I now have many roles that color my perspective. Besides being a high school teacher, I am also the mother of a teenage boy and girl. I am also reading from the perspective of a former teenager and a woman with varied experiences and many, many books in my head. And so it is difficult to separate these viewpoints and read a book as a singularity. The Year of the Gadfly felt a lot like The Catcher in the Rye at first. Iris is from Boston. Holden Caufield from NY. Iris is grieving for her friend Dalia. Holden for is little brother Allie. Holden is obsessed with the ducks and a frozen lake in Central Park - "…By any chance, do you happen to know where they go, the ducks, when it gets all frozen over? .." While Lily – another character in Gadfly - is worried about the disappearing baby ducks at her school. The similarities are acknowledged by the author as Catcher and Holden are both referenced in the book.As a parent I take umbrage with the adults being portrayed - as they are in so much of teen fiction – as distant and dumb. Even Holden found adults he liked and trusted, but there is not one trusted adult in all of Nye, Massachusetts. The parents of all the teens in Gadfly seem to be clueless caricatures. The mysteries of the novel are all very dark and ugly. While high school does have its fair share of cruelty, the situations presented here are quite convoluted and over the top. Elaborate, artistic vandalism, a cult-like school environment, kidnappings and secret passageways, underground newspapers, lunchroom takeovers, a teacher conducting outrageous psychological experiments, blackmail – all in a school where academic pressure is constantly bearing down on the population. This is “Mean Girls” times a thousand, and it’s all a little too much. Some describe this book as “fun,” but I just don’t see it. This is a world full of monstrous and manipulative kids and adults where no one gets what they deserve. Suicide is an overarching theme and sadness and betrayal abound. Nothing fun about those things. Miller’s insight into grief is profound. I was able to relate and was touched by moments of deep sorrow her characters revealed, but I was left wanting a real connection between Iris and Jonah. I also longed for the flipside of all this darkness- hope, grace and forgiveness.
422006469	I enjoyed this book more than I've enjoyed a book in a long time. And that's not to say I haven't read some very good books, I certainly have. But this was the sort of book that worked for me on every level. There was a little bit of mystery, there was a little bit of coming of age, there were rich, full characters that were engaging, and there was a past story that was just as engaging as the current story.After her best friend's suicide, aspiring journalist Iris Dupont is unceremoniously moved from Boston across Massachusetts to Berkshires area Nye and enrolled in the Mariana Academy. Housed in the ex-headmaster's vacated home Iris soon finds herself embroiled in a tangle of the past involving her new science teacher, an alumni of Mariana, Jonah Kaplan (with whom Iris feels an affinity), his dead twin Justin, their best friend Hazel, an albino girl named Lily Morgan, and a secret society who's extreme vigilante justice upsets the halls and leaves students and teachers alike in fear. But as Iris begins to investigate the society, Prisom's Party, and Mr. Kaplan she soon realizes that the truth might not only be painful, but dangerous as well.Iris herself is completely engaging. She's clearly lonely, the fact is stated several times, and she repeatedly conjures up her imaginary friend, the specter of Edward J. Murrow, to off set this. But this is clearly no normal imaginary friend. Iris depends upon the part of herself that asks "what would Murrow do?" and projects it onto an image of the famous journalist. A strange quirk, to be sure, and enough to launch her mother into repeated sessions with a therapist, but it's such a delightful quirk to any reader that it's hard to question too thoroughly. Even when Iris, herself, seems to lose control of her imagined confidant.When I started this book I found myself instantly sucked in, enjoying the voice and pacing of Iris' tale. So I was a little dismayed when I started the second chapter and found myself reading from Jonah Kaplan's point of view. It seemed unnecessary. This was Iris' story. But I soon realized that this was not Iris' story at all, she was merely the horse that we first rode in on. This story belongs as much to the mysterious past as it does to the present. This is helped by Lily's narration. Written in third person Lily's segments take place about eight years before the current events. She's a figure from the past that found herself in the center of jealousy and young love, culminating in the death of the boy who would be her boyfriend. But since Iris inhabits her old bedroom the two girls are connected as well, not by time, but by possessions, memories of Lily's high school years scattered around the room she abandoned to boarding school.As you can probably tell there are a lot of things going on in this novel. There are multiple characters with multiple points of view in multiple times. Yet they all connect so harmoniously that it's impossible to find this extraneous. Every piece of this book is important and I left this book breathless, in love with this world and it's inhabitants. It's a good book, well written and strong, but beyond that it was a joy to read. Those two things do not always come hand in hand so when they do it's time to sit up and take notice.
344341251	What it’s about: Teenage Iris, a hopefully journalist who has been deeply affected by the loss of her best (and only) friend, has moved to a new town to begin school at Mariana Academy. It seems Mariana is full of secrets, as are most of its students/faculty. Aside from Iris, there is science teacher Mr. Kaplan, a Mariana alum with his own secret, troubled past. Parts of “Gadfly” are told from the perspective of Lily and take place in the late 1990’s, a victim of bullying who was hiding her own secrets. And then there is the resurfacing of Prisom’s Party, a once inactive secret society that sees themselves as moral watchdog vigilantes. The boundaries between bully vs. victim, and right vs. wrong are muddled as Iris tries to unravel the complicated web and blow the cover off the party responsible for a string of disturbing rumors and bullying. What drew me in: Prestigious prep school, eccentric characters (a “Marvelous Species of sorts) that all have some sort of secret, secret societies, and a plucky main character.What it reminded me of: “Special Topics in Calamity Physics” by Marisha Pessl, for starters. This is partly because Jennifer Miller, author of “Gadfly” sent me a little message on Goodreads suggesting that I read her book because of my rating of “Special Topics.” The two do have their similarities…dark mystery, prep school and cliques, clever main characters, etc. The main character here, Iris, reminded me more of a combination of Veronica from “The Heathers” and Flavia de Luce from “The Sweetness at the Bottom of the Pie.” Oh, and Iris’s science teacher, Mr. Kaplan…for me, sort of a Mr. Keating (of Dead Poet’s Society) wannabe. Mr. Keating to students: “Carpe Diem! Seize the Day!” Mr. Kaplan to students: “Embrace extremity!”What worked for me: The story is told from the point of view of three characters, which I enjoyed, especially when each of their stories began to merge. “Gadfly” shifts back and forth from present time and a late 1990’s timeline, and Miller did a great job slowly revealing the many ways that they intersected. (I also admit to feeling a bit old when I realized that the “past” storyline was around the time I was actually in high school.) Miller pretty much nailed the unique affects the loss of a (close) peer has on a teen-ager, and certainly captured the teen-age angst. The story shows what we all know from experience: What happens to you in high school follows you long after you graduate.What didn’t work for me: I found myself wondering as I read if this was actually YA Fiction (which it is not), and there were just a few scenes that seemed a bit…gratuitous. Not really a big deal, but they irked me in relation to Iris only being 14, and because they seemed totally unnecessary to the plot. The resolution was wrapped up a bit too “neatly” for the dark tone of the rest of the novel.
510510362	I'm not exactly sure how I feel about this book. 3.5 or 4 stars...... I like the fact that it was different - I have to applaud authors that find a new (and interesting) story to tell, or way to tell a story. Miller chose an interesting subject for The Year of the Gadfly. very briefly, it's about a 14-year-old girl whose parents move her to a new school. At the beginning of the book, we don't know the exact reasons for the move, only that it has something to do with her former best friend, and also the fact that she envisions herself often conversing with Edward R Murrow. ( She has high hopes of being an investigative reporter.) Definitely a quirky beginning. That, though, is just the beginning of the quirkiness. The story was very captivating at first, and I really wanted to see the many mysteries being solved, The story is told through the voices of three characters: Iris, the 14-year-old, Jonah - a former student and now teacher at her new school (and also, a possible trouble-maker during his high school days), and Lily, another former student of the Academy, (and an albino) whose home Iris and her family are currently living in. There were definitely some dark undertones at the beginning of the book, and it reminded me a bit of Hunger Games (which I much preferred). The more I got into the book, the more it became a Lord of the Flies type of story - captivating in its own way, but also quite disturbing. The characters don't seem too likable -= teachers, parents or students. But - high school is a tough time. The Academy is supposed to be all about accepting people for their differences, and yet we find all sorts of cliques going on. There was a very interesting experiment that Jonah involved the students in, which was really thought provoking. I guess that was one of the things I liked most about this book - it makes you ask yourself questions, such as: when is it ok to go along with the crowd? when do you need to take responsibility for your decisions, can anyone really identify with you, how much of the past should you carry around with you, is it preferable to be alone or to be surrounded with people who can give you a group identity?This book isn't for everyone, but it was a quick read, and could lead to some interesting discussions. Maybe the moral of the story is: don't trust anyone! As much as you think someone understands you, knows what you are going through, has gone through similar experiences - don't count on them as a friend. Maybe this is life. Or maybe this is just a jaded view of life. I don't know.
