5298523057	When criminal psychiatrist, Dr. Madeline Pine, receives a call from Private Investigator Matthew Reyes, asking for her help on a case-she isn’t sure if she is in the right “MENTAL SPACE” to be of help, as the “Strum case” from a year ago had nearly destroyed her. But, he hand selected her because she specializes in women, having written a book called “Dark Side: A Psychological Portrait of the Female Criminal Mind” and because the “Strum Case” also had a victim who was around the same age as the one he is investigating.There has been a mysterious death at a Shadow Hunt Hall-an exclusive boarding school for troubled girls, and it is being ruled an accident by police. Charlotte “Charley” Ridley was found shoeless and in pajamas at the bottom of an icy ravine, and her mother has her doubts. Her feet were too clean.Playing on the Doctor’s sympathy, he asks “If it were your daughter, who died, wouldn’t you want to know why?” She is unable to say “no”. She travels to he secluded campus in upstate New York, and finds an ancient school made of stone, with iron gates and turrets, which looks like a fairy tale castle. Given a room, by the skeleton staff, she will be given access to the four students who didn’t go home for Winter break-Kiara, Hannah, Violet and Alice.She will be tasked with interviewing the girls, hoping to gain their trust-and in turn, the TRUTH. Intertwined with the narrative is a transcript of an anonymous interview from a year ago, with all names redacted.I thought I had these conversations, all figured out. I didn’t. Early reviews for this book, spoke of disappointment that the death at the boarding school seemed to take a back seat to the TROUBLES of the good Doctor, but I had a different experience-preferring HER story to THEIRS. The school, its headmistress, the staff and the students just didn’t seem authentic to me. All a bit too weird-they seemed like “characters” in a book rather than people I might meet. I was glad when that part of the story wrapped up.And, at 400 pages, I wish it had done so a bit quicker.Coming to the end of the interview in the transcript and learning the surprising TRUTH there-was actually the more interesting reveal to me. But….PLOT HOLE!AVAILABLE NOWThank You to Harlequin Trade Publishing, Mira for the gifted copy provided through NetGalley. It was my pleasure to offer a candid review!
5441040290	From the outside, criminal psychiatrist Dr. Madeline Pine's life appears picture-perfect—she has a beautiful family, a successful mental health practice, and a growing reputation as an expert in female violence. But when she's called to help investigate a mysterious death at a boarding school for troubled teenage girls, Madeline hesitates. She's been through tragic cases before, and the one she was entangled in last year nearly destroyed her...Yet she can't turn away when she hears about Charley Ridley. After Charley was found barefoot and in pajamas at the bottom of an icy ravine on campus, the police ruled her death a tragic accident. But the private investigator hired by her mother has his doubts. If it were Madeline's daughter who died, she'd want to know why.Arriving at the secluded campus in upstate New York, Madeline's met by an unhelpful skeleton staff and the four other students staying on campus during winter break. Each seems to hold a piece of the puzzle. And everyone has secrets—Madeline included. But who would kill to protect them?Absolute bliss. If I had to describe The Night It Ended succinctly that would be the perfect phrase. All centering around the truly unforgettable character of Dr. Madeline Pine, she was the flawless combination of unreliable narrator and relentless seeker of the truth. And through her near paralyzing anxiety and self-doubt, Katie Garner crafted a character that kept me spellbound.I also thoroughly enjoyed the shrewd plot immensely. Told through both Madeline’s eyes and a mysterious unknown therapy transcript, I was left wondering how they could ever connect. But when all was revealed in the utterly earth shattering twist to end all twists, I was left reeling by the reality. Granted, I did have a few flashes of what could be coming down the pike, but I couldn’t put it together before the stunning revelation. And, because of that, this one easily rivaled The Silent Patient in how perfectly it shifted the entire storyline. And that’s saying something.The best part, though? It wasn’t the only twist to be had. Because the plot within the plot had one all of its own. On top of that, this psychological thriller was complete with the perfect marriage of eeriness and gothic atmosphere. I mean, a decrepit pile turned school for troubled girls? How on earth could that ever go wrong? And then throw in a blizzard that traps everyone on three hundred acres and you have the makings for one epic locked room mystery. But then, the less said about the actual plot the better. After all, going in blind to this one is definitely what I recommend (and why I used the publisher provided synopsis).By the end, I found myself completely riveted by this brilliant debut author. With secrets piled upon secrets and heaps of hidden agendas, I had no clue what was around the next corner. I mean, the climax was both dark and intense while also managing to be wholly believable. And don’t get me started on the first-rate conclusion that left me with my jaw on the floor. Because if there’s one thing I know after closing the cover, it’s that you shouldn’t trust anyone in this unputdownable triumph. Rating of 5 stars.Trigger warning: suicide, gaslighting, anxiety, panic attacks, depression, statutory rape, armed home intrusion, assault, death by hypothermia, mention of: teenage pregnancy, miscarriagePUB DATE: June 27, 2023*Thank you to Katie Garner, Harlequin Trade Publishing, and NetGalley for this complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.**Synopsis provided by the publisher.
5519520998	The Night It Ended by Katie Garner is a psychological thriller novel. The story in The Night It Ended is one that is told by alternating between an unreliable narrator in the present and then alternating to an unknown transcripted interview.Dr. Madeline Pine is a well known and admired criminal psychiatrist who has a successful practice. Madeline however has been dealing with her own struggles so when she gets the call late one night from a detective asking for help in the investigation of a deceased student she hesitates but reluctantly agrees to help.The Night It Ended by Katie Garner is a psychological twist on the old locked room story. The setting takes readers to a remote campus with a gothic feel to it as the unreliable narrator sets the scene. Of course everything is left up to question as the story goes along including what has happened that is being transcribed between the investigation in the current story. There are twists and turns along the way to keep the pages flying by as everything unfolds and with this being a debut I was delighted to find I would be interested in reading more by this new author in the future.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
5342090798	Dr. Madeline Pine, a criminal psychiatrist, helps PI Matt Reyes investigate the case of a girl found dead at Shadow Hunt Hall, a boarding school for troubled girls. Hidden secrets and lies are revealed. This was a very gripping read with some major twists and turns. Thanks NetGalley and Harlequin Trade Publishing for this ARC that will be released June 27, 2023!
5459431900	Unfortunately, this didn't really work for me as much as I'd hoped. To start, the mystery that's ostensibly the catalyst for this story seems almost ignored. Most of the book, in fact, is about Dr. Pine and the hazy crisis in which she finds herself. And on that note, that's the biggest thing that didn't work for me. We spend all our time with her and she's just so annoying. At no point does she seems like a functional grown-up, nevermind a mental health professional. There is, of course, a late reveal that explains some of that, but it doesn't make the journey getting there more pleasant.
5545399300	I have no idea where my original review for this book went but I read it last July and it’s an absolute masterpiece and I don’t understand why it’s not talked about more! Severely underrated
5344850897	I had such high hopes for this one...dark academia, one of my favorite tropes; a mysterious boarding school, and a dead student. However, the mystery of the dead student came secondary to the mystery of psychiatrist Dr. Madeline Pine. Dr. Pine has been through difficult cases before, so she hesitates when she's asked to help investigate. But when she sees the photos of Charley Ridley, barefoot and in pajamas at the bottom of a ravine in freezing temperatures, she decides she must go.It soon becomes clear that something is very wrong with Dr. Pine. There were numerous descriptions of her medication bottles and frequent references to sticking to a schedule. We gets bits and pieces of her past through frenetic flashbacks that usually involve her husband and daughter. I found myself rolling my eyes frequently at the doctor's behavior, which was not at all professional, but when strange things started happening in the room where she was staying, it wasn't hard to figure out what that meant. The ending of her storyline, however, was quite unexpected and shocking.I was hoping for a twisty mystery focusing on Charley, but she remained on the fringe of the book's focus, and the mystery behind her death was wholly unsatisfying and anti-climactic. I liked the book well enough to keep reading, and while I did enjoy the writing style, I just felt misled by the blurb.Thank you to NetGalley and Mira Publishing for the advance copy. THE NIGHT IT ENDED will publish June 27, 2023.
5049086337	This audio was hard to listen to at first because it was sooooo SLOW but once I sped it up, I was able to listen to it pretty quickly which made me a lot more interested in the story line. Madeline was called in to investigate a crime at a school for troubled girls and Madeline herself had her own issues going on that we were told along the way. A nice twist at the end and I knew something was going to come up with Madeline herself but wasn't sure what. It was a pretty good mystery.
5521907696	Dr. Madeline Pine is a criminal psychiatrist called into the case of a young girl’s tragic death. Madeline has become known for specializing in cases of female violence. It is the Christmas holiday and if Madeline takes the case, she will be away from her husband and daughter. But then Madeline imagines how she would feel if her daughter Izzy had been killed, so she agrees to go to the exclusive school where the death took place. Was the young girl Charley’s death a tragic accident, or could foul play have been involved? Due to the holiday, there is very little staff present at the school and only a handful of students. Madeline does her best to piece together the events surrounding Charley’s death. As events begin to unfold two things become clear - more than one person has a secret, but then so does Madeline herself. At least one secret is her unstable mental health and how she manages it. Has someone killed to protect their secrets and can Madeline as well as the private investigator also present unravel the truth?What a stunning debut novel! Not only was this book intense throughout, but the twists just kept on coming. In fact, as shocking as the twists were, the ending literally blew my mind. I can say without a doubt that this was an ending I never saw coming. As this story is being told, there are also conversations in transcript form. Both the investigation into Charley’s death and those transcript conversations were compelling. Many thanks to MIRA and to NetGalley for this ARC for review. This is my honest opinion.
5657935126	Just bad. The usual notes about numerous plot holes, clunky writing, flat characters, oddly melodramatic audiobook where every line read sounds like the narrator is about to sob. But two things really pushed this over the edge:1. This book's odd obsession with the Conceptualized Teenage Girl. The girls introduced here have the dimension of paper dolls with frowny faces; each (with perhaps the exception of Kiara) feels like a Pinterest moodboard of what a teenage girl MIGHT be like from the perspective of an exasperated, resentful parent. Make no mistake: this book hates teenage girls for what it assumes they are, that being inexplicable, angsty, and pathetically rebellious by nature. Violet, Alice, Izzy, etc. have no interiority or reasoning for their behavior, as represented by their sparse characterization and pithy dialogue. The phrase "Mom, please just stop" is repeated by one character 17 times. What is a sad teenager girl but a reflection of a Bad Mother?2. Obsessed with the way this book portrays anti-depressants/anti-anxiety medication like they're the drug scene in Dumbo. Truly a woman is at her lowest when she is "popping pills" and hallucinating on, um, Lexapro. completely fitting that I finished this while waiting in line for the DMV (update: I was there for 6 hours). Also, not dark academia!
5578583171	Ok this one snuck up on me and the ending kinda flipped my entire rating on its head. It was kind of an odd reading experience for me. I was initially into it, things started off pretty good and the setting was strong. The whole isolated boarding school on 300 acres thing was a pretty creepy vibe and then it flipped back and forth between Madeline’s viewpoint and a year prior with a transcript between two anonymous people. As I really settled into the story I did get a little frustrated though, there were lots of things about Madeleine that irritated me, it was the whole damaged female character who doesn’t know if she can trust herself because she takes meds schtick that I’m getting real tired of. But I pushed on despite this and the slow burn because I just had a feeling it may pay off. It mostly did I guess? The ending was pretty shocking and definitely not what I was expecting, it verges on banana’s territory but it surprised me, so I’ll take it. If you have patience with this one I kind of feel like the ending makes it worth it.
5675536465	This is so anticlimactic. If you're looking for a really....reallllllly slow mystery this would be a great recommendation! I just feel like it's way too long. I also don't think this audio narrator was the right choice for this book. Her intonation is very distracting and extremely melodramatic.I honestly don't think this audio narrator was the right choice for this book. Her intonation is very distracting. (Xe Sands). I cant tell if this is extremely melodramatic or if its just the Audio narrator.15% It takes a WHILE to get going hmmmm23% still feels like nothing is happening and nothing about the writing is really hooking me. (This headmaster lady makes no sense. Also, These interviewing scenes are so fake....I can't tell if it's a police interview of therapist but either way that's not how they would interview esp the police "okay okay i was just clarifying!" Lol yeah sure. Oh wait, is that because she is a Psychiatrist? Thought she was the police...)This just is way too long.HATE THE TWIST....Okay violet who was 14 and Blake that nasty old hag. That's freaking sick. 🤢ALSO, The ending twist.. okay I guess??? Im confused by it though... what am I missing??? I guess I didn't pay close enough attention, I was too bored along the way and the audio narrator really was annoying me....Synopsis: Psychiatrist Dr. Madeline is called to help investigate a mysterious death at a boarding school for troubled teenage girls. The police ruled the students death a tragic accident. But the private investigator hired by her mother has his doubts. Set at a secluded campus Dr. Madeline is met by an unhelpful skeleton staff and the four other students staying on campus during winter break. Each seems to hold a piece of the puzzle. And everyone has secrets.
5353192799	Honestly, I made it through this book by the skin of my teeth - this was definitely not a favorite for me. It was just interesting enough that I wanted to know what would happen, but my goodness it felt like it took forever to get there, and then the ending was entirely anticlimactic. So many little details of this didn't make sense to me - the main character is obsessed with her medication, yet does not remember where she puts it, or notice what they look like as she's chucking them down her throat. As a person who takes medication - this is bogus, we notice things like that. The whole school itself was bizarre beyond belief, I actually wondered for a moment if this was going to take a turn to the paranormal, because the setting would fit much better in that genre. And the freaking cut on her hand! What even is this?!?! I felt like there were some serious timeline issues here, because her constant reopening the wound, obsession with the wound, excessive bleeding, etc just didn't jive with the timeline that was described at all. The interrelationship between Madeline and Max? Will? Mark? I can't even remember his name, that's how much of an impression he made. This was another area that I felt like the narration didn't jive with the stated timeline at all. They spent whole blocks of hours and hours and whatnot in his cottage, but then it was the next morning? Somehow?This one didn't work for me - obviously. I stuck around for the ending, and it really wasn't worth it in the long run. I have seen lots of high star reviews on Goodreads, so I'm sure this book will find its audience, but I am not a member.
5187165141	The Night It EndedBy Katie GarnerRelease Date 06/27/2023My thoughts ;So, this debut book is twisty and dark. What chaps my behind more than anything in a book is a damsel in distress, esp when it’s about a professional woman who can’t get it together. However, you think Madeline is a nut case. She’s not. She’s intuitive and super intelligent. The book goes back and forth from an interview between a patient and her client and Madi’s summoning to help interview students from an all-girls school who seems to have their curriculum from mid-evil times. One student was found dead in the woods and she is trying to help a P.I. Solve the case. Is this a murder or an accident?Sound crazy? Well, not as crazy as this dungeon she appears to be staying in. I read this book in one sitting 4 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️’s#katiegarner #netgalleyreviewer #netgalleyreader #mirapublishing #harpercollins #bookblog #bookstagrammer #instareads #bookstack #pageturner #thrillmemore #htpinfluencer #suspensebooks #debutauthor2023 Book Blurb From the outside, criminal psychiatrist Dr. Madeline Pine's life appears picture-perfect—she has a beautiful family, a successful mental health practice, and a growing reputation as an expert in female violence. But when she's called to help investigate a mysterious death at a boarding school for troubled teenage girls, Madeline hesitates. She's been through tragic cases before, and the one she was entangled in last year nearly destroyed her.
5474649307	For a debut novel this gave me chills. Much better than most debit novels that I have read. The backdrop opens with our female main character getting a call about coming to a all girls school to interview students and determine if a recent death was an accident or a murder. This book has many twists and turns that left me guessing where the author was going. Lots of foreshadowing and little mentions that’s turns out to be so much more. Definitely an author to watch.
5554618566	Criminal psychiatrist Dr Madeline Pine receives a call on her way home from a therapy session from a private investigator who asks for her help. There was a death at an upstate private school for troubled girls that seems suspicious, and the PI wants Dr. Pine to interview some of the dead girl’s classmates. The Night It Ended details the doctor’s investigation, with a parallel plot line interspersed throughout the story by way of an interview session between unknown characters. While the plot had promise, the story falls flat under the weight of repetitious chapters, dialogues that just echo questions and answers, and a muddled dual timeline that is infuriatingly nonsensical until the very end. This was a slog to get through, and finishing was a challenge. I received an ARC of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
5365243351	I can’t, I just can’t… This book started out slowly, and I wasn’t sure I was going to like it. There was this niggling thought in my head that something was off and I couldn’t put my finger on it. However, I soon realized that I couldn’t put the book down and couldn’t stop thinking, wondering, about what was going on when I had to get back to real life. It was so worth it in the end, and there’s not really much more I can say than that! Thank you to NetGalley for the advanced read copy, I will look forward to reading more books by this author.
5633350407	The Night it Ended is a Mystery/Thriller with a moody, tense atmosphere and a gothic vibe. A private detective, Matthew Reyes, asks Dr. Madeline Pine to help him look into the suspicious death of a student at an exclusive school for troubled girls. Madeline agrees, even though she is clearly dealing with a trauma in her own life. Most of the students are away for Christmas break, but Madeline questions the few girls and staff members that remain on campus to find out what really happened to Charley. It's clear everyone is keeping secrets and time is running out for Madeline to learn the truth - the head mistress wants her and Matt out of the school and there is a huge snowstorm on its way.Mixed in with this narrative is a transcript from an interview with all the names redacted about an important event in the anonymous person's life. Who is the character in the transcripts and how does that tie in with the main plot about Charley's death? I kept changing my mind about this as the story progressed. I also changed my mind about who killed Charley because none of the characters at the school were really likable. As the story progresses, it is very hard to put down. There are a couple things in the story that I was able to figure out from the clues given. However, even though I read a lot of thrillers, I was completely surprised when the final twist was revealed. I didn't see this clever ending coming and it changed what would have been a good book into a great one. I highly recommend this book and would rate it 4.5 stars. I received an advance copy of this ebook at no cost from NetGalley and Mira Books, but my review is voluntary and unbiased.
5776209683	An intriguing and twisty debut psychological thriller. Fans of dark academia books will enjoy this. For those who follow me and only read clean reads: Some language.
5392673368	EXCELLENT debut!! If you are looking for a light, happy book, this is not for you. As for the rest of us, this should check all the boxes. A dark, disturbing story set in a creepy, isolated boarding school. VERY atmospheric. We have one dead student, an approaching snowstorm and unwelcoming staff and students all in a locked-room type setting. Something is not quite right with Dr. Pine. We figure this out early on. Whether it is a good not-right or bad not-right remains to be seen. She is called to the school by the Private Investigator hired to look into the on-campus death. He thinks she can get more information out of the students than he is. This was not your traditional boarding school drama that I was used to and veered off in a completely different way, but I really enjoyed it. Most of the action takes place near the last quarter but the rest is a nice set up for what is to come. I never saw any of it coming. Definitely looking forward to more from this author! Thank you to #NetGalley, Katie Garner and Harlequin Trade Publishing, MIRA for this ARC. All opinions are my own.
5323293226	The Night it Ended by Katie Gardner. Thanks to @htpbooks #htpinfluencer for the gifted Arc ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Dr. Madeline Pine is called on to investigate a suspicious death at a remote boarding school for troubled girls. In the secluded campus during winter break, she stays with four students and a few staff members, each of who hold a piece of the puzzle. This is a twisty psychological read! Bear with it in the beginning. It is slow at first but a little more than halfway through it picks up and the action begins. Once that starts, it doesn’t slow down and spirals until you have all the answers. Everything comes together but in a way that you’ll never be able to figure out or put together. “Maybe it’s never too late to change everything. Maybe I just need to escape. Besides, wiggle room is all it takes for a snake to get out of its skin.”The Night it Ended comes out 6/27.
5418431083	The Night It Ended is a fast paced dark academia thriller that takes places at a school for troubled girls. I loved how the book used redacted files and interviews to tell the true story. The whole book I was on the edge of my seat waiting to find out who the killer was and when I thought I finally figured it out Katie Garner hit me with the best cliffhanger of them all! I highly recommend preordering this book! Comes out June 27, 2023! Thank you Mira Publishers and Edelweiss for this Advanced Reader Copy.
5490055151	Scary book - something seems wrong and bizarre throughout but until the twist is revealed at the end, the “off feeling” doesn’t reconcile. Wow on the plot twist and how well it is executed. Tingly horror! Katie Garner has written an amazing thriller in The Night It Ended. Thanks to NetGalley and Harlequin Trade for the opportunity to read this chilling ARC.
7955681996	I have to admit, the ending of this book was pretty darn good. I had some SERIOUS gripes throughout the novel that I won't complain about because they may be spoilers and Garner totally had me duped. That being said, this was a long novel and it took far too long for me to appreciate the breadcrumbs that were laid out.I listened to this novel on audio and the narrator was good. The flashbacks to the prior case were challenging at times because of the REDACTED references thrown in constantly. Those portions alone may make this novel a better choice for actually reading rather than listening.
6265762284	This is a twisted thriller that I truly enjoyed. The main character has a dark secret while she is helping solve a crime at an all girls school. This is the first book I’ve read by this author and her strong writing skills have definitely made me a fan. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did!!
5653725738	It's hard to write a review for this book without any spoilers. But I had to chuck out all sense of logic out of my system to make this story somewhat work for me. An incompetent psychiatrist always gives me anxiety, especially when she is involved in actively treating and dealing with people. It drags on for a bit before there are a couple of twists at the end!
5680986511	3.75 stars rounded up to 4 stars.Dr. Madeline Pine is a psychologist that specializes in female violence. She is called by a private investigator who is in desperate need of some assistance in closing a case. A terrible accident that occurred on a private girl's campus. Or was it an accident? That is pretty much the premise of the book. I enjoyed the plot, but did feel that the characters fell a bit flat for me. I didn't really care much about what happened in the past or what was going to happen to any of them. Another thing that the book did well is that it was very atmospheric. I really felt the heavy winter storm and the cold temperature throughout the book. The reader is left in the dark throughout the book about Madeline's personal affairs. You get a little glimpses into Dr. Madeline Pine life as the story progresses. You are aware that something has gone awry in Madeline's life, but you don't find out what exactly happened until the end of the book. While I do like the conclusion at the end, it felt like that there was so much going on that I didn't care about her personal life throughout the story. Overall, I think it was a enjoyable read and a thriller full of twists.
5550878262	Gripping read. With a murder at a school for troubled girls Dr.Madelyn Pine gets the call to help find the truth. From the beginning, between interviews with a client about something that happened to them and trying to figure out the girls secrets, this book has you on your toes. What’s real, what’s twisted to make you think it’s real? Full of spine tingling twists and turns this book will have you breathless until the end.I received a complimentary copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own. Thank you NetGalley, Katie Garner and Harlequin Trade Publishing for hearing my honest review. Looking forward to reading more with you#partner
5526242290	There's just something about borderline psychopathic, wealthy teenage girls that always draws me in. It's a special kind of thoughtful evil I've come to appreciate and this author does a wonderful job of enveloping me in my favorite character arc.
5750268559	Not for me. Too many holes. Unlikeable protagonist. And everyone whispering or croaking.
5554010367	The Night It Ended⭐️⭐️⭐️.5Author: Katie GarnerI requested a digital advanced readers copy from NetGalley and Harlequin and providing my opinion voluntarily and unbiased.Synopsis: From the outside, criminal psychiatrist Dr. Madeline Pine’s life appears picture-perfect—she has a beautiful family, a successful mental health practice, and a growing reputation as an expert in female violence. But when she's called to help investigate a mysterious death at a boarding school for troubled teenage girls, Madeline hesitates. She’s been through tragic cases before, and the one she was entangled in last year nearly destroyed her…Yet she can’t turn away when she hears about Charley Ridley. After Charley was found barefoot and in pajamas at the bottom of an icy ravine on campus, the police ruled her death a tragic accident. But the private investigator hired by her mother has his doubts. If it were Madeline’s daughter who died, she’d want to know why. Arriving at the secluded campus in upstate New York, Madeline’s met by an unhelpful skeleton staff and the four other students still on campus during winter break. Each seems to hold a piece of the puzzle. And everyone has secrets—Madeline included. But who would kill to protect them?My Thoughts: Dr. Madeline Pine, criminal psychiatrist, receives a call from Private Investigator Matt Reyes needing her help interviewing some teens to get to the truth of the death of Charley. Pine is not sure if she is mentally capable to conduct the interviews. However, if it were her child, she would want to know what the truth was. PI Reyes personally sought out Dr. Pine based on her book that she wrote and some high profile cases she handled. She ultimately agreed when PI Reyes used the “if it were your daughter card.” There are two competing plots happening at the same time coming to a head at the end. What an ending, it raised my rating by a ⭐️. Some readers did not like the competing plots but I found it enjoyable. The story is narrated by Dr. Pine, in her perspective. What I disliked is that the girls that were set to be interviewed seems more character than real life. They did not appear to be authentic, not likable, and you could not relate to them. The other thing I would have like seen to be done differently is the length of the book, some of the middle could have been cut a bit. As characters in a book, there were done well, were mysterious, creative, and intriguing. The author’s writing style was complex, suspenseful, twisty, and engaging. The characters are built up, there are two central plots, each having twisty layers, some predicable, some were not predictable, with an amazing ending. I do like the premise of the book. Where it exceeded in some areas, it fell a little for me in other areas. This was a compelling, and captivating psychological thriller. Overall, I enjoyed the novel. I would recommend to other readers.
5712218461	How does one read as fast as I do? It's the question I get alot and to be honest with you, I don't mind at all. 1. I don't have kids2. I own my own business and work from home 3. I don't sleep I have struggled with sleeping my entire life. When I was little, I was afraid of the monsters under the bed and the witches in the window. As I grew up, I grew to love the stories of the witches in the windows and what lurked under the bed. I might not sleep well, but I am able to relax with my books. I promise you, I read every last word and appreciate every book granted to me. The Night It EndedI wanted this book SO SO SO bad. I had never heard of Katie Garner, which would make sense as this was a debut. A debut that I loved so much I will be singing her praises from the rooftops. This book right here is IT, and everyone needs to know about it.Without going into too much detail, I could tell you this book will suck on your soul and leave you begging for more. Garner proves herself with each passing chapter and will linger long in your brain long after you conclude. I am so excited for what is to come from this sassy little lady. Kudos to Katie Garner for knocking her debut out of the park! Check out this teaser : Intertwining the narrative with the transcript of an anonymous interview, this stunning suspense debut from Katie Garner will take you on a twisting path where nothing—and no one—is what it seems.Finding the truth seems impossible when her own dark past has her seeing lies everywhere she looks…From the outside, criminal psychiatristDr. Madeline Pine’s life appears picture-perfect—she has a beautiful family, a successful mental health practice and a growing reputation as an expert in female violence. But when she's called to help investigate a mysterious death at a boarding school for troubled girls, Madeline hesitates. She’s been through tragic cases before, and the one she was entangled in last year nearly destroyed her…Yet she can’t turn away when she hears about Charley Ridley. After the girl was found shoeless and in pajamas at the bottom of an icy ravine on campus, the police ruled it a tragic accident. But the private investigator hired by her mother has his doubts. If it were Madeline’s daughter who died, she’d want to know why.Arriving at the secluded campus in upstate New York, Madeline’s met by an unhelpful skeleton staff and the four other students still on campus during winter break. Each seems to hold a piece of the puzzle. And everyone has secrets—Madeline included. But who would kill to protect them?
5883011864	This one had a strong premise but ultimately fell a bit flat for me. I liked the dark academia concept, and had the novel focused solely on that I think it would have been ok, however also centering around the psychiatrist who was still troubled from a prior case lost it for me a bit, and while I did really like the transcript interviews woven in here, it wasn’t enough and the execution / ending was just ok.Thank you to MIRA Books for the digital copy to review.
5702748222	I didn't see that for an ending. You can clearly see the Dr pine has some ghosts that's she's dealing with with but I didn't see who was the biggest ghost. I will admit there where some small details in the book that Annoyed me. There was a time she didn't have a coat on but yet she took her coat off a paragraph later. Other than that, it's a good read.
5873577379	** spoiler alert ** Not impressed with the cheap tricks authors use to heighten interest Our protagonist kept hinting about what she had done. These vague hints are always a clue for me to read the last couple of chapters before going back.We learn that “Madeline Pine” is really “Annabel Strum” who became unhinged when her lover killed her daughter, Izzy, and her husband, Dave.She had taken a lover when her husband told her they should start seeing other people. Later she learns her husband has been doing chemo: her daughter was a typical hateful, entitled, teen who appreciated nothing her mom tried to do for her and told her she hated her. When Annabel learned of her husband’s illness she tried to break it off with her lover but he stalked and threatened her. Left text messages constantly and threw a brick through the upstairs window. Husband finds the text messages in her phone so sleeps in the guest room.When he broke in her husband tried to defend himself with a baseball bat but the stalker shot both Izzy and Dave.When Annabel came upon the scene, she found the stalker dazed next to her husband..hubby had hit him in the head before being shot. Annabel took the baseball bat from her husband’s hand and beat stalker to death A full year of therapy with Madeline Pine, Annabel starting to recover her mind when she learns that it was Madeline who her husband had been cheating with . So she lunges at Madeline who falls back and hits her head on the glass coffee table, and dies. Annabel flees taking Madeline ‘s tote bag full of all her stuff. Here is where the story begins when she impersonates Madeline when a call comes from a detective needing her help at a school for troubled girls where one if them is found at the bottom of a ravine, in the cold, in only her pajamas and no shoes..but her feet are intact..certainly wasn’t walking in the freezing woods in bare feet Fake Madeline agrees to help the nice detective, Matt, by interviewing the few girls who are still at the school over the Christmas vacation On the train to the school some glass from her scarf cuts her neck..presumably glass from the coffee table where she killed Madeline.Author uses cliche tricks to make the situation more dire. Fake Madeline keeps hurting herself so she gets blood on her neck .. then in her hand from bearing down on a plate’s broken edge, then walks in glass cutting her foot. She hardly eats anything but burned toast , takes armloads of psycho pills. (Later learns that Violet had switched her pills for schizophrenic meds) She hallucinates a brick under her pillow giving her a headache where for some psycho reason she slams her head on the pillow. She often hallucinates a silver baseball bat in different places, .representing the brick lover/stalker had thrown through her window and the bat she beat him to death with.She’s hungry, sleep deprived and cold all the time because author sees fit to send her out in the freezing cold for hours at a time instead of wearing cold weather gear.A normal human would have frozen to death She does finally figure out the murder and accomplices so saves Alice, the next girl Violet was planning to kill because Alice knew Violet was having sex with Blake. Jeremy, Blake’s son manages to save Madeline/Annabel who is about to be knifed by Blake by hitting his abusive dad over the head with a shovel. Good thing I read the end before continuing the book where the story is told in such a convoluted way it would have been impossible to know what’s going on.Gah! Author can tell a story such as this in a much more straightforward way!The interviews between Annabel and Madeline were annoying with all the names redacted
7259256790	Loved this book! The ending had be completely shocked, didn’t see the twists in this book at all. Very smooth read also. If you like psychological thrillers this one is a good one!
5639944128	Rtc thur with book tour
5516912522	Wow the second half of that was really something. I’ll be honest, I was a bit bored by the first half. Nothing really happens. There’s a lot of activity and reveals and twists in the final 25% of the book, which made up for some of the more mundane aspects at the beginning lol. The writing was pretty good but there was some repetitive dialogue that was a little annoying to read. Cool boarding school setting and good twists I didn’t see coming! I wish the main mystery with the student was more of the focus - it kind of took a backseat to the crazy stuff happening with the doctor.
5845790834	not for meThis one was really not for me! I didn’t like the protagonist at all, and the conclusion to the story felt a bit all over the place.
5765147945	⭐️⭐️ a seriously unhinged psychiatrist is called upon by a PI to help solve a murder at a creepy boarding school in upstate NY. She’s a hot mess, but apparently an expert - and I guess the *only* expert when it comes to talking to teenage girls, so, off she goes to this probably haunted, gothic, dungeon of a school…while she takes several days to conduct a whole FOUR interviews, craziness ensues. There’s a twist eventually, but it was too little, too late for me.
5654520179	The premise sucked me in, I was dying to figure out what had happened to Charley who died on school grounds in the dead of winter. Dr. Madeline Pine was called in to assist the case and I just could not stand her! There were a handful of times where I wanted to DNF because of that but I figured I’d tough it out. The beginning was soooo slow and then the end seemed rushed, it also left me with some unanswered questions and the big “reveal” didn’t seem to be as “revealing” as the author might’ve thought. Didn’t hate it but also didn’t love it, would recommend if you’re wanting a very slow burn but otherwise this isn’t for you.
5339038988	Could not finish. I was curious about the story, did want to know what happens but not enough depth or realness in characters to make me care.
5547015171	Dr. Price’s life seems picture perfect, she has a beautiful family and a successful mental health practice. Even though she is a women’s mental health expert she hesitates when she is asked to help on a case at an all-girls school. When Dr. Price arrives at the school, things feel off and she becomes determined to figure out what happened while keeping her own secrets hidden. This book was interesting but not exactly what I expected. I thought it would be more of a thriller, but it was more of a mystery. For me the biggest difference between the two is atmosphere and pacing. I felt that I wanted more than this book had to offer. However, it was a very atmospheric read and that was enjoyable. The descriptions and writing were spot on and done well. I did like the twist at the end, I thought it was clever and explained so much. If you are looking for a character driven, atmospheric mystery then check this one out June 27th. Thank you to the publisher, Harlequin Trade Publishing - Mira, and Netgalley, @netgalley, for providing me with this e-arc in exchange for an honest review. Additional Links will be added once posted.
5551323833	Rating: 1/5 starsDr. Madeline Pine is a criminal psychiatrist called to investigate the mysterious death of a student at a rural boarding school.I’m not going to say this is the worst book I’ve ever read, but it has truly been years since I disliked a book this much. As you may know if you’ve been around my page at all, I almost never give ratings below 3 stars (I have, in fact, given out only seven 1 star reviews in the roughly ten years since I started rating my reads), but I truly cannot justify giving this one anything better. I disliked the characters, the plot, and the “twists” at the end—including one that made me want to throw the book across the room (I didn’t, because I was reading on Kindle and didn’t want to break my iPad).I don’t want to rant on about this book publicly, because I’m sure the author worked very hard on it and someone out there might enjoy it, but if you read this far I think you get the point.Not recommended, but maybe try if you like: extremely unreliable narrators, chaotic plots, women making bad decisionsCW: Adult/minor relationship; death/blood/injury; mental health/illness; suicide/self-harm
5327584572	Shadow Hunt Hall is an exclusive boarding school for troubled girls in upstate New York. When one student, Charley Ridley, is found dead at the bottom of a snowy ravine, it is initially ruled an accident. But Charley’s mother believes there is more to the story and hires a PI named Matthew Reyes to investigate the case. Reyes in turn reaches out to Dr. Madeleine Pine, a well known expert in the study of the psychology of women and crime. Having just come off a very troubling case, Dr. Pine hesitates to sign on, but is intrigued and soon finds herself headed to the boarding school to assist in the investigation. On arriving, Reyes and Dr. Pine find the staff and the four remaining students on winter break to be anything but helpful. Lies and secrets surround the case and Madeline is not sure who she can trust, as even her own grip on reality seems to be wavering. This was a fast paced read that kept me guessing and questioning everyone involved. The end is an extremely shocking and completely unforeseen twist! This was such a great novel. I gave it 4 stars.
5895133666	If I could give this book zero stars, I would. I ONLY finished it just so I could post this here. I hated it. The storyline is so promising, but the details don’t even line up. Details are mentioned then completely forgotten later in the text and told as if they were always something else. Like the book was trying to gaslight me. If the narration can’t even keep simple details straight, what’s the point?! As if we are to believe that someone as absolutely useless as this person is smarter than cops and PIs and even every person who ever came in contact with the students in the story. Awful.
5373965575	Thank you NetGalley, Katie Garner, and Mira publishing for providing me an ARC of this book. While the book had a slow start, I am glad that I stuck around and continued reading. The story picks up and becomes a page turner. My only real complaint is that I found some things very unrealistic that Dr. Madeline Pine does, but the ending really surprised me!
5551984575	Deciding between 4-5 stars. This book was fantastic! The setting was creepy, the characters were believable, the storyline was intriguing and mysterious. I really loved it. I couldn’t predict anything in this book. I had no theories and couldn’t have imagined a better ending. Really good. The twist!!! Ahhh
5474378050	Whaaaaaaaatttt I love finding a book I have no knowledge of and it blows my mind! Definitely making my favorites list.
5856048989	Ugh! I never write a review but this was awful.
5601758129	The Night It Ended From the outside looking in Dr. Madeline Pine has the perfect life, a beautiful family and a successful mental health practice. She specializes in the female criminal mind. A few days before Christmas Madeline Pine is pursued by private investigator Matt, who is hired to investigate a death at a boarding school for girls in Upstate New York. Madeline at first hesitates given that a year prior a case she was entangled in last year nearly destroyed her and now her husband and daughter are no longer speaking to her. Madeline then changes her mind when Matt tells her that Charley Ridley was the victim who was found barefoot and in pajamas at the bottom of an icy ravine on campus. The police ruled it an accident but Matt doesn’t believe it was an accident. If that were Madeline’s daughter she would want to figure out what happened and why. Madeline arrives and immediately she knows something is off and everyone has secrets. Some of those secrets people would kill to protect… The Night It Ended is Katie Garners debut novel and if you enjoy mysteries you are in for a treat.Pros & Cons I also love the characters of Madeline and Matt and the chemistry they had even if it’s not a romance you knew they had chemistry. I love the setting that it’s at a boarding school for girls in Upstate New York. I can picture the dark atmosphere. It played like a movie in my head. The twist was amazing and I did not see it coming. It also flipped to the time before when Madeline was doing her previous case that destroyed her life pretty much. The only gripe I really had with this book is it seemed a bit too long and should have been shorter in my opinion. Overall Overall I enjoyed The Night It Ended. I know it was described as dark academia meets Gillian Flynn, but I think it was better than Gillian Flynn. If you are into mystery/thrillers I recommend it. If you don’t have netgalley or don’t have an early copy, pre-order the book so you can get it on June 27th. Thank you so much Leah Morse for the early copy. Katie Garner I would love to do a Q&A with you if you are available.
5680815609	Check out our full post for THE NIGHT IT ENDED on Wicked Reads.Reviews by the Wicked Reads Review TeamAvid Reader – ☆☆☆☆3.5 starsM/F Mystery/ThrillerDr. Madeline Pine is asked to consult by Private Investigator Matthew Reyes. There is a mysterious death at a school and the victim's mom wants to know what happened.As Madeline starts her quest to figure out who knows what and what actually happened, as the reader, you're thrown into an entirely different case – one that is supposed to hint at Dr. Pine's mental state.The mystery of the school girl is one that is both sad and somewhat predictable. I figured out what happened about midway through the story, but Garner throws in a few other issues that need to be resolved, so you want to finish and make sure those are handled.Garner does a good job at sucking you into the current case, but I thought that the previous case and how the reader is introduced to it was difficult to follow. Snippets here and there, all while you're still searching for the killer.I liked how it resolved and did think that it had good twists and turns.Reviewers received a free copy of this book to read and review for Wicked Reads.
5648539139	The story of a teen who dies at her private school campus is completely mesmerizing, as the story weaves from one deceptive character to another and I tried to guess who was being honest. Dr. Madeline Pine’s life is falling apart, with her husband leaving and taking their daughter Izzy with him. So when private detective Matt requests her assistance in finding out what happened to the deceased student, she accepts the invitation and is drawn into a dark and mysterious world where even the school has secrets. The characterization was spot on for the eerie atmosphere and the mystery was twisted with lots of clues being painstakingly revealed slowly. The book got increasingly creepy as more secrets were revealed and was breathtakingly complex. This is in intense, intriguing story that challenged me to figure out the mystery as well as who was trustworthy among the cast of possible suspects. It is an edgy and remarkable debut novel that is tightly plotted and well-crafted with multiple layers. I will definitely look forward to more from this author! DisclaimerDisclosure of Material Connection: I received a complimentary copy of this book from the publisher via Netgalley. I was not required to write a positive review. All opinions expressed are my own. I am disclosing this in accordance with the Federal Trade Commission’s 16 CFR, Part 255, “Guidelines Concerning the Use of Testimonials and Endorsements in Advertising.”
6801861232	4.7⭐️“Depression is living in the past, anxiety is living in the future”✨ Read if you enjoy: gothic vibes, unorthodox investigations, twists✨ Don’t read if you loathe: slow pace, unreliable narrator, mystery within a mystery There’s an eerie, dream-like vibe to this book. Its slow pace and gothic feel, work so well to create something specialI have to admit, I was going to DNF. I don’t like slow or gothic, hate dream-like vibes and most of all, unreliable narrators - but check me out - once I relaxed and stopped overthinking, I loved it!Dr. Madeline Pine is called to help investigate the death of a student at a boarding school for troubled girlsThe audiobook narrator is perfect for the vibe of the book. I struggled at first because she’s really breathy and desperate. But on reflection, she was perfect The school was so creepy and don't get me started on the staff and students! Dr Madeline’s interviews were unconventional and it was hard to tell who was more wackadoo The interviews from one year ago were interwoven throughout and boy oh boy were they gripping! Listening to the audio, with the time stamp was so eerie - I lovedThe ending, all the reveals and resolutions were fantastic! So creepy and satisfying
5543983781	This is the debut novel by Katie Garner. I am a sucker for a boarding school storyline. This is told from Madeline Price's PPOV and there is a transcript of a patient scattered throughout. Know that the name of patient and all that she talks about are redacted. This makes it a tad confusing, but I was able to get the gist of what was happening.Dr. Madeline Price is asked by a private investigator to come to the remote boarding school to interview the girls who knew Charley Ridley, the girl found dead outside in the freezing cold. The cops said it was an accident, her mother wants to know the truth. This story follows Dr. Price as she interviews the four girls who stayed at the school over winter break. As she talks to the girls, she learns there are secrets between them and the few staff members left behind. I was pleasantly surprised by the ending. Not only the investigation into Charley's death, but the secret that Dr. Price is keeping.Thank you, NetGalley, Harlequin Trade Publishing and MIRA
5811276153	** spoiler alert ** This book was...fine. It was alright enough. An issue I have with this genre (and it's partially a me problem) is that they ALL have to have the big twist, and so I find myself over thinking and looking for the twist instead of focusing. If you've read Rock, Paper, Scissors by Alice Feeney, I think this twist will feel familiar to you and you'll probably be able to pick up on it. My biggest issue with this book is that the story I was actually excited by - the murder at the creepy boarding school - was overshadowed by the main character's tragic and mysterious backstory. I was excited to be in this Nancy Drew boarding school mystery era, located in snowy mountains to boot! But that story just wasn't developed enough. The characters missed out on the depth they deserved. The main character's tragic and mysterious backstory was pretty okay though. I enjoyed following along and reaching its conclusion, I thought it wrapped up well.There were 2 books in here, I think. And one of the stories suffered as a consequence of this.
5614360477	Criminal psychologist Dr. Madeline Pine is called to assist a private investigator with the recent death of a student, Charley, at an all girls boarding school. Detective Matthew Reyes is hoping that Dr. Pine, who recently helped with a case that involved a girl around the same age as Charley, will be able to help him bring closure to Charley’s family. Some of the chapters were transcripts from an interview between two people whose names, and all other identifying info, have been redacted. I thought the premise was interesting and love a good storm secluding our characters. I didn’t love the unreliable narrator trope, and found Dr. Pine’s chapters long and harder to get through. There were some good twists, especially the last one. I definitely didn’t see that coming and thought it was clever how the two POVs were related. Thank you to NetGalley and Harlequin Trade Publishing for the eARC on exchange for my honest review.
6165784415	Okay I have many feelings about this book. I read it out loud to my boyfriend and a lot of his opinions are the same so I feel validated. My main problem is that the characters and their decision making didn’t make any sense. The protagonist is a psychiatrist, and people she interviewed who generally wouldn’t open up to other would just suddenly tell her everything????? Like why tho? Obvi it was to move the plot along but it wasn’t realistic. Also, the main plot twist was great, but it came so late in the book and impacted how you saw the protagonist. Which is fine, but because it came so late I spent the entire book wondering if she was an idiot, or if the writing was just not good.Anyway, love a mystery either way, and the twists were nice.
5426720342	** spoiler alert ** A big thanks to NetGalley, Harlequin Trade Publishing, and Katie Garner for letting me get my hands on an ARC copy of this book! I have had it on my Want to Read list for months and have been waiting for it’s release! Overall, I would say this was a 4.5/5 star read for me, only losing a point due to it being a bit slow in the beginning. But once it picked up, it REALLY picked up. It was a true thriller. Twist and turns at every page, making you question your guesses on Charley’s murder often. I think the most shocking thing was not even the revelation of what happened to Charley, but getting clarity on the Strum case… INSANE! Would highly recommend this to anyone that loves a good triller. Amazing debut novel!
5537873243	I was drawn into this story because of the unique, eerie setting. Although it was a slow start, I was engaged throughout. Madeline was an unreliable narrator, taking pills to help cope with anxiety, which keeps you guessing what is real or not. I loved that this story has a plot within a plot. Throughout the book, you see glimpses of Dr. Pine’s world and the reason why her life isn’t as perfect as it seems. This story had me guessing throughout and the ending had not one but TWO great twists that left me shocked! 😮Great debut novel for Katie Garner, I am looking to reading more in the future!
6745378774	** spoiler alert ** 3.5/5 (rounded up)there were a few small things that irked me (like the amount of whispering that went on between the characters, jeez), however the sinister vibes really kept things moving along to a shocking finale. anabel's a terrific, extremely flawed and unreliable narrator (and i'm left wondering what she really did in that kitchen after her husband and daughter were murdered, because madeline (the REAL madeline) implies it might not have actually been self-defense...)TW: self-harm, parental abuse, gaslighting, statutory rapeall in all, an imperfect but compelling thriller rife with secrets, sinister vibes, and an atmosphere you can feel. definitely checking out the author's follow-up after this.
6781280063	Overall this novel was an enjoyable way to get into the spooky/fall season. The backdrop of shadow hunt hall and young girls behavior gave way for anticipation and speed to the story’s progression. my 1st thought was that all or some of the school’s inhabitants were ghosts, a la, The Haunting of Bly Manor. The addition of “The Year Before” recordings was thrilling. I wanted to peak ahead to know, what was point of this? There is one and it is right under your nose. The grand reveal is an exemplary example of Garner’s ability to write in foreshadowing without having to suspend reality. As a fan of bone-chilling work such a Stephen King with twists and turns, I enjoyed the simply way of explanation so much that I wanted to go back and read to pick up on all the clues. A book full of great prose, a definitive quality for re-read ability
5624129827	Wow. This thriller was exactly what I was looking for. Atmospheric and creepy. I always love A closed door mystery and this did not disappoint. Dr Madeline pine is called by a PI To investigate a suspicious murder/death of a girl at an all girls school. Did this young girl walk to her death in the woods or was there something more sinister at play? While she is looking into the death you will be taken on a creepy ride. Who is messing with dr pine? Someone keeps moving or stealing her things. You won't be able to put down this Novel as you rip through the pages to see what is going on? Pick this thriller up today. It is worth it!I can't wait for her next novel. Thanks to netgalley and the publisher for this novel.
5760695965	Wow! DID NOT predict this ending! One of those twists that makes you want to start back over to catch all the bread crumbs that were so purposefully and expertfully scattered throughout. Overall, I found this to be a bit of a slow burn thriller but one of the best endings and unique narratives I’ve read in the genre in a while!
5465630747	Do you know when you’re reading a book, consider DNFing, but decide to persevere and then come to regret it? That was this book. The FMC was portrayed as being on the verge of a psychotic breakdown and tbh so I was. The twist was so random and felt like a last minute addition that hadn’t had much thought behind it. If you want a good thriller then don’t read this
5550675220	This book was a little hard for me to get into, but at the same time there was a question in the back of my head about where it was going and what had actually happened to Charley. The ending to me is what saved this book from a 2 star review. Dr. Madeline Pine gets a call asking if she could come help Detective Matthew Reyes work a case at a remote all girls school up north. A girl was found dead, and he has been hired to determine if it was an accident or if something malicious happened. It is referenced in the call that Detective Reyes found Madeline through her book, and her work with a case called the Strum case from the year before. Madeline agrees, and so the story begins. Detective Reyes wants Madeline to interview the remaining 4 students that are at school for winter break. He apologize for keeping her away from her family during that time to which she responds they are at her in laws. Once the interviews begin, all of the little clues come into place that all is not as it seems at this school. There is something going on, and they will get to the bottom of it. Honestly, the ending is what saved this book from a 2 star book for me. It did feel like all of the revelations were thrown together, and I had to re-read the ending to make sure I understood all of the twists but once I confirmed I would say WELL PLAYED!The writing in this book was a little challenging for me. It writes like Madeline is having psychotic episodes. There are a lot of references to people hurting themselves, anxiety and depression in this book. There is also this weird possibility of a romance aspect that was unfulfilled between Madeline and Matt. I think what hooked me was the police interview that kept popping up from the year prior with absolutely no explanation of who was being interviewed and for what until the very end. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for giving me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
5865605788	I loved this book. I love when novels are unpredictable, and although I was able to predict some of the scenes, the ending took a turn that I did not see coming!I did find it a bit slow at times, but overall worth the read and kept me interested the entire time.
6687224472	aughhh god I read this in like an hour and a half because it was such a propulsive read. the vibes are truly so so so creepy and just off the entire time. the reveals at the end are kind of underwhelming but it really doesn't matter with how incredibly unnerving this book is from start to finish.
6036007228	A new author for me. A 'locked door' mystery with a death at a private school for troubled girls. The protagonist has some mental health issues which aren't clearly defined but the story unveils itself as she tries to solve the murder. You won't solve this before she does! Also some great twists.
7831500720	3.5 stars rounded up. Until the twist at the end, I thought this was a solid 3 stars but whew, that completely blindsided me and let me tell you—with my pattern recognition ability, that’s hard to do. 🤣 The pacing was slow, but the last few chapters were jam packed.
7652060625	I had no idea what to expect out of this read… but I was shocked throughout it. It definitely to me gave some similar vibes to The Silent Patient, and I was not able to discover the big twist until towards the end. It was a good read :)
5700453464	Save yourself the time this was so predictable and the plot twist was evident. If you are into mysteries and plot twists don't read. If you are new to the genre, also don't read.
7710801097	If I have to hear this lady talk about her pills one more time…Such a good premise but the main mystery that was supposed to be driving the book felt like it was put on the back burner for all of Madeline’s whining and largely unnecessary back story.
5360884643	Disappointing. That’s my one word review. This started strong, but the main character became insufferable.
5879023920	Really quick and easy read. Definitely kept my attention the entire time. Was not expecting the plot twist!
5504135178	Too many missing pieces at the end, and plot lines that didn’t really serve a purpose.
5708215478	This is definitely a sloooooow burn mystery! The audio book was also recorded or edited so slow. I was on 3x speed and it didn’t even sound fast.
5711147286	4.5⭐️ wowzers didn't see that ending coming.
6305106557	Unexpected ending!!!
5829784659	Was a slower paced-book for me. But author kept the story intriguing and leaving little clues throughout. The twist at the end wasn’t a jaw dropping revelation but it was an “ah-ha” moment for sure!
