1967150170	Okay, I knew. I knew going into this that I was going to enjoy it. But I was not actually really expecting this to be one of my favorite YA suspense novels of all time. But I swear to god Dana Mele could have been looking into my brain’s idea of a perfect YA thriller and STILL would have nailed it. ya girl just read and adored an arc of the fucked up sapphic mean girls book and is officially living life to the fullest. People Like Us is a thriller driven first and foremost by character dynamics. Most of which are either vaguely twisted and/or vaguely gay. It’s almost a love triangle, but it’s also… not. It’s more like a twisted web of character dynamics that just got me more and more enthralled. It’s a book where everyone is holding secrets, everyone has something up their sleeve. And thankfully, that is exactly my genre of thriller.While the characters felt occasionally hard to keep track of at the beginning of the book, it’s hard to overstate how much the character focus helped my reading experience – there were so many possible suspects and motives that I had no clue who it could be. And even better, literally no character in this book feels totally flat; even very minor side characters are given sympathetic moments that they wouldn’t get in any other book. I’ve seen several reviews criticizing the fact that all of these characters are pretty awful people, and... well, they’re not wrong. But for me, these characters were interesting and sympathetic, despite some of their awful deeds.Something I definitely noticed was just how well Kay’s narration fit her characterization. Kay’s voice is very engaged with the situation, yet she is strangely cold and undramatic in her telling. No moment was given more drama than it warranted, creating a situation in which the audience simply must process the sheer gravity of what is occurring. And it completely fits Kay’s personality - I don’t even know how to explain it, but her narration fit her so perfectly. I got so attached to her by the end.Something I really liked about this is that it’s essentially set in a world where being sapphic is totally normalized - there’s not even any angst over unrequited crush on a straight best friend. I’m sure someone will be upset by the lack of labels, but for me the book felt like a breath of fresh air. I loved that Kay’s crush on Bri isn’t the main plot point, but is still a major factor. Even that love-triangle-with-boy-and-girl thing couldn’t bother me in the totally normative space of this book - it is written so perfectly and not at all as a sexuality crisis. No character is bothered by Kay or Bri or any other character being sapphic. This is everything I’ve ever wanted: a queer girl thriller where the drama isn’t that they’re queer. Come on, you have to admit that’s awesome. You have to. Something that struck me a lot about this book is that there’s no red herring; it’s just a slow buildup to a final reveal. And while the reveal isn’t actually the most shocking thing I’ve read in my whole life, it still surprised me. Which is a really hard to do after a long life reading thrillers, but just to reiterate: this really was not your typical YA thriller on a lot of levels. And even if it had been, it’s not the who that impressed me - it’s the why. I didn’t guess the who, either - couldn’t pin my guess down - but I really did not guess the why. I’ve been thinking about why the reveal stayed with me so well, and I think it’s because I genuinely didn’t want any of these characters to be the killer. I knew one had to be. Of course. But I felt genuinely attached to these awful, terrible characters. That’s another thing sticking with me as I finish this book – People Like Us could have survived off its reveal alone or its characters alone, but Dana Mele chose to go further, to pull off both. It's an achievement worth reading this book for. → elise nitpicks her faves ← Very minor spoiler, but tagged anyway: (view spoiler)[Nola’s wish to join the soccer team felt vaguely like a random plot point, especially with her lack of talent (hide spoiler)]. And major TWs: (view spoiler)[some descriptions of dead animal and human bodies, discussion of suicide and death. It does not pull the One of Us Is Lying twist (hide spoiler)]. Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
2120853222	great writing and pacing, sooo entertaining, weak ending
3368136526	i enjoy a good boarding school mystery as much as the next person, but the characters completely ruined this book for me.i have limited patience for catty teenage girls and this particular group of mean girls really drove me up a wall. i find it a difficult challenge to redeem this kind of character - not impossible, but difficult - and there is not one ounce of possible redemption for this group of girls. they are the literal worst, not to mention they are carbon copies of each other.such a shame this whole ‘murder mystery’ revolves around petty bullying and unrealistic revenge. just not my cup of tea. ↠ 2 stars
3325366860	Una montaña rusa… ¿en el mal sentido?Llevo detrás de este libro desde que anunciaron su publicación en Estados Unidos, hace ya casi tres años. Hablé de ella en mis redes sociales, y no ha sido hasta ahora que he decidido que era el momento de darle la tan merecida oportunidad. Y no, no me había hecho expectativas previas porque en mi vida me había encontrado con nadie hablando de este libro en redes sociales, y mucho menos dando su opinión al respecto. Así que os cuento…En Chicas como nosotras tenemos un poquito de todo. Desde asesinatos a tramas de amoríos, celos y venganza, pasando por pasados traumáticos, acción e investigaciones policiales. Sí, son elementos que me gustan, porque desde el primer momento me pareció un cruce entre la serie Pequeñas Mentirosas (porque hay un anónimo-sabelotodo-extorsionador) y a Élite (porque es una escuela de gente top, que se preocupan más por las apariencias y los éxitos profesionales que por ser buenas personas). ¿Qué podría salir mal si parecía mi libro perfecto? ¡Ah! Y además, la protagonista es bisexual. Yo estaba como, gurrrrrl… this IS for me!Peeeeeeero…Pasaban las páginas y me iba introduciendo más y más en la historia. La primera mitad del libro me enganchó bastante. El tema del anónimo extorsionador me parecía una fantasía (porque SIEMPRE me lo parece), y más en este caso. Ver a pijas llorar por perder su vida perfecta… Ufff, qué penita. Así que yo estaba apoyando en todo momento a mi querida protagonista Kay. Sin embargo, según avanzamos más y más… Uf. La cosa no es tan buena.La protagonista tiene un pasado super turbulento que literalmente no terminamos de descubrir hasta la última página. Literalmente. La autora juega durante toda la novela a contar su pasado a medias, convirtiendo a Kay en un alma en pena. ¿Sinceramente? Lectura diagonal en esas partes. Hay que saber dosificar y jugar correctamente con este tipo de tramas, y más si esa información que no vas compartiendo es tan relevante en el personaje. Al final ¿qué es lo que pasa? Que se pierde el interés, y claro, sabes perfectamente que las cosas van a ir por otro camino porque la maldita protagonista NO ES HONESTA. Estás leyendo una mentira y lo sabes. Pero bueno, tampoco quiero entrar demasiado en detalle para no revelar demasiada información..Respecto al resto de personajes me ha parecido curioso ver cómo había tantos, y con subtramas que se entrelazaban entre ellas. Sí es cierto que eso es lo que hace que esto se asemeje a los libros mamarrachos que me gusta leer, y quizá por eso en ese sentido me ha gustado que de alguna manera sea ‘coral’.Otra cosa que me ha gustado mucho es el tema del asesinato. Dejando de lado los motivos y las personas implicadas, todo el entramado me ha parecido lo más interesante de la novela. Hacia el final del libro la autora trata de que el asesinato no sea tan importante, sino el viaje interior de la protagonista en busca de… Uy, perdona. Me he dormido solo pensando en ello. Señora, ¡que quiero que me manipules continuamente! ¡Que quiero cadáveres! Pero bueno, en ese sentido, todo el tema policía y homicidios… Pues oye, ni tan mal. Entretenido.Ahora bien, respecto al ritmo o el estilo de la autora... Lo siento. Había páginas y páginas describiendo la casa de no sé quién, la ropa que llevaba no sé cuántas… Ninguno de estos elementos en los que la autora se para son relevantes en la trama. ¡Y los que son relevantes pasan desapercibidos! Porque claro, la protagonista no está muy bien mentalmente, entonces pues te lo comenta de pasada para que resulte confuso. Y eso no va mucho conmigo.La relación lésbica de la protagonista… Pues oye. Un tira y afloja constante. Me encanta que en ningún momento el libro trate sobre temas como salir del armario, o similares. Es un thriller juvenil que resulta que está protagonizado por personajes LGTB. No hay muchos libros que puedan presumir de ello, así que es un voto a favor.En definitiva, la novela se va deshinchando y vuelve a coger un poco de fuerza al final. Como cualquier thriller, cada x número de páginas todo apunta hacia un lado, luego va para el otro, etc. El estilo de la autora es confuso en ocasiones, pero tiene magia para los diálogos y para crear un puzzle que se va construyendo. Ha sido una lectura entretenida y la salvo porque me ha enganchado lo suficiente para mantenerme intrigado, pero vamos… Creo que podría haber sido mucho mejor.Trigger warning: tramas sobre suicidio, muertes violentas y filtraciones de nubes.
2431686070	Ever since I read One of Us is Lying, I’ve been looking for another YA suspenseful read and this one fit the bill.Going in I figured out the culprit but that didn’t diminish my enjoyment one bit, I really had a good time with this book. The characters are compelling and complex. There is LBGTQ representation and lots of boarding school drama and murder to keep things interesting.The story takes places (mostly) in a boarding school and it is told from the point of view of one character. You might enjoy this book if you liked One of Us is Lying or We Were Liars.Overall, this book was entertaining and fun (in a murderous sort of way), I recommend it to readers of YA, thrillers, and contemporary fiction.
2143909278	** spoiler alert ** SOOOOOO BAAAAAAD. Yet another bizarro teen drama where some crazy murder plot is all because of a STUPID HARMLESS PRANK. WHY are the kids taking this into their own hands. WHY are there 500 characters. WHY is everyone a one-dimensional bitch and/or asshole. WHY IS THIS SO BAD.-Everyone goes from being acquaintances/perfect strangers to do-or-die BFFs in like a hot minute. "hello dude I've never met before right now, please let's go get coffee and you can tell me all about your dead girlfriend."-"How did you know it was actually a BLADE she killed herself with? It could've been glass or a chunk of plastic." Bitch, someone slices their wrists open, I'm gonna assume blade, wbu? That's not me mysteriously knowing pertinent information in a murder investigation -- that's just deductive reasoning.-Apparently fully half of the student body at this girls' school is either gay or bi.-The whole deep dark Dear Valentine secret was that you sent someone a rib bone from the dining hall and a candy brain? Um. 'Kay.-When the whole school is vandalizing your dorm room and blowing up your Facebook and all your housemother says about it is "I'm busy"? Ain't no adult going to take any responsibility here?-They traced the label on a bottle of alcohol...back to his dad's credit card?? That's -- that's not how any of this works!-WAIT. THE DEAR VALENTINE BULLSHIT PRANK IS WHY SHE'S ***MURDERING*** PEOPLE???!!?!??!?!?!?!??! OMFGGGGGGGGGGG
3697200247	I really liked this one, and I was reading it really intensely. I'm a sucker for dark, private-school-setting murder mysteries (as a private school student, it kinda scares me that there are so many). There were definitely a few flaws and a bunch of things I had problems with, but the story itself and the premise of this book hooked me immediately.The plot. This is a YA murder mystery set in an all-girls private school. Everyone thought the death was a suicide. Then the protagonist, Kay, is targeted by the dead girl, who is blackmailing her with her knowledge of Kay’s past – which Kay has worked for years to bury. From that, you can probably already gather the three words I would use to describe it: dark, intense, and bitchy.The setting was really interesting for me, because I go to a private school (not a boarding school though – I wish). Bates Academy, however, is nothing like my school. At Bates, all the girls are extremely rich – Gucci dresses are everyday wear, and custom handmade designer tennis whites are literally social expectations. That's entitled. But I have to admit I'm jealous because I HATE my school's uniform.Unlike these girls, though, Kay is poor – her parents live in a small, rundown house in the suburbs and can barely afford the bills. Kay has to resort to relying on her soccer scholarship and borrowing her friends’ clothes for parties.Despite this, Kay has managed to accumulate a friend group of the most powerful girls at Bates – the Mean Girls of boarding school, essentially. They’re all academic, excelling in their respective fields and electives; they’re athletic, trumping every sports tournament that comes their way; they’re hot and wild, crushing every party they attend. This pretty, bitchy world shatters when, on their way to go skinny-dipping on Halloween (their post-costume-party tradition), Kay and her friends find a body floating in the lake. Then, Kay receives an email from the dead girl, Jessica Lane – demanding that Kay exact revenge from beyond the grave. Or Kay’s past and secrets will be exposed to everyone.Fun, right?The characters were all so much fun to read – although they weren’t exactly the nicest people, if you know what I mean. Scratch that, they were almost all nasty. They had their reasons, mostly, but still. Nasty.[Nola] “Is there something you did to her? Maybe something you've forgotten? Something you didn't even think twice about? Anything?”[Kay] “None of us ever spoke to her before she turned up dead. She was a nobody.”[Nola] "Maybe that's what you did. No one wants to be a nobody.”Kay – the protagonist. She has skeletons in her closet and some bad experiences with death and police investigation, both of which occur again when she and her friends find Jessica. She’s kind of...I don't want to say fake, but she's definitely got on a mask in her own way, with the way she acts better than everyone else despite knowing that she’s so much poorer than they are. Her emotions are tangled, her goals are set, and she’s rebuilt her life from the horrifying pit it used to be. Her perspective is trippy, because of the flashbacks and her own teenage-girl mind.“I don't want to fall back into that wild spinning nothingness again. Because once you're in it, there are no footholds. It takes something extraordinary, a cosmic alignment of divine proportions, to pull you out.”Bree – Kay’s closest friend in the group. She is the most understanding and moral-minded of them all, and she wants to be a lawyer. She and Kay have been at an impasse of sorts, as Bree used to want Kay, Kay wants Bree, and they’re both dating other people and hurting each other and basically being confused crushing teenage girls.“Dance like no one is watching; email like it may one day be read aloud in a deposition.”(Yes, that’s Bree’s motto.)Nola – the "weird emo girl" who generally flew under the radar at Bates, unless targeted by Kay’s group. Kay enlists her help in figuring out Jessica’s email and revenge, as Nola is good at hacking and spying. Nola is unapologetically weird and is not accepted by the majority of Bates. She’s the definition of outcast, and her personality is odd; yet somehow, she becomes one of the only people, if not the only person, that Kay trusts in her investigation.This was so intense to read – the tangled romance, suspicious death, and deceiving characters were so unique and exciting. I was up till one AM reading (well, I’m usually up till one anyway, but I’m usually just lying there staring at nothing).I’m not a murder-and-suspense kind of girl – more like magic-and-epic-battles (*loud coughing* Sarah J. Maas *loud coughing*).Yeah, I know. I need to get over SJM.But seriously, reading this was stressful and it makes me kind of mad that it’s not a very popular book. It deserves to be made into a movie or TV series. I can’t say it’s a favorite book, but I’m definitely going to revisit it. Soon.It reminded me a bit of Thirteen Reasons Why, with the death investigation and the revenge blog, but they’re very different concepts. This one was more of a thriller, and believe me it was wild. I think the main thing that was wrong with it was the characters and their actions. Anyone who has read this will agree with me when I question Kay’s actions regarding her past. Girl why would you do that. WHY WOULD YOU EVEN CONSIDER DOING THAT.Okay I guess she was in a fragile mental state at that point, but still. I hated that reveal and I thought it was a major flaw that it was written in so casually the way it was. I don't think Kay was justified at all.I think the main flaw with this was the characters’ actions in general. They were, in some cases, so morally twisted and so horrifying that I couldn’t process how they could have done it. And even the little things, like the petty crimes committed by half the girls, were blown over and disregarded like they weren’t worth it.And yes, I know that’s not really something to judge the book based on. But it was really twisted, and that kind of aspect just threw me off personally. They shouldn't have been written over the way they were - or worse, justified. I feel like a lot of these kinds of books tend to say "but they're wild rich teenagers, they don't really have any rules to follow!" No. I don't care that a small percentage of kids my age act like this. Most of us don't, and it's wrong to justify it.And then there was the hierarchy type mindset, in which the girls were furious over having to do anything “ordinary” like public school or not wanting to wear a specific color of Balenciaga jacket. That was low.Overall, would I recommend this? Definitely, but it depends on your personal reading preferences. If you like mystery or suspense, or you want to try out the genre, I would definitely say go. I really enjoyed this one.
2204868685	Hello. I'm Dana Mele, the author of People Like Us. I'm late to the game, but I wanted to add a trigger/content warning for the book. People Like Us references death of people, death of a cat, suicide, cyber and in person bullying. As always, there may be other triggers for other readers, and I'm happy to add to this. I'd be grateful to anyone who felt like bumping this up. <3
2095750582	It’s the sort of thing that bugs you after someone dies. You remember little ways you wronged them. Even if they deserved it. This is exactly what I wanted it to be. Different books popped into my mind while reading..among them: Dangerous Girls, Pretty Little Liars, Allegedly. These have always been my favorite kind of YA books. I can't help it. I live for a thriller. And there is just something about murder mysteries and mean girls that go hand in hand. It just works. Fill them with twists and unlikable characters...I am here for it.Kay Donovan reinvented herself when she came to Bates Academy, an all-girls boarding school. She left everything from before behind. No one has to ever know about how she lost her best friend and brother. Kay became the cool, mean girl who everyone wants to be friends with. She's captain of the soccer team and ringleader of her friend group - the type of group that thinks they're funny coming up with witty insults about everyone around them and doesn't think about how anything makes other people feel. “I can’t believe she hurt you that bad and you never said anything.” Well, the story starts with a tradition..skinny dipping in the lake after the Skeleton Dance. Only it doesn't go as it usually does. Kay's best friend Brie jumps in first only to discover a body. If only they knew this was only the beginning...The next day, an email shows up in Kay's inbox from the dead girl. It is blackmail. If Kay doesn't complete each item on a list, her secret & proof of her crime will be sent to her parents, the police and every student at Bates. What's interesting is the list just leads to more secrets and lies and puts Kay in a position to hurt her friends.And a whole string of secrets and investigating and hookups ensues. Something I really loved is how there wasn't just one mystery to the story. There is who killed Jessica, of course. But also, who is blackmailing Kay? What is the secret Kay has about what she did in the past? & I accumulated a few other mini-mysteries as they were introduced, but mentioning here would be pure spoilers. I enjoyed figuring out all the bits and pieces along the way. I also really liked figuring out the dynamics of Kay's friend group with Tai, Tricia, Maddy, Brie and Cori. There's something about female friendships that can be so twisted and messed up, but still completely fascinating and even relatable. I enjoyed the psychology of it all. Does someone who does one bad thing, even one really bad thing, deserve bad things to happen to them? Deserve to be murdered or framed for murder? Oh and did I mention that most characters in the novel appear to be sexually fluid. It's not explicitly discussed with labels, which I am 100% on board for and wish more books would take note. It's normalized and no one is bothered by what gender you're having sex with or want to have sex with. It just is.I can't go without mentioning that I was super annoyed for the Game of Thrones spoilers. Thanks. Because I have been saving the show for an epic binge later & I dodge spoilers like a boss. But it's a bit difficult when you put them IN A BOOK that has nothing to do with GOT, by the way.There were a couple minor plot-holes in question that weren't actually that big of a deal in the grand scheme of things. (Do not click the spoiler tag or you're asking for spoilers. This should be read AFTER finishing the book). I did however want elaboration on (view spoiler)[the Nola/Bianca thing. Or just Nola in general. AND the Dear Valentine thing didn't seem so big that it should've been the catalyst to the murder(s), but clearly mental health was a factor. I expected the Dear Valentine thing to be an even more fucked up "prank." I guess when mean-spirited things happen to you they seem like the biggest thing in the world. And they never really seem that mean from the perpetrator's perspective. However..it is putting energy into doing something mean to someone. So still..fucked up. Just not murder-a-stranger-to-frame-you-for-murder-worthy. (hide spoiler)] Even if you figure out some things along the way, it's still a fun, wild ride. I put together the who, but couldn't for the life of me figure out the why leaving me still thinking it could be other people too. Oh, and I really liked that extra final reveal.The writing is sharp and beautiful. I actually tried to take my time to appreciate the gorgeous descriptions among the binge-worthy mystery. It's official: Dana Mele is on my radar.I can already foresee the Riverdale and Thirteen Reasons Why comparisons on top of the YA books I mentioned above, but honestly this hit that sweet spot for me. If you enjoy any of the aforementioned shows or book, or just love a good YA mystery, this isn't one to miss.
2455606730	People trust people who are like them.People Like Us by Dana Mele….oh, what to say about this book that could ever do it justice?! Seriously, words fail me. I just fucking LOVE this novel. LOVE. IT. Like buy-every-copy-available-and-force-all-my-friends-to-read-it LOVE. Can my review just end here? No? Well, I guess I should tell you what it’s about….Actually, the premise isn’t my fave. There’s my one criticism about this book. The blurb just doesn’t fully convey the story’s brilliance. But here you go, the premise as written on the inner flap: Kay Donovan may have skeletons in her closet, but the past is past, and she's reinvented herself entirely. Now she's a star soccer player whose group of gorgeous friends run their private school with effortless popularity and acerbic wit. But when a girl's body is found in the lake, Kay's carefully constructed life begins to topple. The dead girl has left Kay a computer-coded scavenger hunt, which, as it unravels, begins to implicate suspect after suspect, until Kay herself is in the crosshairs of a murder investigation. But if Kay's finally backed into a corner, she'll do what it takes to survive. Because at Bates Academy, the truth is something you make...not something that happened.So People Like Us sounds like a Pretty Little Liars knockoff. It’s not. Well, it is if Pretty Little Liars were written by Donna Tartt or Tana French. Basically, it’s what Pretty Little Liars *should* have been. A snarky, spot-on commentary of adolescence in the internet age. The computer-coded scavenger hunt is actually a revenge website set-up by the dead girl to take down Kay’s inner circle. Like a cyber-version of A. Kay is forced to reveal her friend’s most intimate details or her own secret shame will be revealed. To the entire school. Essentially, it’s kill or be killed and Kay’s a born predator. Now, you may say that the above description may sound like standard mystery fare. But oh, how wrong you would be. People Like Us is so much more than a mystery. It’s more than just another Mean Girls redux. It’s a savage dissection of high school in the 21st century. Of what it’s like to be a teenager when your entire life can be dismantled by the click of a mouse or the tap of a finger. People Like Us is just…. GENIUS. Dialogue is razor sharp, characters exquisitely crafted, writing on point. But what makes People Like Us so much better than the average bear are the universal truths it exposes: Hands are the biggest obstacle. There’s nothing for them to do. It was the hardest part of picking up soccer. My reflex was to grab at the ball, protect my face, flail. Hands are too much a part of us. They give us away. People Like Us reaches into the recesses of your brain, picks out your innermost thoughts, and records them for posterity. The musings that are so accurate to life, but never verbalized. Because of this, the elite prep school setting and Gucci-clad characters, become relatable. A feat that many books with similarly exclusive surroundings fail to do. There are self-preserving lies and there are anesthetic lies. Characters are further made accessible by their complexity. Stereotypical villains are rendered sympathetic. “Nice” characters aren’t always so nice. Sexuality is fluid. In other words, People Like Us features HUMANS. People with foibles, quirks, and intricacies. Teenagers in all their bright, shiny hormone-laden glory. And those characters elevate People Like Us from Pretty Little Liars knock-off to perhaps one of the best books written about teenagers this decade. Summary: If you haven’t already surmised: READ. THIS. BOOK. But give yourself a good window of time because you won’t want to put it down. Actually you won’t be able to. It’s that compelling.
2442793766	This book was so hard to put down!!It is one of those books where you get hooked in on the first chapter and all you want to do is continue reading it just to find out what happens next. Something I love about it was the range of diverse characters. We have characters who are from the lgbtq+ community and characters of different ethnicity. A lot of YA books don't have this representation so it was good to see this. I also liked seeing the bullying aspect of students lives and seeing some of the effects bullying can have on people. This doesn't get spoken about in most YA books so I loved seeing this story be told to young readers.Highly recommend this enjoyable read!
2383294320	Wow, I just rated a YA thriller five stars! This was fantastic! Even though Dana is visiting my book group later this month, this is 100% my honest opinion. This was fun! This is what I wanted One of Us is Lyingto be. Give me more of this in the YA thriller/mystery genre. Although I've read many thrillers/horror/mystery in the YA category - I've also bitched and moaned about how little the categories have to offer in YA. I've been clinging to hope that we'll start getting solid entries and we've slowly started to get some I believe and this book is no exception. I was sold almost from the minute I started. I found myself constantly shocked at all these girls behavior, but in the best way possible. Our main character Kay is one of the more popular girls - she isn't a nice person by any stretch of the imagination and she is perfectly ok with that. When Kay and her group of friends find a dead girl while partying, things get crazy FAST. I'm going to be really vague with this review because this is one where you want all the twists and turns to be revealed as you're reading. I mean what would be the point otherwise? My favorite thing about this book is that there are no red herrings, everyone was suspect but for actual legitimate reasons. All these girls have done very questionable things that would get them on that suspect list. No one is accused for no good reason. Also, all the characters get developed - they aren't one-dimensional but they aren't exactly likeable most of the time either. It's very well put together. I did guess the ending but it didn't take any enjoyment away - I wanted to see it all play out. It also took me at least halfway to even begin to have a clue what was going on. Usually within the first few chapters I have it all figured out. I would highly recommend this book if you want a great binge read. Go read it now! Tell me what you thought!
2343149770	I really liked this one! I had an inkling about who the killer was near the beginning of the book, but I did not expect the reasoning behind it at all! I also didn't suspect how fucked up Kay's secret was. While I did enjoy People Like Us , it wasn't a 5-star book for me. I loved the mystery and the twists, but I just didn't really care about the characters that much. Nothing about them stood out to me, and some seemed like they'd play a bigger part and then were never heard from again. All in all, though, I was pleasantly surprised by this book.
2311576328	Before I begin my review, I'd like to place a disclaimer for everyone who's reading this: Just because I was not a fan of People Like Us, it doesn't mean that you should be deterred from picking this up. This read is a contemporary, sexually liberating read for the LBGTQ community, and is actually quite fun! People Like Us centers around a group of teenage women at elite prep-school The Bates Academy; Katie (aka Kay) Donovan, Brie, Maddy, and Tai. These socially prestigious women are the IT crowd at school and know it. The group of girls are star athletes and have the other student body envious of their lives. However, a fellow student's body has been found at a nearby lake, leaving the school and these young women shaken. The victim actually leads Kay on a wild computer-coded scavenger hunt posthumously, keeping Kay and the group on their toes. All signs point to murder—but who's the culprit? If you enjoyed One of Us is Lying and are looking for a book that speaks freely about sexual fluidity, People Like Us is a good book to add to your TBR list. The mystery at hand is very easy to figure out—I knew immediately what was going to happen and the who, what, where, when, and why's. More than anything, the main reason for my negative review was the lack of characterization placed on the main characters. Kay's friends Brie, Maddy, Tai, etc., are all interchangeable. Nobody stands out and nobody is actually interesting enough to remember. While the story was unique and somewhat interesting, I didn't really care about any of the characters in any capacity. It just wasn't a fit for me, but if you are looking for a light mystery and are interested in comparing this to some blockbuster contemporary YA reads, then pick it up! I'd love to hear your thoughts.
2269583744	Many thanks to Penguin Young Readers for providing me with an ARC for the People Like Us Blog Tour. I appreciate this opportunity and all opinions expressed are my own.Wow, what a fantastic psychological thriller that is hands down a five star read! Dana Mele brings drama, mystery and revenge to the table in a fashion that will have you begging for more! Going into this book, I was a little hesitant because I thought this would be just another Pretty Little Liars. I was so wrong! This story had a lot of LGBTQ representation that I just LOVED! The main character(Kay) was bisexual. Kay's best friend Brie was a lesbian and there was plenty of other characters that were part of the LGBTQ community. As a pansexual woman, I was over the moon about this and I became deeply invested in the characters. I found myself flipping pages as fast as possible while rooting for Kay. Kay started off as another mean girl but as you read this story you start to see who Kay is underneath all the layers that she hides herself in. As the reader, you see a remarkable change in Kay that left me no choice but to love her.The plot of this story was fast paced but descriptive. Sometimes it was brutally descriptive. People Like Us shows you the vicious world of overprivileged young girls who are just plain bullies. I loved the characterization, the plot, and everything about this story. Dana Mele created one intense work of art that quickly rose to one of my top favorite books of all time! If you would love a fun teen drama with a chilling murder mystery, look no further because People Like Us is the book for you!!!
1915382192	Beneath the silvery moonlight, our skin gleams like bones. From that gorgeous first line, I was hooked. The blurb from the deal announcement just doesn't do it justice. PEOPLE LIKE US is a seductive psychological thriller with beautiful literary writing and an unreliable narrator. It takes place in an all-girls private school -- oh, and it's super queer. There might be more queer characters than non, AND I LOVED IT.This book is about cutthroat ambitious girls and secrets that won't stay in the past. It's about what we sacrifice for the sake of our own self-preservation. It's about the blurred line between friendship and more-than-friendship, and the pure agony of being trapped there. I'll have chills for a long time.
2820131653	The plot is just as good as any YA psychological-thriller’s especially because it seems set on punishing the mean girls. It makes you think hard about who the murderer is, their motives, their profile and it makes you go suspecting every other character in the story. The clues in the form of playful poetry are also very clever and make you think even more. It’s quite sinister that the suspect is most likely a student, a victim of these mean girls in the very same boarding school. I just find the whole thing lacking in emotion and it’s probably why I couldn’t connect much to the characters in the story. I guess being in a boarding school makes these girls such toughies showing little to no emotion at all. But for a YA novel under its genre, it’s still clearly worth a read, still entertaining and thought provoking and generally still very well-written. I think it would make up for a really good movie, a dark but important reminder of the repercussions of being mean.
2219782960	A bit disappointed with this one... it reminded me of Pretty Little Liars but I didnt like any of them. The story was clever there was just something about it that fell short for me. great narrator.
3071050600	Isolated private school settings and the privileged young people who reside there will never fail to intrigue me and People Like Us was no exception. This focuses on Kay Donovon and her posse of elite inner-circle friends. They are the popular, mean girls who run the social circle of their school. But all that was put in jeopardy when they absconded from a school dance for a drunken sea swim and found more than salt water when they get there.The body of a girl was there to greet them. She went to their school but she was not one of them. She was, however, the figure that unknowingly bound them with an increasingly large group of individuals they have affected with their words and their actions. Now, one dead girl later, someone wants them to pay for it.This begun in a terrifying fashion and continued in a thoroughly perplexing one, in the best way possible. I was fascinated to discern the vengeance plan that was set for this friendship group and if Kay could figure out who the culprit was, and how to stop them, before their lives were forever ruined. There was also a poignant back-story that added depth to the narrative and emotions I had not anticipated confronting.The characters of this novel, however, felt quite the opposite. Many existed on only one level and failed to feel authentic. They became more of a prop for the story-line and stood for only one thing, typically their 'sin' in the story-line.This, combined with the unbelievable nature of the events that unfolded, did not mar my enjoyment but also did not allow the story to penetrate further than becoming more than a fun read (for the most part) when an overall deeper message could have been ultimately delivered. I remained intrigued throughout and the suspense and action led me through this at break-neck speed so would still definitely recommend this to deliver the reader with a god time.
3068386682	Kay Donovan attends the prestigious Bates Academy all-girls boarding high school for two reasons: One, to try to get a college scholarship by playing well on their soccer team, and two, to get a fresh start from a tragic past. As of Halloween of her senior year, she’s doing well on both counts. But then a classmate is found dead in the lake on school property, triggering traumatic memories. Shortly after that, Kay receives an email from the dead girl, threatening to reveal unsavory secrets about Kay. It comes with a link to a website created just for Kay -- targeting her closest friends’ deepest darkest secrets, as well. Kay sees no choice but to play along … This is an unusual, inspired, complex, chilling, and ultimately heartbreaking book that I could not put down. I started it the evening before Thanksgiving, read it every chance I got over Thanksgiving day, and finished it the next morning because I just had to know what was going to happen next, and find out the answers to the mysteries: What happened to the dead girl (was it suicide or murder)? Why is Kay the target for that website? What happened in Kay’s past that’s driving her so hard in the present?Kay is not the most reliable narrator. There are a lot of things she’d rather not think about. Hints get dropped: Her best friend at home is dead. Her older brother is dead. She and her gang are the best at everything, but they are also mean girls, more feared than admired by their schoolmates. She has an unrequited crush on her current best friend -- but Brie has a serious girlfriend, and until recently Kay had a boyfriend. The details of all of these stories are revealed gradually, and always at just the right moment. (This is a book where the present-tense narration is absolutely warranted, and the things that happened in the past are narrated using past tense.) The suspense in this book is breathless and intense. The story is a combination of an action-driven psychological thriller and a character study of (a) how PTSD (and internalized homophobia) can negatively influence a person’s thinking and interpretations of other people's behavior, and (b) how poor choices can seem small at the time they're made, but then gather into a waterfall that traps a person in a swirling circle of pounding water they can't escape from. It’s very ambitious, and very well done. I am highly impressed that this is the author’s debut novel. I’m 4-starring it for a couple reasons. First, the story is a bit convoluted with a couple too many plot threads, and ended up feeling slightly murky to me once all the reveals are made. Second, there’s a bit of overkill: (view spoiler)[The trip to Nola’s house felt like a total waste of time to me (although the loss of the jacket and the photograph turning up at the end of the book was genius), and the whole Nola-is-Bianca thing was entirely unnecessary; I was willing to believe Nola was unbalanced enough without that added in (hide spoiler)]. (On the other hand, (view spoiler)[ Kay’s parents’ decision to essentially replace both her and her brother with a new baby for a genuine “fresh start” (hide spoiler)] rang disturbingly true to me; I’ve known people who think that way and very well might do exactly that. Ugh.) Also, while I realize there wasn’t really time to develop any actual connection or caring between Kay and her friends before the action starts, I would have liked something in the story to make me sorry about what happens when their secrets are revealed. They felt a little too easily disposable. Overall, this was a great read, and it's been haunting me for longer after I finished it than it took me to read it. The mood of the story is powerful; the underlying themes of loss, grief, and things that can’t be fixed are woven into the plot brilliantly. And it’s complicated and poignant enough that I may even reread it someday to see what more I get out of it a second time through. Also, I will definitely read anything else Dana Mele writes. While a number of my friends have reviewed this book, it was Nemo's review that made me think I absolutely had to read it -- so check it out!
2239514913	3.5 STARSSo I am a total sucker for mean girls, unlikable narrators, and boarding school mysteries, so I was hyped about this.I buddyread this with two other people and we had such a blast buddyreading this. If you buddyread anything, make it a mystery because coming up with theories was the most fun. If I hadn't buddyread this, I don't think I would have read it as quickly as I did. The book is fun and the pacing of events, whether it's revealing information or something happening, was great. It was enough to keep me turning the pages. However, it is really over the top at times and unbelievable so you do have to suspend some rationality to really enjoy it. I personally thought the reveal wasn't all that surprising, since everything had been thrown in our face about the murderer since the beginning. However, the events that happen inbetween were more shocking than the reveal, and made the story worth the read there. The story did lead me to believe it was other people at times, but my suspicion didn't stray much from who it was.I was fed up with some of the riddles in this, especially because the rules weren't consistent and they didn't make much sense. That was the big thing that really bugged me about the story and I had a hard time letting that go. There is more than one mystery in this, so there are layers you have to get through until you see the full picture and I always enjoy those. Some of the side reveals were better than the main one. I do think this followed a standard YA mystery format, and I wish that it could have ended a little better but overall I had a lot of fun reading this.
2321685948	Every school is its own little world, and one of the most enjoyable aspects of composing a school story is creating your personal version of that world, with its traditions, customs, even a private language. (In such famous schools as Eaton and Winchester they’re extremely elaborate.) So it was a pleasure to pick up on Dana Mele’s practices at Bates Academy, which like the Halloween plunge into the lake and the Dear Valentine presents were very nicely integrated into the plot. Some seemed to me rather unlikely. The Dear Valentine anonymous presents – a surefire divisive popularity contest – seemed like a terrible idea in a school full of teenage girls. I was most attracted by the narrator, Kay, the captain of the soccer team and a seemingly queen bee mean girl, though we discover she is from a modest background, desperately needs to win a scholarship to college, dresses fashionably by borrowing or even stealing other girls’ clothes, and has some really dark secrets that haunt her, which gradually unfold in the story. I would love to be able to create such a character. Superficially she resembles Jessica Knoll’s Ani, but I found Kay much better developed and more sympathetic – not despite but because of her manifold character flaws.Artistically, I had some problems. All the narration is Kay’s, which means that preserving the suspense requires hiding (though hinting) much of the dark past. For me this kind of narrator seems very artificial; we know she is teasing us. There are also too many minor characters – other schoolgirls who are in the story mostly to be victims, as well as a couple of boys from the town. But two other schoolgirls are fascinating characters: Brie and Nola. Brie is Kay’s BF and mostly the love of her life with whom she’s obsessed, though it seems like their relationship is constantly thrown off track, as Kay is also attracted to a townie boy named Spencer. I found the characters’ sexual fluidity one of the novel’s most enjoyable features, though Kay’s strongest attraction is clearly to Brie. Kay’s other principal confederate is Nola, a girl from an even wealthier family than Brie’s. I loved the episode when Kay goes to visit her extremely dysfunctional family in a mansion on the coast of Maine. But it was confusing to have so much of the story told through dialogue, much of which doesn’t advance the plot very much. The characters lack the sophistication and polish to be amusing (unlike some books set in major English Public Schools where the boys sound like minor characters in The Picture of Dorian Gray). I think the book might have been a third shorter as told entirely from Kay’s POV but in third person. But I can imagine it at the same length, but with chapters from Nola’s and Brie’s angle too. That would be my notion of a five-star.Though I found People Like Us flawed and the story dragged, I enjoyed it thoroughly. Kay’s contradictory mix of outer hardness and inward extreme vulnerability made her someone you want to love and protect. At times I wanted to scream at her, but I always cared about her. Definitely one of the better school stories I’ve read recently.
2706407509	3.5 starsTalk about an addictive book! A murder, an elite boarding school, secrets, drama, and a devious game—can we say favorite tropes??Engagement: 100%Pacing: ★★★★★Villain/Reveals: ★★ Character development: ★★★ 1/2People Like Us was such a surprisingly good find! Not the most complicated YA thriller ever, but it was a compelling read and filled to the brim with drama and interpersonal dynamics. I loved it—but the final reveal could have been stronger. Kay Donovan goes to Bates, and all-girls elite boarding school in New England. It's part Yale, part Hogwarts aesthetic, and its full of girls with way too many secrets. Oh, and a dead body. Kay's group of mean girl friends finds the dead body of Jessica Lane in the lake, and things go awry soon after that. The dead girl seems to be communicating with Kay via a time-coded website filled with nasty secrets and missives, and she's blackmailing Kay from beyond the grave. What's a mean girl to do, when her secret is worse than everyone else's?People Like Us was such a fascinating character study. Kay was extremely flawed, but I understood most of her choices—maybe that was weird, who knows. Loved the bisexual representation. Didn't love the final reveal and found it easy to guess, BUT there were several other characters who were plausibly the murderer, so it was done well. One of the best things about this story was the constantly fluctuating opinions of all of of the characters. No one was safe from suspicion, and it was every girl for herself.Definitely check this out if you're thriller fan. It's a fun ride!
2311367137	Okay. Here we go. Judging by the largely positive reviews for this book, this is clearly an unpopular opinion. And that's fine. Maybe someone with reading taste similar to mine will find this review more useful than wasting time reading the book. Or maybe you'll want to slap me for being overly-critical of a YA mystery. REGARDLESS, grab some popcorn and enjoy some awful, low-quality (at best) bitching below. But here's your warning, because I'm going to talk about some SERIOUS spoilers:It actually took me awhile to consider how I really felt about this book. Because at first, I thought enjoyed it. My knee-jerk reaction when closing the book was, "Well that was fun!" Because at times, it was a fun, mysterious journey. I enjoyed Kay and Nola sitting down in front of a computer to solve riddles and crack a case. I enjoyed the mysterious element of what all of her friends did to piss off a killer. And I definitely enjoyed the boarding school setting because I'm basic AF, and at least I can admit that. Unfortunately, that's where my list of likes ends.All the characters had the same damn personality traits. All of the girls jerks, and they were either bisexual, lesbian, and/or possibly bi-curious. And I'm HEEEEERE for some representation, folks, but NONE OF THEM HAD ANY DEFINING CHARACTER TRAITS AT ALL BECAUSE THEY WERE ALL THE SAME. Seriously, I found myself flipping back to previous pages and chapters because I was like, "wait, is TAI the one who she has a crush on, or is it Brie?" Her friends all blended together. Even the two guys in the story, Greg and Spencer read SoOoOoOo similar. I stopped trying to figure out the difference between the characters, because they were only put in the book to be written off within a chapter, anyways. The only somewhat redeeming quality of the cast was the fact that Kay was coping with the loss of her brother in a really dark way that made her an unreliable narrator at times. Which I really appreciated, because the way she was written to be dealing with loss was MUUUCH different than most YA protagonists. And loss is such a strange concept, I'm intrigued to read different viewpoints about how people cope. But if I'm being honest, the other awful characters were the number one drawback to this book. I couldn't enjoy the story because I couldn't keep this cringey cast straight. In the author's defense, I can imagine it's really hard to develop a large cast of characters in a one-off story. But damn, if you can't find a way to do it, don't do it. Or give them clear characteristics. I don't know. Also, I was not surprised by the ending and who the murderer was. It's not that I figured it out right away, because to the author's credit, for the first half of the book, I had no clue. I've read so many shitty YA thrillers, I 100% expected to figure this one out without intending to. And I did, but it took much longer than it normally does, so I give credit where credit is due--I was confused and on the edge of my seat for 75% of the book.Now... let's move onto the FINAL nail in the coffin (lol... puns). The one "REVEAL" that was the shittiest twist I've ever read..... (Seriously don't continue reading if you don't want to spoiled from this BS)NOLA WAS BIANCA, HER ESTRANGED SISTER THE WHOLE TIME!!!!?!?!?!Let me not-so-briefly tell you why this was dumb: It was passively admitted in one line by her father and added ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO THE PLOT OR NOLA'S MOTIVES. It only showed that she was, in fact, crazy. Which was....... Ohhhh... I don't know. Probably demonstrated when she orchestrated the death and downfall of her classmates but wtf ever, amirite? That could've been an A+++ plot twist, but instead, it was a throwaway line at the end of the book once we already saw Kay and Nola confront each other about the truth and why Nola basically tortured everyone. Only for Nola's dad to roll up and be like, "NoLa WaS BiAnCa ThE wHoLe TiMe." Bianca was mentioned in passing a few times throughout the book as a sister of Nola's, so it ONE HUNDRED PERCENT could've been set up to be the GIANT twist at the end when Kay and Nola are sparring after the truth comes out. But no. Just, "Nola is Bianca." Bottom line, I thought this was a 3.5 star book because it was fun and mysterious. And while it was fun and mysterious, the characters lacked any sort of depth or relatability. They were little cardboard characters moving around a twisty story that had the opportunity to be good, but just failed so miserably in the last few chapters. This was a huge disappointment. Probably 1.75/2-stars, if I'm being generous. But only because murder mysteries are almost always fun, regardless of the god-awful "twists" that inevitably happen.
2441616206	1,5/5Chicas como nosotras es un thriller juvenil muy mediocre que me ha decepcionado mucho. No aporta nada nuevo al género, es previsible, sin emoción y sin sorpresas. Con unos personajes ridículos y mal construidos y con una historia ya vista mil veces, mal escrita y mal traducida, es un libro que me ha hecho perder unas cuantas horas de mi vida. No lo recomiendo pero si os gusta mucho (solo si os gusta MUCHO) este tipo de libros, puede que os entretenga. En mi caso, no lo ha hecho y esta novela ya ha pasado al olvido.Reseña completa:-Wordpress: https://suenosentreletras.wordpress.c...-Blogger: http://addicionaloslibros.blogspot.co...
2277154873	I really enjoyed this! It kept me guessing throughout and it was really well written. I figured out who it was just before it was revealed which was awesome because I didn't have to spend ages to find out if I was right!Really enjoyed it and it looks like there will be a book two which is very exciting!Also! That last reveal had me doing this at my desk I got some funny looks hahahaha!
2283236624	My Opinion:I liked this book and found myself intrigued with the who done it part of the book. I had a feeling I knew who did it and wasn't surprised with the ending. I did enjoy this book. I have not read a YA/LGBT book before so that was new for me. That was about all that was new for me. Altho, I did like the writing style, I also had problems with it. Most of the time Kays thoughts and actions are chatioc at best. She is all over the place with the story of her brother, with her lies, and with just everything, that I could not get into this book as much as I would have liked to. I didn't feel invested in Kay and really her and her friends are bad people, so I didn't feel sorry for her either. She should have gotten more coming to her. I don't know it's a bully book gone terribly wrong. Kay and her friends find a dead body and that's where everything comes back to haunt Kay and her friends. Who did what and to whom is what this book is about. So we learn about this groups past mistakes and how mean they are to even each other. I did like the mystery and the setting. I felt those were very well set up and believable, but just everything in this book is woo is me, poor me, oh feel sorry for me and she is a bad guy. So how much can you feel sorry for her? AND...O. M. G. with the talk about coffee....I wanted to punch this character in the face, it's coffee, get over it...I can count at least 15 times I had to hear about coffee, coffee, coffee, coffee...See how annoying that is after a while. But, even with all that, the writing was good and I did like that it was a boarding school book and that Kay grows up a bit in the book. All the pieces lined up nicely in the end. I would recommend this book to those of you who like things like Mean Girls or Heathers for those of you who are older. I give this book 3.5 of 5 stars!
2440088151	I'm not a big fan of murder mysteries but I liked this one! Lots of Pretty Little Liars vibes! I figured out the killer about 3/4 of the way through. The conclusion really blew me away though--beautifully written and LGBTQ+ rep!
2286031641	i don't even know where to start with this book. i spent the first 40 pages thinking surely i must've missed something, and this book was actually a sequel. the amount of setting description and character development is microscopic, and it doesn't really improve as the book goes on. i love the overall idea and concept of a boarding school murder and a dead girl's revenge, but it was executed so poorly. so many things were hinted at throughout the book, and then just never explained. disappointed to say the least.
2282023582	For in that sleep of death what dreams may comeWhen we have shuffled off this mortal coil,Must give us pause.— Hamlet (Shakespeare) Tale Out Loud | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
1948195869	PEOPLE LIKE US is one of those rare mystery-thrillers that is not only gripping and unputdownable, it's also beautifully written. I had a hard time doing anything else after I picked up this book, and while I wanted to keep stopping to admire Mele's gorgeous turns of phrase, I couldn't because I absolutely HAD to know what happened next.These characters are dark and twisty and extraordinarily human, and the setting is spot-on perfect. As a reader who went to an all-girls boarding school, I'm usually a bit skeptical of books set in places like my high school, but Mele nailed it. Every detail is just right. I know I'll be thinking about this one for a long time to come.
2296655596	Moves fast, with constantly new names to memorize and facts to note, but a breathtaking mystery that will keep you on the edge of your seat.I would've gone crazy if I'd gone to a school like that.
3159766783	How dreary to be somebody. Not bad. I got into it almost immediately but only started getting interested after I learned who was who (there are soooo many names to remember!). It's overall an entertaining and dark enough YA thriller, and the writing is very simple yet intense. Oh, and I also loved it that almost every girl in this book is bi or gay and it was such a natural thing. I mean, I'm all for it, but I don't usually brag about diversity/representation in books, especially if they don't add anything to the story aside from their woke agenda. The rep in this book though, was well done and it just fit into the story without making it seem a big deal. In short, the girls in this book have a personality that isn't solely defined by their sexuality, and I adore it. I'm definitely gonna read another book by this author, especially if it's this book's sequel.
2310337988	Mean girl Kay and her boarding school crew find a dead classmate and the police have questions. Next she’s online blackmail message threaten to divulge her deepest secrets if she doesn’t spill secrets about her posse. With the help of Nola, an outcast classmate with a skill for hacking, Kay is determined to solve the mystery, before she’s arrested for murder.PEOPLE LIKE US are the privileged, popular girls at Bates Academy, the kind of girls who aren’t usually suspects in murder. But scholarship student Kay isn’t quite like the truly privileged girls with expensive clothes and lifestyles. She realizes she’s treated others terribly over the past three years, and making amends might be a little late. At some point I questioned the reliability of Kay’s narration. Was she truly innocent or more devious than she let on.Who doesn’t love a good boarding school book? Throw in murder, revenge, some LBGT romance and Dana Mele’s debut novel is a hit. I was hooked from the beginning, invested in Kay, and unsure of the culprit.PEOPLE LIKE US is a story I’ll reread and I recommend it to YA mystery and thriller aficionados.
2359359147	Super entertaining the whole way through... the pacing was fantastic. Had a few eye roll moments and didn't *really* love the ending, but was thoroughly creeped out and found the relationships to be interesting. Was hoping for more of a group friendship kind of mystery, like Pretty Little Liars, but the group kind of scatters early on and the story focuses more on 1:1 relationships. Still very entertaining.
3733510968	This book did give me Pretty Little Liars vibes, (I've watched the TV show not read the books), but I have to say People Like Us was quite well done. I do say though that none of the characters apart from Greg are likeable, and most of the characters are undoubtedly morally grey but it was a still a good read nonetheless.
2227362357	If you like queer, messy, boarding school murder mysteries... Read this book. You'll love it.
1942458883	I'm just gonna say it -- Dana Mele is destined to be the Gillian Flynn of YA. I keep seeing this book compared to MEAN GIRLS and THIRTEEN REASONS WHY, and while those comps make sense, I personally keep coming back to GONE GIRL and SHARP OBJECTS. Without getting too spoiler-y, I'll tell you that PEOPLE LIKE US features a fantastic little teenage psychopath. I found myself rooting for said psychopath the same way that I found myself weirdly rooting for Amy while reading GONE GIRL, even when I had no idea who he/she (no pronoun spoilers!) was. But this twisted treasure is far from an Amy knock-off. He/she is a positively unique, surprisingly relatable, and multi-layered beast who I could read about all day. And in the same vein as SHARP OBJECTS, PEOPLE LIKE US is narrated by a girl with a troubled past who seems like she's doing her best to appear well-adjusted and make it through the day to day. But then...*squeeeees with glee*...the unraveling begins. And it is EPIC.Don't miss this one. It will suck you in and rewire your heart-brain.
2273565833	I FLEW through this and loved it! Full review to come.
2075722938	Actual rating: still 4.5, but rounding my star rating up to 5 because I just love this book so much. First line: "Beneath the silvery moonlight, our skin gleams like bones." Reread April 2018: Ever since I read this book as an ARC last year, I've been itching to get my hands on it for a reread. Just like last time, I flew through it and found it hard to put it down. This story definitely isn't for everyone, and I can see readers finding the characters much too unlikable to really fall in love with the story, but that was never the case for me.Dana Mele needs to announce another book soon because I'm desperate for more after this stunning debut.-----I loved this so much more than I expected! For the first few chapters I didn't have any strong feelings. As I kept reading though, I just became increasingly obsessed with this book and ended up flying through it in a matter of sittings. Every single character is multidimensional and is never simply good or bad. That's a big thing I noticed early on. Everyone had done some really shitty things but they weren't all terrible people. Kay, the main character, is a perfect example of that. She has some serious flaws and has hurt people, but she's doing her best to learn and grow and be a better person. Another unexpected, but delightful surprise was how gay this book was! It's set at an all-girls boarding school, but I didn't really think anything of it until I realized several characters were either gay or bisexual, including the main character. Characters' sexuality isn't discussed, it just is, and it's fantastic!I'm realizing how early I read it but I'm so happy I did because now I can get everyone else excited for it when it comes out!
3414245924	(2.5/5)This was... meh. I honestly didn't enjoy it that much and the mystery wasn't that great either. A lot of my annoyance has to do with how annoying seemingly all the characters were (falling really in line with the whole 'catty, rich, boarding school teenagers' trope/stereotype). The beginning of the book is really promising, but it quickly takes a nosedive into interpersonal drama and bullying, which is really what the whole revenge and murder mystery is based on. It's a shame that most of the book is boring and pointless, because things really pick up and get exciting in the last fifth or so. (view spoiler)[I had suspected Brie and now kind of wish it had been her who had done all of it because Kay constantly sucking up to her was really irritating, and having the 'nice girl' who was 'one of them' be the murderer all along would have been really interesting, especially considering the fact that Nola's explanation felt really forced and sudden. (hide spoiler)]So yeah, not that great.
2354036724	** spoiler alert ** I felt like it was predictable. I felt like it was obvious for me and I got bored. I don’t know I wasn’t a big fan!
2357030154	I have finished yet another book about mean school girls. I have an affinity for such stories (mean teens) and I'm not sure why. When I was in high school, I was neither a bully or victim. I was barely there mentally. If I had to describe myself, I would say I was a nonconformist freak who was interested in rock musicians and the music they played, authors and the books they wrote and designers and the clothes they made. I aspired to dress not unlike Stephen Tyler. I wanted to play guitar like Jimmy Page (dream on, dreamer) and I wanted to be the next Ayn Rand. I had my own little clique of friends; we were too cool for school. We did not date high school boys. We spent every cent we had on going to concerts and chasing bad boy rockers and an inordinate amount of time planning our style/wardrobes. In my off hours and in school, I spent every spare second reading. I thought I knew just about everything. I knew NOTHING. But, I didn't have to be mean to anyone to feel superior. I felt superior just by being. That my parents didn't laugh in my face is a testament to their patience and self-control. I was so very, very obnoxious in my own special way by my certainty in my own fabulousness. I was a sitting duck to have my clock cleaned. And cleaned it was, quite thoroughly, at 20. Adversity does build character and my own theory is that the more tears you shed at a young age, the more enlightenment you gain. And herein may lie the answer on why one of my guilty pleasures is mean teens getting their comeuppance. As well they should. As an adult nonconformist, I still look for the essence of cool. The difference is that my perception of what that is has vastly changed. I still have confidence but it does not stem from the idea that I am fabulous, it comes from the long held conviction that my own opinion of myself is the only one that counts.
2283186353	1st reread updateI just HAD to bump my reading up to five stars. The audiobook performance is phenomenal and my main complaint the first time around was that I guessed the killer in the first twenty pages, but honestly? That doesn't even matter. This book fucking rocks. It has everything I love in a book: wlw, hating cops, murder and intrigue. It has the range, darling.People Like Us is what Pretty Little Liars wishes it was.-- ”Maybe my brain is broken, or my heart is rotten. I want to be a good person who only says and does good things and loves good people, but I don’t and I’m not.” Have you, dear reader, seen the wildly popular cult classic 1988 film Heathers?? Did you maybe, just maybe, think it was missing something?? Maybe something, a little, I don’t know,,,, gay?? We’ve all been there, and if you’re in that same boat I would love to invite you to come read People Like Us. It’s the sapphic Heathers/Mean Girls mashup that we’ve all been waiting for. People Like Us reminds me a lot of my all-time favorite thriller, Prep School Confidential, and not in a bad way. The two go hand in hand when it comes to convoluted plots and interesting characters, plus I absolutely ADORE boarding school mysteries. It’s my guilty-pleasure genre, and the fact that this one has sapphic girls in it???? dude I was sold before I even read the blurb.✲ The ConceptHonestly, the idea of “revenge blog that forces you to blackmail others before the clock runs out” seems like an idea that would be overused in YA lit, but it’s really… not? Or at least from what I’ve read. The concept was unique and not really like anything I’ve read before, and I think a lot of readers will find this novel refreshing.✲The WritingThough it wasn’t technically the most beautiful writing I’ve ever read, and sometimes I got lost (especially in the transitions between flashbacks and present time – though that could partly be due to the format of the eARC), for a large majority of the time the writing was easy to follow and kept me intrigued. In fact, the easy-flowing writing style is probably why I stuck around for the last half of the novel, and boy am I glad I did. ✲The CharactersI AM SO SAD THAT MY SHIPs DIDN’T BECOME CANON. NEITHER OF THEM. I’m not going to say who the ships were because, like, spoilers, but the ending was honestly so satisfying and fit how the story was progressing so well that I’m not even mad about it. People Like Us is a perfect example of how to write a complicated, flawed protagonist. Kay was awesome, and all the dynamics and relationships between her and the people around her were so convoluted and amazing. She was by no means perfect – and at times I even wanted to yell at her, but she had a good heart and wonderfully toed the line between hero and anti-hero. Brie was another favorite of mine, along with Nola. This book is chuck full of strong women and I am HERE for it. Like Prep School Confidential, People Like Us features characters that remind me a lot of the Gallagher Girls series, but for an older crowd. However, besides our main trio and Spencer, Kay’s ex, the other characters of the book just all blended together in my head?? I think that a lot of them should’ve been more three-dimensional, even the ones that were only present in the first bit of the book. There’s nothing worse than a plethora of background characters that all blend together in your head, and, unfortunately, this book fell into that pattern. ✲The Plot Now this is where my opinion gets kinda messy. I was absolutely and completely lethargic for the first fifty percent of this book. I could not physically or mentally bring myself to care about the story. I thought that the plot moved too fast (a rare complaint?), and I thought that the list would be build-up for something bigger but it kind of,, wasn’t?? the whole plot revolved around the website, for the entire book. I was hoping for something more. While I liked it better when things slowed down in the second half, the first half made me want to DNF. To be honest, I probably would’ve if the writing hadn’t been so easy to follow. But don’t get me wrong, the second half of the novel (or, maybe, the last third of it) made up for the first part. Once the story really got into the meat of the mystery, I became engrossed and couldn’t put the book down.Also, I still feel so cool that I was able to guess the murderer. I never ever ever guess those kinds of things right and I guess this is what it feels like to be one of the cool kids. God bless. To conclude, while it does have its flaws, People Like Us is a promising debut novel full of interesting characters, an interesting and well-thought-out concept, and easy to follow writing. I look forward to reading more by Dana Mele. --p.s. holy crap, that book trailer?? please give me a people like us movie. It’s what we deserve.
2459835955	I really enjoyed this book. I read it in like one sitting. It was fast paced, (somewhat) twisty, and I just could not put it down.It also definitely wasn't my genre. This book was hella enjoyable, but... personally, I didn't find it wasn't anything more than that. And I truly think that this was purely a personal issue. I just... couldn't connect.So I'm having a bit of a hard time rating this one. I'm really torn between 4 stars and 3.5. I feel like I could easily justify either rating, but since I DO feel that it was largely because it's not my genre, and it WAS really enjoyable, I'm going to leave it at four for now.All complaints aside though, I really did enjoy this book quite a bit! It was exciting and action packed and kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time! Also all the characters were great! Not super remarkable (or else I just have no memory... this is just as likely tbh), but well developed and fun to read about.The plot was really good too! I can't really say much about it without spoilers, and also I suck at giving plot descriptions, so just go read the back if you want to know what the hell it's actually about. However, actual DESCRIPTIONS aside, I would like to talk about the plot.It was REALLY good. While the characters are great, this is very much a plot driven book. And the plot shines. It's so clearly well thought out, and it's well paced and exciting and (fairly) twisty!I really think the plot is where this book is strongest, so if that's your thing, I think you will love this book. I, however, prefer my books more characters driven. (And also I prefer my books to not be thrillers. So there's that.)Okay, but I DID figure out who the murderer was. I spent probably the first two thirds of this book (look at me making up percentages because I actually have no clue!) with NO IDEA who the murderer was. But somewhere around the two thirds point (again I'm actually totally guessing on this percentage, lol.) I started to get suspicious, and by the time we actually find out... Yeah I was pretty certain already.Still, the plot was NEVER boring, even after I'd figured the murderer out, and there was still some TWISTS that left me SHOOK. Overall? This wasn't entirely my style, but it was hella fun, and I one hundred percent recommend it!
2219247049	so i kinda feel like i hyped up this book too much. it has so many things i look for in books: boarding schools, mystery, girls girls girls, gay girls!, good reviews from friends, but this fell sort of flat when i actually read it.i don’t think i ever fully realized how exhausting it can be to read people being mean and bitchy to each other, all the time. it’s SO tiring. it’s more like mean girls than gossip girl (which is the one show about rich bitchy people i can stand - i think it’s because the characters learn to be better, rather then just go on being haughty all the time.)i swear someone was annoyed at someone else in EVERY chapter. i felt frustrated bc the characters were frustrated and it was just !!!! tiring. im over it! that being said, the mystery was very cleverly done - every “recipe” for disaster (hehe, joke) was original and unlike anything ive ever read. so it has that going for it.everything else is weak. the romances: ?? weird?? the reader never understands why kay is into the people she is. we are told some background information on both of them, but every flattering fact is backed up with kay also critiquing them. like, she wasn’t wrong about what she pointed out - that the girl she liked was too defensive sometimes, etc. so the reader dislikes that person bc they notice the thing kay pointed out, and then we never end up rooting for them anyway.the writing: SO weak. oh my god. there’s a point where the killer says “killing is like, yikes.” And I think that sums up everything I don’t need to say about the writing.TL;DR: good concept, okay execution, won’t reread again.
2431872617	1,5*Creo que el enorme problema de este libro ha sido su traducción, su pésima traducción para mi gusto. No sé cómo será en el original pero yo no he conseguido conectar con la historia ni los personajes porque la narración y lo diálogos me sacaban todo el rato de la novel. Además de ello, he adivinado el culpable a mitad del libro, no ha sido ninguna sorpresa. Esperaba mucho más de esta historia y me da rabia pensar que podría haber sido mucho mejor con una buena traducción.
1947168096	Atmospheric, thrilling, queer story with lots of twists and turns. This lovely YA thriller will take you on a twisty ride guaranteed to leave you breathless. You may not love everything these girls do–you don't have to–that's the beauty of this story. Five stars!!!
2457542813	proooobably 3.5ish??
2294741966	This was a very dark, thrilling and twisty book that surprised me till the very end!
2383991179	(originally reviewed at thelibraryladies.com ) Oh ho ho what’s this? It’s another ‘horrible kids being horrible at boarding school’ book!! My freaking weakness of a book type (or one of many). “People Like Us” by Dana Mele was one of those books that I just randomly stumbled upon on GoodReads thanks to that site’s propensity to feature books on the side of your feed that they are trying to promote. Most of the time I ignore these ads, but on occasion I’m drawn in because of tantalizing covers or large words promising great things, usually of thriller kind. Knowing full well that I was pretty much taking a gamble, I requested it. When it opened with a bunch of boarding school popular girls finding a body, I was immediately drawn in. Because who doesn’t love a bit of salacious carnage to kick off a book? But as the book kept going, it became quite clear that it was going to be something we’ve seen before without pushing many boundaries inside of the genre.The cast of characters is a pretty standard cast list for a YA thriller/mystery. Our protagonist is Kay, a girl who came to the prep school Bates Private School with two main motivations: to pursue a soccer scholarship for college, and to run away from a trauma from her past. She has a number of secrets she keeps from her other friends in their popular crowd, just as they have secrets from each other as they rule the school and sometimes torment other students. Unfortunately, there was definitely too much of her hinging on on this tragic and secret past of hers, and while it was slowly and carefully unfolded I never really found a moment of connection to Kay. While most of her relationships with her friends are pretty one dimensional, there are a couple exceptions to this: she is attracted to and perhaps in love with her best friend Brie, but their romance has never come to fruition because the timing has always been wrong (or Kay has been misbehaving in some kind of way). And along with Brie there is Nola, a classmate who has always been seen as weird, but may be Kay’s only hope in solving who is harassing her and targeting her friends. I really liked that Dana Mele treats Kay’s sexuality as just a fact of the story, and that all of these characters were fairly fluid in their sexual identities. But beyond that, none of them were particularly noteworthy or interesting. As Kay’s friends face their various consequences to being jerks, I never felt particularly bad for them, nor did I really feel a sweet satisfaction outside of a general ‘ha ha awful popular kids get what’s coming to them’ feeling. They weren’t likable, but they weren’t interesting enough to be fun to hate either. Too many of them were placed to either be non lethal body counts, or to make the reader wonder if they are the one who set it all up in the first place.The mystery too was a little lackluster for me. There were plenty of red herrings the muddle the waters effectively, be it misdirection about the mystery at the forefront or the mystery of Kay’s past. But ultimately, I did kind of brush across the solution well before the solution was revealed, even if I didn’t let it stick in my mind. And by the time we did get to the solution, I didn’t feel like we’d come to a big revelation. It just kind of happened, and I felt neither positive nor negative about how it all sussed out in the end. There was one final twist that did shock me, though, which was a nice surprise given that I thought that I had everything totally figured out within that storyline. It’s the little surprises that felt rewarding in this book, but when you don’t find yourself as a ready very invested in the majority of the mystery, or the consequences that it is going to dole out of the characters.So what made it so readable, perhaps you are wondering? Well honestly, I am always going to be a sucker for the boarding school brats being rotten to each other trope, along with the themes of the misbehaving idle rich getting what they so richly deserve. If you want a standard book within this trope and genre, “People Like Us” is going to fulfill that want and need because it is so by the book (as it were). It almost acted as a comfort read for me, in that I didn’t have to think too deeply about it and that I knew that bad people were going to have bad things happen to them. Sometimes all we want is a book that hits all the things that we want and to be able to just enjoy it for what it is, and I do have to admit that I got that from “People Like Us” when all was said and done. If you are looking for a YA thriller mystery that reinvents the wheel, “People Like Us” probably isn’t going to be the read for you. But if you want that familiar comfort of a genre you’ve come to really enjoy without rocking the boat, it could be a good bet.
5084632255	I admittedly knew true culprit before the book got there. Even though I started piecing it together early on, I still enjoyed the book. I thought it had an interesting plot for sure. I agree with the description of a mix between Gossip Girl & Pretty Little Liars- it’s exactly that!🌀SynopsisOn the night of their fall dance Kay and her friends find a girl dead in the lake. The investigation begins and as it turns out, there are some secrets within the group that also start surface.Kay receives an email with tasks she needs to accomplish or all of her secrets will come out. Some of her friends are forced to leave school and another turns up dead.With two bodies, the investigation gets more intense and there are only 3 good suspects. One of them is Kay! She has to get to the bottom of the website to figure out who killed the girls. Kay’s determined to figure it out but it may just cost her everything.
2412432777	this was GOOOOOOD
2422942490	In my opinion, YA thrillers are a difficult genre to master. Whether writing them or reading them, they have to be the right mix of ordinary, heroic, and suspicious characters, violence without being too graphic, and a scenario/setting that is relatable and hits close to home. People Like Us is actually one of the best YA thrillers I have read. While it had its ups and downs, I was engaged from the very beginning and stayed invested until the end without being bored, confused, or frustrated.Kay Donovan's home life involves grief over her dead brother and parents who don't have a lot of money. However at school, she is best friends with the richest girls and is mean to everyone else. Then a murder happens at school and Kay is a prime suspect. Thrust into the middle of the investigation, matters take a turn for the worse when an email appears in her inbox, forcing Kay to blackmail her friends. As even her own past is threatened to be exposed, Kay has to choose between new friendships and old in order to decide who to trust.
2493396630	There is something about prep schools fiction that always appeals to us. Maybe it is that we have the possibility to have a glimpse of the lives of the rich and beautiful and discover at depth they are just Human too.A few pages into Bates you discover the Gods are rotten to the core. Not that I am naive, but I like to trust people around me. In this novel friendship/loyalty does not exist and truth is something you can make Up in order to have everything you've wished for. A group of spoilt brats have the time of their lives being mean to almost everybody and being untouchable but as they found body of one of their fellow students they become the target and start falling one by one. But Kay Donovan is a survivor and she is able to do whatever it takes.It's a little predictable, half through the book you already know who the culprit is bit it still keeps you interested. It is when it tries to depict this generation of teenagers that I think it fails. A good beach read.
2503736122	Rating: 3.5 StarsBates should definitely NOT feature any of these young women in their pamphlets, because they are all pretty twisted. I enjoyed seeing the revenge plot unfold, and thought Mele guided us on a nice, twisty journey to finding the killer and the truth behind why these events unfolded. We met lots of damaged and really flawed characters. I do wish I got to know some of them better, and that they had been utilized more in the book. However, I thought the author did a great job tangling multiple mysteries, and I was throughly entertained. BLOG | INSTAGRAM |TWITTER | BLOGLOVIN | FRIEND ME ON GOODREADS
1947764603	This was a fun, dark, twisty thriller, suffused with atmosphere, about a murder, and the evil-goings-on at a prep school where no one is quite who they seem. The murder itself almost seems allegorical, as the novel seems to have greater ambitions--exposing how we're all flawed, or reflect each other's flaws, when we're herded into social stratums, and it becomes survival of the fittest. Eventually, Darwinism has its day, and everyone will do whatever they can to rise to the top and protect themselves. Youth is never as innocent as it seems, and even adolescent crushes, the swan song of so many John Hughes pslams, can be manipulated and teased.Dana Mele is a smart, talented writer who always keeps you guessing.
2395151296	Dana writes beautifully and her characters are so morally grey in the best way possible, they make you hate to love them - and that's so hard to achieve. I loved every single main character, from the protagonist Kay to her ex Spencer, to Greg to Nola. I loved them so much. With stories, If I only love the writer's plot in a singular novel, I often don't return to their work, with Dana, I adored her writing, and so I can't wait to read whatever else she brings out. This is a confident 5 stars from me.
2344258144	Kay Donavan has skeletons in her closet. When her brother is murdered she is sent away to a boarding school...while there a fellow student is found dead in the lake. Suicide or murder? Days after the body is found Kay starts receiving emails that force her to blackmail her friends one by one. Tell their secrets for HER own secret to remain hidden. This story delves into finding out what happened to the dead girl and at the end we find out what Kay is hiding. Only the truth will set you free.
2238358629	This is your typical YA mystery novel. The characters didn't have much substance or development and while People Like Us delivered on the mystery part, the clues leading up to the reveal was not suspenseful or thrilling.
2316603123	3.5 It's late right now, so I'll write a full review tomorrow, but I enjoyed this book. The beginning wasn't as enjoyable as I thought it would be and I had several issues with it at first, but as I read I started liking it more. I had solved the main mystery halfway through, but there were other plot twists I didn't see coming and that was fun.
4034225223	sapphic boarding school mean girls r hot
2309607867	no full review to come. this was meh at best.
2569728882	People Like Us is one of those books that stays on your mind long after you have finished it. It is a book on par with Megan Abbott and Abigail Haas. It is often described as Mean Girls but queer and that is a really accurate description. It takes place in a boarding school after a murder has taken place, and Kay is one of the suspects, which is only made worse when she receives an email from the victim, which sends her on a revenge hunt on behalf of the victim. People Like Us is a psychological thriller and a very character driven book. It has such fantastic character dynamics, a lot of which are twisted and toxic. It is a book where everyone has secrets and everyone is doing their best to protect them. People Like Us was full of twists and turns, you didn't know where to look or who to trust, and I really love books that really do surprise you. People Like Us is about bullying, impact vs intention, and the consequences these actions have on the people involved. So yeah, People Like Us is a book that I would highly recommend. It has murder & mystery, it is full of sapphic girls, and it is set in a boarding school.
