272695060	I imagine that The Book Of Blood And Shadow will impress most of my friends, it just so happens that this is one of those books that appears on occasion which is well-constructed, well-written, clever and absolutely nothing that I want to read. I've seen this before and will surely see it again in the future, thankfully I'm getting better at spotting them early on - the only reason I finished this book was because it was provided by UK book tours for review purposes.The story is about Nora who tries to solve the mystery around her friend's death and prove her boyfriend's innocence by travelling to Prague and following the clues from centuries-old manuscripts that lead her into a world of secrets, lies and conspiracies. It's just a shame that, for me, this was nowhere near as exciting as it sounds.Though the books are nothing alike, the reading experience I had with The Book Of Blood And Shadow was almost identical to the ones I had with The Book Thief and Feed. This could be a good indicator of whether or not you should read this book. If you liked those two I just mentioned - and I know most people did - then you may have more patience with a novel like The Book Of Blood And Shadow. It is equally long-winded and spends a lot of time with the characters and the world before any of the main plot gets going.Did you enjoy those discussions about politics and occasionally medicine found in Feed? Did you like the numerous flashbacks and stories throughout The Book Thief? Or did you grow tired of them like me? You see, Mira Grant, Markus Zusak and Robin Wasserman are all great writers in the very technical sense but I think they lose something from the story in being so... well, that's just how I see it. It's easy to be drawn in by them at first because you immediately recognise that they are talented at writing, the characters are always well-developed from the start. I like the characters, I like the writing, and I wait and wait for the story to get interesting but I'm often bored.If you're okay with long sentences, a little too much of the stuff that we don't really care about like translations - or maybe that's also just me? - and the kind of story that doesn't hit you like WOWSHAZAM but creeps in slowly and steadily until you realise "oh yeah, so something seems to be going on now..." then this is your kind of book. Sorry, I'm not selling it too well, am I? I probably shouldn't be too negative as I am confident many of my friends on goodreads will love this kind of story. It's just way too slow and hard-going for me.
257483938	The claims of this being like a YA Da Vinci Code are not false; mysterious documents, coded messages, religion, murder - it easily reminded me of this well loved book by Dan Brown which is a favorite of mine. The Book of Blood and Shadow is cryptic and dangerous, with a phenomenal writing style - I loved every single minute of this novel!It all starts with the Book. The Voynich manuscript to be exact. This book is, in fact, real, and deemed as the most mysterious book on earth that no one has of yet been able to decipher. This is their assignment. However, Nora is, instead and to her dismay, given 400 year old letters to translate which she doesn't believe is as important, or nearly as interesting as the manuscript. This is where her story begins. Some have mentioned how it took them a while to get into this book due to the slow pace at the start. I can easily see this being the case, but I was completely captivated from its very first sentence: "I should probably start with the blood." From then, I hung on to every word, to every page, to every chapter until I swallowed it whole. Where some may find it slow, I found it increasingly cryptic. It was clearly the beginning of something major. Something very mysterious, and full of peril. There are books that don't need to start with a bang, but rather a thud. This is one of them.However, if you do have trouble getting into it, page 100 is where you can find the bang, and from then on it's a fast forward until the end. Believe me, you won't even know what hit you. You'll think the story is going one way, only to find yourself completely baffled by the sudden, unexpected turn of events. I could never foresee what was going to happen next, and, for this, I am undoubtedly impressed. Some may find that you have to suspend disbelief in the final chapters, but when it comes to faith and extremely old circumstances, I was definitely fine with it. The writing: splendid! The narration is extremely intelligent. I was blown away by this girl's way of thinking. Nora's perceptions, analysis, her reflective chain of thought, it was all so smart and put together. I felt connected to her words in a way I've rarely felt before. She took me in her head and made me see who she really was, how SHE saw the world around her. Positively outstanding!The Book of Blood and Shadow is not your typical YA novel. It's raw and it breaks rules, with an intense insanity that does not stop until you turn that last page. To say it simply: It's nothing short of brilliant!--For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads
279727416	After a promising start, The Book of Blood and Shadow turned out to be my biggest disappointment in 2012. I never expected to have to struggle to finish this book. In fact, when I ordered a copy, I was pretty certain it would find a place among my favorites, but the more I read, the more disappointed I became. I’ll start with the good…Characters and relationships are Wasserman’s strong point. I loved getting to know Nora, Chris, Max and Adriane in the first part of the book, loved finding out how their friendship developed, adored reading about Max and Nora and those first months of their relationship. It was all incredibly convincing, the slow falling in love, the realization of differences between a best friend and a boyfriend, Nora’s constant questioning of herself and her place in the group, and that moment when she needed to choose whose number to dial in time of trouble. There were so many layers and complications between these four people, and all of them came from great understanding and experience.It was easy for me to connect with Nora. She squealed when she got a Latin dictionary for her eleventh birthday; when she was sad or lost, she consoled herself with endless declinations and conjugations… in short, she was a linguist at heart, which made her all the more dear to mine. In addition, both our lives were divided into two periods by a huge event and I was able to recognize how, through Nora’s situation with her brother, Wasserman offered her astute understanding and portrayal of a family devastated by grief. The premise itself is where it all went wrong. It was just too farfetched – the idea that two college boys and one high school girl could discover something a very determined secret society and hundreds of scholars couldn’t, that the said society was willing to kill for the knowledge, but not research all available texts, Elizabeth’s letters included. The codes were too easy to decipher, the riddles were something a child could solve, everything was just a Google search away and finding the pieces of this precious, mysterious machine proved to be almost effortless. I’m not sure if Wasserman couldn’t do better or if she simply dumbed it down for her targeted young adult audience, but either way, I felt almost insulted by the simplicity of it all. If I were a Czech citizen, I would be unbelievably angry about the way Wasserman described Prague. What she wrote may very well be true about some god forsaken village in the middle of nowhere, where the communist mindset is indeed still very much alive and hygiene is not high on the list of priorities, but Prague is a beautiful city that combines centuries old culture and modern ways, a city that has moved forward considerably in the last twenty years, and her version of it is simply unfair, or at least outdated. If that’s how she sees Prague, I don’t even dare imagine how she would describe Zagreb, or heaven forbid, Sarajevo. Her words were both inaccurate and rude. The writing suited me, she has a great feeling for rhythm and punctuation and a talent for using short sentences to emphasize her very dry sense of humor. I do hope that Robin Wasserman’s next project will be a nice contemporary YA (or better yet, New Adult), about growing up, falling in love and finding your place instead of another mystery-adventure-The-Da-Vinci-Code-wannabe novel that simply won’t work, just like this one didn’t. Characters and relationships is where her strengths lie, and everyone should just stick to what they do best.Also posted at The Nocturnal Library
314283726	The half of it set in Prague, where all the ostensible action takes place, kinda sucks. The protagonist loses her positive personality traits and the writing becomes far less clever and witty. The second quarter keeps interest alive by stalling/hinting at what’s to come and the protagonist isn’t on her way to irritating the ish out of me yet. I think what this book shows is that Wasserman can write with great wit about family, friendship, and loss – but not particularly well about romance, intrigue, religion, or fully realized characters. I also cut the author some slack because of her barbs about pop culture – so knowing in the first part, while later they become gratuitous and kind of rote.I'm religious, yet the constant religion talk bored me. The whole thing feels silly and inconsequential – it’s technically possible parody’s the point, but either way as a whole the reading isn’t that enjoyable. The riddles are meh – in The Da Vinci Code (It is entertaining, okay?) they felt right as you breathlessly followed along. I don’t like Adriane, and our heroine’s sappy lovesickness is annoying, and she becomes a lame, angry, bitter, unsympathetic shrew. The second half of the book is largely contrived, unengaging stupidity with an especially anticlimactic, inorganic ending. *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* Favorite Quotes:Under the best of circumstances, middle school is a sixth-circle-of-hell situation, sandwiched somewhere between flaming tombs and flesh-eating harpies.A right and wrong side of the tracks, although in this case, the tracks are a Walmart.It would call for substantially more than luck to thrust me into one of those narratives where plain-Jane new girl catches the eye of inexplicably single Prince Charming, because somehow the new school has revealed her wild, irresistible beauty, of which she was never before aware.A Shakespearean tragedy or at least—if you threw in a lonely stable boy or trustworthy prison guard—a trashy romance novel.It helped to cultivate a linguistic superiority complex. Or maybe the language without a people just appealed to the girl without a home.Every time you invite me over here, you give me your implied consent to bore you with the details of my mundane little life.They somehow still didn’t understand what it meant to never have enough, and I was content leaving them in the dark, because I had no need for their understanding and no use for the pity that would accompany it.“Look, I’m not the one always whining about not having a boyfriend,” she said.“No, you’re the one always whining about me not having a boyfriend.”reason is the last and best weapon of the powerless man. He taught me well the many uses of emotion, the blade that can so easily be turned against its wielder.I have discovered what fills the vacuum left by love. It is called necessity, and it will not be denied. “You know, if this were a movie,” Chris said, “we’d probably decide to ditch those ungrateful fools and start making out.”
3016727001	Want to see more bookish things from me? Check out my YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...Nora, her bestfriend Chris and boyfriend Max, stumbled across some shocking discoveries while working as Professor Huffman's assistants searching through old letters and manuscripts from 500 years ago. Then Chris is murdered, sending Nora and Chris' girlfriend, Adriane, to Prague in search of answers revolving around a strange machine called the Lumen Dei in the hopes of proving Max's innocence. They quickly realize that their are other people searching for this machine and the answers it holds, and they will stop at nothing to retrieve them. I was left wanting more from this book. Although entertaining at times, it was a bit slow at some points that left me bored and unengaged with the story. It takes around 100 pages to fully get into the mystery and action of the book, which in my opinion was too long. There was a lot of set up and world building that needed to be done before hand, which I understand, but I was still bored. I liked most of the characters, but I honestly didn't care much for what was happening to them or the hardships they were going through. It was just a very average read for me.
2133600199	If you liked Indiana Jones when he goes to look for the ark of the covenant and he fights Nazis and religious nutcases then you will love this book. It is about 4 friends who along their teacher stumble upon a mystery hidden in a book that has been dormant for almost 500 years , it will destroy some of them and take the rest into a journey where the spiritual and violence love side by side , alongside with historical references to a mysterious poetess who through letters that were written 500 years ago is communicating to the main character, Nora . Before the end these friends will find out that these links go so deep into what they thought they knew , that they’ll realize they didn’t know anything , not even each other . Highly recommend it for anyone looking for a YA thriller.
298144651	I’m kind of ashamed to admit this, but I really liked The Da Vinci Code when it came out. So much so that I read Foucault’s Pendulum and Holy Blood, Holy Grail and even wrote a college paper on the Knights Templar. To say that I enjoy conspiracy theory is an understatement. You guys, I am SO glad that The Book Of Blood And Shadow by Robin Wasserman is published in 2012 and not 2003 because with how deftly Robin Wasserman handles secret societies, I would have inevitably been disappointed in the aforementioned books. Since you know, a really great book can ruin other similar books for you.Read the rest of my review here
125236183	I have my hands on this manuscript, and it is gooooood!
127844518	So, to begin this review, let me restate the synopsis: Nora, her best friend and his friend are all working with a professor to break the code and decipher the Voynich Manuscript. Then the professor is attacked, her best friend killed and things go south from there. There is a journey to Europe, hopping from city to city, midnight rendezvous, hooded people and lots of scrumptious danger. Throw in betrayal and heartbreak and you’ve got the marvelously addictive The Book of Blood and Shadow.Got that? The Voynich manuscript actually exists and a little bit of Googling will give you more information about it.My purpose is to talk about the book and what a book, you guys. This book is like The Da Vinci Code for young adults. It’s well written, well paced and there are no gaping holes in the logic that makes you stop for a moment and scratch your head. Nora’s voice is strong, relatable and her grief, while sincere, is not the kind that overwhelms you entirely. This is a dense book and takes time to read and absorb but the payoff is amazing.While the pacing is slow, out of necessity since this is a standalone novel (can we please scream gleefully and pump our fists for a rare addition to standalone novels?) and it needs to develop fully, there is never any moment of information dumping that threatens to overwhelm the reader. I like how the history is interspersed perfectly with the narrative. Also, I like the insertion of humour because it would have been so easy to get swamped with the desperation and grief that follows our protagonist.I think we need more books of this ilk around in the YA genre. It has not sparkly beings or things that go furry. What it has is a lot of history, a lot of imagination and all of it coheres into a fantastic story that you won’t be able to put down. Recommended.
4848881801	This was a book that I didn’t intend to read. I was scrolling through my TBR list in Libby and saw The Book of Blood and Shadow. The title reminded me of a typical YA Fantasy novel, which I wasn’t in the mood for. I was going to remove this book from my TBR shelf when I read the synopsis and something about it convinced me to give the book a try.When I opened the book, the multiple-page table of contents and the over 500-page count on the kobo was a little intimidating. So I decided, I’ll just read the first few chapters and I’ll give up on the book and return it.Instead, I read through Part 1 and met Nora, who in an attempt to escape the grief of losing a brother, uses her latin skills to get a scholarship to a fancy school. At school, she meets Chris, who knew her brother and became her best friend, in the process gaining another best friend in Adrianne, Chris’s girlfriend. We experience happiness as Nora falls in love with Max, the other student in a translation project and finally stops feeling like a third wheel.And then, everything ends.Chris is found murdered, Adrianne in a catatonic state, and Max is missing. This is when the story swallowed me, or to be more accurate, when I stopped being able to put the book down. I flew through part 2 of the book: when Nora and Adrianne fly to Prague to find Max; as a mysterious cousin of Chris named Eli tags along; and as the four of them start looking for the Lumen Dei, a machine that’s said to hold incredible power.All along the way, letters from the past accompany us. Nora was initially tasked to translate the letters of Elizabeth Weston instead of working on decoding the Voynich manuscript and she continues to translate these throughout the book. I loved that we had Elizabeth’s voice accompanying us on this journey, and it dropped enough clues that it propelled the plot forward.Speaking of clues and plots, the book is FULL of them. It’s not just the mysterious machine, there are cyphers, lots of languages to translate, and of course, the Voynich manuscript that started the whole thing. If you’re into puzzles and mysteries, you’ll probably really enjoy this aspect of the book.For me, I really loved Nora. The book is told from her point of view and her voice is so likeable. Nora has been made a cynic by grief and parents that never recovered from grief, and one thing that endeared her to me was how she took one of Elizabeth’s letters because she felt that it was private. Her ability to empathise across time and space, even if she tried to be cynical about it, was what made me like her and root for her.Long story short, I LOVED this book! The length intimidated me at first but I loved everything about it – from Nora, our protagonist and narrator, to Elizabeth’s letters, and of course, the mystery behind the Lumen Dei. I checked Goodreads and it’s apparently pretty controversial, but personally, it’s my cup of tea.This review was first posted at Eustea Reads
1334536747	3.5 starsThis book was definitely intriguing!I really enjoy stories where we are told that an event has taken place, in this case the murder of Chris, and then we go back and we see the events leading up to the crime. And I do appreciate when this is done all in one part of the story without constant time jumps as that can sometimes be confusing for the reader.I will say though that this story, for me, did get a little bit long winded in parts and also a little bit confusing. I was definitely intrigued as to where the story was going though because as we were building up to what I ordinarily would have thought of as the climax of the book we were only about half way through the story.I will also say that I did find some of the long letters written by Elizabeth a little hard to get through.There was definitely a part of the ending that left me just going a bit like 'Whaaaaaaat?!' as it was all a bit strange at the end.I would like to have been given a little more information as to what happened after the events of the story as well.I read another review that described this book as a Young Adult DaVinci Code and I think that is a really great description. If you enjoy really twisty and sometimes confusing young adult mystery stories then this is definitely a book for you.
1726718452	I discovered Robin Wasserman by accident (with the Cold Awakening trilogy) a couple of years ago, when looking for Scott Westerfeld's books. I haven't read anything by her since then, so I'd forgotten what a fantastic writer she is.Part of my attraction to this book was the setting. I'm fascinated by Prague, and it's near the top of my list for cities I'd visit if I were independently wealthy and could spend my days traveling. Wasserman certainly does the setting justice: the dual storyline, with the parallelism between 16th-century Prague and the present day, added to my enjoyment.I'm not a big fan of the current trend to stick a romance in every YA book, but in this book it was woven into the story well enough that it was integral to the plot. The characters have surprising depth, again a tribute to Wasserman's skill. I've heard others draw comparisons to certain Dan Brown books, and that's probably apt, except I would add the qualifier that I enjoyed the writing much more--it often has a poetic quality that you don't find in many fast-paced YA books. Highly recommended!
828104770	3.5 starsThis is a review of the audio book which I enjoyed over a two week period. This book would definitely appeal to young adult fans of Dan Brown's DaVinci Code or Angels and Demons. It has a similar premise of a mysterious manuscript, secret societies, and some sort of religious doomsday machine called the Lumen Dei. It also takes place in Prague and the city as a backdrop to the story really adds to the intrigue. Picture young Americans abroad for the first time in a foreign country and in danger from black cloaked bad guys - this gets pretty intense.After the murder of her best friend Chris, Nora, along with Adrienne, Max and the mysterious Eli go off to Prague to follow the clues in Elizabeth's letters. The story is quite engaging and there's a lot going on. The reader did a wonderful job. She portrayed a fairly convincing Nora. The Czech pronunciations which would have caused me to trip over my tongue were well done. I also liked that she was able to change her voices for each character.All in all, this was a most engaging audio book. I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the DaVinci Code.
686777863	HOLY CRAP THIS BOOK WAS JUST WOOOAAAHHHHTwist after twist AFTER twist.. just *mind blown*
199173713	ABSOLUTELY fantastic. Review coming soon (I'm not going to read another book all weekend until I catch up on my reviews)
392646408	When The Da Vinci Code arrived in theaters, my mother and I didn't waste any time to buy our tickets to see it. I wanted to see it because the movie looked interesting. My mother wanted to watch it because Tom Hanks was in it. The opening credits came, and I was already excited. 30 minutes later, I was like, "Holy crap".Then I woke up in my room.I was very confused. Did we went to the movies or not? Did I just took a nap before the movie?Then, I saw my mom walking in my room. I asked her about The Da Vinci Code. She told me that I fell asleep halfway through the movie. And I shouldn't worry about it because the movie wasn't that good anyway, it was boring despite the whole mystery, religion, and secret societies thing.That's how I felt with The Book of Blood and Shadow.Now, don't get me wrong. I love Robin Wasserman's work. From bitchy, backstabbing, jaw-dropping guilty pleasures (Seven Deadly Sins series), to mysterious powers (Chasing Yesterday trilogy), to robotic science fiction (Cold Awakening trilogy), and hacking universities (Hacking Harvard). She is one of my favorite authors, and I admired that she doesn't stick with just one genre; she explores them, and experiments it into something unique and enjoyable. This is the first time I don't enjoy one of her books. I tried, but I just couldn't get into it.Let's talk about the plot first.It's clear from the back that Chris, Nora Kane's best friend, is dead. Adriane, Chris's girlfriend, is traumatized from the events. And apparently, Max, Nora's boyfriend, is accused of killing Chris. It's up to Nora to prove his innocence. I liked how the first three pages were done: Straight to the point. Then, it's immediately subverted by going from the beginning. It slowed down the pace and made me lost interest for a second. Part 1 was extremely boring and unnecessary. I didn't want to know about Nora's relationships right now! I wanted to know that during the book! Not at the beginning! If Part 1 was eliminated, then it would be great.Then, after Part 1, Nora meets Eli, Chris's unknown "cousin". I knew from the start that Eli wasn't what he said he was. I was baffled that Nora believed him. Damn you, Nora! Why are you so naive?!Then, Nora and the gang goes to Prague. And let me just say, I like that I was able to picture Prague. The scenery was simply perfect.Also, apparently, Chris's death have something to do with Elizabeth Jane Weston's (Yes, that one!) letters. The letters have something hidden; codes to be exact, that will resolve some unresolved secrets.One of the few things that I enjoyed were Elizabeth's letters. How can a dead woman be more interesting than the main protagonist? Nora Kane was an ingenue idiot, and also very flat!Yeah, that explains everything.And don't get me started with the mystery! It was very predictable and boring! I found myself rolling my eyes at some scenes, even thinking, "Oh, goody! That's suddenly happening! I don't even care!" I saw all the twists coming. Well, except the last one, but I will talk about that later on.Another thing I didn't like was the awkward, long sentences. Even though Wasserman's writing is great, in this book, most of the sentences suddenly have running sentences with awkward commas. It slowed down the story EVEN more and it was very difficult to finish.But, do I give up? Noooooo.Well, at least Nora is an ordinary girl, right?Ha! You wish!Nora happens to be (view spoiler)[like some sort of "chosen one" for a secret society, which coincidentally, the rest of the gang, was secretly in there! *slow clap* Bravo. That was a very good plot twist. (hide spoiler)] I mean, how cliched can you be? It was unnecessary! If you wanted to make your main character unique, don't do cliches! It only makes them uninteresting! GOSH!!I was starting to lose interesting until, OHMAHGAWD!! (view spoiler)[ Max really did killed Chris! So much for claiming innocence. And, HOLAY CHIZ!! Eli isn't Chris's cousin, he's from that secret society, and he has a crush on Nora! Wait, that's not surprising AT ALL. But then, MOTHAR OF GAWD!! Adriane, Chris's girlfriend, was HAVING AN AFFAIR WITH MAX, NORA'S BOYFRIEND!! And she happens to support everything he was done despite the fact that it almost got her killed! Isn't danger sexy? (hide spoiler)]Seriously, that was so forced.And also: (view spoiler)[ Guess what Adriane does? "I thought you said you didn't kill him, Max! You liar! Nora, I'm so sorry, I didn't know they would hurt you!" *after everything is over* "By the way, I hooked up with Max because I thought Chris was yours, even though that doesn't make sense because I was the one dating him, but he he didn't love me, so I dated Max behind your back because he said that he loved me. Even though he killed Chris. I hope you can forgive me."Adriane, you expect forgiveness after what happened? Are you an idiot or just a natural backstabber? Gosh, I can't believe that I had sympathy for you and Max! You want to apologize? TOO LATE!!! It's done!! You feel bad about it?Seriously, go to a corner and die. Thanks a lot, you backstabbing bitch and cheating bastard!! Go to Hell!!! (hide spoiler)]Man, those were so angry words. But seriously. Move your friendship drama someone else. It doesn't fit in this book.The ending made me slam the book against the wall! What the fuck was that? That was one of the lamest climax I'd ever read! What a terrible ending; nothing was that much resolved. If you see the spoiler above, you'll understand. On second thought, don't do it. It'll spoil the book for you.Well, duh, Merary!But, it wasn't a bad book. I guess I wasn't the right audience for this book after all. If you like The Da Vinci Code, I think you will enjoy this one; it has the same elements and drama (?).I just learned my lesson with this book: This type of books are not your thing.Reader: Oh, really?Me: Yes, really! As mentioned before, what saved this story, was Elizabeth's letters, and the historical parts. Robin Wasserman did her research. I admire that. :)Oh! Maybe she can do some spin-off with Elizabeth Jane Weston!! That would be awesome!!BONUS TIME!!!Aaaaaawww, YEAH!!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3324975750	Robin Wasserman’s The Book of Blood and Shadow had the potential to be a gripping read, one that should have had me hooked throughout. Although I was curious to see how this one came together, it didn’t quite grab me in the way it could have.Although there were some points when this one was a three-star read, I found myself unable to round my rating up in the end. There were far too many things that I worked out, too many things that could have been a huge surprise but were obvious. Add in the fact that I never really felt the emotional connection to the characters that I could have, that I was simply reading to see how the pieces came together, and this one let me down in the end.All in all, there was potential, but this one failed to deliver what I’d hoped for.
4670913978	** spoiler alert ** I loved the book , yet I still haven't figured out who killed Chris. It's confusing, many of them think it's Max while it also says someone else.
307094936	** spoiler alert ** 'What?''Why you can't let yourself believe in all this. Why you need the Lumen Dei not to be real.''I thought I was pretty clear. I can't believe in it because it's ridiculous and because there's no such thing as --''God. You were clear,' he said. 'Because if there were a God, he took your brother away. He took Chris away. What would you want with a God like that? But if there were a machine - a miracle - that could prove you were wrong, you'd be stuck with him. And you'd have to ask why he took them.''You think that scares me?''I think you're afraid to believe there's something out there that wants to take everything you love away from you. And maybe...afraid to hope that with the Lumen Dei, with the power it's supposed to confer, maybe you could bring them back.'"Nora Kane lives a fairly uneventful life in a small college town. Her studies at Chapman Prep, specifically her gift for Latin, leads her to a supervised independent study project at the local college, working as part of a research team translating letters written in Latin, under the loose supervision of an aged yet determined professor. Nora is given the relatively unenviable task of translating the letters of Elizabeth Weston (yes, the actual poet), who was stepdaughter to Edward Kelley, a famous 16th-century alchemist. The task of translating the seemingly more interesting Kelley letters falls to Nora’s best friend, Chris, and his roommate, Max. Translating Elizabeth's letters to her brother, Nora discovers that Elizabeth was intimately involved with the plans for the Lumen Dei, a device that would supposedly allow its users to speak with God. But as Elizabeth's letters become more desperate, Nora finds that she and her research team are getting dangerously close to exposing dark, long-held secrets. And there are many people who will want them to be silenced before they reveal those secrets. When Chris is brutally murdered because he holds one of Elizabeth's last letters, it leaves his girlfriend, Adriane, catatonic, and Max mysteriously gone. Nora and Max have grown to love one another during their work on the project, and while Nora is convinced that Max couldn’t have had anything to do with Chris’s murder, she doesn’t have many clues as to who else could have committed the act. Signs and clues from the letters lead Nora, Adriane and Chris’s cousin to Prague, where their search for Max quickly devolves into a sinister journey into the dark past of a nation and family, a journey that will force them to cross paths with ancient societies, fierce zealots, and realize that no one is really who you believe them to be. All this in a centuries-old quest to obtain and use the Lumen Dei, which can immediately change history forever. While something of a slow-starter, this novel soon grabbed me. I’ve never read THE DA VINCI CODE or THE HISTORIAN, two titles I’m seeing this novel compared to a lot, and that’s probably for the best. But the same elements that seem to appear in those novels (long-lost secrets, coded messages, secret and sinister groups, and an intertwining of science and religion) show up here. The pacing in this book is outstanding, once things get rolling, and the way Wasserman merges Nora’s dangerous search in Prague with the ancient letters and clues of Elizabeth is very well done. Nora and Adriane’s characters are well-drawn, and display tremendous growth over the course of the book. However, the male characters are, by comparison, relatively flat; I get that Wasserman has to keep them somewhat vague, in order to spring the surprises about their identities later. Still, those surprises were pretty easy to spot from a distance, and because I wasn’t as invested in the characters of Max or Eli (or even Chris, for that matter), I found myself not caring as much when Nora discovered who they were. I was much more interested in the structure and writing in the novel, than the actual twists, I suppose. This is a very entertaining read, and one that will challenge readers; the language and sentence structures are much more advanced than in much other YA, and the length of the novel may scare some readers away. I would not be surprised at all to see this mentioned in Printz discussions. Highly recommended.
318889826	At a Glance:Although the pacing was sometimes slow, I found the Book of Blood and Shadow to be intense, exciting, and intriguing. It is full of history, loaded with betrayal, and sprinkled with romance and friendship. I have never read a book like this!The Audiobook:Yes, yes, yes. If you're looking for a new audiobook, or you're debating between audio and hardcover, I'm going to just put my vote in for the audio. Why? Well, first of all, the reader is fantastic. She does an amazing job with voices, accents, and languages. She reads things in Latin, in Czech and of course English! :D I was seriously impressed. But the biggest reason that I would choose listening to this over reading it, is because of all the words that I didn't have to figure out or pronounce! There was a ton of Latin in this book, and Emily Card just rattles it off as if it's her second language. If I had been reading it, I would have stared at all those words and phrases, then ended up just skipping over them or mispronouncing them, so listening to the audio was perfect! "I should probably start with the blood..."Yeah, The Book of Blood and Shadow definitely had it's fair share of bloodiness, as you can imagine, but it wasn't nearly as bloody as I thought it might be. That's how this story begins, though, with the blood, which immediately had me fascinated. I love a good mystery, and this book was full of them. Mysteries, lies, murders and surprises at every turn. Although I had my theories, I ended up suspicious of just about everyone at one time or another! I love it when there are clues to the answer, but not such obvious ones that the hero/heroine looks like an idiot for not seeing them.Historical Fantasy/Contemp Mystery:Yeah, I'm a fan. Who knew? Blood and Shadow was a mix of historical fantasy and contemporary mystery. Now, I'm going to admit, I don't like a lot of detail when I'm reading. And this book had a lot of background information, details about scenery, and many internal ponderings that did slow things down quite a bit. In the middle of the book, I actually considered putting it down because it was just not moving fast enough for me. BUT, I pushed myself over that hump, and I'm SO glad I did. This story got seriously intense, and completely fascinating! I love how much it was based on historical facts, but then completely re-imagined with this entire secret society of people. I was blown away.Characters, Friendships, Love and LiesI love the way these relationships were set up. The friendships and romances in this book were so original. There were layers and layers of complications. Just when you thought things were going to move in one direction, they would go a completely different way. It was almost like reading multiple books in one. I wasn't necessarily a fan of all the characters, or love interests, but they were definitely well-written and complex. Whether I wanted to slap them or kiss them, they all evoked pretty strong feelings from me!A YA Da Vinci Code?Yeah, this book reminded me a lot of the Da Vinci Code. With the rich writing, the historical detail, the old religion, and of course, the Latin! There were mysterious old documents and writings, strange religious cults, and the fascinating, yet creepy setting of Prague. But about that YA part.....I'm not so sure. I really enjoyed reading it, but I can't imagine my daughter (Kit (17)) reading it. It was just too much (too much detail, too much history, too many slow parts). I do think that some teens will enjoy it; those deeper thinkers who love excellent, detailed writing and historical fiction. But others, I'm afraid, will just find it too slow for them. I think this one might appeal more to college age and above. I'd love to hear your thoughts on this!Book Doppelganger:The Da Vinci Code-AndyeReadingteen.netContent: Profanity: Moderate Sexual Content: Moderate Violence: Heavy Other Notables: Underage DrinkingFor more details, check out The Book of Blood and Shadow on ParentalBookReviews.com
366662954	There are two types of books: books that start slow and pick up pace and books that throw you straight into the action.This book is of the first kind.If you think of it, most great books spend a lot of time building the world. Well, I can assure you that this book is quite worth the slow start.I read somewhere that The Book of Blood and Shadow is known as YA's Angels and Demons. When I started reading the book, I could definitely see why it is called so. There are many similar elements, but it is never trying to be Angels and Demons.I've read so many YA books, and I've reached certain conclusions:1)If a story is good, certain faults can be overlooked because it makes up for the mistakes. 2)There are so many female characters in the YA genre, and there are many ones. I don't like whiny characters.3)Mystery makes everything much better.So, coming back to The Book of Blood and Shadow. Great story. Check. Awesome protagonist. Check. Mystery. Double check. I was blown away by this book. I honestly did not expect it to be this great. More details on why I loved the elements I discussed above. Protagonist and other characters: Nora, oh Nora. I LOVED her voice; for many instances, she reminded me of Rose Hathaway from the Vampire Academy series. She's kick-butt, realistic, and does not whine. Honestly, it has been a while since I really enjoyed reading from a girl's point of view. As for the other characters, Adriane and Max were equally significant to the story and never felt like extras. I think the characters in this books were well-developed and remarkable. Mystery: So, if this book was compared to Dan Brown's works, then it's definitely pregnant with mystery. You're hit with revelations at the correct time and in many instances. And of course, with mysteries come even greater plot twists. Yes, we had a salad of shockers throughout this book. Writing style: Like I mentioned, I was so happy to read the book from Nora's perspective. The writing style is realistic and gives Nora a unique voice. She's funny, serious, and scared sometimes. Honestly, I have to applaud Wasserman for giving Nora such a unique and fresh voice for YA female characters.Even though I pretty much liked everything, there was one thing that bugged me.The romance.I thought that it happened quite suddenly. It felt like they needed to throw romance in because YA is popular with romances.But then again, when a book is really good, I can overlook some faults.Overall, if you are looking for a fast-paced book that will keep you awake late at night, messes with your brain, and makes your fingers turn the page over and over, then The Book of Blood and Shadow is definitely for you.5/5 stars fully deserved.
316648937	Rating for the first half of the book: 4 stars Rating for the second half of the book: 2 starsI am shocked that I made it though this entire book; the second half of the book was gag worthy. I decided to buy this book because I was intrigued by the premise. A four hundred old mystery, the murder of a best friend, a boyfriend accused of said murder who has disappeared, and lets not forget a trip to Prague to piece together the clues, how could I have resisted just a juicy sounding book? Just another example of “Don’t judge a book by its description.” The book started very well. Nora appeared to be a strong, capable female main character, with a nice sense of humor. I especially liked her proficiency with Latin, my personal choice when it comes in foreign languages. Yes, I know it is “dead”, but it is still cool. The descriptions of the two couples were cute and romantic. But, what really interested me was the letters that Nora was assigned to translate, each one revealed a little more about the mystery. The first half of the book is equivalent to a flashback explaining the events leading up to Chris’ murder. After Nora discovers the body, she soon heads off to Prague and the book goes down hill from there. I cannot explain a lot of the reasons why I hated the second half of the book without spoilers, but I will try my best. First off, from the very first page, Robin Wasserman put a heavy emphasis on foreshadowing and hints. In my experience, if an author tries hard to make you think one thing, the complete opposite is true; so, I knew who killed Chris about three-fourths of the way through the book. Subtle, this book was not! Another thing that bugged me about the sound half was Nora’s transformation; she turned into a whinny damsel in distress, enough said. On a slightly unrelated topic, it was interesting to compare Nora’s descriptions of Prague with the descriptions in Daughter of Smoke and Bone. Nora seemed off put by the city, calling it “alien” and describing how run down it looked. On the other hand, Karou from Daughter of Smoke and Bone focuses on the beauty and history of the city. I am not trying to say one description is better than the other, I just haven’t read a lot of books placed in Prague so the discontinuity in the descriptions was intriguing. To sum up this review, don’t read this book. It is not worth the money or time.
208400480	Well. Read that faster than I thought I was going to O_oThis book was amazing. Of course, that doesn't even begin to describe it, but be assured. It was amazing, astounding, gush-worthy, and definitely worth my time.I guess I had pretty high expectations to start off with - I've read some of Robin Wasserman's other books, and I thought they were pretty good. But when I read this, I couldn't even tell that the same author had written this. The Book of Blood and Shadow bypassed her other books by far. For one thing, I loved Nora, the main character and narrator. I think I related to her a little bit, because she wanted proof for things. Things like if God existed or if Eli was really trying to help her. She didn't just automatically accept things like too many teens in YA do. She was realistic. I was frustrated by her actions a few times, sure, but isn't that pretty much inevitable? Either way, Nora was real. Easy to understand. And she didn't annoy me with any whining - she dealt with everything that was happening. Her emotions over Chris and everything else that had happened were realistic, too. She was in pain. Obvious pain. But she didn't just give up, and she didn't just move on so fast it was like nothing had happened. It all just made an amazing character. And Eli. Oh, Eli. It doesn't matter if you have no idea who he is because he's not mentioned in the summary, but rest assured, he was an amazing character, too. And he wasn't a pansy. I loved that about him. He didn't let his feelings get in the way of things, usually, and yet he did everything he could to help Nora with everything. He was just awesome. The other characters, I wasn't really a fan of, but Max and Adriane? I'm pretty sure it was okay to hate them. They did some pretty terrible things.Another plus of this book: the writing. It was so powerful, so descriptive, even action-filled. Nora's thoughts weren't skimmed over like I've been seeing too often lately. It was just an amazing style of writing.And what I thought was really cool about this book was the plot. It was so original; I've never even heard of a lot of the things involved.Overall: The Book of Blood and Shadow is a new favorite of mine. It was powerful, original, and I finished it within a day because I couldn't stop reading. It's not mushy, but there's still some romance mixed in, and there was so much suspense surrounding this huge mystery that I can't think of a single negative thing to say. 5 stars.
223642126	The Book Of Blood And Shadow has been getting a ton of great reviews. I went into it expecting to add to the list of those reviews. Sadly I was disappointed with The Book Of Blood And Shadow.The Book Of Blood And Shadow started off strong. The first 20 or 30 pages were intriguing and mysterious. The story seemed like it had a lot of potential and that it would be very gripping. Sadly that was not the case. The story dragged and there were times when I found myself wanting to skip to the end just to be done with it.The writing however was my biggest problem. The Book Of Blood And Shadow is full of run-on sentences. Some paragraphs ended up being just one super long sentence. In the beginning it was relatively easy to ignore them and keep reading but as I got farther into the book I couldn’t help but get annoyed by them. I found myself paying more attention to them than what was going on in the book.However this book did have some redeeming qualities. The setting was spectacular. The book starts off in New England and there isn’t really anything special about it. Things really take off though in Prague. The monuments, cemeteries, churches, even the hostels in Prague were fabulous. The setting was so wonderful that it was almost like being in Prague.The history was another fabulous aspect. The letters from Elizabeth Weston, the Voynich manuscript, the Hledaci, everything was so interesting and detailed. Some might find the history to be a little much and a tad boring at times but I’m not one of them. The history was my favorite part of the book.As for the characters I didn’t really like them all that much but I didn’t dislike them all that much either. My biggest issue was that Nora was so naive. She was unwilling to see things that were right in front of her face. There were times I just wanted to slap some sense into her. However she was very smart and quite easy to like. Chris, Adriana, Max, and Eli all could have used a bit more development but I didn’t have any complaints about them. Well no complaints I can voice without spoiling things.Overall, I’m sure a lot of people will love The Book Of Blood And Shadow, I’m just not one of them. I would recommend checking this one out from the library if you’re interested.
217178017	I got this book from Netgalley, and am so glad I did! I'm a huge fan of Robin Wasserman's books because of the Skinned series, which I think is now called the Cold Awakening series. But anyway, this is a really good book. It is one that makes me realize why I can never finish any of the books I start. The depth of the detail and the back story in this is incredible! I love books that use letters or flashbacks to historical diaries or events like this one does. In a way this is a Da Vinci Code type of book in that it brings in an ancient religious sect. I also like the sciencey part to it, as I am a science teacher. This was a big book, lots and lots of story to read. It starts out and says where it starts is the middle of the story. But really, while it is kind of the start of the whole 2nd part, the 2nd part is HUGE! Not in a bad way, just you get to that part and it's not really the middle of the book, just the middle of the story. I do like that it starts like that, so that you know kind of what is to happen, but you don't know just what will happen after that until you get to that part. I loved that I was kept guessing on whether the boyfriend, Max, was a bad guy or a good guy the whole time. So many clues led you back and forth. And the cousin, the unknown guy who shows up after Chris's murder, again, you don't know if he's good or bad. I kind of wanted to like Eli, hated him at first for how he talked to Nora, the main character, but as the story went on, really liked the love-hate relationship they had, I often enjoy those types of stories.The story talks about an elusive machine that is supposed to get the maker/user in touch with God, it is called the Lumen Dei. The way it works at the end when they finally get it together is really good and totally adds to the whole story, and makes up for waiting all through the story to know what it will really do, although you're not left knowing what actually happens.Great book, I'll be putting it as a staff recommendation at the bookstore where I work when it comes out in January.
411979543	Ehhhhnnnn. I don't know about this one. This might be a bit spoilery, so if you want to read this book and be surprised, don't continue.****** Okay you've been warned.This started off in a very promising way. I believed the characters, got into what was happening, and was willing to overlook some of the annoying things the author would do with the writing. Examples of such: the super-short chapters that are supposed to be all cool and foreshadowy. WE GET IT, HE'S DEAD. Also, having your protag be a Latin translating genius who is baffled by some simple Italian. The roots are all the same! I could muck out half of it with just my (now rusty) French. Yeesh. But whatever, I was intrigued.However, after they get to Europe, it kind of all went to hell, and my ability to suspend belief started failing me. I am a bookish girl, I always have been. I read a LOT. So when I read things like this, with twists and red herrings cominatcha with obvious tells, I can only assume that the main character is not a bookish person, or she would have seen a bunch of things coming, waaaay in advance. Like I did. The writing style also seems to go further off the rails, with crazy run-on sentences that had me re-reading sections because I was confused. And then the end. When this started morphing into Raiders of the Lost Ark type fantasy effects, I was definitely a lost cause. I think I was betrayed by really high hopes for this book, which were encouraged by the pretty solid beginning. This could have been great, if only the elements of the fantastic and that tricky bitch FATE had been left well enough alone. And if a good copy editor would have been employed. Sad story 2 stars.
1587057540	Un petit air de Da Vinci Code dans cette lecture ! Des voyages entre les USA et le vieux continent, des courses poursuites dans les vieilles rues de Prague, des groupuscules religieux et ancestraux.Si j’ai eu du mal à rentrer dans l’histoire, je me suis vite retrouvée tourner les pages le plus rapidement possible pour connaitre le fin mot de l’histoire et qui étaient véritablement les protagonistes. C’est ce qu’on pourrait appeler un page turner. J’ai souvent trouvé les personnages un peu agaçants, parfois trop surs d’eux et clichés ( l’amie riche, l’héroïne pauvre et mal-aimée..). J’ai trouvé que certains événements étaient un peu trop facile, qui laisse des adolescents de 17/18 ans disparaitre à l’autre bout du monde ?J’ai apprécié par contre les parallèles entre les lettres d’Elizabeth que traduit Nora, nous pouvons ainsi suivre ses aventures en même temps que nos personnages.Je lui met 4 étoiles car mine de rien je l’ai dévoré, sans être transcendée par les personnages et l’écriture.
269466167	Nora’s caught in a journey to find out the truth about her best friend Chris’ death. Not only is she tries to find out who his murderer was but she also seeks out her boyfriend Max who seems to have disappeared. Caught in a web of lies, secret societies and even more murder, Nora can only depend on herself.To be honest, the first 150 pages bored me. I was a little confused as to which part was the present and who all the characters were until the narration was explained in detail. But I prowled on because I had to give it a chance. So many questions left to answer and I’m a curious person with needs. Oh this curious person was definitely satisfied after reading the entire book.As soon as Nora’s best friend Chris died, I knew I was looking at a book that reminded me of The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown. A murder starts the tale off, and as all good books go, the mystery has yet so many questions to answer. I love this book! It had a lot of intrigue with just the right amount of sleuthing by the main characters to earn a four star rating.
200738623	I really enjoyed this book! If liked the Da Vinci Code or the National Treasure movies I think you will love this book. This is a YA novel with a complex plot. There is a lot of history in this finely tuned plot and it's weaved magnificently through the story. The Book of Blood and Shadows was filled with mystery, pulling the rug from beneath you moments and romance. I'm not sure if it is the first in a series or not but I would love to see what life has in store for the characters and how their lives are after the fall out of the novel.
2081820169	I have mixed feelings about his book.In one way, I love how rich in history this book is. I got to learn of Prague's history and experience the landscape with the characters. I loved visualising this ancient city, and loved being there. I also love when books teach you something (more than just have a moral to the story). I like learning about new places and historical figures and science, and this book did an excellent job of teaching these things. I also love how I felt like a traveller--like I have really been to Prague. Robin Wasserman does a wonderful job in her descriptions of Prague. You can feel the textures on your fingertips that she describes, smell the fragrances of the old buildings, taste the foreign food, see every touch of colour and shadow, and hear the crowds, the singers, the birds....On the other hand, I was not very fond of the characters and felt like I had read this sort of story before. It reminded me a lot of the Da Vinci Code. The main character, Nora, did not have enough of a personality for me. There is nothing major that sets her apart from other fictional characters that I had read before in many other books. I also don't like how naive she is. Throughout the majority of the story, she refuses to listen to the people around her and it is ultimately her downfall and ends up hurting her friends as well. To make herself feel better, she ignores the truth that is right in front of her, and chooses to believe what deep down she knows is wrong. She trust the wrong people over and over, and doesn't ever seem to learn from her mistakes.The other thing that bothered me about this book is how girls are portrayed. Not only are the girls naive in this story, but they are also timid, shallow, untrustworthy, and unloyal. (*SPOILER* Adriane is supposed to be Nora's best friend, yet we find out in the end that she never had Nora's best interests at heart and that she cares more about a boy than she does for her own friend.) I like to see friendship between women in the stories I read. I like to see them for how I know them to be. Women have fought long and hard to suppress this long accepted stereotype that women will stab their friends in the back for a man, so it made me sad to see a character in this book reinforcing that stereotype. That is not who we are. We are strong and supportive of each other.I will end on a positive however: The plot of the story was enjoyable and an adventure. I loved getting to piece together a puzzle with the characters and be given many chances to solve the mystery myself. I found myself constantly thinking about all the clues I had been given, long after I had shut the book for the day, and coming up with theories. The journey was a pleasant one and full of fun and adventure along the way. There was lots of action, romance, and drama, which did a wonderful job of drawing me into the characters' world. There was never a dull moment in this book where I felt like the story was dragging. There was the perfect amount of excitement, description, explanations, and dialogue. Robin Wasserman writes in a short sentenced, point form way that makes her novels very easy and fast to read while not losing any elements of the story that make it seem so real and alive. I love her small bouts of poetry that we see throughout her writing, and how her characters always seem to connect with it.Beautifully written.
2432122759	Das Buch aus Blut und SchattenKlappentext:Wahrscheinlich sollte ich mit dem Blut anfangen. Blut ist schließlich immer für eine Schlagzeile gut, stimmt's? Und es fragen ja sowieso alle nach dem Blut. Wie hat es ausgesehen? Wie hat es sich angefühlt? Warum war es an meinen Händen?Aber wenn ich mit jener Nacht anfange, mit dem Blut bedeutet das, dass Chris nur eine Leiche ist, die im Haus seiner Eltern ausblutet, und Adriane nur eine Irre mit toten Augen, die stöhnend vor und zurückschaukelt, die Kleidung blutdurchtränkt, das Gesicht weiß wie Papier. Wenn ich damit anfangen würde, wäre Max nur ein Nichts. Leerer Raum. Vakuum und Wind. Dieser Teil würde vermutlich stimmen.Meinung:Ich gebe zu, ich habe mir dieses Buch vor langer langer Zeit gekauft, nachdem ich schon die "Skinned-Reihe" von Robin Wasserman gelesen hatte. Allerdings kam danach nie die rechte Lust auf, mich diesem "Schinken" zu widmen. Die Schrift ist sehr groß und so kommt man dann doch recht schnell voran - das liegt aber natürlich nicht nur an der Schrift! Wenn man sich auf das Buch und die Geschichte einlässt, dann findet man sich fast umgehend im spannenden Leben der Protagonistin Nora wieder. Diese muss zunächst den schrecklichen Unfalltod ihres älteren Bruders überwinden. Dabei sind ihre trauernden Eltern, welche sich selbst in die Arbeit stürzen oder in Zimmern verschließen keine wirkliche Hilfe... Ihr einziger Freund in dieser schweren Zeit wird Chris, er steht ihr bei und irgendwie hat man das Gefühl, dass diese zwei ein Paar sein könnten. Wäre da nicht Adriane. Sie wird die Freundin von Chris und somit auch eine Freundin von Nora. Als Nora und ihre Freunde "beschließen" ihrem Geschichtslehrer beim Übersetzen eines skurrilen Buches, sowie Briefen in lateinischer Sprache eines jungen Mädchens namens Elizabeth Weston zu helfen, lernt sie auch Chris besten Freund Max kennen und lieben. So übersetzen sie gemeinsam tagtäglich diverse Schriftstücke, um der geheimen Geschichte des skurrilen Buches aus Blut und Schatten auf die Spur zu kommen. Doch die Ereignisse überschlagen sich: Tage nach dem mysteriösen Herzanfall des Professors, bei dem scheinbar nachgeholfen wurde, findet Nora ihren besten Freund Chris ermordet auf. Daneben sitzt die unter Drogen gesetzte Adriane, welche sich später an nichts erinnern kann. Von Max fehlt jede Spur. Chris bewahrte einen, im Futter des Buches versteckten, Brief für Nora auf - musste er deswegen sterben?Der Rest der Handlung findet in Prag statt, denn Max wurde angeblich nach Prag entführt! Prag war die Heimat der Elisabeth Weston. Ihre Briefe, welche Nora übersetzte, liefern immer mehr Hinweise auf eine geheime Maschine: das Lumen Dei. Vor Hunderten von Jahren versuchte man diese gefährliche Maschine zu bauen, um mit Gott sprechen zu können. Es scheint nun als wären noch heute verschiedene Allianzen hinter dem Geheimnis dieser Maschine her und Nora und ihre Freunde mitten hineingeraten...Ich kann dieses Buch wirklich empfehlen: es ist einfach spannend geschrieben und man verliebt sich augenblicklich in Prag. Was für mich besonders interessant war, waren die geschichtlichen Fakten, welche die Autorin hat einfließen lassen.
436712871	Warning: Littered with spoilers!!!I'd love to go through the book point by point but I'm too tired. Do you know that where I am right now, it's past four-thirty in the morning and I still didn't sleep because I was determined to finish this? I'm almost always like that with books; I try to finish them even if it means losing my sleep. This is not the first review I had to cut short just to sleep. I suppose I can add more tomorrow or the days after but I want to read another book and write another review so sorry. What I'll end up typing now is what this review will be.Argh. I thought this would have been nicer! I honestly did! The first three parts were great. Seriously. It was cool reading Elizabeth's letters, discovering the clue in the book, and the hints that someone had just broken it. I loved everyone and I loved the story. The prose managed to stay upbeat while giving brilliant descriptions at the same time. I even swooned for Max and Chris, although more for Chris, as you can see in my updates before finishing the book and writing my review. Chris was awesome!“Always give the audience what they want,” he said.“That’s my motto. It’s what makes me so lovable.”“Lovable? More like—”“Ah, ah, ah.” He held up a hand to silence me. “Thinkbefore you speak. Remember, words can hurt.”“Because you’re so sensitive?”“You know me, I’m like a little girl.”“An insult to little girls everywhere.”“Again with the compliments! See, now I know you’refeeling better. Admit it.”“Maybe,” I allowed.“And what do we say when our most brilliant andcherished friend turns our frown upside down?”I sighed. “We say thank you. Loser.” But he knew I meantit.“Anytime.” And I knew he did, too.He whined about the way Adriane kept blowing off their dates for student-council meetings, lacrosse practice, and the various obligations that had accompanied a recent, inexplicable embrace of her heretofore nonexistent responsible side. I complained about Max going into attack mode whenever he got frustrated, snapping angrily at whoever happened to be around, usually me, and then apologizing five seconds later with such limpid puppy-dog eyes it was tempting to pat him on the head and give him a treat.We still fit together, and that, more than anything, made it all okay. I resolved not to let so much time pass before we did this again. Max wasn’t a replacement for Chris; I needed them both.“You know, if this were a movie,” Chris said, “we’d probably decide to ditch those ungrateful fools and start making out.”“And if this were a movie, there would probably be a really awkward moment after you put that out there.”“The air charged with sexual tension.”“Undoubtedly.”“Sparks flying.”“Tongues twisting, lips smacking—”“Ugh, are you trying to make me puke?” he asked, laughing. I batted my eyelashes at him. “You really know how to flatter a girl, don’t you?”“Like you weren’t thinking it.”“I was going to say vomit,” I said. “It’s more ladylike.”“No one says vomit. Not even ladies.”“Really? I, a lady, will now use the term in a sentence: The idea of making out with you makes me want to vomit. Also to gag, regurgitate, expectorate, and hurl.”He puckered up and blew me a loud kiss, raspberry style.“Love you, too.”At the beginning, we didn’t know what it was, Chris and I.We didn’t know if stale pizza and a scratched Spartacus DVD—which mercifully froze after the first chariot race, freeing up the rest of the night for botched conjugations and several heated rounds of Egyptian ratscrew—constituted an awkward date, or just a night of shared homework between two people who seemed unlikely to share anything but a cafeteria table, and that only under duress. But even at the beginning, after that first and last painful attempt to satisfy convention—the awkward hand brushing, the mandatory gazing, the aborted attempt at a kiss, halted with his lips somewhere in the proximity of my nose, both of us flinching away at the same moment in simultaneous, horrified laughter—there was something between us: like at first sight.I was sad, knowing Chris would die and dreaded it. But a few chapters we finally reach the part described in the summary, where Nora lost her best friends and first love, it went downhill albeit slowly. I had enjoyed Eli's banter with Nora. I was pulled in by the mystery of the letters, the secret codes, and the sneaking around. But Nora had started showing her thickness and tendency to act like a complete idiot. It worsens as I went on to the point it ruined it for me. I still managed to enjoy a few bits, like when Nora and Eli pretended to be a couple to fool the monk and Eli's coolness. But since Nora was the main character and I had to read from her thoughts... *rubs temples with knuckles*Nora kept berating Elizabeth for her choices when they're the same. There's no doubt about their spiritual connection; their lives were pretty much identical save for a few details that make them slightly different. Love for Latin, dead older brothers, and bad choices? Yeah... Nora just tried to believe it's over like Elizabeth in the end. Stupid girls who refuse to take proper responsibility.Another bad thing about the book other than Nora's thickness and tendency to act like a complete idiot is the inconsistency. Nora and Adriana don't freak out that Eli killed (or at least attempted to) kill someone? Oh, they were disturbed but that was it. You guys don't have proof that he killed Chris! But Nora couldn't accept stealing or feels really guilty about it at times? Way to go! Murder, even if it's a bad guy, is okay in contrast to stealing. And you called them psychos? You're becoming one yourself.Nora has more faults I must point one, a notable one is her shying away from the truth, but I can barely see what I'm typing. If I have any typos, seemingly unfinished thoughts, or the whatnot, I'm sorry.The Book of Blood and Shadow could have done better. The plot was brilliant and the writing engaging, but it didn't manage to keep it up to the end. It's a shame.Characters I Liked from Beginning to End (well, maybe not beginning but close enough): Chris, Eli, and the HoffChris is the perfect guy best friend (or the closest to one). Eli was a more kickass version of Chris. The Hoff tried to warn Nora.Some of Eli's conversations wherein he reminded me of Chris and helped fool me that he is Chris's cousin:“You know this guy?” Adriane said.“Remember Chris’s cousin I told you about?”She made a face like I’d asked her to taste-test somesour milk. “You said he was cute.”Eli preened.“No, you asked if he was cute,” I reminded her. “I saidthat wasn’t the point.”“Not a no,” Eli pointed out.“You think Max did this?” I said.“Who else knew we were here?”“You did,” I told Eli.Eli snorted. “Excellent deduction. While you weren’t paying attention, I teleported back here, used my powers of super speed to ransack the room in under thirty seconds, and then teleported back before you knew I was gone.”
302440083	The Book of Blood and ShadowRobin WassermanYA Suspense/ThrillerApril 10th, 2012Rating: PG-13 (strictly for the violence)Coffee Beans: 4.5/5Spoilers: NopeFavorite Line: "But things don't just fall apart. People break them." (pg 16, ebook), "Gone is gone." (pg 89), "The sound that ripped open the night was the sound of my heart, screaming his name." (pg 440, ebook)Disclaimer: I received this book free from NetGalley in exchange for this honest review1.Awesome Book2.REALLY long book3.Awesome Book4.Worth the time to read the 450 pagesIt's amazing how quickly a 450 page book can read. I remember first seeing the synopsis for this book on NetGalley and thinking, "If only I would be so lucky to get this book!" Low and behold, here we are. The synopsis that grabbed my attention:It was like a nightmare, but there was no waking up. When the night began, Nora had two best friends and an embarrassingly storybook one true love. When it ended, she had nothing but blood on her hands and an echoing scream that stopped only when the tranquilizers pierced her veins and left her in the merciful dark.But the next morning, it was all still true: Chris was dead. His girlfriend Adriane, Nora's best friend, was catatonic. And Max, Nora's sweet, smart, soft-spoken Prince Charming, was gone. He was also—according to the police, according to her parents, according to everyone—a murderer.Desperate to prove his innocence, Nora follows the trail of blood, no matter where it leads. It ultimately brings her to the ancient streets of Prague, where she is drawn into a dark web of secret societies and shadowy conspirators, all driven by a mad desire to possess something that might not even exist. For buried in a centuries-old manuscript is the secret to ultimate knowledge and communion with the divine; it is said that he who controls the Lumen Dei controls the world. Unbeknownst to her, Nora now holds the crucial key to unlocking its secrets. Her night of blood is just one piece in a puzzle that spans continents and centuries. Solving it may be the only way she can save her own life.The book starts off with a brief page of the MC – Nora – Looking back on how everything started, giving us hints about what's to come. Now, I don't like it when books do that. It lays the groundwork for me to potentially over think things and continually flip back to that page as I'm reading along, going, "What did that say again?" Anyway, it's a small annoyance. One that can be easily overlooked. Things I liked:-Wasserman is a superb storyteller, and I could tell right off the bat, she'd done her research for this book. Man, was their detail and history and facts under everything she gave me! I was impressed, and intrigued. The writing was well done, with a fun, somewhat snarky air to the protag. The characters were stong and believable, the only one I wish I'd had more of was Chris, and he was the one who murdered. I immediately connected with the voice of the narrator, Nora. She was real and entirely human. Her reactions, thinking, actions. All were things a real person in that situation might do. -The delivery of backstory was delivered very smoothly and in a layered way. -A character's line about college. It made me laugh. Here it is: "Young man, no one else is going to tell you the truth, so allow me. Your education is a joke. Your classes lack quality and depth, and even if you were learning from the Athenian masters themselves, do you really think the world needs yet another term paper on the themes of proto-feminist rage in Macbeth or the structural causes of World War One? IT's busywork, son. It's a scam to trade your tuition money for a piece of paper that will let you go work at a bank or some company for the rest of your life, pretending that because you once read Plato, you can call yourself an educated man." (pg 70, ebook)-Coining the phrase "like at first sight"-There's a scene where Nora's sneaking around someplace and she's on the verge of getting caught. But she has her cell! Oh, no!!!!! Nora takes it out, covers the speaker and carefully turns the volume down. One point for team Thank-You-For-Addressing-The-Obvious!-Wasserman's great descriptions and imagery-There were parts (pg 323, ebook) that made me laugh outloudWhat I didn't Like-The cover. Besides the fact that it really has nothing to do with the story, t looks amateurish. Based on the cover alone, if I'd seen this in the bookstore, I would've thought: A) middle-grade novel B) Not a thriller. It makes me sad because looking at her website, at her books' other covers, it could be so much more. -There were some reactions that Nora had (though not many) I felt she compartmentalized too easily. I would have liked to have seen some emotion before she locked it away in an attempt to survive.-It was really long for a YA book. Yeah, I know, there are plenty of books out there that are around this length (Twilight, City of series, etc), but for the most part, those are drivel, mindless reads that you can just breeze by because there's not very much substance there (don't get mad, you know it's true. I still like those books, but it's true). --At times, Book of Blood almost felt too long. But I couldn't imagine it being any shorter. Everything that was said, needed to be said(okay, maybe she could've done without some of those philosophical monologues towards the end there. I skimmed those). Anyway, I breezed through 121 pages in just a couple of hours. -There were a couple of events (one in particular, page 169 ebook for those of you who've read the book, BUT DON'T SKIP AHEAD TO FIND OUT WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT IF YOU HAVEN'T GOTTEN THERE YET! You'll ruin a huge plot point and I don't want you crying to me because you ruined that part f the story. :)) that seemed to come out of the blue, and I was convinced there were pages missing from my ebook preparing me for what I'd just read.-The really long sentences-Now, as always, heed my advice and go forth and read this book yourself. As for me, it was a good investment of time and I'll be recommending it to friends for sure. Happy reading, my friends!http://RaeLynnFry.Blogspot.com
4787415182	On one hand, it's better than I expected. On the other, almost all of the characters were awful and almost everything that was supposed to be a plot twist was pretty obvious way before the reveal.
357872065	This book was different than I had expected. I came across it in my public library by accident, and I wouldn't have picked it up if it were for the way that everywhere I turned, I ended up seeing this book. It was like it loved to taunt me. It begged me to read it. I saw its reviews everywhere; on every profile I turned to, this book was always on their Recent Activity. The one thing amongst others that I found very exciting about this book is the way it kept referencing to the Voynich Manuscript -- which, I should say, is described and labeled as the most mysterious book in the world. I mean, wow! Doesn't that sound interesting to you? To read a book that deals with the interpretation of the VM? I love a good murder mystery (and it seems that's the way I'm headed with books now) along with some Latin translations. Seems very original. When Nora's best friend, Chris, is found dead in his home, her boyfriend Max becomes the prime suspect. He's left her a note for her to decode which leads them to the Prague, but Nora's mission to free Max from his accusations becomes something much more dangerous-- something that had been thought to be destroyed four hundred years ago was now in the midst of Chris's death.You see, when I picked up this book, even with the synopsis, I had no idea how this story was going to be carved out; and, to be truthful, the story at first was very confusing. Wasserman switches time; the novel starts out with Nora's feelings about Chris's death and then turns back around days before. It was like those movies that gave a little insight of the "right now" scene and then a caption props up saying, "24 hours earlier," which starts, as promised, 24 hours earlier and then passes through the "right now" scene and extends beyond that. A fresh example for that in mind is probably Fugitive at 17 on Lifetime Movie Network.Also, to say, the writing is very confusing; more often than not I found myself rereading passages many times. That's one of the reasons for such a delay on this book; I had to retrace my footsteps and make sure to keep in order what was going on. The book held scenes that were, at times, very unnecessary especially considering the letters she was translating into English from Latin-- which, by gosh, bored me to death, I swear. >___> But over time, as I read this book for nearly 6 days, on-and-off, the writing ended up getting familiar. I think most of the time I ended up skipping those indecipherable passages because Nora was just ... way too smart for a high school student. Her use of vocabulary is definitely advanced for her age. The plot started off a bit slow, but I found that I was too immersed to feel irritated by it. You see, there are lots and lots of foreshadowing before the actual story begins, and I felt a feeling of foreboding because of it. I'm normally patient-ish when concerning stories, but with this one I didn't feel impatient at all. The romance is basically kept to a minimum. I liked Max. I liked Eli. I liked Chris-- though we only get vague insights of him in the "24 hours before moment." But they were enough. Shockingly, I felt very disappointed and, well, shocked at one of the characters (if I tell you who you'll figure it out when you read the book.) I'll just say this: All these characters have tons of secrets, my friends. Tonsss.Adriane, I thought, was the kind of friend that most people find. The type that says she's your best friend, but when faced with danger sort of runs away, you know? Though she didn't physically do this, I think that's the message I ended up getting. She's a good and realistic (most YA novels have the supporting characters/best friends as "undeniably loyal" which isn't exactly the case; and I speak from experience) supporting character. I think Adriane was the most shocking character of all. Really didn't expect all the twists in turns, which, I think, were done beautifully. I like Eli. ♥ Conclusion: This book is good. Definitely give it a chance. I'm sure it'll start off slow, but it gets better-- and there may be times that you feel confused (I certainly did about the letters; most of the time I was like "whaaa?") but definitely worth it. I would say that because of the language and maturity, it may be for older YA audiences. Or, at least, very smart and intelligent readers who knows what "catatonic" means. (I didn't, I had to search it up OTL.)
286172630	** spoiler alert ** Professor Hoffpauer is obsessed with decoding the mysterious Voynich manuscript that supposedly explains how to create the Lumen Dei, a device that would let some communicate directly with God. Nora, her best friends Chris and Adriane and her boyfriend Max work with the professor doing Latin translations. Nora's job is to translate the letters of a girl from the late 1500s, Elizabeth, whose father may have cracked the Voynich manuscript. Soon Nora begins to realize that Elizabeth is the key to it all. But there are those who would stop at nothing to get this information, and they're ruthless. Now Chris is dead, Max is missing and Adriane is catatonic. With the help of mysterious Eli, Nora makes her way to Prague, where Elizabeth spent much of her life, and begins to put the pieces of the Lumen Dei together. Literally.It took a really long time to for this book to get where it was going, and it didn't have to. I think I would have liked this a lot better if there had been less...I'm not even completely sure. Just less. This did not have to be a 352-page book. Long before the end, I started skimming in places just to get through it. I was interested in what was happening, and uncovering all the clues and who was going to betray who, but it just took so long for anything of consequence to happen.There's a lot of drama and betrayal. Lots of betrayal. I understood very early on, way before Nora, who's suppose to be pretty smart, that Nora's life was mirroring Elizabeth's letters. This made sense since she was supposed to be Elizabeth reborn and that's why all the crazy people were after her. Nora was doomed to be betrayed by the one she loved! And so she was. Like, three separate times. Fool me once etc, etc. And then there was Eli. Eli, the random guy who randomly gets introduce after Chris is killed and starts following her around everywhere and follows her to Prague and oh, hmm, speaks Czech and WHY AREN'T YOU ASKING MORE QUESTIONS NORA?Something that confused me: how did Elizabeth get all her letters back to hide them in various places around Prague? She didn't know her brother (who she's writing all these letters to) had died until December, but all the letters Nora found hidden were dated before that. So she must have sent them. How did she get them back to hide so that we could all learn the story piece by painstaking piece? That was bothering me the whole time.Something else that confused me: If Eli's job was to make sure the pieces of the Lumen Dei never are found and put together than why did he want Nora to come to Prague? Why did he plant the letters to peak her interest? Why did he insinuate that it was his organizations money not the schools that allowed her to take the school trip that allowed her to slip away to Prague? Why wouldn't he have wanted to keep her as far away from Prague as possible? And above all WHY ARE ALL THESE KIDS SO STUPID THAT NO ONE EVER GOES TO THE POLICE? I know that's an important point in many books. If you go to the police, where's the story? But some books do much better jobs at creating legitimate reasons why they don't go to the police. I was not convinced in this case. It just felt like they were all being stupid.Something that pissed me off: of course the legend of the Golem of Prague was going to play a part. But the version of the legend that was told was like none I had ever heard before. In this book, the Golem was made by Rabbi Judah Loew to do menial tasks like mopping floors, until the Golem got out of control and almost destroyed the ghetto. What? Where the hell did Wasserman get that version from? The Golem was created for sacred tasks only, and that primarily was protecting the Jewish people from those that wanted to kill them for practicing their religion. If you'd like a very complete version of the story, you can read it on Google Books: Golem: Legends of the Ghetto of Prague by Chayim Block (the actual story starts on page 64). You can also just look at Wikipedia for the abridge version. It's way more accurate than The Book of Blood and Shadow. I know it's a very small piece of the story, but no one like their religion or culture to be misrepresented, even if it's a legend.While this isn't going on my top ten list of anything, it was a decent mystery. Definitely for older YA, as it's a bit dark.The Book of Blood and Shadow comes out April 10.
248365442	Review Courtesy of Dark Faerie TalesQuick & Dirty: A young adult Da Vinci Code that kept me turning pages as Nora tries to clear the name of Max, her fairy tale Prince Charming. This book has an understated beginning that fills the reader with tension because you know something major is just around the corner.Opening Sentence: I should probably start with the blood.The Review:There’s a difference between slow and cryptic. The very first sentence of this book is what keeps the first few sections (I hesitate to use the word chapters) from being boring. You read the first page and immediately know the middle of the book. Who’s dead, who’s not, but what you don’t know if why Nora is covered in blood. Why they were in a position to be killed in the first place. So Nora takes you back to her senior year of high school at Chapman Prep, to her broken family as they grieve for her dead brother Andy, and to the first time Nora learns about The Book.The Book (Always Said In Capitals) is the Voynich manuscript. Professor Hoffpauer, who was supposed to be the perfect teacher for her easy senior year, is obsessed with deciphering this manuscript as much as with keeping it a secret. Despite her expert skills in Latin translating–her father was once a professor in Latin–The Hoff puts her in charge of letters from Elizabeth Weston. The daughter of Edward Kelley, who may have authored The Book, her letters may not even be significant. These 400 year old letters are nearly as exciting as the manuscript, or as important. Nora is furious that the Hoff has written off her skills, and this is where her story really begins. Because the more Nora translates, the more parallels between Elizabeth’s life and her own become clear. Then the Hoff is attacked, has a stroke and the letters disappear along with the manuscript. Except for the one Nora had to take with her, couldn’t stop herself from taking. But if she tells Chris she has it, then it’s not so bad. Then it’s not a secret. Except telling Chris will set in motion a series of disastrous events that end with Chris brutally murdered, Adriane sitting in a pool of his blood and her boyfriend Max suspected of murder.I said this book starts out cryptic, but if cryptic begins to feel slow for you then around page 100 you will be rewarded. This book runs full-tilt until the very end, so quickly you barely have time to realize what hit you! There are so many twists and turns that even as an experienced reader and mystery lover I couldn’t see where it was going or what would happen next. The ending required a suspension of disbelief, but not so much that I was pulled from the story. In fact, it completely fit within the set up Wasserman’s mystery created, which relies on faith and archaic circumstances.The writing was wonderful. I absolutely loved the way the narration was broken up, the fact that the sections, in lieu of chapters, were all varied in length. Nora is an intelligent, perceptive teenager who has been thrust into a mystery that people have died trying to solve. Everything she said sounded put together and well thought out. Part of that, I think, comes from the first part of this book being a flashback–to the time before all the blood–but the sense of integrity in the writing continues beyond that.Notable Scene:“Why’d you do that?”Because I’d wanted to kiss someone. Because my two best friends were best friends with each other, a seamless unit who probably spent the majority of their time together waiting for me to go away. Because his eyes were brown in one light and green in another, magnetic in both. Because I’d worked a miracle–or maybe because I’d done so only by imagining I was someone else, someone intrepid and intense and long dead, and I wasn’t ready to go back to being me. “I don’t know.”He laughed. Now I wanted to kill him–then die.“That’s a terrible reason,” he said.“Yeah? You’ve got a better one?”He leaned forward. He cupped his hands around my face, one warm hand over each cheek. He kissed me.“Because I wanted to,” he said when he let go. “That would have sufficed.”FTC Advisory: Random House Children’s Books provided me with a copy of The Book of Blood and Shadow. No goody bags, sponsorships, “material connections,” or bribes were exchanged for my review.
227674836	I’m going to be honest. This is going to be a hard review to write. Not because I didn’t like the book – I LOVED IT – but because I’m so afraid of accidentally spoiling something. I didn’t read a single review before plunging into this book, and I can honestly say I was pleasantly shocked at the direction the novel took at times, throwing me for loop after loop. I respect and admire a book that can keep me guessing, and The Book of Blood and Shadow did just that.Robin Wasserman expertly weaves a beguiling tale, full of rich history and the menace of an unseen threat. It’s clear in the writing and in the story that the author did extensive research in preparation for this book, and she even discusses it briefly in the afterword. Though much of the story is based on actual events, much more is based on a fabled device that would allow the user to converse directly with God. The knowledge of the very existence of this mythical machine has put the lives of Nora – and her closest friends – in jeopardy.The first half of the story is set at a leisurely pace, carefully crafting the back-story for our characters, showing how well-developed their friendship was and how they were simply normal teenagers, working on an independent study project for school. The story may develop gradually at first but it never feels bogged down in the history of the study group, nor is it weighed down by the actual history of the subject matter being researched. The author balances each focus well, and the end result is a book shrouded in mystery and secret societies, every bit as intellectually stimulating as The Da Vinci Code , which it will almost inevitably be compared to.The second half of the book is set at a more rapid pace and really ups the ante for our heroine. Nora and what’s left of her friends – after a devastating blow from those who seek the contraption – are in mortal peril. At this point, I’m just going to say it: TRUST NO ONE. Even the hot cousin. Especially the hot cousin. It seems cliché to say that nothing and no one is as it seems, but in this story, there is not a truer sentiment.This book is not all dire situations and fleeing from crazy religious zealots, though. There’s a good bit of humor laced in there, with witty banter and a hilarious episode where two of the characters pretend to be engaged in order to gain access to an off-limits collection of astronomical manuscripts. There’s also the letters Nora translates from Latin that almost come to consume her in her search for answers. I very much enjoyed the correlation between Nora’s translations of Elizabeth’s letters and the situation Nora is currently faced with in the novel.There is some romance in the book, as well, but it took a back-seat to the real problem at hand, and I appreciate that no matter how the love story was going at any particular time, it never overshadowed the rest of the story. The only thing that could have done that would have been the setting. Prague became a character in its own right. With the author pouring such beautiful and vivid descriptions into the story, it was no trouble envisioning myself as Nora, searching for answers and pieces to a puzzle she didn’t even know existed.I’m not sure if this is slated to become a series. Though it’s over 400 pages long, I still had doubts that the author could wrap up the story before the book’s end. However, the ending was immensely satisfying and though left slightly open-ended, I would be content to leave things the way they are on the last page. Conversely, I wouldn’t be disappointed to learn that the author was continuing Nora’s story, either.This review can also be found at The Starry-Eyed Revue.
308198792	Read the complete and original review at Word SpelunkingMY REVIEW: I’m conflicted when it comes to Robin Wasserman’s The Book of Blood and Shadow. I really wanted to love this book more than I did, but that’s not to say that I didn’t find it an enjoyable and impressive read.High school senior Nora, along with her BFF Chris and Chris’ roommate Max, intern with an odd history professor obsessed with a mysterious and untranslatable book. Nora’s given the task of translating, from Latin to English, the letters of Elizabeth, a young poet who’s been dead for hundreds of years. Nora and Max fall in love and she starts to think that maybe something will go right in her life for once. But then the professor is attacked, Chris is murdered and Max disappears. Nora and Adriane’s (Chris’ girlfriend) journey to clear Max’s name takes them to Prague where they find themselves embroiled in a battle between two old societies and on the run for their lives.I’ve seen many people call The Book of Blood and Shadow a YA version of The Da Vinci Code and I agree. This book is full of intrigue, mystery, secret codes and ciphers, murder and ancient societies. Overall, Wasserman offers readers a captivating and well written story, but it’s not without its faults.The first hundred pages or so move quite slowly, but I didn’t mind this languid pace so much. I think Wasserman does a great job of building the story’s foundation in these first hundred pages, while also developing the characters. And when the plot does start to build and pick up, I found myself easily pulled into the mystery and suspense; I desperately NEEDED to know all the answers.And the intriguing mystery Wasserman has created is smart, enthralling and well developed. I don’t want to talk about the actual storyline too much because I’m afraid I’ll spoiler readers, but I will say that the story takes many twists and turns and will leave you thoughtful and with a racing heart. I’m very impressed with Wasserman’s ability to craft a truly thrilling and clever mystery. However, I was disappointed that I was able to predict quite of few of the revelations and character twists.Wasserman’s characters are well developed and original, but I think much of my confliction about this book comes from my inability to really connect with the main character, Nora. I like how smart, capable and realistic Nora is, but I never found myself truly invested in her as a character. I love a sarcastic character, but I found Nora’s acerbic sarcastic humor more annoying than entertaining. In fact, I think much of the humor in the book falls flat.Chris, Adriane and Max all have interesting qualities and play significant roles throughout the book, but as with Nora, I just didn’t love them. Let’s just say that if Nora, Chris, Adriane and Max were real people, I probably wouldn’t hang out with them. One character I did love though is Eli! I found him very endearing, likable and a swoon-worthy guy.Wasserman has a habit of writing very long, winded sentences in this book; like paragraph sized sentences. And there are also some very long, winded descriptions as well. After a while I found this windedness to be very repetitive and made the story drag. Honestly, near the end of the book, I found myself merely skimming the long passages.I was a little disappointed by the ending and found it a bit lacking, I suppose. But I did like that most of the questions and mysteries were answered and solved.MY FINAL THOUGHTS: In The Book of Blood and Shadow author Robin Wasserman creates an intriguing, clever story that mystery lovers will enjoy getting caught up in. I found some of the characters hard to connect with and the winded writing style to be a bit too much at times, but overall I liked this book.
275879389	I picked it up because: The title really jumped out to me. Just enough vague creepiness in it to interest me, I guess. And now that I've read it, I don't think the author could have picked a better name for the book.What I liked: I'll probably sound cliched saying this—I know I've heard it myself numerous times—but this is was a book that had my full attention from the very first sentence. I don't think there's any other reaction when you're started off with a sentence like this:"I should probably start with the blood." Possibly my favorite opening line—ever. It definitely started the book off with the creepiness I was looking for. And the book keeps the horrific aspect up throughout the story; not through means of ghosts or other haunting creatures, but through real life horrors: death, betrayal, distrust, loss. This isn't any old lighthearted read.The Book of Shadow and Blood has a good deal of history woven into the plot, and unlike most of the stuff I learn in school, these are really interesting topics. The Voynich Manuscript for one: a book completely written in unknown language and script that not a single expert in dozens of years of trying has been able to crack. I actually stopped reading the book at parts so I could google things brought up in the story.I have to comment on the characters, too—because this is an intensely complex cast we're given. I can't remember the last time I judged a character from the first scene they appeared in, and didn't have them follow my expectations for them the rest of the book. Max, Adriane, Chris, Eli: I never knew who was out to get Nora and who was watching her back. It was insanely infuriating, and, I would suspect, completely the reaction the author was looking for. You're along with Nora for the ride; and you're freakishly paranoid that everyone is out to get you right along with her.But don't take this review to mean it's all drama and paranoia. Because this book falls into multiple categories, dipping into both action and adventure, a healthy dose of comedy and a romantic aspect that isn't sappy, but as much of a mystery as the rest of the book. It's got intrigue; it's got history. There's literally something in it for everyone. What I didn't like: I don't think the length fit the book. Which isn't the same as disliking when books are long, because a good portion of my favorite books are those five-hundred page (and up) mammoths, as my poor bookshelf would tell you. I just felt that, for this book specifically, it would've been better if it had lost a couple of pages.There was always stuff going on, so it's not that it got boring, but it got to the point where I was ready for answers. I was ready for the plot to reach its climax, for the characters to make it to the grand finale...and I still had had over two-hundred pages to go. So it wasn't that I got bored as much as that I got impatient for the conclusion and how it would all work out in the end.The bottom line: Read this book if you've got a long afternoon ahead of you and you need something that's going to keep you busy. Read it if you're one of those historical fanatics that loves seeing the past incorporated into the present. Read it if you want to be transported to a whole new situation, or if you're dying for some fiction with a good amount of kidnapping, life-threatening situations, murders, and kick-ass ninja skills. I could go on listing the reasons, but I think it's safe to just say that this is a book that should be added to your TBR list, and one you probably won't forget.
350372949	BRILLIANT! MAGNIFICENT! I cannot begin to write a review that would do justice to "The Book of Blood and Shadow." For the sake of full disclosure, I did win this book in a giveaway; but, that does not diminish the accuracy of my sentiments for this book. It is beautifully written, with one emotionally powerful scene after another, the characters are intelligent and bewitching, and the plot is spellbinding. However, what I loved the most is how Robin Wasserman managed to show the amazing strength within women of the past who had been relegated into obscurity by men who foolishly did not know any better.At the age of fifteen, Nora Kane experienced the tragedy of her brother's death and the resulting deaths of his girlfriend while he was driving recklessly. She became the girl whose brother was a murderer but who also died. Her parents run adrift in their sorrow that they do not even realize how they have ostracized their only remaining child. Her father loses his job and falls into drink while the mother falls into pills.Nora has always excelled at Latin, thanks to the lessons she endured three times a week. However, this will prove to be her saving grace for a while when she is able to secure a scholarship at a private academy. There she meets Chris, a former friend of her brother and who is destined to be her best friend. Chris doesn't pry and doesn't reveal that Nora is not the only child she claims to be. He keeps her secret and provides a safehaven for her. She also is befriended by his girlfriend, Adriane and his roommate, Max. The gregarious Chris talks Nora and the gang into helping transcribing the ancient papers of a book. Even though Nora's Latin far surpasses those of the group, the professor refuses to allow this lowly girl the right to do this important job. So, Nora is given the task to transcribe thirty letters of Elizabeth Weston, the daughter of the author of the book as well as a poet in her own right. Little do these friend realize but these translations will be the death of someon or maybe all of them.While the transcription of the lettters seems to hold more promise than transcribing the book, the professor suddenly has a stroke. He requests only visits from Nora where he warns her that she is in great danger. Can he be believed or has the stroke affected his mental capabilities. Then, the unthinkable happens. The book and letters are stolen leaving her best friend, Chris dead in a pool of blood and his girlfriend, Adriane in a mental fog. The police believe that Max, Nora's boyfriend is the killer and sets about trying to find the missing boy. Nora once again is sucked into an emotional vacuum but is determined to find the secret to Chris' murder and the Lumen Dei. When the Dean requests that Nora assist Chris' cousin, Eli in cleaning out Chris' dormroom, they a few pages of the missing letters. Nora is determined to find Max and prove his innocence; so, she, Adriane and Eli set out on a journey to Prague the city fabled to be founded by a witch. This will not be a tourist trip but a deadly descent into mystery, intrigue, conspiracy, betrayal and hell.I cannot begin to tell you how glorious this book is. I am an English teacher and already trying to find a way to finance 30 copies of this book to use with our AP students. A part of this story is historical fiction while the rest is just plain magical. Ms. Wasserman, I was previously a fan of your "Skinned Trilogy," however, you have totally outdone yourself with this book. I am in awe of your writing. It was a beautiful journey that left me breathless! Do not hesitate, pick up this book. The thrill begins on page 1.
2904617460	I should probably start with the blood -Me, as a screw up protagonistIt took... 100 pages... to catch up... with the blurb... but nothing happened leading up to it... well that was pointless... and then.... nothing happened after that... this is so boring.... and......... DNF'd Trigger and Content Warnings: previous loss of loved one, emotional neglect, death, loss of loved one, anti migrant views, kidnapping, negative body comments, use of the word cr*zy [up to page 248]
332367543	Not that there'll be any big surprise in this, but what's about to come is in no way a review, but merely a response to a book that was just the kind of book I wanted at the time I read it. And it entertained me hugely, Da Vinci Code comparisons notwithstanding. (Notwithstanding, maybe, but they do shame me a bit!) (Also, I can't say anything sensible about the comparisons, as I've never read The Da Vinci Code, which is entirely due to the inestimable Hirondelle, back before she *was* Hirondelle.) (Before Goodreads, in other words.)My knowledge of the history of Prague is negligible at best, and that also goes for Roger Bacon, Edward Kelly and other real life figures of the time when the Voynich manuscript was supposedly written. I didn't know anything about the Voynich manuscript before googling to see if was or wasn't real, and I think finding a bit out about it and how much of a mystery it really is, was probably what helped me enjoy The Book of Blood and Shadow so much.* I did get a sense from the book and the author's note at the end, that the author herself loved history and literary/historic puzzles, which I liked.Because, it must be admitted - I didn't always much like Nora, or her friends, though I could usually feel for Nora, at least. Chris seemed a nice enough character, but I knew he was going to wind up dead, so his being likeable didn't help much. I did totally get Nora's less-than-admirable reactions sometimes - her feelings that Ariadne's going catatonic had just left Nora coping with everything alone - her lack of emotional attachment to her parents - and her inability to know when to give up, when to dig in her heels. Predictably, I did like Eli, pretty much all the way through, suspension-of-disbelief-required & all. But WHO CAN BE TRUSTED? And, while I didn't always care for Nora's disdainful dismissal of religious faith, the book did show how she could have come to feel that way [although (view spoiler)[seriously - brother died after driving drunk - that's God's fault, how? I allowed her some slack on that because of people's admitted stupidity in using the "it was God's will" line to those who have just lost loved ones. (hide spoiler)]], and showed others' perspective on belief as well. The ending of the book didn't really close down any way of thinking about the possibilities, and anyway, I read this more along the lines of Raiders of the Lost Ark or even The Mummy than serious religious exploration!Even the writing style was decidedly more convoluted than it needed to be at times, and yet I read on happily. I appreciate its not ending on a cliffhanger, or having trilogy at a minimum screaming at you from the end, but I'd be quite happy to read more. * Just look at how pretty - and sometimes weird - the manuscript is: some images
348211666	REVIEW ALSO ON: http://bibliomantics.com/2012/05/04/b......Generally when I finish I book I have a concrete feeling about it- whether good or bad. However, after finishing The Book of Blood and Shadow, I have no distinct feelings for it either way. I didn’t love, it, I didn’t hate it. Although I most certainly preferred the first half to the second half. The historical mystery held no appeal for me, nor did the the religious aspects, which I’ve never found to hold my attention. Thankfully the prose was laden with gems like: “… Adrienne calling someone a chemistry nerd was the pot calling the kettle Fe4CSi” and “It’s busywork, son. It’s a scam to trade your tuition money for a piece of paper… Pretending that because you once read Plato, you can call yourself an educated man.”This is not my first Robin Wasserman novel, but my fourth, the first three being from the Skinned trilogy, and I enjoyed the first and last book of that immensely. Sure it kept me up at night every time I read it crying over my own mortality, but it was good. Even though for some reason the publisher has now changed the name to the Cold Awakening trilogy and retitled Skinned, Crashed, and Wired to Frozen, Shattered, and Torn. Whatever. What Wasserman does and does well is her gorgeous prose, intriguing story lines, and inclusion of horror elements, all of which I greatly appreciated in all her novels, this one included.What lost me was the plot, which follows an ancient mystery around a machine that can talk to God, secretly sought out by a nefarious society known as the Lumen Dei. The parallel story of main character Nora to Elizabeth Jane Weston whose letters and clues she translates held little to no fascination for me, and I found myself zoning out while reading Elizabeth’s parts. The opposite can be said of Nora’s sections, and I found the clipped prose and short chapters refreshing, only serving to heighten the suspense and horror up to Chris’ murder.After finding out that the Voynich manuscript was real, I was slightly more interested in the story, but not much here was nonfiction. The manuscript does exist, and it is a source of fascination to many scholars, containing references to plant species that don’t even exist and is so far undecipherable. This makes Nora’s cracking of it so implausible. Years and years of scholars looking through this manuscript and after only a few months a high school senior is able to crack the code and follow it through the streets of Prague, in heavily guarded areas in places she has never seen before. Highly unlikely.All my nitpicking about not liking religious elements or the Da Vinci Code second half of the novel, Wasserman is a skilled writer and story teller. I loved the horrific elements of the plot, not to mention all the fun twists and turns. Sadly, the story just wasn’t one that held my interest. Part of me hopes this is a stand alone book, but I highly doubt that.
280642115	Review originally posted on Bibliophilia, PleaseIn Robin Wasserman's latest young adult novel, readers are swept away into a story of intrigue, thrills, murder, betrayal, alchemy, and conspiracy five hundred years in the making. The Book of Blood and Shadow is a history-laden treasure hunt unlike anything in its genre.When Nora Kane's older brother Andy died, she had to slip away into a new life. Her parents were closed off, and high school would never be the same again. She changed schools and made all new friends who knew nothing of her past life (for the most part). Unfortunately for her, things fell apart once again after she, her boyfriend, and best friend began to crack the code in the ancient Voynich manuscript. As her life is turned upside down, she is forced to go halfway across the world in search of truths about the distant past, her friends, and what really happened the night that her best friend was murdered.There are few things that I love more than an author who does a lot of research. The amount of work Wasserman spent studying the settings, plot points, and historical references in the book really shines through the pages. The historical truths have been beautifully fictionalized, and my enjoyment of it overall surpassed that of Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code. I also appreciate Wasserman detailing what is real and what is used in a purely imaginary fashion in the Afterward of the book. It made me a very happy quasi-historian.I generally love action-packed, twisty thrillers with history filler, but I hit a few bumps while reading this. I had a hard time getting into the first person narration, which usually is not a problem for me. It may have had something to do with the huge influx of background information at the beginning of the novel. However, once I got into the swing of things, I was sucked into the story. The biggest problem that I had with the book was the majority of the second third of it. With all of the historical and geographical references and five hundred years old letters written by Elizabeth Weston, the plot dragged. It broke up the pacing of the story so much that I became disconnected from the characters both from the present, as well as the past. Fear not, because once again, the story picked right back up.Overall, The Book of Blood and Shadow was an exciting, fun read that kept me guessing until the very end. I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed National Treasure, The Da Vinci Code, and other conspiracy, treasure hunt thrillers.To satisfy FTC guidelines, I am disclosing that I received the book for free from the publisher in exchange for an honest review. It has in no way affected the outcome.
259752179	It all started as a way to get out of class, a supervised independent study program where Nora, her best friend Chris, and his roommate Max would assist a professor in translating letters written in Latin. Chris and Max would translate the letters of Edward Kelley, an alchemist, while the letters written by his daughter, Elizabeth Weston, were relegated to Nora. Their project, to find any clues to help decode the Voynich manuscript, was not one that any of the friends took serious—until it became too late. They found something, something more important than they could know—something that others will stop at nothing to learn. And that something has left Chris dead, his girlfriend Adriane catatonic, and Max inexplicably gone. Even though all the clues seem to point to Max’s guilt, Nora is convinced that he can’t be the one responsible, but her hunt to clear his name quickly turns into a dark and sinister journey toward the truth, a truth of which she has only began to scratch the surface with Elizabeth Weston’s translated letters. Before she knows it, she becomes caught up in a centuries-old struggle for and against the most ultimate power known to man: the Lumen Dei. The Book of Blood and Shadow is reminiscent of a couple of similar adult novels I trudged through years ago, specifically The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown and The Historian by Elizabeth Kostova. Wasserman’s newest novel has all the long buried secrets, coded messages, historical searches that span continents, sinister organizations, and a quest for something of the utmost religious and scientific significance that these aforementioned books, especially the first, have in spades. And Wasserman pulls this off remarkably well. Despite a somewhat confusing beginning, I quickly found myself completely enthralled with this story and completely reluctant to set it aside, even for sleep. The plot has a neat balance of action sequences, peeks into history via translated notes and letters, as well as more internal struggles with grief and trust that make the entire story so suspenseful. Additionally, Wasserman transitions between these different sections very smoothly, which helps make the story as a whole feel more coherent. I was definitely wowed by this novel. Though The Book of Blood and Shadow is a little daunting in length, I urge readers to not let that detail deter them, because this book if definitely a worthy time investment. The Book of Blood and Shadow appeals to both readers who did and did not like The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown, as well as to fans of A Northern Light by Jennifer Donnelly and Wrapped by Jennifer Bradbury.reposted from http://thebookmuncher.blogspot.com
335802881	What I Liked: 1) I loved the way it began. "I guess I should start with the blood." Robin Wasserman certainly knows how to grip you and pull you in from the very beginning. The first few chapters served as a great hook. 2) The mystery. I loved all the coded messages and the traveling, and how it was almost like a big scavenger hunt. There were all these great clues to follow, but first they had to figure out what each one meant. That was really an interesting twist. 3) Nora. She was smart, intuitive, and compassionate. She was an easy main character to like. It's always refreshing to see an MC with a quick mind who is eager to use it. 4) The setting. I loved the descriptive setting of this book, especially the parts that were set in Prague. I've never been though it's on my list of top five places to visit. Even though I haven't been there, the fantastic writing and descriptions I was easily able to picture everything and see the events in my mind as they were unfolding.What I Didn't Like: 1) Parts of the story were hard to follow. I don't know if it was because there were things I was unfamiliar with, or maybe the writing style just didn't jive with me. It's hard for me to get into a book when the story keeps getting interrupted because I don't understand or can't comprehend something. It was a little discouraging as a reader to need to re-read things, pulling myself out of the flow of the story. 2) The main guys. Max and Eli. I wanted to like them both. And there are times when you do, when you are almost there. But there is just something holding me back from liking them. Part of it was suspicion. That was good, because you are supposed to be suspicious of them. But there was just something missing from their development that kept the reader for completely falling for them.Overall thoughts: The Book of Blood and Shadow comes with an onslaught of information that can easily leave a reader confused and discouraged. It is smart and witty, but left a little to be desired from me as the reader. I needed more connection with the characters other than Nora, and something more succinct explanations of what all was happening. There is a great hook in the beginning, but I generally found that the rest of the story did not hold up. Readers will enjoy following along with Nora as she decodes messages and follows clues to answer the murder of her friend Chris and attempt to clear her boyfriend's name. There were definitely parts that intrigued me, but overall it just wasn't for me.See this and other reviews at Fuzzy.Coffee.Books!
174779887	Sometimes I love beginning a book without knowing anything about it, not even having read its synopsis first. Then after reading the first few pages filled with amazing and captivating writing is such a great feeling that just makes you want more and to not stop reading at all, you become addicted and that’s what The Book of Blood and Shadow was like to me. This novel was amazing to me, I loved it from the beginning and I cannot express that enough into words. It was reminiscent of The Da Vinci Code, but much more fast paced in my opinion and much more appealing to a wider range of readers. I hadn’t read anything like this in a long time. It was filled with danger and mystery, love and heartbreak, history which I loved the most, some fictional but based on real characters from the past. It was so cleverly written, with many twists and unpredictability that you have to pay really close attention as you read so you won’t miss a clue. There’s just so much you have to take in, so much information about the big mystery and so many suspicious characters that you just don’t know who to trust or what to believe in. I love that it’s like you’re reading two stories at once, we get to know about Elizabeth Weston, a character from the past that is telling her story through letters that Nora is translating. Her story is just so fascinating that you keep hoping that Nora will go back to those letters and search for more clues. I pretty much loved both sides, the snippets we got from Elizabeth’s life and Nora’s present which becomes freaking crazy all of a sudden which sends her on an dangerous quest that seems impossible to solve and ends up causing a lot of heartbreak for her. I honestly felt terrible for Nora towards the end of the book. I was just as confused as she was and afraid of pretty much everyone, as the book goes along all the characters become so suspicious that you don’t know what to expect next.The plot is just so smart and intriguing, filled with murder, history and deception that just makes you want to flip the pages as fast as you can to find out the truth. I haven’t read any of Robin Wasserman’s books before but if they’re all as great as this one you can bet I will become a fan. I loved everything about this one and how it kept me at the edge of my seat, how it had my mind going and thinking about every possibility, and how it broke my heart and got me freaking out at times. It was everything I needed and like nothing I had read before, I could not get enough of it. Loved it!
1340544972	This is a book for a lover of murder, mystery, and secrecy. The events in Robin Wasserman's, The Book of Blood and Shadow, make you feel as if you have to look around each corner, because someone is about to jump at you with a knife saying they hope you have said your good-byes. Nora Kane is caught up in the web of murder and fantastical, impossible reality as she works tirelessly with her friends Chris, Max, and Adriane, Chris's girlfriend, to decode the mysterious letters regarding a 16th-century alchemist, Edward Kelley. But, with the unexpected and horrific murder of her best friend Chris, and the disappearance of her boyfriend, Max, Nora finds herself with Chris's cousin, Eli, and her friend Adriane, in Prague, in a desperate search to find Max before the police. As they search for Max, the trio discover the Lumen Dei which they find to be a real, powerful old world machine. While on their epic and dangerous search, Nora learns that not everyone is who they say they are, and how easy it is to believe lies about love, safety, and comfort. I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and couldn't put it down until it was finished. Each chapter brought about new information and clues as to who murdered Chris, and why, and the identity of people Nora thought she knew, but discovers she knows nothing. The plot is very well thought out, and gives the reader the sense they are watching, participating, and getting involved in actively figuring out the mystery on their own. I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a good mystery, with the perfect combination of murder, fantasy, religion, and secret societies.
237949779	I should probably start with the blood.I knew the minute I read the opening line that I was going to enjoy this book. I’d heard it was very reminiscent of “The DaVinci Code”, which I thought was descent, but I wasn’t obsessed with it like a lot of people were. I felt this book was more readable and I liked the characters, and the incredible story, a lot more.Every character is one the reader can easily get close to. Nora, the MC is logical, funny and smart. She just seemed very real to me. Her voice really captured me and held onto me throughout the entire book. I was also especially attached to the other characters — Max, Chris, Eli and Adrianne. They were all just as engaging as Nora, and I really felt something for them — both good and bad.The twists and turns in this book will keep you guessing the entire time. I loved that I never knew who I could trust, and the fact that I was so invested in these characters made me want to trust all of them.This book is captivating, heartbreaking, pulse-pounding and a true roller coaster ride. The plot is very complex and requires you to hold a lot of information as you read. Once the pieces start dropping into place, though, you can’t stop.There were a few spots where the book seemed to drag, but it is well worth your time to stick with it. Ms. Wasserman is a truly gifted novelist and I look forward to reading more from her.I’ll definitely be buying a hard copy of this one. It’s just too good not to own.
844197529	This is the best book I've read all year (and I know that its February and that's not saying much, but it is ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I HAVE EVER READ!) The plot was so intricately woven I could've cried with awe. And the characters, where could I even begin! When I finished the book and my mind wandered back to the beginning, i realized that it was all THERE. It was there and subtly slapping me in the face! HOW COULD I HAVE NOT KNOWN??Brief summary: Nora and a group of other people find letters written by one Elizabeth Weston to her brother sometime in the 1500's. They work to translate them from their latin origin and find this mysterious society of alchemists and renaissance mechanics that have built a device called the Lumen Die that could literally revolutionize the world and kill a very big bunch of people.I think if I say anymore I would be revealing too much, so I'll stop.BUT I HIGHLY, SO VERY HIGHLY, RECOMMEND THIS BOOK.I stayed up till 5 am to finish this and then long after because I could still not get over what I had just read and what had just happened. I was in shock. I was traumatized. I want more books to be like this!
205015076	I am not sure where it even begin with this book. I guess I should start off by saying that it had be hooked from the very first page, it drew me in and refused to let go. In fact, I think I only set it down a few times throughout the day and only when it was necessary.This was was full of mystery and so many twists and turns it kept you constantly on the edge of your seat wondering what was going to happen next. This book was just amazing, very unlike anything else that I have read this year.Wasserman is an amazing writer. This book was full of what ifs and unimaginable possibilities. It reminded me a lot of The Da Vinci Code. I really didn't want it to end yet I couldn't wait to get to the end to find out what happened. It was a weird internal struggle for me, do I savor it and stretch the awesomeness out or do I rush to the end because I have to know everything?This was a great read and I will be picking up all of Wasserman's books and reading them. She is a very talented author and I can't wait to see what she comes out with next.
264001002	This is an action-packed and gripping story that involves a present-day murder, a historical mystery, and secret societies, kind of like The Da Vinci Code. The main characters discover some 400 year old clues and one of them dies and another goes missing as a result, sending the other two to Prague to find their missing friend and perhaps solve the mystery too. The author does a great job of making the reader want to know more about the characters, more about their predicament, and more about what happened 400 years ago. The plot has plenty of twists and turns. And just who can Nora trust--if anybody?I think the book could benefit from some judicious editing and proofreading. There were some sentences in there that went on way too long and there were some misused words, misplaced commas, and the like.Basically, though, I couldn't put it down!
322131941	Reviewed at http://www.mandikayereads.com/archive...The Book of Blood and Shadow is one part DaVinci Code and one part National Treasure with a teensy bit of A Discovery of Witches thrown in. In other words – I LOVED IT.This was my first book by Robin Wasserman, but it most definitely will not be my last.I found myself completely caught up in Nora’s translation of Elizabeth’s letters – I wanted to know this woman and know her secrets. I wanted to know why Nora was important to not one, but two, secret societies.I don’t want to give away any of these secrets – they are yours to find for yourself.The characters all found places in my heart – which really sucked, to be honest, because you never really knew who you could trust.Bottom line – you should really read this book.
870463062	I should probably start with the blood ... Does that opening line not just totally suck you in? I'm really afraid to give a short synopsis of this book without giving away major parts of the plot, so I'll leave it at this: The Book of Blood and Shadow is about murder, secret societies that were formed around 400 years ago, encrypted messages, betrayal, and a search for truth that lands Nora, a gifted high school student, in the city of Prague, fearing for her life and the lives of her friends.This book way surpassed my expectations. I was expecting another entertaining, but simple YA read, but I got so much more. This book reminded me a lot of The Da Vinci Code and The Historian, which is a big compliment coming from me.
314542247	Actual rating: 3.5One must have a willing suspension of disbelief as well as patience for slow starting stories when reading this book. The author tends to become too wordy at times ; but if you held on you would find the middle to the end of the book was worth the read. That being said, I actually enjoyed reading it.This was being touted as a YA version of the Da Vinci Code and rightfully so. I would have given this a higher rating had I not read the Da Vinci Code. It seems that all the elements : conspiracy theory, secret societies, religious fanatics and the occasional crazed monk in Da Vinci Code were also in BoBS. Hence, I kind of expected how the end unfolded.(more to follow just my initial thoughts after reading the book)
302652493	This is one of those deep books that makes you wonder if there really are crazy people out there! I really liked this book. I loved Eli! He was the sane one of the bunch...and some comic relief at times as well! Nora is one of those characters that you can't help but cheer for...she is dedicated and isn't going to stop until she gets answers. I started off really liking Max...I can't tell you why I don't like him, just that he is a jerk! There were so many twists and turns in this book, that sometimes it was hard to remember what you just found out. THe ending was breathtaking, sad, and yet...I still have more questions! A great read! Lots of cool information and lots of history too!
326731638	I bought this book 3 times. Yes. Three. Not by accident either. First I got the ebook, then I decided I needed to simultaneously listen to it while running, so I downloaded the audio version. Then I made the mistake of going to the bookstore. The physical book was so pretty--deckled pages!--that I had to, had to, buy it again. So, was it worth it? A resounding absolutely. People have been calling it a YA Da Vinci Code and I'd agree except it's well written. Actually, I'd call it a mixture of The Secret History and the Da Vinci Code. Literate. Exotic. I enjoyed the history, the mystery and the drama. Twists and turns galore, with some expected and some unexpected. Throughly enjoyed it.
326091527	High school girl hoping for scholarship to nearby prep school -- expert in translating Latin -- makes new bffs -- one is killed. And so, the search for the killer is on! It takes her and friends, plus a new mysterious buddy to the heart of Prague -- searching for clues from the middle ages, and from now. Beautifully written, you feel like you're "there" every step of the way...and kept me unsure of bad/good guys most of the way through! Loved it. Waiting for more from this talented author.
1369549170	1.5 stars. This book was such a chore to get through. By the time it finally got to the adventure-thriller part (over a hundred pages in!) I'd lost nearly all interest in finding out where the story would go. Way too many ~twists involving the characters and what they wanted and whose side they were on. So disappointing.
324407520	DNF. I started this nearly 7 months ago and I still haven't finished it. It's taking so long for anything to happen. I keep finding better books to spend my time on. Maybe someday I'll give it another go.
