4325070552	i’m writing this fresh off the back of dragging myself over the finish line of the ordeal of this fucking book, finally being able to put my finger on it. don’t read if this book is your blood and soul, i guess, (which from the looks of it, it seems to be for around half of dark academia booktwt). spoilers towards the end. here’s atlas six's problem: none of the characters are as cool as the writer clearly thinks they are, and the book is no where near as compelling as it so desperately wants to be. none of the characters are interesting. most of them are assholes (and not even in a fun way, in a “when will this damn POV chapter end” way, except there’s no relief when it does end because you turn the page and the next chapter is the POV of a character who’s equally annoying.) and it’s not about things being pretentious - i pretty much expected that - it’s about it being pretentious without any substance. it’s just obnoxious. “Neither. Beauty is nothing. Nothing anyone sees is real; only how they perceive it.” [this was in the middle of a conversation sparked by how her boobs aren’t symmetrical or something. the conversation continues as if she didn’t say this.]“Funny how that worked; the innocent fragility of being human.”“A flaw of humanity. The compulsion to be unique, which is at war with the desire to belong to a single identifiable sameness.”“It’s not the meaning. Everyone wants a purpose, but there is no purpose. There is only alive and not alive.”“Did they hurt you?”“Who?”“Everyone.”“Yes.”“What are we celebrating?”“Our fragile mortality,” Tristan said. “The inevitability that we will descend into chaos and dust.”they talk like this. All. The. Fucking. Time. there’s a line where Tristan begs Callum to act like a person and stop acting like everything’s a performance, and he put into words more beautifully than i ever could the problem—except it’s not just Callum’s problem, it’s the problem in every character. and literally half the time when someone says something #deep or #edgy or #thoughtful it literally.. it literally doesn’t mean anything. like it doesn’t mean anything in the context of the conversation or even wider themes it’s just like. a pretty looking sentence. you know those dramatic lines that people love to put in edits? this book's writing style is just all of the dramatic lines that people love to put in edits, for 300 pages. callum’s POV is particularly atrocious when it comes to this. imagine any of these things being said to you irl. you’d laugh at them! perhaps it’d be more bearable if there was any self awareness about this, but nine times out of ten it’s played dead straight. i cannot take this seriously. i rolled my eyes so many times that my extraocuoar muscles are legitimately strained. i want so badly to see all of these characters to go to british state school so they can get bullied. dear god. on top of that, none of these people like each other. i suspect the point was that they were meant to distrust each other and work for their own ambitions—but i literally don’t know what half those ambitions are beyond a superficial “power” and “something that interests me”. they “use” and “mistrust” and “betray” each other in this really surface level way too, in which there’s no actual cleverness to anything. take for example someone will be being used by someone else: in their pov they’ll think “they’re using me”, in that character’s pov they’ll think “i am using this other person” and then you’ll have character C who comes up to them and says “you know they’re using you, right?”. with tristan and callum i counted this happening like three or four times OK WE GET IT CALLUM IS USING HIM! can we please move on to the plot 😭 oh yeah, what the fuck are half of them there for?? like not just a vague power or ambition, like substantially.the only plot i can fumble together is a vague “bachelor but for murder” that isn’t even followed through on. but alongside there being no plot, there’s also simultaneously no downtime. there are six pov characters and all of them have (at most) 1 semi-developed dynamic with any other member of the six when they don’t even spend this book doing anything else. what excuse is there for them to *not* have developed dynamics (or in some cases, personalities)? the author is a pantser and has favourites and it clearly shows. she definitely does not give a shit about Reina (you cannot fucking tell me she does anything of any importance or even remotely matters) and adores Parisa and desperately wants the reader to think she’s interesting and cool, shown by how Parisa is constantly shoved down our throat in every other scene no matter whose POV it is and somehow is still no more interesting at the end than she is at the start. “It terrifies me how easily I can watch it corrupt.” apparently libby’s on a corruption arc and Blake has spoken about her specifically wanting to accomplish not writing good characters, so i’m looking forward to one of the only half decent characters becoming just as insufferable as the rest of them. i’m definitely not saying that writing characters who aren’t good people can’t be interesting or compelling—honestly i’d like to see more of it—but there’s a difference between that and just writing a bunch of characters who are pretentious, boring assholes with no compelling or likeable qualities and writing character who i give a shit reading about. further, i'm really tired of these really generic corruption arcs that have no real kick behind them. the appeal of a corruption arc for me is being able to see the seemingly rational steps a character (at least from their point of view) makes down the staircase, not them being a good person -> having a half-hearted moral dilemma for a few scenes -> is now willing to kill and do anything for an undefined and frankly generic “power”. how boring. how uncompelling.what baffles me the most is that the main thing i’d seen about this book before starting was the shipping discourse. guys, there’s nothing to ship. none of these fuckers like each other, and not even in an interesting way. nico and libby had a rivalry at the start, had no further development for most of the book until the very end. tristan and libby fucked and he was kind of into her more than he was parisa after that, i guess. parisa finds dalton and tristan vaguely interesting but her own insufferability ruins any of her dynamics and callum is clingy when it comes to tristan. nico spends a third of his chapters literally dreaming about some half-mermaid (?) gideon fucker with mommy issues, and they have a whole side plot and backstory that even at the end of the book doesn’t seem to tie into anything else. that’s it for ships, and i don’t get how people are invested in any of these dynamics in the slightest. they barely exist. you know the audio that’s like “didn’t like the Godfather. just didn’t like it. it insists upon itself”. that is this book. it is so heavy-handed and it’s clear Blake had a lot of interesting ideas for characters, but was completely unable to show it outside of literally telling us. repeatedly. without any ounce of subtly at alli get this review probably comes off as really harsh and as though i hated the book. i didn’t. i just got to the 80% mark and found myself thinking “why am i reading this? when will this ordeal be fucking over? when can i get the satisfaction from one of these losers getting murdered?” and didn’t want to dnf before reaching the exciting ending some people talked about. it was not exciting. sorry. it turns out the big beating heart of the question that fuels the plot of this very intellectual book is “murder bad? 🤔” wow. much to think about. much intellectual rigour. if i’m being generous, i could say “murder for power bad? 🤔” but that’s even less of a question lmao. “She had more power now than she had ever possessed.” WHAT POWER, LIBBY?? WHAT? i would love to see it. i’ve seen you create one tiny black hole over the course of 200 pages, in a world where that doesn’t seem to be too extraordinary. i personally wouldn’t care to consider murder over that but YMMV i guess. (side note: we’re told repeatedly that libby is mega powerful and could do so much if she just had confidence by basically every character. really cool, sounds interesting. once again, would have loved to have seen it.) and no one even got murdered! 😭 you can’t beat me over the head with this moral dilemma for a good half of the book and answer it by having one of your characters be kidnapped and sent to some fucking time vault or whatever at the last minute. (spoilers for the atlas complex following.) (view spoiler)[so apparently fans are unhappy with the way the last book ended, largely for a lot of the same reasons i didn't like the first book but also because all the ships (ie i think the main, if not only, reason most readers are invested in this series at all) ended in complete dumpster fires one way or another. i think it perfectly illustrates the problem with writing that is too up its own arse and readers that are dragged along by the promise of endgame ships like it's a carrot on a stick and winning their fan wars to ignore the hundreds of red flags littered throughout the series that this was all set-up, no pay off. no one wins here. while i've respected and do respect that people still like this series because some of the things i don't like about it are exactly what they do like about it, i would say if you're someone who was mixed on the first book and even slightly uncertain about whether to keep going--don't. from my friends who liked this instalment and read the rest, well, it looks disappointing. to say the least. (hide spoiler)]jesus christ. what a waste of fucking time.
3890134841	"The problem with knowledge, is its inexhaustible craving. The more of it you have, the less you feel you know." ✧･ﾟ: *✧･ﾟ:* *:･ﾟ✧*:･ﾟ✧As much as I love books that are so incredible that they rid my brain of any coherent thoughts, they make it very hard to write a review that makes sense to anyone but myself. So let me just make that clear right now; this book was amazing and you should definitely read it even if my review isn’t up to par. ⇢The Plot For some reason… everything and nothing simultaneously happened in this book. I feel like my mind was stretched and spread repeatedly, over and over, but if you asked me to explain what really happened in this book I would completely blank. Basically, magical competition, six competitors, dark academia, books, and a ton of lies to unravel. That’s all I can give you. (Note: That's all I can give you in the best way. As in you need to go experience this magnificence for yourself.) “The moral of this story is:Beware the man who faces you unarmed.If in his eyes you are not the target, then you can be sure you are the weapon.” What I can say is that the writing was magical. It was poetry-like prose, but not complicated enough to deter me from wanting to continue. You know how sometimes the writing is just too much? Olivie Blake’s was just enough. ⇢The Characters “And so where there had once been six were now, irreversibly, one.” The reason the plot was so hard to describe is because this book was definitely character-focused. My favourite. Obviously, as I mentioned, we follow six magical people, but the best part about this book is that they’re such well-written characters that when I think of them it’s not the magic that comes to mind first. It’s their struggles, their relationships, and just the way they see life. Each of the characters are so distinct, but without being one-dimensional, which I think is a really hard thing to achieve, especially in the course of one sole book. Basically, if you like complex characters who you can’t decide if you like or hate because they’re so multifaceted, read this book. Please. “Libby was a hero. Parisa was a villain. Their goals were overarching, appositional. Nico and Reina were so impartial and self-interested as to be wholly negligible. Tristan was a soldier. He would follow wherever he was most persuasively led.It was Callum who was an assassin. It was the same as a soldier, but when he worked, he worked alone.” ⇢Libby I think Libby might be the most relatable character for me. She seems the most… human? Her motivations were definitely the most relatable and I think that a lot of teenagers especially can relate to feeling inadequate. I’m writing this review spoiler-free because I really want to convince people to read this book, but if you read it already, please freak out with me over the ending. “Men, conceptually, are canceled,” Libby said to her knees. “This Society? Founded by men, I guarantee it. A man’s idea. Totally male.” She pursed her lips. “Theoretically, men are a disaster. As a concept, I unequivocally reject them.” ⇢Nico Can’t start with Libby and not talk about Nico next. Those two… I don’t know what they are, but they’re something. Nico’s character is still very mysterious in my opinion. Obviously, we know some of his motivations but I think we still have a lot to learn when it comes to his potential and true feelings. “They were binary stars, trapped in each other’s gravitational field and easily diminished without the other’s opposing force.” ⇢Reina Reina… another mystery. See what I mean about not being able to talk about what happened in this book? I definitely think there’s more to come for the Reina/Nico/Libby power trio, and I can’t wait to learn more about Reina’s skills. I think she’s one of my favourite characters though, unproblematic queen. ⇢Parisa Ugh, how do you casually discuss perfection? Okay, in all seriousness, Parisa both scares me and intrigues me. There are just so many layers to her that it constantly feels like she’s winning even when all evidence points to the opposite? All in all, I am simultaneously terrified and obsessed. ⇢Tristan Tristan might be the most complicated character in this book, and that’s saying something. We know so much about him because emotionally he seems like an open book but then there’s just so much we don’t know?? HOW?? All I know is that this man needs therapy from someone who isn’t named Callum. Seek help, Tristan. ⇢Callum Ugh, I saved the worst for last, because no thanks. I don’t know, I do feel bad for Callum but also, not one bit. I feel like the only time he seems mildly real is when he’s with Tristan, and even then, I just don’t trust him. I’m assuming in the next book the characters are going to have to work together more so maybe we’ll see him finally open up? “Now Callum’s mistake was obvious: he had thought to prove himself strong, but nobody wanted strength. Not like his. Strength was for machines and monsters; the others could not relate to faultlessness or perfection. Humans wanted humanity, and that meant he would have to show evidence of weakness.” ✧･ﾟ: *✧･ﾟ:* *:･ﾟ✧*:･ﾟ✧My The Atlas Six Playlist: my the atlas six playlist my carrd ❦
3919712031	EDIT: I know that this book is getting a traditional release, but I don’t know if any of the following has been changed. Please note that I’ve only read the original self-published version! Where do I even start with this review...I heard from everyone how amazing this book is. BookTok, Tumblr, YouTube, Twitter...it was very much advertised as a dark academia fantasy, which is right in the intersection of Thing I Love. If you look at the reviews on Goodreads, you have to scroll down a bit to find anything less than an outpouring of love. So you can imagine my disappoint when this book did not meet that mark. I'm staring at my keyboard trying to figure out where this book went wrong, and how to summarize it succinctly. The themes of this book include the pursuit of knowledge (and whether that's a good thing or a bad thing), interconnectedness between the characters, and ~time~ as a vaguely whimsical science. The only theme we actually see payoff on is the flexibility of time, and the end of the book drew that together in a way I found surprisingly interesting. With everything else, The Atlas Six fell completely flat.We know almost nothing about everything in this book. The characters are lackluster, and the author has clear favorites. That's fine to an extent, but I as the reader shouldn't know that, especially if the plot hinges on them being on relatively equal footing. Reina was vastly underserviced by the plot. These characters aren't given any room to breathe and just let the audience get a feel for them: there's no downtime where we can watch them interact naturally and play off of one another so that we can get a better feel for their personalities and relationships. This made one of the other themes feel completely irrelevant. How am I supposed to believe these characters are interconnected, "deeply inextricable," as the book puts it, if it's constantly emphasized that they go weeks without interacting? There's only one group scene in this book iirc, and it's at the very beginning, and for the most part, summarized retrospectively. "Room to breathe" is another thing we just don't get here. For a book that's so interested in building atmosphere within dialogue, it has a difficult time with that in other areas. I don't know anything about the building these characters are staying in, from what the rooms look like to where they have their dinners. The magic system is equally spartan. There's the occasional tidbit thrown around about physics, and energy, and the different types and strengths of medeians, but we receive no other information. All characters seemingly have control over specific domains of magic - sure - but can also wave a hand and produce other kinds of spells. There is no explanation given for this, and we see so little of the "class time" that the book places a lot of symbolic emphasis on that nothing else is elucidated. Even the idea of "balance" is unclear, and the first plot twist is given away on the back of the book. We never even know why a character must die! The idea is simply talked around until the subject gets changed, without a direct answer. The biggest problem here, by far, is the lack of an editor. On some level, I can understand this, given the book is self-published. Yet many of the errors were so glaring that they interfered with me being able to understand the book. If a fight scene is going on, and characters are being shot at, that's something that needs to be introduced and reacted to from the beginning of the scene, not near the end as a "by the way they've been avoiding bullets this whole time." At one point, we're told a character can shapeshift, but the previous scenes they were supposed to have been shifted in make no reference to this fact, and even have the character refer to their body as having hands and palms when they're supposed to be a bird. This concept, by the way, is given no relevance besides the fact that it is supposed to be a "twist." It is never used again. An editor would also have cut way, way down on the pretentious philosophizing in this book. Look. I love a little pretentious back-and-forth. But it has to be /earned/. It has to be relevant and have meaning. Asking questions that go unanswered is not a shortcut to making your characters sound smart. Half of the time, the conversations were essentially groups of non-sequiturs, where Callum would ask something, then reply to himself with a seemingly random question or response, while Tristan quietly reacted. For every 1 line that introduced something new, there were 3 that felt edgy and lifted from other media. It made reading more than 20 pages at a time an absolute chore, because I was tired of abstract musings. Honestly, 2 stars is generous. This is primarily a 1.5 read, with the end being a little more interesting. It's not unsalvageable, but The Atlas Six needs a serious overhaul with a very studious editor. On a more positive note, the book itself was gorgeous, especially the illustrations. I did like the relationship between Parisa and Dalton. Reina is wonderful and deserves much more. I'm so glad to be done
4432674449	I never feel more Me than when I have an unpopular opinion on a beloved bestseller.It's how I made my millions in the first place - and by millions, I mean "tricked people into paying attention to me, only to trap them in a vicious content-creation cycle of semi-funny reviews and a lot more lit fic about annoying women than originally planned."So sometimes, I like to return to my roots, and pick up whatever young adult fantasy behemoth starring a green-eyed and/or British and/or misunderstood assholey teen boy is stealing the hearts of the public.I didn't intend to dislike this one, though. I promise. First of all, it's not even YA, and secondly, it's DARK ACADEMIA. I pray at the altar of Donna Tartt. I gamely agreed to pretend its annoying copycat little sibling was in the same hemisphere. I have a countdown to the Ninth House sequel tattooed on my lower back.And yes, as it turns out, tattoos are not a good countdown strategy. You live and learn.But this...Guys, this wasn't good.And I waited for the alleged "good version." I wanted to read this back when the self-pub original was the only one available, and yet I took the time to allow Tor to edit the ever-living bejesus out of it.But here we are even still.As this progressed I could not believe how much of it was conversations between a different duo. Just this guy and this guy. This girl and this guy (who are sleeping together). This girl and this guy (who might want to sleep together? And did once I think?) This guy and this guy (who have kind of a sexual tension as well). This girl and this guy (who are constantly "engaging in enemies to lovers banter," except the banter in question is two annoying high-school-theater-kid brats shrieking I HATE YOU at each other and if I am not even rewarded with an enemies to lovers arc, I am DNFing this series with so much personal anguish it will cause a ripple effect in global politics).In other words, I kept waiting for the plot to happen, and yet as I noted down at increasing intervals - 28%, 42%, 54%, 66% - IT NEVER ARRIVED.On top of that, I hated the writing so much it ruined my other current reads (of which there were approximately 11 - I was in one of those I'M GOING TO LIVE FOREVER anti-slumps wherein all you can do is read). It's the kind of goofy faux-intellectual pretentious drivel - to speak honestly, and don't yell at me for simply stating my truth like the non-sinner I am - that makes me lose my mind.For some reason I feel like I'll end up reading the sequel. But that's probably the past version of me who made her name in unpopular opinions talking.Bottom line: What were you guys even talking about!------------currently-reading updatesneed dark academia injected into my veins rn------------tbr reviewi can't stop thinking about this book and i haven't even read it yet
3916203333	4.5 ⭐️ shiiiit ok i get the hype now. i fucking loved this book. these characters are all literally gay for one another and i ate that shit up, left no crumbs. i’m attracted to every single one of these whores. these characters have a chokehold on me. had my gorilla grip throbbing. had my ovaries shaking. making me all nervous and giddy inside, i felt like i was on crack. the writing? the plot? the characters develop? flawless. A bitch felt smart reading this 💅🏽 these are my new comfort characters. there isn’t one person i didn’t vibe with in this book.libby? fucking adore this introverted queen. i saw so much of myself in her. cant wait for her corruption arc in book 2!!nico? deserves the world and me parisa? bad bitch and she fucking knows it tristen? so down to earth guy and i’m in love callum? smart ass mf, he’s so mysterious i love himreina? gives me asexual vibes. plant mother that takes shit from NO ONE !! here are my ships libby and nico (or nico and gideon; i wouldn’t be mad about it)parisa and dalton (i’m telling y’all that Atlas mf is mind controlling our home boy and parisa is gonna save him!)tristen and callum (they connect so well and just GET each other) my only problem with this book was that is was super slow and didn’t take until more than half way through to get my undivided attention. nonetheless it was a literary masterpiece!!!
4319629310	Generous 3 stars - This was a frustrating book to read. Ever had an itch on your back that you can't scratch? That's how reading this book feels like. I love magical schools and libraries so this should have been a hit for me. The characters are incredibly unlikeable (not in a good way), too much telling vs showing and the story was all over the place.The magic was interesting and there was a lot of potential so hopefully now that it has been picked up by a publishing company, the rest of the series will improve.I might continue the series if the reviews are positive for book 2 but I'm not in a rush.
4368717280	My professional thoughts:Lethally smart. Filled with a cast of brilliantly realized characters, each entangled with one another in torturously delicious ways, The Atlas Six will grip you by the throat and refuse to let go. Olivie Blake is a mind-blowing talent. My unprofessional thoughts:NICOLIBBY NATION WHERE DO I SIGN MY REGISTRATION FORM
4380238739	all i gotta say is zoo wee mama
4046852198	I have no idea what just happened?
4083335063	DNF @ p.100After giving The Atlas Six another try, I realized that I can't make it beyond the 100 pages, that I can't stand any of the characters, that I won't read it (or enjoy it, for the case) and there are tons of actually good books out there waiting for me to discover them.I'm glad I don't have Tiktok anymore (because I spend more time there than actually reading and nope) to see the hype and try to read it, lmao.This book goes straight to my big hype, big lie shelf.Look, I really tried. The premise was promising so I said, "why not? I haven't read many good dark academia books" and precisely that was a mistake.The characters were unbearable, arrogant and flat. Yes, you heard/read me. They don't have personality beyond of try to impress everybody with... what? I didn't actually see what they can do. They're just a bunch of brat and stupid kids who think they can have whatever they want and not face the consequences.I spoiled myself the book and it was... Great. I mean, I didn't know what to expect but the so called spoilers made me dislike this book more than the beginning. On my previous updates, I kinda forced myself to like it??? Callum and Parisa were assholes to me; I hated them since the very first moment. Libby was an annoying bitch and Nico was fine but even he was annoying to me.If you liked this book, good 4 u. I couldn't even force myself to read it anymore. I can't give it another try when I know I dislike the characters and don't give a shit about them. I don't care for them. At all. This book it is supposed to be character driven, right? Well, you might say that in the first 100 pages it's impossible to know it, but you can. 100 pages of pure suffering and hell was what I was given with TAS.I read a review of someone saying "Read Vicious for a well character driven book" and hell yes. Vicious is way better.In any case, I won't give this book another try. No, I'm not sorry. I'm tired, haha.
4310069269	this book is everything ‘a deadly education’ wishes it could be.so much more interesting world-building, more compelling characters, and really more relatable writing. and while im not sure i quite understand all the undying hype for this book, it definitely is fun to read. the magic system is really cool. it has a very tangible scientific element that i feel heightens the ‘dark academia’ genre. and the characters are so fascinatingly flawed. not particularly likeable, but very complex. if i could change anything to make this more enjoyable for me personally, it would probably be the pacing. man, is this slow, with not a whole lot happening. its 100% character-driven and i tend to like my books more focused on plot. but putting that aside, this is a very detailed novel with really intriguing layers and narration.↠ 3.5 stars
4475659697	Whoop whoop! Alexandrian society welcomes you with open arms! Dark academia, magical librarians, and extra-talented rivalries are fighting tooth and nail to eliminate each other for securing wealth, power, and prestige beyond their wildest dreams! Yes! Yes! And yes! Such a dreamy combination for satisfying my dark soul! I am all in! The plot gave me so much hope, and I felt the five-star, highly appraised review was already on its way! But… I hate the sentences starting with that word because you may sense something negative will come out sooner. And actually, it’s about to come out! Well, it’s so hard for me to say it: I’m just ripping the Band-Aid off quickly: I didn’t enjoy it as much as I anticipated. Firstly, it was really slow! Not slow burn, slow enough to get you outrageously impatient. Mostly, there has been less action. As a biggest fan of Novik Scholomence, I was expecting to connect with at least some of the characters. But most of them truly irritated me. I think Callum and Tristian were the less annoying ones to root for. I slowly learned to tolerate them.The use of magic and the entire execution of the story have still so much potential. High competition between magicians/ medians, their extraordinary differentiated abilities, hidden libraries, and the big secrets surrounded around the entire Alexandrian society were the alluring parts of the book, giving you the best vibes of a dark academia thriller that kept me going. So I ignored my hesitations about very punchable characters and a solid writing style and reached the finish line.Well, I think I’m still intrigued to read the next book. I’m still hopeful that all those will evolve and reach their better versions of themselves in the sequels. So I’m not going to pray for the lightning strike to take their lives! I’m giving three solid stars because of the alluring magic element and its intriguing execution. I was expecting to enjoy it more! I’m still rooting for the sequels! Special thanks to NetGalley and Macmillan-Tor / Forge for sharing the digital arc of one of the most anticipated books of 2022 in exchange for my honest thoughts.
3917369974	The Atlas Six is pretentious and luxurious and self-indulgent. I can’t decide if I love it or if I would rather throw it across the room.Somehow I read 380-something pages of this book and I still have no idea what it’s about. The characters wander around a library and go to classes that are described with as little detail as possible, they get into some fights for reasons that are not explained, there’s a conflict involving murder that doesn’t seem to have a cause or effect. They wave their hands around and do some hand-wavey pseudoscience slash magic that fluctuates when it’s convenient. There’s a subplot about the overpopulation of the world that I thought would be interesting but was abandoned quickly. There’s another subplot about the perception of time and how we as individuals experience the passage through time differently, but so little page space was spent on it that it faded to the background. The plot got lost in the words.Nico and Libby—angsty platonic soulmates—make a literal wormhole. And then they just use it to get snacks. Can’t we learn about that, please? Maybe then I’ll understand what this vague *waves hand* power struggle is about. There are so many discussions about what the characters are willing to do for the power that the Library of Alexandria gives them… but what power? Show me. Yes, there are old books. But that’s all we’re given. Maybe I’m an outlier here, but I would not kill someone just to have access to some old books. Use Google Scholar like a regular person.None of the characters have a reason to be in Alexandria, and every time this is brought up, they dodge the issue with philosophical rhetorical questions that go nowhere. I can get behind a burning quest for knowledge, but I expect it to be given more substance and thought. Personally, if some random man approached me with ominous promises of some unidentified great power, I would not abandon my life to follow him. Have none of these characters been chased by cultists in the streets before? That is shady. Libby only accepted the offer because Nico did. Callum, Tristan, and Parisa are there because they were bored. Reina wanted to read books. (Which is valid, but still.) Besides, the author clearly didn’t care about Reina, and as a consequence, I also forgot she existed most of the time. What does she do? She’s basically a phone charger. Every one of her point of view chapters felt like an afterthought. “Oh, right! There are six main characters!” I need to give a valid reason why I ended up loving this book even though it was objectively questionable: I can be a really pretentious fan of overblown fustian language and philosophy that runs around in circles and adds nothing to the plot. I like words that sound pretty. I like sentences that give me chills, even if they mean nothing. I am a simple person. Collecting shiny things brings me joy. Yes, that is a shard of a beer bottle, but it’s pretty. This book is a broken beer bottle. #deepYou know when you read something so agonizing and torturous and angst-riddled in exactly the right way and it brings you physical pain? That is it. That is this book. Everyone is manipulating everyone else and their hazy morality wasn’t subtle at all, but I still almost screamed multiple times. The chemistry between all of the characters was a sinful indulgence.The Atlas Six is enchanting and frustrating and addictive and pointless, but I still really, really enjoyed it somehow. I’m actually tempted to give it five stars because it played with my heart and that’s all I really want. But that decreases the value of the five-star rating, so I’ll settle on something more realistic: 3 unhealthy junk food stars A uniquely upsetting curse, really, how little he knew how to exist when she wasn’t there.
4179036281	Review from 2022:Obsessed, 10/10, immaculate, stunning, incredible, amazing, one of a kind Review from 2021: It’s been so long since a book won me over from the very first paragraph, but this book was exactly that experience for me. The writing style of this just screams dark academia - kind of pretentious while also being presented as if completely standard, because of course to these characters, it is. I loved that you see these characters be ambitious, learn about their magic, and all the way through hold a wariness that wasn’t dropped for a second. It made for such a gritty story, and definitely an interesting one when it comes to picking sides.I will say that the ending for me - literally the final two or three chapters - fell a little bit flat for me, largely because I saw the key aspect of it coming. And this, in itself, was due to the one thing I would fault about this book - a repetition when it came to the character descriptions. At first I only saw this as slightly tedious in the way certain traits kept being brought back up, but then I clocked on to a phrase that kept being mentioned that made me suspicious, and was ultimately right. I’m not the sort to actively try and guess the way a story would go and quite often it all goes over my head, so I’m quite surprised I caught it quite so accurately in the end. That being said, it still made for a great story. I took far longer to read this one than I usually would, largely because I would put off reading it from not wanting it to end. I love a character driven story, and this is certainly it. It managed to feel intense even when not that much was happening, and the allure of the Alexandrian society was definitely felt. I can’t wait to see where this series goes, and to read more from these characters because wow, it’s messy in the best and most entertaining way.
4174281921	(yes, i brought a book to disney lmaooo)oh, the last half of this truly cast a spell on me and i could not stop reading !! i am begging for book two immediately !! (and happy valentines day to you all) :]Blog | Instagram | Youtube | Ko-fi | Spotify | Twitch
3847618263	AMAZING. BRILLIANT. SENSATIONAL.it's like getting my mind fucked, but in the BEST WAY POSSIBLE. i felt the RUSH as i was reading this. the philosophical discussions, the physics theories, the dialogue and character dynamics are well-executed. dare i say it's never been done before? hmm, yes actually. IT'S NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE. the characters are compelling and intriguing. their personalities are distinct from each other and they all have their own unique way of thinking. never did i question whose POV i was reading because they are all so different from each other. i love every character interaction because any and every combination of characters produce an interesting dynamic, which i am a sucker for. the psychology of each character, the depth of characterization.. oh boy do they have a Lot to unpack, and i am hERE for it!!i enjoyed reading this so much (even though there's "no plot") because of the fabulous writing and the impressive execution of the story. this was just stunning, exceptional, and utterly mind-blowing. i can't even begin to imagine the amount of research that went into this. physics is one subject i do not enjoy but the concepts were laid out so concisely, i'm starting to think i don't like physics because of my professors. anyway, the themes were on point. the vibes immaculate. the writing excellent. the characters amazing. the execution brilliant. i have 316 highlights and 72 bookmarked pages by the end of it, and i don't usually highlight and bookmark so that's saying something! this is easily one of my favorites books of the year. simply incredible. i love what olivie blake is doing here.to oversimplify the book, it's a diverse cast in academia and they're ALL sexy, smart, powerful, and gay! they have philosophical discussions, psycho-analyzing sessions, and sex (while questioning their morality and ethics, of course). drinks on the house! we're all having a wonderful time here, me especially. oh my god i just love this book so much!! also, the illustrations are beautiful. this book is OUTSTANDING. i love it here!
4051943775	reading this book felt like watching the little Mario Kart characters run into each other repeatedly
4259675659	Okay so when I read this book I had just finished school and was waiting for my uni's admission and my routine used to be so messed up like I used to sleep at 4 a.m but thanks to the extremely dry and boring nature of this book I ended up sleeping at 10 p.m with a massive headache but it also helped me not get scolded by my mother for a month 😝Thank you Olivie Blake for fixing my routine. 🥰
4143056267	** spoiler alert ** If this could be zero stars it would be. This book reeks of pretentiousness and a superiority complex. This is a book that has zero understanding about how to make characters or a plot compelling. I mean, plot is a very generous word, what happened in this book? Almost nothing. The book is about the characters right? Alright lets get to them:The characters are 6 insufferable or boring people who do nothing but argue and judge each other for 300+ pages and experience no character growth. None of these characters were even slightly compelling, nor were they believable (No one actually talks like that Olivie). They were also incredibly stupid for being shocked at the fact that the illuminati was asking them to kill someone. I can’t say that their decisions made no sense because they all had so little personality besides being insufferable and boring that I believed they might as well do anything the author dictated. I felt nothing over their supposed anguish over having to kill someone or having to pick someone to kill because all of them were, at best, lukewarm about each other and, at worst, hated each other. I found myself wishing they all just died instead of just one.The society itself is the most weakly constructed setting I’ve ever read both plot wise and description wise. I got no sense of the exclusivity of intellectual nature of this group. All their groundbreaking research was brushed over as if nothing happened yet the reader was expected to act as if these were earth shattering developments. Scenes written within the society were written and treated no differently than scenes in the mundane world, which made the society itself feel boring and unimportant. The larger world was also terribly developed. So there’s magicians living alongside humans and this doesn’t influence history? All the same countries and politics that exist in our non magic world exist in their magic one?? How can that be? Have magicians never influenced the outcome of any war? Any social development? Anything to make their world different from ours? The magic system itself was pathetically underdeveloped. Magic might as well do anything and everything in this world and that made every slightly deadly situation feel boring because they were just going to magic ex machina their situation. Almost none of the rules of magic were properly explained to the audience.This book also tried to make numerous social justice points that almost all fell flat. Saying “men are trash” once every 50 pages isn’t feminism Olivie. This book seems to flip flop between acting like the society’s exclusivity is a good thing or a bad thing and all possible messages are muddled and lost in pretentious writing. If the point is that this sort of elitism is wrong then why are the characters mostly (positively) defined by how remarkable they are compared to others? Why are famous historical figures retconned to be medeians as if they could only be remarkable if they were born with magic?Smaller point: Nico is supposed to be from a rich Cuban family, not that he has Cuban ancestry, but that his family is currently situated in Cuba. Unless they’re friends of the Castro’s or the revolution never happened in this timeline, I highly doubt there’s a rich, capitalist investing family located in Cuba. Maybe Olivie Blake sees all latin american countries as interchangeable. This book was an insufferable, pretentious, boring, mind numbing, unfocused, disaster. I found myself wishing i could just throw it on to the street to stop reading it if I hadn’t paid full price for it. Read Six of Crows instead.Edit: Comment informed me that the author’s name is Olivie, I misspelled it as “Olivia” so I had to edit that.
3851962874	sorry i’m just sitting here thinking about how much i actually hated this book so i changed my rating to 2 LMAO. — i Wanted to like this book soooo bad bc it seemed to have so many things that i love and am interested in (the library of alexandria still existing helloooo??) but it just... i felt like it was never going to end. the magic system was confusing and i never really knew what was going on. it really only got going the last 20 pages which is annoying. the characters were v interesting but there were a few that when it was their chapters i knew i was gonna be bored. i probably will read the next one but god i hope it’s less long winded and maybe has a bit more world building
5204404696	I understand the appeal, but I just didn't mesh well with this one. The positives: I loved the vibes and chill plot. Outside of that, I wasn't a huge fan of the characterization, the lack of world building, and the overall story structure. I fully feel like this was a, it's me! i'm the problem! situation. lol
3825740336	one of the sexiest flawed group of people i‘ve ever read about
4198298010	December 2022⭐️4.5Why have I read this 3 times in 1 year???Hear me out, this book takes 100 pages to get into. It lacks world building, atmosphere and a magic foundation. But I care NOT. I think the characters and their interactions are fantastic. The physical reading experience is far more enjoyable than the audio in my opinion. Mainly because the narrators come across far younger and more immature than the dialogue actually depicts the characters. Now that's not to say that this reads as adult. It doesn't. I know that's how it's marketed and most of the cast are meant to be late 20's and early 30's. In what universe? They read early to mid 20's at most. But, again, I loved it.I see every flaw of this book. I had a live show discussing this and there were plenty of very rational flaws bought up about this book. I agree with all of them. But, somehow, I still loved it.I'm a character girly. And the more I read and reread this book, the most invested I got in the characters and forgiving of their flaws. So, maybe I liked it so much because of how far I went down the rabbit hole. But I will be continuing with the series and pre-ordering the 3rd book.November 2022⭐️4.5I'm not even shitting you when I say I'm about to reread this book AGAIN to further annotate and dissect.I really enjoy these characters and I'm not ready to leave their world.March 2022⭐4.5The hype is real. I loved it.I had a similar reading experience with Six of Crows. With the first read, I'm testing the waters to see how interested I'm going to be and if there's a possibility for characters to connect with me on a deeper level. I felt that with this book. Now, I need to reread it to really dive into it and enjoy myself.The two things I need in a 4 or 5 star book is intriguing plot and interesting characters. This was serving both. There definitely are several things I didn't understand at all. Like the mermaid and the guy in Nico's head. Like. huh? But that's what my second read through will help with.
4176606995	Good game, well played. Una sofisticata ruffianata per gli amanti del genere accademie magiche, società segrete e delitti (che nel caso specifico sono più tentati omicidi). La trama è incasellata perfettamente nella cornice e nell'estetica del fantasy academy (tutto ciò che vi aspettereste leggendo la sinossi), tant'è che l'autrice fa pochissimi sforzi nella descrizione del sistema magico e, in generale, del contesto e del mondo narrativo. Sebbene possa dare fastidio ai lettori più pignoli, è un modo intelligente di usare gli stereotipi. Fa risparmiare tempo al lettore che può dedicare le sue energie a divorare la portata principale: i personaggi. Sono i loro punti di vista a guidare la storia, poco spazio per il resto (anche se certe svolte narrative stridono talmente tanto che puoi sentirle implorare per qualche riga in più di spiegazione). Sei ritratti singoli che nel corso del romanzo si uniscono, l'inquadratura si allarga e ci restituisce l'immagine sfocata di un gruppo di medeians (non semplici magicians) con talenti magici non semplicissimi da gestire, una moralità porosa, grande inclinazione per le battute di spirito e il sarcasmo, poca propensione per l'affetto e la fiducia. In qualche modo dovranno collaborare per andare oltre i limiti della conoscenza, fare nuove scoperte, cambiare per sempre l'immagine del mondo. Quello che viene promesso loro dalla società segreta che li ha reclutati è: potere, informazioni, influenza e un addestramento adeguato per diventare dei pionieri, non soltanto entrare nei ranghi dell'elite magica mondiale. Vi sembra tutto molto vago? Sì, e lo rimarrà. L'ambizione di questi personaggi rimane fumosa, non ben direzionata. Così come il modo in cui usano la magia è sfuggente. L'autrice preferisce concentrarsi sulle dinamiche del gruppo: i dissapori, la complementarietà dei loro poteri, i meccanismi di attacco e difesa che la psiche mette in campo quando si trova davanti l'ignoto. Quello che a livello narrativo risulta traballante e spesso prevedibile, è controbilanciato da una scrittura conturbante che se non persuade del tutto dal punto di vista logico, comunque ti convince a rimanere per scoprire i trucchi che stanno dietro le illusioni della magia o semplicemente per averne un assaggio. Una ruffianata, quindi. Ma che si assapora con grande diletto.
4061131598	dnf @ 41%Do not ask me what happened in that 41% I do not have a clue.For anyone that wants to read it: this is basically six of crows if the crows had magical powers, hated each other and if their aesthetic was dark academia. {previous review}sounds like dollar store six of crows?
4467214876	2023:lo releí y sigo sin entender nada JAJAJA.2022:3.5que acaba de pasar?que acabo de leer?me sentí ~desafiada~ leyendo este libro porque es muy científico y no estoy dada pa esas cosas jajajajaja honestamente aún no proceso el libro. no sé nada.
5361744167	'they were binary stars, trapped in each other's gravitational field and easily diminished without the other's opposing force.' never read this sorry excuse of a book. i can't tell u how many repetitions are in here, how pretentious the writing and the characters are, how spoiled and full of themselves they are. the plot is non-existent and i'm not even being dramatic- absolutely not a thing happens. this is not even fantasy this is a brain tumor. they all hate each other and that's the plot- them finding new ways to hate each other. not one single cute bond. not one redeeming factor in this book. nico and libby had the greatest potential, the missed opportunity hurts my soul. she set him on fire when they first met? the a1 banter? i cry 'a uniquely upsetting curse, really, how little he knew how to exist when she wasn't there.' libby was so two-faced. with nico she was confident and had a brain. with the others, its like its a whole different character, cus her brain? empty.anytime she was mentioned the words annoying and dangerous followed. she's the annoying one in the group because she asks questions, like she's genuinely confused cus as she should be? this society came to recruit them and told them no information- she’s so so very dangerous. why? idk. what has she done? not a thing except a small black hole THAT NICO HELPED HER WITH. i don't even wanna get started on the threesome. they got her drunk, parisa was tryna convince her that sex doesnt have to be meaningful and it could be fun, she kissed her without permission and then when libby wasn't convinced still, parisa told tristan to kiss her and convince her and she was convinced. she cheated on her man who is worried about her waiting for her at home parisa and her entire personality being a whore and dangerously beautiful. i'm saying anytime she was mentioned or when she was talking- it was about sex and how she can manipulate everyone bc she's so pretty.... can u diecallum, i don't hate anyone in this book as much as i hate him. even hating them all combined doesn't compare. spoiled and pretentious? he's the definition. i legit skipped all his dialogue and his 70 page chapters because u could not pay me enough. do ik his power after 580 pages? nopenico was living in his own world with the dreams and mermaids idek the correlation. reina was the most irrelevant character. she was supposed to be one of the main characters but we barely get her pov and when we do it's the most irrelevant. tristan i dont even wanna talk about him- he fked parisa and libby and now suddenly cares about them esp after hating libby for 90% of this book........ them being shocked they have to kill someone in their group is beyond comical, do u bitches hate each other or not? wtf is ezra's part in all this? i cba or paid enough to go back and read the 800 pages towards the end. also libby hating him cus he worries about her...what.. thats ur man.. id be worried if he didnt babes. olivie needs to pay me for having to go through 580 pages of pure atrocious hideous garbage. this book was so bad, i skipped dialogue. i skipped the last chapter which contained 600 pages of nothing. all those pages and was there character growth? did ANYTHING happen? L O L
4280466946	1. I need the sequel right now2. I think this may get 5 stars upon reread.In the Atlas Six, we are following six powerful young people who are brought together by Atlas Blakely, caretaker of the Alexandrian society, an exclusive society responsible for the safekeeping of the world's lost knowledge.Each of the Six have a unique magical ability that sets them apart from other medians and enter the society knowing that only 5 of them will make it to initiation. Knowing one of them must be eliminated before the end of the year, distrust blossoms, but they must work together if they want to succeed.I loved so much about this, the writing style perfectly encapsulated the pretentious atmosphere needed for a good dark academia story. The narrative is multi-perspective, following six unreliable narrators that I was suspicious of throughout the entire 380 pages of this book.Throughout the middle, I felt like the pacing was a tad slow and this comes across as a mainly character-driven narrative until you're slapped in the face with some pretty clever reveals as the novel comes together.The reason this got 4 stars from me, as opposed to 5, is that I spent so much time, being suspicious of the characters and trying to puzzle out where the story was going to go - with little success. However, having now read all of the twists and reveals, I feel like this was actually pretty cleverly plotted in hindsight, giving this book great potential for a 5 star review on reread when I know where the story is going and can take the time to appreciate how the book gets there and all the little scattered tidbits of information.
4014777100	“Beware the man who faces you unarmed. If in his eyes you are not the target, then you can be sure you are the weapon.” General Review:THIS BOOK LEFT ME BREATHLESS AND GASPING FOR AIR. I'M LITERALLY SPEECHLESS. LET ME ATTEMPT TO SAY HOW MUCH I LOVE THIS BOOK. This is dark academia PERFECTION. And it's so well written too??? ROMANCE, MAGIC, SUSPENSE, ACTION, MYSTERY, IT'S ALL THERE!! My feelings were played with so damn much it’s a whole emotional roller coaster. It got so freakin intense to the point where my heart was beating so fast and I felt like sobbing. Every single character is so complex and flawed and POWERFUL. Being inside each of their heads is literally a wholly unique experience for every character. This feels like a Six of Crows and Hunger Games crossover (which I've been obsessed with both) SO I LOVED THIS. I started this not knowing it was a series and now I’m in distress BECAUSE I NEED TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS!!!!!Characters:Libby - ANXIETY BESTIEE. If overthinking was a job then Libby here could be a billionaire. She's so adorable though. DON'T LET THAT FOOL YOU THOUGH BECAUSE MISS IS VERY POWERFUL.Nico - HES SO HOT. This man is smart, rich, and a sweetheart with wit and sarcasm. So what I'm trying to say is that he is literal perfection. I would let him do unholy things to me. He can beat me up as training and I'd thank him.Parisa - SEXY, AMAZING, BRILLIANT, SHOWSTOPPING, POWERFUL. I had mixed feelings about her at first but she is just A QUEEN AND WE MUST ALL BOW DOWN TO HER.Callum - TERRIFYING. And not in a good way. I hate him so fucking much. He's just vile.Reina - BOOKWORM BESTIE. This bitch has been offered almost everything and she's refused and yet one man says "come with me there's a huge library" AND SHE DROPS EVERYTHING AND GOES. Which is exactly what I would do so I love her lol. She also doesn't give a shit about anything which is what I aspire to be.Tristan - HE NEEDS A HUG. He's basically just a ball of depression and daddy issues. I am also a ball of depression and daddy issues. So I want a hug from him AND I want to give him a hug. I JUST KNOW he's powerful AND HE NEEDS TO START REALIZING IT!!THINGS THAT ARE WHOLESOME AND BEAUTIFUL: Libby and Nico's friendship and how they protect each other. Parisa and Tristan's camaraderie. Nico and Reina's friendship. Tristan and Libby's support and friendship. PARISA AND DALTON
4264246022	everyone in this book is gay
3919711089	DNF @ pg.261 – 70%.The Atlas Six has an intriguing premise but there’s absolutely no plot and the characters don’t change or grow. Most of the tension and suspense is supposed to come from which one of the six chosen will be “eliminated” in the end, but my interest dwindled with every boring, repetitive chapter. Each character has a strong introduction followed by…nothing. No one has convincing motivations or a clear goal and there’s absolutely no character development. The focus is supposed to be on the internal conflicts and struggles of each character, but they’re not resolved or even explored with much depth. All they do is hate each other, occasionally think about science, and have sex. Seriously, I lost track of who had slept with who. Moving on to the plot, or the lack of it, I should say. The big six get picked and that’s about it. There’s a plethora of philosophical and magical banter that created the atmosphere of a dark, academic society but wasn’t significant to the plot. When about half of the story can be cut because it’s not necessary, that’s a bit of a problem for me. There’s absolutely no world-building. We get a secret society, a magical library, and a supposed foe but nothing is expanded on. Supposedly, there’s some kind of magical government too. So, you’re telling me that magical people just live out in the open and none of the non-magical people care? Also, nobody ever intervened with anything – the Holocaust, the World Wars, nothing? What about religious people? How does magic fit into their beliefs? I just can’t handle the lack of forethought. All those endless pages wasted on discussing time travel and black holes, but we couldn’t delve into any sort of organization of the world. The writing was very irritating – it was grandiloquent and unrefined at the same exact time which I know makes no sense but hear me out. It was pretentious, specifically crafted to impress while the real information and humorous quips were included in parentheses. Parentheses. Every. Single. Time. WHY? Seriously, there would be entire paragraphs inserted using parentheses in the middle of an entirely different section. Overall, the biggest sin of this book is being horrendously boring. There was nothing to draw me in or keep my interest – not the plot, characters, or world. I apologize if you loved this story and come across this review. Honestly, I’m very happy you enjoyed it – I wish I could’ve.
4186269314	“The moral of this story is:Beware the man who faces you unarmed.If in his eyes you are not the target, then you can be sure you are the weapon.”I find it quite ironic that the best thing about The Atlas Six is its opening line. After all, it makes perfect sense that a book so keen on dazzling readers with cryptic concepts and purple prose would showcase its best assets at the very beginning.I’m also not surprised that it has mainly gained popularity with a young audience. Had I read this as a teenager, I too would have probably been carried away by the alluring atmosphere and continuous attempts to hint at a deeper, more complex mystery that is, in fact, never revealed to the audience.But let’s not get ahead of ourselves. Rather than hastily passing judgement on the overall quality of the novel, I would like to analyze each of its components to explain what I think worked and what I believe fell short of the mark. Spoilers ahead, obviously.Writing StyleAlthough I commend Blake for managing to put out a self-published book that’s as polished as a traditionally published one, I can’t help feel that the novel would have benefited from a more thorough editing process. The prose sometimes felt stiff and overly convoluted, as if the author was trying too hard to sound sophisticated. The dialogue was often too abstract and straight up nonsensical, and some lines were just, well, bad:“Callum regarded him another moment, shutting the book before him and rising uncomplicatedly to his feet”.How does one rise uncomplicatedly to his feet? What does that even mean?“Just… try not to Rhodes this,” he said. “Okay?”This isn’t AO3. Character names aren’t verbs, adjectives, or adverbs.“Mortality was one thing; power was another. It was a lesson she would have to remember not to forget.”An obvious platitude (mortality and power aren’t the same thing) followed by the same basic concept, repeated twice for additional drama (if you must remember something, you obviously shouldn’t forget it).World BuildingWhile I enjoyed the basic idea of a world where magical beings are forced to reveal their powers in order to prevent an environmental apocalypse, I felt like the setting wasn’t adequately developed. For one thing, it just wouldn’t make sense for non-magical humans to passively accept the existence of an immensely powerful, magical minority: you can’t tell me that 99% of the global population would be okay knowing that Medeians could have prevented wars, natural disasters, and genocides, but just refused to do it because… reasons? Also, why haven’t these all-powerful, power-hungry magicians taken over the world already?The other issue I had was that at no point could I figure out the rules and limits of the characters’ abilities. Libby and Nico can apparently manipulate any physical matter to the extent they choose; Parisa can read minds, but she can also transport people into other people’s thoughts without them knowing (?); Callum is initially presented as an empath, but by the end of the book his powers are more similar to those of BBC Sherlock, in the sense that he can figure out everything about anyone just by looking at them long enough.CharactersMany have described The Atlas Six as a character-driven book, but I’ll have to disagree: at no point in the story did I feel anything but vague curiosity towards the main cast. The six (eight?) protagonists have very little depth, and experience no growth whatsoever: even their relationships with one another remain surface-level, seemingly more focused on power struggle than real intimacy. There isn’t a single touching scene or emotional exchange between them.Once again, their charm is mainly due to their enigmatic personas; we’re encouraged to believe that each one is hiding a shocking secret that will reveal something crucial about their personality. Of course, these secrets are never disclosed, leaving the audience unsatisfied and wanting more. This is an effective, if rather cheap, trick to keep readers invested in the narrative without actually providing them with any substantial content.PlotWhat I said about the characters largely applies to the plot, too: 90% of the book is spent building up to some big revelation that is supposed to coincide with the initiation ceremony. The questions keep piling up: who is behind the Alexandrian Society? What does the Forum really want? What is Atlas Blakely’s plan?None of them are answered; moreover, the initiation itself turns out to be incredibly disappointing. The author spends 350 pages painting it as a pivotal moment, only to eventually reveal that it has no meaning at all. Why do the candidates need to kill one of their peers? Well, because it’s tradition, of course!I’m not kidding when I say I almost threw the book across the room after reading that line. What a sorry excuse for an explanation.In short, this book felt like a beautifully wrapped gift box filled with nothing but streamers and confetti: pretty and enticing, but ultimately insubstantial. Maybe Blake plans to redeem herself in the sequel; in that case, I’ll be happy to revise my opinion.
4743073174	Ninth House meets A Deadly Education, positioning itself exactly in the middle of them.I have so many things to say that I don't even know where to start. But I'll try to begin with a good laugh, so: I love the fact that for a moment this book was in every feed on every social, and everyone was loving it so much. At least, this is what I was convinced to believe because it does look like one of those books you're gonna obsess about. Imagine my surprise when every review I've read about it has just not-so-good things to say. I thought we were in this together, guys.I have to admit I was in the moment I realised I was finally reading a story about people that are not teenagers. Yes, technically they're still studying, but I'm so sick of books about 17 years old who’re gonna save the world or find the love of their life in their besties. Give the twenties some credit!So, two pages in and I already decided I liked it. What unsettles everybody is, apparently, the lack of narrative - actually, the too much narrative. And you're right because most of the action is in the form of a conversation between characters or even less, in the form of near flashbacks. So, in the end, what you just read was pages and pages of introspection.You can see the author is educated but that's not enough to write a good story, in my opinion. What really unsettled me was the lack of plot, tho. Pages and pages of what they think, what they can do, what they're studying, how much they hate each other, and so on until finally something happens… and no explanation for that. Nice plot twists and the right characters - I have the feeling we’ll all fall in love with Callum in the next one - are not enough for a good story, this is something the author should consider. So now I have more questions than answers and I've spent a week reading something I’d have probably forgotten by the time I’ll read the sequel. This is not good marketing, Olivie.Reading books about fantasy always makes me feel so normal in a bad way. This is not Harry Potter’s magic, this is something shady and intriguing. So easy to desire. Dark academia at its best. And, even if we know why it's called “dark”, this is exactly why we're attracted to it.↠ 4 stars
4969992279	“Beware the man who faces you unarmed. If in his eyes you are not the target, then you can be sure you are the weapon”.No sé si esto es una opinión impopular o no, pero creo que fui víctima del hype con este libro porque no lo disfruté en lo más mínimo. Este es un libro que venden diciendo que es muy dark academia, de magos, enfrentamientos, traiciones, cosas impresionantes y demás… Y en teoría la historia va sobre una sociedad que se llama la Sociedad Alejandrina, que cada década escoge a los magos más prominentes del mundo, con las habilidades más diferentes, impresionantes y demás para que compitan en una especie de torneo que tiende a ser más intelectual que cualquier cosa. Y así es como pueden ganarse una plaza dentro de la Sociedad Alejandrina y tener acceso a una cantidad de poder inconmensurable. Así que aquí nos encontramos a un montón de personajes y a la persona que los recluta, quien nos da a entender que todos están interconectados de alguna manera muy personal a pesar de que no se conocen. Y se supone que a lo largo del libro vas descubriendo esos secretos. El problema es que, para mí, la historia se quedó súper corta no solamente porque todo se desarrollaba con la lentitud de un caracol, sino que era una lentitud que no llevaba a ningún lugar. Todo eran diálogos pretensiosos, interacciones entre los ochocientos millones de personajes, pero no había tensión, no sentía la anticipación de un clímax en la historia… era una lentitud que no me llevaba a nada. Otro de mis grandes conflictos es que no logré rescatar a ninguno de los personajes, les juro que ninguno me cayó bien… y cuando leo un libro en el que quiero que todos se mueran, pues la cosa está grave. Y es que normalmente en estos libros con un montón de puntos de vista uno tiene favoritos, claro. Y sabes que cuando llegas a un capítulo de un personaje que no te gusta pronto aparecerá otro de un personaje que sí te guste. Pero esto aquí no pasaba. Era una tortura. Eventualmente hay un giro en la trama, pero yo ni siquiera lo clasificaría como algo sorprendente porque fue demasiado obvio. Desde el momento uno ya sabía que eso sucedería, así que tampoco hubo un factor que me ayudara a retomar el interés en la historia. Lo que más me pareció estúpido fue que los personajes, que se supone que son unas de las personas más inteligentes y hábiles del mundo, no se lo vieran venir y actuaran súper shockeados xD. Creo que, en resumen, es un libro que tenía potencial, pero que dejó muchas cosas a la deriva y sin explorar. Una de ellas fue el sistema de magia, del cual no se entiende absolutamente nada, lo que es absurdo para un libro que narra una competencia entre los magos más hábiles del mundo. En fin. Moraleja: no creerle nunca más al hype.
4091434346	[4.5]what i absolutely love about The Atlas Six is that not only do you have the—dare i say—regular fantasy plot (six people are selected to join a secret society in which they will have to compete against each other to access the next stage of their initiation), but that plot is enriched by something deeper, more philosophical and even existential, because the characters essentially hold the fate of the entire world in their hands, and that is bound to lead to both some introspection and some extrospection on their part. Olivie Blake writes that beautifully, and more importantly in a way that doesn’t come off as pretentious. i can only applaud her for it because this isn’t something that every author is capable of doing.every single character is unique in their own way, none of them are one hundred percent good or one hundred percent bad, which is so much fun to read! i especially enjoyed the fluidity in their relations with each other, both emotionally and physically. it’s something i’ve never seen before in fantasy—and barely in literary fiction—and that makes it so new, so refreshing. you want two characters to get together? no worries! they probably will, because everyone gets with everyone in this book, no matter their gender or their sexuality. it’s terrific, i wish all books were like that.at any rate, having re-read this book, i am now prepared to read The Atlas Paradox and buzzing with excitement!
3993246850	The Atlas Six follows 6 talented medians with unique abilities who are given the chance to compete for 5 spots in this secret society, where they can access power and knowledge behind their imagination. But when the society isn’t what they thought it would be, and the ‘elimination’ isn’t as civil as first predicted, things take a more sinister turn. (Btw this book has a GOLD MINE of amazing quotes so don't mind me posting a million of them here, you've been warned)𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚊𝚝𝚕𝚊𝚜 𝚜𝚒𝚡 𝚙𝚕𝚊𝚢𝚕𝚒𝚜𝚝:Blackout days - Nico & LibbyMake way for the king - Callum themeRunning towards a place - Nico and GideonMy tears ricochet - Libby themeWar of hearts - Tristan + Parisa + Callum Glory box - Parisa themeBreezeblocks x take a slice - Tristan themeEnemy - Reina themeMoney power glory Another level Who are you, really? (Full playlist linked below!)This was like watching The Flash. Except, it was much more difficult since, dur, it was a book. All the science blabber & info-dumping… Gosh, my brain could /not/ handle it!I expected to see the found family trope but nope! these pretentious people spent the whole book hating on each other. They spent more time forming paper-thin alliances and ‘mastermind plans’ that I still have no clue about than actually taking the time to get to know each other? eye- I felt there were instances where the author went on long rants about something that I genuinely couldn’t understand the relevance of? This book also lacked the character interactions I love reading in these sorts of books. Where characters are in forced proximity. I get that they’re competing with each other, but there wasn’t one night where they all could’ve chatted in the reading room or something? Have a conversation? That doesn’t involve one person's tongue down another’s throat??? Also, excuse me if I’m wrong, but one person gets eliminated, right? The team gets to vote on who they want gone? If so, then why did all of them try their utmost to be the rudest, disinterested, and snobbiest person in the room?Except for Libby, of course, <3 loml“Rhodes was an anxious impending meltdown whose decisions were based entirely on what she allowed the world to shape her into.” “You’re a fire hazard, Rhodes,” he said. “So stop apologizing for the damage and just let the fucker burn.”I honestly thought Libby was just some suburban gal that liked to talk a lot. But once everyone turned out to be bitches, she became much, much more appealing. Everyone was just straight-up rude to her? Callum went OUT OF HIS WAY to make her feel like she was alone and for what? Reina made it known early on she didn’t want to be her friend, and Nico was only ever with her because of their alliance. I seriously don’t get why she got so much hate early on in the book, she seems sweet :(“Maybe after a lifetime of being useless, Tristan simply wanted to be used.” “There was love in him, too much and still insufficient, twisted and anguished and equal in consequence to fear.”Tristan…how do I say this kindly?He is thoroughly and truly a dumbass 😊I don’t understand if he knows he’s being played or if he willingly allows it because some cynical part of him thinks he deserves it, but it doesn’t sit well on my conscious the stuff he lets Parisa and Callum do to him.“You think you’ve met me before, other versions of women like me, but you have no idea what I am. You think my looks are what make me? My ambitions? You can’t begin to know the sum of my parts, and you can stare all you like, but you won’t see a damn thing until I show you.” “Don’t envy me…fear me”To be honest? Parisa grew on me… at first, I thought she was way too pretentious and way too full of herself. And yes, I still think she’s way too pretension and way too full of herself. but the difference now? She’s also ✨ that bitch✨ so we allow it. "Somone always gains just as someone always loses."Reina didn’t get half as much chapter POV as she deserves, and I took that personally. I honestly forgot she was in this book at times because of how not integral she was to the plot. Love her though <3 “Some people are flawed and interesting,” Callum said with a shrug. “Others are just flawed.”While reading the atlas six, I had major flashbacks to when I was studying psychology. Mainly with Callum’s character. To me, he genuinely gave off psychopath vibes so I had to do more research. (Tick is if the trait is present in Callum imo)Psychopath traits:* socially irresponsible behavior. ✅* disregarding or violating the rights of others.✅* inability to distinguish between right and wrong.✅* difficulty with showing remorse or empathy.✅* tendency to lie often.✅* manipulating and hurting others.✅Thank you, I rest my case. “Only someone very foolish or very talented would attempt as much as Nico de Varona had attempted.Luckily, he was both troublingly talented and exceedingly unwise.” “they were binary stars, trapped in each other’s gravitational field and easily diminished without the other’s opposing force” Nico and Libby.Ying and yang. Where one underestimates themselves, the other overcompensates. One is right-handed, the other is left. Perfect set of twins. “The day you are not a fire,” he said, “is the day the earth will fall still for me.” This 😭damn 😭QUOTE 😭😭😭😭😭 Let me state that I don’t ship them because I personally don’t see any chemistry there, but I totally get why some would. They’re the only two who have a connection. You know, without the involvement of telepathic and/or emotional manipulation. I think of them as ✨platonic soulmates✨Libby and Tristan:“You don’t have to be sorry for existing, you know,” This, also, I’m not sure I ship. But eh, the fanart are cute. Nico and Gideon:“See u in my dreams, he joked.His phone buzzed in his hand.Always, Nicolás, always.”*ahem ahem*🎙And historians will call themClose friends, bеsties, roommates, colleagues, anything but lovers. History hates loversSidekicks, family, good pals, buddies, anything but loversHistory hates lovers🎙“Haven’t you figured out by now that I want your problems?” Nico demanded”There is NO WAY these two are just friends. A LIE I SAY!😩Overall, I felt like this book was pretty good but missed the mark here and there. I'm excited for the sequel, these characters though flawed and not described in proper detail, have grown on me.The Atlas Six playlist I madeUPDATE: I gave in & bought the book. Now it’s time to stare at the character art 😩😩Don’t mind me, just thinking about the fact that I could have this book in my hands right now if IT WASN’T SO DAMN EXPENSIVE!!
5537761016	I feel like as long as I've been involved in the book community, I've been seeing this book EVERYWHERE- and with such mixed opinions. I've been wanting to try it for forever and I'm glad i've finally got it off my tbr. As for my feelings on the book? 😬😬 Well.... i wasn't such a fan 😒🙃“The problem with knowledge, is its inexhaustible craving. the more of it you have, the less you feel you know.”The Atlas Six is about the Alexandrian Society, which is a secret society that has access to all the knowledge of the Alexandrian Library (which has actually survived). Every decade, six candidates are given the unique opportunity to compete for a spot in this society, with five being selected in the end. Those who are selected will secure a life of wealth, knowledge and power- but the road to initiation is wrought with dark secrets and getting there will be incredibly difficult...I'm honestly so sad that I didn't love it 😭😭 Bc the premise sounds absolutely incredible- like libraries of vast knowledge? Secret societies? A competition?? 🤩🤩 That sounds like everything I would love. But unfortunately, something about this story just didn't work for me and I had a LOT of problems with it 😬😬“Really, there was nothing more dangerous than a woman who knew her own worth.”Starting with the characters! .... which is my main problem with the book ☹ Because if I'm being completely honest, they were pretty awful 😑😑Meet our six candidates:➳ Libby: okay, Libby wasn't so awful to be fair🤷‍♀️ She's not my favorite character in the world, but I enjoyed reading her POV a LOT more than most of the others' and I related a lot to her- she is judged quite harshly by the others for being overly anxious and 'nerdy'.... which is basically me 🙈🙈 I honestly wish we'd gotten to know more about her & her past bc i feel like there's a lot to learn!! So, yeah, i liked her 😊➳ Nico: he also wasn't too bad- he and Libby were probably my favorites of the group 🤩 I really liked how he seemed very different in the others' perspectives compared to his own, showing he has a lot of hidden layers. He is the bad rich boy kinda character, which I really like 😏 I definitely wanted to learn more about him bc there was a severe lack of him compared to the others, which annoyed me 😒😒➳ Parisa- *deep breath* I CANNOT with this girl. I HATED HER SM 😠😠😤😤👊👊 She was literally SO pretentious and arrogant and reading her chapters was like dying a slow death. Every time i saw her name at the top of the page, I would have to force myself to keep reading 😫😫 Her inner monologue was SO repetitive- all she thought about was manipulating people and who she could hook up with next. How are we supposed to root for her?! 😤😤➳ Callum- say hello to another person i hate 😑😑 *smiles through the pain* I honestly just immediately disliked him from the beginning and then... didn't stop. He was also so so arrogant which just reaaally annoyed me 😤 And he just had this 'I'm better than everyone' attitude that made me want to punch something. Preferably his smug little face. There was nothing likable about him 😠😠➳ Reina- *rolls eyes* honestly she was just incredibly boring 🙄🙄 Every chapter from her pov just put me to sleep and she had absolutely NO development in this 370 pg book. I didn't care about her at all 🥱🥱➳ Tristan- honestly... meh 😒 I didn't DISLIKE Tristan per se, but i didn't like him either. He was kinda just there. That's about all i have to say about him 🤷‍♀️So, yeahhhh... the characters were not my favorite. at all 🙃 Which is the main reason I ended up not loving this. “The moral of this story is:Beware the man who faces you unarmed.If in his eyes you are not the target,then you can be sure you are the weapon.”Next, the writing!! ✨ Olivie Blake's writing is actually super interesting- it's quite complicated and not exactly easy to read, but super unique🤩🤩 There were some really cool quotes but the style it was written meant i couldn't really binge it or anything bc i was struggling to concentrate. It wasn't my favorite writing style, I prefer smoother styles, but i didn't dislike it- it was super unique!! 💕The plot- I have mixed feelings. On one hand, this book's storyline is one of my fave things about it as it is so interesting, but on the other it was super sloww. What i liked about it- the story in this book was so so interesting and unique- I loved the Alexandrian library plotline and the secret society was cool too 🤩🤩 I also thought some of the twists were pretty interesting and have left me with a lot of questions ✨On the other hand tho, this book was SO slow-paced 🙄🥱 There was very little action and plot advancement for a large chunk of it and the whole middle part was just them sitting around researching and getting nowhere 😒 This book would've definitely benefited from faster pacing and more action and worldbuilding, less unneccessary scenes of them researching stuff- that would've kept me a lot more invested.“Knowledge is carnage. You can’t have it without sacrifice.”Overall, i didn't hate it but it also wasn't great 😒😒 Overhyped? Absolutely. Awful? No. While I have no interest whatsoever in continuing this series and didn't have an amazing time, I would still recommend if you want:✔ Interesting and unique storyline✔ Cool dark academia vibes✔ Unique writingI'm glad i finally read it at least 🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️~ 3 stars~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Well this turned out to be... meh 😭😭 This story had sm potential but it just didn't work. It wasn't awful, but it is SUPER overhyped 😒RTC!
4946800091	3.75 Stars Planning on going back to this series soon. “Beware the man who faces you unarmed. If in his eyes you are not the target, then you can be sure you are the weapon.” An intriguing dark academia/magical story with many twists and turns that is a pretty dense, complicated story that's heavy on the characters and light on the plot. Characters fascinate me, and no doubt this book is certainly character driven- it's a story of deception and manipulation, a game of social chess you could say.. intelligent, engaging, and the construction of magic based on physics and philosophy story.Magicians live among the normal human population and attend universities that help them hone their skills. There are different varieties of power sets. Every ten years, the powerful and secretive Alexandrian Society chooses six recruits to train and study. At the end of the first year, one recruit will be eliminated.Six unique and powerful people are chosen to study at the Alexandrian library. Nico and Libby, physical magicians, Reina, a naturalist, Parisa, a telepath, Tristan, whose power set isn’t as well defined, and Callum, an empath, come together to form the next class.What happens next is betrayal, seduction, and alliances as secrets and lies are the currency they wield. Who will survive the first year? And who will come out on top?I feel like I should say that while the characters are complex and very interesting in my opinion, it took a while for me to find any of them particularly likable- with that being said, I don't think they're supposed to be very likable. They're these elite of the elite, the creme de la creme, they're quite full of themselves. But putting them all together makes for an intellectual competitiveness- a viciousness that I find delicious. “The problem with knowledge, is its inexhaustible craving. the more of it you have, the less you feel you know”“We are the gods of our own universes, aren't we? Destructive ones.”“Knowledge is carnage. You can’t have it without sacrifice.”“You know why you don’t understand me?” Parisa answered Reina’s thoughts, stepping closer to lower her voice. “Because you think you’ve figured me out. You think you’ve met me before, other versions of women like me, but you have no idea what I am. You think my looks are what make me? My ambitions? You can’t begin to know the sum of my parts, and you can stare all you like, but you won’t see a damn thing until I show you.”“Don’t envy me, Reina,” she advised softly, turning to say it in Reina’s ear. “Fear me.” I won't even fake the front lol, it took me almost the entirety of the book to get some footing and feel grounded. Mostly because much of the plot is lost in being bombarded with so many over the top personalities as well as intricate details. This is the second book I've read by Blake and make no mistake - her writing is flowery, I find that it's something either you love or you hate. For me, I love it. I love the beauty in it, and that it's so multifaceted. I'll likely read through this one more time before moving on to book 2. ─── ･ ｡ﾟ☆: *.☽ .* :☆ﾟ. ────── ･ ｡ﾟ☆: *.☽ .* :☆ﾟ. ───Well, that was a lot. *wipes sweat off brow*I really enjoyed this, even though I was confused af at first as to wtf was going on lol - RTC
4155957591	I feel betrayed by the booktok community. Never have I ever disliked a book so much. It was so messy.This is gonna contain minor spoilers so beware.There were so many inconsistencies when it came to the world building. My brain had such a hard time figuring out the characters and their surroundings and the house. What exactly was that house and the lectures?? What were they actually studying?? What was the point? The main goal??? Am I really that dumb for not figuring it out? It feels like I'm the only one with this opinion and I just don't get it.Everything about the magic system was ???????????????????????? Excuse me but what the fuck? Okay so they each have a unique ability that's kind of explained but then they can also do these little magic tricks that are randomly shown but just brushed off as if we're already supposed to know that they're all capable of that????? I'm sorry but what?Don't even get me started on the plot, there's nothing to say because it simply doesn't exist. Correct me if I'm wrong but I read somewhere that this was supposed to be a character driven story, yet ALL of the characters felt so detached from everything this book had the potential to be.I might give this another go after TOR publishes and edits it but I doubt much will change.If you want to read a good character driven book, go read Vicious. That's how it's done.
5042877714	I am a Parisa stan till the day I die.I really liked this book especially because of the unique characters in here. We start off with an introduction to every single one of the candidates and I was so intrigued by every single one and wanted to see what type of magic they had and how they would use it to win the competition. I was especially excited about Parisa since from the beginning she was everything. The quotes, the way she talked about her power, the way she wanted to manipulate men and how, her overall excitement and mystery and just her in general. I loved everything about her and wanted to see how she would interact with the other characters. I also really liked Tristan because his backstory was very mysterious and the way he discovered his powers and started using them was also really nice. Callum was also just great. He was a very interesting manipulative character and his relationship with both Tristan and Parisa was so different yet you could see the similarities.I wish we had more of Reina because she had a cool backstory but she was the character with the least amount of focus which was disappointing. I also wanted a bit more tension since to me after the battle scene less happened than before and in general I wished we had more tension. I really want to see how the critique of the institution play out in the second book since a lot of the mc's are not against how this very closed off institution feeds into keeping knowledge away from the general public. The way some of them fought for knowledge and power was interesting and I really liked how Libby contrasted to Nico and how both of them got to this place in their life differently which really shows the issue of the overall institution as well as colleges in general. The plot twist was great and I really want to see how it changes in book two especially with the moral point of this story with the focus on sharing of knowledge or keeping it to yourself.
3931703671	?????!!!!!!! WHAT THE FUCKING FUCK??????? NEXT BOOK COMES OUT WINTER 2022????? WHAT?????? OLIVIE BLAKE DO U WANT ME TO THROW MYSELF OFF MY BALCONY?????? BECAUSE I’LL DO IT
4390868510	THREE STARSDark academiasecret societiesbadass characters.what could go wrong!A lot besties. I did enjoy this book, or else I would've given it a two star rating, but something fell..........flat!Let's go overr the things that dragged this book into the dust.One: The Characters.Here are the characters I liked. Nico, Parisa, Libby. That's it. I wasn't rooting for any of the other characters.I loved Libby, because she was more brains than brawn, and had logic, and actually dealt with a lot of emotions which made her so human.I loved Nico because he was snarky and adorable and cared about Libby so fucking much even though he denied it at first.And I loved Parisa because she outsmarted almost every fucking character in this book. Like, I cannot talk about how much I worship this woman. She uses her good looks to her advantage, but she sure knows how to fucking fight. Ugh, women are awesome.And for the other characters.tristan, I sort of liked him, not really. He was plain and boring and spent more time complaining then he did actually getting his life together.Callum is literally the fictional version of richard Rodriguez. He manipulated everyone, and normally I'm like "gaslight, gatekeep girlboss" because Parisa did it too. But she didn't do it for the reasons he did. It was so disturbing the way he messed with everyoneand Reina. Ugh, girlie, I tried so hard to like you, but you were plain and boring and never stood up for yourself.And atlas....ugh i hate him. That's all I have to say.Two: the inner monologue!Listen here, I love myself a good monologue, especially when it involves political intrigue and internal conflict. Imma bitch for those tropes. But when it's just the inner monologue, and then nothing happens and the character proceeds to do the exact opposite thing they've been ranting is right, I sit there dumbfounded like: "You just ranted about how eating meat is literally cannibalism and feeds the manufacturing industry, and now you're eating a McDonald double burger. BITCH IF YOU DON"T SHUT THE FUCK UP!" It's like girl...p-racticew what you preach. And might I add, that this trope applied to all the characters I hated, and added to my hatred. My babies, Nico, Libby, and Parisa are innocent.3: Fancy languageIn fifth grade we had this five finger rule. Count your fingers for each time you had to search up something. because of abook or because the book made it unclear. When you reach five fingers, that means the book isn't right for you. THAT IS WHAT I FELT LIKE!Miss Blake, you are an excellent writer. You convinced me with your amazing descriptions and inner action. You do not need to make me use a dictionary. Your writing was already fancy enough. The annoying vocabulary came off as pretentious and ruined the flow of my book. Not to mention, it didn't fit some characters perspectives. Like, I love Nico but he can't even spell the word "anonymous", how is he supposed to know what "effervescent".anyway, that's all.hopefully the next book will be bettersee y'all bitches later.-----------------------Ugh, this book had so much potential. The writing was beautiful but the plot fell flat a littlereview To Come------------------------------Dark academia, secret societies, competition, lgbt.God's just throwing down heavens most sacred books for free!
4532145091	oofi kinda hated this…too many characters that were waaaaay too similar to the rest so it got so confusingnone of them interested methe “twist” wasn’t not shockingthey all kept saying pretentious things that didn’t make sense/had no relevance the magic was so complicated i started zoning out after the action at the start, it actually just bored me ://
4431328451	First 5 star read of 2022!!!! I am so in love w this book. The characters, the multi pov, their relationships, the intricacies of their magic WOW. I love how intelligent each character is and how they all have their own agendas. Desperately need to read the 2nd book in this series
4210771499	i’m going to say this book is a 3.5 🌟 for me. i am one of those people that fall into the book hype so i’ve seen this book everywhere and thought it was such a cool concept and seemed super interesting. that being said, this isn’t 3.5 stars because it isn’t a good book, because it is. i really loved most of the characters, i liked how you had multiple point of views to truly see what each character has to offer and their importance to the story through either themselves or others. however, i was so confused throughout this entire book. the writing was so vague, especially when dealing with magic and big concepts as time and molecular energy i was left with a huge question mark in my head. it seemed at if the writing was supposed to come across as sophisticated but all it did was leave me wondering what i just read. i had to keep re reading multiple times to even understand what was being said, it seemed like there were so many underlying tones in almost every conversation in this book which is probably intentional but still. i do think that was my main problem with this book was just how confused i felt. also, towards the end i could not follow anything that was happening. i had to look up what this ending meant and it seems like a lot of others are confused too. with that being said, i still loved the characters and did enjoy the story line. it put me in a mini slump it took me close to a week to read which rarely happens. i found myself not wanting to pick up this book and read it because of the super slow pacing in the middle of the book. i pushed through to the end though and will be reading the next solely because i can’t be left on a cliff hanger. (and i do have an attachment to some of the characters ok)
4546587921	i am completely obsessed with every aspect of this book. what drugs did olivie blake put into the atlas six to make it so intriguing??there isn’t a single character that i don’t find interesting in the very least, and the fact that i couldn’t wait to read from the perspectives of characters i didn’t like says a lot about her writing in general (which was amazing)parisa was my favourite character for the sole reason being her manipulating people 24/7 i also adored how pretentious it was. it completely made the book for me.
3859647532	18.4.2021 — i interviewed the author!!!! check out my blog post where alexene discusses THE ATLAS SIX, reveals more about what’s next in THE ATLAS SERIES, shares some of the magical writing and research process and MORE!9.3.2021 —i am starving for more. more of all of whatever the atlas six was.the magic—the pure, hungry and pulsating magic that lives within this story.the science and physics for which my love has been reignited.the complexities with which this plot thrived and lived through.the characters that each of which has deeply, entirely and absolutely carved a place in my heart to be cradled into.but most of all,i crave for more of olivie blake’s stunning writing and compelling storytelling.there are simply not enough words to hold this book to enough of the high praise it deserves. i will continue to think about and ponder every line i’ve read in these numbered pages and i cannot imagine i’ll ever tire of it. that’s how mind-blowing-ly good this story is. safe to say it’s unlike anything i’ve ever read before, in the best way that could exist. my brain is fried, yes, i may not be able to form coherent thoughts as of this moment or any moment in the near future, yes, but i will always be grateful to have lived such an exhilarating reading experience with these characters that have been engraved deeply into my heart. it’s such a saddening fact that i cannot simply open a door to travel back in time and relive it all for the first time again.tw: psychological trauma, blood, mention of starvation (metaphorically), death of a parent, mass-shooting (in a place of religious practices), death of a loved one (off-page), drug use, anxiety, kidnapping, suicide and suicidal thoughts, emotional/mental abuse, manipulation, blood, gambling, cheating, degenerative disease, incest, sacrifice + may add more!
4308191829	3.5 stars okay the ending was good but i also was confused? i really wanted to like the book but there was no plot and i can’t do character driven books, i liked the character dynamics and reading this knowing they’ll be a trilogy i can really hope that it fixed some things i had a problem with. i felt like this book read more ya than adult and i felt it was actually trying to hard to see adult?? also the writing was weird to me like a lot of things were always put in parentheses and idk why that annoyed me but it did. i do like the characters so i’ll be continuing on. sad i didn’t like it as much as i thought i would.
4701875973	This review and others @Bookerification Rating: 2.5 stars Cover: 🌟🌟🌟 The unconventional design is well-suited for the story it represents. It is fascinating, but I do not find it eye-catching (pun intended). Writing: 🌟.5 The first thing that irritated me was the unnecessarily grandiloquent writing style that made it hard for me to understand and enjoy the story. Next was the deluge of information used for most of the world-building. I barely took in most of this information and had to go over it several times to understand. Despite this, the world-building lacked complexity and left many unanswered questions about the magic system and how the Alexandrian Society works. Also, the time jumps in the story were unclear and confusing. There was, however, one thing I liked about the writing - the multiple points of view (POVs). These helped differentiate the characters and establish their motives. "More interesting than the game is always the player" Storyline: 🌟🌟.5 The focus of the storyline is placed on the internal conflicts and struggles of each character. While these were somewhat fascinating, most were not resolved or explored with much depth. The numerous ploys and politics that make up the rest of the storyline went over my head due to the pretentious writing style. I could barely understand the unfolding events and struggled to stay engaged. What little I did understand seemed to rely heavily on sex and seduction to build a weak web of intrigue. Even the few twists and mysteries included were unsatisfying since I was not shocked or moved by them. Main character(s): 🌟🌟 Despite the presence of six main characters, they each have a distinct backstory, personality and skill. This made it easier to identify the characters and allowed each to bring something different to the story. At the same time, the interchangeable use of first and last names confused me as this meant there were twelve to remember.Honestly, I did not even like these characters and could not force myself to root for any. Yes they had all faced difficulties, but that is not enough to justify their selfishness and vanity. They also have numerous internal conflicts and insecurities that make them slightly relatable, but their lack of growth means this lacks impact. "Some people are flawed and interesting… others are just flawed" Secondary characters: 🌟🌟 A handful of secondary characters are lucky enough to be given backstories and some depth. However, this is clearly done to enable these characters to play a bigger role later in the series. The remaining secondary characters do not contribute much to the storyline, as the main characters are in a secluded library. These are used as props to explain the behaviours and pursuits of the main characters. Romance: 🌟.5 The romance aspect of the story seemed unnecessary to me. It develops unnaturally and is so forced that even the characters do not know whether they have a genuine connection or were manipulated. All in all, I actually liked the concept behind 'The Atlas Six.' Sadly, this concept is lost within the grandiloquent writing style and uneventful storyline. Add in the tedious characters, and I do not think I will be continuing with this series. Those who liked this story might also like The Starless Sea by Erin Morgenstern. The writing style for both books are very similar, and both involve an ancient society with archives of knowledge.
3978585391	"Funny how that worked; the innocent fragility of being human. There were so many ways to break and so few of them heroic or noble." You can read a more detailed review over on my blog.This book was definitely one of the best reads of 2021 for me. It was absolutely amazing and I can see myself thinking about it for a very long time (or until the next book comes out. I am already anxious to get it, even though it has not been published yet). I liked so many things about the book, but the two main things I would like to emphasize are the amazing writing and the diversity of the characters (racial/ethnic and LGBTQ+ rep).At first, I want to touch on the writing: It was absolutely amazing. There were so many quotes that I was choosing from for this review (one of the finalists was also "Knowledge is carnage. You can’t have it without sacrifice." that the overachieving student in me felt to my core). Furthermore, Blake writes in such a unique style that makes the story just flow until you read the book's last page. It honestly felt like I was being serenaded by her words.What I absolutely love about this book is that Blake acknowledges diversity in academia: academia is not just white. There are references to Islamic libraries and thinkers that I absolutely loved. We have characters from different racial, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds. This diversity is also seen through their POVs, but especially through Reina's where we can see her thinking influenced by Eastern philosophies. Each and every character was also so developed that I felt like I was reading about real people. The six characters definitely made me feel like I was back in my PoliSci class with the PoliSci major students (interpret that as you will).If I am being honest, for the better part of the book I was not sure what the plot was, I was just following Blake and her characters on this journey. And then there was a plot twist I did not see coming, and then there was another one and another one. I devoured the last third of the book like my life depended on it, and I was left on a big opening for the next book (that again, I need right now). (Also an important thing people should know about--since I did not--there is character art at the end of each chapter. And they are all so attractive and for what?)~ 5 starsMy first thoughts:I am not quite sure what to say about this book yet. I will write a review discussing it. I just need to compose my thoughts, but my 5 stars remain.
4123781335	this is for girlies who like reading about terrible people doing terrible things and being schemers who scheme all over around & above each other. absolutely unbelievable dialogue that nobody would say in real life...and ladies it scratched my eternal ITCH for Pretentious Smart People Being Smart And Pretentious In Conversation, perhaps my favorite trope. i am a slut for machinations and plans and this book is basically only that, nothing else.it is unclear whether i'm deeply satisfied by the ending or merely dazed/confused but i'm willing to accept that i'm too stupid to understand because certainly that's how every character would treat me if we met in real life so it feels appropriatehonestly tempted to give this a lower ranking after reading the Goodreads Review Discourse because i agree with most of what people aren't enjoying about this book. like yeah, it's disgustingly pretentious. sometimes the prose is so ridiculous it borders on unreadable, and not in a cute quotable way. there is essentially no character development. but god damn it, i had a good time, it was fun, parisa is a BAD bitch, and i love myself, and so i'm giving this a solid 4 on those bases alone.
4150825171	A mani basse una delle letture migliori dell’anno!Nonostante qualche difetto credo sia un grandissimo primo volume, necessario ad introdurre dei personaggi meravigliosamente complessi, stratificati e distorti.Sicuramente è un libro che viene portata avanti proprio dai suoi personaggi, dall’altra parte la costruzione del mondo e del contesto, che si dipanano lentamente durante la narrazione, mi hanno completamente catturato.Attendo il secondo volume come poche cose al mondo.—————14/05/22 - dopo la seconda lettura confermo: The Atlas Six è veramente una bomba incredibile. Eh sì, sono ancora qui aspettando il secondo volume
4031158788	DNF at page 105. Idk, this book is loved by the community but it just wasn't for me. The writing style just came across to me as flat. Every character seemed emotionless. I found myself picking it up to read and just wasn't into it. This is just my interpretation of the book so if others loved it than that makes me super happy. This just wasn't for me.
4680684002	I can't think of basically anything that I could say I enjoyed about this book. Very disappointing. FULL REVIEW: https://youtu.be/IE9HGYB4N8w
4620964202	I’m so happy I found a new group of morally grey characters to obsess over
4329633446	So much angst, so little plot
4234040902	** spoiler alert ** I promised myself that I would start 2022 without any leftover grudges, so here I am on New Year’s Eve, rewriting a review for this book because I just cannot stop thinking about it, and the more I think about it the more I dislike it. Not because it was unreadable, per se, but because, well, to put it figuratively, this book felt like a broken promise… but more on that later. So strap in, folks, because this is going to be a wild one. Oh, and if I sound bitter it’s probably because I am. Y’all lied to me. Let’s start easy, won’t we? Let’s start with the things I liked. Because, yes, surprisingly there were quite a few things I liked, and I like giving credit where it’s due, especially to a debut novel (don’t worry, though, it’s a short list.) First of all, the writing was utterly gorgeous - though at times it might have needed a better editor (or one at all.) Which is especially frustrating, because having that quality of writing in this book is like having Sofia Coppola direct a low budget porno. It’s just a waste. Other than that, the premise was absolutely outstanding. A secret, magical society holding thousand of years of hidden knowledge? Six equally powerful, equally talented morally grey main characters competing for survival? A new magical system rooted in actual science, each character with their own, unique power? I could not believe my eyes when I first read the synopsis. It sounded too good to be true. And of course now I know that it was, in fact, too good to be true, because the book delivers on almost none of those promises. But again, I’m getting ahead of myself. The first fifty pages or so were amazing. We spent a long time estabilishing our main characters, their powers, their backstories, their weaknesses. I fell in love with most of them immediately, because they all seemed genuinely compelling characters, and so what if they were a bit flat at first? I wasn’t in any hurry. We had the rest of the book to flash them out, and I was prepared to see where the author was going to take them. Which brings me to the first problem… the characters. Now, I want to be clear. When I say I fell in love with them, I mean I fell in love with their potential. I fell in love with them in the same way one might fall in love with the mysterious guy they’ve seen at a coffee shop smoking hand rolled cigarettes with guitar case on his shoulder, only to discover after a couple of dates that he hasn’t showered in three weeks and thinks Tarantino is the greatest director who’s ever lived. My point is, I fell in love with them before I got to know them, and that’s where I got screwed. Because they’re all insufferable.Some less than others, of course - Reina and Nico where the most bearable of the bunch and, dare I say, I was even kind of invested in their storylines (pity that they were nearly non-existent). But everyone else I was fully ready to get violent with, especially the author’s golden child, Parisa. Now, having six protagonists, especially in a debut novel, is incredibly difficult. It’s very easy to focus exclusively on your favorite characters or to accidentally make them all inconsistent because you tried to cram too much backstory into four hundred pages. Olivie blake seems to fall victim to the former. I want you to really think about it and try to guess who the author’s favorite character is. Is it a) the cynical naturalist who has no impact on the plot, b) the smug physicist with a somewhat interesting - but useless - side plot or c) the sexy mind control lady with no flaws - well, no intentional ones at least -, who toys with every other character for the entirety of book because she is just that powerful? If you guessed c, you’d be correct! It’s natural to have favourites as an author, of course, no one is truly impartial. What isn’t okay is for the reader to be able to tell exactly which characters the author has a hard on for. (Also, kind of a side note, but I’m willing to bet my house that Libby is her self-insert. You cannot tell me I’m wrong.) And again, it’s perfectly fine if you just want to talk about your ideal woman and how everyone is in love with her for four hundred pages (wether she be your type or the person you want to be). Do whatever you want, it’s your book, and perhaps people are going to like it all the same. But please have the decency to market it as such so that I won’t have to read it. (I feel like that came off more aggressive than I’d meant it to. I don’t hate Olivie Blake, I really don’t, I’m just frustrated I wasted my time.)Anyways, next point, the pacing (lol, you thought I was done? I’m only at bullet point number two.) I have no better way to convey this other than to say… this book was boring as shit. Which normally is fine, personally I like books where not much happens because it gives us more time to focus on the characters. It just isn’t ideal when I want most of the characters dead. It really struggled to convey the passage of time, nothing happened up until the finale and then way too much happened all at the same time. Don’t quote me on this, but I’m pretty sure Olivie Blake outlined the first and second book at the same time, because this book feels like a first act to the unreleased sequel… except that it’s four hundred pages long. She could have easily cut out the entire middle and the story would be exactly the same. When I first saw she was taking her time establishing the characters I was thrilled. When I got to the midpoint and she was still establishing the characters, not so much. Still, this is one of her most forgivable mistakes as a first time author, so I won’t hold it against her (excessively). Another, less forgivable problem with this book, the word building, mostly because everything about it was frustratingly vague. The places the scenes take place in, how life at the Society is, how their powers work, what impact magic has on society. How common are medeians? Are they usually pretty powerful? Are they not? Does it vary? And again with their history; have they always existed? Could they have stopped the Holocaust? Do they fight in the army? How do people perceive them? Do they hate them? Do they think they’re gods and saints? Is it neither? Is it both? You’re killing me, Olivie. Honestly, I could go on and on. My point is we know next to nothing about the magical system. Generally, it’s great to focus on the characters, but the characters are just a part of what makes a story good. And now on to a part of the story that might have somewhat redeemed it, but didn’t: the dialogue. Ah, the dialogue in this book. It’s really smart, actually… well, if by smart you mean that every character talks like they’ve definitely practiced what they’re saying in front of a mirror. Of course this is a matter of taste and I might be in the minority here but why does no one in this book talk like an actual person? Honestly, is it really too much to ask for them to have one (1) normal conversation? Witty banter is one thing, but every single one of their conversations is like this, and it gets really boring really fast. If you’re thinking this might be an overstatement, it’s really not. Don’t worry, I have examples.“Being liked is fairly ordinary, I’m afraid.” Callum said. “Intensely commonplace.” “How unimpressive.” Tristan said dryly. “Oh, it can be helpful at times, but I certainly don’t aim for it.” “How exactly do you plan to avoid being eliminated then?” “Well,” Callum said patiently, “for one thing, you won’t let it happen.” Tristan raised a hand to reslease a scoff into his palm, curling the fingers around it (whatever the fuck that means). “And how won’t I?” See? Who talks like that? It would be different if only one character spoke like this, it might just be their style. But every one of them talks like this. At first I found it charming, looking back on it now I just find it annoying.And now the plot twist, the cherry on top of the shit cake. (Here there will be all kinds of spoilers, obviously, minor and major, so if for some god forsaken reason you still feel the desire to pick up this book this is your cue to leave) So, for those of you who don’t know in storytelling there are two crucial elements that make a good plot twist; 1) foreshadowing it and 2) making it realistic or plausible within the context of the story. Olivie Blake does neither, to the point where this plot twist starts to feel like an afterthought, like she had a deadline and hadn’t slept in a week and thought “Hey, what if I make this random side character the secret villain of the story? Wouldn’t that be fun?” No it fucking wouldn’t, Olivie. Except that I suspect she actually went in with this idea all along, which should make it better but somehow makes it worse. Being shocking isn’t what makes a good plot twist, being smart is. And I’m sorry, but this wasn’t smart. It was just cheap. Also, Olivie, quick word of advice. If you promise at the start of the book that one of your characters is going to die (or otherwise disappear from the story) by the end, you’d better have a pretty great reason for it not to happen. Otherwise it immediately lowers the stakes.Which brings me to the next and most important area in which this book has failed me; it delivers on none of the promises it’s made. We were told we were getting six main characters; the auhor was only interested in about half of them. We were told someone was going to die; everyone survives. We were told we were getting dark academia; we know next to nothing about what our main characters were researching. We were told they were all equally powerful; most of them were just pawns in Parisa and Callum’s game. Basically, everything that made this premise intriguing was immediately thrown out the window to make space for love triangles between decidedly underdeveloped characters and talking about Parisa’s sex life. This was not what you told me this book was going to be about, Olivie. Why are you lying to me? So, final point; what would I have done differently? As you might or might not know, I am a writer myself, so here is everything I would have fixed without altering the basic premise. 1. make it a standaloneI feel like this book’s premise is very solid precisely because we know how it’s going to end. With the promise of a sequel, every consequence is temporary and the stakes aren’t as high. 2. someone actually dies at the endThis could happen in many ways, but consider this scenario: Libby allies with Parisa, Callum and Tristan pretty early in the story. After a while they decide to kill Nico, and ask Libby to infiltrate the Reina-Nico axis. When she finds out, she is obviously conflicted - we might even develop some kind of romance between them to amp up the tension, which will hurt all the more because he is oblivious and she is planning to kill him. At the same time, the romance between her and Parisa gets developed as well, until she is forced to decide between one of the two. She’s playing both sides and we (the reader) don’t know for sure who she intents to kill up until the very end, partially because she doesn’t know either. A couple of chapters before the finale she has a conversation with Callum in which he implies that he is open to the possibility of killing Parisa. She is still conflicted; finally gets persuaded by Parisa to kill Nico but - plot twist - she kills Parisa instead, who is shocked because she was so confident in her power that she hadn’t anticipated she might switch sides. Callum had been planning this since the very beginning.3. don’t make Parisa into a femme fataleParisa is by far the most boring chatacter the this book. She has no intentional flaws or weaknesses, she is ridiculously powerful, she has no drive. We know she’s ambitious, but we don’t know why. Does she want to prove herself like Libby and Tristan? Does she have a thirst for knowledge like Reina? Is she simply bored like Callum? We don’t know. I can almost respect Callum’s character more because he is supposed to be obnoxious and detestable; he’s so used to getting people to like him just using his power that he doesn’t bother trying to be likeable. Parisa, on the other hand, isn’t supposed to be detestable. You’re supposed to like her, to fall in love with her, to root for her. And I don’t know about you but I just… didn’t. Something that didn’t help was the fact that she was constantly trying to seduce every character and that nearly every character is attracted to her. Now, it makes sense that someone who can read minds would be manipulative, yes, but why would she use her appearence to manipulate them when she can litterally read minds? There are much more effective ways to do so. It just doesn’t make sense. Anyways congratulations if you got to this point. This was mostly just a rant about a book I really, really hated. Happy new year guys!
3885857582	This review is going to be shorter than usual as I accidentally left it over a month after finishing this book to actually write this. At first, I wanted to give myself space to process what I’d just read but then… I just never got around to writing it.I thoroughly enjoyed The Atlas Six. Perhaps BookTok was onto something with this one because this book was interesting, clever and full of compelling characters. I believe a lot of books with as many perspectives as this one suffer for it – the characters aren’t well enough developed as they simply don’t get enough page time and there is so much happening that plot threads are left unattended. This was not the case with The Atlas Six. Each character was unique and memorable, with a distinct voice and personality. They were well developed both within their own perspective and through the others’. They bounced off of each other well, in such a way that they felt all the more human and I adored their relationships, whether they were platonic, romantic or antagonistic.I enjoyed the mystery and intrigue surrounding the Alexandrian Society and was left reeling with the twists and reveals towards the end. The magic system was also really interesting – I’m a sucker for secret magical societies – and I loved the scientific focus. The Atlas Six is an overall character driven book (which is my personal preference), but that didn’t mean that anything else was slacking. It was gripping and thought provoking, and I can’t wait to see what happens next.I also talk about books here: youtube | instagram | twitter *eARC received in exchange for an honest review via Netgalley*
4116742019	Most boring book I have ever read. So disappointing, I don't understand how people like it. The writing style is SO HARD to follow it's pretentious and impersonal, I feel no connection or empathy to any character and the change of narrator in EVERY chapter is so annoying. Nothing happens in the book and even when something does happen, it's confusing. There is no romance, just small crushes between people. Don't let the pretty pictures deceive you, read a few chapters online to see if you like the writing because it doesn't get any better as the book goes on.
4152054914	I honestly don’t know where to start or how to start this review. This book is not bad and has potential for the rest of the series but I don’t understand the hype. It’s not a masterpiece nor a perfect book. I won’t even crack my usual jokes because I’m just disappointed. This book was so dull for me that I don’t have the energy to even hate on it, which is saying something.First of all, the characters. They are annoying pretentious arrogant assholes. Everyone thinks they got it worse than the other but in the end, they’re all traumatized little jackasses. Their superiority complex was so bad that they’d scare the pants of a therapist. Let’s make a list:1) Reina was your causal emo girl. 2) Libby was a basic white girl with anxiety. 3) Callum was literally a sociopath. He could put Kai Parker, who murdered his five siblings including his twin sister who was pregnant at her own wedding, to shame. I have no idea why the author forced us to read from his POV. 4) Tristan was just unremarkable. He was the embodiment of the standing man emoji.5) Parisa was just bad, I hated every part of her. I quit reading the book for days whenever I had to read from her POV. Whenever I think about her I just hear Chris Evans say “You vicious little bitch.” She was just horrible and there was no depth to her character even though she had a tragic backstory. 6) Nico was the only good character even though he was also, in fact, an ass. He was bearable at least and he was the only one who cared for someone other than himself. The characters also had no character development whatsoever. They did not change, ever. And no, I do not care that they became a team in the end. (Insert sparkles emoji here.) They are still selfish and annoying kids. Moving on to the plot, or the lack of it to be honest. What was even this book about? The big six gets picked and that’s it. The rest of the book is about them studying and hating each other. You can’t tell me I’m wrong. Literally, NOTHING happens till the final. The author just said, “Fuck it, here’s a magical library and that’s all you get.”What is the all mighty Society? Honestly? We just know there is a Society and that’s it. We don’t know who they are or how the Society came to be or the length of its power. Nothing. And you’re telling me the magical people live out in the open, and normal people know about them but they NEVER intervened with anything? The World Wars? The Holocaust? NOTHING? They just stood there and watched people kill each other while eating popcorn? I’m honestly mad about it. What about the religions? Do religious people just accept them and go on with their lives? I just can’t with this book.I also did not like the way it was written. You get pages and pages of useless details about what happened in like an hour then BOOM it’s four months later. And this happens multiple times. The book takes place in like a year or so but it was handled in a weird way. This prevented me from bonding with the characters and understanding their motives if they had any. Lastly, I wanna talk about the so-called threesome scene. Y’all lied to me. This book does not have a threesome scene. They start kissing and guess what? It fades to black. Yes, folks, I got hit in the face with a freaking ‘fade to black’. Honestly, I can give this book a one-star rating just for that reason.At last here comes to the part where I talk shit about the book but this time with spoilers. Read at your own risk. (view spoiler)[ First of all the Society and therefore Atlas was OBVIOUSLY evil. There is an Illuminati-like society that forces people to live together & become friends then kill one another for no apparent reason and we were supposed to be surprised they turned out evil? (Shocked Pikachu Face) And the so-called ‘What happened to Libby?’ mystery. I knew from the start that Ezra had her. He was lurking around the library for fucks sake! When Ezra’s POV started I just rolled my eyes. Reading a history book about my country would be more surprising than this. (hide spoiler)]
4209837822	hi nico de varona & reina mori if you read this i'm free on wednesday night and would like to hangout if you want to hangout pls read this nico & reina and hangout with me on wednesday night when i'm free
4454175104	I’m really struggling with what to rate this, honestly, but 4 stars for now. The Atlas Six was surprisingly sexy for a book I expected to have no romance at all. There’s actually quite a bit of it. The relationships in this book, both romantic and not, are what I think it did best. I am legitimately invested in each and every character because of how they’re linked to others, except for the obvious outlier. I think what I’m struggling with is just that to me, this book very much seems like it exists to set up future books. As a stand alone, no major plot points were wrapped. Everything I had questions about, I still have questions about. All that to say I’ll certainly read the next book, I just wish this one had given us a little more. Some may have gotten that gratification from the twist at the end, but personally I think we were handed that twist pretty early on. The characters didn’t know what was going on, but we did. So I don’t really qualify that as a twist, personally. All in all, I enjoyed it. I was just hoping to be over the moon about it like everyone else 🥲
4215265280	This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 Support me ☕Actual Rating: 3.5 Stars “The world was mostly entropy and chaos; magic, then, was order, because it was control.” The Atlas Six has been getting much attention lately and I only heard about it from a friend and then suddenly started seeing it everywhere. Apparently the success of this book comes to TikTok because it got a lot of marketing from there. I thought that it was the author’s debut but I am very wrong as Blake has a lot of books under her belt!In this world, the Library of Alexandria is not lost but rather hidden and sic of the people with the best magical abilities are given the opportunity to initiate and gain wealth and power, the problem is that only five can be initiated so they have to compete between themselves and one must be eliminated.This is a book with a magical school setting mixed with dark academia so it can be a bit of a niche. The book has a great start when we are introduced to the characters and their abilities and how they are recruited. The book loses its direction a bit after that because it has its ups and downs until it picks up again toward the end. It is an adult book since the characters are adults and it deals with adult subjects but sometimes I felt the book was trying hard and it felt a bit YA-ish or New adult. The characters are unique but they are pretentious sometimes (Kind of reminds me of Sally Rooney’s characters) and I kept confusing between Callum and Tristan. Writing multiple POVs is quite hard so I can cut the author some slack. I have to applaud the including of characters illustrations which made them easier to imagine and I wish more authors did that!The magic system is both confusing and interesting at the same time, I mean for the most part it was not hard to follow each power individually but sometimes it tried to become more complicated or magics integrated together and then it would be confusing. “The problem with knowledge, is its inexhaustible craving. the more of it you have, the less you feel you know” The plot is strongest at the beginning and ending, in the middle it becomes kind of redundant and predictable and I think a bit too long. There should have been more focus on fleshing out the characters and giving more explanations rather than doing that at the last chapter.Summary: The Atlas Six is a good book that certainly has potential. I enjoyed the beginning and the ending the most and felt it fell down a bit in the middle. The writing is good, the characters are unique but sometimes their actions felt forced and they were pretentious. I do believe book two will be better so I will probably read it when it comes out!
4028576447	SO SO GOOD EVERYONE GO READ THIS RIGHT NOW!!This book is so insanely well-written I don't even know where to start.-Characters! All of the characters have complex, unique, flushed out personalities. All of them are wonderfully, intensely flawed. Whether you love em or hate em -- each character evokes a strong emotional reaction from the reader.-Relationships! The wonderfully complex characters make for equally wonderful, equally complex relationships. Think: academic rivals, begrudging friendships, sexual tension between LITERALLY EVERYONE, unlikely partnerships, intense hatred, manipulation that might turn into more, EVERYONE IS GAY, powerful alliances, and KNIFE SCENE (if you know you know). -Science & Magic! The relationship between science, magic, and the people who wield them is so, SO excellently explored. This is more than just a fantasy novel; it explores so many different themes from multiple perspectives. It investigates not only what it would take to push the boundaries of time itself, but what that could mean for humanity as a whole. This book tackles advanced scientific topics while remaining fairly accessible to those who don't know much about them WITHOUT dumbing anything down. Its very impressive.-The Writing! I'm obsessed with Olivie Blake's writing style. You can tell how intelligent she is not only from her exploration of science and physics but from how she utilizes words. She not only brings her characters to life, she brings everything to life. The scenes read like a cinematic experience and she turns things like time and magic and space into characters. I can't quite describe it.I'd give this 1,000 stars if I could. A truly magical experience.
7302148904	I’m on BookTube now! =)”Knowledge is carnage. You can’t have it without sacrifice.”It’s very rare for me to start writing a review right after I finished the book, yet this is exactly what I’m doing right now. “The Atlas Six” is one of those stories you have to analyse as long as everything is fresh in your mind because otherwise you might forget things. Memory is a tricky thing that can bend to your will if you’re not careful enough so I decided to go for this review (or most likely essay) as soon as possible after finishing the book. There are just too many puzzle pieces to remember them all later on, which in itself is a testament to the author’s intricate writing style and especially the amazing character building Olivie Blake went for in this book. Also and let me make this clear right from the start: If you don’t like character driven stories or morally grey characters then you most certainly won’t enjoy this one. In “The Atlas Six” we have six different POVs and every character has its own voice, thoughts, feelings and troubles to deal with. All six of them are unique and distinguished and I’m pretty sure I would have know in which head we were even if their names wouldn’t have been written at the beginning of every chapter. I loved them all for different reasons and even though there were some people we didn’t get too see all too much of, I’m certain the author will rectify that in the next book. Olivie Blake strikes me as an author who knows exactly how to build up her character arcs and world so I’m very intrigued what she’s going to throw at us in the next book. As for this one: It lives and breathes from the characters and the interactions between them. There really isn’t a lot of plot going on and we don’t see all too much of the world building, but I think that’s mainly due to the fact that the author wanted to give us a good grasp at her main characters and what they are capable of. (e.g. lots of intrigues, schemes and manipulations among each other) This was some sort of warm up for the second and third book of the series and I’m not mad about it because it was done so masterfully! Still, I really want to find out more about the Alexandrian library and how the Alexandrians operated for centuries. I’m just very intrigued by this world and all the characters we got to know. There’s always more than initially meets the eye and every single one of those MCs had layer upon layer. Just like an onion, but you never truly get to the core. XD I loved it. So, so much! Anyway! Before I continue in this vein and this overall review gets even longer than it already is, I’ll just go for my in depth character analysis instead. I know this is going to be a long one, so buckle up, get yourself a beverage of your choosing and come along for the ride! ;-)(Also: If you want to read my unshortened 5.200 words long essay that takes a deep dive into Atlas, Ezra, the Parisa/Callum and Nico/Gideon dynamic you can do it: here!The characters: Welcome to the Library of Alexandria! Where you’ll find immeasurable knowledge but also many spoilers and facts you probably don’t want to know. Knowledge is a double-edged sword so tread carefully when you decide to enter those hallowed halls of wisdom! ;-P Libby Rhodes:”Ambition was such a dirty word, so tainted, but she had it. She was enslaved by it. There was so much ego to the concept of fate, but she needed to cling to it. She needed to believe that she was meant for enormity; that the fulfilment of a destiny could make for the privilege of salvation, even if it didn’t feel that way right now.”Let’s start with Libby first! It strikes me as interesting that this is legit the only quote I saved from Libby and I think it’s due to the fact that the author decided to keep her on surface level?! I mean throughout the entire book we’re told that Libby is extremely powerful and that she could be so much more if she’d just go for the knowledge and power she craves. But she doesn’t because in contrast to the others she’s actually a decent person whose moral compass is still intact. Or in short: Her conscience is holding her back which seemed to be the overall theme and struggle of her character. I wonder what will happen once she decides to throw all caution to the wind and bends morality to her own will. Maybe we’ll find out in the next book? It seems to me like Blake wants to go in a certain direction with Libby and I’m pretty sure it’s some sort of dark descent storyline. If I’m right I can’t wait to find out how the author is going to write her corruption arc because in “The Atlas Six” Libby was nothing but a model student. Parisa’s influence might have changed that, though. Nico de Varona:"By the sound of his swearing, Nico guessed American, maybe CIA. That, he thought with a shiver of anticipation, would be very exciting indeed. He had never been important enough to merit assassination before."And here I am once again surprised that I only wrote down one Nico quote! Then again, this still fits his character profile, because the entire book Nico is more like the other side of a coin or the other half of a whole. We have it in the dynamic with Libby and we have it in his relationship with Gideon. Yet despite it all Nico was a very intriguing character because in contrast to Libby he knows that he’s powerful and hasn’t been corrupted by it. Yet. It’s apparent that he thrives when he’s using his abilities and that if he’d allow himself to be corrupted, he could be a force to be reckoned with. I think none of the others truly sees him as a threat because he gives off some serious happy puppy energy; they’d be foolish to underestimate him, though. Nico is fiercely protective of those he cares about and Libby as well as Gideon are both at the top of his priority list. There’s so much potential in him and quite honestly the fact we found out that he died when he turned into an animal for Gideon the first time, was something I didn’t expect. Callum only stated, that Nico’s magic kept him alive but I can’t help but wonder to which extent and if his body has been resurrected or if he’s just made of raw power now?! I need more info than that and I hope the next book will provide it! Tristan Caine:"Any rare glimpses of optimism were swiftly dealt with, like a virus his mind and body leapt to attack. Feelings of hope? Cancerous. Maybe it was systemic, a matter of lifelong institutional mistrust. There was a constant sensation for Tristan that if things seemed to be going well, he was in the process of being mightily tricked."Okay, let’s go for Tristan next. Libby and Nico are both physicists, which is only logical and made sense, but Tristan is introduced as an illusionist and I’m not sure if that is the right term for him. I mean after all, he’s able to see through illusions and not to create them himself. Therefore, I think there’s way more to his character and abilities than initially meets the eye. Also right at the beginning Atlas told him that his powers are rarer than he thinks and there was that moment when he saw Ezra in a different dimension. So, I think whatever Tristan is, he’s not an illusionist. He’s the opposite of an illusionist (whatever that is) and his powers might be even rooted in being a physicist?! I mean if I got it correctly, physicists can manipulate the world around them to their whims and if he sees through illusions he is manipulating them, right?! At least that’s my take on things and the logic in my brain. *lol* Also I really liked Tristan because he was an honest person and kinda my kryptonite by being a broken boy. His childhood and his relationship with his father made him very cynical and distrustful, yet the one person that got truly close to him was Callum who hurt him even more. Poor Tristan. I really felt sorry for him and I don’t even want to know what Callum planted in his mind. One thing is for certain, nothing good can come out of this. >_<Parisa Kamali:”Well, because to you, sex is purely physical, when in fact the mind opens along with everything else,” said Parisa. “To try to overpower someone’s mind, to make it subject to my own, is a waste of time. When he’s inside me I hardly have to lift a finger to know precisely what he is, what he wants. He’ll tell me so himself without my asking. And why impress my demands unnecessarily, wasting energy and effort? I can make people loyal to me simply by offering them something they want above all else, which costs me nothing to give.”Well, Parisa is nothing but practical and considering her past and the way she’s been abused I’m not surprised she acted the way she did. She’s one of those women that know who they are and what they are capable of and she has no qualms to use her abilities to her advantage. Considering her special telepathic powers, you might say she lets herself be used in order to gain what she wants. I found it interesting that she drew the line at using Nico, though. He was the only combatant (aside of Reina) she didn’t toy with and I wonder why that is. I don’t buy her “I would ruin you because you’d fall for me with all your heart” bullshit. Parisa is more calculating and conniving than that. And let’s not forget the fact she chose Nico’s mind as a safety net when Callum tried to push her into suicide. Why Nico of all people?! I need answers to that because knowing Parisa everything she does, she does with an ulterior motive! Next to Callum she was definitely the most cunning and manipulative character out of all six and there’s more to uncover. I can’t help but wonder if dying in Nico’s mind will cause some repercussions for her, though. So far we didn’t see any but maybe in the next book? Also I get why she chose Dalton as a love interest, I mean to gain knowledge and information through him was a smart move. I suppose she got way more than she bargained for through their affair, though. I wonder what she’ll uncover in “The Atlas Paradox” with the help of the others. Callum Nova:"You have no interest in knowing about the opportunity itself, Mr. Nova?""If I want it, it's mine," Callum said, shrugging. "I can always wait and make that decision later. More interesting than the game is always the players, you know. Well, I suppose more accurately," he amended, "the game is different depending on the players."Boy, Callum was such a manipulative little shit! That man is arrogant af and knows exactly what he’s doing and how to use his powers in order to f*ck with people’s minds. I swear, this one is a force to be reckoned with and the others better continue to be wary of him. The interesting thing about him is that he’s already morally grey when the book starts and that none of the others anticipated how far he’d go in order to get what he wants. I think to coin him as a psychopath like Parisa did, won’t help, though. From what I gathered from the little he told Tristan about himself, he has “daddy issues” too so I suppose that might have been one thing that drew him to Tristan. He even admitted, that his mother wouldn’t be alive if he wouldn’t have anchored her to him and forced her to live on. There seems to be an entire world of feelings underneath his cool and calculating exterior and that makes him one of the most intriguing but also most volatile and dangerous characters of the book. I wonder what is going to happen once he’s not able to suppress his emotions any longer. As for his abilities: I think he’s not just an empath that likes to toy with people’s minds and feelings but also some sort of illusionist? At least Tristan could see through his illusions regarding his appearance so I can only assume that he can also manipulate illusions. Either way, pride goes before a fall and I think we witnessed his, when he tried to kill Parisa and Tristan. Reina Mori:”There was such a thing as asking too much, and she had known the demands of others all her life. Even, or perhaps especially, the demands of those who had not wanted her at all.”I gotta be honest here: Reina is some sort of a wildcard! She’s introduced as a naturalist which means she can manipulate plants and nature, yet she seems to be different than other naturalists because it seems like plants are drawn to her and want to absorb her energy and life essence. Because of that she always puts a lid on her abilities in order to survive and not to be drained by her own powers, which sounds exhausting. I suppose this is also the only reason why she joined the initiation process. All Reina wants is knowledge and answers and she doesn’t seem to care for anything else. All the intrigues and manipulations of her fellow students don’t seem to concern her and she mostly keeps to herself throughout the course of the first book. Truth be told, at the moment it seems like Nico is the only person who managed to befriend her. I wonder if we’ll see more of Reina in the next instalment. There’s a lot of potential to her character but we only got to see the surface so I’m very curious if that’s going to change in book two. The relationships & ships:Libby & Nico:"If not for her, Nico might not have noticed most of the things he did, and probably vice versa. A uniquely upsetting curse, really, how little he knew how to exist when she wasn't there; his only source of pleasure was knowing she probably felt the same whenever she could bring herself to stomach the admission."Libby and Nico might be one of the greatest love stories never told! I mean, come on! No one can tell me they aren’t meant for each other. Everyone sees them as two sides of a coin and their anger and hatred for each other solely stems from the fact that they spent so much time fighting each other for recognition in the eyes of people that will never even understand their unique connection. They know each other better than anyone else, the simple fact Nico noticed every shift in Libby’s mood and vice versa a dead giveaway that they are something like soul mates. Whenever Libby argued with Ezra I was like: Girl, you love Nico, why are you wasting your time with Ez? I mean by the end of the book Nico even spells it out for Libby and I wanted to shake her to make her listen!! Nico literally told her that she’s too good for Ezra and that he won’t survive her dying. Libby give that poor boy a break and LISTEN to what he says! But well, the book ended how it ended and Nico was devastated when they found Libby’s body (or what they think is her). I kinda hope Libby will break free from that weird prison in another dimension and that Nico and her will end up being together. You can always hope and dream, right? *lol* All I know is that those two aren’t finished yet and that Nico will do everything in his power to bring Libby back and if that’s not love, then I dunno. Tristan & Callum:”The truth is I don’t want to hurt you,” Callum told him softly. “This, what I’m doing to you, I would never have done it if not to save you. To save us. You no longer wish to trust me,” he acknowledged, “I understand that, but I cannot let you keep your distance. You need to know what my magic tastes like, how it feels, so that you will recognize the absence of it. You need to know pain from my hands, Tristan. You need me to hurt you so that you can finally learn the difference between torture and love.”Those two were killing me! No, I mean it. Their friendship/relationship or whatever is going on between them is so toxic and destructive, yet I still couldn’t get enough of them. I think it’s the way they are always tense around each other. They don’t trust each other but they are drawn to each other like a moth to a flame and I think not even Callum is able to pinpoint the reason why. Their chemistry and intensity was off the charts and as weird and crazy as it might sound, I think Callum fell first. Yes, you read right! He never made a secret of his feelings for Tristan, but I think he’s so broken that he doesn’t know how to love him. If that makes any sense?! The moment Tristan found out that Callum had betrayed him and played with his mind and perception was tough and I felt with him when he cursed. Still, things got worse from there on out and those two ended up being at each other’s throat. That scene when Tristan tried to kill Callum and he hurt him instead?! Damn, I was at the edge of my seat! It was so intense! Also despite the fact that Callum claimed he wanted to kill Tristan, I don’t think he would have gone through with it. I mean why hurt him with his magic to make him feel “how it tastes” when he’s truly manipulating him? It didn’t sound like he wanted to kill him, it sounded like he wanted to make him understand. By hurting Tristan he pushed him even farther away, though, and no matter how much Callum seems to love him, I can almost guarantee that those two won’t have a HEA. Their relationship is way too complicated and toxic to end well, but I’m definitely along for the ride to see where it takes them. Conclusion:“The Atlas Six” was different than I expected it to be, but I still enjoyed every second of it. I mean when I went into this story I expected an intricate plot and world building, two things that clearly weren’t this books forte. What I got was an extremely character driven and atmospheric book instead and I’m glad to say that I’m not mad about it. I get the disappointment of some readers, but I personally lived and breathed for the intrigues, manipulations and all the chemistry and tension between the characters. I thrive on human relationships and people’s dynamics in the stories I read, so this was perfect for me. Blake totally delivered when it comes to the development of deeper human connections and complex interpersonal relationships. Something I can’t always say about every author. All told, the characters clearly were Blake’s main focus, but if you love character driven books and can live with a little bit of plot and world building, then this book certainly will be for you, too! ;-) Find me on:My BlogInstagram
4087098177	4.5 for one of the best debut I’ve ever read.A few things I would let go, but HELL YEAH!
3891865156	OKAY LISTEN HI HELLO THIS BOOK CHANGED MY LIFEso i saw this randomly on tumblr (as one does) and checked it out on a whim, and then i saw all the goodreads reviews were GLOWING and i was really intrigued by the cover and THEN i heard it was about THE LIBRARY OF ALEXANDRIA? and so naturally, i decided to try it. and literally from the first page, i was HOOKED. obsessed. star struck. it is so rare to find a book where the concept is not only original and compelling...but it's also EXECUTED near perfectly. and that is this book. it defied any expectations i could have had because it had every thing i look for in a book. and it did it WELL. beyond well. it was...practically flawless. i am an easy to please reader. give me a compelling concept and regardless of how well you execute it, i will probably enjoy myself and find some redeeming qualities. but this book? the EXECUTION was INCREDIBLE!!!! it was like the perfect volley up into the air and then SLAMMED into the ground for the winning point. i still have no idea how she planned it all so well goddamn. i will be holding this book close to my chest for the rest of forever. it's like...if the starless sea met inception met if we were villains met the umbrella academy (tv show) met the thornchapel series met this super random movie after the dark (2013) that i saw at the beach once. which is the most random assortment of things, but goddamn. it's so perfect? and i know it shouldn't matter if it's self-published or traditionally published but somehow it's even more magical that it's indie. i have such a terrible habit of ignoring self-pubbed books because...well, generally the graphic design they have for their books is not good...but DAMN like this DESERVES to be at a big five. it deserves a netflix show and a million fans and great fanart and just WOW. not only did i fall in love with all of the main characters, but i couldn't get enough of the twists!!! there were enough clues that everything fit into place but it only fit in at the proper moment because that's how well written it was. the writing style was so beautifully hilarious while also being lyrical and poetic. somehow we still had room for quotes on philosophy and morality and history and science? and there was EXTENSIVE MAGIC INVOLVED? THAT MADE SENSE???OH AND IT'S GAY? WITHOUT EXCESSIVE ROMANCE? AND IT'S DARK ACADEMIA? guys you're not realizing just how much i wanted every single thing about this book and it's....all in one book. it's just so RARE. AND THERE IS A SEQUEL COMING? i'm dumbfounded. i keep being wowed that there are more stories out there for me to fall in love with, but this is seriously a cult classic and i'm telling everybody to go read it.also i personally headcanon reina as ace but maybe that's just me
3878318024	Buddy read with lovely Ashley (x2!)This book was brilliant. Beautifully written, the author’s prose powerfully depicted the struggles and strengths of each character, and the complicated and conflicting relationships between each person was fascinating. It was insanely confusing at times, but also magical and lyrical, and just had such stunning vibes. This is a very character driven book. Each character in this book was so real, so incredibly life-like that they almost jumped off the page and slapped me in the face, daring me to so much as try to tear my eyes off these pages. They were bold and beautiful and complex, but that doesn’t mean you’ll love them all – because you won’t, especially not at first – but lord, they were so POWERFUL. And each extraordinary character was emphasised with the gorgeous artworks by Little Chmura, which I adored (bring back illustrated books!).This book was often confusing - full of inner monologue and complex theory - but even though half of it went over my head, I was still intrigued. The brain of Olivie Blake astounds me, and I’m so excited to read more of her works. (Also I ADORED the bond between Nico and Libby - whether platonic or not, I need more of them STAT. They’re everything to me!)
5177527240	This is a hard book to review because it’s good, but all the characters are terrible people. Did I enjoy reading about them? Maybe in a twisted kind of way where I couldn’t bring myself to look away from their messiness. If you’ve ever watched bad reality TV, you know what I’m talking about. You watch because you want to see people run face-first into the consequences of their actions.The Atlas Six is like that. It’s also like if Harry Potter and The Magicians and Vita Nostra and A Deadly Education had a baby. The setting and the magic and the high stakes all felt very familiar. That’s not to say this book is derivative, but it’s not the most original magical school story I’ve read.Where it stands out is the plot. Six highly gifted young magicians are invited to join an elite society responsible for maintaining the legendary Library of Alexandria, which, it turns out, didn’t burn. All the other previous “graduates” from the program have gone on to have illustrious careers and are recognized as some of the most powerful magic-wielders in existence.But there’s a catch. Only five of them will advance into the next year, and how the sixth one is eliminated is just as ruthless as you’d expect from the dark academia genre.I will say that if you go into this hoping for a lot of detail about magic and spells and the supernatural, maybe shift your expectations. There is some, but this is much more a character-driven story, and a lot of page space is dedicated to the internal musings of six people that range from neurotic to sociopathic to apathetic. They are all power-hungry in their own way, though they try to tell themselves they’re in the program for more honorable reasons – the search for knowledge, chief among them. “The problem with knowledge is its inexhaustible craving. The more of it you have, the less you feel you know” While the main characters can be difficult to like or relate to, it’s hard to deny the fact that they’re all compelling in their own way. Blake does a great job with their backstories, adding small nuggets of information here and there like a scattered bread trail. I gobbled each one up along the way, hoping that at the end, I would have a better understanding of these people and their motivations.I did, and that’s what makes me want to continue the series more than anything else. Also, that plot twist at the very end had me shook. Did NOT see that one coming.If you don’t have to love your main characters to enjoy a book, definitely give this one a try. It’s a solid addition to any dark academia TBR.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest | YouTube
5044833243	Ich weiß nicht, ob es mir je so schwer gefallen ist, meine Meinung zu greifen. Aber das beschreibt "The Atlas Six" eigentlich bereits ganz gut: Verwirrung. Viele Zusammenhänge und (das Warum hinter den) Charakterdynamiken blieb bis zuletzt unklar. Was eventuell darin begründet liegt, dass so gut wie nichts richtig erklärt wird. Nicht wie die Welt aufgebaut ist, wie das Magiesystem funktioniert (!!), wie das Setting aussieht, warum manche Handlungen vollzogen werden (müssen). Vieles wird der Interpretation überlassen, so bleibt eine eindeutige Logik aus. Es wird beschrieben, dass die Charaktere an wissenschaftlichen Theorien forschen, aber was genau sie tun und erreichen wollen, warum es ihnen so wichtig wird, bleibt unklar. Die Sprache ist zudem sehr komplex, die Dialoge philosophisch. Allgemein besteht dieses Buch hauptsächlich aus den Dialogen zwischen den Charakteren, der Plot bleibt an einigen Stellen zurück. Letztendlich waren es dann die moralisch-grauen, zum Teil sehr unsympathischen Charaktere, die mich doch gebannt haben. Sie unterscheiden sich stark voneinander, in ihrer Einzigartigkeit wurden sie greifbar und faszinierend. Reina kam mir leider viel zu kurz und hatte im Grunde kaum Relevanz für die Geschichte, aber in ihnen allen liegt viel Potential. Auch wenn ich wirklich viel an diesem Buch nicht mochte (oder nicht verstanden habe haha), übte die Geschichte eine starke Sogwirkung auf mich aus. Es war fesselnd und außergewöhnlich. Ich mochte das Lesen, ich sehe das Potential. Jedoch ist es kein Buch, das ich vorbehaltlos empfehlen kann und es war durchaus anders als erwartet
6379486399	Okay I’m writing this on June 30 at 10:10pm, AKA less than two hours before Pride Month ends and I have to say this book had me shaking and screaming in a good way. I read The Atlas Six over the course of two days and I was so, so into it the whole time. The novel follows six magic users selected to potentially join to the mysterious and illustrious Alexandrian Society. However, only five of them will be initiated – so for one year, they must fight it out to survive and prove themselves worthy, with dire consequences for whoever does not.I want to start by saying I was so impressed by the characterization in this book. Olivie Blake pulled off the truly incredible and difficult feat of including *six* different characters/points of view and somehow making all of them distinct and memorable. While I am absolutely 100% Team Parisa (I love a bad b*tch of color who knows her worth), I was so into learning about the other characters and their strengths and vulnerabilities. I think Blake is a talented writer because to pull of six quality points of view, she had to be super intentional about how she setup the exposition of the novel, the ordering of the chapters (e.g., whose perspectives should show up when), the wording within each characters’ chapters, etc. So hats off. I also loved the setup of The Atlas Six. Fantasy is a genre I dip my toes in but don’t always read because I’m more interested in characterization than world-building. I felt that this book was *perfect* for my taste because it’s so focused on the characters’ internal reactions and relationships with one another with minimal world-building. Basically, Blake puts these deeply flawed and human characters into a dorm-style setup where they basically just interact with each other nonstop. They don’t trust each other but they also lust for each other but they also need to build alliances with one another to survive?? As a psychology girlie I f*cking loved it, the mind games and the attempts at manipulation and the moments of genuine connection UGH.Blake’s writing floored me too. It was so, so good. I felt that she did an amazing job of making every word serve the purpose of either characterizing one of the six or introducing tension into their relationships with one another, or both. I found her prose tight, snippy, and conveyed the perfect balance of tension and release to keep me on the edge of my seat. I am not exaggerating when I tell you that my body was literally thrumming in anticipation at the 70% mark for the conclusion of this book. Ugh, Parisa please end me. I was so obsessed with her character thriving that I internally thought to myself “I would literally go on not one but TWO dates with mediocre men for her to get what she deserves.”I give this book four stars instead of five because when I take a step back (from fanboying my girl Parisa) I don’t feel that Blake said anything too profound about power or the world generally with this book. And even though the characters were distinct from one another and developed, I didn’t feel too deeply about them in regard to their backstories – I felt more so entertained by the relational dynamics occurring in the present. Still, I already put the second book on hold at the library. I’m shaking in anticipation and also curious because the third book in the series literally has less than a 3-star average rating on Goodreads which is wild but I’ll cross that bridge once I finish book two! Would love to hear thoughts and reactions from other people who read this book (and no I will not tolerate any Parisa slander in the comments.)
5443667020	—reread—While I loved this book before, I can honestly say I love it more now. All the characters, with their flaws and disagreements, have a place in my heart. I think I also appreciate how beautiful Olivie Blake’s writing is now, and I can’t wait to continue my reread of this series.—4 stars—“Knowledge is carnage. You can’t have it without sacrifice.”————about the book————Age: New AdultGenres: Dark Academia, Paranormal,Writing: 8/10Quotes: 7/10World building: 7/10Characters: 8/10Romance: 6/10My rating: 8/10‼️small spoilers below‼️———my feelings———Every decade, six of the world’s best magicians are invited to join the elite Alexandrian Society. After a year of arcane study, the six candidates must survive the trials, and, to be fully initiated, one of them must die. For while there are six magicians, only five spaces are offered.But who will live, and who will die?This was enthralling.A beautifully crafted world, twisted characters, plots, schemes, and betrayals, it was everything I ask for in a dark academia. It was one of those books where you’re just so completely involved in the book, that you look up, and you’ve read more than a hundred pages.The characters in particular were perfectly morally-grey and ruthless!Of the six of them, I definitely had my favourites (*cough* LIBBY AND NICO *cough*) and there were definitely people I disliked. But I liked some of them at points, hated them at others, I couldn’t make up my mind.And that, I see as masterful writing of characters. Book characters can at times be too perfect, too unrealistic—so much so that you wouldn’t believe that they could fight, or win.But these characters practically oozed ruthlessness, manipulative streaks, they would all use what they had to win, and fuck the consequences.That said, the book is mostly character driven, with far more dialogue than action.Another thing I really enjoyed was the descriptions of magic! Especially Parisa’s magic—which was beautifully written (view spoiler)[ especially when Dalton’s mind was described (hide spoiler)], and as someone who loves physics, I found Nico and Libby’s magic fascinating! and, how the plants talked to Reina was terrifying! It actually sent shivers up my spine!The few things that bothered me about this book were mostly how unpolished the world and magic system felt.Maybe it was just me, but I felt as though I’d been dropped right into the world without very much information. (However, on rereading, I’ve realised that it’s actually a very interesting technique and just how Olivie Blake writes. She doesn’t like to give you information easily, and I like that.)————quotes————“But as the world itself will tell you, something put in motion will not stop.”“And so five stood where there had once been six.”“We all have our own curses. Our own blessings.”———random extra thoughts———Tbh the reasons I picked this up was mostly that Holly Black has a quoted review on the back of it, and the name reminded me of Six of Crows😅Thanks for reading!❤️
4134321262	i really really thought this book was gonna be a favorite but i just felt that the plot wasn’t done well and that the author could have done so much more with the characters. I’m not kidding everyone slept with literally everyone and there was no stable romantic relationship between any of the characters. i think i really would have liked it if the book was longer and if the author made stable relationships between characters. it was basically the meme of Oprah saying “you die!” “you die!” “you die!” but with characters sleeping with each other.then there was what you might call a twist at the end but ended up just feeling like a weird explanation. if there were some more world building and just sort explaining what the characters regular lives were (because the author sort of skipped around a lot) it would have been a lot more enjoyable.i actually really liked all the characters (especially Parisa) but i didn’t like how they were all dealt with necessarily. it was almost (no disrespect to the author but) like the characters were things that the author moved around other than actual people if you know what i mean. i also found it really helpful that there was character fanart in the book,.believe it or not, i actually kind of liked this book, but i DEFINITELY think that it could have been better.
3856976549	What an intelligent, engaging, construction of magic based on physics and philosophy story. I loved the dark academia elements, the cynicism, the unexpected twists. And the impeccable execution and writing style only catapulted this book to the next level.This book is damn smart. All the conversations about magic, time, space... were so well crafted. The different types of magic and how people used them based on our current world was very original and clever. But even when The Atlas Six’s world building is incredible and complex and rich, the real beauty of this story, the heart of the Atlas Six are the characters.I fell in love with all these complex, morally grey, profoundly flawed and human characters. I’m in awe at the masterfully way Olivie Blake managed to create relationships and then make them evolve and change in very unexpected ways. All the dynamics were to die for.Going in, I thought I knew which couples I prefered. Then at one point, the plot took me on a wild turn and my ships were completely different. And by the end, my only coherent thought was, why not adding polyamory to the equation? It’s the only option that makes sense. I'm pretty sure almost every character is queer so that helps for a constant wonder of "are they gonna kill or kiss each other?" which I absolutely adored. The way these characters' dynamic took me in unexpected ways was a delight.My favorites were Libby, Tristan and Parisa. Close seconds were Nico and Gideon. The plants (yes, you read that one right) hold a special place in my heart, as well. They were so cute and funny and kinda catty in an unexpected way for... well, plants.The ending, even though I saw some of it coming, was still very engaging and fun. In general, this is such a fun book to read! Even with all the heavy topics and tragic backstories, I just felt almost giddy while reading. It was engaging in a way that made me crave more.I can't believe I played myself this way and now I have to wait a year for the next book, tho. 🤡more interesting than the game is always the players, you know. —read the atlas six by @OlivieBlake to meet my favourite smart, sexy, morally corrupted ot6 🙄 pic.twitter.com/VBDKqueFk8— villain laur ☄️ (@LIBBYSFIRE) March 29, 2021
