3701756928	”'Cause agony brings no rewardFor one more hit and one last scoreDon't be a casualty, cut the cord”CUT THE CORD – ShinedownI want to thank Mike Thorn for granting me the opportunity to read this story in exchange for a unbiased review.And, I also want to add, even though I almost talked myself out of it, I approached the author for this ARC because the description sounded interesting to me.The quote I started with – ossum song – is about addiction. My feeling about this story touches on the battle of addiction, even though it is done subtly. When I think back, the first real scary story I can remember about the subject was CHRISTINE by Stephen King. In that story, the geeky kid sees this car and it talks to him, subconsciously, and it becomes the most important – maybe the ONLY – thing in his life. The transformation in that story also had supernatural element, but at the core of that tale lies a battle with addiction, of being unable to help yourself even though it changes you for the worse.In this story we are looking at a shack. Teenager Mark and his two friends discover it in the middle of a field, abandoned and a good place to smoke some cigarettes. But Mark is drawn to it in a way the other two can’t understand. Nobody really knows him and nobody really understands him, neither adults nor other teenagers. He has a reputation as a troublemaker and a weird person, which alienates him even more from everybody else in his life. But he feels safe and welcome in the shack.When you get down to it, feeling misunderstood and strange in your own skin is a very common occurrence for teenagers the world over. When the opportunity to be accepted presents itself, most will jump at the chance, consequences be damned. That is the most dangerous time in most people’s life – for they can only hope that fate will get them to the other side – sane and in one piece: Pretty much like going to a Miley Cyrus concert.This story might be somewhat of a slow burn and there is a subtlety to the progression which makes this one of the least goriest horrors I have read in a long time. You will ask yourself, at some stage, if this kid is schizophrenic. Is everything only taking place in his head? Is he, perhaps, a born psychopath or is he turning into one?And I’m not going to ruin it for the readers. This story is solid, yet not as scary as perhaps esoteric in the final battle with the thing/himself. There may be elements to it which will be hard to digest for someone who is only looking for light reading – this story does not fall into that category.The only real criticism I have about this book is feeling a little unsure about the way Mark is – why, exactly, did he turn out so strange? I would have liked a little more info on his past, since the answer is not revealed at the end.Recommended to horror fans not looking for cheap, easy thrills...*Originally reviewed at IndieMuse* https://www.myindiemuse.com/author/mo...
4020451751	3-4 stars.This was a shortish horror read that a few of my friends had enjoyed so I thought I’d check it out. Now that I’ve read it I’m not totally sure what to make of it. Mark is an adolescent boy struggling to be accepted. He has two friends - Adam and Scott. Mark is an oddball and has anger issues but that’s not exactly unusual for teenaged boys. They come across a strange shack in a field and Mark persuades his fiends to go inside. To the friends it’s just a place to hang out and smoke but to Mark it’s something entirely different. He feels a sense of comfort within its embrace. But soon the friends lose interest and Mark gets more obsessed with the shack until it seems the shack, or an entity within it, is trying to control him and force him to do unspeakable things.I understand that a lot of it is metaphorical and that, on one level, the story is talking about toxic masculinity but maybe it was a bit lost on me. I didn’t find the book scary, the horror wasn’t subtle enough for that but rather in-your-face scary monster horror that may or may not have been purely a product of Mark’s imagination. The distinction isn’t important as, either way, Mark experienced the fear. I don’t know - was Mark experiencing these things to give legitimacy to his inexplicable rages or is he feeling that confused by his ineffectual parents and feelings of disempowerment. The philosophical questions are interesting but could be addressed in a variety of other ways too. Did I enjoy the book? I’m not even sure about that. I’m still exploring the horror genre and have a few other books stashed away for later reading.
3699450769	DNF @ 62% I'm finally deciding to part ways with this book.I really wanted to get through it, as I received a copy from the author in exchange for a review.However it's just really dragging for me and becoming such a chore to read so I'm finishing up just past the halfway mark.The story follows delinquent Mark, who is always getting into trouble. He's a troubled boy, so when he finds a shack in the middle of nowhere that seems to call to him, he finds it hard to stay away. But evil is at work, here, and things are not going to end well for Mark and his friends ...It's actually not a bad story. The writing is pretty decent and invocative and the characters are fleshed out well. I just found it all terribly slow and dull, and there was more about Mark's personal problems than anything particularly spooky so I just got a bit bored by it all. By the time things started getting a bit creepy, I was skimming too much to be properly affected by it.I fully admit that I'm notoriously terrible with e-books, though, so the format definitely affected how slowly I read it, and reading it over a longer period of time may have likely influenced how drawn out the story felt.It's probably worth a go to most horror lovers, as it seemed a unique concept to me. However be prepared for a slow build up to the horror.With thanks to the author for a copy
3879907964	Shelter for the Damned spins a tale of teenage rage and angst mirrored with the events occurring in the shack. Set the scene…A shack in the middle of a field, it has an exorable pull to the protagonist, Mark. It almost calls to him like a voice in the wind, a siren call. Thorn has a cutthroat ability to reel you in, a writing style so sharp and penetrating that it threatens to tear you open, layer by layer. It is a brutal examination of the emotions and turmoil that teenagers battle with. Shelter for the Damned felt like the lovechild of Barker and King. I’m not a huge fan of comparisons but it screamed to me. The artistic and almost poetic narrative created a chasm that I couldn’t help staring down at, like the shelter it pulled me in and swallowed me whole – I was helpless to fight it. Thorn takes an almost harmless object and displays just how splitting it wide open will release the wretchedness of human nature. Although I’ve made a massive comparison, I believe that Thorn had the edge with his originality and cunning. I enjoyed the development of Mark although it was at times ghastly. If I were to sum up Shelter for the Damned – it spirals like an avalanche. The story gains traction and if you don’t have your wits about you – you will also end up buried. The story features the main protagonist, Mark and his two friends, Scott and Adam. Whilst out pissing about they come across a shack that they haven’t noticed before. After much argument and discourse they decide it would be the perfect place to smoke cigarettes. Instantly you get the suggestion that the shack isn’t everything it pertains to be. Mark feels an invisible pull to it, its not long before he wants to go again. He tries to convince his friends who are understandably unwilling. He sneaks away again and decides that he doesn’t want to share it with his friends now…it is his. Mark appears to have psychological connection with the shack. Mark is an exceedingly difficult character to connect with, he fights and prods at people, his friends included, until they snap. He reminds me of a fuse just simmering away under the surface, it doesn’t take much for him to explode. A fractious relationship with his father, which, no mistaking is abusive. He also seems to have an anger problem and prefers to deal out punishment by means of pain and gaslighting. Its not an excuse for Mark’s behaviour but there are means to suggest he’s learnt by example. He’s a boy that feels no-one understands him and doesn’t feel comfortable in his own skin – hasn’t everyone felt like that at some point. The events that take place in the shack are haunting and it mirrors just how quickly things spiral out of control for Mark. He becomes increasingly violent. I wondered if the shack was more resemblant of his mind – his fantasies of violence and aggression. Shelter for the Damned is an absorbing read with a creeping sense of unease. Brutal and relentless.
3746976737	Nobody has it easy being a teenager. I think being a teen and navigating the expectations of school, parents, and teachers is probably one of the toughest parts of growing up. Mark and his pals Adam and Scott just want a place to hang out so they can smoke a cigarette in secret. Mark in particular has a rough time at school. He's unable to control the burgeoning rage inside him, and so he is continuously caught fighting and sent to the principal's office. His parents try hard to connect with him, but they don't understand him at all, and at times the rage that burns through Mark comes out in his dad, who has come close to physically punishing his son on a few occasions. The boys need an escape, and so one night when they stumble upon a shack in the middle of a field, they decide to check it out and have a couple of smokes inside.The shack has an effect on Mark that the other boys are unaware of. The moment they step inside it gives him a since of warmth and security, and almost like a drug, Mark begins to crave the feelings the shack gives him. Unfortunately, his rage issues intensify when he isn't in the shack, and he eventually ends up suspended and in deep trouble with his parents. He's told he is not permitted to leave the house during his suspension, but Mark takes pains to sneak out of the house in the middle of the night so he can get his fix of the shack's comforting embrace. After retreating to the shack one morning after his mother leaves the house, Mark is horrified to find the shack completely gone from it's now familiar location. Desperate to make the shack appear again, he enlists his friends to go with him late one night, and to Mark's relief the shack is where they expected. Expect this time something is inside, and it changes the boy's lives forever. Now Mark is being questioned by the police, and his many fights are making him look particularly suspicious concerning the whereabouts of one of his friends. He's told repeatedly to check in with his parents, but the shack is now making demands of Mark, and he is forced to disappear for hours at a time to carry out its commands. This secret place that once made Mark feel safe has now become a terrifying horror for him, and after isolating himself from everyone he knows, Mark has to deal with the threats and demands of the shack completely on his own.I read this book in a single sitting. I started it in the afternoon, and by evening I realized that I was still furiously turning pages. This story pulls you in immediately, and then keeps you reading so that you can find out Mark's fate. I really enjoy coming of age horror, and Thorn nailed it with this novel. You can feel the awkwardness and longing in each of the teenage characters, and especially with Mark, I felt a deep sympathy for his misguided rage and isolation. He feels like an outcast from everyone, and it causes him to act out. The shack senses these things in Mark and ultimately uses him for its nefarious purposes. Add in a touch of cosmic horror, and the ending had me spellbound. Thorn's characters are all fully realized and Mark in particular is heartbreakingly sympathetic. Make sure you pick this one up when it's released next month. If you're like me, you will be frantically turning pages as well.
5829375940	4,5/5✨ 🐙”Mark vislumbró la estructura de una edificación silueteada contra la luna, algo con la vaga forma de una casa. Se detuvo.”🧙‍♂️No veo más que niebla. Cada vez que alzo la vista encajo un golpe que me hunde más. No intentéis ayudarme. Quiero seguir cayendo. No me gusta el orden. No me merece respeto. Quiero ver desaparecer todo lo que hay a mi alrededor. Quiero gozar de esa caída que me liberará...🕯️Podría resumir en pocas líneas de qué va "Un refugio de los condenados" pero no os serviría para haceros una idea de la excelente novela a la que nos enfrentamos. El autor tiene esa rara habilidad de esconder lo que nos quiere contar bajo una oscura y opresiva atmósfera que esconde mucho más de lo que se está leyendo en primera instancia. Con la apariencia de una lectura sencilla y una historia que nos suena mucho de otras veces, Mike Thorn entreteje una excelente novela de terror con tintes de clásico de terror ochentero pero también mucha parte del oficio del que hacía gala Shirley Jackson."Un refugio para los condenados" es la historia de la rebeldía de la adolescencia, de la revolución hormonal, de las difíciles relaciones con nuestros progenitores en esa edad... de tantos acontecimientos que súbitamente surgen en esa difícil etapa de nuestra vida y lo fácil que es que todo salga mal si no se maneja con el cuidado adecuado.Mike Thorn va bajando al abismo. Pero ese descenso es lento y progresivo; creíble e inquietante. Quizás esa lentitud es lo que hace bajar algunos puntos el resultado final. Hay momentos en los que la lectura se atranca y exaspera un poco. La ventaja es que al ser una novela corta tampoco son momentos que nos estropeen definitivamente la experiencia.La construcción de los personajes es excelente. Sobre todo la de Mark, nuestro rebelde sin causa, ya que consigue que empaticemos, incluso por momentos nos identifiquemos, con una persona que no querríamos tener cerca nuestra en la vida real.Apartado especial merecen las referencias a la cultura pop que el autor nos va soltando (aunque en ocasiones no nos veamos identificados con su intención) y el devenir final de la novela bordeando el horror cósmico.En definitiva si queréis leer un libro de terror con todos los ingredientes que os he contado... pocas opciones conozco más recomendables que esta.¿Qué os parece?¿Lo habéis leído?
3856247864	Teenager Mark and his two friends find an abandoned shack in their neighbourhood which becomes a spot where they can go to hang out and smoke in private. The shack seems to attract and repel the boys in equal measure. But eventually Mark can't stop thinking about the place and is either drawn to visit it by himself or feels the urge to corral his friends for a group trip. One of these visits sets something in motion that Mark has to follow through no matter the cost.Part coming of age, part commentary on themes including addiction and toxic masculinity, part cosmic staring-into-the-void horror. This is one that has stuck with me after reading with its themes to dig deeper into and visuals to be in awe of.Thorn depicted the struggles of being a teenager in such an authentic and believable way. Mark is a troubled kid with no outlet to direct his anger and frustration, and he is forced to repress these feelings until he has no control over the inevitable outbursts. The way that Mark becomes obsessed with and addicted to the shack is very haunting and it reaches a point where the shack has a hold over him that will overbear anything and everything else. But it's too late to go back now and Mark can only submit to its pull.I found this to be a thoroughly engrossing read and I couldn't look away as the story unfolded. Thorn definitely has a way with words and some of the moments that really stood out to me were the chilling and grisly parts which he has an especial talent for. There was even a moment where I turned the page and I experienced a sharp intake of breath as I read what happened next.There is definitely a big cosmic horror vibe here, skilfully applied to a contemporary setting, with a splash of The Cipher by Kathe Koja and a dash of It by Stephen King. If that sounds intriguing to you then I highly recommend picking this one up.I received a review copy of this book from the author.
5512500649	La reseña completa en https://inthenevernever.blogspot.com/...«En cuanto entró, deseó no abandonar jamás aquel lugar. No estaba preparado para comprender. Solo sabía que, en aquel momento cargado de intensidad, quería respirar el aire mísero del refugio para siempre».¿Qué pasaría si un día, mientras buscas un lugar donde poder fumar a escondidas junto a tus dos mejores amigos, encuentran una casa muy vieja? Un cobertizo destartalado en medio de los suburbios. Un sitio que de manera automática se convierte en tu refugio, aunque nunca antes lo habías visto. Quizás el único lugar donde te sientes en paz. Pero puede que esa tranquilidad venga con un precio. Uno muy alto. Hoy quiero hablarles de Un refugio para los condenados, de Mike Thorn, una novela tan llena de terror como de ira adolescente. Un libro que nos llega con la excelente traducción de José Ángel de Dios.
3693702993	Whoa. Where to start?SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED, Mike Thorn's stellar debut, exists at the intersection between metaphor and everyday life. That's something of an oversimplification, I suppose--let me try again and see if I can strike a little closer. What we've got here is a book whose (exceptionally) big ideas have been grounded in the most ordinary of settings: suburbia. Those with an affinity for cerebral horror will be delighted by Thorn's deep exploration of adolescence's underbelly.There's a lot going on here, and while none of the subject material is particularly pleasant, Thorn is a deft navigator, capable of steering between the banal and the philosophical (not to mention the terrifying) with rare and refreshing nuance. I was especially impressed by the characterization and juxtaposition of the story's central father figures. I'm not going to dish out specific details, but some pretty horrific abuse takes place in one of the households--stuff that will make the most hardened reader squirm--and yet Thorn is wise enough not to wallow in these moments. He knows the value of a subtle touch.I said I wouldn't go into detail, and I won't, but I want to hang on this ledge for another moment. There's a father in SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED who is, not to mince words, a monster. But instead of seeing him at his most vile, we the reader are instead given a look at the chummy, just-one-of-the-boys mask he wears over his worst self. This contradiction, given what we know and learn about his temper, makes him believable and compelling when he could so easily have been tiresome. I've slogged my way through swamps of drunk, mean patriarchs in fiction, and too often do they veer into the realm of caricature. That doesn't happen here, and it was a breath of fresh air.As for the Shack itself, well, I won't say much. It would be hard to without spoiling the central conceit. That said, this book has some serious old-school vibes going for it. I'm talking John Carpenter during one of his headier outings (say, Prince of Darkness) or David Cronenberg, basically always. It's work that wants to be captured on film, and deserves to be. Should it happen, I'm there on day one.
3723521591	My thanks to the author for sending me a review copy of this book. It releases next month! Nailing the voices and actions of teenagers in (horror) fiction is tricky business: I’ve certainly read my share of cringe-inducing coming-of-age horror novels that all want to be IT and failing miserably. Luckily, Mike Thorn’s teen-aged characters are written well, especially Mark, our main character. Much of this story hinges on the reader’s ability to “picture” and sympathize with this guy, in all his self-hatred and confusion and awkwardness. Hey, it’s puberty. And high school. And that’s the thing: Thorn nails the grittiness of being a teenager, especially a teenage male. A review I read of this book mentioned “male shame”, and I think it’s highly relevant. Shelter for the Damned could be seen, at least in part, as an examination of toxic masculinity—look no further than the overbearing, hardly-able-to-cope father of Mark, or the monstrously abusive father of friend Adam. Or even the laid-back but rather incapable father of other friend Scott. Much of the horror found here is in the horrible things men do to themselves, and others. I had only slight issues with this book. I felt Mark’s (possible) descent into madness was a bit rushed, and at times unconvincing; it was not aided by his occasional inner monologuing that spell out things the reader should already know/ponder: “Am I really going crazy?” etc. Moments like that took me out of the experience a bit, reminding me I was reading fiction. Oh, and I felt Mark’s love interest, while nice and interesting enough, was a bit of a manic pixie dream girl. Only a bit. But . . . Still. I was impressed by Thorn’s previous release, story collection Darkest Hours, and I suspected I’d like this too. I was right. For a debut novel it’s quite good: a horror story that goes in occasionally unexpected directions, it’s sure to leave the reader pondering what they just experienced.
3802615617	This story is what feels to me to be a sort of coming of age horror.I did received an ARC from the author to read and review and I believe the expected publication date will be 02/26/21.To briefly summarize the plot, this story focuses on 3 teenage boys who are described exactly as you would expect them to be and it was done so well as to make these boys feel real and actual. They're mission is to sneak off and smoke without being caught with their parents. In search of the perfect secluded spot from prying eyes, the boys stumble upon an old Shack. Entering the Shack set in motion the malevolent force that drives the story forward.The writing style of the author was very enjoyable. It was free flowing, easy to follow, conversational. It was also very descriptive, which allowed me to feel like I was standing there watching it all play out instead of reading it. I LOVE that - it puts me right up front with the story and allows me to connect in a very solid way.I will preface this next part with a disclaimer: I am not an author nor am I an editor. I'm just a reader. This is a horror story, very clear going in what it is. There was nothing scary or horror related truly until Chapter 10 - practically midway into the book. In my opinion, Chapter 10 should have been where we started the story. Get some serious scary action in at the start to grab readers and suck them in - THEN have the character development and slow building plot in Chapters 1-9 with the concluding chapters.I also was left a touch unsatisfied that we got zero explanation of what this supernatural force was with the Shack. No explanation, no back story, nothing. Literally nothing. Not even a hint so I could theorize myself afterwards. It just sort of....stopped. I'm good with an unresolved ending, as long as I'm given enough information with which to work it through and have fun with - but this is strictly personal preference. At the end of the day, did the author do what he set out to do? Yes. I loved what he wrote. I just wanted MORE, which is never a bad thing when it comes to a book! I think Mike Thorn has some amazing potential and I will definitely keep an eye on what he's up to and what he puts out next for us.
4295780574	Mix Lovecraft's keen ability in creating creepy and trippy atmospheres with Erica LaRocca and Jack Ketchum's ultra realistic content and skill to reflect the disturbing violence within our species, and you got Mike Thorn's Shelter for the Damned.The buildup of a coming-of-age story involving 90s kids in a relatable suburban neighborhood similar to one I grew up in sunk the hook in my heart. When we start learning about the family life of the boy's and what happens behind closed doors (in one particular case, it's bad enough within public eyes) my Irish Blood started to boil and my tears began to pump out of my eyes.We know simply by reading the title and seeing the cover that the center stage is a structure that may or may not be a house. Nonetheless, when we enter, that's when the text-hallucinogens entered your system.Throughout the story it's clear what is happening, but at the same time... the ambiguity sprinkled throughout is evident enough that I can't actually tell what to believe. I LOVE that in a story--an unreliable narrator or POV character--because that's life. Everyone has their own version, the other guy has theirs, and then, somewhere in the middle is the truth.There's monsters, brutality, a protagonist (I think?) that gets involved in the worst of the worst scenario, and then there's the truth somewhere between all the chaos.This is a powerful story that will twirl your mind around the more you think about how you got to where the story ended and what actually rests within that shelter.
3712086589	“Mark’s real bedroom, after all, had become a haven for ghostly sounds, dead bodies, and monsters. The Shack, comparatively, was a sanctuary.” Writing on Mike Thorn’s short fiction duology, Dreams of Lake Drukka & Exhumation, I said “There’s something of an occult psychologist in every good horror writer.” A sweeping over-generalization, perhaps, but also a fine description for Thorn’s particular skills. Shelter for the Damned will strike an immediately familiar chord for those who’ve read Darkest Hours or the aforementioned duology, with its tale of suburban anonymity, everyday trauma, and abstract ghouls, but it makes use of its greater length to synthesize the diverse strands of Thorn’s imagination, and, I’d argue, potentiates the emotional core of those recurring themes and motifs. The focal point is the distorted mind of protagonist Mark, a lost and alienated teen. His sickness is our lens, a gamble on Thorn’s part to bring us closer to the Monster and grasp the root of his violence. Thorn himself describes this as a “coming-of-age” story, and as such we’re left to trace the emergence of another self in Mark, materialized into another of Thorn’s gray beings. From adolescent irresolution to the resolve to take life. One can perhaps get hung-up on the ambiguities -- how many of the supernatural events are inventions of this sick mind, and how much is really compelled by a force of cosmic evil? -- but that misses Thorn’s psychological craft: Mark is a portrait of the youthful mind divided, between the conditioning of what’s expected and the need to actualize outside of that, however broken and in fact psychotic the approach. It’s unnerving, but also desperate and sad. In a world of casual and accepted violence, the raw wound that is Mark highlights contradictory horror that is law: savagery in politesse, brutality in rites of passage. This law is embodied in the characters of the adults, more precisely the men, masculine violence in multiple permutations on a scale from the performative to the genuinely sadistic. “Playing Clint Eastwood,” the righteous authority of the more socialized men is understood as an inheritance of repressive role-playing. Authority’s severity is likened, repeatedly, to the inhuman gaze of an attack dog, be it a cop or a lecturing bystander, the threat implicit. On the other end, degenerating in addiction and economic malaise, masculinity distorts into sadism cloaked by closed doors. Given no center of social respect and discipline, its animality oozes outwards and damns others in its presence to its own narcissistic hell; its pain must not be contained but spread. Shelter for the Damned is a novel of fathers and sons, a novel of warped inheritance: Mark can perceive normality’s lines and, in some fragment of himself, the need to walk them, but the seeds of violence (planted, perhaps, by abuse) have grown uncontrollably, to the extent in which the aforementioned contradictions come into crystal clarity. For Mark can apologize, he can even “mean it,” and yet this in no way mitigates his path to damnation. It may even abet it. Compartmentalizing the need to assert, learned as the need to lash violently, and emotional responsibilities to others, felt as overwhelming pangs of guilt and in confounding encounters with intimacy, into parallel tracks of his being, Mark effectively removes himself from responsibility for his acts. He becomes the perfect scion for this suburban horror: oh-so-innocent and oh-so-murderous in equal proportions. We don’t talk about it, we don’t think about it, but we still do it. The Shack, like an empty plot, the far-edge of a massive parking lot, or some river’s concrete drainway, is one of those dead and anonymous suburban spaces. It reflects Mark’s own lack of center, lingering like a forgotten secret between more organized rows of houses. Flying from ennui or abuse, these negative spaces become, yes, unlikely sanctuaries, nooks and crannies for beleaguered souls to sequester themselves with cigarettes and bad beer. When a society is predicated on leaving what’s most frightening or painful unsaid, such spaces become truth’s strange haven -- albeit, sometimes, a terrible truth. Is Mark actualized by this space, or a slave to it? One and then the other. When Mark pushes further into the story and meets this space’s otherworldly presence more concretely, or, more accurately, is possessed by it, Thorn writes: “He was the indifferent but all-powerful energy that guided not only his own narrative, but all narratives…” Violence, at first an assertion of ego, begins to subsume him as element force. In giving himself to this force, the Mark that is of normality begins to fade, even literally in one particularly memorable passage. His pathological compartmentalization of his sickness cannot hold up to the pressure, and, in a gutting descent, he is stripped of anything that might’ve connected him to others in a healthy manner. And always, until the very end, the mask still tries to hold on. Apologetic and even confessional, the last remnant of Human Mark dies a pitiful death, alone, afraid, and consumed by what he set free. The novel’s most effective horror is found here. The success in Thorn’s characterization of Mark, budding sociopath, is in the realization of his adolescent confusion regarding these transformations. These aren’t the bold leaps of some fully-formed psychopath, but awkward fumblings, in both internal and external terms. The crimes Mark commits are clumsy, and his experience of his own descent inconsistent and torturous. He can never decide which him is the real Him, or at least can’t perceive having the choice. The novel’s tragedy is of a fall experienced by one who can’t even comprehend what that might really mean. Child of silent rot, condemned to create his own void. Damned, indeed.
4072896498	There is not enough written on how our bodies remember rooms, bringing the outside in. And there is never enough of an emphasis on the inverse: the way our skin and breath and habits continue to line the rooms once inhabited, long after we've left. When it's done it's done with the noise of ghosts. The Gothic house either reveals its memories to the visitor as hauntings, or puts work into staging the visitor's memories for them within this unfamiliar environment. What is uncanny about the Gothic house is the way it shapes the memories of the visitor, or personalises the haunting for them, in any case welcoming them to a home that is not their home. Beneath the warm memories projected by the Gothic house is a cold, indifferent architecture, and this demystified state is the concern of Shelter for the Damned. Mike Thorn asks, what if rather than the layers of human meaning we inscribe on the walls of a room, it is that fundamental anonymity that attracts us to a house; what if homelessness itself that constitutes the home; what if it is the drive to emptiness that is the essence of the human. Shelter for the Damned is not about the Gothic house storing and presenting memories to some future visitor, but about the loss of self in entering the domain of the house's memories; of becoming dust.Thorn's most emphatic descriptions come when Mark, the protagonist, is trying to absorb and explain Shelter for the Damned's source of architectural antagonism, the Shack. The Shack, we're told in vivid and excited prose, is defined by its non-specificity, its inability to be made vivid in literary description. The Shack's categorical formlessness is contrasted with the narrative's actual homes which Thorn describes in generic economy; skeletal fragments of the ordinary that the reader is expected to fill in through their own memories of the same. What is creepy about literature is that it always works this way. The author draws from memory to paint a scene, and the reader wanders through memories that are not their own, understanding them through those that are. Shelter for the Damned draws attention to what is usually done without thought, the absorption of something alien through its fusion with the buried and familiar. The book contains every ordinary house the reader ever spent time in and forgot. The Shack however withholds itself despite being traced time again in prose. Without that connection to the reader's imagined past it exists solely in the tangle of words that reach from the page and into the reader's eyes, clawing toward their thoughts. It would be enough to say the Shack resides just outside of language, at that hole we cover over in every conversation just to stay sane, which is the noise of transmission, and the knowledge that with broken words we can never truly know one another.For Thorn this distance produces an itch, where the indescribability of the Shack throws us into the mad task of dreaming it into reality. The Shack is more real than the language around it because it is the cold walls and floors and ceilings behind every memory. These formless forms, these itinerant words that point to something lurking beyond the page, evoke the much celebrated 'gaps' in Lovecraftian weird prose. The Shack's name alone fits within the Gothic tradition of the definite article following the indefinite adverb-noun: "The Unnamable," "The Thing," "The Shape," and so on. What shack? Every Shack that ever was and will be, traceable to no specific instance of 'shack' but nevertheless there, clinging to the backs of your memories like glue. You know it although you can't know it, you've touched it although you can't hold it. This is not to say that Shelter for the Damned fits entirely within that model, however. There is an ongoing conversation between these evocative gaps that gesture to some sort of cosmic force, and Thorn's interest in the psychological intensity of an entity or event's appearance in reality. In Mark's own words, there are scenes and descriptions "that would make Tom Savini proud", and in the context of the Shack this is all cosmic suggestion cut through with the raw fact of viscera, the two churning back and forth in an ultraviolent spectacle both chilling and corporeal. A cosmic disorder tying reality from the skies to an errant tooth.Shelter for the Damned gets at the sweaty mess of adolescence in Mark without resorting to the abject bodily fluids and soapie melodrama that writers so often use to frame teenagehood as a kind of transgression against both adult wisdom and childhood innocence. As in all good horror there's a dignity to the messiness of existence brought about through Thorn's contempt for stratifications that place normality as the goal. Normality cannot be restored because there is no normal. Through Mark universal isolation is explored alongside ever encroaching cycles of masculine violence. Mark's anger seems to come from nowhere. There are brief holes in the plot and even the character is left wondering what triggered it after the fact. There's an atmosphere of violence then, where violence seemingly needs to happen. To explain this Thorn goes to good lengths accounting for the adult men in Mark's orbit. If it's not relating to Mark's interiority on a personal level, the reader can likely appreciate the catalogue of terrible fathers in Shelter for the Damned, and relate to the book's searing observations on the middle-class nuclear family. It is no wonder that the familiar homes in the book feel so empty, but the amorphous Shack, so striking in its anonymity, immediately becomes a true Home for Mark. The novel's teenage angst is perfectly rendered, and there's a real kick to having it, not coupled with (in the form of a pastiche), but as a genuinely affecting portal to questions of cosmic indifference, the homeliness of nothingness, and the human search for silence.I'm hugely drawn to the rhythms of the book, and the dilation and compression of time and description. For the first two thirds Thorn deploys this stylistic tic of cutting sentences into individual clauses and removing pronouns along with the conjunctions. There's a fluidity to his conversations that's neatly offset by these fragments, and this draws attention to the formal economy used throughout. The penultimate few chapters however rise to a kind of incantatory excess as Mark and the Shack become indivisible, italicised and hyphenated spells thrashing against the rising and falling tides of polysyndeton. It's ecstatic and biblical, and it's in these passages the reader could be forgiven for forgetting to breathe.
3776173843	Shelter for the Damned was an interesting read, a new voice to me and one I’ll be looking at reading more of in the future given this outing, but that is not to say it was smooth sailing - I did had some niggling issues with the story itself. The novel starts out great, an opening where we are introduced to our three main protagonists (albeit very quickly and I did struggle working out who was who for the first few pages) who discover a shack in the middle of nowhere. It’s not there one day and the next it appears like a thing from a nightmare! The building itself was something so hideously brilliant and macabre that I wanted to know more (Mike Thorn describes this so vividly that it made me feel both sick and horrified - there was something about the physical structure of the walls that creeped me out) - our three protagonists want to smoke somewhere quiet and out of the way and so they force their way inside and discover more than they wished for. There is a lot of teenage angst and distrust in this book. Many teenagers keep secrets from their parents and that’s what these three protagonist are doing and it’s rendered to perfection by Thorn.But what I really enjoyed about our main protagonists was the aspect around how three young boys try to grow up under their parents looming shadows - again the work that Thorn does here with the parental abuse is stunning, well restrained but keeps the barbarity for the reader to imagine, he hardly ever shows it. There are also the common themes of love, depression, underage drinking, smoking, bullying, well if you can think of a teenage issue it’s probably in here somewhere - there is also a huge slice of horror I was just annoyed that we were pulled away from it for so long. The book as I mentioned opens so well - but then we get torn away from all that fabulous pacing, set up and work that focuses around sustaining the oncoming dread and we spend the next 10 chapters roughly (whenever the Tooth scene happens) where the shack doesn’t really get mentioned again, or if so it’s just in passing. We spend a long while just meandering around the characters and their friendship issues - I don’t know if it’s just me but I wanted that shack to have a more central theme to the story - don’t get me wrong it does come back but much later in the book, but the work that was done initially got me so hooked that when it didn’t resurface my attention waned to the story that was unfolding as it was occupied with questions about where is the shack and when is it coming back. Also the other issues I had were around the shack itself, we don’t really get given much information about it, where it came from, what it does, how it does what it does - it’s just there, and I’m all up for ambiguity but this story and with the depth that Thorn goes to in some elements was lacking a real explanation of what it was, and without that I felt the story just didn’t have the impact that Thorn works so hard to show us. You might be thinking I didn’t like this book, but let me tell you that I did, there are some fabulous passages in this book, some thematic elements that are so deftly crafted and restrained (abuse) that you would imagine Thorn has been writing novels for years - there is also what I would describe as prose magic here too, I highlighted a great many passages, all mainly in the first chapter and later in the book when the shack is there - because the shack is the main character in this regardless of our protagonists! Thorn does an exceptional job at nailing the voices of his protagonists (teenagers) and I was fully invested in discovering their plights, not so much the secondary characters but that trio and the shack were all I needed - I just felt a bit unsatisfied at the story’s conclusion with much left unsaid about the supernatural elements of the shack.There was a tremendous scene with something in a cupboard that crawled out and it brought to mind John Carpenter’s ‘The Thing’ - it was that good, also had some Hellraiser vibes too... damn good! Would I read more Thorn? You bet your life I will!
3702160589	** Edited as review is now live on Kendall Reviews! **Having been a fan of Mike’s collection ‘Darkest Hours’ and his Demain Short! Sharp! Shocks! release ‘Dreams of Lake Drukka/Exhumation’ I was excited to see what he had in store for us for his first novel, ‘Shelter for the Damned.’His story that appeared in the anthology ‘Prairie Gothic’ revolved around a house that wasn’t a house and was fantastic, so seeing what the synopsis of this was, I was very intrigued to dive in and discover what new nightmares he’d conjured for us.Ultimately, this one was an odd read. Parts I absolutely loved and parts that really ground my gears. When all was said and done and I finished the book, I sat back and thought about it and wondered if maybe this release had started life as a screenplay. I know Mike’s a massive cinephile and there were some sections in here that read very much like it was written in script format and then transferred over into the novel. When I started to consider it in that aspect, I think some things clicked for me in a way they hadn’t when I initially read it.What I liked: The story follows Mark, a teen kid who struggles to control his impulses. We get told he’s dealt with counselling already as well as multiple run-ins with school administration, but ultimately he isn’t sure why he acts as he does. Scott and Adam, Mark’s two best friends are hanging out with him when they find a random shack in a field, one they’ve never seen before.Thorn uses that point to jump off into a story that focuses on a portal that soothes Mark’s shattered nerves but also feeds into his impulses and works to make him act out.For me, the highlights were when Mark was interacting with the shack and the ‘inhabitants’ and struggling to come to grips with what they need him to do. In those moments Mark was a very believable character, one that you felt for and desperately wished he’d make the right choice.What I didn’t like: The story attempts to have a few additional plotlines within, one about toxic masculinity and one about abusive parents. For me personally, I found that it made for difficult sections where the dialogue and interactions were off and didn’t feel like how real people would speak.As well, and this leads back to my screenplay theory, the ending lost some impact from it being described from a phone call, instead of an actual action description.One thing I’ll note – I wasn’t completely sure when/what year this takes place or exactly how old the kids were. This did make it tough at times with how the story was unfolding. There were no cell phones throughout, people instead phoning on landlines, yet in one instance with a homeless man, he mentions kids were beating him up while filming with a camcorder to load on Youtube. It threw me for a loop, as if Youtube exists, cell phones exist. Saying that – where I grew up, cell phone reception is still incredibly spotty and just last year, in 2020, they finally stopped using dial-up internet. Even where I live now, in the capital city of Alberta, you can drive for a few hours in any direction and find yourself out of cell service/range. So, in that aspect, I accepted the reality of no cell phones, but it may grind on some readers.Why you should buy this: Thorn gives us a slow burn story that shows a kid spiral as the shack he loves hooks its tentacles into him and begins to distort right from wrong. Matt is a kid you want to root for and ultimately succeed, but in classic horror fashion, you just know that this won’t happen. Fans of Barker’s The Hellbound Heart will see similarities with Matt’s story arc and there are some amazingly grotesque moments that’ll make fans of horror happy.
3885318479	Horror author Mike Thorn has written a nightmare inducing tale in “Shelter of the Damned.” The story centers around a teen named Mark and his two friends, Adam and Scott. Typical teens, trying to be cool, trying to be rebels. Mark seems to have a somewhat normal family, both parents at home, both seem like they give a damn about their son. His friends are not so lucky as both come from much more dismal backgrounds. They are very well written characters and are relatable. Their friendship is genuine and will remind you of your days as a bored teen in suburbia, USA. As suburban kids often do, they are out for a walk, looking for some way to relieve the boredom, maybe someplace to sneak a few smokes out of watching adult eyes, when they stumble across an old shack. A dark, abandoned shack that they hadn’t noticed before. A shack that Mark is instantly drawn to, as they cross the threshold. As the days go on, Mark’s need for the shack, for the feeling it gives him, becomes an addiction for him. It does not hold the same appeal for his friends, which turns out to be fine because Mark realizes that he doesn’t want to share “his place” anymore. As the shack begins to influence Mark on darker levels, his life begins a slow descent into a hellish nightmare that he cannot escape. Something dwells within the shack, something dark and evil and malicious, something that becomes more demanding and more twisted as it demands more from Mark. Demands that must be met, or Mark himself will become its prey. This story feels like a supernatural tale in the beginning, but the latter half reveals it to be something more. This is not your average ghost story, this evil is something else, from someplace else. This is cosmic horror, at its most unexpected. This was a highly enjoyable story with excellent characters, well-written dialogue and a tense atmosphere that grips you early on and doesn’t let go until the final pages. I look forward to more stories by this new author.
3722311144	Three boys enter a shack, and although they all seem to feel that it is more than it appears to be, one boy falls helplessly under it's control. I can't say I ever figured out exactly what the shack is or how it chooses it's victims.Mark has always had a mean streak, a short fuse that is easily lit, and maybe that is why the shack has latched on to him. After their initial discovery, Mark's friends don't want to revisit the shack, but Mark is compelled to return, to the point of obsession. As Mark's friendships begin to deteriorate, so too does his school and home life, making the shack feel like the only good thing in his world. I felt that one reason Mark may have been easily swayed was his own proclivity towards violence but another may have been the implied physical abuse at the hands of his father. Although one of his friends is obviously abused repeatedly at home, the shack does not have the same hold over him so my theory could be wrong. It's possible that in addition to a supernatural element Mark may have suffered some form of mental illness because there were times I was not sure if he was hallucinating things that I thought his mother should have seen, if it were real. I guess this left me with more questions than answers, as to whether this is a dark descent into murder and madness, or a supernatural entity taking control.4 out of 5 starsI received an advance copy for review.
3696178554	Review of “Shelter for the Damned by Mike Thorn” Release date 2/26/2021A cosmic coming of age novel that will have you chewing your nails down to the quick. Mark and his friends seek out a place to sneak their cigs. You know, all that coming of age jazz, where kids are sneaking around to do the things parents wouldn’t approve of. When they come upon this shack, it seems like the obvious place to sneak off too where no one could tell on them. There’s something euphoric about the shack for Mark though and almost addicting, until it starts to get into his head. There were some definite highs to this book for me such as the creativity of the story and the action towards the end. It blew me away with its mind bending cosmic horror scenes and even drove my heart racing with some of the decisions the main character made. The lows of this book for me were the interactions/dialogue between Mark and the other characters in the beginning and the lack of connection. Where this book felt lacking in some areas it made up for it in others so I gave this one 3 ⭐️. The action and anxiety inducing scenes in the middle to end of the book makes me want to try more of this author's work in the future for sure. Thank you Mike for sending me this ebook in exchange for an honest review!
4326849882	A truly excellent horror story that captures the feeling of adolescence perfectly.
3717859578	Every year around film awards season, I find myself scrambling, making sure I haven’t missed watching any of the nominated movies. These are supposed to represent the best of the best, so my expectations are high. Then, almost without fail, I’m utterly disappointed – not at the ultimate winners, but by the nominees in general. Movies that are championed as superb, cerebral, and unflinching, just don’t seem to do it for me. That probably says more about my personal taste than a critique of the accolade process, and keep that in mind, because the same thing can happen to me with books.After reading the synopsis of Shelter for the Damned by Mike Thorn, I was pumped to crack that novel open. Troubled teens, suburban violence, and a terrifying, sentient building – yes, please! And once advanced rave reviews began pouring in, I was even more excited. Sadly, however, my experience with this book was reminiscent of being disappointed by award-nominated films.The story follows Mark who stumbles across an abandoned shack in suburbia when he and some friends are looking for a place to smoke cigarettes. All three teens are both drawn to and repulsed by the mysterious building they could have sworn wasn’t there before. But from the first time Mark steps inside, the shack becomes an obsession. Like an addict, he needs to go back as often as he can, and by the time he realizes the entity of the shack expects something sinister in return he’s helpless to resist.Much of the novel is spent with Mark being isolated, but I never got a deep insight to his character. Something changed within him before the story begins, leading down a path where he’s constantly filled with rage, and I felt it was a missed opportunity that his backstory wasn’t explored, especially given the amount of time spent with only him and his thoughts. Through conversations with his parents, it’s revealed that at one point Mark was receiving counseling, however the reason why his sessions began or ended is never discussed.My experience with the other characters wasn’t much different. From the parents to the other teenagers in the story, they all felt self-absorbed and hollow, with stilted dialogue. I don’t have a problem with unlikeable characters as long as there is something that explains their motivations. As a reader I want to gain an understanding of what the characters hope to gain or avoid, and I felt this was lacking throughout the story.However, I did find some fantastic passages and descriptions throughout the book, and that’s what kept me reading to the end. Brawls between Mark and another student were tense and captured the gut-wrenching brutality that can consume teenaged boys. There were also a few scenes where Mark comes face to face with the cosmic entity from the shack which were supremely creepy. One of my favourite lines was from a nightmare Mark has of this being, and screams “…Until he’d screamed sound itself into extinction.”Unfortunately, these terrific sections weren’t enough to fill the void I felt with the rest of the book.*Review first appeared on Kendall Reviews*
3794248509	Mike Thorn clearly knows his horror. For his Master’s thesis in English Literature he analyzed the role of epistemophobia in John Carpenter’s Prince Of Darkness. Clever readers will be able to notice his quick mention of this classic film in his latest novel, SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED.Thorn steps into territory often used by horror authors, that being the use of teen-agers as the principal characters in the story. However, most often it comes across sounding like adults trying to get inside the mind and vocabulary of a teen. It takes authors like Stephen King, Ray Bradbury, Dan Simmons or Richard Laymon to really do this right. I am pleased to say that the teen characters that carry the narrative here are all very believable.It begins with a simple enough premise. Three high school buddies: Mark, Adam, and Scott, are bored on a typical small-town night and seeking a place where they can smoke cigarettes without being caught or seen. They find a shack literally by itself in the middle of a field. It resembles a small, broken-down house and initially the trio are hesitant to enter. Mark is the most fearless and he steps inside the shack, which is completely empty, dark, and very creepy. They speculate on what the place could be --- a home for bums, a sanctuary for Satan worshippers, etc.… It is one of those places that is something different to whoever seeks it out. Let us just say it immediately has a hold on Mark and he will become obsessed with going there after this first visit.Mark is going through a troubled period at school where he is one step away from expulsion and a few fights with the slow-witted big lug in his class does not make him any more popular. His friends, Adam and Scott, begin to worry about him and want to hang out with him less and less. His parents are upset with his recent change in behavior and have grounded him. This, however, will not stop his middle-of-the-night visits to the shack. You see, Mark has found a real friend inside the shack, a being that often appears to him as a mirror image of himself --- and that mirror image starts to take revenge out on the people in Mark’s life that he has problems with. The major issue is that the shack is hungry for more souls and has an insatiable desire for them. Mark is now stuck serving the dark lord of the shack and there may be no escape for him.SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED is high-octane horror that really delivers while never being too predictable. Mike Thorn respects the genre and, as you can see by the accompanying Q&A, is a well-read student of horror which means he has the foundation to do great things and this novel is a perfect start!Reviewed by Ray Palen for JournalStone Hell Notes
3693447819	Mike Thorn’s particular skill is in reconfiguring the recognisable core tenets of horror into particularly loaded contemporary formats in which the mundane becomes philosophical and in which the horrific becomes sublime. As far as a text about teenagers is concerned, I simply don’t believe Shelter for the Damned – characters, here, appear more like functions of narrative drive, thematic simulacra for horror to be imprinted and imposed upon – but I’m not sure this is an issue. It is, after all, a coming-of-age novel, and it’s one in which empty simulacra gradually recognize the condition of their own baseless existence, in turn growing up through that. Pynchon levels a similar accusation at Orwell’s 1984 – that Julia is ‘nothing’ until she transforms into ‘something’ – and Pynchon is right, but this doesn’t make Orwell’s deployment of Julia any less emotive or interesting, despite its stereotypical trappings. So, sure, Thorn’s characters are ‘nothing’ until they transform into ‘something.’ It makes the early tread of the novel tough, a little thick and knotty and expository, tough to sink your teeth into or to read a lot of at once, but also paves the way for the gradual unravelling of a superficially surface-y story to begin dealing with something else, something kind of nameless.The horror in Shelter for the Damned is nameless because it is epistemological. It is what the characters know and it is what the characters don’t know. Good guesses at making narrative sense of confusion turn other good guesses against themselves. As the characters move from caricature shells toward holistic beings, the semiotics of the text gradually deplete themselves of significance in startling narrative jumps that echo the films of Raimi and the written work of Pynchon.Gradually, the veil of reality lifts to reveal the smokescreen stage the characters are standing on – “drugs” / “PURE ADRENALINE” / “Night” / “Shackspeech” – Thorn’s world is one that shapeshifts around people. And here, then, is another purpose given to the slapdash nature of the boys in the middle of the text. Rather than reactive autonomous beings, the characters act as proactive networked beings. They are points of gravity and inertia for a world of objects that is in itself reactive. The ending of the book is wonderful, a marvellous magic trick, as the silhouette that opens the novel empties itself, too - as the boys have become full.
3703631413	I love a good coming of age story. Growing up can be hard, but even more so when a mysterious shack materializes in your neighborhood and all but swallows your soul. Mark and his two best friends discover an abandon shack when looking for a place to just chill and smoke cigarettes. Mark is known as a troublemaker, a loner, the kid that no one seems to understand. He finds solace and belonging within the walls of the shack. Mark becomes entranced and obsessed with the power and acceptance that he feels in the shack, and that obsession grows until it is no longer a curiosity, but something much more sinister. There is an evil lurking inside the shack-- an evil that takes one of his friends, an evil that whispers to Mark and demands blood. There is sooooo much going on in this book. It's one of those stories that will have you analyzing the "deeper" meaning of the plot events and underlying observations. There were several times when I wondered if what was going on was actually occurring or if it was all (or partially) in Mark's head. (But, I don't want to give too much away.) The themes of violence, addiction, friendship, and belonging are explored through immersive and hypnotic language- seriously, there are times when I felt like I was a bystander outside of the shack witnessing the events unfolding right in front of my eyes, screaming but no one could hear me. When the story started, I thought it would more or less just be a story of a stereotypical group of teenagers discovering a haunted house in their neighborhood, but it turned out to be so much more profound than that. What an excellent debut! Mike Thorn is going to be a voice to watch in the horror community, and I will certainly be excited to see where his writing journey takes him next. I would recommend that readers of horror who like stories that give them something to think about and define for themselves give this one a try! **Thanks to the author for providing me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.**
3730280991	Shelter for the Damned by Mike Thorn is as coming-of-age as it gets, but within those lines, there is something more, something unknown, Cosmic even. Sure, it seems like it takes a while for it to get going, but in reality, the pacing is quite perfect. We get the characters, the backstory, the guts so to speak. What we don’t get is a story that’s lacking, the teen strife that most of us can resonate with, the social choices, it’s all here. One question we must ask is, do any of us truly understand the inner workings of a teenager’s mind? Although, we’ve all been there, the times change, and with that change so do the lives of the children around us.Let’s dive a little deeper, we're introduced to our protagonists, though Mark clearly becomes the center point of this story, the trio stumbles upon a shack in the middle of nowhere, surely it hasn’t always been there, but they’re uncertain. Now, the oddest part of the shack is how it seems to speak to Mark, drawing him in, maybe even changing him a little. There’s something there that pervades his thoughts, he’s becoming darker, more menacing and everyone is beginning to notice. His home life doesn’t make things any better, constantly eating away at him, does he actually have what it takes to get through this?I really enjoyed this novel, I had to take the time to think about how it made me feel, there were some parts that hit me a little harder than others, and I needed the time away to fully form my thoughts. I look forward to more work from Thorn, I will definitely be keeping him on my radar.Thank you, to Mike for the e-ARC of Shelter for the Damned
3722629334	First off I'd like to say I was given a copy of this book to read by the author for my honest review, which follows below..Wow! I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I couldn't even write a review when I finished yesterday because I needed a minute!So this is a story about a teenage boy who runs across a 'shack' oddly in the field close to a suburban neighborhood. It is also unmarred by graffiti, etc., like most shacks would be. He and his 2 best friends feel like it would be a great place to chill and smoke cigarettes, but it turns out for him to be so much more. It becomes a central point in his life which takes a dark unexpected turn.The book smoldered at first as the story and characters were established, so don't expect to jump right into the terror, but once it took off I couldn't put the book down until I finished.I especially enjoyed the great descriptions and backgrounds of the characters, mainly his classmates. There wasn't a whole lot of background on Mark, the main character, which made the story more ominous. Not sure what 'made' him like he was, or if there was anything. Also there were some interesting parents, especially fathers, and even his own relationship with his parents was surely a part of the plot. Not sure what else I can say without spoiling it for you except there were several moments of horror I was not expecting that creeped in and grabbed me. I could see in my mind exactly what was going on from the intricately detailed descriptions crafted by the author. I was very impressed. Hope you will check this book out, when it comes out. It comes highly recommended by me :)
4402879765	I enjoyed every moment of this book.Shelter for the Damned is a beautifully written story through the eyes of Mark, a boy struggling with all the problems of a teenager. His character is rich and well written. I felt his pain, his fear, his struggle.The moment that Mark sees the shack, we know something is off. I love how the hold that this shack has on Mark builds through the story, creating a growing sense of fear that builds into pure terror.The imagery is rich, taking the reader to the within the walls of the shack and within the terrifying dreams and images that Mark experiences.I highly recommend this book for anyone who loves a pure piece of horror that chills your bones from start to finish.
3924243800	So, let me start off by saying that this book was excellent! I really enjoyed this cosmic horror coming of age horror story. I always wondered what these two sub genres would be like mashed together, and I no longer have to ponder that. This book had a lot of emotion to it, and it was really, really well written! Which beings me to my first and only negative to this story. This book had me searching up words I never have used in my daily life before. That may be saying more about me than the story itself, but eh, I thought I’d bring it up.The story flowed nicely and honestly I was infatuated with Mark’s character. I was really hoping he would turn things around for the better and I found myself rooting for a flawed individual. I won’t say if things turn out okay for Mark, but just know that the ending to this story is ambiguous and leaves you with a “What the Hell,” moment that will make you wish there was more, but that’s what a great cosmic horror story does to people; make you want more! It will leave you with questions that, quite possibly, the author might not know the answers to! Overall, I give this one a solid four stars! 🏠👾
3717251405	If you’re looking for a horror novel that is as chilling to read as it is compelling, Author Mike Thorn’s new novel Shelter for the Damned is such a great choice! It follows a distressed young man named Mark who, along with his best friends, comes across a mystifying Shack in a field that begins affecting the way that Mark lives. It’s a haunting story that makes you fear what you can’t quite even picture, with a sense of guilt and paranoia pervading the story, and a knockout ending that, in harmony with its exploration of addiction and masculinity, leaves you hurting for everyone involved. Read on for some more detailed thoughts!The novel intrigues from its opening chapter, introducing the reader to its somewhat childish characters through the perspective of someone who initially comes off as rather inward-thinking but slowly reveals his quick temper. That’s the novel’s protagonist, Mark, a high school student who seems to be constantly – and sometimes preemptively – assessing the threat of violence and other people’s potential for it. In that same chapter, we are also introduced to the Shack, a compelling and uncomfortable setting that quickly preys on Mark’s temptation and isolation.Shelter is a very tense and compelling horror/coming-of-age hybrid, in the sense that in the early chapters of the novel, we trust that Mark is doing what is right for him, but there is the added threat of him being caught doing so by adult authority figures who don’t quite trust him, even before he is entranced by the Shack. The novel’s specificity surrounding its suburban setting and the feeling of being in the homes of others versus your own is particularly serviceable to the tension that builds surrounding the increasingly upsetting behaviour that Mark exhibits throughout the rest of the novel. The novel is most effective in the all-encompassing nature of both its horrific moments surrounding the Shack, as well as the moments where you are lulled into a sense of comfort when Mark’s loved ones express concern for him, temporarily erasing the fear of what the Shack will compel him to do shortly thereafter. Given Mark has a temper before we are introduced to the Shack, those empathetic moments hurt even more when Mark turns around and acts against his better judgement and against what the reader wants for him.That’s what the Shack is, though, ultimately. It appears as a mundane structure in a suburban area, though it hides the most unimaginable evils precisely because it appears so normal on the outside. The mundanity of Mark’s life is so familiar that the unknowable cosmic horror that follows is just that much more frightening, because it brings weight to scenarios that one could easily see themselves in. That ties into the novel’s exploration of masculinity and addiction too, particularly with regards to how Mark perceives himself. Mark forces his friend Adam to promise he will never tell of the traumatizing things that he puts him through. His emotions are concealed and bottled up to the point where more violence inevitably manifests, even though Mark is tricked (by the Shack, by himself, by the masculine influences in his life) into believing that it is in service of preventing more violence overall. Mark grows an uncanny addiction to the Shack, seemingly aware that it is bad for him while he’s there but continually deluding himself into believing it is good for him when he’s safely made it away. His devotion to the Shack becomes especially concerning when it becomes clear that it is feeding on his regret and convincing him that he is not capable of being better like others want him to be. Mark’s romantic interest, Madeline, causes extra conflict for him as well, because though their relationship is precisely what he has longed for, he is too comfortable in his obsession with the Shack (going as far as comparing their importance). Though his relationship with her, too, points to unhealthy masculinity as he is immediately, even instinctually, tempted to unload all of his trauma onto her in a way that he does not consider doing with his friends.Shelter exists at an intersection between cosmic and nihilistic: the cosmic nature of the Shack’s hold over Mark is important to hang onto so that we can realize that despite how obviously poor the choices Mark makes are, he is being pulled to do them, injecting a sense of tragic fate into Mark’s character that becomes more literal late in the book. The book’s most impressive segment, to me, comes towards the end where Mark is faced with the horror of what he’s done and his reality begins to warp. Mark describes the Shack’s door as being mouth-like, so when the Shack abandons him it is easy to imagine that mouth morphing into a smirk, knowing it has consumed Mark wholly. This segment points to the character having viewed his life as a horror story, and that he felt his fate was fixed so he continued to give power to the Shack. The way that Shelter wears its influences is very impressive to me, in that it doesn’t emptily mimic other horror writing, nor does it feel the need to shift into an explicitly meta-mode, but rather it is an original and authentic story that feels inseparable from the consumption of horror. It rings of horror stories echoing against each other to create an unrecognizable horror indistinguishable from one’s life. A cosmic horror story with the influence of having access to Eli Roth and Stephen King (to cite a few of its in-book references), of having access to the knowledge of the perception of horror’s influence on readers & viewers.The book is being published February 26th, so if this review interests you, I definitely recommend picking up a copy! I appreciate Mike Thorn sharing an advanced copy with me and asking me to share my (unbiased) thoughts! He’s a talented author of horror who has impressed me in pulling no punches with this debut novel!
3922791965	OMG! This novel was excellent! The genre is cosmic horror, and even though I have never read anything from that area before, it was such a enjoyable experience. I would highly recommend this.It focuses around Mark and his friends Adam and Scott. One day while their looking for a place to have a smoke, they come across an abandoned shack in a field. Mark instantly forms a strange connection to this building, which draws him back to it constantly and communicates to him. He becomes obsessed with this structure, which results in Mark pushing everyone way. When his friends confront him about his weird unhealthy addiction, it results in something unexpected happening. Mark slowly loses his grip on reality and must make a decision, about what is more important to him.
3940650094	I was not expecting this coming-of-age cosmic horror to leave me anxious, enthralled and wanting more by the final page, but that’s exactly where my emotions were left and I need others to feel the same!This is a story about Mark, a troubled teenage boy who--surprise surprise--constantly feels misunderstood and wrongly judged by his parents and his peers. When he and his friends discover an abandoned shack where they can smoke cigarettes in secret, Mark senses something otherworldly within its walls, something that calls to him and makes him feel safe. After this first encounter, Mark starts to develop an obsession and constantly wants to return to the shack, selling it to his friends as a cool hang out where they can always smoke in secret. This idea, however, does not interest his friends who don’t understand his weird fascination. Nevertheless, the shack and whatever calls to him from inside becomes a drug from which Mark starts suffering withdrawals whenever he is distanced from it. As the story progresses, our protagonist starts to become restless, angry, paranoid, violent, and isolated--wishing to eradicate his dependence on the shack while simultaneously needing it desperately. After a few pages, I sensed the themes of male adolescence and addiction pretty quickly and appreciated these subjects being portrayed in such a terrifying but comprehensible way. This story was almost impossible for me to put down. From the first chapter I was intrigued by this mysterious, supernatural force that had a strong hold on this young boy. As the reader, I genuinely felt sympathy for Mark as his warring emotions, his fear, and his insecurities were being used and manipulated by an evil entity. His steady decline into paranoia was frightening but also heartbreaking as he felt he had no one to turn to. Everyone feared him or feared for him. How incredibly sad and lonely is that?! Bravo, Mike Thorn! You’ve succeeded in pulling at my empathetic heartstrings while simultaneously delivering a very dark, surreal story that will occupy my mind for ages.
3701927516	Being lost. Committing a serious crime and knowing that I can never tell anyone. Being an utter disappointment to my family or those I care about. Having nowhere to go and no one to turn to. These are my nightmares; not monsters, not demons, just realistic terrible things that could actually happen are what I find terrifying. SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED wracked my nerves something furious- this is the most anxious I've been while reading a book in a long time."It's Satan's pad. It's a spaceship. It's a monsters stomach. Who gives a shit? It's a place to enjoy a fucking cigarette." ~ Adam speaking about the shackMark is a mostly normal, if not troubled, teenager. Still figuring things out. Awkward around the girl he likes. Anger issues and bad grades. Parents that don’t really seem to get him. He likes hanging out with his two best friends, even though they get on each other's nerves, as friends tend to do. One day, while looking for a place to smoke where they won’t get caught, they see a shack that none of them have noticed before. Something's off about it. Mark finds that he's drawn to this shack over and over at all hours of the day. When he's there, the rest of the world melts away. He’s safe. But it's not just a shack. As Mark’s shelter demands more and more from him, his life spins completely out control. Horrible things happen and Mark doesn’t have anyone he can turn to. It does take a while to get going but once the terror train leaves the station, it's non-stop anxiety the rest of the trip.There are a couple things that didn’t totally work for me. As mentioned above it takes a while to get going; you’ll read almost 10 chapters before something that feels like traditional horror happens. Maybe it wold have been better if the character development was spread out a little more. It’s this reader’s opinion that it’s worth it to stick it out, but you should know that going in. Also, the book’s ending might leave you with some questions. We don’t really get to know much about the shack, its motivations, or who’s calling the shots. It’s almost left open for a sequel, but since there’s been no mention of one, I think this is all we’re getting. If ambiguous endings aren’t your thing, you might not love how this turns out.So what did I like? I can’t overstate how nervous this book made me feel. I was one of those kids that followed all the rules and any time I tried to break a rule I got caught- EVERY SINGLE TIME. The teenage version of myself and Mark don’t have too many things in common, but Thorn’s writing really pulled me in and I was consistently thinking about what I’d do if I was in that situation. I probably wouldn’t have made it as far as Mark does, that’s for sure. Also, there are two scenes/sequences I will mention (but not spoil) that I loved: - A scene involving something in a closet that I won’t forget anytime soon for multiple reasons.- There’s a section of the book that gets cosmic and dreamlike in a big way that’s really compelling.In summary, SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED is suburban coming-of-age horror with shades of Stephen King, Lovecraft, and the movie Brainscan (without the villain with the red mohawk for comedic relief). This is Mike Thorn’s first novel and if this is the caliber of longer fiction we can expect from him, I’m all in on whatever comes next.3.5/5 stars (rounded up to 4 for Amazon)* I was provided an ebook ARC for review by the author
3695097150	“What the fuck could happen? It’s a fucking shack. It’s an old, run-down piece of shit and Mark has a hard-on for it, for some goddamn reason.”Mike Thorn’s debut novel SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED is a remarkable journey into suburban insanity, adolescent rage, the power of addictions, the struggle for identity, and so much more.Having read Thorn’s short fiction—his short story collections DARKEST HOURS and DREAMS OF LAKE DRUKKA & EXHUMATION are essential—I went into this thinking I knew what to expect. Oh, many of Thorn’s hallmarks are here, to be sure; there’s gore, and violence, and unspeakable creatures in unexpected places. But SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED takes the reader deeper into the dark and tormented world Thorn continues to probe like that raw bloody tooth socket you can’t stop tonguing.Now, before I dive in, I want to mention that I felt something of a personal connection to the book’s setting, which is central to the story. Not the actual setting, of course, as that remains unspecified… but as it turns out I spent my teenage years in the same suburb as Mike Thorn (coincidentally enough, I moved back into the old neighbourhood in 2019). As such, I had no trouble at all picturing the streets, the strategically spaced-out greenspaces and playfields, Mark’s school, and even the convenience store as described in the book. But all suburbs built between 1970 and 2000 look, smell, and sound the same anyway (and all that has changed in those built after 2000 is cladding and lot size) so don’t feel that you’ll be at a disadvantage here if you grew up in some other postal district. What Thorn explores to great effect in SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED is what you don’t see when walking those streets at night. Malice lurking behind practiced smiles. Violence hidden behind manicured lawns. Subtle (and not-so-subtle) psychological warfare swirling behind double-glazed bay windows. There is no shelter to be found in these perfect little houses.Perhaps that’s why, when Mark and his friends find an old, abandoned wooden shack in a field one night, he feels drawn to it. His friends see the shack as a place to hang out, kill some time, and smoke some cigarettes, but before he even walks through the door Mark is overwhelmed with a euphoric sense of belonging. The Shack is everything suburban life is not, a home he never found in his parent’s house. The Shack soon edges out just about anything else in his thoughts (second at times only to the smile of a pretty girl in his math class). But it’s not long before the Shack begins to reveal its true nature and purpose, and Mark’s grip on reality and his own sanity start to slip.It’s clear, though, that Mark’s problems don’t begin with the Shack. His troubles at home and history of schoolyard violence stretch back to well before he ever laid eyes on the Shack. Perhaps that’s why, of the three youths who entered, he is the one chosen for the Shack’s diabolical ends. Answers about what exactly the Shack and its inhabitant(s?) are remain few through to the very end. It’s entirely possible (and in this reader’s opinion very likely) that the shack and the horrific entities within and without are all aspects of the same being. The whole thing veers toward cosmic horror, and while some readers may feel shorted by the ambiguity in the narrative, in my opinion keeping things vague in this regard works here.A short read, SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED crams a wealth into its roughly 190 pages. Thorn’s prose is stripped-down and accessible, and works to bring the reader into Mark’s adolescent POV. Where Thorn peppers in references to the giants of horror cinema (particularly Wes Craven, George A. Romero, and John Carpenter) could easily have come off as fanboyish, but some of the book’s most memorable scenes effectively call such visuals to mind; the creature in the closet is pure Carpenter, and is wonderfully realized. The lasting scares and most visceral horror herein, though, come from the more mundane elements. SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED is a powerful comment on idle suburbanism, and absolutely worth your time.Trigger & Content Warnings: Addiction, Alcoholism, Child Abuse, Psychological Abuse, Gore, Graphic Violence, Murder, Abduction/Luring, Mild Teen Sexuality, Overall Morbid ThemeMy thanks to the author and publisher for providing a complimentary advance copy for review. This in no way influenced my rating or review.
3702203527	There's been a lot of love for this short novel at the time of writing this, so I feel a bit awkward having to report more opposition than my fellow readers. That being said, I am by no means about to tell you I disliked this book. It's just I had some issues that dampered the experience for me.I think my biggest issues came during the first 40% of Shelter for the Damned. I felt like very little happened, aside from friends constantly fighting and cursing at each other. I also found the two fathers highlighted in this story to be over the top and unrealistic. It's one thing to have one father that is sadistic and evil, but two? It seemed a bit much, like the author was trying to pile on. I also thought their dialogue and actions were comical at times, like they were overacting. And why did the boys feel the need to break into a shack at all in the beginning? They were smoking out in a field. It seemed forced, not necessary.Now, let me move onto the positives. Once I got half way into this novel and things began to pick up, they came fast and furious. The intensity definitely cranks up, even if I expected more action than what we get in the end. The dialogue becomes less annoying, the scenes more frantic, and the world more sideways and questionable. The bizarre cosmic feel you get at times is just tops, leaving you to wonder how much of the violence and aggression is really due to the shack's evil presence. Also, as a whole, the writing is very good in this novel.Even if my experience with Shelter for the Damned wasn't as powerful as it was for others, I still found enough to enjoy that I would like to read Mike Thorn again. If you like stories about dysfunctional families and the violence they can spawn, look no further than this novel.***Highlights: The second half of the novel picks up at a break-neck speed … a vague ending that is strong and hauntingShadows: Overacting parents … some annoying dialogue … some unclear moments, like why a murderer was ever highlighted if he was never put to use in the story?FFO: Dysfunctional family drama and horror … rough characters that become unhingedTakeaway: Despite my share of complaints, I found Thorn’s writing to show great promise. Shelter for the Damned introduced me to an author to watch, at the very least. Would I read this author again? Yes***REVIEW BY AIDEN MERCHANT→ WWW.AIDENMERCHANT.COMCONTACT: CONTACT@AIDENMERCHANT.COMSOCIAL MEDIA: INSTAGRAM (AIDENMERCHANT.OFFICIAL) AND TWITTER (AIDENMERCHANT89)
3720037224	Following up 2017's Darkest Hours short story collection, Mike Thorn's debut novel Shelter For The Damned is both a gut punch portrayal of isolation and distancing felt in adolescence and a twisted cosmic horror dealing with male violence and shame.There are telling nods to his influences everywhere. If you follow Thorn on social media or read and of his printed articles or interviews, it's easy to see how well read he is and how movies influence in his work. The police officer called Selby (Hubert Selby Jnr), the absolute obsession with the shack was very King's Christine, or Jack Torrent in the Shining. The unknown entity (the shack) and it's possibilities have a nod to Koja's The Cipher. All these I am huge fans of, making this a must read. As with Darkest Hours, I really like the writing style, which is descriptive but not wordy. This is a book you could read in a few sittings if you wanted, but that you'll want to read slower, to take it all in. The obsession and hopelessness is pitched superbly throughout. And whilst it concentrates on Mark and his friends, the side characters are fleshed out so that their parent's suburban hell adds a delicate backdrop adding to the fear as the story shifts along. This book followed me around all weekend, by my side, so I could read it at every opportunity. Whilst Mark became obsessed with the shack in the story, I became obsessed with where the story went next. The ending was superb and rounded the book out perfectly. 2021 has already been a great year for horror, but this has to be up there as the best I've read so far.
3750400699	Mike Thorn's Darkest Hours will terrify you. If you've already read Thorn's masterpiece of short terrors, Darkest Hours, you will not be surprised that you're terrified; you may, however, be surprised as to why you are terrified. Shelter for the Damned certainly has all the shocks, gore, and nasty surprises that horror fans love. But beyond those genre requisites, this novel gets under the skin precisely because it gropes beyond genre, and triggers those more persistent terrors that live in all the layers of human experience. What if life is a meaningless nightmare? What if we are puppets in an uncaring universe? What if we have no real control over who we are, or what we do? What if dread, anxiety and depression have no real cure, and no good explanations at all?Telling the tale from the POV of an adolescent male is a perfect choice. Who is more confused than a self-identifying, adolescent young man? Who is thrashed about by more inchoate rage and self-doubt? Who is more self-destructive? Maybe everyone, but male youth is a perfect vehicle to express what may be a universal nightmare. Thorn presents male adolescence in all its granular horror—the small resentments, the misrecognitions, the petty power plays, the inchoate longing, the misdirected rage, the unexpected violence, and, most of all, the final failure to make meaning of all this teenage chaos.The result is a high-test narrative cocktail that you'll probably chug at a single sitting. But the novel also rewards long sips at second and third reading. Thorn's sleek and linear storytelling houses a complexity of almost folkloric dimensions: equal parts bildungsroman, addiction narrative, portal myth, doppelgänger fantasy, escalating nightmare, monster gorefest, scary boy’s tale, and old-school page turner.There are many dark delights to be had in Shelter for the Damned. But for me, the novel's lasting terror is its deeply felt paradox, its creation of an uncanny space between the real possibility that things will be different, and the certainty that they will not, on that threshold where intense longing for selfhood is dimmed and finally darkened by intense fear that selfhood will never arrive.Read it. And weep.
3771693145	Suburbia, in the middle of a field lay a shack.First few visits intriguing maybe, dread follows.The apparent and the unapparent lurks, great trepidation and malevolence to follow.In youth, boys had places to hang, yards, treehouses, caves, and playgrounds, the Shed is one trip in which at least one of these three boys, Mark Scott and Adam, would be thinking twice undertaking a step into its threshold again.This is Mark’s story, one of the three friends.Many things for Mark to decipher amidst the Shed’s pull.There is the Mark before and after the Shed.The metamorphosis is undeniable.The unsettled disturbed soul looking in crevices of life for answers but this may just be the wrong avenue for transcending.Hyper-real dreams and the addiction to some sense of inclusion and feeling whole.Ones battle with self, wrongs and disturbances, then there is the deciphering of the Shack with confronting real terrors, and “secret narratives,”a hook to keep burning though the tale.A capacity for a level of violence in the future something has the knowledge of and wants to advance any future violence to a terrible few days in this town with the macabre, with the most overwhelming form of influence, “invoking malice” and “terror resurrected”. There is a 2021 interview I hosted with the author @ https://more2read.com/review/interview-with-mike-thorn/Review @ https://more2read.com/review/shelter-for-the-damned-by-mike-thorn/
6477441024	Two thumbs up for "Shelter for the Damned"! I enjoyed this coming-of-age, teenage angst in suburbia horror novel. I like young adult horror fiction and to me this book fell under that category as well. The story revolves around young Mark and his friends as they discover a new hang out place where they can smoke cigarettes. The mysterious, hypnotic, and alluring Shack. A dwelling that harbors dark secrets and powers. It’s a place that Mark progressively gets obsessed about; a sanctuary he goes to when he needs to get away from the stressors and pressures of life. Eventually, Mark gets spellbound by the Shack and it winds up changing his life completely. The book is a great blend of different horrors: psychological, cosmic, YA horror, surrealistic, and dream-like. It was also an engaging, thrilling, and compelling character study not only of Mark and his friends, but also of adolescence/puberty, a difficult and transitory time in a person’s life. I really enjoyed the scenes with Mark and his parents and seeing how the human drama unfolded and seeing how the family tries to work out and resolve Mark’s issues. Likewise, I also enjoyed the scenes with Mark and Madeline Fraley (a girl he likes at school) and wanted to see their relationship blossom and flourish.
3769394716	** spoiler alert ** ⓇⒺⓋⒾⒺⓌShelter for the damned - Mike ThornMark and his group of friends discover a mysterious building - a shack, in the middle of a field when looking for somewhere to escape teenage life and smoke cigarettes.I was always told that smoking stunts your growth, amongst other things so I’ve alway given cigarettes a swerve.If only someone had told Mark and his friends, it may of prevented a whole heap of hot mess!Troubled teen Mark, soon feels a powerful pull towards the shack, but when the shack wants something in return for its hospitality Mark finds himself with a lot of blood on his hands.Shelter of the damned is a dark and violent coming of age tale which I thoroughly enjoyed, with just a couple of slight niggles (for me). I really wanted to connect to Mark and the friends relationship, but it seemed they weren’t that found on each other - almost constant bickering and arguing made me wonder why they were mates to begin with.I would of loved for the action to kick-off a bit sooner, however, once it did start it was full steam ahead.Despite those irks, this is a very good debut from the author and I will definitely be checking for his future releases. Thank you Mike for providing me with this Arc in exchange for an honest review.
3863257832	Super spooky and weird. I felt like some of the ending became a bit muddled, but it was a very interesting concept, and created a great tone.
3629073399	Detailed review to follow!
3730512391	A lucid suburban nightmare. Richly textured, visceral and haunting. I had the immense pleasure of reading an advanced copy and I can't recommend this enough. Top notch horror from Mike Thorn.
4146637738	"Mark gently pushed the warped, black wood, and it eased open. The room gaped at them like a gigantic mouth. Impenetrable darkness. Mark entered. His eyes wouldn't adjust to this blackness; it was unlike anything he'd experienced. Darker than darkness. Total, all-consuming mystery crushed between four ageless walls.".This book. 😳 .Three teenage friends - Mark, Adam, and Scott - stumble upon a place that shouldn't be there, a shack that shouldn't exist, sat in the middle of a field in a suburban neighborhood. Though they can't quite explain it, the place seems impossible - and disturbingly evil..The Shack wiggles its way into Mark's head, into a mind already on the edge. He cannot resist the pull of the Shack, and what follows is a descent into madness and violence.Part coming-of-age story, part exploration of the psyche, and part in-your-face horror, this book starts slow but picks up pace steadily til it's dragging the reader along in a rush of intensity and blood.I really enjoyed this one. It was hard to keep the three guys straight at first and the beginning was slow, but once the story started rolling...man, it was good.
3732084457	Near the end of Mike Thorn’s 2021 "Shelter of the Damned" plays in the backyard of a well-worn trope: that the experience of the white, middle-class suburbs isn’t what it seems. However, Thorn elevates this anxiety to pure existential (even metaphysical) dread. Near the end of the novel, a crack opens up in the wall of the shack. This is the crack in the quiet suburban world his characters inhabit and through it pours everything our better natures suppress. Mark and his two friends, Adam and Scott, discover the shack early in the novel. They use it as a place to smoke and get away from their families, all of which are overbearing in different ways. The abandoned shack sits in an overgrown field, an improbable presence in their carefully curated suburban landscape.It is surrounded by perfect houses, their windows peering at them like eyes. The novel’s logic is carried by the idea of looking—of scrutiny. Scott’s father won’t allow a hair to be out of place on his son’s head, enforcing in him a fear of the juvenile rule breaking which is part of the suburban individuation process. Adam’s father is a violent drunk who maintains the self-presentation of a handsome corporate CEO. Both of them exert suffocating authority through the maintenance of appearances.Mark’s father, always a hair’s breadth from a violent outburst, compulsively cuts the lawn, as though he could transmute his aggressive impulses into a continued beautification project. However, Thorn doesn’t make you look under the grass to find a raw state of nature. Aggression spills out at the slightest provocation; conflict escalates with strangers, classmates, parents and each other. Life in Shelter for the Damned is what you see in a nature documentary: a never-ending ordeal of running and fighting.The shack represents more than an escape: it’s an inversion of suburban living. The grass in the field, unchecked by any mower, has grown to an uncouth height. The shack itself has no presentational mandate. In fact, it is curiously undefined: “Gray walls of unknown material and obscure memories. Shapeless structure, shapeless purpose.”The shack is little more than a novelty for Adam and Scott—it’s just a place to light some smokes and shoot the shit. However, for Mark, there is an immediate pull: “As soon as he entered, he didn’t want to leave. He was not equipped to understand. He only knew that, in this strange and intense moment, he wanted to breathe the shack’s squalid air forever.”The shack soon starts to exert a powerful influence on Mark’s priorities. He feels a sharp need to be in the shack as the novel progresses, as though it magnifies something deep inside him that he is unsure of. When he is there alone for the first time, a tall lanky entity manifests. Tellingly, it reminds him of a junkie. Mark himself slips into withdrawal whenever he is not in the shack. He panics and shakes. When he confronts an addict on the street panhandling from Adam, he reacts violently. He cracks the man’s skull with a rock and the reader is left to ponder who the real junkie is.This is a coming of age story, but it's also a novel about violence and addiction. Thorn brings these thematics into alignment. A sinister force sends Mark into spiral of murder, but the violence lurking just below the surface of his community leave the reader pondering how much of what results is the work of the creature and how much is the result of this otherwise unassuming neighborhood.The novel’s pacing is relentless. You may find yourself breathing only during page turns. Thorn has a real knack for building intensity to a fever pitch and letting the effect carry over into the action. His prose is smooth and his dialogue stretches the anger of juvenile angst without forcing it into unnatural banter. What’s really terrifying about this novel is it’s fidelity to the suburban experience—that is, what’s scary is how realistic so much of it is.Thorn writes with a visceral intensity. After Mark’s first fight with Clinton, he runs to the shack: “He was still shaking while he ran. He pushed his body, mind putting matter into a stranglehold, and he ran faster. The shakes became tremors. Rattled his body as he sprinted down the sidewalk. He kept going. Tried to run the shakes away. He ran until dull pain came thudding into his chest.”What’s so intense about this novel is how closely the narrative follows Mark’s experience. Note the absence of a grammatical subject in several of these sentences. It’s as though Mark himself were talking and too out of breath to give the reader fully coherent statements. But also, this subjective elision is a way of making him disappear. Mark’s greatest fear, ultimately realized at the end of the novel, isn’t to die, but to simply disappear. Prose like this tells us that throughout the entire novel, Mark is performing a vanishing act—existing, but not being there.This is a supple and yet powerful debut--much recommended for fans or horror (and David Lynch movies).
3707255804	It's such a treat to read a coming-of-age novel more dark and violent than most stories concerning violent adults. This is the kind of twisted novel I was dying to read when I was coming of age myself, and hits hard even now during some of its more graphic scenes of violence. It follows troubled teenager Mark, who, it seems to me, is a sociopath, as he discovers a shack in the middle of a field near his home where an evil presence has manifested, requiring murder of Mark, who, at first, seems quite happy to oblige. Mark becomes addicted to the sensation of being inside the shack; perhaps Mark gets off on the feeling of been seen--really seen--as a powerful being in his own right, willing and able to commit murder, rather than merely the weirdo fuck-up viewed by his friends, family, and peers. But, as happens with evil partnerships, all quickly unravels for Mark as his relationship with this evil being becomes one of master and slave, threats and submission, fear and blood.This element of the story reminded me of the bully in Stephen King's It who, as a psychologically twisted adult, carries out the will of the creature feeding on the town of Derry. The evil creature here shares similarities to King's creature, but Mike Thorn's Shelter for the Damned is ultimately a much darker tale than King's. Rather than explore themes such as overcoming fears and discovering friendships, Thorn delves into social isolation and otherness, toxic masculinity and male violence, addiction, the nightmarish paranoia of suburbia, and, behind it all, a kind of existential hopelessness that you don't find in a King novel. There is a cosmic aspect to this story as it progresses that brings to mind H.P. Lovecraft's short story The Colour Out of Space, which was itself brought to vivid realization last year in a film of the same name directed by Richard Stanley starring Nicholas Cage. That film, with its stunning and at times grotesque visuals, cosmic theme, surprising violence, and characters' descents into madness, is a good starting point for an idea of what you will encounter in Shelter for the Damned. Thorn's ability to trap the reader inside a vivid scene is second to none, particularly when Thorn somehow describes, painterly and with detail, what can not be described. Such descriptions are almost hallucinogenic, and bring to this novel a depth that elevates it above most in this genre. Its themes of the violence of masculinity and sheer pressures of masculinity on the men who strive to meet them are layered and impressive (and important), illustrated best in the sudden violence that surges out of a scene like a flash of lightning to retreat just as quick--which makes it realistic and, therefore, chilling. And this is indeed a chilling novel, with many scenes that lift the hairs on the back of the neck. Structurally, this is an unusual story in that, when you think you have the structure figured out, Thorn pulls the rug out from under you and, like the evil being at the core of this book, the plot mutates as Mark's situation becomes increasingly dire until an unpredictable and clever ending cements what you already knew: Mike Thorn's Shelter for the Damned is one of a kind--a staggeringly excellent debut by a promising new voice in horror.
3773645694	*I received free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review*Shelter for the Damned is tale of violence, adolescence, and the price of being silenced. Following three young boys as they try their damndest to navigate their complicated lives while grappling with father’s who are violent, arrogant, controlling, and alcoholic, trying to find their own sense of identity and masculinity, Thorn creates a tale that is bitter, heart-wrenching, and disturbing.The discovery of an abandoned shack, seemingly untouched by any other’s hands, the boys each experience their own feelings about it. Scott and Adam are wary of the place, uncertain about coming back even for a place to smoke in peace. But Mark is drawn to it like an addict to their drug of choice. For him it is a place where he feels at peace, where he can escape the constant threat of violence at home, the feeling of being unheard, the feeling of being an outcast. For Mark, he will do anything to get back to the shack, and the shack will ask just that of him.Dealing with themes of familial tension, coming of age growing pains, and an otherworldly darkness creeping into ‘safe’ suburban lives, Thorn shows his skill as a story teller, a character builder, and an adept horror writer.
3867003608	In this promising debut novel, Mike Thorn expands upon some of the horror themes explored in his excellent story collection, Darkest Hours. At the same time, he perfectly captures both the jittery uncertainty and the banality of suburban teenage existence, in a coming-of-age story with teeth and claws.Everything is mapped out for the young protagonist, and yet nothing makes sense to him. Keenly aware of his mother’s disappointment and his father’s toxic influence, Mark is yet unable to explain his propensity for violence. He aims to be more responsible, but everything he does takes him further from his objective.When Mark discovers a deserted shack and begins visiting it late at night, he doesn’t understand the hold the place has on him. Is his yearning for this strange spot a psychological need, or is the place reaching out to envelop him in its miasma of rage and brutality?Are Mark’s actions occurring at the behest of a supernatural entity, or do they signal impending madness? Can he distinguish his will from the spirit behind this terrifying power, or is he doomed to be absorbed by it? With expert pacing and plot twists worthy of a seasoned pro, the author will keep you guessing until the very last page.
3762016394	This story follows Mark, a troubled teenager with troubled friends, Adam and Scott. They love to hang out together, play video games, and smoke cigarettes. In their wandering hangouts, they come across a shack in the middle of a field in suburbia; it's abandoned. They claim it as their own and find it to be a fun, albeit creepy spot to smoke and escape their home realities. Adam and Scott seem able to take it or leave it, leaning more towards leaving it, but for Mark it becomes an obsession and calls to him when he is apart from it. One night, he entices his friends to join him again at the shack, and reluctantly they join him, even though they don't feel the same way about it that he does. Everything changes for the worst that night when all three boys realize that the shack houses, maybe even embodies, something faceless, nameless, and evil, and its hope is to use Mark as its vessel."Shelter for the Damned" is a supernatural horror story that touches on the needs of the young who have hard, sometimes abusive lives. It gives off the feeling that had these boys received the love and compassion every human being deserves, they might not have been so inclined towards the darkness that is the Shack. Negligence, abuse, and the pain of youth all play a part in drawing these kids into something bigger than themselves, but there is some ambiguity here that also says anyone could have found that shack and been pulled into its sinister needs because it's just that powerful. There seems to be a lesson here that says people can't really win against evil by playing its game, but once you start falling down that hole it's nearly impossible to pull yourself back out of it. Then when you're in that hole, or shack, because of irreversible actions, you've already found shelter for the damned, so why not make yourself at home? The writing and editing in this book is good. I love a book that keeps my eyes strolling along a page easily and quickly with no distractions like grammatical errors or spacing issues. It made reading this book a pleasure. I kept one line highlighted because it really summed up what a person who is experiencing a supernatural situation while simultaneously trying to deal with 'normal life' might be thinking, "He selected his words with great caution. Thoughts of unthinkable violence, of the Shack's faceless face, kept gnawing holes through the utter banality of this conversation." I left this book with an aftertaste of unending horror and a real sense of loss. It made me want to seek out Mike Thorn (who happens to live in the same city as me!) and ask him what his own childhood was like, and who hurt him. I recommend it!A big thank you to Mike Thorn for providing Horrorbound.net with an ARC and you'll find my review coming there soon!
3761584298	To sum up my thoughts on this book in one word, I’m IMPRESSED. Horror books can be predictable and all read the same after a while, and it’s rare that I come across one that stands out as being so deeply smart and psychologically complex while also being creepy and appropriately bloody. You can tell how much time and effort went into making this book as good as it could be. Though the premise and setting aren’t particularly abnormal, the author digs deep into the psyche of the main character and warps everything into a maddening descent from ordinary suburban life to a truly horrifying nightmare. The writing itself is extremely enjoyable if you’re a nerd like me who applauds that sort of thing. The dialogue is completely believable as coming from teenage boys. Even beyond that, it feels like you’re hearing the adults speak through the ears of a teenage delinquent – the parents sound out of touch and full of hollow punishments, the teachers are bland and authoritative without much personality, and the abusive dad’s chummy charade is approached with humoring caution…for a while. The main aspect of the writing that I loved was that the descriptions don’t rely solely on visuals but also draw you in again and again with unusual descriptions of smells, tastes, and sounds that remind you exactly of what the author means – for example, “empty, humming with the kind of drip-drop, fuzzy white silence saved especially for public restrooms.” Again, this is a psychological kind of horror story. There are bursts of action that are quite graphic, but the slow internal buildup was the part that was even more frightening, to me. The toxic masculinity of the father figures is frightening in how subtly and believably it breaks these boys. I was never sure quite what to think of Mark, and that works great to pull you along, especially considering Mark isn’t sure what to think of himself as he untangles whatever the Shack is doing to him. And there’s something wonderfully creepy about using an unexplainable building as a source of evil. I loved the way it all starts as “a gust of heat sighed from inside, breathed into his skin, massaged his muscles and coiled his bones.” I highly, highly recommend this one if you’re a lover of language who also likes a good horror story.
3696912141	** spoiler alert ** Thank you to the author for an e-arc of this book in exchange for my honest review. You.I.We. This book takes place in 2003 (yyyaasssss) and starts out with three teenage boys who come across a weird abandoned shack in the middle of the woods. The main character, Mark, is oddly drawn to the shelter and slowly becomes obsessed with it which leads to a wild ride for readers. Throughout the story you really don't know if Mark is ultimately losing his mind or if the shack is actually "magically evil" in some way.I really enjoyed his love interest, Madeline, and how awkwardly perfect they were for one another. I couldn't help but relate to her and her strange taste in boys (ha). As the book went along, I was rooting for them to work out or to have her somehow become his hero but that's not exactly the case. The pacing of the book was perfect--in the beginning, it feels like your standard story and as the book continues on, it feels as if it speeds up and becomes more unpredictable; resembling what Mark was going through as he was spiraling out of control. This book ended up being a lot deeper and creepier than I was expecting. Once we get to the climax of his story, I couldn't help but frantically read just to know what was going to happen next. Then the ending happens which made me question what I just read so I reread that who crazy sequence and wow..it gave me goosebumps.This book touches on subjects of parental relationships (heavy on the father figures) and interpersonal relationships with friends. I loved Marks character and empathized with him so much that it hurt at times. All you want to do is help him during his complete breakdown. I was living for the gore and the moments of violence was very believable making them unsettling--the suspense of it all! Also, the magical realism in this reminded me a little bit of Stephen King but not as overdone like King.Thorn has a great flow to his writing style and executed this tragic story in such a beautiful way. I look forward to reading more from this author.[I read this in a reading vlog where I go more into detail--link in profile]4/5
5223447724	Weeks later I'm still thinking about this book so deserves 5 star. It feels great to be the cover designer on Spanish edition 😂
3752941341	May contain spoilers: “Suburban somewhere, 2003”: a world suffused with dread and waking nightmares. For Mark and his friends, a landscape of bubbling brutality amidst quotidian displays of violence. Monsters in the closet both figurative and literal, none of which is as crushing as the macerating authority figures in their lives, prompting moonlit nights spent probing for a place to smoke a fucking cigarette, and maybe even to feel something “right”… Cast like a malefic spell by Mike Thorn in his tremendous debut novel Shelter for the Damned, the urge to seek sanctuary amidst turmoil propels an estimable work of Lovecraftian Horror, where obsession leads to eradication. At the center of the narrative, a formless Shack. It becomes Mark’s sick, totalizing obsession, a manifestation of subconscious ennui and learned violence which lures him within its colorless, formless walls. In Thorn’s cinematic depictions, this obsession is figured as an act of sheer desperation, a confused stumble from darkness, seeking escape from a mean reality. But in this feverous page-turner, even the act of seeking shelter can open us to exploitation. Thorn likens teenage angst to cosmic horror, where the central evil announces itself as a sentient consciousness, but is also manifested as a reflective doppelgänger. A golem heaped with all the rot of society. A kind of spectral unconscious bursting forth as an arachnoid monster from the depths of hell—the tip of the iceberg. Thorn brilliantly traces the psychology of his adolescents through the trappings of teenage suburbia. Though the characters seem influenced by everyone from Wes Craven to Stephen King, the explosive scenes of violence recall the scenes of dismemberment in John Carpenter or Lucio Fulci films. These scenes illustrate Thorn’s ability to tap into Horror’s capacity to turn scenes of abjection into the stuff of drama and revelation: when Macduff re-enters with Macbeth’s severed head, it should alert us that Horror has always been the exclamatory punctuation at the end of tragedies.
3868547827	You... I... We...No spoilers. 4 stars. Well this was certainly an unpredictable story. It left me uncertain as to what happened but here goes with my attempt at the synopsis...Mark (the main character), Adam and Scott are best friends. Although I don't remember the book ever saying so, I believe they are high school boys...One night, while hanging out and looking for a place to smoke, they see an abandoned out building silhouetted against the moon in a field...... it was too small to be a house and looked more like a large shed....... it looked old and weathered yet the windows weren't broken and it hadn't been vandalized or spray painted by the local kids...How had the boys never seen it before?... just sitting there in the field?... they decided it was a good place to sneak a smoke and hang out...As they approached, they noticed there wasn't a doorknob and no hole where one might have been... the closer they got the more inviting the house seemed and it radiated warmth...Inside, the walls were shadowy, the windows grimey, everything was wooden and gray. There was a second story up some rickety stairs that led to one room...... Moonlight leaked through the rot...The boys sat cross-legged on the floor and lit up. The shed was cool... it felt like Satan's pad... they talked dirty and smoked in the shadows of the shed...They decided to explore the room at the top of the stairs but Scott disappeared and was never seen again...Mark, a troubled boy... more so than the other two, felt drawn to the shed... it wanted Mark...The shed had a pull Mark couldn't resist...You. I. We.This was indeed a strange story. The first 43% was a little boring and I began to believe that I had picked up a YA novel in error but at that point the story changed and became ultra bizarre. I'm still not sure I understand what happened but at 95% I couldn't put the book down until I finished.Another good book about children and a spooky shed is NEVERLAND by Douglas Clegg.
3986849252	Mark never seems to do the right thing. He angers quickly. He can't keep his mouth shut. His life is a series of apologies. Mark is stumbling through life until he comes across the shack. A private sanctuary where he can smoke and relax. A place of his own. All he can think about is going back there. But the more he visits the shack the more it demands of him. Will Mark succumb to its growing needs? How much will he sacrifice for its warm embrace? Part cosmic horror part coming of age novel, this is a story of a teenager unravelling. Of internalizing rage until it can't help but boil over. Of boys dealing with immense levels of mental and physical abuse, and having no outlet to release their overwhelming emotions. All while maintaining the facade of masculinity. It's about being a total and complete fuckup and outsider. And there's some gnarly gore too if that's your thing. While a slow burn it's definitely brisk and bingeable, could absolutely have finished this in one sitting.
7580586099	Unsettling riff on the haunted house genre. Three teenaged boys stumble across a dilapidated shack that begins to exert a powerful pull on their minds. Thorn (great horror author name, BTW) brings a perceptive empathy to his alienated adolescents while also delivering a lean, propulsive frightmare. Woven with themes of addiction and abuse, this hallucinogenic slice of cosmic horror confronts the myriad horrors of youth and offers very little shelter, for the damned or otherwise.
4322639637	Mike Thorn's Shelter for the Damned tells the story of one troubled young man's descent into the terrifying depths of compulsion as he wrestles with his place in life, his challenges at home, and his own consuming flaws. It's beautifully written, and absolutely engaging. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
4142888508	Mesmerizing...
5528284195	"UNA NOVELA DE TERROR PESIMISTA, CASI CÓSMICA, SOBRE LA VIOLENCIA SUBURBANA, LAS ADICCIONES Y EL CONDICIONAMIENTO MASCULINO"Un libro de terror psicológico. De esas historias en las que los monstruos más crueles y despiadados son los humanos.Una trama que va de menos a más en la que desde el inicio sabes que el protagonista estallará y llegará a la locura extrema.He detectado algunas fallas en la historia las cuales no me han permitido disfrutar plenamente de la lectura. Creo que "LOS FINALES A INTERPRETACIÓN DEL LECTOR" definitivamente no terminan por convencerme y creo que cada vez son más los autores que recurren a ellos cuando no saben cómo cerrar sus historias... Algo que le resta estrellas a mi calificación y a la experiencia final.
5218042621	Me costó un poco entrar en la historia porque al principio se centra demasiado en demostrar que el protagonista, Mark, es problemático, y resulta un poco repetitivo (nos damos cuenta a la primera de que lo es, no hace falta que se haga tanto hincapié). No es hasta casi la mitad del libro cuando la cosa empieza a mejorar, aunque con altibajos, y se centra en lo que sería la historia de terror, aunque en realidad sigue siendo una gran metáfora sobre la rabia y la frustración adolescente que me costó digerir un poco, cuyo final me pareció redondo.
5015386571	Engaging, edge of the seat, fast paced read. Cosmic horror at its best. Three friends discover a shack in the middle of a field and decide to go inside. Don't wanna give too much away, but it was actually scary, and was pretty violent and bloody. Loved the way it ended, although was sort of confused about what happened to Madeline. I'd recommend this to any horror fan.
4319070832	Being a mentally ill teenager from an abusive household is already tough, but encountering cosmic horrors in a random shack can make things even more rough. I enjoy short form horror so much more than longer horror novels, so this hit the spot for me. The ending was my favorite part. 😁
3874058504	Catch Mike out here making me jump at every shadow I see as I ready for my 6AM work shift. Disquieting in a way I don't think many modern horror full length novels are, and probably one of the best ghost stories this side of the millennium.
4246000426	Spooky shit
3937089544	2.5 stars When I saw friend of the blog and amazing horror artist Trevor Henderson illustrated the cover of this novel, I knew I had to have it. I know, superficial reason, but it might be the most affordable way to own a piece of Trevor’s artwork in my home. To be fair, I also looked into many reviews for Shelter for the Damned. I heard near-universal praise regarding the book’s themes of coming-of-age, masculinity, the repression of the suburbs, and how terrifying it all was.While I can agree that Mike Thorn is a good writer and the realistic themes of the novel were extremely well-done, the supernatural and cosmic horror advertised on the cover just aren’t up to snuff. At least for me, that is.Read the rest of the review here.
4750207684	Ending was just a little too ambiguous for me. Loved it, otherwise!
4291567246	I enjoyed some of the author's prose more than the actual story, even to the very last line. He has chops. Otherwise, I found this a bit more depressing than scary, and the violence felt sort of tacked on because it needed to intensify. I never got the feeling that I understood what the protagonist's problems were, they never felt earned despite some of the social interactions with his peers and the boys' parents. But then you get to that last line and its poignant, it sticks with you for a few moments. Essentially this felt like a poor man's IT; the ages might be a couple years off, the 'clown' takes on a different form, but it evokes a similar vibe. Maybe a bit of the comic GIDEONS FALL too, though SHELTER FOR THE DAMNED is brisk and short and doesn't have the time to develop a comparable mythology to either of those.Halloween 2021 Read 20/20
3905787442	The story of a teenage boy's descent into evil. Not the most original idea in the world, but sadly, one which will become more relevant as the loosening of COVID restriction unleashes a fresh wave of mass shootings in America (two in the last week -- wonderful!). Mr. Thorn can create an atmosphere, I'll give him that. But "Shelter for the Damned" is either a too-long short story or a too-short novel, and was not ready for publication in either case. Even the title seems like the vestige of a second draft that should have been corrected while proofreading the third. If Mr. Thorn decides to either shrink or expand this novella, it'll be disturbing. Right now it's just kind of creepy.
6280790225	The body horror was effectively gross and the creepy atmosphere worked, but these characters made no sense and I constantly asked myself “who talks like this?” It was really hard to understand why any of the characters did or didn’t do things, like to the point where I couldn’t tell if their actions were being influenced by evil forces or what (still not certain but I don’t think that’s what was going on). I was excited for horror about a “bad teen” friend group, but these kids are horrible friends to each other throughout. And not in an interesting way.
4130225124	2.5 starsWell! That was something. Not sure what I was expecting; I'm quite sure I bought this from a Thriller ebook bundle, so I was thinking along the lines of zombies or ghosts.... I guess?Except for Madeline, Scott (poor guy), and the mum, every other character was kind of an ass. I'm not sure if I'm supposed to feel sorry for Mark, he made his damn best to be so gawd damn unlikeable to me, but things really escalated as the book neared its end and besides me feeling what-the-fuck-ery, I was mostly ambivalent.
3875422297	I love discovering new and unique stories in all genres, you that kind of stories that are different, that doesn't fit the mold, that turns the mold upside down and makes you think and feel differently.I had high hope that Shelter for the Damned would be that kind of a story. And it was in a way. Teenagers look for a place to smoke, where no one can see them and they come across the shack in the field. Mark, Adam, and Scott enter the shack. They each come with baggage, especially Mark. He struggles with anger, rage and doesn't connect with his family. He seems detached from normal life and the shack provides escape for him. But it's not just a small building, there is something more sinister lurking behind. And it wanted Mark. It's not like anything I've ever read before. The start is kind of slow, and then it gets weird. :) It's intense and scary at the same time. The only thing I didn't like was the writing style, it worked for the story, but I had a hard time connecting with it.received from author
4052320233	170 pages of people asking a kid what's wrong with him and him apologizing for acting weird. 16 pages of tepid spooks. *yawn*
7503506397	coming of age horror always throws me a little. I'm not much for subtext exchange of events factual or mystical. That's probably more on me. I liked what this could of been without that being so on point.
5475470573	Aquí mi reseña:
4336793148	I have to say, I love these shorter horror novels/novellas. They tend to be quick and more to the point for someone craving a thrill without wanting to devote a ton of reading time to it. Shelter For The Damned is a fast paced coming of age horror novel that is part a descent into insanity and part an allegory for addiction. I definitely plan to read more from Mike Thorn
4040810836	I really don’t like leaving bad reviews on a book - simply because I know the author spent time and dedication to get their story published. And, it seems like most reviews are in favor of the book. However, I struggled to finish this story. The last half of the book did pick up, but by the time I got there, I wasn’t really invested in the story anymore.
