780882206	***Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction 2014. Congratulations Donna Tartt!*** ”And I’m hoping there’s some larger truth about suffering here, or at least my understanding of it--although I’ve come to realize that the only truths that matter to me are the ones I don’t, and can’t, understand. What’s mysterious, ambiguous, inexplicable. What doesn’t fit into a story, what doesn’t have a story….Because--what if that particular goldfinch (and it is very particular) had never been captured or born into captivity, displayed in some household where the painter Fabritius was able to see it? It can never have understood why it was forced to live in such misery: bewildered by noise ( as I imagine), distressed by smoke, barking dogs, cooking smells, teased by drunkards and children, tethered to fly on the shortest of chains. Yet even a child can see its dignity; thimble of bravery, all fluff and brittle bone. Not timid, not even hopeless, but steady and holding its place. Refusing to pull back from the world.” The Goldfinch by Carel Fabritius 1654This story begins with an act of terror in modern day New York, but this story could also be said to have started in 1654 when Fabritius, with deft hand, painted his masterpiece, a luminescent bird, a Goldfinch. Theo Decker is a child, with a mother obsessed with art. She frequently would skip buying lunch to have enough money to go to a museum. It is easy to give up food when one is about to nourish the soul. She in particular wants to see The Goldfinch and she wants to share that experience with Theo. ”She’d never seen a great painting in person until she was eighteen and moved to New York and she was eager to make up for lost time--’pure bliss, perfect heaven,’ she’d said, up to the neck in art books and poring over the same old slides (Manet, Vuillard) until her vision started to blur, (‘It’s crazy’, she’d said, ‘but I’d be perfectly happy if I could sit looking at the same half dozen paintings for the rest of my life. I can’t think of a better way to go insane.’)””We have art in order not to die from the truth.”----Nietzsche In 1992 Donna Tartt had a pixie cuteness that inspired literary crushes from coast to coast.Donna Tartt is a master of language, but she really excels when she is composing people. This description of Theo’s mother manifested her before me as if she were flesh and blood in the room with me. ”She had black hair, fair skin that freckled in summer, china-blue eyes with a lot of light in them, and in the slant of her cheekbones there was such an eccentric mixture of the tribal and the Celtic Twilight that sometimes people guessed she was Icelandic. In fact she was half Irish, half Cherokee, from a town in Kansas near the Oklahoma border; and she liked to make me laugh by calling herself an Okie even though she was as glossy and nervy and stylish as a racehorse.” The Dead Goldfinch by George Elgar HicksWhile at the museum a terrorist bomb explodes at a moment when Theo is separated from his mother. He never sees her again. Somehow in the confusion he walks out with an antique dealer’s ring that was placed in his hands by the dying owner, and the painting, The Goldfinch. Theo is placed with his friend Andy’s family for a time. They live on Park Avenue, and though they try their best to make him feel welcome it is impossible for him to ever feel like anything other than a charity case. ”Mrs. Barbour was from a society family with an old Dutch name, so cool and blonde and monotone that sometimes she seemed partially drained of blood. She was a masterpiece of composure; nothing ever ruffled her or made her upset, and though she was not beautiful her calmness had the magnetic pull of beauty--a stillness so powerful that the molecules realigned themselves around her when she came into a room.”For all Mrs. Barbour’s money and perceived social power she can not trump one thing...a blood relative. She feels guilty and relieved when Theo’s long gone, long lost, father appears. He has the scent of insurance money in his nose. He has a gambling addiction that rains money when he wins, but when he loses the vig requires a blizzard of money to fix. He sells off everything of his wife’s possessions that can be sold, and hauls Theo out to Las Vegas. NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!His father acted in a handful of bit parts in Hollywood for a few years before washing out. ”From the genial cursing, his infrequent shaving, the relaxed way he talked around the cigarette in the corner of his mouth, it was almost as if he were playing a character: some cool guy from the fifties noir or maybe Ocean’s Eleven, a lazy, sated gangster with not much to lose. Yet even in the midst of his laid-backness he still had that crazed and slightly heroic look of schoolboy insolence, all the more stirring since it was drifting toward autumn, half-ruined and careless of itself.” I wouldn’t have thought it was possible to make Donna Tartt look like Gertrude Stein. Seriously who do I need to talk to about this?Theo’s father is not interested in parenting any more now than he was when he lived with Theo and his wife. In other words Theo is turned loose allowed to roam, and do whatever he wants to do. Theo meets Boris, a Russian kid with even less supervision than Theo, and falls into a hedonistic lifestyle of drugs and alcohol abuse that will haunt him for the rest of his life. The need to escape becomes a pattern that by necessity has to become more and more creative as he swims his way through a sea of pills and booze into adulthood. ”On the marble top of the dresser I crushed one of my hoarded old-style Oxycontins, cut it and drew it into lines with my Christie’s card and--rolling the crispest bill in my wallet--leaned to the tables, eyes damp with anticipation: ground zero, bam, bitter taste in the back of the throat and then the gust of relief, falling backward on the bed as the sweet old punch hit me square in the heart: pure pleasure, aching and bright; far from the tin-can clatter of misery.”I wonder if Tartt’s writing buddy, Bret Easton Ellis, was a consultant for the descriptions of drug use that are sprinkled throughout the novel. Bret Easton Ellis: drug, party, sex consultant.Meanwhile The Goldfinch follows along with Theo. Before leaving New York Theo returns the ring, that he was given at the museum, to a man named Hobie who turns out to be a business partner of the deceased man. Hobie is a furniture restoring expert. He keeps parts from unsalvageable antiques and uses those pieces to replace damaged sections on salvageable antiques. He also creates new pieces of furniture by marrying filigree to a plain piece as long as the wood dates from the same period. He is an artist. He calls these pieces of furniture his changelings. Theo soon realizes that most people are looking for a deal/steal and he has no difficulty acting the rube to play on their greed. He begins selling these changelings as real antiques. If someone complains he gives their money back and at the same time creates provenance that the antique came from their collection. He uses that provenance to sell the next person. Brilliant, illegal, but brilliant. He meets Pippa, who stays with Hobie from time to time. She was also hurt in the blast at the museum. When circumstances allow him to escape, the hell-hole called Las Vegas, he lands back on Hobie’s doorstep or should I say in much better proximity to Pippa.”Terrified she was going to catch me staring, unable to wrench my eyes away, I watched her studying my iPod with bent head: ears rosy-pink, raised line of scar tissue slightly puckered underneath the scalding-red hair. In profile her downcast eyes were long, heavy-lidded, with a tenderness that reminded me of the angels and page boys in the Northern European Masterworks book I’d checked and re-checked from the library.”Oh yeah, he’s got it bad...for life. Pippa is forever linked with his mother, not because she knew his mother, but because she entered his life at the very moment his mother left it. ”You can look at a picture for a week and never think of it again. You can also look at a picture for a second and think of it all your life.”Theo hasn’t been able to bear looking at The Goldfinch for a long time. It is an overwhelming cauldron of pain, guilt, beauty, loss, and lust on the order of Gollum’s passion for the One-Ring. If he looks at it too often he will become totally possessed. ”I thought of all the places I’d been and all the places I hadn’t, a world lost and vast and unknowable, dingy maze of cities and alleyways, far-drifting ash and hostile immensities, connections missed, things lost and never found, and my painting swept away on the powerful current and drifting out there somewhere: a tiny fragment of spirit, faint spark bobbing on a dark sea.” Fabritius Self-PortraitSo there is a painting, stolen, carried all over the country, lost, found, stolen again, and finally found once more. So there is a boy blown up, lost, found, lost, lost, lost, and dare we to hope he is to be found once more? This book is full of beautiful, lyrical language, and a cast of characters that could have competed with a book from the Victorian era. I couldn’t help rooting for Theo in the same way that I rooted for David Copperfield and Oliver Twist. Even when he is surrounded by people, even people that would gladly offer him whatever help he could desire, he is lonely, caught in a cycle of grief that can’t be shared or unburdened. The life he was supposed to have was taken from him, and now he is chained to a bastardized life like Fabitius’s Goldfinch. A life that can never quite be understood, and a life made nearly unbearable by the memory of flight. ”For if disaster and oblivion have followed this painting down through time--so too has love. Insofar as it is immortal (and it is) I have a small, bright, immutable part in that immortality. It exists; and it keeps on existing. And I add my own love to the history of people who have loved beautiful things, and looked out for them, and pulled them from the fire, and sought them when they were lost, and tried to preserve them and save them while passing them along literally from hand to hand, singing out brilliantly from the wreck of time to the next generation of lovers, and the next.”See more of my writing at http://www.jeffreykeeten.com You can like my blog page on Facebook here. JeffreyKeeten Blog page
568217747	So listen. Look. I am a READER, right? I mean, I read all the time, everywhere, every day, a book a week. But most of the time the book I'm reading is a dull throb beneath my fingers, a soft hum behind my eyes, a lovely way to spend a bit of time in between things as I meander through my life. You know? It's something I adore, but softly, passively, and often forgetfully—very nice while it's happening, but flitting away quickly after I'm on to the next.And then sometimes there is a book that is more like a red hot fucking coal, a thrum nearly audible whenever I'm close to it, a magnetic pull that stops me doing anything else and zings me back so strongly that I just want to bury myself in its tinnitus at all times—five minutes in line a the bank, two minutes in the elevator, thirty seconds while my coffee date checks her email—gorging myself with sentences and paragraphs until the whole world recedes and shrivels into flat black-and-white nothing.This, this, this is one of those books. It's a book that bracingly reaffirms my faith in literature, making me endlessly astonished by its power and poise and brilliance. I know I am constantly chided for hyperbole, but this is truly one of the greatest books I've ever read. Probably it's a result of the endless march of mediocre books that plague the publishing industry these days—self-pub and traditional; I'm holding the major presses hella accountable too—but a book like this, so full and deep and flawlessly constructed, is just such a shock, such a pure clear joy. Every element is fucking perfect. Every element, truly! The plot, the characters, the pacing, the tone, all the little details, so so many tiny details, all perfectly, astonishingly slotted into place; the patois and the slang and the dialogue and the descriptions, oh my god the descriptions, from a smile to a chandelier to a mood; even the goddamn chapter epigraphs, which, who even reads those? But they're perfect, she's perfect, this book is just a knock-down, drag-out wonder. And it covers so much ground, with no shortcuts: from the Upper West Side moneyed elite to gambling addicts in the suburbs of Vegas, from a Lower East Side drug den for decadents gone to seed to the charming Christmastime streets of Amsterdam. Nothing is two-dimensional: if a characters restores furniture, you will learn so goddamn much about wood and veneers and myriad adherents; if another is a sailor, you will feel the wind in your hair and the goddamn spray of surf on your cheeks.Philosophy, art history, baccarat, heroin. Proust, childhood bullies, Russian drug-dealers. The cut of a jewel, the play of light through a crooked blind. The way a small dog remembers someone it hasn't seen in ten years. The way the very rich handle mental illness in the family. The way a teenage boy feels after taking acid for the first time. The bonds between people that last a lifetime, many lifetimes. The power of art to change a life, to change a million lives; the immortality of a work of art and the line of beauty that connects generation after generation of appreciators. How it feels to be always and ever in love with the wrong person—and how perfect and perfectly flawed she is, or he is, all the same. The way people age. The way people cling to each other at the wrongest of times, in the unlikeliest ways. The way people talk, my god, there is a Russian character (probably the best character in the book) who learned to speak English in Australia and you can really hear that fucking incomprehensible accent, the hitch of verbs mis-conjugated in just the right ways, the tossing out of slang words in four different languages, so casual and so perfectly apt. The way a life is made of recurrences, circlings back and back, openings out and out and out. What if one happens to be possessed of a heart that can't be trusted—? What if the heart, for its own unfathomable reasons, leads one willfully and in a cloud of unspeakable radiance away from health, domesticity, civic responsibility and strong social connections and all that blandly held common virtues and instead straight toward a beautiful flare of ruin, self-immolation, disaster? If your deepest self is singing and coaxing you straight toward the bonfire, is it better to run away? Ignore all the perverse glory your heart is screaming at you? Or is it better to throw yourself headfirst and laughing into the holy rage calling your name?Five stars, five hundred stars, five million. ALL THE GODDAMN STARS FOR DONNA TARTT FOREVER.
2819856223	Oh, to be walking in New York on a weekday morning...on your way to an overpriced diner breakfast...stopping in at the Met...seeing a gloriously well put together exhibit of Dutch art...staring at a painting that changes your life…maybe the museum explodes, who’s to say?What I wouldn’t give for that right about now.I won’t be picky about the explosion. Reading this was a strange experience for me, one because it’s about eighty-seven thousand pages long (or 800), and two because I read it approximately a month into the stay at home order, and so even things like “having a bad trip and being injured with your friend in Las Vegas, and also you’re like twelve years old” and “suffering immense grief, but while sharing bunk beds with your pal in a gorgeous New York townhouse apartment” gave an overall effect of wow...outside...going places...with people?Divine.Plus, 800 pages gives you a lot of time to feel a variety of feelings. (Very astute of me, I know.) For the first 250 pages, this was a five star read for me. For the last 50 pages, it was also 5 stars.So generally speaking, if you pulled a book of normal length out of this gargantuan tome, that regular-sized volume would have been a perfect read for me. (#Synonyms.)However, there were 500 other pages, and those fell somewhere around 3 stars. Still, I get how they were necessary, and all the same I could spend the rest of my life only reading Donna Tartt’s writing and be content, so 4 stars seems like a more than fair compromise on my end.As with The Secret History, this was an utterly immersive reading experience for me, but in some ways even more so. In The Secret History, I felt separate from the narrator - so while I felt myself present on his campus and in his friends’ fancy New England lodgings, I was able to make up my own mind about characters at any given time.Not so with this one!I felt like I was Theo. I understand why he did everything he did. I felt his anxious protectiveness over the painting. I felt his need for love and belonging. And more to the point, I felt about all the characters who made up his life as I imagine (or know) that he did.I pine for a simple life of art and love in a Village townhouse with Pippa and Hobie (and I feel panicked to provide for Hobie, to prove myself to him, and in so doing prove that his love isn’t conditional even though I fear that it is by never ever giving him a reason not to love me). I feel dread mixed with love when Boris appears. I feel willing to resign myself to a loveless life of fulfilled expectations because I want to make someone happy, and I know that I can make Mrs. Barbour happy. Above all, I have a longing for Audrey like Theo does. I spent her absence from this narrative desperate for her to appear again.You don’t find stories like this often.Bottom line: For better or worse, this is an everyone-should-read-in-a-lifetime book.---------------currently-reading updatesday 7 update:- i finished- i miss it already- also it's day 8review to come / 4 stars---------------day 6 update:- i'm back on board---------------day 5 update:- i am LOSING STEAM---------------day 4 update:- maybe like 75 pages?- i forgot to even post this update which should tell you my mindset for this book yesterday---------------day 3 update:- about 100 pages done today- oh god am i entering a reading slump- pray for me - tell my family and my books i love them---------------day 2 update:- okay only like 50 pages today- at that rate i'll finish this book in 2029- i want very badly to go to a museum with Theo and his mom, which feels a bit on the nose in terms of my self-destructive tendencies---------------day 1 update:- 228 pages in- made a family tree for fictional characters for the first time in my life just to keep track- am ready to cancel all my plans, quit my jobs, and evolve past sleeping in order to dedicate all my time to this book---------------tbr reviewme: i want to read a book every day!!also me: i want to read this book, which is so long that picking it up is the closest i've ever come to weightlifting
568071209	okay. so i read it. and i don't want to be all gloaty-gus for those of you who still have to wait three whole months to get your hands on a copy, but i will say, in brief, that it is worth waiting for. it is worth waiting three months for, as you knew it would be, but i don't know if i can wait another eleven years for another book. because she's still got it. it is beautifully written. it is everything you hoped it would be: characters as complicated and nuanced as real people. situations alternately lovely and bleak. story that tightens up as you are nearing the finish line, ripping you into two parts "must find out what happens," and "must read slowly or it will be over too soon."i read the synopsis of the book pretty much as soon as it was announced, and then carefully forgot what it said, because i didn't want to have anything in my head as i read it. i wanted a complete discovery.and the synopsis copy was very careful in what it revealed. so i am going to have to, for now, be as respectfully careful. and maybe i will come back closer to the release date and give more specifics, but i really just want to squee here and be enthusiastic and say: there is so much to like about this book!for example, there is something that is announced at the beginning of the book: one of the Very Big Things that happens in life. and the scene that culminates in this Very Big Thing is excruciating. in a good way. you know what is going to happen, but you don't know when, or how, and there is such delicious tension and you wait for that other shoe to drop, marveling both at her prose, and her ability to tease you during the whole of that opening chapter. wonderful.and then after that, there's another 700 pages of wonderful.quickies:boris is perfect and i love him. the "art underworld" mentioned is way cooler than what you probably usually think of when those words are mentioned. no bored sneers, asymmetrical haircuts and avant-garde attitude here!everything else i try to write, i just keep deleting. i can't. not yet. i meant to write a "proper" review of this, but everything keeps coming out too specific, too fraught with danger.just - continue to be excited about this one for now, because it is staggeringly good and i don't want to ruin it with any of my clumsy words just yet.......................................................................................................i have been promised an ARC of this.who wants to be my friend now???IT IS HEEEEEERE!!!! well, hello there, lovely... 771 pages of MINE! come to my blog!
769054807	This was a huge disappointment for me. The opening New York sections were excellent, the description of the museum bombing and the whole Mansfield Park thing Tartt has going with Theo and the Barbour family, all of this works beautifully. I was excited to keep on reading to see where it all ended up, but once things move to Las Vegas the story takes a seriously wrong turn. I seem to be a minority opinion here, but there you have it. I do remember sitting up all night in 1992 reading The Secret History. But this is something else...I have to wonder for whom Tartt thinks she's writing. Does she really imagine that intelligent adult readers are going to be enthralled with hundreds of pages detailing the antics of a pair of burned-out druggie teenagers who spend their time smoking weed, swilling vodka, and dining on packets of sugar and whatever junk food delicacies they can boost from the local supermarket? Well, perhaps they will, the book *is* on the NYT besteller list. But once all the hype and interviews die down...who knows? The comparisons to Dickens are particularly inappropriate. Dickens wrote about orphans and other unfortunates who are on the receiving end of undeserved bad luck, but his characters struggle *against* degradation and dissipation. Poor little Joe the crossing sweeper sleeps in Tom All Alone's because he has no other choice. But here Theo and Boris revel in their squalor and dissipation . (Boris is the kind of character who seems to exist only in books and movies: the burn-out loser druggie who is failing all his classes in school but is really a secret genius who reads Dostoevsky and Thoreau in his rare sober and lucid moments. Yeah...right. I've been to high school. Burn outs are burn outs).Nor is there any hint of Dickens' rollicking and life-affirming humor in the book. In fact there is no humor of any kind whatsoever (at least not as far as I read). Not a drop of wit. No one even cracks a halfway decent dirty joke.And then there is Theo's father, an inveterate gambler deep into the loan sharks, and his aging sexpot girlfriend Xandra...both potentially interesting characters, except they are presented in one-dimensional terms throughout their stay in the novel, and really exist for no other purpose than to end up the way they do (at least in the case of Theo's dad). Wasted opportunity. Too bad. I gave up halfway though the book. There is just such an incredible ugliness about all (or almost all) of the characters that I found I didn't care a damn what happened to them and certainly didn't want to spend any more time with them. The ironic part is that Tartt is an incredible writer, a master of descriptive prose, attentive to detail and able to create a truly believable world on the page. Too bad it's such a rotten world.
761004649	Audible. OH MY GAWD! Who ARE you people giving this 5 star raves? I'm not even half way yet and I'm wondering if I will be able to weather this ridiculously long book that keeps getting sidetracked by just about every teenage pothole you can think of. And can we talk about motherless orphans? I've lost track of how many motherless main characters are in this book. How can I be this far out of touch with other reviewers?------Halfway thru now. Spending lots of energy trying to be less harsh and trying to enjoy the ride tartt is taking me on. But I am not succeeding. This book is utter ridiculousness. Not believable at ALL. and this morning my friend informed me it was named Book of the Year. I'm speechless.---Three quarters done. Bottom line: Theo has become a very unlikeable guy. The pages and pages of minutia detail -- often building intrigue and suspense -- are pointless and often left unresolved. Reading this book reminds me of watching the tv show Lost. You think "MAN. I wonder how they are going to explain that polar bear!" Only to wait four more years and find out that they never do. ---Oh. My. Gosh. I just finished. The ending does not disappoint. What a diaphanous extravaganza of words. Of lists. Of never-ending stream of consciousness pompoonery. Yes. I made that word up. It's the merging of pompous and tom-foolery. Is Tartt serious? Can she really be seriously presenting up this book with a straight face? The ending is... Utterly astonishingly perfectly awful. If you are reading this and wondering if you should finish the book. Yes. Do it. Then report back here. I need the company. -----**Update on 4/1/14After 400+ comments to this review that was never meant for any purpose other than my own entertainment so that I might remember the book, I feel the need to add the following: To anyone wondering if they should still read this book, since reviewers are so divided (eg you either LOVE it or HATE it) : by all means, YES. Read it! But: if you find you are hating it within 100 pages, just put it down and walk away. Because it won't ever get better for you (Really. do as I say and not as I do: Put. It. Down.). For those who LOVE this book: Good for you! I am truly happy for you. There is nothing better than a book you love! ---Now move along, because the 9+ pages of comments here are for those who don't and will just make you mad. :)
762305949	The Goldfinch is a brilliant story with memorable characters and most of the book is incredibly well done and fun to read."Most" being the operative word.Tartt needed an editor to cut out a lot of the repetitive detail (Like several other reviewers, I too found myself page skimming -- sometimes the detail is fascinating, oftentimes it's unnecessary and just slows down the story.)There are a few other nits a good editor could have fixed, e.g. the internet makes cameo appearances but it's inconsistent - characters will make use of it in the way people do in 2013 but then later in the same scene they seem to forget it exists (and there's much more of the latter than the former-- Tartt recently did an interview with the New York Times where she admits to only using the web "to look up phone numbers" and her unfamiliarity is pretty evident, which is a problem in a novel whose main protagonists are 20somethings), a number of key plot points are telegraphed way in advance in a manner that feels more heavy-handed than than skillful, there are minor-but-critical unexplained plot points (e.g. why Theo's mother never considered leaving his father) whose omission seems curious in a novel that goes into such minute detail about everything else. And then of course there are the adult Theo's relationships with women, all of which seem overly chaste and prim and bloodless (especially compared to his relationship with Boris)-- even when he professes otherwise.There's a lot of Great Expectations in this novel-- I can't imagine it's coincidence that one of the main characters is called Pippa-- and Tartt frequently uses Dickens beloved device of the happy coincidence to move the plot forward. Usually Tartt makes the device work, but there are other times where the plot twists seem plucked from a forgettable TV movie of the week.The final chapter could also have used some heavier editing--" philosophizing" is a great way to end Theo's story, but the chapter just drags on forever, like a well meaning guest who won't stop saying goodbye.I gave it 4 stars because it's a really masterful story and the fairy tale quality makes it markedly different from so much of modern fiction. I just wish the editors would have had a heavier hand.
774344027	As I read the reviews I am fascinated by the fact that I agree with aspects of many of them, whether they rate the book one, two, three, or even four stars. Even the positive reviews point out the very many flaws. I suppose it all comes down to what you are willing to tolerate in a novel. I found Tartt's writing to be at times quite lovely, but I got the feeling she is a little too enamored with her own skill. I am surprised to see the novel described as "dense." It was very, very (unnecessarily, in my opinion) long, but it was the opposite of dense. More like bloated--with lots of pretty fluff. When Theo is making his (again, long and mysteriously uninterrupted) way out of the Met in the beginning, I knew right away I was in for a severely under-edited read, and suspension of disbelief of inordinate proportions would be called upon.I am not a reader who must like or identify with the main character, or even any of them, but I do require them to at least be interesting or representative of a larger idea in some way, if not, then I at least want to be able to root for them. Here, I found the characters unlikable (except for Hobie and Pippa, but they just fade in and out) and with no real emotional resonance. Theo's mourning for his mother in particular, felt vaguely like a lovesick teenager's rendition of grief in a creative writing class. His relationships with women are so shallow and unconvincing as to suggest that he is deeply closeted. But with his lecturing at the end (pursuing what your heart desires, etc), I would think he would come clean on this point if that were the case.Even the discussion of the eponymous painting is lacking. It's as if the author didn't bother to research the piece--does she not know that Google exists? All the muddled philosophizing at the end left me unimpressed. In the end it was, in the words of Bart Simpson, "just a bunch of stuff that happened." A long, mostly tedious read with very little (or no) payoff.If you are like me and finish a book you start no matter what, I would seriously give the reviews here a read before committing to it.
835520331	I, Boris, character in this book will give you honest opinion. Very honest. If you are reading this, asking yourself, should I read this book which is 771 pages? Very heavy, not that The Idiot was not 656 pages, so not length I am afraid of. If you are wondering, should I read? I answer for you already and say no! I am one of best things in book, at least not all the time moody, gloomy and so stupid I do not not even look in package. Even though I am very important character I must tell you, not worth your time to read this. (Okay to read beginning, some middle, end) but if was me, better to be having a pop than all the time reading about depressed guy who wastes so many good drugs. Bad things happen. All the time bad things. Does not mean cannot enjoy life. Does not mean should make many people spend very much money on depressing book. Not to say is not masterpiece to some people but why spend money on this misery. Cannot all own masterpiece. Potter think he is only one lose mother. In book we none of us have mother. Does not take 771 pages to figure this out. I would maybe read this if just 400 pages, as long as there would not be such long stretches without me. Potter needs me all the time. Not good without me. His one girl, Pippa, is smart not to let him make her into mother. If I was my good friend Theodore Decker and could not enjoy life at all I would do better job at killing self. Also honest opinion on how they say everyone is reading this book. If I tell you jump off cliff, you do it? Many times I drag Potter from middle of road where he claims to be waiting for car. Did I tell him lie in street? No. So I tell you. Only good thing can come from reading this book (maybe not even need to finish) is lots to talk about with people. Much discussion. Maybe if book from library or stolen worth it? But to buy own heavy copy? Could not even drop in canal without Dutch police all over you. Is better this way. "Trust me."
1198514203	Adult contemporary fiction. The Goldfinch was the book to read last year, so I didn't read it. Happily I corrected that over the last few weeks! It's the story of young Theo whose mother dies in a terrorist explosion at the Metropolitan Museum in New York. In the ensuing chaos, Theo escapes with his mother's favorite painting, The Goldfinch, a priceless Dutch masterpiece that becomes Theo's secret treasure and also the albatross around his neck. The story follows Theo into adulthood, through a series of tragedies and misadventures, until at last, he must face the music in regards to the missing painting. The novel is part coming-of-age story, part mystery, part rumination on the value of a human life versus the value of art. The writing is evocative yet accessible. The characters are wonderfully evoked. Tartt knows how to keep readers engaged with a compelling plot, yet the story is about much more than what happens to Theo and the painting. It's about loss and grief and loyalty. It's a remarkable read. I almost had to stop reading the book when Theo's ne'er-do-well father came on the scene because he was such an ass I wanted to strangle him, but later in the book, Tartt made even that character seem understandable, if not sympathetic. And Boris . . . what a creation! If nothing else, read this book to meet Boris.
2407829440	reading this book is the very definition of being ‘a labour of love.’ this story expects a lot from you. it requires attention, demands emotion, requests a sacrifice of time, asks for unconditional patience, and begs for your heart. but you keep turning the page, you keep coming back to theo and his story, because you know that your efforts, no matter how trying, will be worthwhile. and it isnt until that last paragraph, you know the one im talking about, the last sentence that just bleeds love and loneliness and beauty and sorrow, that you can close the book and finally say, ‘reading this may have been long, and not always easy, but i am all the better for it.’reading this book was a labour of love and, oh, how lovingly i laboured. ↠ 5 stars
2971093628	OMG! I took nearly fifteen days to finish this book. (I have to admit that I cheated on it with some sci-fi YA releases and thrillers) Of the reason is 775 pages long journey cut my enthusiasm but at least it wasn’t bored me, I never intended to put it on my dnf list because it was a fabulous Dickensian book, so lyrically, mind-captivating-ly, memorably written. I wish I had the all the time on the earth to full concentrate on this story. Normally reading is the way for me to lose myself in words and I always act like I cannot hear the people blaring to my ears to get my attention! But for this book, I cannot have a luxury to connect with the outer world. I have to grab this one, leave on a helicopter and land on a private island bringing three things with me this book, a case of Chardonnay and my husband’s leftover meatballs( thanks God, one of us can cook and that’s not me!) In three amazing days I could end this book, get drunk, eat decent meal and get an amazing tan. Well, I couldn’t achieve to realize this dream so I finished in 15 days and put more efforts to absorb each word because this book was like a chocolate lava cake for me, I never wanted to finish it and as I dig more I found more layers, new tastes to discover and enjoyed each second till it fully devoured!From the beginning my world rocked because MET is my sanctuary in NY. The bombing of one of the trade-marks of country is one of the effectively shocking ways of starting of a story. Theo Decker loses his mother at the attack and escapes from the explosion, unharmed, with a priceless painting named Goldfinch with him! Theo’s adventure continues at his new home as one of close friends of the family took him to Park Avenue apartment. Takes you to the journey to take a closer look to the Upper West high class elites and the elites with gambling addiction problem! Then you’re moving to Lower East Side drug circles, darkest dens and accidentally found yourself at Vegas suburbs. Then suddenly you open your eyes Amsterdam streets at Christmas. It was depressing, heart-wrenching, hardly absorbing, sad story because every one’s ways to face with the grief and their losses were different. Some people could hardly move on from one of the stages. Denial was the most dangerous stage which resulted with self-harm. Mostly the self-guilt took the rest of strength Theo mustered mostly and forced him to self-harm.What I mostly liked is the genuinely developed characterizations which had significant resemblances with Dickens characters. This book may consist of some references of Great Expectations and I felt like I read some kind of amazing tribute to Dickens’ visualization. Of course Boris was my favorite!I enjoyed it so much but I’m not so sure the adaptation of the story to the big screen will be any good. In my opinion WORDS ARE STRONGER THAN ACTIONS AND IMAGES. Your visualization is always going to be better than what stands in front of you. And some books are not for adaption. Just like this one. So I prefer to skip the movie and later I plan to read this book again to discover different tastes, brand new perspectives and fully enjoy them!
1862573466	Never have I gone into a book this blind and still felt like it wasn't what I expected...
1781712540	This was an exciting book and despite being nearly 900 pages long, was quite a page-turner. The characters were all drawn realistically and with all their flaws (with the possible exception of Hobie who was a lovable sweetheart!) The protagonist, Theo is also our narrator and is fairly reliable as he doesn't hold anything back - even his own many faults. The external narrative is on the fate of the painting The Goldfinch by Fabritius (about which we learn its own turbulent history and extreme genius throughout the narrative) following the explosion on page 34 and how this impacted Theo's life. The painting actually plays a very background position over most of the narrative and only comes centerstage again at the end of the book. Theo makes a lot of poor choices - unfortunately his father's sleazy girlfriend Xandra was right that he is far more like his father than he is willing to admit and yet in some of the best passages in the book, towards the end where Boris talks about Dosto's The Idiot:Maybe sometimes - the wrong way is the right way! You can take the wrong path and it still comes out where you want to be? Or, spin it another way, sometimes you can do everything wrong and it still turns out to be right.We know that despite Theo's tendency towards his dad, he is nonetheless a more genuine person and that Boris with all his external show of bravado - and of course his one big betrayal of Theo - he turns out to also to precisely the surprising but right thing in the end. It is to Tartt's credit that the book contained so much detail (and none of it boring or pedantic) about furniture, art, and literature (driving me crazy I cannot place the turning point scene in La Recherche between Swann and Odette that she refers to) which added a lot more depth and interest to the book. Personally, I think the length was fine - she had a lot of story to tell and did an excellent job telling.I love at the end also where Theo is traveling and tells us that one of the lessons he learned from Hobie was:...those images that strike the heart and set it blooming like a flower, images that open up some much, much larger beauty that you can spend your whole life looking for and never find.I found that to be a beautiful image and full of truth - like Plato's cave. Yet, another apt and thought-provoking insight from this rich and thought-provoking masterpiece. This was one time that the Pulitzer nailed it.On a side note, I made my own trek to the Mauritshuis museum in Den Haag years ago when reading Proust to see Vermeer's View of Delft and the Girl with the Pearl Earring but either the painting was traveling or I drifted right past it towards Rembrandt. Guess I need to return to the Hague!Her other two books were good, but this one was the best.I was in Den Haag at the wonderful Mauritshuis Museum and saw (again) the original Fabritius painting - absolutely stunning. Interesting tidbit: months after painting The Goldfinch, the artist and most of his work was blown up when the building his studio was in exploded.The film for this book is just coming out, hopefully, it will do the book some justice. And apparently, it was terrible. Oh well.On a second read, the book was just as awesome. Definitely one of my favorite books of the 2010s and the best Pulitzer winner of that decade!
746580133	Donna Tartt's latest novel has left this reader relatively unimpressed, especially considering the fact that she's author of The Secret History - a successful and popular novel which resulted in an entire generation of books which tried to be like it - and has reportedly spent 10 years writing The Goldfinch, which could very well be true, since she has written exactly three books in three decades. Understandably, her new novel became the object of much anticipation and when it was finally released it did so to rave reviews, with Stephen King calling it "an extraordinary work of fiction" and even the notoriously harsh Michiko Kakutani was charmed, and called the novel "dazzling". I confess to be genuinely puzzled by all the positive reviews, as the book that I've read overly long, very disjointed and overall surprisingly clumsy, considering the time it took to complete. This is a story which has all the potential of being great but is simply not told very well, and ultimately collapses under its own weight.Tartt begins The Goldfinch with what should have been a classic Hitchcock trick, but - thanks to the blurb which reveals it in advance - never even had a chance. Theo Decker - the main protagonist and narrator - is a 13 year old boy who is visiting New York's Metropolitan Art Museum with his mother, where they're viewing an exhibition of Renaissance Dutch art. Theo is charmed by a young girl who is visiting the museum with an elderly man, and wants to look at her a bit more, prompting his mother to go and take a look at her favorite paintings. Just after she disappears a bomb explodes, turning the museum and exhibition into rubble and dust. Theo miraculously survives, and notices that the elderly man he saw just minutes ago is dying - but manages to call Theo, and gives him his ring with an address. Theo sees him pointing at a painting which somehow has escaped unscathed, freed from its frame by the explosion, and understands that the man wants him to save it. The painting is a famous one - its Carel Fabritius's The Goldfinch, a favorite of his mother's. Theo decides to take it and leaves the museum, later learning that she was killed in the blast.Theo can't cope with the fact - he and his mother have been very close since his abusive father has left the family several years ago. Effectively orphaned and scared by the prospect of living with elderly and uncaring relatives which the social service agents want to impose on him, Theo manages to secure temporary residence with his friend Andy and his family - the Barbours. He suffers from survivor's guilt, blaming himself for his mother's tragic death and can't imagine having to live without her. Tartt takes her time to illustrate Theo's misery and slow recovery from grief as he lives with the Barbour family - a group stunted and odd in their own way. Until one day Theo's father unexpectedly shows up with his girlfriend, and takes Theo to live with them in their house in Las Vegas.This is the point where the novel loses its ground and never regains it. Theo's father - a gambler who walks on the thin rope hanging over the great ocean of casinos, filled with loan sharks - and his girlfriend, Xandra, who is not sure what to make of Theo. They're both interesting characters but remain woefully underused and undeveloped - there's a glimmer of a great plot involving Theo's father and his experiences with those who run the Casinos which is then literally and quite unceremoniously dropped, and remains unresolved for hundreds of pages - and when it finally is mentioned again you almost wish that it was forgotten altogether, since the way Tartt "solved" it is truly that lame. A total cop-out and a shame, as it essentially ended what could be a fascinating part of the book. Also, when did the setting stop being important? After being treated to minutiae descriptions of New York and its environs, Las Vegas is basically skimmed over - all we learn about it is the fact that it's in the middle of a desert and that its full of scorching sunlight.The adjective "Dickensian" gets used a lot in reviews of this book, but I don't think its deserved - unless a novel whose main character is an orphan somehow becomes "Dickensian" by association (to Tartt's credit she inserts a literal Old Curiosity Shop with a Kindly Older Guardian Figure into the book too). Since Theo can be seen as a contemporary Oliver Twist, here enters the charismatic character who will play his Artful Dodger - a Ukrainian teenager named Boris.Boris is the type of character which can only exist in fiction, and is a rather cartoonish composite of various stereotypes that Westerners have about Russians, Ukrainians and other Slavic people (at least his name isn't Ivan). Boris is a character who does not stay away from alcohol an drugs (of course), and has a rich father who unfortunately is also an abusive alcoholic (I think we've seen that before). Boris also deals with drugs and has connection to the underworld (I guess the usual poor black teenager drug dealers wouldn't be exotic enough), but in reality is a genius (when sober) who is able to converse in several languages, has seen half the planet (his homeland ranks the lowest - of course), and reads Dostoevsky and other ambitious literature in original in his spare time, when not drugged out of his mind. In the real world it simply does not happen - you'd be surprised to see how quickly irresponsibility combined with drugs can extinguish the brightest of fires. Boris's cartoonishness comes as a weird contrast to Theo, whom Tartt tried to portray realistically and convincingly.The antics of both Boris and Theo make me lose whatever sympathy I could have had for him - he was a whiny and uninteresting kid, but anyone would be a little shaken if their mom exploded. But neither he or Boris are Dickensian characters. Dickens wrote about orphaned children who struggled through life, but they struggled against the condition the world threw them into. Oliver Twist ends up with Fagin because he was swayed by the Artful Dodger, who himself knew no other life. Pip in Great Expectations strives to be a gentleman to impress Estella, whom he pursues. Contrary to that, both Theo and Boris openly embrace the squalor and disintegration, reveling in drug-fueled stupidity, antics and parties. There is no warm humor so familiar to anyone who has ever read a Dickens novel, and not even an shade of anything which could have passed for a portion of his wit.The novel then moves back to New York, and then across the seas to Amsterdam - in a sequence of events which would suggest that Tartt came up with a series of ideas for several novels and tried to connect them all into a great, big one, which didn't work out. There is even a love story here, but the love interest is nothing more but a prop used to make it happen - she's not fleshed out to be a real person, and is made to look like a forever unreachable mysterious pixie girl. The painting which Theo took from the museum - the Goldfinch - is forgotten for hundreds of pages until it is suddenly mentioned again, and what should have been a major issue in the book - will Theo ever get rid of it, and if he does - how? - gets "solved" in what has to be one of the most anticlimatic resolutions of contemporary literature. In her review Kakutani has admitted that Tartt's sequence of events are highly improbable, but wrote that startling coincidences and sudden reversals of fortune is just Tartt being adept at "harnessing all the conventions of the Dickensian novel". I call bullshit and say that this is just an excuse for lazy and incompetent plotting. A plethora of impossible coincidences shouldn't be so easily accepted - Dickens wrote his novel in installments for newspapers, prety much making the story up as he went on. Sometimes he ran himself into a corner an had to resort to an impropable chain of events - but then he had a week to publish the next chapter of his novel, while Tartt had ten years.The novel picks up the pace in the last third, which is the tightest and most frenetic part of the book...until it arrives at the conclusion, which is when I began to wonder if Tartt wrote it with a straight face and if the hundreds of pages were not a simple buildup to one giant prank. The ending of The Goldfinch is worthy of a hungover Paulo Coehlo phoning it in on a bad day, and contains the worst of pompous maudlinism disguised as revelation. It feels tacked-on as an afterthought, and makes the reader wonder if the character is consciously engaging in pseudo-intellectual posturing or is genuinely one of the biggest blockheads in contemporary literature.Ultimately, The Goldfinch is a disappointing book - especially considering the wait time and all the hype that surrounded it. I gave it an extra start for Donna Tartt's writing - she does have a talent for constructing nice sentences here and there - but it does not warrant the 800 pages that it is printed on. Like the saying goes - a picture paints a thousand words, but thousands of words couldn't paint this picture.
1561423850	Donna Tartt is one of America’s greatest living male writers. She has taken a form of novel - the doorstopper, the tome, the phonebook - and taken something away from it that is has often never been without: the penis. In this ritual castration of the ‘opus’ Tartt has managed to completely free it from all its ills. DeLillo, Franzen, Foster Wallace, Pynchon, Mailer, all kneel there, bloodied and shorn like Goya etchings, John Bobbitts by any other name, weak and utterly defeated. Whilst Donna, looking like what Timothée Chalamet will eventually become, stands defiant, a bouquet of dicks in hand, laughing.Carel Fabritius’ 1654 trompe-l’œil The Goldfinch is an odd little painting. Fabritius only uses about 40% of the canvas for his painting of the little bird. The rest is a sea of nothing, but it’s enjoyable nothing. Donna Tartt’s 2013 novel The Goldfinch is an odd little book. Tartt only uses about 40% of the novel for the plot and its development. The rest is a sea of nothing, but it’s enjoyable nothing.People gushed over this book when it came out. Absolutely soiled themselves. I scarcely recall any other book in the five years since The Goldfinch came out that has had anywhere near the same amount of complete domination. I mean, it was all, of course, deserved. No other writer has written anything like this since, nor has anyone even tried. It must have been like when Michelangelo did the Pietà and every other artist in Renaissance-era Italy was like ‘well fuck me right!? fuck MY still lives’.I didn’t read it at the time. I was still disillusioned by how much I did not enjoy The Secret History. I know, I know, I didn’t like The Secret History. I think it was because I actually saw too much of myself in the characters, and they’re all detestable. A similar thing happened with Eugenides’ The Marriage Plot, a fucking awful novel full of characters just like me. People often complain about never seeing themselves in books, my problem is I can’t seem to escape myself.And I found myself again in The Goldfinch. In Theo. This time it didn’t cause me to throw the book across the room however. I mean, Theo is insufferable. Everything about him just reeks, really. But god is he loveable. The broken male teen. Holden Caulfield wishes. Then there’s also Hobie. Ah Hobie. Sweet, clueless Hobie. I will do everything in my power to protect you.Plot-wise we’re a bit fast and loose here aren’t we? That Vegas bit went on didn’t it? And the entire second-half? Whew. Michi Kakutani was jumping over herself with the Dickens comparisons in the NYT. But you really couldn’t be farther from Dickens. The thing with Dickens was it was all plot. You could never say nothing happens in Dickens, if anything too many things happen. Also she compares Theo to Pip when he’s clearly David Copperfield. I’m glad she retired. Anyway this is meant to be a review of The Goldfinch isn’t it? Eh, yeah, it’s great. I really loved it. Patchy. But great. Some bits needed polishing. But great. Couple characters could’ve been cut. But great. The whole marriage thing? But great. Also I’ve decided to give The Secret History another go. I feel the problem is me. Not the book. But The Little Friend can eat my entire ass.
830514210	Whaaaaat? Am I reading a different book from all of you people giving this five stars? I am halfway through this pretentious, nonsensical, self-indulgent, ridiculous THING, and I'm only forcing myself to finish because I paid $40 for this monstrosity. It is unconvincing on so many levels. Theo Decker does not ring true. He doesn't SOUND like a boy, for a start, and I'm hard-pressed to believe a thirteen-year old reads and understands the likes of Chekov, Thoreau and Emmerson. And why doesn't Theo have a cellphone? Tartt seems reluctant to accept that her book is set in the 21st century- even the laptop is locked away in his Dad's bedroom so emails are sparse- so why not set it in 1962 or somewhere more plausible? And Boris- what a ridiculous, implausible character: a polyglot who has lived all around the world in his fifteen years, had dazzling adventures, survived regular beatings from his equally unlikely father, spends a good part of his life starving and/or drunk, and has found time to read Chekov in Russian. His Soviet-flavoured lectures on the virtues of stealing only from faceless corporations make him sound like he's fifty. Every other character I've encountered so far is as flat as the paper its printed on. Mrs Barbour: aloof, icy Society Matron. Theo's dad: Bad Parent,only cares about money. Xandra (With an X, which takes about 200 words to explain):Trailer-Park Whore with a wee soft spot for furry animals.The Latino Doormen: Latino Doormen. Hobie: Dumbledore.The plot limps along. After the initial set-up (Mum dies in a bomb blast at an art museum and Theo washes up an almost-orphan, which takes forever), things just slope along with no real tension, mystery or sense of purpose to drive you from one page to the next. And EVERYTHING- each object, setting, conversation, item of clothing, facial feature, crack in the sidewalk, cloud in the sky,item of furniture,swirl of vomit in the toilet bowl - EVERYTHING thing is described in minute and tedious detail, irrespective of its relevance to anything at bloody all. I skipped whole pages I could see were going nowhere. Boris and Theo get drunk again and have a fight? Woohoo! Boris gets the bash from his dad? So what- nothing happens as a consequence, and the boys carry on like two washed up old tramps from a Beckett play - oh, but pardon me for dropping in a pretentious and pointless literary allusion to a text read by no thirteen-year-ever.Or to every orphan story every written- Harry Potter, Great Expectations, Huck Finn (who Boris is supposed to be I suppose). It's probably meant to be terribly clever but just seems obvious.And another thing. Dialogue is peppered with question marks at the end of sentences which aren't questions. I suppose it's to indicate an upward vocal inflection? Like how teens speak? It's silly and irritating. Sigh. I suppose there is some symbolic MEANING to the painting of the goldfinch and I suppose the girl with the red hair will reappear sometime to break Theo's heart (if he's not gay, which it sort of sounds like he is)- but there is no urgency, no ticking clock, nothing to make me care one way or another. 300 pages to go. Wish me luck.*UPDATE*I finished it. Tempted to increase the rating to two stars because it does improve a little halfway through- at least the plot picks up. There is a PROBLEM all of a sudden (the missing element in the first half), which makes things a little interesting, if no more believable. I was right about the girl (so too predictable) and almost right about the other thing. But (Spoiler Alert)- how is it remotely possible that Theo would not have heard of the death of Andy and (silly name) Chase? Did he not read a paper or watch the news for eight years? They were New York Society, so their sudden demise would hardly go unremarked. And Boris's reappearance is just too coincidental. And the relationship issue: again, not at all believable. Surely Kitsey /Cutesy can make up her own mind about a man and not choose one just to please Mummy, especially knowing he is a total stoner. The endless drug-taking is really tedious too. But back to the Problem; here's the problem with the Problem. The solution to the Problem is so simple, so easy, so obvious and so anti-climactic that it should have occurred to everyone two hundred pages earlier and saved me several hours of my life I'll never get back. And the ending- oh spare me- fifty-something pages that go on, and on, and on about Beauty and Art and Meaning. Which is all very noble and true I guess but so many others have said the same thing so much better, in fewer words. Still one star.
1267692151	"—if a painting really works down in your heart and changes the way you see, and think, and feel, you don’t think, ‘oh, I love this picture because it’s universal.’ ‘I love this painting because it speaks to all mankind.’ That’s not the reason anyone loves a piece of art. It’s a secret whisper from an alleyway. Psst, you. Hey kid. Yes you."Finally!! This book! I put off reading Donna Tartt for far too long. This book in particular was on and off my list for quite some time. I can’t say why really. Call me capricious, I guess. Then in November 2019, I read The Secret History and kicked myself for not having read Tartt sooner. On finishing that superb work of literature, I knew I’d pick this one up at long last. For once my dawdling paid off though. I couldn’t have picked a more perfect time to read this most excellent novel!Last week, I was supposed to be in New York City for the first time in ages, having last been there on a field trip with a bunch of fellow teens. This was a vacation I was so highly anticipating. There would be trips to the theater, the Met, and Central Park. I was going to stuff myself with as much ethnic cuisine as I could possibly handle without making myself sick. AND… I would be visiting the Strand Book Store for the very first time!! Well, as they say, the best-laid plans… How very sorry I was to have to cancel this trip; how even more heartsick I was to hear of the devastation in that vibrant city as the result of something virtually invisible yet so deadly as this damn virus that has shut down the entire world. One consolation until this evil is eradicated – The Goldfinch. It was a life saver for me, as books so often are. Plus, I got to indirectly spend a good chunk of time in NYC immersed in these pages.There are plenty of other fabulous reviews out there if you are interested in gleaning a bit more about the plot. I’m just going to say that this book has it all, really. First and foremost, the prose is exceptional. I’m all about the writing these days. Secondly, these are wholly believable characters, full of imperfections just like real people. Even when I didn’t agree with many of their actions, I never felt that Tartt was asking us to judge them. I never felt the need to judge them; I rooted for them no matter those flaws. I can see where Theo Decker might be a bit of a turnoff to some readers. For me, however, there was something about him that just crushed me and drew me to him. I guess you could say, I understood him, despite our superficial differences. There was something at the core of him that gnawed away at my heart. "I’d felt drowned and extinguished by vastness—not just the predictable vastness of time, and space, but the impassable distances between people even when they were within arm’s reach of each other, and with a swell of vertigo I thought of all the places I’d been and all the places I hadn’t, a world lost and vast and unknowable, dingy maze of cities and alleyways, far-drifting ash and hostile immensities, connections missed, things lost and never found…"And then there was Theo’s best friend, Boris. This guy! Sometimes I wanted Theo to get as far away as possible from him and other times I was wishing him right back with us. Mostly, he made me smile. Wise Hobie and the lovely Pippa definitely won me over. The settings are brilliantly illustrated – from the vitality of New York City to the dust and depravity of Las Vegas to the charm of Amsterdam. Of course, there is a cleverly plotted storyline that made this another step up from just your everyday ‘good’ book. Despite its length coming in at over 775 pages, I was captivated in its entirety. There’s too much to say about this masterpiece - more things I could say about the meaning of art, about the choices we make, about love and death. About life. I was completely consumed by the ending pages. I couldn’t help but think of this novel in terms of our current situation. For this reason, I believe it will forever hold an extra special place in my heart. I have one more full-length Tartt novel to delight in. It will take a lot of willpower not to rush to it right away! The Goldfinch is headed to my favorites shelf."That life—whatever else it is—is short. That fate is cruel but maybe not random. That Nature (meaning Death) always wins but that doesn’t mean we have to bow and grovel to it. That maybe even if we’re not always so glad to be here, it’s our task to immerse ourselves anyway: wade straight through it, right through the cesspool, while keeping eyes and hearts open. And in the midst of our dying, as we rise from the organic and sink back ignominiously into the organic, it is a glory and a privilege to love what Death doesn’t touch."
568078680	Winner of the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. Congratulations, Ms. Tartt on such a stunning return. The Goldfinch is a doorstopper, weighing in at over 700 densely written pages. Yet, I found myself tearing through it as if I couldn't read it fast enough. I don't know what the secret is to Ms. Tartt's prose, but I dig it. I dig it a lot. Maybe it's due to sheer deprivation (absence making the heart grow fonder and all that jazz), because this lady, while her talent goes undisputed, has only managed to pen three novels in three decades -- the very antithesis of James Patterson (whom I wish would just go away -- how many trees have to die for you, Jim? HOW MANY?) I can be a real sucker for a sense of place. Tartt writes New York in such a way that I was able to feel the thrum of traffic and smell the bakeries (and the sewers). Taxis, doormen, park benches, museums, lunch counters -- all swirling together in a portrait that's as carefully rendered as any artist's painting. When she transplants readers to the parched and desolate Las Vegas suburbs, I became just as enthralled by the startling contrast between bustling city and dry desert. There's really not much to say here other than I became totally immersed in this book while I was reading it. It's a character-driven piece in the sense that it's without an intricate plot, or Big Reveals. But oh, what characters! All the feels! It was just such a heartening experience to get to know them all and watch them hurl through life together, for better and for worse. It's the characters from which we draw the tension and the pace of the story and it's all so deftly handled by Ms. Tartt that I'm actually left floundering for ways to adequately describe it. So I won't. Let her take you on this journey and I'll get the hell out of the way.
3890828573	Se îmbracă băiețește. Are o voce de fetiță, fără tonuri grave, gen Kyle Minogue. E subțirică, mignonă, transparentă, imponderabilă. Te privește cu un chip angelic, ermetic, androgin.Părul tăiat scurt, împărțit în două de o cărare pe dreapta. Ochi căprui, „de culoarea mierii”, precizează o gazetă franțuzească. Ten palid de călugăriță (tot de acolo). În interviuri a fost foarte discretă cu viața personală. Nu știm dacă se plimbă pe bicicletă. Știm, în schimb, că scrie numai de mînă cu cerneluri de culori diferite, pe hîrtie de culori diferite. Nu folosește laptopul. J. K. Rowling avea un public de copii de gimnaziu. Donna Tartt i-a cucerit pe urmașii lor, adolescenții cu probleme mari, insolubile. Publicul ei se situează undeva în jurul vîrstei de 18-21 de ani. De la J. K. Rowling la Donna Tartt trecerea a fost lină, firească, într-un cuvînt: necesară. În 2013, cînd s-a publicat Sticletele (al treilea ei roman), lansările s-au urmat una după alta, într-o succesiune de evenimente atent regizată. A fost o sărbătoare continuă. Un triumf. O baie de mulțime. Mai întîi, s-a lansat traducerea olandeză (pe la începutul lui octombrie), apoi a venit originalul englezesc (pe 22 octombrie), apoi traducerea suedeză (către sfîrșitul lunii).Recenziile, în unanimitate, au consemnat entuziasmul specialiștilor. Într-o cronică din The New York Times, venerabila Michiko Kakutani (Pulitzer Prize 1998) a epuizat dintr-o singură mișcare, pe cîteva coloane de elogii, toate epitelele pozitive ale limbii engleze. Sticletele reprezintă „a Dickensian novel”, o capodoperă, o poveste genială. Alții au arătat că Donna Tartt este nu numai un mare scriitor, un incomparabil prozator, dar și „un gigant al literaturii contemporane” („a slow-burn literary giant”). În cîteva săptămîni, cartea s-a vîndut într-un milion și jumătate de exemplare (pe hîrtie sau în PDF). A fost tradusă în 32 de limbi.În 2014, Donna Tartt primește, pentru The Goldfinch, premiul Pulitzer. Devine astfel, la distanță de 16 ani, urmașa lui Philip Roth, care primise premiul pentru Pastorala americană (un roman ceva mai scurt, totuși). Gloriile se succedă: Times o include în lista femeilor celor mai influente din univers. Este fără îndoială un fenomen. Sticletele are de toate: un copil de 13 ani (Theodore „Theo" Decker) care își pierde mama într-un atentat terorist, pe cînd vizitau Metropolitan Museum of Art. Un tată dipsoman, care își risipește banii la jocuri de noroc, în Las Vegas, și moare într-un accident de mașină. O prietenie cu un băiat, Boris, ai cărui părinți au emigrat tocmai din Ucraina. Droguri. Un protector sub figura unui bătrîn anticar înțelept (James „Hobie" Hobart). Un salt în timp de 8 ani. O afacere cu falsuri pentru a-l salva de la faliment pe bunul Hobie. Dificultăți legate de tabloul pe care îl sustrăsese după explozie din muzeul în care se afla cu mama lui (e vorba chiar de „Goldfinch”). Traficanți veroși de opere de artă. Împușcături în noapte. O iubire neîmplinită pentru o fată (Pippa) care ezită să-și dăruiască inima unui ins dubios ca Theo, consumator îndîrjit de droguri. Revenirea tabloului lui Carel Fabritius în Muzeul de origine. Meditații despre sensul vieții și al morții... Nu-mi rămîne decît să citez cîteva fraze și să vă las să meditați asupra lor:● „Mama căzu peste mine şi mă apucă de braţ; am simţit-o jilavă şi palidă ca un peşte de baltă”. ● „[mama] avea înfăţişarea uşor şifonată a unei păsări marine abătute din drum de curenţi”.● „[tot mama] radia o lumină fermecată, ca de teatru, încît a vedea lucrurile prin ochii ei însemna a le vedea în culori mai vii decât în mod normal”.● „Ea păru surprinsă, ca şi cum ar fi uitat că mă aflam acolo. Haina albă, fluturând în vânt, îi sublinia silueta de ibis cu picioare lungi, parcă gata să-şi desfacă aripile şi să se ridice plutind deasupra parcului”.● Am păstrat pentru final acest glonte filosofic optimist și-l îndrept spre capetele voastre, dragi cititori: „Fate is cruel but maybe not random. Nature (meaning Death) always wins, but that doesn’t mean we have to bow and gravel to it”.P. S. N-ar fi OK să mă fac că nu am auzit de criticii (îndeosebi din UK) care au sesizat în Sticletele o colecție de clișee și de întorsături neverosimile...
2176938711	So, I did it! I read all 864 pages of this book! And it was so dark!At times I needed to take a break, because it was just so heavy (both physically and metaphorically) some of the themes and thoughts the main character had were so awful, I was feeling depressed just to read it! “Even the sidewalk felt like it might break under my feet and I might drop through Fifty-Seventh Street into some pit where I never stopped falling.” Not that it was all bad, there was plenty that wasn’t as dark. But the overriding themes were just so tough. Theo’s Mum dies in a bomb explosion in the museum in New York, so he is forced to move to Las Vegas and live with his dad, a recovering alcoholic with a now severe gambling addiction. Theo’s time here, though only 15 years old is rife with alcohol and more drugs than you’ve ever seen! He and his best friend Boris were seriously messed up. Theo has been carrying with him a painting stolen from the museum where his mum died. The Goldfinch, worth so much it is actually priceless, given to him by a dying man. When Theo returns to New York he stays with the old partner of the dying man, Hobie, in the antiques shop they ran together. Theo and Hobie run the business together, all the while Theo still has The Goldfinch hidden. No one knows he has it - or do they?This is an epic tale spanning decades of Theo’s life, it covers so much ground, but I finished it not feeling overly satisfied and there were times I was really pushing myself through. Glad I’ve read it, but I definitely need something lighter now as this book was not great for my mental state. “None of us ever find enough kindness in the world, do we?”
1074418769	Only a reader not familiar with Dickens, especially "Great Expectations," will find the book amusing, even good.But while the conventions are indeed laudable, I cannot help but find the ultra-cool character of Boris (an avatar of Dickens' Fagan); the tale of two cities revamped into a dull threesome of perhaps the three most exciting cities--NYC, Vegas, Amsterdam; the teenage dawdling akin to Oliver Twist's-- they are, ultimately, safe & unoriginal. Where's the innovation, 2014's Oracle? This is a marble cake novel (the parts are extremely long, but, yes, contrasting enough to be, well, readable), & something a tad... unspecial. In the grand recipe of Pulitzer recipients, the paint-it-by-numbers kind, it doesn't take a genius to understand that key ingredients MUST exist in the beloved monster. Take incidents of terrorism ("American Pastoral"), incidents with goons of the underworld (alas, not "Goon Squad", but most definitely "Humboldt's Gift") & an overlong, overcooked, just preposterous ending ("Rabbit at Rest")--meditations on art, life, etc. etc. Gag. Gag. Gag.To keep it concise (a mercy sadly not granted to the reader of the latest Donna Tartt): It's a must to the Canon-&-Literary-Prize aficionado, and will be lauded as "great." But know, dear reader, that all the hype remains bafflingly undeserved.
859370217	I’m told that mine is the deciding vote to establish this book’s place in history: masterpiece or meh. Well, I’ve given myself a week to think about it, and the fact that I did think about it skews it to the positive. But then the equivocator in me recognizes that controversial books often have strong pluses and minuses to consider. Here are the factors as I see them.A compelling plot. Plenty happens to make this more than just navel fixation. Thirteen-year-old New York City kid, Theo, had one good parent (a mom who genuinely cared for him) and one bad one (a booze hound who had abandoned them). Then, soon after Theo’s mom described what was special to her about the goldfinch painting they were looking at, a bomb went off in the museum and he lost his good one. Dazed, and before he learned of his mother’s fate, he heard the dying wishes of an antique dealer who had been there with his niece Pippa. Theo’s original optimism that he and his mom would soon be reunited gave way to the agonizing truth, and he had to scramble to avoid foster care. He ended up in the posh digs of a nerdy friend from school who had been a co-target of bullying earlier when they both skipped a grade. Theo was still reeling from his loss, but did manage to deliver an heirloom to the shop where the antique dealer had told him to go. There he met one of the kindest characters in all of litdom, a much needed ally named Hobie, along with Pippa who was recovering from the museum trauma. My rule in reviews is not to reveal more about the plot than what the inside flap does, so the only thing I’ll add is that Theo soon finds himself on the outskirts of Las Vegas, the object of indifferent (at best) child care, but able to survive when he teams up with a fellow hard luck case named Boris who could swear in multiple Eastern European languages and was wise to the ways of the world. Like any pulsating storyline, this one keeps the pages turning. (+)As bleak as any house Dickens could conjure. I googled “Tartt Goldfinch Dickensian” and came up with 62,300 hits. So yes, people have noticed the hardship. In and of itself, the gloom could be a (+) or a (-), but it tipped negative for me when the conflict, at times, felt contrived. And it was relentless. I was hoping the law of averages would give poor Theo a break every once in a while. To be fair I should mention that my misery tolerance may be compromised by the weather we’ve been having. (-) Poor decisions. The problem for me was not in Theo’s choices per se, but how inconsistent they sometimes seemed given his intellect, character and street smarts. At the same time, I have to remember how young he was when made many of them, and how leery a virtual orphan is apt to be to trust anyone in a position to help. (+/-) Resonating themes. Beauty, love, good vs. evil – as a big sprawling book, this one took its time and developed its notions well. I give extra credit, too, for the natural way philosophical conversations grew out of the story. When Hobie opined about what constitutes beauty and what its role is in our lives, his thoughts are backed by the long hours he spent restoring antique furniture. And when Boris talks about situational ethics, it’s with an insightful and accessible perspective from his own sordid past and from all the Dostoevsky he’s read. There were even moments of profundity that no doubt earn it literary plaudits. (+)Art appreciation. The Fabritius painting titled the same as the book is, not surprisingly, central to the story. It was analyzed and praised, its history was explained in detail, and Theo, as he narrated, recognized it as a metaphor, citing the small bird’s bravery to keep plugging away despite being chained to his perch. In fact, throughout the book there is a heightened artistic sensitivity. Theo went into the antiques business with a good eye for aesthetics. He also learned more than he might have liked about the art underworld. (+)Emotional honesty. Theo had issues, but he came by them in a plausible and understandable way. I felt way more empathy than antipathy for him. One of the harder things he had to deal with was a rather nasty pill habit. Given his heredity, his influences (primarily Boris) and the harshness of his early life, we don’t judge so much as relate. The book was also credible about the feelings Theo had for Pippa, whom he had idealized from a young age. (+)How many more pages anyway? It is long. And dense, too. That said, I was not so much bored as just ready to move on. Other books I got for Christmas were burning holes through the shelf. (-)Damn good writing. I guess in a way I’ve buried the lead: Donna Tartt writes really well. I heard she took a full decade to put this together, and it shows. The prose is crisp and refined; the research was first-rate; and her characters, even the minor ones, are nuanced and memorable. As a very small quibble, I sometimes felt like she would choose a slightly wrong word for a male narrator to use, but that was an increasingly rare feeling the more she drew me in to the story. The descriptions were the kind you wonder, thinking back, how such sharp pictures are etched in your mind when you never noticed any long passages that would have given them to you. I got that feeling several times, most noticeably when she described the antique shop where Hobie lived, the shell of a home in suburban Vegas, and the otherworldliness of Amsterdam (or at least of its underbelly). (+)Weighing the pluses and minuses puts this at a solid 4 stars for me. Despite wishing I could have finished it faster, the characters and great writing are likely to be the memories that last.
2933859975	نحن لا نحبُّ الفن العظيم بسبب قيمته التاريخية، وليس لأنه موجود في المتحف الفلاني، أو حصل على جائزة مهمة، ولا بسبب مراجعات النقاد. "ما يحدثُ، بحسب الرواية، هو شيءٌ يشبه الهمس السريّ في أذنك؛ "بسسست.. أنت هناك، نعم أنت، تعال".في لحظة تجد نفسك في مستوى فوق واقعي، متّصل بالعالم، وممتن للتجربة رغم ألمها، لأنها أعادت ولادتك. أعتقد بأن ما يحدث، عبر الاتصال العميق بالفن، هو أن الأضداد تتعادل على نحوٍ ما، تصل معها إلى هدنة؛ القبح والجمال، الخير والشّر.. إن إطلاق الأحكام نزعة بشرية جدًا، لكن بحسب "الرومي".. ثمة "حقل يقبع فيما وراء الخطأ والصواب"، وهو المكان الذي ينتظرنا فيه الشعر.رافقتني هذه الرواية في أيامٍ شديدة القسوةوكانت تطبطبُ عليَّ مليًا. جديرة بكل ساعة استرقتني في قراءتها.
3146555091	Winner Pulitzer Prize for Fiction 2014. Winner Amazon best book of year 2013. Winner Andrew Carnegie Medal 2014. This critically acclaimed third masterwork from Tartt is vast enough in scope to be considered a saga in my opinion, looking at human suffering, struggle, loss and destiny, and very beautifully... the power of both, art and human bonding. Yet another great work with near perfect prose, style and tone. And as for the opening scene, it's one you'll never forget - it will blow your mind! Tartt seems unable to do any wrong when, or however she puts ink on paper! 9 out 12. and that's being extremely conservative.The momentous event at the start of this read, forever changed the life of Theo Decker at aged 13, and this masterclass tells his story as a directionless and essentially traumatised boy growing up in New York with a substitute family of sorts and how a painting 'The Goldfinch' plays a leading role in his early and young adult life. The genius, in my opinion, of this work has two main points; (1.) this is a read with a number of brain shattering all-consuming highs that are integral to the book making it un-put-downable... yet somehow there are equally as many subtle low-level reveals or supposedly minor incidents that are just as momentous and also make the book un-put-downable! (2.) on not one single occasion was I able to guess what was going to happen next, it was so refreshing to read a seemingly truly original story where the story had a life of it's own, so unpredictable yet so real, at at times unsettling.[image error]This was also my first ever 'book club' read... what a fabulous entry into the world of book clubs for me!2015 read
3630109888	While Donna Tartt and I have different literary philosophies, I have mad respect for her.The Goldfinch highlights Tartt’s strengths. Tartt is a literary craftsperson—literature is clearly her calling, and her writing reflects her dedication to the craft. She has an exquisite vocabulary, provides plenty of literary Easter eggs, and she is an expert in hidden language devices.“For years, I’d turned these strangers over in my mind.” Pg. 29. This line was inspired by The Great Gatsby which was inspired by War and Peace.However, The Goldfinch is so focused on literary techniques and flourishes that it loses sight of the big picture, pacing and plot. The text gets bogged down with too many similes and sideshows.The beginning of The Goldfinch is so slow that it reminded me to the beginning of The Lord of the Rings where it takes Frodo over 100 pages just to leave The Shire! And the ending of The Goldfinch is a cataclysmic catastrophe. Donna Tartt is capable of so much more, and she should have rewritten it. All of the chapters are relatively short until the end—BAM!—there is one gigantic chapter. Hobie has a giant philosophical monologue at the end. Then, Theo starts in on all of his philosophies. This is just as boring as the ending in War and Peace where there is three hours of philosophical ranting at the end. These annoying musings were essentially force-fed to readers and contributed to the lackluster, unmemorable ending.Additionally, the romance between Theo and Pippa was handled poorly, and while the narrative voice is compelling, it was overdone.My literary teacher, F. Scott Fitzgerald, said that an author should focus on how the reader feels. Do you know how I felt reading The Goldfinch? Depressed.Although I appreciate Tartt’s skill, The Goldfinch needed a better editor.The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent):Hardcover Text – $25.00 on eBayAudiobook – Free through LibbyConnect With Me!Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango
3449046632	a masterpiece! dare i say even better on a reread. my reading taste has evolved a lot since i first read this, so i had an even deeper appreciation for it the second time.
838483335	The best book I've read in the past year and a half. Hell, maybe the best book I've ever read. I use the term 'read' but what I really mean is 'heard' as I listened to this tale via an Audible recording. It's a spectacular reading of a spellbinding book. Everyone should experience this.Ok, enough of the superlatives. As you will probably have gleaned from other reviews, this is the story of one boy growing up in New York who experiences a life changing event (I'll say no more). His life is then tracked forward until the whole tale is exposed. And what a tale it is!The characters in this novel are expertly described and brilliantly brought to life. Best of all is Boris... just superb. I'm missing him badly.If you've never tried audio books I'd recommend you start here, with this book. The reader, David Pittu, was reportedly hand picked by the author and if true she made the perfect choice. He achieves a range of accents and tones to bring each participant alive and expertly evokes every emotion required.I've subsequently embarked on a desperate mission to find something of a similar quality - sadly, with no success to date!
749464487	And my final reading disaster of the year…This is a veritable tome comprising 771 pages. The book looked the part. The story appeared to be very interesting about Theo Decker, who has loved and lost, who enters the criminal underworld, an individual who finally makes a marvellous discovery in life and then, of course, there is his talisman, the painting of “The Goldfinch". I also love Goldfinches and often photograph them in the garden if I can be in the right place with the camera at the right time.It’s a beautifully published book and I also was taken with the additional touch of the photo of “The Goldfinch” which is loosely tacked onto the frontispiece. The glowing reviews assured me that it was a 2013 literary masterpiece. It’s very well written too. So where did it all go wrong, well for me anyway?Perhaps the contradictory comment by Albert Camus before Chapter one says it all?The absurd does not liberate; it binds.I felt oddly cynical about the first sentence of the book as similar words are so often used at the beginning in novels:While I was still in Amsterdam, I dreamed about my mother for the first time in years.I automatically thought about “Rebecca” for some obscure reason.It’s sad hearing about Theo losing his mother in tragic circumstances and to think that he admits after so many years he’s never met anyone who made him feel loved in the way she did. I always like reading about New York but still I couldn’t get into the story. I don’t know why and then I started to skim read looking for that magical literary work I was sure was there. But it wasn’t there. Individuals such as Goldie, Boris and Xandra floated by…as if in a dream.There were some magical sections such as the following, and the referrals to love, but still not enough to entice me:And as much as I’d like to believe there’s truth beyond illusion, I’ve come to believe that there’s no truth beyond illusion. Because, between ‘reality’ on the one hand, and the point where the mind strikes reality, there’s a middle zone, a rainbow edge where beauty comes into being, where two different surfaces mingle and blur to provide what life does not: and this is the space where all art exists, and all magic.I have such a sense of regret here. Perhaps this book is not right for me at this period in time. Perhaps personal reasons have subconsciously entered into the equation.I will place it next to my beloved “The Alexandria Quartet” on the bookshelf to remind me of it and I may read it in the future.
683643611	There are so many beautiful, perfect sentences in this book, my heart hurts.Donna Tartt knows a lot about so many things: art, furniture, grief, pills, Maltese dogs, Amsterdam, New York, the outskirts of Vegas, rich WASPS in New York. Damn, girl, you are a BRAIN.The middle of this book dragged for me unexpectedly, but I am going to blame the stomach flu I got slammed with, and not this novel, which is otherwise engrossing and moving. The first 300 pages swallowed my whole life, and the ending was beautiful and profound.
763045750	An ardent disliker of The Secret History I was intrigued by the reviews of Tartt's third novel and decided to try again. "Dickensian," said NPR, "Dickensian," said the New York Times, as if two orphans and an olde curiosity shoppe plus swarthier ne'er-do-well orphan who appears in 2nd book/act, reappears in 4th book/act equals Dickens. Like calling that baton you buy in the grocery store a baguette. While it has certainly been a page turner there are still so many things that are irksome.1. The 13 year-old Theo Decker has the emotional maturity of an 8 or 9 year old. Same goes for his friend Andy van der Woodsen, I mean Barbour. For two upper East Side private school boys they seem shockingly stunted. And, my god, don't they have internet up there? Who uses the phone book? How did that child ever get into MIT?2. Both Pippa (Pip, Middleton, what have you)and Kitsey Barbour are the bifurcated versions of Camilla Macauley (see Tartt, Secret History): same trailer, different park. 3. The grown-up version of Theo is too much like the first-season Gossip Girl Dan Humphrey. Part Greenwich Village Idiot, part inside-outsider with his nose pressed up against the glass. 4. What's with all of the 6'5" literary guardian angels whose names start with H: Hagrid, Hodor, and now Hobie. 5. By the end of the novel, it becomes a nightmarish mash-up of (more) Gossip Girl meets Quentin Tarrantino. Except that there are no black people. 6. Is it still possible to get high from sniffing glue? I thought that ended in 1972. Evidently not.7. The word "fractal" should not be used in a novel twice. Even if the novel runs 770 pages.8. And the most annoying one of all? The poorly paraphrased Gloucestercian line, "As flies to wanton boys..." spoken by a barely glimpsed walk-on character. Nonetheless, I read it.
1027325450	Whew! What a whole lotta book.I enjoyed this story, but it was quite long. I listened to the audio in double time and I am glad I did as I am not sure I would have stayed interested in this the whole time. There were slow parts that I think would have been boring if I wouldn't have been able to let them fly by on my commute. That being said, this story probably could have been told in 400 pages, but the author really fleshed it out, told extra anecdotes, focused on detail, stressed existential introspection of the main character. In the end, all these things came together for a pretty amazing experience. I give this 4 stars simply because I am amazed of the detail the author put into it - it is a work of art. The removal of the one star was because sometimes it was just a bit too much!
3248842150	مراجعة شاملة للرواية على قناة بتاع الكتب: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=of8rC...يمكنني الآن أن أفهم لم استغرقت هذه الرواية كاتبتها أحد عشرعامًا لإنهائها. هناك روايات تقف أمامها عاجزًا؛ لا شيء يُقال، لا كلمات يمكنها أن تصف شعورك، لا يمكنك إلا أن تقف وقفة تبجيل، وحين تذهب عنك النشوة تحاول استعادتها مرة بعد مرة. ثيو ديكر، الفتى النيويوركي الذي فقد والدته فأصبح في مواجهة الحياة وحيدًا، تكيل له الحياة الصفعات، واحدة تلو الأخرى، يخالف التيار أحيانًا ويمشي مع القطيع كثيرًا، لكن الحياة لم تمنحه هدنة أبدًا. رغم أن الأم لا تظهر، جسديًا على الأقل، إلا في صفحات قليلة، لكن روحها منثورة في كل صفحة، يمكنك أن تشم رائحتها، يمكنك أن تمد يدك إليها. فقد ثيو والدته، وبصورة ما، استطاعت الكاتبة أن تجعلنا نفتقدها أيضًا؛ جميلة، رقيقة، عاشقة للفن، إنسانية لأبعد الحدود، ملائكية للغاية. الرواية معزوفة طويلة، لوحة مليئة بالتفاصيل، طبقات فوق طبقات، لا يمكنك أبدًا، بقراءة واحدة، أن تحيط بكل تفاصيلها وجوانبها، لكننا نحاول قدر استطاعتنا، نحاول تخيّل كل هذا الجمال واستنشاقه، نحاول أن نحفظه داخلنا، بعيدًا عن قسوة العالم ووحشية النسيان.
1832783858	Hacía mucho rato que le tenía ganas a este libro, ganador del Pulitzer en el 2014 y con cuantiosas críticas desbordantes de adoración. Cada vez que entraba alguna librería y recorría mi vista por las estanterías me encontraba con lomos de colores, que gritaban ¡mirame, mirame, mirame!, con los nombres en letras grandes de sus respectivos autores para ubicarlos con facilidad. Pero siempre, y no había excepción, me topaba con un rectángulo blanco que resaltaba por sobre todos los demás, y siempre, también sin excepción, lo sacaba para hojearlo y admirar, so fetichista, sus dimensiones. Sin embargo, a pesar de que me llamaba poderosísimamente la atención, nunca lo compraba. Yo ya conocía a la autora, y por supuesto al libro en cuestión; ya tenía leído un libro de Tartt (El secreto), y me había maravillado, en especial por su escritura tan limpia pero cargada de emoción; no obstante, me ponía excusas para no comprarlo, ya fuera por su extensión, ya fuera por su precio o ya fuera porque tenía otros libros a los que le daba más prioridad.Pero aquí estoy. Como ven, finalmente tuve el ¿valor? de comprarlo. Aquí estoy sin saber qué pensar de lo que me ha dejado y lo que ha hecho de mí este libro. Dos días y medio me bastaron para acabarlo de lo adictivo, mordaz y emocionante que fue esta aventura. Y sí, sinceramente no tengo ni la más mínima idea de lo que decir. Es un libro extraño, con muchas páginas y sin mucha historia que contar. Aburrido. Tedioso. Excesivamente descriptivo. Con páginas y más páginas usadas para no contar nada. Pero también existe algo, entre tanta paja, que hizo que siguiera leyendo, y con sólida adicción, dependiente de un relato que no lograba interesarme del todo pero que de alguna manera que sobrepasa mis capacidades de comprensión me había atrapado. Podría decir que me encantó el inicio, como también podría decir que la odié, o podría decir que la parte de Las Vegas fue insulsa y redundante, como asimismo decir que fue esencial. El final no me gustó, muy de película de acción, irreal, pidiendo a gritos ser Best-seller, pero también me gustó. No tiene sentido. No obstante hay algo...Como Theodore, quizá tengo que escribir para hallarle el sentido, quizá no. El jilguero aborda el tema de la belleza en el arte y la contemplación profana del ojo humano, algo que también es tratado en El secreto. Y creo que eso es lo esencial del libro. El jilguero empieza con una explosión en el Metropolitan Museum of Art en Nueva York, que se cobra la vida de la madre del protagonista, Theodore Decker, también presente pero resultado ileso. Este, entre tanta consternación, se roba un cuadro, el famoso Jilguero de Fabritius. A partir de allí se le da inicio a una Novela, sí, con mayúscula, que despliega las maestras habilidades narrativas de Donna Tartt. A partir de allí se le da inicio a un Coming of Age dickensiano que girará en torno a las desgracias y errores de Theo, desde su infancia hasta ya entrado en el mundo adulto, acompañado de una familia sustituta fría y distante, de un padre alcohólico, ludópata e irresponsable, de un amigo que le abrirá las puertas a los estupefacientes y a la delincuencia, de un amor no correspondido y de un tutor bondadoso. Pero lo que siempre está presente detrás de tanta desgracia e infortunio y soledad es el cuadro robado, El jilguero, admirado con pasión y cuidado irrefrenable por Theo. El cuadro es como la piedra angular de las más de mil páginas de este libro. En torno a la pintura orbita todo lo que sucede en la vida de Theodore, como una condena que lo encadena y un escape de sus calamidades personales.Y en eso mismo quiero poner un freno, y para mí este es el sentido del libro. El arte como un dios físico, como una idea materializada que debemos contemplar con el alma y no con el ojo. La obsesión de Theo por el cuadro es mucho más que una admiración meramente artística, como también es más que un enlace con su madre fallecida. Es una ventana por la cual mirar un futuro más dichoso, una evasión al desastre. Es la verdadera fuente de la eternidad, que liga a la fragilidad del ser humano con algo celestial. Esto es lo que, en mi opinión, propone Tartt: el arte como el único camino hacia lo sublime. Siguiendo esta lógica, tal vez la autodestrucción de Theo no sea otra cosa que un intento de poner a prueba la magia del arte y de la belleza, de asegurarse de que frente a la debilidad de su cuerpo y mente, siempre iba a tener su acceso, cuando quisiera, a la divinidad del arte.Es imposible ignorar el trayecto hacia la maduración personal de Theo, una maduración desenfrenada y salvaje. Theo fue despojado de su infancia y arrojado a un mundo de adultez prematura. A la deriva se adueñaba de cualquier camino que lo pudiera llevar a la independencia, mentalizado en no tener nada que perder ni por lo que vivir más que por la autosuficiencia. Cuando Theo se encuentra con Boris, la oportunidad de madurar por sí mismo se le fue presentada. La amistad entre Theo ("Potter") y Boris es una prueba del vínculo independiente que tanto perseguía Theo, no un cariño parental, dependiente o profundo, sino una relación que lo ayudase a despegarse de lo que ya no tenía más, puesto que no había nadie que lo guiara como solo su madre podría hacerlo. Y aquí surge la influencia, la inmoralidad, la honestidad brutal de Boris y la inocencia siendo lentamente erosionada de Theo, que presenta un quiebre (lamentablemente para mal) de nuestro protagonista. Fue una suerte la aparición de Boris. Si no hubiese sido por este personaje el libro se hubiese desintegrado en la nada absoluta antes de la página 500. Boris es uno de los mejores personajes secundarios con lo que me he encontrado, y aun así ni siquiera me caía del todo bien. Esto es lo raro de El jilguero: encanta y aborrece en simultáneo. Por supuesto que esta novela tiene errores, o los que al menos yo considero errores o puntos flojos. Por ejemplo, la excesiva cantidad de coincidencias (no me pude creer la facilidad con la que Theo se encontraba con gente conocida en una ciudad tan habitada y grande como Nueva York), decisiones que ponían en evidencia a la escritora detrás de la historia de lo forzadas que eran, diálogos eternos que no llevaban a nada, Tartt tocando sus propias campanas en esas últimas páginas masturbatorias, etcétera. (Y estoy perdonando las discusiones de arte interminables porque se relacionan indirectamente con el lado filosófico del libro, como asimismo la pésima traducción, plagada de erratas infantiles). Sin embargo esto de alguna manera revitaliza la idea de que El jilguero es más que sus flaquezas y sus aciertos. Sé desde ya que me costará despegarme de este relato que no me maravilló del todo y aun así estoy escribiendo maravillas sobre él.Nihilismo descontrolado, soledad, excesos, engaños, corazones rotos y pérdidas arbitrarias, pero también bondad, amor, lealtad, amistad, culpa y arrepentimiento. Tartt enseña que desde la simpleza se puede hacer grandes construcciones literarias. La historia es poca, pero logra llegar a su cometido, que es conmover al lector. Tartt ha logrado interpelarme desde un argumento simple pero poderoso. El jilguero es una mirada pesimista y aun así esperanzadora de la naturaleza humana. Un recorrido filosófico por la vida de un personaje no del todo atractivo pero que con la habilidad de Tartt con las palabras atrapará a cualquier amante de la buena literatura. Tartt trata, desde un lado profundamente humano y cruel, la libertad de acciones y qué es lo que nos hace ser quienes somos, en nuestros errores y nuestros desperfectos y nuestra lucha incesante por conocer por qué seguimos viviendo.
1105512213	3.5 starsThis book was gorgeous and packed such a punch in the end, but I think it could easily be 200 pages shorter. it just took suuuuuch a long time to get through the middle of this book, and it started to lag. The ending was so powerful though that I'm glad I stuck with it!
943790391	This book was SO good that I honestly didn't want to read anything after I finished it because I knew nothing could compete. What an amazing, epic story. I was in awe of Donna Tartt on every page. Cannot recommend it enough.
747033261	Clear off the biggest wall in the gallery of novels about beloved paintings. You’ll need lots of space for “The Goldfinch,” Donna Tartt’s giant new masterpiece about a small masterpiece by Carel Fabritius. Don’t worry if you can’t recall that name from a dark and somnolent art-history classroom. Though he was a celebrated student of Rembrandt, the Dutch painter was almost blasted into obscurity by a gunpowder explosion in 1654, a fatal accident that made his few extant paintings even rarer than Vermeer’s. But Tartt’s novel is no delicate study of a girl with a pearl earring. She places Fabritius’s tiny bird at the center of a capacious story that soars across the United States and around the planet, lighting on themes of beauty, family and destiny.Tartt’s many fans have waited with great expectations since her previous book, “The Little Friend,” was published in 2002. While the world has been transformed over the past decade, one of the most remarkable qualities of “The Goldfinch” is that it arrives singed with 9/11 terror but redolent of a 19th-century novel. Indeed, Charles Dickens floats through these pages like Marley’s ghost. You can hear the great master in everything from the endlessly propulsive plot to the description of a minor character with a “cleft chin, doughball nose, tense slit of a mouth, all bunched tight in the center of a face which glowed a plump, inflamed, blood-pressure pink.”There’s nothing slavish, though, about Tartt’s allusions to Dickens. She’s not writing an extension of “Great Expectations” such as Peter Carey’s marvelous “Jack Maggs.” Still, anyone who’s run through the streets of London with Pip and Estella will catch glimpses of those characters and others in “The Goldfinch.” And even if Tartt can’t write with Dickens’s speed, she knows how to create the same kind of intimate voice, laced with her own brand of mordant comedy and sorrow that makes us willing captives.Although it opens on a Christmas Day, amid the festivities of the season, the story is framed by grief. Theo Decker is rotting in a hotel room in Amsterdam, sweaty with fever and narcotics, afraid to leave or even call for help. His only solace is a brief dream visit from his beloved mother, who died 14 years ago, when he was a mischievous eighth-grader.“Things would have turned out better if she had lived,” Theo begins, and immediately we’re swept back to that calamitous spring day in New York when he and his mom darted into the Metropolitan Museum. Just moments after she explains the composition of Rembrandt’s unnerving “Anatomy Lesson,” Theo finds himself lying amid dozens of bodies flayed by a terrorist’s bomb. In the chaos of flesh and rubble, Theo comforts a dying old man and then stumbles out of the smoldering museum clutching Fabritius’s “The Goldfinch,” his mother’s favorite painting —saved from the flames of fate once again.With its bloody ironies and nested coincidences, this explosive opening scene is awash with the concussive disorientation of the moment but also polished by years of regret. Amid the smoke and sirens, Theo is “gasping, half-choked with plaster dust,” already tormented by the illusion of culpability, by the endlessly rehearsed accusation that he could have placed his mother and himself somewhere else — anywhere else — that day. This is, among many other things, a novel of survivor’s guilt, of living in “the generalized miasma of shame and unworthiness and being-a-burden.”With a Dutch master’s attention to detail, Tartt has created a narrative voice that is simultaneously immediate and retrospective, filled with the boy’s adolescent anxieties and the man’s fermented despair. “How was it possible to miss someone as much as I missed my mother?” Theo says. “Sometimes, unexpectedly, grief pounded over me in waves that left me gasping; and when the waves washed back, I found myself looking out over a brackish wreck which was illuminated in a light so lucid, so heartsick and empty, that I could hardly remember that the world had ever been anything but dead.”While grief may be the novel’s bassline, Theo’s wit and intelligence provide the book’s endearing melody. Orphaned by the Met bombing, he and that stolen painting drift from one temporary family to another, all of them composed of vibrant characters that he turns over in his mind like a connoisseur of human personality. “How had I fetched up into this strange new life?” Theo wonders, as a series of elaborately developed episodes shows off the range of Tartt’s skill. In Manhattan, she conjures up a brittle Park Avenue clan with all its unconscious privilege and gold-plated dysfunction. In Las Vegas, she’s just as attentive to the tragicomedy of a gambler and his floozy girlfriend riding to ruin on inebriated fantasies of easy money.The novel reaches its greatest luster in an antique store that Theo finds by following the mysterious instructions of that dying old man in the Met. It’s a magical place “where every clock in the house said something different and time didn’t actually correspond to the standard measure but instead meandered along at its own sedate tick-tock, obeying the pace of his antique-crowded backwater, far from the factory-built, epoxy-glued version of the world.” There, under the tutelage of an absent-minded restorer, Theo enjoys a bit of restoration himself. His appreciation for beautiful old things is refined and nurtured — along with his indelible love for a wounded young woman who lives among the antiques.Tartt has created a rare treasure: a long novel that never feels long, a book worthy of our winter hibernation by the fire. In fact, toward page 500, a couple of hundred pages after most novelists would have packed up their sentences and closed the covers, she recharges the plot by introducing another complex strain of intrigue involving international gangsters. And so, at the very moment when you fear it might stall, “The Goldfinch” takes flight again.But the Victorian tenor of this thoroughly modern novel isn’t reflected only in its extended plot and vast collection of memorable characters. You can also feel that 19th-century spirit in the author’s willingness to take advantage of her enormous canvas to reflect self-consciously on moral and aesthetic concerns that so many contemporary fiction writers are too timid or too sophisticated to address directly. Free will and fate, pragmatic morality and absolute values, an authentic life and a dutiful one — those fusty old terms spring to life in an extended passage of philosophical trompe l’oeil as Theo expounds with the authority of a man who has suffered, who knows why the chained bird sings. Through years of guilt and drug-dulled pain, experience has taught him that loving something sublime can soothe “the writhing loneliness of life.” The novel ends in full-throated praise for the power of a great painting to sink into your soul, to act as a bulwark against the inevitable victory of death.Look here: A great novel can do that, too.
2882753450	this was by far one of the best endings I’ve ever read and god I usually hate endings. wow this book. I feel like I went on such a journey with Theo
2332713776	I'm giving it three stars because--well I don't know. I sorta feel obligated to compliment the writing. I mean the writing itself was by any definition phenomenal. I just couldn't get into the story, and I have no idea why. I have no clue why so much was happening (I mean there was a fricking terrorist attack) and I was still so bored. It was just Holden Caufield^n if n=infinity. Like Theo just didn't change. Well--spoilers below....He changed after his mom died obviously but that was early in the book. From there the rest of the book was just angst. So much angst. So much pining, so much self-loathing and so much angst. Again, it's not like this wasn't unjustified, but it was a long book, and a lot of angst. It didn't make the stakes feel any higher, it just made me dislike Theo. I don't mind disliking the protagonist, but there was just nothing to latch on to. I mean he was a pretty reactive protagonist in the end (especially during the climax). Like he killed Martin, sure, but he didn't steal the painting back, or set up the job. He just got carried around by Boris, shoved in the right place at the right time, then yeah he shot a guy at the end to give him some action but after that it was back to the angst. I was disappointed by how unimportant Las Vegas turned out to be. I mean all it did was send Theo on a life of drugs and all the important things to happen in Vegas happened to Boris after Theo left so we didn't even see it. All we saw was drug use, angst, and how pathetic his father was. I don't know. I'm talking in circles now. There's no doubt Donna Tartt can write circles around any of her contemporaries but I just struggled to get into this book.
4117885206	This book does the painting justice. It was lovingly crafted over the span of 10 years and it shows. The book is sooooo long, but in order to tell the story properly and have the reader fully appreciate it it needs to be. That's why the film version flopped so bad. I can see this being a series because only that medium would allow you to fall in love with the story in the same manner. This is definitely one of those "it's the journey not the destination" type books. If you focus on just the painting you may feel like it drones on and on. It's not about the painting. The painting is a key part of it, but this is a coming of age story about a boy who experiences great levels of loss at an unbelievably early age. Theo is always struggling for a stable home and life, but nothing is coming to him easily. When you factor in his never-wavering sense of right and wrong, he is always battling his inner demons just to survive another day. What an emotional rollercoaster from start to finish. Even the ending leaves the reader with a lot to think about. Just like real life, it's complicated and is open to interpretation.
3531095902	god bless donna tarttfull review to come⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻rereading with malissa because the last time i read this i was 14 and i do not think i really got it
5281174255	„Важно е онова, което ни учи да разговаряме със себе си; онова, което ни учи да си пеем от отчаяние. Но картината ме научи и на друго — че можем да разговаряме един с друг, прехвърляйки бариерата на времето.“„Щиглецът“ е грандиозен и брилянтен роман! Той представлява съвсем реалистична трагична история, но същевременно по вълнуващ сюрреалистичен начин разказва за въздействието на Изкуството върху човешкия живот. То наистина е явление, което придава смисъл и помага на човек по-добре да разбира себе си и другите хора, но и има своята тъмна страна, ако любовта към него се превърне в мания по притежаване на вещи.Обожавам стила на писане на Дона Тарт! След „Тайната история“, отново съм покорен от нейните разкошни описания и изключително стойностни мисли... Тези две чудесни книги имат доста разлики помежду си, но и общото непреходно послание, че търсенето единствено на красотата би могло да бъде разрушително, ако не е свързано и със смисъл.Главният герой Тио Декър има много тежко детство, след като майка му умира в терористично покушение над музей, от което той оцелява. Обаче, преди да се измъкне от сградата, той импулсивно краде и скрива прочутата картина „Щиглецът“. След това заживява временно или при семейството на съученика си Анди Барбър, както и успява да открие Хоуби и Пипа... Един ден пристига неговият баща (който ги е изоставил преди време), като го взима да живее при него и новата му жена в Лас Вегас, където се е преместил, тъй като вече е станал заклет комарджия. Впоследствие Тио значително пропада, започвайки да употребява наркотици и краде, заедно с приятеля му Борис. По-нататък успява да се завръне в Ню Йорк, обаче не се откъсва от забъркването в големи опасности...„Дори самото предположение, че баща ми би могъл да има приятели (да не говорим пък за „особено близки“), почиваше на такова фундаментално неразбиране на личността му, че не знаех как да отговоря.“„Но понякога, неочаквано, скръбта ме връхлиташе на вълни, които ме оставяха без дъх; а когато вълните се оттеглеха, установявах, че виждам около себе си отблъскваща разруха, пустота, осветена от толкова ярка и мъчителна светлина, че почти не ми оставаха спомени от времето, когато светът не е бил мъртъв.“„...все пак нали винаги именно онова, което не хармонира с всичко останало, което не е съвсем както трябва, кой знае защо е най-близо до сърцето?“„Често се случваше мислите ми да хлътват суеверно в такива мрачни разломи.“„Какво ли би казал Торо за Лас Вегас; за светлините и врявата на този град, за боклука и илюзиите, за гигантските сгради и пустотата зад фасадите?“„Интересно беше да се наблюдава как се променяше Борис, когато говореше на друг език — някак се оживяваше, нещо се събуждаше у него, сякаш в тялото му се настаняваше някаква различна, по-енергична личност.“„— Необичайни отношения ли? — повтори Ксандра, която бе се изправила зад него и обви с ръце шията му. — Това звучи някак мръсно. — Е — баща ми се извърна, за да я целуне, — мръсното подсъзнание е извор на младост. — Така изглежда.“„Измина един дълъг, печален миг, в който ние се гледахме — високочестотни сигнали, химическо взаимодействие на самота със самота, като двама тибетски монаси на планински връх.“„За да разбираш света, понякога можеше да се съсредоточиш само върху една много малка част от него, да се взираш в най-близкото и да го приемаш като образец на цялото; но откакто картината ми се изплъзна, аз се чувствах удавен, заличен в огромен простор — не само от предсказуемия безкрай на времето и пространството, но и от непреодолимото разстояние между хората, дори когато са съвсем близо един до друг...“„Непознати улици, необясними завои, безлики пространства. Дори бях престанал да се опитвам да чета табелките с имената на улиците и да съхраня известна представа къде се намираме. От всичко около мен — от всичко, което можех да видя — единственото, което можеше да послужи за ориентир, беше луната, плуваща високо над облаците — но и тя, макар и ярка и пълна, кой знае защо изглеждаше някак нестабилна, лишена от тежест, не чистата, сигурна луна над пустинята, а по-скоро нещо като празничен светлинен ефект, който може да изгасне с натискането на един клавиш на компютъра или пък да отплува нанякъде в мрака и да изчезне от поглед.“„Но самият Уелти казваше, че у някои вещи има нещо съдбоносно. Всеки търговец на антики, всеки специалист ги разпознава. Вещите, които се връщат отново и отново. За някой друг, някой, който не търгува с такива вещи, тази роля може да не изпълнява вещ, а някой град, някой цвят, време на деня. Гвоздеят, на който може да се закачи и заплете тъканта на съдбата ти.“„Взирам се в неразбиращите лица на останалите пътници — мъкнещи куфарчета и раници, пристъпващи бавно към изхода на самолета — и мисля за онова, което каза Хоуби: красотата променя тъканта на реалността. Постоянно си спомням и една по-традиционна мъдрост — а именно че преследването на чистата красота е капан, най-прекият път към горчивината и скръбта, че красотата трябва да се съчетае с нещо по-смислено.“
746918760	I have not read Donna Tartt's other books. Even though, she has gotten much critical acclaim, the stories just didn't seem to interest me, but for some reason I was attracted to The Goldfinch. I was at first put off by the length - 775 pages in the kindle version. I will admit that there may have been a few times when I felt that it dragged on a bit, but there was never a moment that I thought that I would put it down. This is the best book I have read this year and may very well be one of my favorites ever. From the beginning I was so taken by the story of Theo Decker and I cared about what happened to him from the first page to the last. The cast of incredible characters in Theo's life, Tartt's absolutely beautiful descriptive, detailed writing were for me spell binding. It's a story of insurmountable loss, friendship, love, art, and some deeply philosophical themes that I would not presume to write about. Starting with the bombing at the Museum of Art and the death of his mother , Theo’s life if filled with sadness . The losses just continue until Theo finally loses himself to drugs, finds himself involved in the underworld of stolen art , as the result of his taking the painting of the goldfinch on that fateful day. But no matter what he does, even towards the end with the incredible and complicated series of events that lead him to the depths of despair, my heart was broken for him as he says “Because , here’s the truth: life is catastrophe. …..better never born than born into this cesspool. “ Then somehow on the last pages, Theo finds some good, some hope – “That maybe even if we’re not always so glad to be here, it’s our task to immerse ourselves anyway: wade straight through it, right through the cesspool, while keeping eyes and hearts open….For if disaster and oblivion have followed this painting down through time - so too has love.”It’s too long of a book to think about reading again now , but I might have to someday.
678630566	"There's no 'rational grounds' for anything I care about."This is turning into the summer where I read much anticipated forthcoming novels, but which I'm slightly undeserving to read since I haven't read the author's previous novel. There are probably a lot more deserving people out there for these books. But that's the benefit of being Karen's best friend, and she does get it right most of the time (view spoiler)[since she'll take offense at not getting it right all the time, where she gets it wrong is with her dislike of Gravity's Rainbow, her almost stellar taste is marred by that one blemish, but no one can be perfect (hide spoiler)]This is not an easy book to review. If you haven't read this book yet and you look forward to reading it I would recommend treading lightly while reading other reviews. I haven't seen too many yet, and the ones I have seen are just fine, but I do imagine once this book is released there will be more than a few 'book reports' of the novel given. And seriously any book report of this is a major spoiler. Any. Unless you like reading almost eight hundred page books and not letting the author craft the story in her own wonderous way and would like some internets book reviewer to usurp the meticulous way she discloses just about every detail of the story. ..threw out some kind of weird handshake--part gang member, part fraternity boy, past International Sign Language--that I wasn't sure how to return. In confusion I withdrew my hand and--not knowing what else to do--bumped fists with him, feeling stupid.Besides the masterful manner she tells the story, what impressed me most about the book was how deftly Donna Tartt wrote from the male perspective. I'm sure that there are more than a few parts of this book where Tartt's voice comes through in place of the main character's, but even when (if?) it does, this is a long novel written in a quite authentic sounding male perspective (ok, a very particular type of male, and maybe one that I can relate to on a bunch of levels so it feels sort of like, hey she's getting it right....), which maybe isn't all that impressive, since it's a skill novelists have had in their toolboxes for quite some time now. Maybe it's just reading another book recently that was so obviously just the author rambling on about things he didn't like and then calling it a novel, and a technical one at that because he had the gumption to only hit enter and tab once to start only a second paragraph in all over a hundred and something pages that I'm feeling more in awe of the finely constructed workmanship on display in this novel. Her nailing the male voice was reminiscent to me of the way A.M. Homes got it right also in her latest novel, May We Be Forgiven. I thought about not giving this book five stars though. There were a few parts of the book that I wasn't completely fond of, and while I think that the main character was wonderfully done, I also thought that he was a bit tiresome at times, but I also think that I'm quite tiresome at times and the sort of person he is, well he should be a bit tiresome and much at times. Not that there was anything wrong with him as a character, he just didn't shine sometimes like the supporting cast of characters did. If I'd read more than one Charles Dickens novel I'd say that this is sort of like what he does, with such great secondary characters that really bring to life the story. But I might just be talking out of my ass here. It wouldn't be the first time for that. There are also certain things in the book I would have liked to have seen resolved in different ways, and I will admit to feeling frustrated that what I wanted wasn't happening, but just because a book didn't meet my exact expectations, great as they may be, doesn't mean that the book is worse for that. It's probably actually better for not doing what I wanted it to do. If I'd been steering this plot there probably would have been some serious bullshit resolutions going on.So I'll admit I was toying with giving his four stars because it didn't quite go the way I wanted, but I'm also not sure exactly what I wanted, or how everything could have been resolved in a satisfying manner if the couple of things I wanted to happen had happened. What else.There are some interesting mentions of music in the book. I think you could find worse things to do on a summer evening than look on Spotify some of the classical composers mentioned as being on Theo's and Pippa's iPods and giving them a listen. She also mentions Belle and Sebastian and Arvo Pärt, two favorites of mine for different listening moods. I thought of making a playlist of things she mentioned in the book, but I sort of forgot and I have to be passing on this ARC soon, but maybe if I get a regular trade edition I'll embark on this quest. There are actual things about the book I'd kind of like to write about, but I'll leave them be, I'm really paranoid about the whole spoiler thing, not that they are major spoilers, but just wonderful ways she handles the story that if I say much more I'll just ruin, and I have no interest in ruining this for anyone. Oh, yeah I'm supposed to mention that I got this book for free, from either Netgalley, the publisher, author or through some other way that I get books to read before they are published. Apparently it's a federal law to mention this (for reals?) and not just a cheap reason to float the shit out of my reviews. I haven't been given any monies, nor have I been coerced in anyway to write the review you just read. Huzzah!
768003988	Solid story. Gifted writer.I met the author at a party. She's very tiny-maybe five feet tall. If Magic Johnson put her in his pocket, you would NEVER KNOW.
3596662996	This story is about a boy who loses a mother and gains a painting, which sets him on a path of loss and gain, like nothing I've experienced before. The author Donna Tartt is a literary master.The book is long, more than 700 pages, but don't let that put you off. It doesn't feel like work, in fact, I couldn't put it down it drags you into the story of a boy who loses his mother and is burdened with a priceless painting. The description of how he loses his mother had my heart racing -- literally -- pounding in my chest. Her death takes place in New York's Metropolitan Museum, and by now you probably know as a consequence of a terrorist bomb. The scenes that follow are so real I felt like I was Theo like I was home waiting for my mother, my only care-giver. It was too real. Impossible to read. Impossible not to. The story changes gear several times and every time it kept me hanging on, gripping onto the edge of my proverbial reading chair. Theo, the narrator has no roots, is bounced around from home to home, living with a series of people -- a friend from school, his absent father, and the gay partner of the man he watched die in the bomb blast. He plunges into depression, drugs, crime, an evoking boyhood friendship, and even, for a short while, homelessness.His only stability, his secret (priceless painting, The Goldfinch) which he keeps nearby and hidden. We experience his wounds and the consequences of them and the dislocation of his life - emotional, physical, and spiritual. There are so many twists and turns in this tale of a motherless boy whose life involves dramatic changes and is peopled with a vast cast of characters, many of whose affections and intentions remain unclear, they all have their own stuff to deal with.The painting – one that actually exists in the world – is The Goldfinch by Carel Fabritius, a student of Rembrandt's, who died at the age of 32 when a gunpowder factory near his studio exploded. Almost all his work was destroyed. The Goldfinch is widely considered the finest of the paintings that survived. At the beginning of the book, Theo's mother, moments before she dies says, "anything we manage to save from history is a miracle," and this theme runs deep through the veins of the novel. It should come as no surprise, that Theo's only treasure becomes an opportunity for betrayal, suspicion, double-dealing, and crime. Not all action and suspense, some of the book's most memorable moments happen in stillness. The prose is glorious. I highlighted over a hundred passages to revisit for their beautiful craft. This novel is much more than plot and characters it takes you much further. The last few pages integrate all the serious, big, complicated ideas beneath the surface and holds them up to the light. Not with clever riffs, humor or op-ed themes but to a place beyond that – to a place of meaning, or, as the author refers to it, "a rainbow edge … where all art exists, and all magic. And … all love."
809825894	Low buzzing noise, inside the room. Guiltily I turned - someone coming? No: only Popchik, cotton white after his bath, nestled among the pillows of her unmade bed and snoring with a drooling, blissful, half-purring sound. And though there was something pathetic about it - taking comfort in her left-behind things like a puppy snuggled in an old coat - I crawled in under the sheets and nestled down beside him, smiling foolishly at the smell of her comforter and the silky feel of it on my cheek.This is really hard for me to rate.WHAT WAS GOOD:1.) The writing. The writing isn't just good - it's excellent. The book is a beautiful work of art. I mean, as a piece of writing, not the physical book although that's nice, too. Tartt writes wonderful, exquisite, touching, truthful passages. She also has a stunning vocabulary that had me scrambling for a dictionary more than once. Actually, probably about 100 times.2.) The physical book. It is printed (at least the hardback first edition) on some kind of silky, high-quality paper that you will find yourself absentmindedly stroking at odd times while reading. o.O3.) The book is a bit funny! This was the loveliest surprise to me. I would have been 10x more likely to pick this up if I had known it was going to make me laugh. I mean, it's not a laughfest! But at least one good laugh every fifty pages. I was chuckling out loud, even in public. Such a plus! Who wants to read something boring or sad? Or even worse, boring AND sad?4.) Excellent, fleshed-out characters that you can easily visualize. For the most part.5.) The amazing, wonderful and strange friendship between Borys and Theo that I adored. It was very intense and very..., I don't know. I just really, really liked it. I think this aspect of the book is where Tartt's being a female shows through.What do you mean by that?Okay. Do you know how we always ask and analyze if male authors have written "good" (meaning accurate, I guess) female characters? But this question is rarely turned around. Does this female author write "good" (meaning accurate) male characters?Tartt chooses to make her main character a boy. (I say 'boy' because he is 13-15 for 60% or so of the book). The friendship between Borys and Theo really threw me for a loop. I had no idea boys had friendships like this. You'd know what I mean if you read the book. The only people I've known with friendships like this one are a.) girls/women and b.) men who have been through some shit together (war, prison, concentration camps of any sort, grown up in the orphanage together... stuff like that).So it was strange to me to see the boys in this kind of friendship together. Had they been through some shit? Yes, I suppose you could argue that this is the reason they had such an intense and strong and close and telepathic friendship, but to me that argument doesn't really hold water. But I'll accept it as a theory. The shit these boys went through was separate shit, not shared shit. Which is why it was harder for me to think this was a super-realistic friendship. But okay. I adored the friendship, whether it was realistic or not.6.) Great portrayal of mourning and PTSD....WHAT WAS BAD:Sigh.1.) The first 428 pages of the book (out of 771), when Theo is aged 13-16ish were amazing and I really loved them. However, after that, when Theo is an adult (starting on page 429 when it's '8 years later' and Theo is 23ish) I hated him. I despised him. I couldn't stand him.Why?Because Adult Theo is a dirtbag. Now, granted, as a kid Theo was a dirtbag, too. However, I am forgiving of kids. I can forgive and understand 13-15-year-old Theo for doing all kinds of shit. He's a child/teen, his mom died in a horrific way, his choice of friends is... less than savory, ... all that and it's resulting events I can understand and forgive. Fine.But when it turns out he's grown and he's pulling the same shit at age 25 that he did when he was 14, well, that's where I have some problems.But aren't you compassionate towards someone who's mother died and who has PTSD?Sure. Sure I'm compassionate. But we're talking about someone who 12 years (TWELVE YEARS) after the 'accident' still cannot do basic, human things like be honest, have a healthy romantic relationship, or live a single day without (view spoiler)[heavy drugs and alcohol use (hide spoiler)] and I'm like -_-Come on. PULL YOURSELF TOGETHER, MAN. Stop being such a weak-ass, pathetic-ass, dumbass, sorry excuse for a human being. I can't STAND the way he just goes through life, doing whatever comes into his head: (view spoiler)[sleeping with married/partnered women, cheating on women, hiding girlfriends from one another, selling fake antiques to people for tons of money - putting not only himself but his kind, sweet, honest business-partner/adoptive-father at risk, and being a very heavy drinker and serious drug addict. (hide spoiler)]The only thing I could understand and have sympathy for was the (view spoiler)[alcohol and drug addiction. (hide spoiler)] I have sympathy for that, even though I really didn't like it - especially since he is completely unconcerned with it and has been doing it for over a decade.He has NO thought of his future, NO love for anyone but himself, never fucking thinks about anyone but himself, he's a selfish being who just wallows in self-pity 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. He's pathetic. Weak. Completely despicable.Oh, but he loves Pippa!Are you flippin' kidding me? No he doesn't. She's not even a real person to him, more like a teddy bear he's reaching out for or some kind of substitute for his mother. She, at least, tries to work on her shit and become a better person. She makes effort (I know it's hard!) to get back her life and she also tries hard to live in the world and be her own agent, whereas Theo just kind of sits there.And I didn't like Borys either - he's a dirtbag in his own right, striking his girlfriend and giving her a fat lip, also a druggie and an alcoholic, not to mention a thief who steals anything and everything that isn't nailed down - but at least he has a spine and some zest for life. Theo is just a sadsack who seems to think life isn't worth living. IT'S SO AGGRAVATING. I was seriously frustrated and angry to no end with Adult Theo.And he's DUMB. DUMB, DUMB, DUMB. I'm talking about when (view spoiler)[he goes with Borys to Amsterdam to get the painting back. And then he's all shocked and having second thoughts when Borys has a gun! Oh, wow, what did you THINK this was going to be like, cupcake?!!?!? Fuck. So stupid.AND THEN, he's all sitting in his hotel room, moping around, and completely ready to turn himself in and blow the whole operation AND/OR commit suicide.I WAS JUST SO ANGRY WITH HIM. CHICKENSHIT LITTLE CRYBABY SPINELESS DIRTBAG. Ugh. (hide spoiler)]And then there was no end to his philosophical bullshit whining about how life has no meaning and life is shit and all this stuff. *$#$ ^%#$*. Spare me! Stand up and start acting like a man! PULL YOURSELF TOGETHER. Can't you see you're hurting the people around you, not to mention putting them in danger!?!?!?! Selfish.Okay. I'm calm. Breathe, Carmen. Breathe....The book isn't really about the Goldfinch (the painting). Instead, the painting acts as a sort of touchstone, bringing all the pieces and parts of the novel together. Which was a relief. I like art but I can't understand the way people go on about it. And there was a bit of that in this novel, but not so much "Art is God! Worship art! Art is the meaning of life!" stuff that I was upset. Just the right balance, in my opinion....The thing that made me most sad in this book was...Parents die.Um, no.Drug and alcohol addictions suck.No. I mean, they do, but that's not what really got me.People you love betray you.That's heartbreaking (view spoiler)[both Theo's betrayal of Hobie and Borys's betrayal of Theo (hide spoiler)], but no.You love someone in a romantic way but they don't feel the same way.No. Actually I was angry with him for mooning after Pippa for a billion years when she was clearly "We're just friends." Can't take a hint.No, what REALLY got to me and made me sad was the stark reality that children have no agency and are kind of foisted off on whoever is willing to care for them. It's sad and terrifying to end up with relatives who don't want you, family friends who don't love you, people who abuse you, some random foster home where no one cares if you disappear for days or not... etc. etc. etc. Stuff like this is so real and so accurate and it makes me very sad....This book strongly reminded me of The Catcher in the Rye. It has the same kind of tone to it. Take that as you will.I was also struck with similarities to A Christmas Carol, most especially in the last 50 pages or so....Tl;dr - This book is a beautifully written work of art. But do you know what is just (if not more) important than the writing? The story. And I adored the first 60% of the book when Theo is young. However, once Theo hit adulthood I found myself increasingly angry, frustrated, and infuriated with him and his complete disregard for his own life and the lives of others. The ending didn't mollify me, either.Would I recommend reading this? I would say yes. It's gorgeous. But not perfect and certainly not a book that made me happy. More like a book that made me growl. At least it had a sense of humor occasionally. Without the laughs, I would have rated this much lower.Read at your own risk.
708838377	Update: Rereading this was a joy. I do not read a lot of very long books from writers I enjoy this much, and just letting myself read it in long stretches and short sips for a couple of weeks was bliss. The second time around felt very different. It turned out I only remembered the first half and had completely blanked out the second. Las Vegas didn't seem nearly so long the second time and not nearly so frustrating. Whereas the end felt both rushed and too long, the place where I did actually see places where some trimming would have been nice. I know people think it is too long, but there is so much that Tartt does when she lets us stretch out with the characters. Theo is so adept at withholding information from us and then casually dropping it so it is easily to miss how truly damaged and broken he is as he gives you the most important information in little bits here and there, never all at once. I still love the way this book is a modern version of the 19th century classics, a big fat story with themes of guilt and love and betrayal and crime and art and loyalty. I love the intricacy of its characters (I really did love Boris the second time around, I found him rather trying the first time. When you know he is not a distraction but part of the main event, an Artful Dodger type, it is much easier to relax and enjoy him. That is true for much of the book, honestly.)I still have no idea if this will actually work as a film, with it all condensed and shortened, but I'm glad I had a reread before the movie.____________Why did I decide to read "David Copperfield" when I was in college? Because Donna Tartt loved Dickens and was compared to Dickens and I figured I should read some Dickens. I suffered through that book. What I know now is that I should've read "Great Expectations" because that's where I see the similarities to Tartt. And now that I've read "The Goldfinch" I think the two go together beautifully. There are definitely shades and echoes of "Great Expectations" here. And lots of Dickensian flair... if Dickens had lived today and wrote about pill-popping and terrorist threats and such. (Which he would have, of course.)What has always impressed me about Tartt, and what she does here to an even greater extent than her previous novels, is how masterfully she pulls you through her story. I get hooked on her books as much as any suspense or mystery novel. I simply can't stop reading them. Her twists and turns are just plain brilliant and always unexpected. And that she can do all this with her prose is ridiculous. Her writing can go from sparse to lush on a dime and it never feels show-offy or indulgent. I rarely find first-person narratives wholly convincing, but she does it and I don't know how, but she does.If you're a Tartt fan, if--like me--The Secret History is basically your favorite book of all time, you won't be disappointed by The Goldfinch.
561778960	The Goldfinch started out a five-star plus read, the first 500 pages or so were the most compulsively readable fiction I’ve read in quite some time. (Not necessarily “the best”, mind you, whatever that is, but that wonderful immersed feeling where you look forward to getting back to your book, where a whole commute goes by in a bated breath, and bedtimes go by the wayside). But then it fell off, sharply. The last 3rd dragged for me. Even beloved Boris started to grate. Tartt has always gotten a few more balls up in the air than she can gracefully land. Secret History worked, nonetheless, The Little Friend utterly failed. This book was somewhere in between. It ended, and not incompetently, but the last few hundred pages dragged, dabbled in cliché and deus ex machina resolutions, and somehow did not satisfy. But there was a lot to love here. Starting with the gut punch of the opening sections, an almost claustrophobically gripping nightmare of an opener, especially for all of us who were here during 9/11 and have turned, at some point, in the wee hours, to the black fantasy of what if it were me, how would I get out, how would I react. But Tartt adds a particularly traumatic twist – she takes the Met, a place that is a place of refuge, solace and enchantment for so many of us, especially those of us who grew up here – and makes it her Ground Zero. Intense. I had a panicky feeling reading those chapters. Tartt effectively brings us into the world of PTSD that is the novel’s landscape.And all of Theo’s childhood was wonderful. His Holly Golightly-esque mother, the amazing Barbours (stepped out of the pages of the Preppy Handbook), timeless unworldly Hobie, barren Las Vegas and brilliant picaresque Boris. I just kept turning pages – enthralled, saddened, yes, of course, but just enjoying reading and the ride. (Time is so interesting in this novel: Hobie is timeless, but so much of the novel is just as achronistic (more than anachronistic). The opening scene and fourteen years later are both incontrovertibly “now” – but so many of the characters seem sepia toned – is Hobie and Mrs. Barbour’s New York now? Or 50 years ago? Or never – except in the fantasy of the extraurban arrival from the heartland – Theo’s mother, Truman Capote, Tartt herself?)I especially enjoyed the way the book was a love poem to New York and to literature - particularly children’s literature and New York literature. (Yes, Dickens of course – Oliver Twist, Great Expectations, David Copperfield, a great debt to the Old Curiosity Shop but also so very much Catcher in the Rye, and then so much else – from Breakfast at Tiffany’s to the Mixed Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler. Certainly a little Wharton and James along the way. ) Tartt plays in a world that is both satisfyingly real and satisfyingly imaginary – especially to those of us whose imagination is irretrievably deformed by literature! But then – we bog down. A few too many drugs. A few too many nightmares. A few too many raveling and unraveling plot threads. At one point, there is the perfect ending – a lovely coming full circle, and, in a book soaked in Dickens, a perfect tribute to Scrooge’s redemption in A Christmas Carol. But then the book goes on, and on. Finally concluding with a 10 page exhortatory essay that I couldn’t make sense of as coming from Theo. After all that drama, we are left with a rather adolescent Romantic poetry-esque invocation to rage against the dying of the light, while remembering that Beauty is Truth … I know some people I respect have loved that ending, but it felt cheap to me, in light of all that had come before, a sort of "Cliff Notes key to the novel" postscript instead of coming to terms with a proper ending. Ah well, still undoubtedly worth the candle (or kilo of candles, as the case may be). And in 10 years, when both Ms. Tartt and I have slipped irrevocably into late middle age, I shall be sure to read her next investigation of childhood and adolescence (really – have you noticed? Tartt doesn’t do grownups? But we’ll save that for another day).
2404623332	First... This book has one of my favorite ending paragraphs EVER. I read it and (this sounds so cheesy I apologize) but felt it resonate and reflect in my soul, in my conscience. I have so much to say, but I don't want to ramble. Sometimes less is more. This book is dense, unique, and beautifully written. It takes time and care to read this slowly to appreciate every minute detail. It's so worth it.
773917060	Well now……………………Talk about conflicted. I feel as though if I looked that word up (conflicted) in a dictionary it would say read The Goldfinch for a better understanding of the term.Theo is a boywho lives alonewith his mother.They visit a museum. There is a bombingand Theo’s mother is killed.It is there that Theo is influencedby a dying stranger,who gives him a ring and wants him to take“The Goldfinch”.“The Goldfinch” is a masterpiece!It is missed.Theo, whose father took off long ago, is left bereft and rudderless.He takes comfort from “The Goldfinch” and comes up with coping strategies to assuage his guilt.He too is conflicted.And I did wonder about Boris(I applaud Tartt on this character creation)And I was investedThere is nothing wrong with this story.It is so beautifully written, it stimulates and delightsall your many senses.It contains passages that are just so ravishingly well writtenThat you are compelled to go back and read them again.Well now……………………………..I got to say, it is also bloated,so much so that I am truly baffled by the editing process.Cut this beautiful baby bird down by two or three hundred pagesand a Phoenix will surely emerge from the ashes of the discarded words.I was not enthralled.Reading this made me seriously anxious.The last one hundred or so pages wereso tedious and exhausting that I wanted to scoop out my eyes with a spoon.Did I mention that I loved, loved, loved The Secret History?
919839145	Update: September, 2019Here's my review of the film, which premiered this week at the Toronto Film Festival. Ugh. https://nowtoronto.com/movies/tiff201...***Donna Tartt's big, bold, boisterous doorstop of a novel uses a tragic accident and a priceless 17th century Dutch painting to reflect on fate, grief, beauty, friendship and mortality.At nearly 800 pages, it could use tightening, but there's such heart and wisdom packed in here that I wouldn't want to lose a word. Tartt has matured considerably since penning The Secret History.The plot, complete with a few Dickensian coincidences, is beautifully paced; the settings (New York City, Las Vegas, Amsterdam) vivid; and the characters – from a wide variety of backgrounds – simply unforgettable. It's no surprise that she can write about privileged Upper East Side types. But she shows equal skill getting inside the heads of restless Vegas dreamers or low-life European gangsters; she can make us feel what it's like to be a junkie aching for a fix; in her hands, the world of antique furniture restoring becomes thrilling.And while there's an old-fashioned feel to the narrative, with obvious nods to Dickens, the book's tone is decidedly unsentimental and modern. Bursting with life, light and energy, The Goldfinch is a modern masterpiece.
2738996021	رواية أمريكية بنمط "ديكنزي" يشتم هواء طريقة سرده وآلية الدفع بالحكايا النمطية والأسلوب التأملي في المشهد الذي يصف الصورة الحية كأنها لوحة سيريالية تدقق في كل التفاصيل ...تمهل وإمتلاء لروح النص ومشي الخيلاء هو ما تقوم به الكاتبة لجرك إلى الحبكة التي أتت تفاصيلها بكثرة حبوب الأرز..تقول الكاتبة في واحدة من تصريحاتها " أن المهمة الأولى للروائي هي أن يمتع" فمن وجهة نظرها الخاصة أن هذه المهمة أخلاقية نظراً لحالة القارئ الإعتبارية كونه حزين أو مريض فالكاتب كتبها وحيد ليقروءها وحيدون...في طريقك وأنت تبحر في ما يزيد عن الف صفحة في جزءين الكثير ليحكى ويتطلب من القارئ أيضاً الكثير من الصبر للرسو براً على الجانب الثاني "دونا" تجوب بك في إبحار هادئ فكما قالت خذ إجازة لتقرأ وتتمتع فكل شيئ يشي بالهدوء على إيقاعات تارة تبتية جنائزية وتارة تأخذ شكل الجاز الكلاسيكي العميق الهادئ علماً أن الرواية في جزءها الثاني تنحى نحو البعد الفلسفي المؤثر والذي من خلاله يطرح تساؤلات بيولوجية وسيكولوجية عميقة تجعل من المضي بها أمراً ممتعاً ومستساغاً يبرز براعة الكاتبة..رواية كتبت لتقرأ على مهل وأبدعت فيها الكاتبة
1979514836	This book is filled with addiction. To love and to beauty, to drugs and to alcohol. Addiction to fear and doubt and to pain and loss. The story illustrates how one big trauma can splinter off into myriad little dramas and how, finally, the act of tiring of the dervish dance of it all forces an inward journey to the bottom where a small light can guide the person through. This book won’t be read in a day, but the fascination with the protagonist’s journey is likely to be remembered for much, much longer. I recommend this to everyone who has ever wondered how “people get that way” or why “people do what they do”. An amazing read from beginning to end. Well done, Ms Tartt.
5026768472	Anytime a book can keep me entertained and immersed I'm going to enjoy it. I think there's nothing worse than when a book doesn't let me forget myself. This is definitely a long book but I didn't find myself wondering when it would end, I lost track of time while reading. I like Donna Tartt's writing style and I loved the characters. Definitely one of my favorite books I've read so far this year.
1651179330	❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ “To understand the world at all, sometimes you could only focus on a tiny bit of it, look very hard at what was close to hand and make it stand in for the whole.” The Goldfinch is an emotional rollercoaster spanning 700+ pages and proof that literary lightning can indeed strike twice. Fully deserving of the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, The Goldfinch is a triumph of a novel, one that I will have a hard time reviewing (so bear with me & my ramblings).Donna Tartt seamlessly weaves together a Dickensian bildungsroman with a suspenseful and thrilling descent into the criminal underbelly of the art world (forgeries & thefts ahoy!) that boasts the same exquisite prose as her debut novel.This Odyssean coming-of-age is narrated by Theo Decker. At 13 Theo lives alone with his mother after his father, a temperamental alcoholic, decided to take up and leave New York. After Theo gets in trouble at his school he and his mother are required to attend a ‘conference’. On the way there, the two end up in a museum, for what should have been a quick gander. When a bomb explodes in the museum many die, including Theo’s mother. Once Theo awakes from the explosion he comes across a dying old man who urges him to take Carel Fabritius's ‘The Goldfinch’. Theo, probably suffering from a head concussion & shock, does as he’s bid, takes the painting.“The painting had made me feel less mortal, less ordinary. It was support and vindication; it was sustenance and sum. It was the keystone that had held the whole cathedral up.”When Theo is informed of his mother’s death he’s devastated. He has no idea where his deadbeat father is and his grandparents have made it clear that they aren’t keen on having him stay with them. Theo is temporarily placed in the custody of his childhood friend's family, the Barbours, a hideously wealthy family. Later on, his father re-emerges and whisks away from New York to Las Vegas. Here Theo is left very much to his own devices, his father—who is clearly involved in some dodgy stuff—and his girlfriend do not seem particularly fond or interested in him and his upbringing. Theo becomes friends with Boris who, like him, does not have a stable home life. Together the two experiment with alcohol and drugs and commit petty crimes.We follow Theo until his late-teens and then we encounter him again as a young(ish) adult who becomes entangled in some dangerous business that force him to fully confront the kind of person that he has become.What to say? My heart went out to Theo. Yes, later in life he’s a bit of an asshole. That doesn’t cancel out all of his other qualities and complexities. Those sections recounting his boyhood are truly heartbreaking. The despair he feels at his mother’s death, the guilt, grief, longing, self-hatred, and loneliness that seem to punctuate his days are captured with exacting precision. His meditations on life, art, the people around him are striking, and I appreciated how nuanced a person he was. His relationship with Boris was one of the highlights of his narrative. It is incredible just how good Tartt is at making you care for people who are just not that nice. The dynamic between Theo and Boris is intense and messy (possibly more than a friendship?) and despite their different temperaments their similar circumstances and self-destructive tendencies fortify their bond (they are definitely good at enabling each other).His mother’s death haunts Theo throughout his life, and we see just how his survivor’s guilt affects and influences him. To Theo, the painting of ‘The Goldfinch’ is irrevocably connected to her death, which is why he’s unable to part ways with it. He's also hopelessly enamoured with Pippa, who he first glimpsed in the museum on that fateful day. She's one of the few people who understands the guilt that plagues him so. Alas, he comes to idealise in a not so healthy way.His story is filled with stops-and-starts, addiction and suicidal ideation & tendencies punctuate his life, and as an adult, he seems already to have taken a dubious path.I loved this novel. Tartt’s writing is divine. Her prose is simultaneously elegant and exhilarating, her characterization, dialogues, descriptions, are all truly exemplary. She brings to life the people, places, and situations she writes of in a way that is almost too real, so that when forces outside of my control (the end of my lunch break or commute.) put an end to my reading time, well, it felt like a rude awakening.As I said, this novel is long. A brick some would say (the hardback edition could seriously injure someone). Yet, I breezed through this. Not because it was easy reading, quite the contrary. Tartt’s erudite references and elaborate storytelling deserve attention and consideration, one cannot just rush their way through her books. And yet, I had a hard time putting this book down. Theo’s voice won me over so that I too found myself mirroring whatever he was feeling (usually sadness and or anxiety, yay). I didn’t want to let go of him, and I was actually sad once I reached the novel’s conclusion.While Tartt doesn’t go light on her characters, I could tell just how much she cares for them. The people inhabiting her novels may not necessarily be good or kind but by the end, I always end up loving them (despite or because of their many many flaws). Even characters I want to hate with the whole of my being are not wholly unredeemable.Tartt’s incisive reflections on human nature, life, grief, love, fate, art, death, struck me for their poignancy and thoughtfulness. The rich cast of characters is just as deserving of attention as Theo himself. Regardless of the part, they play in Theo's life, whether they are a friend, acquaintance, or a complete stranger, they are depicted in such vivid detail that they do not feel like fictional characters but real people.And Theo, ragazzo mio! On the one hand, many of his feelings, states of mind, motivations, fears & desires are rendered with clarity, on the other, well, the boy is not only traumatised but incredibly repressed and prone to self-deception. So, there are many moments when we cannot trust entirely his narration. His alcohol consumption and drug use also add a murky quality to certain events or portions of his story. Theo's intentional and unintentional untrustworthiness, in many ways, added an element of ambiguity to his narration and has us relying, more often than not, on other characters in order to discern the truth about certain people/events.I was captivated by Theo's story, the many lows and few highs of his adolescence and adulthood, and by the motifs dotting his narrative. The novel is also full of juxtaposition: the classic vs modern references, the bustling streets of New York, always buzzing with activity, vs the desolate landscapes of Las Vegas, the Barbours' apartment with Theo's father house. Like TSH, one of the novel's main concerns is beauty (the power that beautiful things have on us, the way we feel about that which is beautiful to us, the things we are willing to do for beauty or to have what we think beautiful). Beautiful, moving, wonderfully chaotic, a work of art. The Goldfinch is all of these things and so much more.ps: curiously enough the first time I read it I only gave it 3 stars...and I can’t really explain why this time around I loved it so much that even days later I find myself thinking about Theo & Boris.
1909829019	Truly, a strange and beautiful journey.. and a new lifetime favorite.Leaving this here to remind me that I should sit down and write a proper review for what still is one of my favorite books!
3606441982	I read an article a few months ago on Hierocles' idea of human relationships - he suggests that they are patterned on a series of concentric circles, like a succession of Russian nesting dolls and we occupy the innermost circle. Our challenge is to draw these circles closer together and I saw this marvelously unfolding in The Goldfinch, although sometimes, the innermost circle that Theo occupied shrunk hopelessly until he was but a dot, mourning, grieving and lonely. But the link between him and reality - the painting, The Goldfinch always drew him out, expanding his own worldview and giving him a taste of an immortal life.When I looked at the painting I felt the same convergence on a single point: a flickering sun-struck instant that existed now and forever. Only occasionally did I notice the chain on the finch’s ankle, or think what a cruel life for a little living creature—fluttering briefly, forced always to land in the same hopeless place.While the book beautifully deals with several themes - love, loss, addiction, art, immortality, grief, depression and life itself, what will stay with me for years to come is what I love the most in Virginia Woolf's novels - the scope of history, the simultaneous grandeur and decay of time, the sense of it passing irretrievably, the odd, cold feeling that sometimes washes over us on lonely nights, that we try so hard to thwart - we are but helpless spectators in our own lives.Of course it’s a lot more than that too. Shock and aura. Things are stronger and brighter and I feel on the edge of something inexpressible. Coded messages in the in-flight magazines. Energy Shield. Uncompromising Care. Electricity, colors, radiance. Everything is a signpost pointing to something else. And, lying on my bed in some frigid biscuit-colored hotel room in Nice, with a balcony facing the Promenade des Anglais, I watch the clouds reflected on sliding panes and marvel how even my sadness can make me happy, how wall to wall carpet and fake Biedermeier furniture and a softly murmuring French announcer on Canal Plus can all somehow seem so necessary and right.I’d just as soon forget, but I can’t. It’s kind of the hum of a tuning fork. It’s just there. It’s here with me all the time.When I was eighteen and dealing with a fresh bout of depression in my first year of college, the poem Ode on a Grecian Urn by John Keats was necessary reading material for my English literature paper. "Beauty is truth, truth beauty,—that is all Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know."These lines opened up new, shimmering vistas for my hazy, muddled mind. And yesterday, as I finished The Goldfinch, I returned to these same vistas, only to find them changed - they are now bigger and and more pellucid. Tartt's book is suffused with the idea that by participating in art, even if it is as a mere spectator, we become a part of its transcendental truth, beauty and immortality. And so we live on.
1357800511	This may be more of a 3.5 stars but for now I'm keeping it at 4I FINALLY FINISHED THIS GUYS I DID IT. WHAT A TIME.There were parts I really really loved about this book and parts I didn't really enjoy. I think overall I more loved it than didn't like it.Let's talk about the bad first, shall we? For the most part I really enjoy literary fiction, but sometimes there is a lot of really unnecessary information. This book is an example of that. While I definitely think it should still be a long book because it means more that way with how the story is told, probably 100-200 pages could've been shaved off because there were so many boring parts that were rough to get through and didn't really contribute to the story. When it was good it was FANTASTIC but when it was slow it was ROUGH.Theo was a pretty interesting main character, but he had a bad case of "nice guy" syndrome, especially when it came to Pippa. Quite a bit of entitlement there which just rubbed me the wrong way and made me cringe a lot.NOW FOR DA GOOD STUFF.The writing and story and world building were WONDERFUL. I felt like I was immersed in the story from page one and could see everything happening and imagine it. The writing was really beautiful but still easy to understand, which is not always the case with adult or literary fiction books. LOVEEE.The characters were phenomenal and seeing their journey over the years, especially Theo, was so great.I really enjoyed the story but I don't really want to say a ton about it because I think it's better NOT to know a lot about it going in. Suffice it to say this book is really engaging and the overall plot is so so interesting.And there you have it! I've said my piece. Loved parts of it, really disliked other parts of it. Overall a pretty solid read.
6265417082	⭐️6!!!!! one word: masterpiece
4595835252	⚠️ DONNA TART PUT DRUGS IN THIS BOOK ⚠️
782585281	When I found out that Donna Tartt had written a new book, I was stoked. I loved The Secret History. Alas, this book was a disaster. A rambling, poetically incoherent mess to be exact.First, to all you folks that get huffy about reviews on books only partially read. I don't have to eat a whole meal to know I hate it, one bite makes me want to gag. I don't have to read every page to know I hate a book either.If I had to pick a book that literary snobs would place on their shelves as prime examples of 'quality writing', this would be the book I'd pick.I don't imply that only literature snobs like this book, but I've found they come out in droves to defend this drivel with stellar retorts like "Ugh, obviously you should just read Reader's Digest" or "Weak minded readers with ADD might not like this" or, my favorite "You just don't understand the deeper meaning, you simple-minded fool." Nope, I don't because I'm not digging through 700 pages of nicely written nonsense to find it.Would you like to read 14 pages about the smell and feel of the back seat of a taxi? This book is for you. (it'd be quicker to go flag down a taxi and sniff the seats)Would you like to have an art lecture from a pretentious fictional woman who is making up crap left and right about the 'deeper' meaning of each work of art? This book is for you.Have you ever deeply desired to hear every fleeting thought of a whiny, depressed boy who worries, gripes, and reminisces about nothing. This book is for you!Have you ever wanted to know how to use 65 adjectives to describe an empty hallway? This book is for you!Are you stuck on an abandoned island with only this book or Fifty Shades of Grey to read? This book is for you!!Do you want to read a book that assumes you have ZERO ability to imagine ANYTHING on your own? This book is for you.Below I have written a hasty example of how wordy this book is.The goal of the sentence(which quickly becomes a paragraph): To move our character from the sidewalk to the bridge. Yeah, basic stuff to root the reader in a setting.What you actually get:"The rain poured down from black, heavy clouds. Like Zeus himself was suffering the pains I felt. The slick drops dance on my forehead as I stared into the cloudy,chaotic abyss. Tiny, shimmery, wet tears splashed into the puddles around my worn, (French Brand name of choice), rustic, beloved leather shoes, making ripples like the cosmos. Ahh, the cosmos, so vast, so infinite, so lonely. Like the cicadas in the moonlight of my childhood home. Ah, my home, which brings only dark memories of my father. That wretch, now living on house-boat on the Thames, selling yo-yos to passing children. The yo-yo, so symbolic of life and death, yin and yang. It reminds me of the first time I had Chinese food in a small restaurant in Brooklyn. Brooklyn, the smell of hard work and dead leaves. Dead leaves, a subtle reminder of the finite, fragile lives we lead. Everything ends, everything dies, everything is silence. Like the silence of the bridge, which I head to. I see a bird, a dove, like the ones in [some old painting] . . . "Are you getting irritated yet!! I am and I'm writing it!EDIT: I read the link from the comments section and, sorry Miss Huffing Post, I still think the book sucks. "Expectation, that is the true soul of art." What I expected and what I got didn't play well.
2190583255	The Great Mistress of the DWAIMQ (the Dark and Wonderful Art of Inserting Magic into the Quotidian) strikes again!I'm both in love with this author and irritated. And fascinated. And excercising my awesome eyeroll. And wanting moar of this literate toffee goodness... Her style is the next best Enigma since the original Enigma. All's well as long as Tartt has enough paper around to write her endless books about world and love and meaning and feelings and descriptions of descriptions and meandering plots and every other fanciful stuff that she absolutely has to stuff into every book of hers! I'm kidding here, mostly.As is plenty usual for the Great and Awesome Madam Tartt, this book straddles the fine line between graphomania pseudovulgaris and instaclassics of the higher style. The ones one can fall in love with and never ever part. Never again.Excellent that I adore her style, even for its hyperwordiness. I love words, her words and worlds, especially meaningful ones. Since some of the stuff she writes seems to have been written just for the hell of it and out of necessity to use some more paper. And Tartt... she manages to include pretty much every shade of anything into her books. Paradoxically, to awesome effect! I've no idea just how she manages to pull it off. Must be that quite a lot of advanced Charms went into this text. You know, to get that pesky, frisky reader spellbound, deskbound, bookbound. I can just imagine the monologue: 'You won't be allowed to get back to your life, your business, your anything untill you finish your reading! Mwa-ha-ha!'Yes, there are many points of this book that are weaker than they probably should be but who am I kidding? I looooooved this novel and I totally can slide the points that I didn't care about.Review to be continued. RTF, TBD, bye. I'll be back for more of this rereadworthy goodiness junk!
2228769811	DNF at 300 pagesI'm officially calling it quits on this book and I'm so disappointed. I wanted to love this book, I included it in my 5-star predictions video, that's how much I thought I was going to love it. I gave this book several tries, I read 300 pages of it and I just can't do it anymore. I'm bored out of my mind. This story follows a young boy named Theo who becomes an orphan suddenly and his life gets completely thrown off it's course because of it. The book started off interesting enough, with the dramatic scenes of how Theo became an orphan. Then, after the 100 page mark this book falls into this sluggish drag and it becomes the kind of book that will take twenty pages to describe the most mundane details about everything that you don't give a shit about.Even though this book relies on you to feel something for Theo, I didn't care about his character. I don't know why, I just never connected to his character. All of the characters in this book feel that way - so distant, like you can't really connect with any of them. By page 300 with all the scenes of him and Boris in Vegas I was so bored out of my mind I decided to stop reading it. Life it too short to finish 700 page books that I am not enjoying. So there's that, I'm disappointed. I guess Donna Tartt books are just not my thing.
1814660668	“I had the epiphany that laughter was light, and light was laughter, and that this was the secret of the universe.”― Donna Tartt, The GoldfinchRead and reviewed years ago.......Edited.Worth its weight in Gold.Why does this book not even have a straight five star rating? Really?So I got through this book which, as everybody knows is...quite long.It is an extraordinary read. I am always saying not to judge another person for what they may or may not like but I have to admit I broke my own rule. Many One star ratings on here? I was surprised.I loved it, all 700 pages plus..what a long read! Beautiful, amazing, and so complex.Theo is am amazingly drawn character and so complex. It is hard not to adore him. He is lonely and alone and in search of redemption and he is oh so lovable. Gold Finch was exquisite.I read A secret History shortly afterward and while it was OK I really think this is her masterpiece. I am very glad she won the Pulitzer because if any book deserves it, it is this one.I have not seen the film version yet but it is on my radar. If you have not read this yet, clear your schedule and five in. It's some beautiful stuff. Five Golden stars.
