4946716695	‘Without translation, I would be limited to the borders of my own country,’ wrote the great Italian author Italo Calvino and when ‘words travel the world,’ as translator Anna Rusconi says ‘translators do the driving.’ So what happens when these hands are behind the wheel of a war machine, what responsibility does one bear when translation serves the aims of imperialism and becomes a weapon? R.F. Kuang’s Babel: Or the Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators' Revolution is a fascinating and frightening dive into the world of translation to examine the politics of language in a world of empire and warfare, transitioning the history of the British Empire and the Opium Wars into a fantasy world just adjacent to reality where the act of translation can quite literally ‘make magic with words.’ Set in a magical-realism version of 19th century Oxford University, the Royal Institute of Translation—dubbed Babel—has offered advanced study otherwise denied to people of color and women, but is this an attempt an true inclusivity or a form of tokenism masking a more sinister intent to turn students into weapons against their own ethnic cultures? Babel moves swiftly despite its length, with characters wading through aggressive racism and gatekeeping as they must confront issues of their own complicity. A highly quotable book constructed out of sharp criticisms against colonialism and empire and propelled by a tense, dark academia atmosphere populated by an excellent cast of characters caught in moral conundrums between culture, duty, Babel is as exciting as it is enlightening and an excellent read.‘Translation in it's essence, is always an act of betrayal.’I recently had the pleasure to attend a talk by R.F. Kuang here in west Michigan and found her to be so inspiring, well spoken, and incredible intellectual. I was reminded of Babel, a book I read when it first came out and—admittedly—stalled out with on the first go but eventually finished and left shamefully unreviewed. But in that time I’ve found this book was always close to my mind and its themes on translation and empire cut right to my heart. I love language, I love linguistics, and I love translation theory and Kuang brings all these to the forefront in extraordinary fashion. As if in keeping with the themes of language as a political act, it was recently revealed that Babel, along with Xiran Jay Zhao’s novel Iron Widow, were declared ineligible for the 2023 Hugo award being held in Chengdu, China. Both authors had immigrated from China at a young age and it is theorized their disqualification came due to the critical approach the books take on Chinese history. Babel has, however, been winner of both the Nebula and Locus awards.During her talk, however, she brought up the recent Harper Collins strike, which allowed her to touch upon some of the themes here in Babel. Kuang was a very public face in the strike and explained that she wanted to be seen in order to shake-up the publisher’s narrative that they were committed to diversity by pointing out their publication of Babel, and act she says was more an act of tokenism than genuine efforts for inclusivity that turns identity into a capitalist commodity and marketing pitch (an idea central to her next novel, Yellowface). Characters such as Robin Swift—the Chinese-born boy brought to England by a wealthy, white professor after Robin’s mother dies and becomes our focal character—have to contend with the realization their inclusion in Babel is a tokenism that allows their knowledge of their first language to be used against their native countries. The tension between the pride of their position and duty to translation and their complicity in violence makes for quite the emotional chaos.‘He hated this place. He loved it. He resented how it treated him. He still wanted to be a part of it – because it felt so good to be a part of it, to speak to its professors as an intellectual equal, to be in on the great game.’Characters such as Robin, Ramy and Victoire are caught in what author Emma Dabiri describes in her book What White People Can Do Next: From Allyship to Coalition as marginalized people finding access to positions of power is less actual freedom but more like being granted access to the 'top deck of the slave ship.' The idea is that the system itself is the problem and Dabiri asks ‘do we want to get on the top deck or do we want to destroy the goddam ship?’ This question becomes central to the character's struggles in Babel. Do they remain loyal to their post, enjoy the access to power theyd normally be denied and avert their eyes from the suffering caused by their work? Or do they burn it all down? The way most of the war and greater struggles happen off-page bolsters the effect of being able to just look away. Kuang reminds the reader in this way how often we are aware of great suffering and bloodshed and remain in the comfort of our own lives. It is similar to what poet Ilya Kaminsky is calling our attention to in his poem We Lived Happily During the War (read it in full HERE) of protesting 'but not enough' and being comfortable all the while. It concludes with these lines:'in the street of money in the city of money in the country of money,our great country of money, we (forgive us)lived happily during the war.'-Ilya KaminskyI may be getting ahead of myself here. For context, the rather interesting and well-crafted magic system of the novel is based on language and translation being used in conjunction with silver bars. The alchemic properties of translation have made Oxford a major player in the strengthening of the British Empire into a global powerhouse, using Eastern speakers to help exploit countries of their resources. The facade of open trade and ethical translation erodes when Robin meets his half-brother, another half-chinese boy fathered by the same professor in order to train him for magical translation, who is now part of a rebellion against Babel and Britain. ‘How strange,’ said Ramy. ‘To love the stuff and the language, but to hate the country.’As the veil lifts and Robin is aware of their complicity in evils and violence perpetuated by the empire, Kuang is able to examine issues of translation and language as well as the way language is manipulated to hinder rebellion and revolution. English author Anthony Burgess wrote that ‘translation is not a matter of words only: it is a matter of making intelligible a whole culture,’ and we see how the use of translation in Babel is an attempt to infiltrate, exploit and colonize culture because language unlocks a culture:‘Words tell stories. Specifically, the history of those words - how they came into use, and how their meaning morphed into what they mean today - tell us just as much about a people, if not more, than any other kind of historical artefact.’What is fascinating about language, particularly the language of colonizing countries, is that it borrows, steals and colonizes language itself. All language is inherently political, especially under imperialism. Look at authors such as Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o who was imprisoned for writing in his native language, or how colonization has erased indigenous languages completely, or the politicization around the Irish Gaeilge in connection with the rebellion against Britain. This fascinates Robin:‘English did not just borrow words from other languages; it was stuffed to the brim with foreign influences, a Frankenstein vernacular. And Robin found it incredible, how this country, whose citizens prided themselves so much on being better than the rest of the world, could not make it through an afternoon tea without borrowed goods.’But this also becomes his glimpse into the powers of colonialism. He also begins to discover how his place in Babel make his desire to resist be framed as a terrible betrayal, and how language is used to turn those fighting for freedom into “terrorists” in the eyes of the general public.‘This is how colonialism works. It convinces us that the fallout from resistance is entirely our fault, that the immoral choice is resistance itself rather than the circumstances that demanded it.’Author and essayist Rebecca Solnit wrote that ‘the revolt against brutality begins with a revolt against the language that hides that brutality,’ and we see how much translation and language are brought to task here. Not only translation from one language to another but the translation of propaganda into simple terms that expose the horrors and oppressions. ‘She learned revolution is, in fact, always unimaginable. It shatters the world you know. The future is unwritten, brimming with potential. The colonizers have no idea what is coming, and that makes them panic. It terrifies them.’The novel also confronts very bold and blunt racism and gatekeeping. While the villains are occasionally slipping towards comic-book level flat villany, Kuang (who’s time at Oxford inspired this book) presents it in such an aggressive way to get across how racism feels to those experiencing it. We see this in modern day when those who don’t experience, say, racism or misogyny on a daily basis can’t even comprehend it and often disbelieve those who say it is a huge problem. We see this especially with Letty who, despite being in the friend group, is unable to understand the way her friends feel. She dismisses things, tries to justify, and it is because she simply cannot fathom it. It all reminds me of a good friend I had who, during his time in college, was involved in campus activism. He frequently talked about how, as a queer, non-white student in an almost entirely white christian campus, no matter what he said or did, people would criticize him as “being too political” to almost absurd levels that simply voicing any opinion was construed as some radical political attempt. He was told by an administrator that his presence made people uneasy because he “fit a type,” as a horribly racist statement that dark-skinned men with strong opinions are somehow inherently violent. We see that here in how all these characters are shoehorned into being political statements instead of human beings in the eyes of everyone around them. ‘That's just what translation is, I think. That's all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they're trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands.’There are times, however, where the book can feel a bit heavy handed, but it is also a rather engaging read that does drive home a lot of really valuable points. I liked the character dynamics and how it utilized rather familiar dark academia tropes and friend groups (the primary three feel like a subversion of the Harry Potter friends in many ways) in ways the furthered its thematic statements. I also enjoyed the use of footnotes even if some felt overly explain-y to ensure you didn’t miss an allusion. I’m sure the historical details can be critiqued for days but truthfully, I’m just here for a good story and the fantasy setting bypasses a lot of that for me. It all moves to a very explosive ending and whew… this is quite a ride.Photo: The four main students, as depicted on the promo bookmarks.Babel is a sharp book with a lot of energy, action and ideas and Kuang is such a delightful writer that makes this quite an event. I love the look at language and translation theories and how this informs the larger plot, I love the critiques of colonialism and capitalism, I love the characters and I’ve enjoyed how much this book stuck with me the past two years. Imperfect but ultimately enjoyable, Babel is a real treat.4.5/5‘History isn’t a pre-made tapestry that we’ve got to suffer, a closed world with no exit. We can form it. Make it.’Having enjoyed this, I had to go visit Oxford. The library is close enough to the translation tower, right?
5019865521	“Babel, Or the Necessity of Trauma Porn”I can talk about the many problems I had with this book in terms of its length, its structure, its utterly paper-thin characters, and how goddamned condescending it is, and you can find that discussion below. But I feel that I should start with the part of this book that broke me.There’s a concept often floated around when people talk about how to portray bigotry and prejudice in fiction, and it’s the concept that in portraying racist (or queerphobic, ableist, etc.) violence, authors should take care not to do so in a way that is traumatic to the audience who might share that identity. Otherwise, such a portrayal begins to feel like trauma porn for the majority, not an empowering or cathartic narrative for the marginalized.Babel feels like trauma porn. It is an unceasing stream of racism and racist violence against its characters of color.Kuang’s commitment to showing racism is so intense that she even throws consistency out the window for the sake of it. In one chapter, Robin is described as having the same eye shape as his white father. In literally the next chapter, he’s made fun of for having narrow East Asian eyes.Kuang. What is the truth here? They can’t both be correct.I’m 100% sure the rejoinder here would be “well, the racism is historically accurate.” I haven’t studied this time period, so I’m not going to engage in any discussions about historical accuracy. But I will point out that “historical accuracy” is not an unassailable argument because historical accounts are never neutral, because the writer chose what to record and what to omit. And—aside from the fact that this book is historical fantasy, anyways—any work of fiction is composed of a series of intentional choices on the part of the author.(Tangentially, I would also like to point out that RF Kuang has no experiences with anti-Blackness or the racism a brown Indian Muslim would face, so I’m not sure what gives her the confidence to delve so deeply into those descriptions.)So I ask: What is the purpose of this book? The people who don’t understand that Racism Is Bad are not going to be reading this book. The people who already agree that racism and colonization are bad are just going to have this message beaten into their heads by RF Kuang’s literary equivalent of a sledgehammer, because RF Kuang treats her audience as idiots who are incapable of understanding anything for themselves.I’m speaking as an Asian American who does not usually consider anti-Asian racism a personal trigger. I’m speaking as someone who has loved plenty of books that have racism as their central theme: Ace of Spades by Faridah Abike-Iyimide, Legendborn by Tracy Deonn, Disorientation by Elaine Hsieh Chou.But I found Babel simply too exhausting and too depressing to read past the 55% mark. After reading “Chinese people are inherently dirty and lazy and inferior” for the dozenth time, I did not feel enlightened or filled with righteous anger against anti-Asian racism.I felt that RF Kuang had done the literary equivalent of beating me black and blue with a hammer, and I gave up, because my mental health is worth far more than this book.*I have plenty of criticisms of Babel on a craft level, enough that I’m honestly astonished that it has been so well received when it, in many ways, feels like a massive step back from The Poppy War trilogy.Longer is not always better; or, the pacing of this book was all over the place and the characters are flatter than paper cutouts.Fantasy authors who have just written their first book are discouraged from throwing every single cool idea they have into one manuscript and ending up with a 200K+ word behemoth that they swear they cannot cut down. “Kill your darlings,” and all that. But despite not being a debut, Babel feels so excessively long and self-indulgent. It felt like Kuang showing off every 1830s reference she could possibly cram into the book to shove her research in the reader’s face. Kuang crams in references to historical events and narrates them with the style of the driest history textbook imaginable. This book was just so exhausting, not just to read, but even to listen to on audiobook (despite the narrator’s fantastic performance).Simultaneously, none of the length is spent on what actually matters. The characters are so one-dimensional, as if they mainly exist as canvases for racist violence to be done to them (or for spouting racism, in the case of Letty). Robin doesn’t have any emotional reaction to meeting another Chinese person for the first time in six years—someone who is also his family member—for example.In general, I don’t understand why Robin Swift was the protagonist of this book. He had virtually no personality; he feels more like a puppet than a real person. The motivations he has for going either with or against the Hermes Society (the group that is opposed to Babel and the British Empire) feel so incredibly weak. He is never given the opportunity to come to the conclusion that Babel is bad on his own; no, he has to be told, after a mere one day at Oxford, by the Hermes Society that Babel is evil and therefore Robin should join the rebellion. In her haste to make sure the readers all know Racism And Colonization Are Bad, RF Kuang robs Robin of the ability to drive the plot of this book. Instead, he’s swept along by the convictions of others, and his character suffers as a result.This same creative choice also destroys what seemed to be RF Kuang’s original intention: trying to portray academia as an alluring, magical world that students want to be a part of, only to eventually realize its rotten underpinnings. Robin doesn’t have any time to fall in love with Oxford after a single day (no, I’m not counting the three or so days he spent with Ramy before classes started, because you can’t love academia if you haven’t even taken a single class?) before the Hermes Society comes along and tells him Babel Is Evil.A more compelling narrative choice would have been to have the Hermes Society prompt Robin to investigate Babel and come to the realization himself that the institution he loves is supported by colonization and racism—which also would have given Robin some sorely needed agency and character development. Not to mention it would have added tension and propulsion to the plot, which often feels like it’s plodding along without anything to move it forward other than Robin’s need to graduate, until the Hermes Society pops up again at random. As it is, there is so little tension in this book; RF Kuang never withholds information when she has the chance to remind us that Racism Is Bad.Speaking of Robin, I’m not convinced his representation as a biracial person is all that good. This isn’t my lane, so I don’t want to harp on it too much (and would welcome ownvoices perspectives), but it didn’t strike me as plausible that he could pass both for a white person and for a non-biracial Chinese person.There’s a reason “show don’t tell” is taught to amateur writers; or, the book treats readers as idiots.I absolutely could not stand how condescending RF Kuang was in this book.From her author’s note at the start, I had a bad feeling. It comes off as aggressive, “don’t you dare question my portrayal of Oxford.” And look, if it had been written as a neutral explanation instead of a manifesto—“Here are the places I deviated from exact history and these are my reasons why”—it would have been fine. Interesting, even.But as it is, it really sets the tone for the rest of the book.There is so. Much. Telling. Kuang doesn’t trust any of her readers to understand what she’s saying; no, she has to follow up with an explicit explanation that This Is Bad. Imagine a movie adaptation of this book showing Robin physically beaten by his guardian and then immediately having a voice-over explaining that this behavior was Abusive And Bad. That’s exactly what RF Kuang does with narration.Because apparently we are all idiots, since none of us have two master’s degrees and a PhD from Yale.(I also have to point out that RF Kuang explaining that she wanted to portray oysters as delicacies in Babel, despite that being historically inaccurate, simply because oysters were a delicacy to her when she was as Oxford, not only smacks of the highest degree of self-centeredness but also makes me question her integrity as a historian. The interesting part about writing historical fiction is trying to understand what is the same and what is different from the modern day, not assuming people lived the same way back then as they do now.)RF Kuang wants us to believe that Robin loves his cohort (Ramy, Letty, and Victoire), but she just tells us this instead of showing us. The “found family” aspect felt incredibly weak, especially since Letty feels like a stock “racist white girl” stand-in. I could not buy the idea that the four of them viewed each other as family when three of them are people of color and Letty kept saying racist things to the rest of them. I nearly laughed at the part where Letty was supposed to be in love with Ramy, the brown Indian Muslim man who is constantly mad at her for saying things like the British had the right to be in India.Speaking of romance, at least in the first 55% of this book, Robin and Ramy’s relationship is so weak, with absolutely zero chemistry, that I would flat-out forget that Robin and Ramy were anything other than classmates for a hundred pages at a time until the book hit me over the head with a scene in neon lights telling me “these two have Romantic Feelings for each other!” I don’t know if it improves later on, but I am disinclined to ever read a romance by RF Kuang when this one was so poorly written. (And I feel the need to point out that this isn’t the first time RF Kuang has shoved a poorly written gay romance into her books.)(I am once again begging people who are looking for queer romances to read the plenty of queer genre romances, in either traditional or indie publishing.)To quote another review—fuck the footnotes. They were either pieces of information that were critical to the story and therefore should not have even been footnotes, or extraneous pieces of backstory that should have been cut but RF Kuang just could not help herself from making this book as long as possible, or condescending “IN CASE YOU DIDN’T REALIZE, THIS PERSON IS RACIST” diatribes. RF Kuang writes as though she thinks her readers are children who can’t tell that she’s writing purposefully racist dialogue so she needs a footnote to explain.And yet, despite Kuang hammering in most of her messages with a sledgehammer to the reader’s skull, her portrayal of Letty is weirdly ambiguous. Despite the fact that Letty often says racist things (see: her opinion on the British in India above), her friends, who are all people of color, frequently defend her, so…what is the intent here?(I was especially dying when Victoire claimed solidarity with Letty because they were both women, while talking to Ramy, a brown man, and Robin. As if the misogyny experienced by white versus Black women is anything alike. I’m sorry, but why has no one commented on this?)Superficial complexity, underlying plot holes; or, parts of the plot feels like it came out of a YA dystopian story.The most compelling part of the book, for me, was the fantasy element. Even then, there is a huge plot hole in the story. If silverworking only works for people who can “dream” in multiple languages, (view spoiler)[you cannot convince me that both Professor Lovell and Professor Chakravarty, who learned Mandarin as a second language, are capable of dreaming in Mandarin when Griffin (Robin’s half-brother) can’t? If they could both learn Mandarin and become fluent enough to dream in it, why couldn’t they train Griffin to do the same? This is never explained. (hide spoiler)]But the part that killed me the most was everything having to do with the Hermes Society.I cannot get over Robin being told that the Hermes Society has to be so careful because they’ll get tortured to death if Babel ever catches them, blah blah blah, while at the same time Hermes is hiring the literal worst candidates to help them. Robin and his friends cannot lie to save their lives and get caught stealing from Babel, not once, but multiple times. And yet the Hermes Society was so keen to recruit them?At one point, Robin tells the Hermes Society he’s concerned that Babel’s security measures have been upgraded. Guess how they respond?A) “Oh damn, guess we’re going to have to reassess our plan since none of us want to get caught and tortured to death, like we told you we were afraid of before!”B) “Whatever. Everything will be fine. You’re being overly paranoid, Robin.”If you chose B, you were correct.I’m just. I’m lying on the floor here, staring at the ceiling and questioning my entire view of reality if this is the Adult fantasy that’s being called a “masterpiece.” I’ve seen far less ridiculous Adult fantasy books get ripped to shreds for being “too YA,” yet somehow Babel isn’t?ConclusionI tried, I really did, to reach the ending of this book, because I saw some spoilers in other reviews that I wanted to be able to discuss myself. (view spoiler)[I don’t agree that translation is inherently an act of violence. And I would have had plenty to say about most of the characters of color dying in the end, including the two queer men of color. (hide spoiler)]But I couldn’t. Because it’s not worth wasting any more of my time on this.As a work of fiction, Babel lacks a compelling narrative due to its poor pacing and unbelievably flat characters. As a work of history, Babel cannot be considered as even an attempt at objectivity. Not when the text and the footnotes feel, as others have pointed out, like RF Kuang is breathing down your neck, telling you exactly what you’re supposed to think about the book instead of being a professor guiding students to form their own conclusions. (And because I have no chill anymore about this book, I’d like to state for the record that there is at least one instance of RF Kuang misconstruing real historical events in order to suit her narrative.)Do you know how much it takes to cancel an author for me personally? An author has to be a TERF or a racist or a queerphobe, basically.And yet, I never want to read an RF Kuang book again.If I wanted to be lectured at, I would go back to college/grad school. Except even most of my professors from law school didn’t treat their students like idiots who were incapable of understanding what they had to say.*mic drop**Edit 9/22/25: I'm not interested in revisiting this book, but I recently came across this review which makes some excellent points regarding how weird it is to make Robin speak Mandarin when he grew up in Guangzhou (Canton) in the early 1800s, and the fact that using pinyin is anachronistic for this time period (lol).One point that I didn't make in my initial review (because I had too many other issues to discuss) was the whole concept of a magic system based on losing meaning in translation was actually extremely poorly executed in Babel. Chinese is one of the best languages to explore this, actually, because it is extremely difficult to translate Chinese into English and meaning is often lost, either because of untranslatable concepts (the complex system of pronouns and honorifics in old Chinese is quite challenging to capture in English because English does not convey formality the same way), or because Chinese is much more poetic and succinct than English (one example: "山河万里" is accurately translated as "in this vast land" or "in this world," but on a literal level the characters mean "mountains," "rivers," and "ten thousand miles," and so convey much more poetry than the English translation does). But RF Kuang only discusses how to translate single, discrete words, rather than sentences, idioms, or cultural norms embedded in language. Honestly, I expected more from someone who is a professional translator, FFS.
3982817261	ARC was provided by the publisher—Harper Voyager—in exchange for an honest review.Babel was absolutely impressive, ambitious, and intelligently crafted. As unbelievable as it sounds, R.F. Kuang has triumphed over The Poppy War Trilogy—which I loved so much—with this one book. “Language was always the companion of empire, and as such, together they begin, grow, and flourish. And later, together, they fall.” Babel, or the Necessity of Violence: an Arcane History of Oxford Translators’ Revolution is Kuang’s newest novel. And unlike The Poppy War Trilogy, which I consider a grimdark fantasy series, Babel is a standalone dark academia novel. Also, because this is the longest book title I’ve ever witnessed, to make this review more digestible, I’m going to call the book simply Babel. Babel was—and still is, until August—my most anticipated release of the year. The cover art by Nico Delort looks spectacular, and I think many of you know that I am a fan of The Poppy War Trilogy. I am proud to say that I was one of the first reviewers for Kuang’s debut, The Poppy War, and I mentioned in my review of The Poppy War that Kuang will be one of the queens of modern fantasy. The Dragon Republic and The Burning God proved that notion. And with Babel, Kuang proved, once again, that she is indeed one of the best fantasy authors to appear within the past five years. “‘But that’s the beauty of learning a new language. It should feel like an enormous undertaking. It ought to intimidate you. It makes you appreciate the complexity of the ones you know already.’” The story in Babel is told almost exclusively from the perspective of Robin Swift. In 1828, Robin Swift lost his last surviving family due to cholera, and he was then brought to London by the mysterious Professor Lovell. Professor Lovell brought Robin to train him in Latin, Ancient Greek, and Chinese—even though Chinese is his first language—in preparation for the day he'll enroll in Oxford University's prestigious Royal Institute of Translation, also known as Babel. Babel is the world's center of translation and, more importantly, of silver-working: the art of manifesting the meaning lost in translation through enchanted silver bars to magical effect. Silver-working has made the British Empire unparalleled in power, and Babel's research in foreign languages serves the Empire's quest to colonize everything it encounters. Oxford, the city of dreaming spires, feels like a fairytale for Robin. It is a utopia dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge, and knowledge means power. But for Robin, a Chinese boy raised in Britain, this means inevitably betraying his motherland. Robin has to decide whether he should continue to pursue knowledge and stay in Babel, or will he choose to side with the shadowy Hermes Society, an organization dedicated to sabotaging the silver-working, which in essence, defies Babel. "Languages are easier to forget than you imagine… Once you stop living in the world of Chinese, you stop thinking in Chinese… Words and phrases you think are carved into your bones can disappear in no time.’ The passage above speaks the truth. For those of you who don't know, Indonesia is my first language, Chinese (Mandarin) is my second, and English is my third language. Due to my lack of usage of the Chinese language, it honestly felt like English has transformed into my second language. As you can probably guess from the title and premise of Babel, colonialism, racism, languages, translations, identities, necessities of violence, and finding a place to belong are some of the heaviest themes of Babel. Regardless of whether you love The Poppy War Trilogy or Babel more, I am filled with confidence in saying that Kuang has outdone herself with this novel. "Translation, from time immemorial, has been the facilitator of peace. Translation makes possible communication, which in turn makes possible the kind of diplomacy, trade, and cooperation between foreign peoples that brings wealth and prosperity to all." There is a LOT to unpack in this standalone novel. Each of the themes I mentioned earlier was discussed with ruthless exploration. And I believe that any reader reading Babel could actually use the novel to write their own dissertation on one—or more—of the chosen themes. It felt crystal clear that Kuang has done a myriad of research, and she put them all on the pages of Babel. As a reader who speaks multiple languages, I've been reading, writing, thinking, or speaking in two or three languages every day. It won't come as a surprise that I have an interest in linguistics, etymology, and translation. And Babel has them all. Done in a meticulous and addictive fashion, taking place in an alternative historical fantasy setting, Babel never cease to raise thought-provoking questions and discuss important issues with its readers. "Betrayal. Translation means doing violence upon the original, means warping and distorting it for foreign, unintended eyes. So then where does that leave us? How can we conclude, except by acknowledging that an act of translation is then necessarily always an act of betrayal?" What if the city of dreaming spires is, in reality, a tower leading them to an inevitable nightmare through the illusion of grandeur and greatness? Babel is not as grim as The Poppy War Trilogy. It also has a comparatively more likable main character, which I'll get into soon. And these elements made the events and development in Babel more relatable. Look, I could talk about the plot all day long if I want to. But it is quite frankly impossible to discuss in more detail what made the themes executed in Babel so cleverly done without going into spoiler territory. The book isn't out yet for more than two months, and I prefer leaving the best of the plot in Babel to future readers to find out for themselves. Instead, I will now proceed to elaborate upon the characters of Babel and their characterizations. "In the years to come, Robin would return so many times to this night. He was forever astonished by its mysterious alchemy, by how easily two badly socialized, restrictively raised strangers had transformed into kindred spirits in the span of minutes." One of the most magnificent things about Babel is its characterizations, especially for Robin Swift. In one book, less than 700 pages long, Kuang managed to meticulously introduce and develop Robin Swift. His character development and story arc felt immense. Seriously, by the end of the novel, try to look back to the beginning of the novel, and you will see how far Robin Swift has changed. Plus, his character development never felt forced. His grief, rage, dilemma, struggles, kindness, and relatively brief moments of happiness felt so genuine. And I, several times throughout the novel, truly empathized with him. The numbers of challenges, jealousy, avarice, manipulation, and domination he has to defeat were just staggering. "Only it builds up, doesn’t it? It doesn’t just disappear. And one day you start prodding at what you’ve suppressed. And it’s a mass of black rot, and it’s endless, horrifying, and you can’t look away." Fortunately, Robin was not alone in facing the cruelties pushed upon him. Accompanying him were three supporting characters: Ramy, Letty, and Victoire. This group of friends, these four characters, are individuals with distinct and different personalities, and yet circumstances allowed them to eagerly trust one another without any interrogations. Will they live happily ever after? Well, that's for you to find out. But do know this is a novel by R.F. Kuang, and it is not a spoiler to say Kuang is going to put her characters through physically and mentally crushing pain. As the characters wait for dawn to visit them after a night of explosive discord and conflicts, I waited with bated breath with them. I was so invested in the characters, especially Robin and Victoire, and I consider it a testament to how well-written this book was that, among many other factors, ALL characters in this standalone novel felt so distinctive and compelling. “Babel, his friends, and Oxford– they had unlocked a part of him, a place of sunshine and belonging, that he never thought he’d feel again. The world felt less dark now.” There is also a feeling of satisfaction in reading Kuang's novels from her debut in publication order. Kuang is an author that keeps getting better and better with each new book, and Babel is the author at the top of her game. The narrative has the potential to strike a various range of emotions, and it is delivered mercilessly. One out of many examples, and I'm going to be vague about this, there was a virtuous character who has their kindness tested too far, and we readers get to witness how deadly the malice that kindness can conjure from this. I felt distraught and conflicted by this, in a good way. But at the same time, I also felt sad, and to a level, rewarded by the turn of events. The prose continuously flows well, and the author successfully nailed the character's development. This doesn't mean I fully agree with the character's actions and motivation, but I understood them. The devastations wrought to counter colonialism portrayed were bloody and vicious, and I found the narrative hard to put down. Babel asks its readers whether there is indeed morality and necessity in violence, or is it all an unnecessary and endless deadly cycle with no way out. “Power did not lie in the tip of a pen. Power did not work against its own interests. Power could only be brought to heel by acts of defiance it could not ignore. With brute, unflinching force. With violence.” Lastly, I need to mention that I have never been to Oxford or United Kingdom. In fact, I have never been outside of Asia. It remains one of my goals to visit the UK and other countries outside Asia. This is to say that Babel did not only immerse me in its memorable story, but it made me want to visit London even more. It's such a vividly portrayed novel with incredible world-building and layered histories. Yes, Babel takes place in our world, but adding the magic of silver-making that required memories and the proficiency in languages and translations to the narrative provided a totally brilliant result in enriching the depth and complexities of the world. I seem to now have a newfound extra appreciation for translators, too. Take a look at this passage: "I think translation can be much harder than original composition in many ways. The poet is free to say whatever he likes, you see– he can choose from any number of linguistic tricks in the language he’s composing in. Word choice, word order, sound– they all matter, and without any one of them the whole thing falls apart. That’s why Shelley writes that translating poetry is about as wise as casting a violet into a crucible.† So the translator needs to be translator, literary critic, and poet all at once– he must read the original well enough to understand all the machinery at play, to convey its meaning with as much accuracy as possible, then rearrange the translated meaning into an aesthetically pleasing structure in the target language that, by his judgment, matches the original. The poet runs untrammelled across the meadow. The translator dances in shackles." Isn't that so accurate and profound? I actually highlighted more passages in Babel compared to the entire The Poppy War Trilogy. Babel is one of the finest standalone novels I've read. It is a victory for literature, and its quality is what every other dark academia novel should strive to be. Paying homage to the importance of languages, translations, identity, and ethnicities, Babel is one of the most important works of the year. August 2022 will be a big month for the fantasy genre. Not only Babel is the third novel of the year so far that I rated with a full 5 out of 5 stars rating, but it will also be released in August 2022, just a week after The First Binding by R.R. Virdi, which was the second novel I rated 5 out 5 stars rating this year. With The Poppy War Trilogy and Babel as her bibliography so far, I feel assured already in declaring R.F. Kuang as one of my favorite authors of all time. A marvelous one-off fantasy standalone is frequently difficult to find. Pre-order Babel. You won't regret it. "That’s just what translation is, I think. That’s all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they’re trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands." Where do Babel stand in my best books of the year list? To that, I’ll say: "Mande mwen yon ti kou ankò ma di ou," You can order this book from: Blackwells (Free International shipping)The quotes in this review were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication.You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions | I also have a Booktube channelSpecial thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Andrew, Andrew W, Amanda, Annabeth, Ben, Diana, Dylan, Edward, Elias, Ellen, Ellis, Gary, Hamad, Helen, Jimmy Nutts, Joie, Luis, Lufi, Melinda, Meryl, Mike, Miracle, Neeraja, Nicholas, Reno, Samuel, Sarah, Sarah, Scott, Shawna, Xero, Wendy, Wick, Zoe.
3984211504	The Italian word for disappointment is delusione, from the Latin de-ludus, literally “to make fun of”. Its closest cognate in the English language is delusion, which the Oxford Dictionary defines as “an idiosyncratic belief or impression maintained despite being contradicted by reality”.R. F. Kuang has me stuck in a never-ending cycle of delusion and disappointment. I keep convincing myself that I’m going to love her next book, and she makes fun of me by delivering something that doesn’t remotely match my expectations. Then she publishes a new book, and the cycle repeats.Babel, in particular, seemed like the kind of novel I’ve been wanting to read for years. As a former translator, I was excited to learn more about its language-based magic system. As a reader, I’ve grown increasingly tired with the romanticization of academia and the classism inherent in the dark academia genre. And as someone whose family was deeply affected by European imperialism, I am keenly interested in fiction that discusses this topic.The premise, then, was stellar; the execution, not so much.My first issue was worldbuilding. To create an organic fantasy world, an author should either pick their setting based on how they want magic to work, or pick their magic system based on what makes sense for the setting. Instead, Kuang picked her setting (Victorian England) and her magic system (words translated on silver bars) based on the themes she wanted to tackle, with no apparent consideration for the actual compatibility of the two in real life. The result is a world that looks and works exactly like the real British Empire, even though its magic has nothing to do with the technology the British used.This leads to a number of absurd conclusions that are ultimately detrimental to the book’s message. Historically, the reason Britain invented and developed the technology that led to the Industrial Revolution was that this technology required huge investments, made possible by the exploitation of the colonies. But translating words and engraving them on silver bars doesn’t require any sort of advanced technology.Besides the cost of silver, which we’re told is abundant in the colonies, there are no reasons why any advanced civilization couldn’t develop their own institute of translation. The idea that translation alone is responsible for the technological superiority of the British Empire is ludicrous. Frankly, the only reason someone would come up with that idea is that they idolize translation to a point where they think it could actually be the single most important form of knowledge in human history.Which, considering that Kuang is herself a translator, doesn’t seem like a far-fetched idea.This single-minded obsession with the novel’s themes is also reflected in its characters. All of them are written not as multi-faceted humans, but as spokespeople for a certain perspective the author wants to portray. Robin is a British-Chinese man torn between his two identities; Rami is an anti-colonial activist who hates the Empire; Lettie is a privileged white woman; every British man is a cruel, evil imperialist devoid of humanity.These are not people. They’re allegories.And listen, I can appreciate a good allegory. But these characters aren’t even deep or original stand-ins for the concepts they’re meant to represent. All their political discussions seem to have been taken straight out of Twitter. If you’re on social media and even tangentially interested in postcolonial discourse, I guarantee you’ve heard it all before. Throughout the book I kept wondering, what is it that Kuang is trying to say with these didactic, on-the-nose explanations? That the British Empire was racist? That colonialism is bad? That workers were exploited during the Industrial Revolution? But you don’t need to convince your 21st century readers of this. And those who may still need convincing (bigots) will certainly not be swayed by a book that depicts all English people as evil, chauvinistic imperialists.It doesn’t help that Babel has absolutely no trust in its audience’s ability to pick up subtext or understand its themes on their own. Instead, the author constantly interjects the narration with footnotes that are meant to clarify what is already obvious to anyone with minimal reading comprehension skills. These notes tell us that the racist things racist characters say are, in fact, racist; that Britain’s wealth comes from it being an exploitative colonial empire; that astrology doesn’t actually work; and other things that no human being with a functioning brain would possibly need explaining. These notes are also extradiegetic, meaning that they’re external to the narration: it’s not a fictional character writing them, but the author herself, who is directly addressing her modern readers. This felt very condescending and took me out of the story, causing me to wonder who Kuang thinks she’s writing for, if she envisions her ideal reader as someone who needs to have everything over-explained to them.Until it dawned on me that so much of this book wasn’t written for me, or any other human reader. It was written for Twitter—specifically, an imaginary Twitter user who only exists in Kuang’s head, and whose entire existence revolves around levelling petty, bad faith criticism at her writing. This user gets really riled up about her making up a new building to house the Oxford Institute of Translation, in her fantasy novel about a made up Oxford Institute of Translation. They complain about her obviously racist villains not being condemned enough by the narrative. They get upset about a revolutionary character killing an innocent girl, in a book that is literally titled The Necessity of Violence.Problem is, you can’t write a book for someone like that. First of all, because this person is not real: they’re a mental image conjured by the author’s own anxieties and insecurities. Secondly, because no good art has even come out of a need to pre-emptively defend oneself from baseless accusations. And thirdly, because despite Kuang’s best efforts, it’s impossible to make criticism-proof art.I understand that it can be difficult to shut down the bad faith reader inside your head. Still, authors need to stop writing to convince an imaginary person that they’re morally righteous, and start treating their readers like intelligent adults who can figure things out on their own.Because there is a good story buried in here. If you take away the repetitive, superfluous explanations that bog down the narrative; if you add some complexity and nuance to the characters’ personality; if you give the audience a chance to think for themselves instead of lecturing them; you get an interesting novel that attempts to deconstruct the dark academia genre through the lens of language and translation. And this potential is particularly evident in the last 10% of the book, which ended up adding a star to my final rating. The last few chapters are truly powerful and emotionally resonant, imbued with a raw sincerity the rest of the novel lacks. I just wish it didn’t take me so long to get there.
4762930168	Babel reminded me of the classics and literature I had to study in my school days. Yes, there was a lot of noteworthy ideas and discussions to be had but by god was it a challenge to get through. First off, the person who wrote the marketing tagline, "for fans of The Poppy War" needs to be fired from their job. This is nothing like The Poppy War. The latter was an epic military fantasy war story while the former is an literary fiction-esque urban fantasy. Going into Babel expecting something reminiscent of The Poppy War will just ruin the entire book for you. That being said, even if I had gone in with correct expectations, I doubt my opinions would have changed all that much. Let's start with my first problem: NOTHING HAPPENS IN THIS BOOK. Well, ok, that's not completely true, there is a lot of plot progression and activity in the last 100 or so pages of the book. But the effort needed to get to that point was really taxing. Yes the writing is very pretty. And yes the magic system is incredibly inventive. And yes the atmosphere is enticing but without a strong cohesive narrative tying it all together there's just nothing for me to latch on to. I kept reading and waiting for the plot to go somewhere but ultimately it never did. But a lack of a plot doesn't inherently mean a book is bad right? A lot of people don't mind reading a "no plot, just vibes" book if the characters are compelling. So, are they compelling? Well... The characters (and the world as a whole) just lacked any complexity or depth. I actually laughed when I saw a review that said Babel has "a brilliant presentation of the found family trope". That's completely wrong. These characters are not a found family. A found family indicates a level of trust, rapport, and devotion. Here, the characters keep things from each other, they never listen to one another, and every time we do see them talking to each other it always devolves into an argument. But by far the biggest issue here was Letty. At no point did she feel like a real person. It was SO EVIDENT that she was just a mouthpiece for the author to get her beliefs across. She's a woman which means she has some struggles in academia, but she's white which means she avoids the struggles that non white women face (so you can tell that the author has heard of the word intersectionality). She uses her experiences with sexism to guilt trip others into accepting her demands but also isn't aware of the privilege she has. The narrative CONSTANTLY tells us that she's a racist and an ignoramus but it never actually shows her doing any of these things, which makes it extremely jarring when others accuse her of being bigoted, since there was no build up to it. This is just the gist of the description and not an actual quote, but in one moment she would be described as "someone who makes a few off hand comments here and there but ultimately a kind soul" and then a hundred pages later Victoire and Ramy would be screaming at her about how she was unaware of their struggles with racism. She was also just a weird character in general, at one point she discovers the others have been keeping a HUGE secret from her and I expected there to be some big blowout and argument... But instead she just doesn't say anything and immediately forgives them. If I learned that my close friends we're keeping such a secret from me, I would've said goodbye and broken all contact with them. On a pure narrative level, I can kinda understand Letty's actions and beliefs but I ultimately can't fully appreciate them because it was so evident what the author was trying to do and I couldn't read about her without feeling like R. F. Kuang was breathing down my neck. In fact this is a big issue with all the characters in general, it felt like they were written around a single defining characteristic rather than being given space for something more. Here are all the characters summed up: Robin is the one who struggles with his biracial identity, Ramy is the one who hates the British, Victoire is the one who suffers so we can see the cruelty of colonialism, Letty is the one who's a privileged white woman and Lovell is the one who's a racist AND a hypocrite. They're never given any dimension outside of this one attribute and it just starts to wear you down. With regard to the world, there was, once again, a complete lack of any kind of nuance or complexity. Without (trying to) spoil much, there is a war about to happen between two countries and all the people in the aggressor country are portrayed as evil, heartless, and cruel, while all the people in the victim country are shown as innocent, virtuous, and pure. I'm not saying that all countries are heartless or all countries are good, what I'm saying is that such a simple dichotomy does not make for a rewarding reading experience. To elaborate:While I was reading Babel, I was comparing it a lot to Flamefall (which is the second book in The Aurelian Cycle Trilogy) by Rosaria Munda since both deal with themes of inequality, revolution, and war. And honestly if you want an example of these themes handled well go read Flamefall instead (but obviously read Fireborne first lol). I'm just gonna say it here Babel was just a less interesting and less compelling version of Flamefall. Like in Babel, there's also a colonial empire antagonist in Flamefall too, and it would have been so easy for the author to depict everyone under that regime as cruel and evil. But instead we actually see the day to day lives of ordinary people under that regime, how many people have different thoughts and beliefs and ideals and stakes. In addition we are also shown the lives of people under the "innocent" country and how the government and its people constantly make mistakes and errors and poor choices. This made for such a richer reading experience because we are shown the full stakes and complex actions of everyone involved, whereas in Babel, there exists no such complexity. And yes, I know there were a few moments (in the end where everything was crammed in) where the characters began to question their actions, but that ultimately lead to nowhere. The conclusive message of Babel basically seems to be "white people bad, everything sucks, and then you die" (which is honestly most of literary fiction in general lmao) and that's fine I guess. Despite all of my above criticisms I will agree that it's a very smart book, and I know that every reader who picks it up will get something different out of it. I'm happy for them but alas, t'was not for me. I'm more than ready to read whatever epic fantasy Kuang comes out with next, but I think I'm gonna skip on her lit fic novels from now on. Oh, and before I cast them out of my memory forever, fuck the footnotes.
7635702118	Welp, that was a huge disappointment. When you talk about the distance between expectations and reality, Babel was about as far apart as you can get.But before I get into that, let me start with a disclaimer. As you can see, I did not like this book. In fact, I'm hard pressed to come up with even one thing I enjoyed in here. But I'm decidedly in the minority, and many readers clearly loved this. If that's you and you thought this was the best thing you've ever read and would happily spend the rest of your life reading this over and over, that's totally cool. But uh, it's probably best not to read my review.Seriously. There is a giant rant incoming, so last chance to turn back. You've been warned.Right on, then. Let me start with my main issue here. This is clearly a tale built around the author's linguistics education and her desire to expound at length about colonialism, slavery, and racism. And I don't necessarily have a problem with that, but if you're going to go on and on about anything, there had better be some depth to it. But all I got was some regurgitation of fairly surface level stuff. And on top of that, where is even the story?We spend hundreds of pages on Robin's linguistics and language education, during which time the author seems to have forgotten she's writing fiction and not actually a textbook. Sure, it was interesting to read about these topics initially, but when it goes on and on for hundreds of pages in the droning fashion of an actual grad-level textbook, I start to lose my patience. Where is the insight? Where are the new and interesting ideas that would grab me and make me rethink my views on languages and by proxy, the entire world? Instead, all we get here are lots of words and what they mean and how they translate into various languages, and how there isn't a direct translation between them and so we're forced to lose a bit of meaning during the process. Like, okaaay? Do I look like I live under a rock and need this spelled out across hundreds of pages in order to grasp such a simple concept?Then there's the puzzling factor of the footnotes. There were so many of them (at least one per page), but they weren't there to elucidate the story as you would expect. Rather, they were there to dwell on irrelevant and quite frankly boring linguistics and translation asides, contexts, and histories. Their inclusion does nothing for the already plodding pace, and I honestly can't wrap my head around why they were included in the first place.I get that R.F. Kuang is clearly very knowledgeable about these subjects and wants to convince us that the universe she has created, and in particular, Babel, is real. And of course every storyteller faces the dilemma of how much detail to include in a bid of authenticity versus narrative pacing and flow. But Kuang, faced with this choice, always erred on the side of including everything. No detail is too small, no random linguistic tidbit too obscure, to have made it in here. As a result, I'm entirely convinced that Robin & co. are studying linguistics and languages, but since I'm not actually trying to get a PhD in these subjects, it really doesn't make for a scintillating read.But if it were just wading through some dull passages to eventually arrive at a fascinating story, I wouldn't be so upset. Instead, we never get to the good part. This book starts and ends with the message that colonialism, racism, and slavery are all very, very bad. And while I wholeheartedly agree with that, there is nothing else of substance beyond that sentiment.Every character, every plot development, every dialogue is in service to this message. The characters were all flat, one-dimensional representations of their respective races, with no potential for redemption or ability to rise beyond their skin color. It's odd that for a story supposedly against racism, the author employed such broad stereotypes for all of its characters.Every plot development was clearly a way to manipulate the situation to showcase this message some more. And even the dialogues were nothing more than thinly veiled disguises, consisting of one character playing dumb so that the other character could lecture them some more (and us readers in turn) on the badness of these beliefs.You know, there's something to be said for subtlety. My favorite books are always the ones where the author trusts the readers enough to follow along and to come to their own conclusions. Alas, that's not what happened here. Here, this book seems absolutely terrified that its readers are very dumb, so it resorts to the sort of simplistic, repetitive, heavy handed badgering usually reserved for toddlers and Communist propaganda.But even after all this, hundreds of pages on linguistics and languages and translations, not to mention the endless discussions on colonialism, racism, and slavery, I still feel like I learned nothing new. Everything in this book is so surface level, so unimaginative, trite, and utterly predictable, that it feels like I read nothing at all.The irony is, even with this plethora of material, I still felt somewhat fuzzy around the worldbuilding. The most interesting part of this book, how the silver relates to the languages, seems very vague and glossed over. Which means that at the end of the day, I just didn't buy into this world. And for a fantasy, that's pretty much a complete and utter flop.Maybe if I wasn't an enthusiastic fantasy reader who craved compelling plot, rich worldbuilding, and nuanced characters, but instead was just looking for some basic ideas, then I probably would've found this story acceptable. Or better yet, if I wasn't sure how to feel about colonialism, racism, and slavery (good or bad, who can say?), then the rudimentary thoughts presented here would've enlightened my views. But as it is, this didn't do anything for me and will probably go down as my biggest disappointment of the year.~~~~~~~~~~~~See also, my thoughts on:Yellowface~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧✧ This was a pick for my BOTM box. Get your first book for $5 here.
3984604381	By the end of Babel, I was shaking. Maybe out of grief, maybe out of awe; I felt as if I had watched something monumental flourish and collapse. And, for a minute, the world seemed so still, like the last few pages were a clip from a silent film. I’m writing this review immediately after finishing the book. I think, at some point in the near future, the enormity of what I have just read will come slamming into me. But for now, I will type away and try, in vain, to express the shockwave that I know is about to hit the literary world.Babel has the weight of a modern literary classic, although it is a unique blend of historical fiction, fantasy, and nonfiction. Kuang’s writing can be very technical, and often reads like a textbook. Despite the dense, lecture-like paragraphs about etymology and the history of language, Babel is incredibly immersive. It’s so easy to get swept up in this story. Over the 24 hours that I was reading this, I would tell myself that I was just sitting down to read a few pages, only to accidentally read one hundred. I enjoy reading nonfiction and I have a passion for languages, so when I closed the cover of the book feeling like I had just completed a university course, I was filled with this sort of humming glee. I can see myself reading Babel again and again, poring over every sentence with the same fascination that I experienced this first time through.Rebecca Roanhorse calls Babel Kuang’s love-hate letter to academia, which could not be more accurate. Nowhere else have I read academia described with so much biting, loving, unflinching detail. Babel honors the magic of translation and linguistics. While many say that words are just sequences of sounds given meaning, language is undeniably a keystone of history and culture. Translation is a highly underappreciated art. Every time words are converted between languages, they lose some of their association, some of their meaning and gravity. What is most important in a translation? The author’s style and voice? The emotional message? The exact words themselves?Robin, the main character, feels so real. For most of the book, he grapples with impossible decisions. He was taken to Babel without choice, but he feels at home in the tower, which feeds his hunger for knowledge. He knows that the research he works on supports British imperialism, but he relishes the power he wields as a translator and silver-worker. As he witnesses Britain pump opium into China, his homeland, he struggles to choose between the utopian life of comfort and discovery he has grown to treasure and everything he has wilfully ignored for most of his life: the fact that he will never truly be accepted in Oxford for who he really is, that to the empire, people like him are either curiosities to be examined or subhumans to be exploited. Staying at Babel feels like a betrayal, but the enormity of the other option frightens him: join the secretive Hermes Society to take a stand against Britain’s abuse.This is where many of the most weighty questions are raised. As the title suggests, Babel is in part a breakdown of the necessity of violence. It’s easy to say that nothing is solved by brute force that could not have been solved by diplomacy, but will an oppressor ever be able to sacrifice their pride and greed? At what point does a line need to be crossed, a transition from peaceful activism to the threat or action of violent upheaval? Robin, Ramy, Victoire, and Letty are all meticulously drawn characters. While their bond is fiery and passionate, they are afraid to test the limits of their inherent differences. Letty, raised in an upper-class white family, has trouble understanding how Robin, Ramy, and Victoire will never truly be free at Babel. How they were taken from their countries and shackled to Babel, forced to help construct the same empire that is destroying their homes and enslaving their people.Babel is passionate, scathing, incendiary, fervent. It has all the inevitability and gravity of a tidal wave, a massive force crashing into me, sweeping me away. Here, I find that language has failed me once again, because I cannot write a sentence or a paragraph or a whole review that will quite capture how I felt when I finished Babel. I will leave it for you to discover, because if you pick up just one book this year, make it this one.5 stars
4187354850	I tried my very hardest to like this. I thought The Poppy War was excellent when I read it a few years ago, and Babel seemed like a combination of subjects I find fascinating and spent my own uni days immersed in-- history, language/linguistics, colonial studies --but in hindsight, I wonder if I might have found it better if I knew nothing about those subjects.Babel is set in Britain in the first half of the 1800s. A young Chinese boy is brought from Canton to London by a language professor and taught Latin, Greek and Chinese in preparation for his future studies at Babel-- Oxford University's Institute of Translation. In this alternate world enchanted silver is used to power the empire, and it is the careful application of language that enables silver's power to be harnessed. In short, it is about how colonial powers used language to control and profit from others.I almost gave up after the first 200 pages, but my partner had already read and liked the book so he convinced me to continue.My initial impression (true of the whole book, it turned out) was that it said an awful lot, repeated an awful lot, and still managed to be very basic in its examination of its themes and characters. The language/linguistics analysis is an overview of any beginner linguistics course. Anyone familiar with a rudimentary history of how languages have been shaped and changed over time will not find anything new here. Perhaps it will be more interesting to those who are unfamiliar with these subjects.To me, it felt very much like reading a textbook. Dry regurgitation of a linguistics or postcolonial lecture. The author uses Oxford as a setting and the later Industrial Revolution as a historical template, adding very little that was new to any of it. The protagonist, Robin, is a very passive unmemorable character, surrounded by characters who are either equally benign and forgettable, often serving as mouthpieces for what feel like jarringly modern views, or else one-dimensional EVIL imperialist racists. Where is the unique fantasy flair? Why are all the characters lacking in nuance?Each one of the footnotes spread throughout seems to exist to hammer the points over our head.Somehow, I finished it. Though I feel like I should have stuck with my initial gut feeling and not have bothered because my experience remained the same way throughout: forced, didactic conversations from one-dimensional characters; a basic history/language lesson; nothing to make this book stand out beyond its arresting cover.I adored the magic boarding school of The Poppy War just as much as the darker later chapters. I feel like school environments with young adults 16-25 can be extremely thrilling— hormones, jealousies, rivalries, ambitions, competition, clashes between differing personalities, but it is not so when the characters exist only to talk about academia and make the author's point for her. Here, they don't feel believable; they don't feel human. This book felt similar to Ninth House or a more basic version of The Secret History. Which is to say, unbearably dull.
4981320465	My complete review of Babel is published at Before We Go Blog.“That’s just what translation is, I think. That’s all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they’re trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands.”I have mixed feelings about Babel, R.F. Kuang’s Locus Award-winning novel, which I will try to articulate below.Writing (4.5/5): R.F. Kuang's writing has improved significantly since The Poppy War trilogy. Her somewhat sloppy writing was the weakest part of that trilogy, especially in The Dragon Republic. Kuang has taken a huge leap forward with Babel, which has the feel of a modern classic. I especially love how naturally she interweaves etymological discourses throughout the main narrative thread. My only minor complaint is her overuse of footnotes. Sometimes the footnotes are used appropriately, e.g., to provide historical or linguistic context, but too often she uses footnotes as a crutch to explain her characters' inner thoughts, which should be apparent from the main text.Setting (5/5): R.F. Kuang has captured the "dark academia" setting better than any of the other prominent novelists in this genre. She has done a particularly masterful job of capturing the academic aspects of life at Oxford. Babel is, in my opinion, a much better representation of a dark academic setting than Donna Tartt's The Secret History, which unfortunately has provided the archetype of the dark academia genre despite its highly unrealistic depiction of life in academia.Characters (3.5/5): Robin Swift and Professor Lovell are both masterfully drawn, multifaceted characters. Robin is a sympathetic character despite his increasing propensity for making bad decisions. Professor Lovell serves as an excellent villain, with just the right level of mystery. Robin's circle of friends are somewhat less well developed but are still fairly compelling. The other characters are rather one-dimensional. I was especially annoyed by Griffin.Plot and Pacing (3/5): This started off very strong. However, the plot suffers from uneven pacing, especially in the middle third of the book. The main problem is that the plot becomes increasingly unbelievable toward the end of the book. I couldn't quite fathom some of the horrible decisions that the characters were making.Magic System (1/5): This is the weakest part of Babel. Silver is magical because...it just is. In my opinion, this book would have been much better as historical fiction rather than fantasy. I found myself thrown out of the story every time magical silver made an appearance. I liked the novel best when it stayed in the realm of actual history.Worldbuilding (1/5): Babel considers a British Empire that utilizes magical silver to strengthen its imperial ambitions. But this magic-enhanced British Empire is...exactly the same as the real, historical British Empire. What, exactly, was the point here? Again, Babel would have been much better as historical fiction.Themes (1.5/5): There is an annoying lack of subtlety here...every English character is over-the-top racist, while the non-English characters somehow embody more enlightened 21st century views on the subject despite being in the 19th century. R.F. Kuang handled the complex subject of racism with a lot more nuance in the The Poppy War trilogy.Overall Rating (3/5): Babel starts off strong and is beautifully written. However, the incorporation of magic and a lack of nuance took away from the experience. It's a good book, but it falls short of the greatness that it could have achieved.
3983376767	so many people are going to have so many individual heart shattering reactions to their identity because of this book. it made me feel pride, it made me feel shame, it made me hopeful, it made me grieve, it truly kind of made me feel everything. but right now i am just feeling in awe of rf kuang and everything they are doing in literature, showing all the different words people use for violence. best footnotes. best dark academia. best book of 2022. trigger warnings + content warnings: loss of a loved one, murder, death, grief, disease/plague mentions, colonization, war, invasion, battle, talk of slavery, abuse, physical abuse from guardian, racism, xenophobia, colorism, use of slurs, blood, talk of suicide, talk of child labor, talk of inhumane work conditions, police brutality, torture, gun violence, brief sexual assault (unwanted touching with intent on more) mention of feet binding, misogyny, talk of drugs, stress + anxiety depictions, vomiting, talk of extreme stress put on students (beautiful art by cosmikbread) Blog | Instagram | Youtube | Ko-fi | Spotify | Twitchbuddy read with may and maëlys <3
7607696192	This was such a journey! I went into this book without many expectations or knowledge of the plot, and ended up really appreciating the timeline the author told the story. You’re following Robin as he’s taken from his homeland, brought over to England, and used as an asset (along with his cohort) to study at Babel and eventually use their translation skills in aiding the empire (per the silver magic bars). You get his time in Babel & his moral battle between turning a blind eye to what Babel is really doing, and his security/being well taken care of. The dark academia setting, the relationships, the characters, the “secret society” of Babel & magic system of the silver bars I thoroughly enjoyed, and enjoyed the unraveling of everything. The author lost me a few times as the story felt a bit dragged out, but I found myself thinking about what’s gonna happen next when I wasn’t reading. Definitely worth picking up even if you don’t think it’s your normal read, and if you like a political, dark academic, historical fantasy!
4411042037	This is the most ambitious thing I've ever written. In a lot of ways, the Poppy War trilogy was my training wheels; I finished off the standard linear epic fantasy project, and now I get to do all the formal, stylistic, thematic experimentation that I want. It's a love letter and breakup letter to Oxford. It gnaws at questions that have bothered me since I started graduate school–chiefly the brokenness of academia, and the sacrifices that true change might require. It's all the gnarly, bizarre, fascinating facets to linguistics, translation, and colonialism I've been studying over the past few years. I can't wait to share it all with you in 2022!!!
4950800550	i read this 100% because it seems badass.and guess what! it was! i get everything i want in this life and i always will.this had translation! literature! school! the evils of colonialism! what more could you want!besides a swift end to my liberal and uncharacteristic use of exclamation points, as if i am writing an email uncomfortably! unfortunately that won't be happening, because i am too enthusiastic!i don't know why this book has been getting bizarre and specific negative reviews, because i thought it was pretty damn good!not perfect — very YA feeling at points, and very slow at others — but effective and cool!bottom line: !!!
5173478245	Booktok will hate Babel as it requires both the capacity for empathy for other people and the ability to read and understand stories that are not solely a bunch of tropes pretending to be plot.Babel is beautifully written, well researched and delivers a powerful story full of emotion - if you're willing to listen.‘That’s just what translation is, I think. That’s all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they’re trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands.’
4957265922	if books were people, this story would be my perfect match. because this is the equivalent to tall, dark, and handsome. its also intellectual, mysterious, and passionate. what can i say - i have a type.and its dark academia.(the fantasy element in this is also a pleasant bonus).↠ 5 stars
5509118210	4.5Monumentalna
4717716598	a history lesson and a therapy session all in one r.f. kuang is brilliant and i will never be the same
4697415508	My grey cells on fire! They are out of order because of information overload. I never imagined there are so much to discover about the importance of linguistics! Okay I take it back. I knew it but the book absolutely made me remind of it!I haven’t read a book as intelligent, intellectual, unconventional, moving, unique as Babel for a long time. This is an extraordinary experience to learn and understand more about the power of language, and it also represents exemplary criticism of colonialism, strikingly bold approach to class differences, racism, nationalism. It feels like a stunning nonfiction perfectly blended in fantasy world and dark academia. The character development is perfect. Each of them are portrayed impeccably. Robin Swift warms your heart with his kind heart, intelligence, testing his morality from the beginning: should he help the thieves just he’s done before instinctively at the risk of losing his opportunities he’s been provided. Ramiz Mirza; quick witted, sharp, sarcastic, Indian, being targeted by privileged obnoxious students of Oxford because of his unique appearance. Victorie, observer, extra intelligent, overqualified, tough, badass worrier fighting tooth and nail to survive.And Letty, most privileged and least likable character but slowly she gets under your skin and her straightforwardness, sharp comments deeply affect you. Eventually you learn to resonate with her. Four main characters are outsiders, chosen for improving their abilities to serve at Translation Institute of Oxford, in other name “Tower of Babel” , the special place to protect entire silver talismans and very valuable manuscripts coming from all over the world to be translated in English. Robin, Ramy, Letty and Victorie are specifically chosen because of their unique abilities with languages and their minority issues. Robin and Ramy can not be Oxford men, they can only be men in Oxford. The girls forced to live far away from the main campus, being treated unequally. Robin’s immigration story, his move to London, his relationship with loveless Mr. Lovell and the mystery about the boy who just replaced is one of the interesting storylines mashed up with other three characters’ story. Overall: the entire complex execution is truly mind blowing! If you like linguistics, politics, true history, this is perfect match for you! Special thanks to NetGalley and Avon and Harper Voyager for sharing this amazing digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest thoughts.
4627176489	Earlier this year, I came up with my dream author panel: RF Kuang, Patrick Rothfuss, Neil Gaiman, and Philip Pullman. When thinking through this, I wanted to know if anyone has ever had a fantasy author panel before, and I discovered that, indeed, Comic-Con has had fantasy author panels in the past. Because I have learned that the worst people can say is no, I contacted Comic-Con, asking if I could host this fantasy author panel. They said sure but would give me no budget, so it was a non-starter. However, my dreams never die. Eventually, I will either invite all of the authors to visit when I am properly book famous or I will team up with someone to do a Kickstarter. All that to say, I really think that RF Kuang is the future of fantasy. The Poppy War is an incredible book that I simply loved, and I have mad respect for her.Now about Babel…….The first 5% and the last 40% were very strong. However, from about the 5% mark to the 60% mark need some revision.Recently, I have been reading Daemon Voices by Philip Pullman. It is a book about storytelling (which I highly, HIGHLY recommend). I’m going to paraphrase the gist of one of his thoughts, but Pullman is simply a master of writing. Authors or would-be authors need to practice the art of storytelling. Think of storytelling as a marketplace of sorts. Readers come into the marketplace with storytellers on every corner. Readers who are intrigued will linger, staying a few more minutes, but if they get bored, they will just pop on over to another corner to discover another storyteller.Alright so what does this have to do with Babel or am I just delusional? Well I’ll let you be the judge of that.What Didn’t WorkThe storytelling needed improvement. First, way too much time was covered in this book. Even in Harry Potter, they only cover one year in each book. This book covers way too many years. It would have been better if RK Kuang just focused on the first year at Oxford or broke up Babel into several different books. Second, this book is too far in the weeds about language and etymology, the origin and history of English words. Certain sections of Babel were so technical that they reminded me of my tax classes (but I found those much more interesting because literally the rules save you real money or keep you out of prison). Third, the story arc wasn’t clear until much, much later in the book. For a good portion of the time, I was like, “Um, where is this heading?” Fourth, the ending is incredibly weak. Back to Pullman for a minute. In The Golden Compass, he has one of the best endings that I have ever read. I have never wanted to read the next book so badly. However, the ending in Babel is forgettable and lackluster. Fifth, the sections on the characters need to be rewritten. The sections on Ramy, Victoire, and Letty were not as strong as they should have been. If I was editor of this book, I would have focused on one key moment in that character’s life and really focused on “showing, not telling”, really going through one moment which would move my readers’ very soul. Telling these characters’ life stories in one chapter is just too much to take in.Sixth, I didn’t find Robin’s first day at Oxford very believable. Why would anyone risk everything without a safety net for a cause and a person that they only met 5 seconds ago?Seventh, there is one death that had too much foreshadowing. Dune is one of my favorite books, and one of the reasons is that a character was killed off that I never saw coming. In Babel, I would have been really surprised when this character was killed off, but I wasn’t surprised when we were warned right before it happened. What WorkedFirst, the beginning is really strong and interesting. Second, RF Kuang has a very good grasp of readability. For example, she doesn’t have massive paragraphs and massive sentences. She has also modernized the language for 1828. There are no thees or thous. Third, the fantasy is easy to understand and isn’t overwhelming. Fourth, Babel addresses some important topics. Especially in today’s political climate, we have a choice: we can either work to change the system or we can refuse to engage. It really reminded me of all of the heat that Sheryl Sandberg received for writing Lean In, a book with tips about how women can succeed in the workforce. The criticism is that Sandberg offers how to succeed in the current atmosphere instead of advocating for changing the system. However, is it easier to change yourself or the entire system? That will be a question for your book club. ConclusionOverall, this book did turn around at the end, but it took too long to get there. However, I’m not giving up on RF Kuang just yet. If anything, it just proves that I definitely need to put together this fantasy author panel. *Thanks, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and unbiased opinion.2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango
3983208517	LITERALLY WTF i have no other words
5210012256	Well, that was quite an interesting ride. I'm surprised by the fact that for a book that seems so intimidating, it was an easy yet immersive read. Though, not perfect. The writing although, consistent and smooth finds a decent balance between a tone that comes across both as factual and emotional. But at the same time, there were issues for me that were quite dense. Especially when it came to the explanation of 'silver' or rather 'silver bars.' Like sure, I get the metaphorical meaning behind it but the execution of it could have used some clarity. I loved how it fed into my inner history nerd. I absolutely ate it up and it scratched an itch in my brain that I didn't know I needed. The characters, all so complex yet somehow maintain their simplicity in their ideals and values. I really liked the character dynamics between Ramy and Robin in particular and would have happily read more of them. They all stood out in their own ways, even the slimy ones. The ending, although emotional, didn't quite give me closure in ways I wanted to. And it's fair I suppose given the nature and subject of the book. It's realistic in some ways and yet it didn't satisfy me as much as I would have hoped for. Overall, a book worth reading and Kuang does a great job at highlighting issues of imperialism, racism while juggling the complexity of culture and languages. It's certainly a thought provoking read and one that I'll be thinking about for quite some time. Thanks to lovely Levi for reading it with me and letting me yap to him. ~•~•~My first R.F. Kuang, been on my shelves for ages. It's now or never...
4958549926	Sorry but this was soo mediocre.... Jokes on me I guess because the hype was too fucking real for this.Watch my full thoughts here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXOIp...]2.5 STARS
7836274442	“A translator dances in shackles”“Is faithful translation impossible?”Babel , the royal institution of translation. Stolen place and stolen papers ,stolen flesh and stolen silver, This book focuses heavily on the topics such as racism and slavery and colonialism.“Robbery, butchery and theft - they call these things empire, and where they create a desert, they call it peace.”Four students and oxfords dreamy spires and god touched arches and towers a pure symbol of power. They always wanted a home those four students and oxford was more than happy to indulge them in this delusion that they would find a home at babel. “They were men at oxford; they were not oxford men.”Ok allat aside i had quite a few problems with the book The author tried to write about racism from the perspective of every colour and how they were discriminated by others and couldn’t manage it properly.Let’s be honest it felt lowkey fake, the characters I mean they were so stereotypical and boring imo no shade to anyone. “Bettering one’s understanding of the human condition is not a matter of profit.”Then comes the fantastical part which lets be honest again was not even present. She got so lost in writing about the historical part that she forgot to properly explain the silver working which got so confusing and I found myself enjoying the foot notes more than the actual story.“After all we are here to make magic with words”. The first 450 pages got me bored to hell and back, it was just spitting up random facts from history WHICH WAS NOT FUN AT ALL. “They had the keys of the kingdom; they did not want to give the back.”The last 150 something pages got me hooked and I thought that it may better but the author had to ruin it all by giving such a shallow ending. Why was the ending so painfully pointless and utterly predictable :( She was just removing characters as if that’s okay or if that will provide a good closure for such a heavy story.“They were not with out their witThey argued the way bright young people did with a well fed ego and too many opinions.”Robin aka the main character did not deserve all that. The author just tortured him from page one until the very last. And victoires (lowk main character) epilogue made no sense. Did something happen to London and Oxford or did their sacrifice went to waste. Will the history call them a hero or poor and awkward villains we got nothing no closure. “Power did not lie in the tip of a pen. It did not work against its own interests. Power could only be brought to heel by acts of defiance it could not ignore. With brute, unflinching force.”Now the twist was so predictable by the very first line “the necessity of violence” that I wasn’t one bit surprised when they got betrayed and isn’t it obvious that you can’t win against an entire empire with no violence“I think decolonisation must be a violent process.”“The thing about violence, see,is that the empire has a lot more to lose than we do.”“Revolution’s impossible without violent insurrection.”So whatever magic babel had it did not touch me sadly. But i get it as to why it’s so hyped. It was just info dumping smh“Survival’s not that difficult but you’ve got to maintain some dignity while you’re at it.”Anyway tysmmm to sara, sk and uv for buddy reading it with me and listening to me hating this book. “You must know the barbarians to control the barbarians.”
3983331649	If you had told me that a historical fantasy set in the early 1800s at an Oxford institute for translation would make for an intriguing fantasy book, I would have said, Sorry, but sounds kinda dull. Allow me to stand corrected.RF Kuang has written a masterpiece. Through a meticulously researched and a wholly impressive deep dive into linguistics and the politics of language and translation, Kuang weaves a story that is part love-hate letter to academia, part scathing indictment of the colonial enterprise, and all fiery revolution. The story is populated by complex and contradictory characters who face soul-shattering choices and stakes that rock the world. Now, I will admit there are a few places midway that drag a bit for those of us who are not scholars of linguistics, but they are laying groundwork for an explosive and thrilling conclusion. Not only is the story deftly plotted, but the prose flows, and complex ideas are made easily digestible and intriguing. There are a handful of footnotes used to great effect (and I am not usually a fan of footnotes in fiction but they work perfectly here) and even some smartly placed interstitial chapters.Overall, Kuang pulls no punches in the sharp, brilliant, heartbreaking, heart-filling, and all together satisfying story. Five big stars.
4950573707	4.25!“Language was always the companion of empire, and as such, together they begin, grow, and flourish. And later, together, they fall.” No one does it like Rebecca. No one.
4844400363	hahahaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaa i thought i was ready for this book! i'd read the poppy war trilogy! i'm familiar with the time period, with academia, with interrogations of empire!reader, i was not ready. Babel is more ambitious, more brilliant, more upsetting, more satisfying, than i could have imagined. it's a love letter and a declaration of war. it's The Secret History on the scale of empire; it's Jonathan Strange with teeth.god speed, babblers. <3
4730827534	A full dark academia themed video and review is featured on my booktube channel here!I promise you all - this book is astounding. Words cannot do it justice (the irony, ha). This is everything I long for in dark academia. It presents the obsessive, fanatical cycle of studying, the weird thrill that comes from achieving the overworked student aesthetic. It presents a feeling of camaraderie amongst likeminded souls, and the conviction that all else is immaterial. But it also presents many brutal truths - the violence behind academia. The cost of knowledge as a resource. The web of accepted deceptions society is built upon. Every contradiction of obsession, hatred, comfort, violence, and so much more is captured in this book. It hurt. I’m wounded. And I loved it 🥹Thank you to the publisher for sending me a copy of this book for review! This in no way affects my opinion of the book itself.
5368898606	Multiple discovery refers to the common phenomenon of scientific and mathematical discoveries occurring in multiple places simultaneously and independently. It also refers to the hypothesis that this phenomenon is the rule rather than the exception for the accumulation of human knowledge and technology. In other words, it a hypothesis of evolution. Multiple discovery can be observed in fields as diverse as weaponry, calculus, cereal crops, and nuclear fission. RF Kuang opens Babel with an author's note listing, among other things, the books she read to ensure her portrayal of 1830s Oxford was as accurate as possible. She does not cite any other bibliography, so the reader is left to wonder if she read any books regarding scientific or mathematical history. I am forced to conclude she did not, because the magic in her book -- the system supposedly underpinning her reality -- is so poorly conceived that it accidentally reifies the colonialist worldview she is trying to combat.We are introduced to silver magic very early in Babel. We learn that it can do the following:* Cure cholera* Propel ships and carriages* Purify water* Keep food fresh* Imagine anything produced by industrialization, silver magic can do thatIt does this via the inscription of two or more words in different languages on a bar of silver. The tension between translations of the words, which have similar but not exact meanings and share etymological roots, creates the effect of the magic."Wow!" you might say, "how cool!"I agree."That must change everything, right? Everything in this world must be completely different. What happened with the Inca Empire?"Thank you for asking! Nothing. Or rather, everything, exactly the same as it happened in real life.Babel is a novel of contradictions. Unfortunately most of these contradictions are self-inflicted and detrimental to the reading experience. The book follows Robin, whose Chinese name we never learn, as he leaves his mother's dead cholera-stricken body, spirited away to England by the father who refuses to acknowledge him. His father is a professor at Oxford, specifically at Babel, which does linguistic work in service of the empire. Robin nearly completes an undergraduate degree with three other classmates, who become his close friends, before intimate involvement with the beginnings of the Opium War leads to him becoming a violent revolutionary.The book begins to fall apart as soon as we reach London, with hundreds of pages left to go. We are given a vague description of London, meant to highlight its differences from Canton. There is not enough specificity to conclude anything except that the author enjoys semicolons: London is "drab and grey" but also "exploding in color", "a city of contradictions and multitudes", where silver "glimmered from the wheels of cabs and carriages...shone from buildings under windows and over doorways, lay buried under the streets". We are told that China has minimal silver magic but tons of silver, a precursor to the warmongering Robin will try to stop. We are told that Robin is very curious about silver magic. Then he spends six years learning Latin and Greek while being subjected to racism by everyone he meets and also once being beaten by his father-guardian with a fire poker.We learn all of this at remove. We are literally told everything that Robin experiences. When Robin arrives at Oxford, we are subjected to linguistic lecture after linguistic lecture. We are told he makes friends who become his family; these friends rarely speak, get a few pages of POV in "interlude" chapters sprinkled throughout the book, and are only characters insomuch as they are as shallowly written as Robin himself. Robin attends lectures, which we get transcribed verbatim, and displays a stunning lack of curiosity about silver magic, even knowing it could have cured his mother, and even studying, supposedly quite demandingly, to become a silver magic-worker. There is also, inexplicably, a shitload of information about scones.Robin's passivity is a huge issue throughout all of this, because it is his changing convictions, supposedly, which drive the novel's plot. But he has no convictions. On his first day in Oxford he witnesses a theft of silver, led by someone who appears to be his doppelganger. He helps the thieves escape, and we learn over time that the doppelganger is Griffin, Robin's brother. Griffin recruits Robin to his secret society to steal silver and secrets from Babel and distribute them throughout the Empire, with the intention of bringing Britain to its knees. Cool! Only, Robin doesn't seem to think so, or he's not sure what to think. Oxford, you see, is so nice. It is so nice to walk on marble floors, and to go to the library, and to sit by a fire, and to eat scones with your friends. It is nice even though half your friends can't go to half the libraries because they are girls, and you yourself are constantly having racial slurs flung at you. It is nice even though your professors threaten you and demean you and your heritage. It is nice even though you are a genetic experiment, because the rules of Kuang's silver magic dictate that it can only be used by those who dream in both languages. It is nice even though your dad-professor barely speaks to you.Robin's passive bourgeoisie complacency only becomes more transparent and grating as the novel goes on. I've DNF'd fully half of the NK Jemisin books I've tried to read, but I found myself repeatedly wondering what she'd do with the book's central conceit, because she is someone who understands how power works and is interested in exploring real-world colonial power in a fantasy setting. This book actively avoids exploring those questions repeatedly. Many have noted that its linguistic lectures read like real lectures; I wouldn't be surprised if some were borderline transcriptions from Kuang's own experiences. But this means the novel suffers from an oddly atonal juxtaposition. Robin's primary role is to react to other people lecturing him about linguistics and social justice in very modern language. We may have our own opinions on how he reacts, but there is minimal exploration of the problems at the center of the novel's conceits. There are very few worldbuilding or ethical questions that Kuang seems interested in exploring, magical or otherwise. I found the too-modern linguistics lectures frustrating in their lack of creativity as well. During the Victorian period, English was undergoing massive changes. Dictionaries, spelling standardizations, broader circulation of print materials, all should be impacting how language is discussed and, consequently, how the magic works. But it doesn't, because the magic is a loose structural support for Kuang's true passion: endlessly describing Oxford pastries and pubs.These complaints are largely stylistic, but the narrative's anglophilia introduces a more serious problem as well. This novel is concerned with colonialism. Its protagonist is a young man who grew up subjugated and abused within the British colonial framework, and his journey centers around his struggles with the institutions that simultaneously enchant and abuse him. The answers to what he "should" do are always glass-clear to the reader and are usually clear to him. There is very little sense, past the (wonderful) opening scene, that Robin is meaningfully struggling with the realities of the world he lives in. We are told he struggles, but we just don't feel it with the same depth and meaning that we feel his affection for Oxford.Now, some aspects of colonialism are unambiguous. It's an awful institution which must be resisted. It's fine to take that for granted and fine to state it baldly in the text. But the novel repeatedly comes up against the horrifying truth of the empire -- how such horrors can be dreamed of, implemented, permitted to occur, perpetuated, and praised -- and shies away from even considering answers beyond simplistic pablum about money and power. I think this is a very serious error in a novel which is, ostensibly, fantasy. One of the reasons people flock to SFF is that the genre allows authors to take readers on journeys of discovery with internal logic that serves the humanist questions of existence. It is impossible to overstate how little Babel is interested in using its genre to explore resistance to empire -- despite that theme's ostensible place at the center of the narrative. One thing happens after another, one semester ends and another begins, and the reader is not asked to expend even a moment of intellect or curiosity in regards to the fantasy elements of the story.As a side note, this refusal to engage with fantasy as a genre has some weird and borderline offensive side effects. At one point, a Black female character tells her friend that slaves' chains were inscribed with magic to make them "docile, like animals". Chattel slavery happened in real life. Slaves were chained up, in real life. To change nothing about the world's history but to imply magic prevented them from escaping is to disregard real histories of revolt and resistance, at best.Kuang's affection for Oxford also undermines her message. She repeatedly depicts Oxford education with respect and even awe, minimizing the sophistry and chauvanism that imperial propaganda requires except when she needs a villain for Robin to briefly resist. This immaturity extends to the magic system itself. Babel is the center of the universe because Britain alone among nations can do silver magic at scale. China has tons of silver, and France and Germany have translation institutes, but Babel and Babel alone produces the silver magic that makes the Empire run. Let's be blunt: this is colonialist propaganda! This is imperialist exceptionalism, put in the mouth of a bunch of 1830s colonized peoples and accepted as true. It is absurd to think that silver magic along among all developments in human history would be so atomized, so specific to one small college in one small region. It is doubly absurd when we're told in the early chapters of the book that silver magic dates to antiquity. I shouldn't need to tell a Cambridge, Oxford, and Yale scholar that most of what we know about antiquity we know through translation. This book asks me to believe the Ottoman fucking Empire took a look at silver magic and went "haha that would be crazy. Probably none of our business though".This portrayal fails to interrogate the opportunistic nature of empire, its reliance on propaganda and its asymmetric power relations with subject nations. It neglects elements of chance and denies the agency of colonized nations in favor of passive acceptance of the fact of British superiority. Its contention is the contention of a would-be savior, ironically very similar to a Victorian reformist in ethic and attitude. It says, yes, Britain, you are truly better than everyone else. But you should exercise your power with greater care. You should be nicer. It is wrong to kill people. And, yes, of course it's wrong to kill people, duh. But the underlying assumption that Britain actually is better and more advanced than everyone else is never truly interrogated, much less deconstructed.As the book moves forward, Robin realizes more and more that his situation sucks shit and so does Oxford. Unfortunately he chooses to do almost nothing about it. He finds out his friends Ramy and Victoire are also in the secret anti-colonialist society but he struggles with what to do with this information. A little pettiness, as a treat: it is not too hard to divine why a Yale PhD student whose Wikipedia bio lists her prep school might write a protagonist who cannot see any possibilities for his future beyond dying poor in a ditch or continuing to betray himself by working for the Empire in Oxford. But it does limit the narrative in a frustrating way. Robin doesn't even discover possibilities that he dismisses for some reason; he never seems to think of the concept of ordinary employment.Ramy and Victoire themselves are profoundly underdeveloped throughout the narrative. Ramy exists to be a more self-aware colonized person, someone who understands he is oppressed and hates his oppressors. He is also gay and dies with an unacknowledged mutual attraction to Robin. How romantic! Let me translate for any heterosexual who might be reading this: I mean it's a homophobic plotline, and one we've seen before.Victoire is even less developed than Ramy. She is a compulsive peacemaker who begs Robin and Ramy to forgive the fourth member of their cohort, Letty, even as Letty says wildly racist shit every time she's on-page. At one point Victoire and Letty are sexually harassed and nearly assaulted at a ball. Ramy says to Letty "This is all your fault" because Letty wanted to go to the ball. Victoire fades off-page. Oddly, though we are informed none of the protagonists can do laundry and this is why they can't live independently as fugitives, we are also informed in the epilogue that Victoire was trafficked/enslaved and forced to be a maid of all work for years in her childhood. Maybe she just didn't want to do laundry. Fair enough.Gender, in general, is treated with profound unease in this book. Letty exists to be a kind of proto-"racist turncoat white feminist", a role that I think this book would benefit from were it coherent. Kuang seems to repeatedly forget about the material conditions she has placed "the girls" in; they are made to sleep far apart from everyone else, barred entry to libraries, told they have to cut their hair off, etc., yet the information provided is inconsistent and sometimes contradictory. This is a problem for the narrative for two reasons: firstly, it is jarring to read a scene where an Oxford ball is full of women and think "am I supposed to think they're all hired, or WAGs, or...?" Secondly, the history of white feminism (literal, not colloquial) is a history of deliberate alignment with white supremacy and disinvestment from working class solidarity. This history of course occurred bit by bit, decision by decision, and that history was happening in the time this book is supposedly set in. There is an actual interesting point that could be made with Letty's character that is completely ignored in favor of jarringly anachronistic politics. Victoire also gets the short end of the stick here: she is barely a character, she exists literally to be Robin's "rock" in some chapters, she is a cipher and an allegory despite being someone who is oppressed by way of race and gender. Justice for Victoire.In the back half of the book, the narrative completely falls apart. Robin kills his father on the way back from a trip to his native Canton, after discovering that his father has been instrumental in deliberately failed diplomacy as a ramp-up to war. Robin's friends help him cover the murder up, but unfortunately they are all insanely stupid and are almost instantly discovered, after which point they flee with the Hermes Society. Letty kills Ramy and the British kill the rest of the Hermes Society. All of this escalates until the final act, in which Robin and Victoire, along with a few professors and other characters we have spent absolutely no time with, occupy Babel with the intention of forcing the British government not to go to war with China.The occupation of Babel is deeply boring. They sleep, dither on what to do next, and Victoire keeps telling Robin to stop trying to commit suicide via terrorism. We hear about barricades being built, the army moving in, people dying as silver magic fails, and it all happens at such a great remove that I will forget nearly every scene within the next few weeks. In the end, of course, rocks fall and nearly everyone dies. We are treated to one of the worst paragraphs in the book, then a moving final paragraph, and then a ridiculous epilogue from Victoire's point of view that seems to exist entirely to reassure us that Kuang didn't kill her Black female character.There are a few things worth discussing, though. The first is the working class solidarity in the last act. Robin is shocked to discover that the striking mill workers don't personally hate him, but they do hate the silver putting them out of work. He's shocked to find out working in a factory is bad (????). He's grateful for the barricades and the food, because he and Victoire seized the tower with absolutely no plan for holding it long-term. I might find this development moving except it is delivered in the most unbelievably fucking condescending prose known to man:‘It was never about the silver,’ said Abel. ‘You realize that now, don’t you? It was about the wage-cutting. The shoddy work. The women and children kept all day in hot airless rooms, the danger of untested machines the eye can’t track. We were suffering. And we only wanted to make you see it.’‘I know,’ Robin said. ‘We know that now.’‘And we weren’t there to harm any of you. Well, not seriously.’Victoire hesitated, then nodded. ‘I can try to believe that.’‘Anyhow.’ Abel gestured at the barricades behind him. The movement was preciously awkward, like a suitor showing off his roses. ‘We learned what you were up to, and thought we might come up and help. At least we can stop those buffoons from burning the tower down.’CONTINUED IN THE COMMENTS, MAY GOD NEVER HAVE MERCY ON MY SOUL
4639368818	Za drugim razem, i to po polsku, trzepie mocniej. Ta książka powinna być nielegalna, bo ktoś przez nią kiedyś obali jakiś rząd.
5563884510	Internalized racism and the takedown of colonialism? Hell yes. Give me more. The same people that are offended by YELLOWFACE will also be offended by BABEL. IYKYKIt is 1828 in Canton, now known as Guangzhou, a city in Southern China that has historically spoken Cantonese. I won't get into the linguistics of how Cantonese is different than Mandarin, and every other Chinese language.(Side note: Why are Swedish, Norwegian, and Danish called languages when they are mutually intelligible? Cantonese and Mandarin are not mutually intelligible, and yet they're called dialects. Perhaps a question for another platform.)Robin, whose birth name we never learn, is a mixed race Chinese boy by birth. At the beginning of the story, his mother and their entire household has just died of cholera. In swoops Professor Lovell to steal Robin back to the UK. Robin has grown up speaking English due to an English tutor. He spends the next seven years learning Greek, Latin, and everything else an Oxford scholar requires.When Robin reaches Oxford, and Babel, the translation institute, we see the world through new eyes. The UK still exists in this alternate universe. It is still an empire that reigns supreme. However, instead of the Industrial Revolution, the world is run by silver, which the empire monopolizes. Silver bars work by having one word transcribed on them on two sides, in two different languages. As other European languages have so many loan words in English, these match pairs begin to lose their power. England must look to the untapped languages of the East, to those in China, India, and beyond.Robin brings Cantonese, which he quickly begins to forget. It is very easy to lose a language when you don't use it every day. Professor Lovell has Robin instructed in Mandarin.He quickly makes friends with his cohort, outsiders in the wider world of Oxford. Ramy is from India, and the two become fast friends. There is a hierarchy of sorts, in the ways which they experience racism, because in the right light Robin can pass for white.The two girls have it a little harder. Victoire is Black, and experiences things that Letty, who is white, doesn't even notice, such as not being allowed to use the indoor bathroom at their lodgings.I won't say I was surprised at the deceit and betrayal in this book, nor who it came from. It was very obvious to me. Perhaps this is what offended so many people. Perhaps it was the obvious message of anti-colonialism. But if, like me, you come from immigrant parents who lived in a much colonized country, and moved to another formerly colonized country where we do not pass as the majority, you will find yourself somewhere in this story.
4591914110	"She learned revolution is, in fact, always unimaginable. It shatters the world you know. The future is unwritten, brimming with potential. The colonizers have no idea what's coming, and that makes them panic. It terrifies them.Good. It should.""'That's just what translation is, I think. That's all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they're trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands.'"Absolutely phenomenal. One of the most brilliant, razor-sharp books I've had the pleasure of reading that isn't just an alternative fantastical history, but an interrogative one; one that grabs colonial history and the Industrial Revolution, turns it over, and shakes it out, pointing out the rotten roots empire grows from and making damn clear the work, the sacrifice, and yes, as the title says the necessity of violence in ripping it all apart. This book was also just so damn CLEVER in how it applied the magical aspects. If I can be a total nerd, the linguistic stuff was not just profound in how it was used, it was really neat to learn!Anyway, GO BUY THIS BOOK (view spoiler)[ (but beware it's also gonna rip out your heart and you may spend several chapters going "but if we don't SEE a body, maybe it didn't really happen....please??) (hide spoiler)]
4642793565	the rumors are true: it's pretty phenomenal. babel is by far the most ambitious historical fantasy book on colonialism and resistance that i've ever read, and it surpassed all my expectations. i loved how the themes of colonial oppression, revolutions, worker revolts, violent resistance, and the power of language were tackled - and the way rf kuang managed to weave in an original magic system throughout all these themes is honestly brilliant. the prose is packed to the brim with commentary and taking apart complex themes - it makes the reader work but it also presents itself in a straightforward, easy manner. some people might not like just how straightforward and lacking in subtlety the themes are but i loved it - in my opinion, this is exactly how the ugly truth of colonialism should be written: blunt, unsubtle, upfront, so that no one can look away or hide from it. i like how babel confronts violence of the oppressed - so often fantasy books on colonialism shy away from the reality of violent resistance (and fall into the trap of completely vilifying it) but babel approaches it with honesty and understanding. i also love how student revolution is shown here: knowing the sheer impossibility of fighting against the colonial empire, and trying anyways. not only does this book set out to examine revolutions but it revolutionizes the dark academia genre itself: THIS is my standard for dark academia now - a book that oozes with passion for academia while recognizing its brutal colonial roots, a book that showcases all the wonder and struggles and small horrors of student life. the writing is so immersive, i felt like i was walking the streets of 1830s Oxford, sitting beside the characters in the classrooms, learning new subjects and debates, stressing out during the ruthless exam period. i never thought i'd be this captivated by discussions on translation theory and linguistics and how it all ties into imperialism but babel makes sure to leave the reader just as fascinated with these topics as the characters (and author) are. i'm also in awe of the unique translation-based magic system rf kuang created - silverworking is so intricate and grounded into the world it genuinely felt real to me. we get to see how this magic ties into the economy and geopolitics of britain's colonial empire and how it's used in the vicious exploitation of countries - but most of all, i love how silverworking shows the beauty of different languages and cultures. a note on the footnotes: so so good, i always looked forward to them - loved the historical tidbits and interesting anecdotes they contained. as for the characters, we get a cast of distinct personalities and varied backgrounds. if there's one thing rf kuang knows how to do, it's write an undeniably compelling, sympathetic protagonist who you can't help but root for. robin swift has my whole heart - i was with him every step of the way; every decision he made, every stance he took, every hurt he felt, i understood and was always on his side. robin's fear of losing his mother tongue is something that particularly struck me - honestly, this book had me reflecting on my own relationship with my mother tongue and culture. of course no book is perfect and where babel stumbles for me is with the side characters. don't get me wrong, i did love them - ramy, griffin, and eventually victoire were my favorites (also, i have to appreciate the author for writing such a respectful portrayal of a practicing muslim character who takes pride in his religion and culture). however, the way certain character arcs ended up left me really frustrated and dissatisfied - the author clearly favored plot and themes over developing certain characters and while i understand rf kuang is more of a theme-driven writer, it was still maddening to see. letty and victoire are an example of this: although i get letty's role in showing the more insidious forms racism can take, i think she got way too much page time that victoire deserved instead (or was this a meta look at how white people take up space that should've been given to others??). ultimately, even my frustrations felt worth it - because what an incredible ending that was. those last couple of pages really put my emotions through the wringer; it was so gutting and so beautifully written, i'm still trying to process. rf kuang has accomplished something magnificent here - this book is going to stay with me for a long time.
4398811174	"That's just what translation is, I think. That's all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they're trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands." I think I have been a victim of the hype.Don't get me wrong; this book was enjoyable. The concept, the themes, the lens through which we explore them, the magic system... all great. The discussion of linguistics and translation and their relationship to colonization and oppression? Utterly fascinating. But while this book had infinite potential, for me, it fell short. The characters were little more than cardboard cutouts, many of them shallow as a puddle, with little to no growth of change throughout the novel (ignoring the sudden 180 of our protagonist, which felt a little too unnatural and contrived for my taste). My favourite character, Victoire, was woefully underutilized, Ramy was little more than a mouthpiece through which the author could directly translate her ideas to the reader, and Letty was cartoonish in every aspect.The exploration of the themes, while interesting, was quite repetitive and heavy-handed, the same concepts driven home over and over and over again both in the main text and the footnotes to the point where I felt a little bit like I was in a lecture with a professor who thought I was not the sharpest tool in the shed and had to hit me over the head with a concept 500 times for me to get it. Each reveal was less a surprise and more an inevitability, and the predictable nature of the narrative bled it dry of all intrigue.I believe this book would have been greatly improved with a little less underestimation of the reader and a much deeper development of the characters. I'll be interested to read more from this author in the future, and the concepts introduced in terms of translation and the role of language in colonization will stick with me for a long time to come.Trigger/Content Warnings: drug use, death of a parent, child abuse, violence, racism, sexism and misogyny, xenophobia, slavery, murder, blood and gore, suicidal ideation, colonization Watch my video review of this book: https://youtu.be/IYrtk_IXx7QYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
5852222030	Un incantevole esercizio allegorico che sarebbe potuto diventare un grande romanzo. Nella prima parte del libro - vibrante di magia - ci affacciamo su un mondo accademico ovattato, sebbene tutt'altro che innocuo, in cui si muove Robin, un bambino strappato alla madrepatria cinese e allevato in Inghilterra per diventare un traduttore di Babel, una torre che funge da istituto di traduzione e importante centro di ricerca a Oxford. Il dilemma tra lo slancio per l'accesso alla conoscenza e l'entusiasmo per la magia, da un lato, e dall'altro la consapevolezza che l'accademia non sia che l'emblema della violenza colonizzatrice, non impediscono a Robin di vivere, di studiare, di imparare, di dare forma alla sua identità, per quanto divisa. Tutta la sua esistenza è scandita dall'apprendimento delle lingue straniere e anche il romanzo è arricchito da nozioni linguistiche perfettamente incastonate nel testo, non sono un contorno o una nota a piè di pagina ma l'essenza stessa del libro. Una goduria per qualsiasi appassionato. La traduzione è uno sforzo incessante che il lettore percepisce vividamente e che è anche alla base del sistema magico creato da Kuang. Infatti in questo universo gli incantesimi - che in tutte le narrazioni fantastiche si attivano grazie alla parola - si ideano e si sprigionano a partire dall'ingegnosa traduzione di termini apparentemente intraducibili. La magia sta proprio in quello che "si perde" dal passaggio tra una lingua e l'altra. Ad esempio, il termine speed in inglese deriva dal latino spes che implica, però, non propriamente la velocità ma anche un certo slancio, un buon presagio per il futuro. Questo scarto di significato permette un'interpretazione che, se incisa su delle tavolette d'argento, produce un effetto sulla realtà. Nella fattispecie: fa andare più veloci le carrozze. Un espediente magico molto "romantico" che sarebbe stata una perfetta metafora di qualsiasi risorsa intellettuale e tecnologica di un Paese. In Babel l'Inghilterra prospera perché possiede traduttori capaci di attivare gli incantesimi delle tavolette d'argento (e conosce e custodisce i segreti della lavorazione dell'argento). È anche così che si è imposta sulle colonie che non si fa problemi a depredare e sfruttare, accrescendo il suo vantaggio. Una sorta di retelling fantastico della storia dell'imperialismo britannico, quindi? Sì, peccato che la seconda parte del romanzo incaselli forzatamente tutto il materiale narrativo in rigide semplificazioni e banalizzazioni che nei libri di storia non troverebbero spazio. Le affascinanti premesse narrative, purtroppo, risultano completamente appiattite in una seconda parte priva di vitalità, soffocata da un messaggio politico piazzato in maniera retorica, ingombrante, del tutto privo di sottigliezze, infarcito di spiegoni e banalità. Il colonialismo è una disgrazia (grazie), i colonizzatori sono dei cattivoni senza la minima sfumatura, tutti gli altri degli angeli vendicatori che da studiosi di Oxford si trasformano in militanti kamikaze, improvvisamente votati al martirio e privi di scrupoli. I sentimenti che provano sono descritti ma non sono percepiti come autentici. Tutti i personaggi diventano dei simboli politici e delle allegorie da sventolare all'occasione, come se il romanzo si stesse trasformando in un agone di oratoria politica o, nei casi più eclatanti, in un flame sui social media sull'appropriazione culturale. Descrivere una parabola politica per la propria narrazione non è un errore, naturalmente. Ogni autore ha le proprie intenzioni e i propri messaggi da inserire nel testo narrativo. Il problema è quando si sacrifica del tutto la logica e le intuizioni del romanzo per seguire una traiettoria predeterminata, decisa in partenza, sorda a qualsiasi deviazione. Rimane una lettura affascinante e, in più punti, ipnotica ma se l'autrice avesse assecondato più la naturalezza della storia, avremmo forse avuto un romanzo diverso. Le intenzioni dell'autrice impediscono di dare slancio alla storia che ne risente e si riduce in un finale meccanicistico dove tutto va dove deve andare ovvero in un luogo desolatamente prevedibile. In particolare sono due le travi che scricchiolano, minacciando il crollo della torre di Babel:1) Le dubbie conseguenze del sistema magicoCiò che mi aspettavo da un sistema magico basato sulla traduzione è che rapidamente quel vantaggio competitivo conquistato dall'Inghilterra si dissipasse e venisse adottato da altre nazioni (stiamo parlando di traduzioni di lingue straniere e sappiamo che la ricchezza linguistica NON è prerogativa dell'Europa). Tutto ciò non viene descritto con sufficiente dovizia dalla Kuang che invece, incomprensibilmente, non fa altro che aumentare la posta in gioco, considerando la traduzione delle tavolette d'argento l'unica risorsa del mondo, da cui dipendono tutti. Quando invece è ovvio il contrario. Qualsiasi cosa succeda grazie all'argento è facilmente sostituibile dalla tecnologia, come è sempre accaduto e sempre accadrà alle risorse non rinnovabili: si cercano alternative che facciano da surrogato. È assurdo dare tutto questo peso alla magia, per il modo in cui è descritto il suo funzionamento all'interno del romanzo. *POTENZIALE ANTICIPAZIONE* Quando poi nella seconda parte del libro tutto ciò porterà a conseguenze politiche disastrose, viene un po' da chiedersi se abbia senso quello che succede o non sia tutto troppo esagerato e cartoonesco. Inoltre questo romanzo inizia con quattro personaggi che dialogano a tutto spiano, non riescono a guardarsi oltre alla punta del naso e nella loro vita non hanno avuto pressoché contatti con il mondo esterno, se non sporadici. Nella seconda parte, invece, ci ritroviamo in uno scenario apocalittico in cui le sorti del mondo dipendono da loro. Non possiamo che convenire che il radicalismo verso cui alla fine si giunge sia completamente schizofrenico. È come se fossimo passati dalla visione di Dead Poets Society a quella di Fast and Furious in 500 pagine. Non è equilibrata né coerente la successione degli eventi. *FINE POTENZIALE ANTICIPAZIONE* 2) I personaggiPrima degli esseri umani tratteggiati con delicatezza, poi, trasformati in avengers dalla rabbia intermittente, oppure, peggio, bloccati su posizioni ottuse, sinceramente incomprensibili e incoerenti al di fuori dell'avatar di un videogioco platform. Nello specifico, la caratterizzazione del personaggio di Letty (allegoria della ricca donna bianca privilegiata) è imbarazzante per qualsiasi scrittrice dotata di una qualsiasi maturità stilistica. È doloroso vedere in azione personaggi incapaci di muoversi liberamente, condannati a gesti forzati, incapaci di crescere e cambiare. Ricordano quelle spaventose live di TikTok sui personaggi NPC (not playable character).Babel è una lettura affascinante che rifarei mille volte, pur riconoscendo che soffre degli stessi problemi della guerra dei papaveri: inizi promettenti, scoppi improvvisi, risoluzioni affrettate. È tuttavia possibile abitare ogni singola stanza di questo edificio, amando ogni singola pagina e detestando ogni singolo spiffero che rovina, in parte, l'atmosfera di piacevole calore che emana qualsiasi storia del genere dark academia. Voglio uno scone da mangiare.
6000141357	3/31/2024: i feel like i need to go into a dark room and only think about this book for the next 100 years! I HATE THIS BOOK. I HATE IT SO SO SO MUCH. the wound will never heal.rtc ☆pre read.꒰🏛️ ᝰ.ᐟ — r.f. kuang is 100% going to cause me emotional turmoil and i'm very excited for it <3 br with bff lila ! (also, ily cheska, rina, iso, ren, and mags: my fellow babel lovers who worship this book, thank you for flooding my fyp and being the reason i started this)
6634370548	I was really impressed and moved by Babel. It’s a powerful, thought-provoking story, and I wanted to share what I loved about it while also pushing back against some of the critiques I’ve seen on here. Yes, the book has its flaws - it’s not perfect. It’s written by a young author (born in 1996), and at times, that shows. But those imperfections don’t take away from its brilliance, ambition, and insight. Babel is a unique, dazzling book that stands out for all the right reasons.Spoilers Ahead!The story follows Robin Swift, a Chinese boy whose short and turbulent life unfolds before us. Taken from plague-ridden Guangzhou (Canton) to Oxford to study at the Royal Institute of Translation, Robin’s world runs parallel to real historical events. Many of the figures and moments in the book - the invention of the camera, the spread of Morse code, Lin Zexu’s ban on opium - are based on actual history.The book introduces a magical concept called “silver-working,” which allows silver bars to harness energy from translation between languages. It’s an interesting idea, but the novel itself isn’t heavy on magic. Instead, the story focuses on power struggles - between individuals, institutions, and empires. As the plot unfolds, silver-working becomes more symbolic than practical, serving as a metaphor for colonial exploitation and oppression.Even without magic, history has already shown us how empires have expanded, exploited, and inflicted suffering across the world. And that’s what Babel is really about. R.F. Kuang doesn’t create an entirely new fantasy world - she integrates magic into real historical events, using it as a lens to explore British imperialism. You might be disappointed by this approach, expecting a more traditional fantasy story, but I found it to be one of the book’s greatest strengths. It’s clear that Kuang, as a student of history, is deeply invested in these themes, and she skillfully weaves them into the novel.In a way, Babel reads like the kind of story an overworked Oxford student might dream up - something to add excitement to dry academic reading. But Kuang’s vision goes beyond that. She takes us from Guangzhou to London, from Paris to Calcutta, from Oxford’s academic halls to striking mill workers, tying it all together through the life of one boy. Through Robin, she reinterprets world history and challenges us with a theme we probably skimmed over in our high school textbooks: British Imperialism.At its core, Babel is as much about personal identity as it is about history. Robin’s journey - his shifting understanding of his homeland, heritage, and culture - feels deeply personal. Raised in England but born in Guangzhou, he constantly struggles with feeling caught between 2 worlds, never fully belonging to either. His character arc, from a timid, eager-to-please student to a young man burdened by the weight of history, is both painful and compelling.The book is divided into 4 parts. The first two focus on Robin’s growth - his relationship with Professor Lovell, his fascination with translation, his friendships, and his gradual disillusionment with Oxford. In the beginning, Robin is more of an observer than an active protagonist. He’s timid and hesitant, more like a Neville Longbottom than a Harry Potter. But when he finally comes into his own, the transformation is spectacular.The second half of the novel is about choices. Robin doesn’t just grow - he takes action, for better or worse. And this is where opinions seem to split. His decision to attack the Tower of Babel, his ultimate sacrifice - many found his choices frustrating or naive. Some argue that his violence was unnecessary or futile. But to me, that’s missing the point. Robin was never meant to be a hero, nor was he supposed to “win.” His ending was the only 1 he could bear.A lot of readers expected Robin to escape, to become a revolutionary leader, to master silver-working and carry on the fight. But Kuang subverts those expectations. By the end, it’s not Robin who carries the story forward - it’s Victoire. Robin’s journey ends with Babel, but Victoire’s continues. He isn’t the hero of this story; he’s the martyr in someone else’s.And then there’s Ramy. His relationship with Robin is, at best, subtle - so subtle that you might not even realize they were more than just friends. But when Ramy dies, it seals Robin’s fate. I get why Kuang kept their relationship ambiguous, but I wish she hadn’t. The book already tackles massive themes—m - imperialism, culture, identity, politics - so why shy away from this one? If their relationship had been developed just a little more, Robin’s emotional collapse would have felt even more devastating.What really sets Babel apart isn’t just its historical depth - it’s Kuang’s love and understanding of language. Who would have thought etymology could be this fascinating? Or that translation could hold so much power, both literally and metaphorically? The way she blends real linguistic concepts with fantasy is nothing short of brilliant.That said, the silver-working system itself has its flaws. It’s original and intriguing, but not entirely fleshed out. There are inconsistencies and gaps in how it works, which might frustrate those who want a tightly structured magic system. But for me, that wasn’t a dealbreaker. The book’s focus was never really on magic - it was on language, history, and power.At its heart, Babel shows how translation is never neutral. Language is power, and those who control it can shape the world. The Tower of Babel’s theft of languages mirrors the empire’s theft of resources, culture, and identity. And through this, Kuang turns something deeply academic into something accessible, compelling, and, at times, breathtaking.Let’s be clear: This isn’t a perfect book. It’s not some untouchable masterpiece - it’s a historical fantasy novel written for a general audience. Some reviews criticize it for lacking philosophical depth or Marxist analysis, and honestly? That’s a bit much. It won a Nebula Award, not a Nobel Prize in Literature. Kuang is a doctoral student in her late twenties, still writing her dissertation - she’s incredibly talented, but she’s not an all-knowing academic god. On the flip side, those think the book is too heavy, too academic, and not magical enough. For them, I’d recommend Harry Potter.For me, the biggest challenge Babel faces is balancing its historical depth with the expectations of the fantasy genre. Kuang leans more into history, which gives the book weight but also limits its worldbuilding. The magic system could have been more developed, but at the same time, the historical narrative is what makes Babel so compelling.Overall, I highly recommend it—especially if you love historical fantasy with a critical edge.4.6 / 5
7508741000	B̸̧̛̼̪̳̫͋̊̈̑̿̂̂a̸̢̨̼̤̙͙̮͈̓̐̀b̴̡͖͉̟̲̥̣̪̾ě̵̖̜̤͑̎̈́̓͠͠ͅľ̷̢͙̲͕̥̝̾̇̋̈́̓̌͜͝ A Towering Triumph of Language, Loss and Revolution 𓂃✍︎ If words are weapons, then Babel is a war cry. This was my first R.F Kuang book and I must admit that is not just a novel, but a linguistic rebellion wrapped in academic robes, soaked in ink and blood.Oxford ImperialistSet in 1830s Oxford, the university is a glittering tower of translation magic—literally. Babel uses silver bars infused with linguistic nuance to power the British Empire. As Yuvi says, that it gave off some Harry Potter vibes, I agree with her to some extent. The atmosphere is certainly like Hogwarts, but my favourite characters are from HP (ofc).𓂃✍︎ Beneath the scholarly sheen lies a brutal truth: “This is how colonialism works. The fallout from resistance is entirely our fault”.𓂃✍︎ The prose is so beautifully written. I may not have come across such a wonderfully written and well-researched work ever. I love Kuang's satire of academia... it is deliciously biting.𓂃✍︎ The characters—Robin, Ramy, Victoire and Letty—are polyglot prodigies (Hey!! Yuvi and I am too:):)) plucked from colonized nations, brought to Oxford to serve the empire that subjugated them. Their brilliance is both their gift and their curse.💔Translation is Betrayal𓂃✍︎ The translation (unfortunately) has not been romanticized (view spoiler)[Am I crazy? (hide spoiler)] but weaponized. ⋆˚࿔ “Translation means doing violence upon the original... an act of betrayal”. Every word carries weight, every etymology a history of conquest. Even the word “nice,” we’re told, comes from the Latin for “stupid”—and that’s just one of many linguistic grenades, the dearest Miss Kuang tosses with glee.ೃ⁀➷Also, R.F. Kuang is the Queen of Foreshadowing𓂃✍︎ The emotional core of Babel is Robin’s slow, painful awakening. Raised in England but born in Canton, he is torn between the comfort of assimilation and the agony of resistance. His grief is suffocating: “Grief was a cruel, heavy boot pressed so hard against his chest that he could not breathe”. And yet, he fights. Because to live quietly is to die slowly.Babel is not a sanctuary—it’s a machine that consumes people.⋆˚࿔ “History isn’t a premade tapestry... We can form it. Make it. We just have to choose to make it”. The whole story builds to a crescendo of sacrifice and fury, where the only way to dismantle the tower is to burn it down.And burn it down they do.𓂃✍︎ Babel is a love letter to language and a eulogy for innocence. It’s for anyone who’s ever felt the sting of being “othered,” who’s ever wondered whether knowledge can be liberation or just another leash.It’s not just a story. It’s a reckoning!!!⋆˚࿔ "Power did not lie in the tip of a pen. Power did not work against its own interests. Power could only be brought to heel by acts of defiance it could not ignore. With brute, unflinching force. With violence." Last but not the least, thankyou Yuvi!! For staying by me the whole time and doing this with me:)THANKYOU!<3<3 I love you so much<3 Also, Levi, thankyou for including me! I hate you so much<3 THANKYOU! Levi's reviewYuvi's review Pre-Read My first book by R.F.Kuang.Have heard so many good things about this one!!!The Tower of BabelThe guysೃ⁀➷ 𝒃𝒖𝒅𝒅𝒚 𝒓𝒆𝒂𝒅 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 yuvi and levi!Commentary His mother had perished that morning. He lay beside her body, watching as the blues and purples deepened across her skin. The last thing she’d said to him was his name, two syllables mouthed without breath. 😭😭😭😭 In 1829, the plague that later became known as Asiatic Cholera made its way from Calcutta across the Bay of Bengal to the Far East... Feels so good when someone mentions your home state and then comes the first part of the sentence🫠 They would both remain perfectly content to linger in the liminal, endless space between truth and denial. This book is so nicely written 👌Yayyy! Ramy, a main character is from Calcutta!!! (Amar desher baari)How to make a girl cry (in less than a minute version):Robin starts learning SANSKRIT!!! OMGGGGG!I'm so happy!!!A Dickensian Gift!!! Griffin gives Robin a Christmas gift: a bound copy of Oliver Twist!!!OMG! I HATE LETTY! (view spoiler)[Such a r*cist! (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
6840717790	“That's the beauty of learning a new language. It should feel like an enormous undertaking. It ought to intimidate you. It makes you appreciate the complexity of the ones you know already.” Finishing this book made me feel so accomplished. I’m genuinely so proud of myself for finally picking up a book that has intimidated me for so long. After reading Yellowface two years ago and finishing The Poppy War trilogy this year, Babel was the final piece of R.F. Kuang's work that I needed to experience before her newest release, Katabasis.There's no denying that R.F. Kuang stands among the most intellectually formidable authors writing today. While Yellowface didn't entirely click with me in terms of execution, and I had a few issues with the whole author not trusting readers thing with that book to put it shortly, The Poppy War trilogy fundamentally changed how I read fantasy. Months later, I'm still thinking about those books, and they've created an impossibly high bar that has left me disappointed with nearly every fantasy book I've picked up since. It's both a blessing and a curse when an author ruins an entire genre for you.Babel represents something entirely different from The Poppy War's brutal military fantasy, but R.F. Kuang's intellectual rigour and unflinching examination of power structures remain unchanged.This is why I'm so grateful I waited for the right moment to pick up Babel. The best fantasy books don't just let you escape to magical worlds, but they force you to look at the real world and deal with all the uncomfortable stuff we usually try to ignore, like how messed up power structures really are. Babel is unquestionably one of those books that requires you to arrive prepared. You need to be in the right headspace, ready to be challenged and willing to think critically about the political complexities that extend far beyond the page. I'm glad I finally waited for the moment when I was ready to be challenged.Set in an alternate 1830s Oxford, R.F. Kuang constructs a world where magic flows from the tension between languages and cultures—a brilliant metaphor that becomes the foundation for her searing critique of British imperialism, systemic racism, and capitalism. It's confrontational literature that forces readers to examine how the power dynamics depicted continue to shape our contemporary world. The magic system itself becomes a vehicle for exploring how dominant cultures extract value from marginalised ones, how translation can be both a bridge and a weapon, and how institutions we revere often rest on foundations of exploitation.This book was definitely not an easy read for me—it's incredibly dense and textbook-like with tons of footnotes. But what really surprised me was how emotionally attached I got to the characters despite all that academic heaviness. I genuinely felt devastated by their struggles and completely invested in watching them navigate friendships and grow up throughout the story. I think it's worth noting how R.F. Kuang really excelled in that sense, where she wrote these important themes intertwined with attachments to characters. I honestly think that was such a nice surprise because I was full-on expecting to not connect with any characters—I was just prepared to read about complex and thought-provoking themes.Robin Swift- one of the most realistic main characters I've ever read, to be completely honest. He makes some questionable decisions throughout the book, but every single choice he makes just makes sense when you think about what he's going through. His whole character perfectly shows how the British colonial system messes with people's heads—they promise you wealth and acceptance that you'll never actually get, but it's enough to keep you hoping. Robin is stuck between trying to survive and trying to stay true to who he is, which is such an impossible position. No, his survival choices weren’t great, but they were completely human reactions to being trapped in situations that he was in. I love how he sometimes crosses lines he shouldn't, but you never stop feeling for him because you get why he's doing it. He reads as someone who got caught up in a system that was designed to confuse him, surrounded by people who never actually cared about him. I was rooting for him through every mistake and heartbreak—even when I disagreed with what he was doing. The part about him being scared of losing his native language resonated with me the most since I speak two languages too.All of the side characters played important roles. Ramy contrasts with Robin's character arc. Ramy holds onto his culture and his faith so tightly, and I admired him so much for that. The way he practices Islam and stays connected to his roots, even when it makes things harder for him, and he was so fierce and would do anything for his friends. I found it so fascinating to watch these two navigate the same hostile environment in completely different ways because it's like seeing two sides of the immigrant experience play out right in front of you. Robin thinks his only option is to assimilate and hope for the best, while Ramy refuses to compromise who he is, even if it means facing more obstacles. Neither approach is wrong, and that's what makes it so heartbreaking because they're both just trying to survive in a system that wasn't built for them. I truly appreciate how this book does such a good job showing that there's no "right" way to handle being marginalised, and honestly, both paths require so much courage.Letty's character is honestly such brilliant proof that oppression isn't some universal experience where everyone automatically gets each other's struggles. Just because she faces sexism as a woman doesn't mean she has any clue what it's like to deal with racism—and wow, does the book make that so blatantly clear. She's so frustratingly stubborn and closed-off whenever anyone tries to explain experiences that don't match her own. Like, you'd think someone who knows what discrimination feels like would be more open to listening, but that's not what it's like at all. Through her character, it was such a smart way to show how different forms of discrimination create completely different realities, and how having one experience doesn't automatically make you empathetic to others. It feels so true to how some people actually behave when confronted with perspectives outside their own bubble.This book really doesn't hold back when showing how colonisation literally ripped apart entire cultures and then had the audacity to profit from the pieces. The way the author writes about the immigrant experience felt very authentic, capturing that impossible choice between keeping your identity and just trying to survive in a place that hates you. That's not a choice anyone should have to make, but it's the reality for so many people. Reading about it made me so angry at how unfair these systems are.The only reason why I'm not giving this five stars stems from something I also noticed when I read Yellowface: R.F. Kuang doesn't seem to trust readers to recognise racism and problematic behaviour on their own. Instead of letting the story speak for itself and being subtle, there's this constant over-explanation—like being repeatedly told "this is bad, this is racist" when it's already painfully obvious. Don't get me wrong, I truly appreciated the historical footnotes that provided valuable context, but the heavy-handed commentary felt like getting hit over the head with the message instead of being allowed to draw my own conclusions. It's frustrating because the themes are so powerful and well-developed that they don't need this kind of hand-holding.That aside, this absolutely lived up to my expectations, and I'd definitely recommend this to anyone looking for that perfect blend of historical fiction and fantasy—just be prepared for some dense, textbook-style writing that's worth pushing through for the incredible story underneath.
4433541279	RFK's Babel was one of my most anticipated books of 2022, though from the get go, I was completely aware that it was a dark academia, a genre I do not have an amazing track record with. With that in mind I will go into this review saying this one is pretty subjective; Babel is sure to impress a lot of people. I did not like it. 2.5. Babel tells the story of Robin, a Chinese boy taken from his homeland to England where he is made a ward by a mysterious benefactor who keeps him at an arms length. He is trained in the art of language, and eventually makes his way to Oxford to join their translation department. There he starts to uncover the true secrets of Oxford's purpose with students gifted with language like him, and the sinister underbelly of the university. Like the The Poppy War, Babel is well researched and loosely based around real history- it can be be described as historical magical realism. RFK's writing and prose is the hi light of the story, and was the main reason I kept reading on. She is truly in my opinion, one of todays masters of prose. If I wasn't so intent on dropping books I didn't like, I would have continued on for this fact alone.I do want to note before I get into the dislikes that one of the other positive elements of the book to me was Robin, the main character of the story. He is a soft, passive boy who struggles deeply with feelings of gratitude, insecurity, and resentment for the English and the university that he attends; ever increasingly aware of their colonization of his home. This is a biting, real, and beautiful character study and his character in particular is handled really well. he isn't a "badass", but his deep internal, quiet struggle reminds me a lot of Sansa Stark's chapters from ASOIAF. Observational, and increasingly growing in boldness. His mindset and how it slowly evolves over time as he learns about the true crimes of his new home are chilling, and his pain is deeply personal. The book also uses other characters to illustrate the full power of British colonialism at this time, expanding far past Robin's home. Robin's *character arc* with regards to colonial England and his time in school is one of the hi lights of his character, but the story structure surrounding it is where the book starts to fall apart. Babel wavers between telling a subtle, smart, and heart-wrenching story about Colonialism before beating you over the head with it. The story structure starts to get really repetitive. Robin does a bunch of stuff at school, then ends up in a really pointed conversation about colonialism (usually with his friends) and it repeats. Some of these moments feel really ham fisted. RFK already does an excellent job through Robin's arc and relationship with other characters in handling colonial themes, but there are so many beats that feel awkward, unpolished, and don't actually add anything to the story. I feel the same way about how school is handled. Chapters upon chapters of just talking about Oxford, what people are doing at Oxford, what Robin is studying. These two subjects are tossed around ad nauseam and sometimes feel like filler. Robin talks about school for half a chapter. Someone is racist and Robin's friend Ramy calls them out. More school. More someone is racist and Ramy calls them out. Repeat. There are some really good scenes that feature these themes, but you also need to sit through a lot of 10 page descriptions about whats happening at school followed by a random racist encounter to get to the meat of things.To recap, I understand this book is about school and colonialism, but these subjects often feel like they are swapped back and fourth without any meaningful plot or character advancement. After double digit micro aggressions, they all start to feel a little redundant- particularly by a character meant to be a shining caricature for this behavior. After so many scenes you wonder why this character is treated like family by the main characters when her only personality trait seems to be “being racist”. She is a “main character” in the promotional art, but only exists to be a thematic mouthpiece and to annoy the shit out of the reader with her ignorance.RFK also has this habit I am starting to notice where if she hates a character she is writing, she really makes an effort for the readers to not just hate them, but disengage from them entierly. She doesn't even give them interesting villain traits, she just makes them really cardboard stock villains that exemplify all of the worst and most annoying human characteristics. Nothing to chew on. When she writes characters like Vaisra and Daji for example, the love she pours into them despite them being villains is so apparent. They are full people- so we know she is capable of writing nearly irredeemable people as full and complete human beings. This writing quirk makes it really hard to get through scenes with villains in them..because you really don't care about them and mostly want them to shut up. Babel really takes and runs with this, giving you a clear cut “these are the characters I want you to be interested in, these are the characters who are obstacles”. I found non of them compelling or very human. She makes it extremely clear, by contrast, which characters she wants you to like the most. The favoritism and underwriting of certain characters can make the book feel really hollow- as if a spotlight exists and only on certain characters as we move through the book. Even Victoire, one of the presumed main characters, who is really charming and interesting, is swept aside to focus on her favorites here. So of your main 4, you have a cardboard cutout of a racist, 1 interesting character, 1 character who says what everyone is thinking, and 1 background girl. The side characters are basically the same way, fading into the background or having no real humanity in them. Anyone who really loved Altan will see the same issues with Victoire.Babel isn't an ensemble told in first person- its mostly a story about two specific characters, and everyone else sort of moves them along like chess pieces; there existence seems to primarily be for these characters to react to. It’s hard not to compare Babel to The Poppy War because they are so thematically married, and yet The Poppy War does it better on every level. School, themes of racism and colonialism, questioning the nature of violence when used to self liberate…these are all elements of the story that are woven into the heart and fabric of The Poppy War in a way where they feel carelessly stitched into the seams of Babel. Structurally, it’s a step down. Babel is going to work for folks who care deeply about these themes regardless of how well they are written. There are some people that will view the importance of the thematic elements of the story and overlook some of the narrative awkwardness. I think this is a great book for fans of Ace of Spades and Ninth House and Legendborn- with a dash of The Secret History. I have no doubt that it’s going to work for a lot of people. There’s a lot of unique ideas here; primarily, discussing how linguistics furthered the power of the British Empire and give fuel to their atrocities and how it can be compared to hoarding wealth, medicine, and resources. This element of this story is super well thought out and is extremely stirring. Robin's journey is given such love and attention and I hope will appeal to people. This is not going to work for folks who aren’t primed to like it. It’s not going to work for people who don’t really love dark academia. It’s an extremely specific book based on a very specific passion of RFK’s blended with the themes of her previous stories. Sadly, I do not feel the character work or writing structure was enough to appeal to me as a bit of an outsider of the DA genre. It wasn't those listed faults that pushed me away from completing this book (DNF @70%) it was that it was too boring and repetitive to overlook them, which could be the biggest sin of all.
4664887474	* 4.5 stars 💫
5867057673	₊⊹⁀➴ 5 fucking starsthis book was a journey to get through. not bc of the length, but of the substance. rf kuang, if i had a fraction of a fraction of your brain, i would be insufferable.this book breaks down translation in a way so beautiful and so complex, that i have never ever had thought of before. rf kuang creates this universe that is full of pain and beauty and love, but it so horrifyingly reflects colonialism and its impact on everything, from humans to technology to empires as a whole. robin, i have never ever had a character break my heart more and ramy & victorie. i adored how flushed out robin was, how he was shy, meek, angry, yet hopeful but also always learning and changing just like real humans. now if there’s a letty price hate movement, know that im the leader. also WHAT WAS IN GRIFFIN’S LETTER PLS IM ACHING TO KNOW.
5846066703	5 ⭐️five heartbreaking, traumatizing stars 😖🤕🫂🗣️robin swift, you will never ever be forgotten 🫀🫀i feel so heartbroken rn i actually just want to dig a ramy sized hole in my heart and cry 😭💔💔 + also i genuinely don't have the intellectual capacity to write a review for this book,, so just read it!!!!ᯓ⋆. ✶ “translation means doing violence upon the original, means warping and distorting it for foreign, unintended eyes. so then where does that leave us? how can we conclude, except by acknowledging that an act of translation is then necessarily always an act of betrayal?”oh rebecca kuang.... the woman that you are 🙇‍♀️🙇‍♀️🙇‍♀️₊˚꒰ 🏛️ ꒱ ⊹ — pre-read: ready to be indoctrinated into the r. f. kuang cult!!! (i’m so blessed to be able to read this for my lit class omg 😭)
4954740703	Take an interesting magic system and fail to address the obvious contradictions even a child could foresee.Take interesting characters from compelling backgrounds and then make them stereotypes that act like puppets and demonstrate no independent consistency or intellectual depth.Add a thinly veiled metaphor for globalisation and capitalism.Sprinkle on a shadowy resistance force not fleshed out enough for the audience to really become really sympathetic to.Write the whole thing as a lecture in a tell don't show style that exhibits no charm or nuance. A style that would rather hammer ideas into the reader than take the time (in 550 pages!) to skillfully write and allow readers to come to those sensible conclusions for themselves.The writer is young. The editors saw dollar signs. Really disappointing.In a few years the writer will be mature enough to write a book and not assume the audience are idiots and think we need to be spoonfed explanations. They'll instead have confidence enough to let their ideas sink or swim without the need for floatation footnotes.On that score also... Footnotes made Susanna Clarke's work stand out because they added depth to the world! Here they just act to undermine the small efforts to show and not tell by putting a big neon sign up that says 'Hey dummy, you're supposed to think THIS!'That's off-putting to readers. It is why they have a rule that says *show don't tell*. Because any intelligent person would get very sick of the constant lecturing. Would find it grating exceedingly quickly.This isn't a TV show. I don't need constant reminders and recaps. It's a book, I want to lose myself in it! It felt like the writer expected people to skim-read or daydream while reading it... and so they insisted on saying the same thing over and over in case people missed that part.Maybe it will prompt younger readers to read the novels that this book mentions. They are great, I've read most of them.One title that this book owes a great debt to is Great Expectations... However that book sits at a rating of 3.7 on Goodreads... I feel betrayed by people who rated this highly. I will never respect Goodreads ratings again. You can't be trusted. You know what you've done. (I'm joking, a little)One of the biggest literary disappointments of 2022. (I'm not joking, not even a little)
6620144333	“languages aren’t just made of words. they’re modes of looking at the world. they’re keys to civilisation. and that’s knowledge worth killing for.” this book is a billet-doux to language & dark academia and a catalyst to revolution, all at once. it is absolutely stunning. fiery. incandescent. scathing. at its core, unflinchingly, unabashedly, unapologetically honest.and i loved every moment of experiencing this. “that’s just what translation is, i think. that’s all speaking is. listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they’re trying to say. showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands.” the etymological aspect to this, holy shit. i’m one of those people who appreciates little tidbits about language, so i ate up every little footnote and anecdote about colonialism, about translation, about history. i especially loved how languages were used as a basis to build the magic system, because it showed how rich and diverse each language is and how much wealth is present in words. language is so incredibly intricate and fascinating and i love how r.f. kuang writes so fervently about it in this. “oderint dum metuant.” let them hate, so long as they fear. the second half dragged for me, however. it’s not the ending that rubbed me the wrong way, because i thought the author was gonna go in that direction (after having already gone through the poppy war trilogy). it’s more the fact that it became too far-fetched to be believable for me. it didn’t hinder my enjoyment levels all that much though. yes, r.f. kuang was spoon-feeding information to us, but i felt like that was the book’s intent. it’s remarkably factual and that’s what i enjoyed about it. “be selfish,” he whispered. “be brave.” bottom line: this book isn’t perfect, but it hit just the right spots for me. it’s too on the nose at points, too bold and out-there with its opinions, but i believe that was the entire point. another note if you’re planning on reading this, so that you don’t go in with false expectations — babel is historical fiction with aspects of magic realism, bear in mind, it’s not fantasy. it’s gritty, it’s dense, it’s challenging to read at points, but i loved it all the same because i’m the type that loves to pick apart history and learn more about our world.
5430158064	5 starsTHE BEST BOOK I VE READ THIS YEAR
4836511989	Please make me president of the Rebecca Kuang fan club. If you want a better idea of what to expect from Babel, watch my spoiler free review here: https://youtu.be/035gVRJojMETL; DR: IT GAVE WHAT IT WAS SUPPOSED TO HAVE GIVE !! MASTERPIECE. PUT THIS IN THE LOUVRE !
5006708025	this book altered the course of my life. that's all i am going to say.
4951000125	Yet didn't he have a right to be happy? He had never felt such warmth in his chest until now, had never looked forward to getting up in the morning as he did now. Babel, his friends, and Oxford - they had unlocked a part of him, a place of sunshine and belonging, that he never thought he'd feel again. The world felt less dark. pg. 131This was so disappointing.Everyone is flying with excitement over this book. I was quite skeptical about it based on the description, but picked it up and started reading it. I was delighted. For about the first 130-150 pages or so. Then the book quickly became tiresome and just went on and on and on.Let's try and break this down, it's a lot.BASIC PLOT:Robin Swift (he's Chinese, but his Chinese name is never mentioned in the book, on purpose of course - colonialism is evil) gets taken from his house in China where his mother lies dead from the cholera by a white British professor (view spoiler)[secretly his biological father (hide spoiler)] in order to study translation at Babel, the Oxford school tower.He makes friends for the first time ever after being released from his isolated upbringing and intense studies in London into the academic world of Oxford. His friends are Ramy (Muslim from India), Victoire (Black girl from Haiti), and Letty (white girl from England). Eventually the work he is doing for The Crown makes him feel like shit because he is helping England enslave, colonize, and kill people.Chaos ensues.THE GOOD POINTS:Firstly, Kuang is a skilled author. Her book is very readable. You want to read it. You want to keep going. Even though about 75% (I'm not exaggerating) is a lecture from classes on language, translation, the evils of colonialism, the evils of white people... she manages to still make it a readable book. It takes great skill to do this.Secondly, Kuang is very smart. She's not only educated, she's intelligent and this comes through every word of the text. It's always a joy to see someone flex their intellect. Thirdly, the magic system. I found it fascinating and clever. Interesting, well-constructed. It involves enchanting bars of silver to affect people and objects. Takes the place of technology in the book.THE BAD POINTS:Sigh.NUMBER ONE:The worst thing about this book is Kuang's inability to let readers reach ANY conclusion on their own. She insists on explaining every single tiny thing to you. The book is 542 pages but it could easily get down to 300 or so. The reason it's so long is because Kuang's way of writing is crafting a paragraph in which something happens or a character has a feeling. Then giving you a second paragraph immediately after it which carefully, painstakingly explains to you how you should feel about the first paragraph or how you should interpret the first paragraph.It's exhausting.The message of the book is that slavery and colonialism is bad, everyone is racist, racism is systemic, a person of color can NEVER trust a white woman under any circumstances, etc. etc. etc. Basically every single 'woke' concept popular right now. I hate and despise the term 'woke' but I am at a loss to describe this any other way. It's not liberalism, it's not exactly anti-racism, it's every single talking point right now on college campuses. It's a pretty niche, academic view of the world, which is appropriate since this book is about academia. That's fine. I can even hear you agreeing. "Slavery IS bad," you say. "Colonialism IS terrible. Everyone IS racist, it's systemic, and there's no such thing as a non-racist white person."OK, let's say you are a liberal. Let's even say you are a liberal who agrees with all these premises. (Not all liberals do, it's important to remember liberals are not a monolith.) Let's say you are even still in University or fresh out and these ideas are still very prominent in your mind. Do you know slavery is bad? Do you know colonialism is evil?Well, it doesn't matter what you know. She will tell you. She will tell you over and over and over and over and over again.Literally every single page tells you slavery and colonialism are bad, people are racist. I wish I were exaggerating, but I'm not. LITERALLY EVERY SINGLE PAGE.This can get tiresome even to people who strongly agree with her.The book is only MASQUERADING as a novel. Really, it is a treatise. It's a manifesto. It's a ritual affirmation of Kuang's belief system. Robin, Ramy, Letty, Victoire... even the evil professor Richard are not real characters. They have no characterization. They are mouthpieces for Kuang. They are pawns on her board, her reenactment of the First Opium War necessitates having a British, a Chinese, an Indian, and a Black Frenchspeaker. Oh, and a colonizer. Robin and his three best friends are not living, breathing characters. I found it hard to sympathize with any of them (view spoiler)[with the exception of that first brutal beating Dick gives Robin, back at the beginning of the book when I still had hope this was going to be amazing. That was horrible and enraging. (hide spoiler)]. That's why I compare Kuang's book to The Underground Railroad. Not because both books are about overcoming your oppressor, about racism, about people of color freeing themselves from racist trappings. No, it's because both Whitehead and Kuang use their characters as mouthpieces to express their opinions. This is in contrast to an actual novel, where characters have character and have defining traits and live and breathe and you can imagine them outside of the book. There's none of that here.NUMBER TWO: She has tacked on a two-paragraph (view spoiler)[queer framing (hide spoiler)] here that has NOTHING to do with the plot and feels very last-minute. I have no idea why she did this. If she actually wanted to write a (view spoiler)[queer story (hide spoiler)] then she should have done so. It should have been a thread of the book. It should have been a subplot of the book. Instead, she's just off-handedly mentioning it as an afterthought. Maybe two or three times. I don't know how you should feel about this, I'm not (view spoiler)[queer (hide spoiler)] but it was jarring and surreal to me. Why was it even included? If she thought it was even a little important, why didn't it feature in the plot at all? Seriously baffled. Kind of reminds me of when J.K. Rowling was like, (view spoiler)["By the way, Dumbledore's gay." (hide spoiler)] And you were like "What the fuck?"NUMBER THREE: The MC, Robin, is SO weak and SO dumb. (Naïve?) I was willing to believe this when he was a child. I was even willing to believe this for his first semester at Oxford. After that, not so much. He's SO DUMB. SO DUMB. His weakness becomes exhausting, you just can't respect him by the end of the book. At least I can't.He'd be obliterated, but luckily almost every single character in this book is just as dumb. So many stupid people, the book is filled with fucking morons. I'm sure this is to advance the plot. If Robin was smart, things would move along much quicker and the story would be much less 'tragic.' If either Robin and his friends (the forces for good) or Evil England and it's Evil Empire (the forces for evil) had any brains, this book would have reached a much swifter conclusion. Unfortunately, everyone is dumb as a brick, ironic since the majority are supposed to be Oxford scholars.Kuang tries to laughingly play this off, making jokes about intellectuals who have their heads in the clouds, but it almost defies belief."They're academics,' said Professor Craft. "All we know is the life of the mind. We don't remember anything unless it's written in our diaries and circled several times over." pg. 486NUMBER FOUR: It's predictable. If you know the main academic-liberal talking points, and you know what the Tower of Babel is, you can pretty accurately determine the entire plot of the book. With the exception of (view spoiler)[Robin murdering his father - honestly, I didn't know he had it in him. Well, he didn't have it in him, it makes no sense, but it moved the plot forward so I guess that's why Kuang did it (hide spoiler)] nothing surprised me. Of course (view spoiler)[the white woman betrays them, a main talking point right now is how white women are fragile yet evil. And of course the tower has to fall, it's Babel! (hide spoiler)]TL;DR I genuinely wanted to love this book. It's kind of like a grown-up Harry Potter (again, I hope Kuang doesn't take offense at this comparison, I'm not talking about her in relation to J.K.'s hatred or fear of transgendered people.) People said The Magicians was grown-up Harry Potter, but that's such a dark and corrupt book. Kuang had more of a chance at this because she is capable of capturing joy, friendship, academic bonding, and mouthwatering food descriptions ALONG with adult concepts and feelings. Those cozier aspects are aspects Grossman had no desire to nourish.And I think she's wants this to be a tragic book, like people will be sobbing by the end or something.The unfortunate and extremely disappointing reality is that this is not a novel. It's simply a textbook, although one that's dressed-up in novel's clothes. The characters are paper-thin and bafflingly stupid. The plot is simply a retelling of the First Opium War (thanks to Hua Hsu, by the way - it was only because I was reading his book Stay True: A Memoir that I was able to put this together so early in the text), and the characters are simply chess pieces representing the different powers during this war.Besides that, Kuang hammers in every single point. She tells you exactly how to feel and what conclusions to reach about everything. She also repeats herself over and over. Slavery is bad. Colonialism is bad. Slavery is bad. Colonialism is bad. This is racism. This is racism. This is racism. Even if you agree with her - even if you are an academic who has had the same exposure she has to this kind of thinking - this becomes tiresome. Again, again, again, on every single page. I'm not sure if she thinks her readers are stupid? Or she wants to fit in EVERY SINGLE FACT she's learned into the book? Either way, it's unnecessary. Very heavy-handed. NO NUANCE. NO SUBTLETY. NONE. You're an idiot and she's going to treat you like one. You aren't allowed to draw any conclusions except for the ones she draws for you.Everyone is also pretty moronic, for no discernable reason except it's necessary for the plot and, perhaps, the length of the book as well.Only read if you want to be lectured for 542 pages. By a skilled lecturer, but still.The room seemed at once both mundane and heartbreakingly beautiful: the morning light streaming through stained-glass windows, casting colourful patterns on the polished wooden desks; the clean scratch of chalk against the blackboard; and the sweet, woody smell of old books. A dream; this was an impossible dream, this fragile, lovely world in which, for the price of his convictions, he had been allowed to remain. pg. 275RELATED READING/WATCHING:Warrior - https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5743796/Kiss of the Dragon - https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0271027/ "My name is not Johnny."Harry Potter and the Philosopher's StoneThe Underground RailroadNAMES IN THIS BOOK:(view spoiler)[Richard mBetty f ElizabethPiper fAdam mRobin m (Birdie) Chinese Ramiz Rafi (Ramy) m Muslim IndianHenry mJonathan mAntoine mHaroun mHorace mColin mBill mEdgar mEdward mAnna fElias mMary fBulkeley mRichard mFrancis mJames mAbraham mHenry mSterling mWilliam mRobert mMark mSarah fVictoire fLetitia f Letty Anthony mCharles mVimal mNathaniel mVictoria fJerome mGideon mGriffin mPhilippa fDick mJohanna fJohann mJohn mHeinrich mAlexander mMargaret fAnand mIlse fGabriel mPhilip mCathy fElton mVincy mMilton mLincoln mEveline f EvieLouis-Jacques-Mandé mJoseph mSilvestre mHugo mMatthew mAdam mJames mLuke mGabriel mMinna fSamuel mWilliam mCharles mKarl mLin mMeng mJemima fFanny fVaibhav mFrédérique mLisette fThomas mTheresa fAmelia fMargaret fIbrahim mJuliana fYusuf mMeghana fAbel mMaurice mAugustus mJean Pierre mEmile m (hide spoiler)]
5917718969	⟢ ♾️ stars 𖥻 “ that's just what translation is, i think. that's all speaking is. listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they're trying to say. showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands. ” this book is definitely not for everyone but it was so dear to me. r.f. kuang managed to write about such complex and thought-provoking themes in a way that you'll get emotionally attached to the characters + devastated because everything has an end. this book explores themes such as colonialism, industrialization, and prejudice but it's also about love, friendship, and growing up. i think that it's important to note that this is a very slow-paced book and the plot is not the type that gets thrown in your face. it focuses a lot on characterization and themes rather than tropes and plot. also note that this book is very dense when it comes to information. this is a mix between historical fiction + fantasy and the formatting is textbook-like (there's footnotes). if you're willing to look past that then you'll truly see the beauty behind this book.⊹ that's the beauty of learning a new language. it should feel like an enormous undertaking. it ought to intimidate you. it makes you appreciate the complexity of the ones you know already.babel follows robin swift from childhood to his journey through oxford. at a very early age, he lost his family during an epidemic and was then taken custody under professor richard lovell. professor lovell then brought robin back to the united kingdom to train him in latin, greek, and mandarin. when he becomes of age he gets enrolled into oxford's translation institute also known as babel.robin must choose to continue living his utopian life in babel - which ultimately betrays his motherland, china - or join a secret society called, the hermes society in their pursuits against babel.⊹ in the years to come, robin would return so many times to this night. he was forever astonished by its mysterious alchemy, by how easily two badly socialized, restrictively raised strangers had transformed into kindred spirits in a span of minutes.these characters are so dear to me because how did r.f. kuang managed to make me so attached to these characters within less than 600 pages? the way they were written makes me feel like i watch them all grow and that every single decision they made also affected me.robin. one of the most realistic main characters ever. he constantly made questionable decisions but they're all so valid + he deserves better. such a great depiction of the brain-washing that comes with colonization and assimilation. his mind was clouded by promised luxuries that he, in the back of his mind, he knew he would never get. he just wanted to survive and while i don't think that what he did for survival was the best, i can understand why he had to do it. so much internal conflict between doing the right thing and survival that sometimes he crosses the line a bit far. but at the end of the day he's just a lost boy surrounded by the wrong influences.- one of the best written mcs that i have ever written who has you rooting for him all the time.- robin swift they can never make me hate u !!ramy. i think he’s a great depiction of another reaction to colonialism. he contrasts robin’s willingness to assimilate by having a closer relation to his culture. he still sought out indian foods + practiced islam whereas robin didn’t. i want to say so much more but i can't form coherent words without having a mental breakdown about ramy.⤿ i think the contrast between these two characters is such a good interpretation of immigrants and their different approaches. in a world where you belong in a marginalized group, sometimes you think you have no choice but to assimilate and forget your culture. while other immigrants choose to preserve their culture. both are equally as difficult and not should not be compared.victorie. the best girl ever who deserves the world. i just know that being a woman of colour in 1800s europe was not an easy way of living but this girl is so strong like she ended up in oxford because of how smart she is? also she is so strong for being ab le to handle ****** (the person who shall not be named) because i would have thrown hands immediately. - so glad at how far she has come. my girl you deserved being selfish for once in your life <3one of my fav quotes about her:⊹ what an anchor she was, he thought, an anchor he did not deserve. she was his rock, his light, the sole presence that had kept him going.⊹ "be selfish," he whispered. "be brave."i cried for hours after.letty. proof that discrimination from gender and race are completely different. just because she is a woman who faces discrimination from gender doesn't mean that she automatically understands the struggles of poc. she's so stubborn and not willing to listen which makes her such an unlikeable character whilst still being so well written.⊹ "what you don’t understand," said ramy, "is how much people like you will excuse if it just means they can get tea and coffee on their breakfast tables. they don’t care, letty. they just don’t care."⤿ overall. i hold this book so near and dear to my heart. it criticizes the history of the british empire’s colonialism regarding the erasure and the stolen cultures. it depicts the immigrant struggle so well. sometimes to survive in a new country, you have to choose between survival and the preservation of culture. r.f. kuang writes such beautifully complex characters. i can't explain it but the way she wrote them was so lovely. the direction that she chose for these characters was so flawed that it was perfect. the conclusion for this book is my roman empire and i don't know how i can ever let it go. part 5 had me crying and frustrated and so enamored that i read the last half of this book almost all in one sitting.bottomline is this book is so impactful and i think should be considered a modern classic. ─ more r.f. kuang ᝰ.ᐟ yellowface babel the poppy war the dragon republic the drowning faith ... rtc the burning god ... upcoming ➶ quotes that altered my brain chemistry:⊹ power did not lie in the tip of a pen. power did not work against its own interests. power could only be brought to heel by acts of defiance it could not ignore. with brute, unflinching force. with violence.⊹ grief suffocated. gried paralysed. grief was a cruel, heavy boot pressed so hard against his chest that he could not breathe.⊹ 'the world has to break,' he thought. 'someone has to answer for this. someone has to bleed.'⊹ it was cruelty. don't ask me to love my master.⊹ he hoped. he hoped until hope became its own form of torture.
4830423983	This one wrecked me. Making my year-end best-of-2023 list for sure.
4932938405	That's just what translation is, I think. That's all speaking is. Listening to the other and trying to see past your own biases to glimpse what they're trying to say. Showing yourself to the world, and hoping someone else understands. Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⚠️Trigger Warning: Racism, Sexism, Violence, Death❗This review is spoiler-free❗If you're looking for a reason to cry uncontrollably from unrelenting emotional pain, then this is THE book for you. I will never be the same again, and I wouldn't have it any other way. R.F. Kuang woke up and chose to hurt her readers thoroughly and irrevocably with this absolute masterpiece of literature, and all we will do is thank her for it. Reading about racism and sexism is never easy and seeing as these are the main themes of the book, it is emotionally crushing to read page after page of discrimination, abuse, and degradation. What hurts, even more, is that little has changed since the 1800s which is when the story takes place.Moreover, I've been on a pretty intense reading slump for a while now. It might have taken me some time to finish this book (because my focus was completely off, it had nothing to do with the book itself) but it was all worth it. The way fantasy blended in with history, you would think R. F. Kuang wrote a history book, not fiction. The plot is incredible, although, I wouldn't be surprised if some found it a bit slow. The lore is magnificent. I was wholly blown away by the way it was established, though, I have always found languages and translation to be fascinating, so that helped the experience.In addition, Robin Swift is my favourite boy and I will love him forever. He went from soft bottom to hard top simply by going through intense bone-crushing emotional damage. That was quite the character arc. There's just something about a sweet, innocent individual that becomes a vengeful and self-destructive menace because the world just fucking sucks, that is both hot and a total mood. He made me cry a lot but I forgive him. It wasn't his fault. For the most part. My other favourite boy, Ramy, also owns my heart and I would honestly die for him if I could. He is a pure treasure both to Robin and to the book itself. He is loyal, sweet, and strong, and a literal cinnamon roll that could probably kill you. He checks all my boxes.Out of the female main characters in this book, Victoire is my favourite. She fits in so well with Ramy and Robin, not just because of their shared experiences as foreigners in a white country, but because their kindness and compassion equal each other. She is one of those friends that are always there when you need her, even if her own life is going downhill. She supported her friends, gave them strength, and stood beside them no matter what. Everyone needs a friend like that. As for my least favourite female character in this book, Letty is a friend of Ramy, Robin, and Victoire, and the only Caucasian in their group. While suffering a lot in her life as well, being a woman born into patriarchy, it was still not enough for me to like her, not that I was supposed to do so. She constantly manipulated her friends, even going as far as using her dead brother as a means to get her way, even though his death was traumatic for her. She was also unable to comprehend that her friends were struggling to live in a country that rejected, hated, and used them. She was a firm believer in the superiority and divinity of the white nation and appeared not to see it. Most of the time, I found her just as unbearable as her friends did. Even so, it was interesting to see her character arc, her ideologies, the reasons behind some decisions she made, and while she wasn't an inherently bad or evil person, she was still part of the problem that made her friends suffer.Have you read Babel? What did you think of it?
5364597410	i never do half stars but 4.75
5696765912	Po przemyśleniu decyzji- zostawiam 3 gwiazdki
3982678769	4/05/22 — r.f. kuang has truly done it again, babel blew away all my expectations and shattered the standards of the dark academia genre. she outmatched herself really and not just by causing even more extreme emotional damage as tpw trilogy had. kuang put her entire mind, heart and soul into the workings of this one, from the depths of knowledge on translation theory and linguistics to her distinct characterizations. the themes brought to the forefront of student revolution, decolonization in resisting colonial rule and its never ending ramifications along figuring out one’s place, accepting the role rooted in their identity of going against powerful nation of england, as it takes place in a fictionalized oxford. even so, ones in power still looks down upon them and their motherlands deeming them inferior, thinking that they “saved” students uprooting them from their homes that they gave them such privileges of studies and only prioritizing of what would be in england's best interest as babel students are expendable to them.trying to write as little spoilers as possible, though definitely want to write out a more thorough review closer to release date, with just endless pondering on my mind like one being my thoughts on our individual characters of robin, ramy, victoire, letty and more. with the way kuang articulated internal struggles on what it is like to be a foreigner in a country where there are people who will never truly accept ones as they are even as much they try to assimilate, it will never be enough for them and one loses their identity in the process of going about attempting to be accepted in their eyes. this being said, also her depictions of white fragility and the realization of how much they have to be comforted when their ideals are proven wrong, kuang wrote it so unerringly exact in the perspectives seen through this story.from the oxford campus atmosphere to seeing the rigorous language classes, pulling readers in feeling as if one were at the college with our main core four themselves. in how they go about their days in classes, at cafes, and familiar of the habits each one has, readers see the cohort of our four grow and depend on another so quickly. the found family dynamic of it all made my heart beyond full even though the early on foreshadowing, having its intended impact, shattered my soul having me terrified for what direction the storyline would go in. following these university students, seeing them at their happiest moments together up until they come to realizations of knowing they can’t be those blissful kids ever again in order to be loyal to their truest selves.the entire system of silver working that is woven into real times and history, but being fictional spearhead of power that the uk holds is complete utter genius down to its very details. simply inexplicable brilliance how it functions, the match-pairs needing two words of different languages but the user saying the term must in fluent in being able to think and dream in said language. the use of silver bars in daily necessities was very much reminder of current times with advanced technology such as AI and self-serve tech putting workers out of jobs. the numerous possibilities with the bars is clear why the characters say they feel like a god themselves when finding a match-pair that is a success.characters are put through the absolute wringer, particularly robin, ramy and victoire. i’m quite sure readers will love robin seeing everything he’s put through and his conflicts at every turn as he grapples with hard choices and it develops him tremendously. be sure to expect the definite usual in kuang’s writing style with her impressive use of foreshadowing, as tpw trilogy readers knowing she frankly does not just implement it without reason. additionally, her phenomenal plot twists, as in the beginning i thought i knew where the story was going with many of my theories proven true as the story went on. but all of sudden, rfk takes your head for a spin at precise moments and then you’re at a complete loss for words and terrified, no longer knowing where she’ll take the story and how it would all end.there’s no way to prepare for this novel at all, let the story and characters captivate your mind and feelings as kuang fills your brain with all things linguistics and the intricacies of translation theory, and gives you characters to love while causing an insane amount of suffering all the same.actual rating: 4.75 stars rounded upThank you to Avon and Harper Voyager for an e-arc via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
5828035466	my face while reading this book :
5003137524	I deeply disagree with this magic system's beliefs on semiotics, which is a sentence so profoundly sexy to me that it would have earned any book with decent fiction bones four and a half stars from jump. Alas.None of my intellectual disagreements with this book are relevant here; they're all based on the nature of language as symbol-signifier, the role of “mysticism” in medieval English religion, etc., which (to me) are all enormously interesting to think about and (literally just to me) enormously interesting to inflict on my friends and so on that level the book is a massive success. Unfortunately what a fiction book review is obligated to discuss is this book's work in fiction: characters, character relationships, pacing, and scenes, which are more or less nonexistent.There's a scene a little ways into this novel which begins, "Robin didn't realize what he had, what he'd been searching for and finally obtained, until one night halfway through term..." The scene goes on to describe the type of evening common to most college undergraduates, in which something mildly strange happens which the undergrads find hysterical, and continue to reference as a moment of incredible humor for years afterward, without really realizing that it does not amount to anything interesting to anyone who was not there—in this case, a smell whose source no one can locate. Further underscoring the reader's inability to share in the humor, the scene has no punchline; the source of the smell is never found. Rather, it ends, "Then [Robin] blinked, because he'd just registered what this most mundane and extraordinary moment meant—that in the space of several weeks, they had become what he'd never found... a circle of people he loved so fiercely his chest hurt when he thought about them. A family."One inside joke which leaves the reader cold does not a family make. But in fact my putting it this way is a little misleading—suggesting that if the joke had been funny to the reader, Robin's immediate, intense love for them would have been more convincing. I don't know that this is true. Of course this kind of rapid platonic love affair does exist in real life—again, undergraduates are its chief participants—and I suppose here I should put the inevitable reference to that classic college novel, Tartt's The Secret History, in which the hero Richard spends the first few chapters developing a passionate crush on several students he's never spoken to. But Tartt does not ask us to believe that Richard's feelings for his fellow students are “real” love—in fact it is quite clear throughout the book that they are an immature idealization of equally immature people whose emotional foundation consists almost entirely of class envy—and while Kuang tells us that this love is based instead on a shared outsider status among her characters, she opts to build this through exposition rather than through scenes and dialogue, which strongly limits her emotional impact. I note the scene above because it is one of the only scenes in the book whose primary purpose is to illustrate the sort of relationship Robin and his friends have—what it would be like to be a fly on the wall of their rooms, what feelings they have—and it is one of the only scenes in the book that might allow us to enter into and share Robin's love for them, which is another reason Kuang's choice to build the scene around an “untranslatable” inside joke feels a little weak.But it would be less egregious if there were any characters in the book whose relationships were the least bit stronger. Of Robin's life in Oxford, we are told, “It stunned him, how quickly he fell in love with the place and the people. He hadn't even noticed it happening.” Of Robin's attempts to manage his double life as a smuggler and an enthusiastic academic, we are told, “It turned out this was very easy to do.” Of any potential troubles in Robin's friends' relationship, we are told, “Still, their fights could not really pull them apart. Rather, these arguments only drew them closer together... and defined the ways they fitted differently into the puzzle of their cohort.” Of Robin's immensely condescending brother, who Robin meets by happening to bump into his smuggling ring doing crime out in the open on an Oxford square, we are told, “You've simply got to trust me. There's no other way... Trust me. Trust that we're doing the right thing... Will you join us?” (Robin says yes, apparently entirely out of an understanding that if he says no the author will be unable to continue with the plot.) Of the city of London, Robin's first glimpse of the country that has ruined half the world and declared itself the pinnacle of civilization, we are told, “Robin saw immediately that London was, like Canton, a city of contradictions and multitudes, as was any city that acted as a mouth to the world.” You'll forgive me if I feel a little as if I'm reading an essay by a freshman poli-sci major.I should note that this book is in a relationship with the Victorian novel—Dickens in particular is cited repeatedly, and one character explicitly compares the hero to Oliver Twist—and with the Oxford novel (in particular both the sublimated/undiscussed gay attraction in Waugh's Brideshead Revisited and the author's note defending the inclusion of a new building at Oxford in Sayers' Gaudy Night). I am not sure whether the author intended Babel to be a pastiche of the nineteenth-century novel (as Cho's Sorcerer to the Crown or Clarke's Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell are)—if she did, she failed, so I will assume instead that she intended to deliberately borrow certain stylistic elements and abandon others. In fact there's a passage on translation where I'm inclined to believe the author is deliberately laying out the book's theory of prose style:"'Virgil belonged to a particular time and place. Isn't it more unfaithful to strip all that away, to make him speak like any Englishman you might run into on the street?' … 'Is it not also unfaithful to make Virgil sound like a stuffy foreigner, rather than a man you would happily carry on a conversation with?... And all the well-known translators in Persia favoured the “spirit” of translation rather than word-for-word accuracy—indeed, they often found it appropriate to change European names into Persian and replace aphorisms in the target language with Persian verse and proverbs. Was that wrong, do you think? Unfaithful?'"There is a very generous reading of this book where this paragraph explains why characters in this text reference aphorisms from the 1940s, essays from the 1960s, and memes from the 2010s. That reading is probably going a little far. Let us say instead that this paragraph explains why Kuang “splits the baby” stylistically, choosing to have a narrator who is sometimes omniscient and at other times deeply limited to the understanding and perspective of the hero, and heroes who exist in a firmly Victorian colonialism but use firmly modern language to describe that colonialism.I suppose I just disagree with the premise that the nineteenth century, or the nineteenth-century English novel, needs to be “translated”. The past is another country, yes, but it is a country whose citizens established thriving settlements in our own, of which the novel is one of the most successful and lasting. The effect is a little like trying to watch Philadelphia with someone who keeps elbowing you to say, “Hey, I know this is confusing, but just remember, that guy with AIDS is really David S. Pumpkins.” First of all, is he? Second of all, in what possible universe would any human being need this explained?But even putting this qualm aside, there is nothing wrong with a blend of strong stylistic choices pulled from various genres, and in fact I wish it were done more often. There is something wrong with a blend of stylistic choices if an author never quite commits to any of them. A book can have a narrator whose vocabulary is at once coarse, humorous, and esoteric, despite the seeming oppositions between crudity and abstruseness; a book cannot have a narrator whose stylistic limits vary from chapter to chapter, or even paragraph to paragraph, depending on the momentary requirements of the plot. Seeming self-contradiction is a sleight of hand used by masters who hope you'll see the solid bones beneath the changing costumes; genuine inconsistency is a cheap trick used by college freshmen who hope you won't see anything at all.R.F. Kuang is not a college freshman. She is brilliant. Her magic system is deeply original, her relation of the economic-military history clear, cogent, and fascinating. Above all, she is perfectly capable of writing scenes. This book's opening, in which a man picks his way through a household of the dying to fetch a child, plays on the reader's sensory and ethical disgust like a grand pianist; another scene, (view spoiler)[depicting a murder, (hide spoiler)] makes use of the book's complex relationship with action and narrative distance with such grace that the line break in “Professor Lovell pushed his chair back and stood. / The origins of the word anger were tied closely to physical suffering.” immediately became one of my favorite line breaks of all time. This was a very, very good idea for a book, in the hands of an author with immense potential. If she had had a publisher who had bothered to ask her to write scenes rather than summarizing them—to make choices rather than half-making them—a publisher who had bothered to care for this book rather than relying on the certainty that TikTok would sell it for them, Kuang might have actually written it.The Russian word for “disappoint” is разочаровать: раз-, meaning “not”, -овать, making the word a verb, and чар, meaning “witchcraft; sorcery; spell”. To disappoint someone, in the most literal sense of etymology, is to fail at doing magic.
5129961782	One of the most profound reads of 2022. An original, thought provoking, and researched work of friendship, betrayal, colonialism, revolution—and magic. I came away feeling enlightened by its richness after having finished. A masterpiece.
4124927792	Zapomniałam odznaczyć 5 gwiazdek, dla książki, którą sobie wymarzyłam. No poza tym zakończeniem. Dzięki Rebecca. Znowu.
4663703366	❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ “Languages aren’t just made of words. They’re modes of looking at the world. They’re the keys to civilization. And that’s knowledge worth killing for.”Babel, or The Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators' Revolution is an incendiary indictment against colonialism. Within this superbly written slow-burner of a bildungsroman, R.F. Kuang presents her readers with an extensive critique of eurocentrism, scientific racism, white supremacy, elitist institutions and the hoarding of knowledge, and British imperialism that is by turns didactic and impassioned. If you are a reader who isn’t particularly into nonfiction but you are keen on familiarizing yourself with discourses on colonialism, decolonization, and postcolonialism, or are interested in linguistics (translation, interpretation, language contact), or learning more about the circumstances that led to the First Opium War, you should definitely consider picking Babel up. Babel is a rare example of how—in the right hands—telling can be just as effective a storytelling method as ‘showing’. Kuang’s storytelling is quite frankly superb. And not only is the narration immersive and encompassing, but it is also informative and thought-provoking. Undoubtedly readers will feel angry by what they will read, and the unrelenting racism, discrimination, physical and emotional violence experienced by the story’s protagonist, Robin. This is a decidedly heavy-going story. And yet, thanks to Kuang’s bravura display of storytelling, readers will find themselves persevering, despite the foreshadowing that presages worse is to come…The majority of the novel takes place in an alternate 1830s Oxford where Babel, the University's Royal Institute of Translation, is the ‘pioneering’ centre of translation and 'silver-working', an act that catches what is lost in translation and manifests it into being. After cholera decimated his family, Robin, a boy from Canton, is whisked away from China to London by the imperious Professor Lovell, who happens to be a renowned professor at Babel. Robin has no choice but to follow and obey Professor Lovell’s strict study regimens. Not only does Professor Lovell impose a punitive lifestyle on Robin, forcing him to dedicate his every waking moment to the study and learning of languages, but he devests him of his ‘former’ name and makes him relinquish any remembrances of his former life. Additionally, Professor Lovell subjects Robin to many forms of abuse: from spewing ethnocentric and white supremacist speeches, to physically ‘punishing’ Robin. Growing up in this environment Robin grows to resent his ‘mentor’, and yet, even so he is desperate to belong. Besides his tutors and Professor Lovell, Robin only really interacts with his mentor’s housekeeper, who, despite being the only person to show him any tenderness, is nevertheless complicit in Professor Lovell’s continued abuse of him. Robin’s childhood is not a happy one, in fact, it is not really a childhood at all. The setting combined with the misery of it all brought to mind the work of Charles Dickens. Unlike Dickens’ heroes, Robin is not only disadvantaged by his being an orphan but by not being white, something that ultimately makes him a very un-Dickensian character. Professor Lovell’s oppressive ‘rule’ instils in Robin a sense of fear: while he does have a lot of questions (how did the professor find him? why him? why is he 'bestowing' on him such an education? what will await him at babel?) he is weary about disobeying him. Moving to Oxford opens Robin up to a world that is both awe-inspiring and terrible. At Babel he can master languages in even more depth, he can be surrounded by hundreds of years of knowledge, and by (supposedly) like-minded individuals.“They’d been chosen for privileges they couldn’t have ever imagined, funded by powerful and wealthy men whose motives they did not fully understand, and they were acutely aware these could be lost at any moment. That precariousness made them simultaneously bold and terrified. They had the keys to the kingdom; they did not want to give them”But even Babel has its own set of hierarchies, which prioritize whiteness and European cultures and languages. While Babel, unlike other colleges at Oxford, admits a more diverse student body, compared to his white peers, Robin is treated with a mixture of fascination and disdain. The older students seem unwilling to mingle with first-years so inevitably Robin becomes close to his cohort: Ramy, Victoire, and Letty.Robin and Ramy become particularly close, and their bond is one of the novel’s strengths. It isn’t a particularly straightforward relationship but their similar experiences and circumstances intensify their kinship. There is a chapter relatively early in the novel that focuses on their early days getting to know each other which was immeasurably bittersweet.“[This] circle of people he loved so fiercely his chest hurt when he thought about them. A family. He felt a crush of guilt then for loving them, and Oxford, as much as he did. He adored it here; he really did. For all the daily slights he suffered, walking through campus delighted him.”You feel such relief for Robin to have found someone who just gets what it means to be seen as ‘other’, to be treated as ‘inferior’, 'un-English', and to have been deracinated from their homelands and to feel such contrasting emotions at being at Oxford, an institution that upholds racist ideologies. In this ‘alternate’ setting this contrition is even more felt given the role that Babel plays in silver-working and of how silver bars are enabling the British empire to amass even more power and wealth and to further ‘expand’. Robin believes that by staying at Babel, he is surviving. Ramy however is more openly critical of Britain. The duo is later joined by Letty and Victoire, who, being girls are also subjected to discrimination. Like the boys, Victoire, who is Black and was born in Haiti, has an extremely fraught relationship with Babel. Letty, who is white and was born and raised in Britain in a relatively well off family, is in some ways the odd one out. Yet, she seems intent on portraying herself as a victim, in any circumstance really, often referring to her own experience with misogyny to negate Robin, Ramy, and Victoire's experiences with racism and colonialism. Additionally, her brother died, which Lety, we are both told and shown this, uses to earn her ‘friends’ sympathy. We are meant to hate her, and hate her I did. Imagine the most annoying aspects of Hermione Granger’s character and you have Letty (stubborn, sanctimonious, a stickler for rules). She is a colonialist apologist who, despite being ‘exposed’ to the perspectives/realities of people who have been colonized or have experienced violence at the hands of the British empire, remains firm in her stance (we learn this quite early on so i don’t think it’s that much of a spoiler). I recently came across this quote by Oksana Zabuzhko, a Ukrainian writer, that very much applies to people like Letty: “This is what power really is: the privilege of ignoring anything you might find distasteful.’ Certainly, we can see why at first Robin, Victoire, and Ramy would not oppose Letty’s presence in their group. These opinions have been instilled in her by her upbringing. But, when the months and years go by and Letty's belief in the British empire remains unwavering…well…her presence in the group didn't make much sense. I couldn’t fathom why the others would keep her around. I get that she existed to make a point, and sadly I know people like her (who resort to self-victimization whenever confronted with anything resembling criticism, who believe themselves to be 'nice' and 'kind' but only have empathy for themselves) but I just found her beyond irritating and obnoxious. She has no redeeming qualities. And it annoyed me that she took the center stage in many of the group interactions and took away page-time from characters like Ramy and Victoire. I wish she could have been pushed to the sidelines more, and maybe for her then to take more of a role when sh*t starts going down. But I digress.At Babel Robin finally learns more about silver bars and dio mio, it isn’t good. He learns just how powerful language can be and has to reconcile himself with the knowledge that he is contributing to the enrichment of the British empire. Robin is approached by a member of a secret organization, Hermes Society, whose aim is to sabotage the silver-working that goes on at Babel and disrupt the status quo. Robin feels at a crossroad, damned if he does, damned if he doesn't. While he does still experience racism and discrimination at Babel, it is there that he can access knowledge that would otherwise not be accessible to him. And, of course, it is there that he was able to meet Ramy and Victoire (i should really include letty because robin does care for her but i cannot bring myself to). Babel also has shielded him away from Professor Lovell, who he now sees only on rare occasions, and given him the kind an opportunity that many others will never have...but that doesn't make him unaware of how, beneath its 'enlightened' veneer, Babel is rotten. Can he help Hermes Society if their acts of sabotage include or result in violence? Is violence inevitable in a revolution? And by choosing not to act does he become a cog that keeps the British empire running?“He hated this place. He loved it. He resented how it treated him. He still wanted to be a part of it – because it felt so good to be a part of it, to speak to its professors as an intellectual equal, to be in on the great game.” Robin is torn between his hatred for the British empire and the safety he believes he can only experience at Babel. Kuang renders his inner conflict with painful accuracy and extreme empathy. While other characters may be critical of Robin’s unwillingness to ‘choose’, readers won’t be as ready, and in fact, they will find themselves unable to judge him. He tries to help but inevitably his indecision leads the Hermes Society to decide for him. It is only when Robin is forced to confront the consequences of the opium trade—on China, on the Chinese population, and on the Indian farmers who harvested it—that he finds himself ready to act. But, things do not exactly pan out as the story takes us on a The Secret History kind of detour that will undoubtedly appeal to fans of whydunnits and dark academia. While the atmosphere prior to this event was by no means light-hearted after this happens Kuang ups the tension all the way up. The shifting dynamics within and outside of Robin’s group also change, and not necessarily for the better. And the stakes are just sky-high. Like the summary says, Babel ‘grapples with student revolutions, colonial resistance, and the use of translation as a tool of empire’. We witness the many forms that power takes, and one of them is in fact language. Language can be in fact a tool of oppression. Kuang’s interrogation of the act of translation is utterly compelling. My mum is a translator and I am bilingual (yet have a foreign accent in both italian & english *insert tiny violin here*) and have recently started studying two other languages. Suffice to say, whenever I see a book exploring linguistics, I am interested (be it sci-fi like Arkady Martine's Teixcalaan series, literary fiction such as Batuman's The Idiot, or nonfiction like Lahiri's In Other Words). And Kuang really presents us with so many interesting facts and insights into translation and untranslatability. Kuang pays incredible attention to words and their various meanings, which truly enriches Robin’s story and his experiences at Babel. Kuang discusses contact-induced change (which sometimes results in language death) and reading about it even feel guilty about having neglected my ‘mother-tongue’ (on a side note: i have noticed that here in england people seem less interested in learning languages as they rely on english being the most widely spoken language worldwide…). While Kuang does acknowledge Morse code, braille and sign language and other nonverbal forms of communication do not really get a mention which is a pity. Nevertheless, Kuang presents us with such nuanced discussions around language and translation, I loved the attention she pays to the etymology of words, double meanings, doublespeak, and the ambiguity of language and interpretation…“In Classical Chinese, the characters 二心 referred to disloyal or traitorous intentions; literally, they translated as ‘two hearts’. And Robin found himself in the impossible position of loving that which he betrayed, twice.”Like I said early on, the writing sometimes shifts into a telling mode, so we have swaths of time which are summarized into a few lines, or certain events or arguments are related to us indirectly. But, Kuang storytelling is such that what we are being told feels incredibly vivid and—for the better and worse—immersive. Some of the lectures Robin attends may occasionally seem a bit too long or pedantic, and I wasn’t always keen on the footnotes (more on that later), but I was never bored. Robin is such a compelling narrator and my heart went out to him. This povero ragazzo really can’t catch a break. And when he finds some solace, with Ramy and Victoire, we have Letty to stir things up or spoil the group’s rare moments of contentment. He hates Professor Lowell who is just so f*cking despicable and full of vitriol but also ‘perversely’ wants to earn his approval. He is also burdened by the realization that as the years go by he struggles to recall his mother and his early years in China. Once in England and under Professor Lowell’s ‘tutelage’ Robin feels caught in a constant state of alterity: while the story mentions that there are occasions where he can ‘pass’, he experiences overt racism, disenfranchisement, and microaggressions on the daily. And he isn’t given the tools or words to express this profound sense of injustice and alienation. Ramy and Victoire become his lifelines as he is finally given the chance to try to name the difficult thoughts and feelings he experiences living in a country that sees him and those like him as ‘barbarians’. Speaking of barbarians, I really appreciated how Kuang highlights the irony and hypocrisy of those British people who will claim that the people they are colonizing or waging war against are ‘violent’, ‘savages’, and ‘uncivilized’ and therefore deserving of being colonized, oppressed, and killed. ‘How strange,’ said Ramy. ‘To love the stuff and the language, but to hate the country.’‘Not as odd as you’d think,’ said Victoire. ‘There are people, after all, and then there are things.’ I found Robin to be such an endearing character. Kuang captures the disorientation of living somewhere where you are and will always be perceived as a perpetual foreigner. His longing for a place to belong to is truly heart-wrenching. He is not flawless but I genuinely believe that he always tries his hardest to do good by others. Sometimes self-preservation kicks in and he finds himself at a standstill. He feels a moral obligation to help the Hermes Society but is not quite ready to be responsible for the destruction of Babel. Yet, when he realizes that he is becoming complicit in the injustices perpetrated by Babel..well, he has to question whether his loyalties can even align with those responsible for maintaining unjust systems of power. “Yet didn’t he have a right to be happy? He had never felt such warmth in his chest until now, had never looked forward to getting up in the morning as he did now. Babel, his friends, and Oxford – they had unlocked a part of him, a place of sunshine and belonging, that he never thought he’d feel again. The world felt less dark now. He was a child starved of affection, which he now had in abundance – and was it so wrong for him to cling to what he had? He was not ready to commit fully to Hermes. But by God, he would have killed for any of his cohort.” Ramy, who is more impassioned and outspoken, balances Robin perfectly. Their shared moments together do have certain undercurrents but these remain largely unspoken. And in some ways, it is this elision that made it all the more obvious. Letty…I have said enough about her. She, similarly to Professor Lovell, remains unchanged throughout the course of the narrative. We know the kind of people they are from the very first and I am afraid that in some ways Letty is worse than Professor Lovell. Her acts of self-dramatization and victim playing drove me up the walls. Victoire was sadly underused. Her characterization sometimes relied too much on opposing Letty’s one (we will have letty responding in a sh*tty way to something and then we will get a different response from victoire who usually acts as a pacifier). I just would have liked less page-time spent on Letty—who, however believable she is, is neither an interesting nor compelling character—and more on Victoire. In the latter half of the novel, Victoire is given more room to breathe but due to the pace of the plot, the storyline can't really focus on her.I liked how many secondary characters come into play in the latter half of the novel and I was surprised by the role some of them play in the story.Reading about Britain’s ‘past exploits’ is by no means fun. Yet, somehow, Kuang is able to make Robin’s story wholly captivating and hard to put down. The anxiety I felt for him, and later on Ramy and Victoire, made me go through this nearly 500+ pages tome of a book at a relatively fast speed. There is much to be admired in Babel. [due to word count the rest of the review is in the comment section or alternatively here]
4941761581	In a Nutshell: This was mind-blowing! The personal connect for me as an Indian might have made a little difference but even without that, the impeccable weaving together of facts and fiction with a tinge of magic astounded me. NOTE: This has been classified as a fantasy. It is not so. Go in with the right expectations. Magical realism fits the content better, though it is mainly ‘dark academia’.Story Synopsis:Robin Swift, a Cantonese orphan, is brought to England by his mysterious guardian and trained in classical languages such as Greek and Latin as well as Mandarin (though he knows Cantonese.) Robin knows his destination once he grows up. He is to join Babel, the Royal Institute of Translation at Oxford. Babel begins as a paradise for geeky Robin, with its endless books, scholars and ‘silver-working’. However, soon he discovers that things aren’t as hunky-dory as they appear. Desperate times call for desperate measures, and it soon boils down to how far Robin is willing to go? How much will he be willing to sacrifice for Babel?The story comes to us mostly in the third person limited perspective of Robin, with a couple of brief interludes providing a glimpse into the lives of his close friends.Where the book worked for me:✔ For a change, the audio ARC had an author’s note, and more importantly, this was right at the start of the book. It clearly delineated how much was fact and how much fiction.✔ The book presents an alternative history narration of Oxford in the 1830s. But it does such a thorough job that the lines between fact and fiction begin to blur. The author’s research is impeccable, and it shows. I’ve never been to Oxford and yet it came alive before my eyes through the author’s words. ✔ The “magical” part in the story involves using silver and translated words to enhance/add functionality to various objects. It sounds silly when I write it, but it is nicely incorporated into the storyline. The fictional ‘silver revolution’ is supposedly the cause of the real-life industrial revolution, thus the author skilfully takes many real developments such as the steam engine and the telegraph machine and adds her ‘silver magic’ to historical facts. Yet again, kudos to her research. ✔ Just like a scholarly research tome, the book contains quite a few footnotes. Some of this are real incidents, most are fictional. However, their presentation was so authentic that I couldn’t help be dazzled by them. They added just the right level of background detailing to the plot.✔ The dual identity of the narrator Robin comes out well. While his Cantonese roots make him want to be loyal to China, his British upbringing and education and privilege also makes him want to fit in his adopted country and be of value there. The complications of “belonging” to a one country while resembling a citizen of another are covered well, as are the ideas of racial and colour-based prejudice. ✔ Having a few Indian characters in key roles did add to my fun. Where the book still worked for me but might not work for other readers:⚠ I geek out on lingual content. So this book was like a treasure chest for me, what with numerous elaborations on word etymologies, languages, translations, and the interconnection between the tongues spoken across the world. (The author’s background as a translator and scholar reveals itself through these nuggets.) Loved every bit of the vocabulary-related elements. However, if you aren’t too fond of such subject matter, you might be a little bored because there is plenty of it in this book.⚠ I feel a part of your experience of this book will depend on your own ethnicity and your stance on colonial rule. (Note that I said ‘experience of this book’, not whether you will like it or not.) I am an Indian, and while I don’t believe in continued finger-pointing at what happened in the past--(it’s been 76 years since independence! High time we focus on the future instead of crying about the past, right?)—I still fume at what was done to my nation by those “rulers”. The book doesn’t just focus on the ruthless side of colonial thinking but depicts it in an equally ruthless manner, with no concessions or compromises afforded to the colonial governments. Reading it was almost cathartic! It felt good to see the colonial powers of the past get a taste of their own medicine.⚠ I knew where things were going towards the finale because the proceedings seemed very much like that the climax of a cult favourite Hindi movie of the mid- 2000s. (If I tell you the name of the movie, the end of the book will be spoilt for you.) Realising the similarity helped me be somewhat better prepared for the end, otherwise I might have been disappointed by it.⚠ I went into this assuming it was a historical fiction. Seeing the fantastical elements surprised me, but I loved them anyway. I later realised that this book has been classified variously as “Fantasy”. “Urban Fantasy”, “Science Fiction Fantasy”, and “Historical Fantasy.” I think it would be better if you don’t look at it as a Fantasy because that aspect is not the dominant factor in the story. As I said in my initial note, Magical Realism is the best description of the ‘fantasy’ content in the book. You keep that in mind, and you won’t feel let down by the lack of magical world-building and complicated fantastical components.Where the book could have worked better for me:❌ The final quarter becomes too dark and slightly farfetched. (I do see how it was the best direction for the story, but that doesn’t mean I had to like it.)❌ Most of the Whites are villainous and the people of other ethnicities akin to heroes. It seemed somewhat like reverse discrimination. I wish it wouldn’t have been so caricaturish of the Whites. ❌ It was way too long. Having the audiobook helped, but some content in the second half could have been easily trimmed. The audiobook experience:The audiobook clocks at a massive 21 hrs 46 min. But when the narrators are great, the length really doesn’t matter much. The main story is narrated by Chris Lew Kum Hoi, and the footnotes are voiced by Billie Fulford-Brown. This dual narration technique works very well for the story because there are an abundant number of footnotes in the content. Having a female voiceover for them makes it easier for us to understand when the book has shifted from the main content (voiced by the male narrator) to the footnote and back again. Both of the narrators do an excellent job. Considering the length and writing style of this tome, the audiobook is definitely the way to go if you read audiobooks. There is a downloadable PDF map on the publisher’s site if you want a glimpse of Oxford while hearing the story.I have been impressed many times by either characters or plots, but this is the first time ever a third factor has surpassed both of these – research. How well reality has been fitted around fantasy! I am simply amazed at the mind of this young author. The book does have flaws but in the grand scheme of things, the flaws appear minuscule. Strongly and wholeheartedly recommended. 4.5 stars.My thanks to HarperCollins UK Audio and NetGalley for the ALC of “Babel: Or the Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators’ Revolution”. This review is voluntary and contains my honest opinion about the audiobook.———————————————Connect with me through: My Blog | The StoryGraph | Facebook | Twitter
5478723961	повний відгук на моєму YouTube каналі: https://youtu.be/VclFrKHiaWw?si=wG3eV...хто я? жертва хайпу. чи я розчарована книгою? так.чи це було передбачувано? теж так.книга дійсно гарно написана, пропрацьована тема лінгвістики та етимології слів. та й з плюсів цієї книги це все. авторка критикує не імперіалізм як явище, а лише суто Британську імперію. забуває, що Китай теж імперія і досить багато зробила поганих речей, геноциди та пригнічення народів на території Китаю. це лицемірство. Кван каже про те, яка Британія погана, при тому зовсім не вважає за потрібне критикувати і Китайську імперію. і так, ця письменниця видає свої книги на росії, хоча робила офіційну заяву, що не буде це робити. але ця заява кудись зникла з її акаунту. тому, імперія погана, але лише та, яка не подобається конкретно Кван. головний герой — це просто якийсь мішок з кісток, котрий вірить всім та про все, не маючи власної думки. інші головні герої зливаються в одне, тому що ці персонажі створені, щоб транслювати ідеї письменниці, а не для того, щоб ми розуміли проблематику та критику. сюжет передбачуваний та теж існує лише для того, щоб підкреслити правильну думку Кван. ти не маєш права думати своєю головою. тобі, як читачеві, сама Кван і пояснить, а що є погано, добре, як треба думати і думати тільки так, як написано. книга душна та тісна. і навіщо на кожній сторінці існують ці безкінечні примітки, котрі не додають сенсу сюжету та розкриття персонажів? це для того, щоб авторка похизувалася, яка вона розумна? ок, ми зрозуміли, дякую. в магічний світ я теж не повірила. як тільки починалися описи світобудови, то ці описи одразу ж переривалися критикою поганої імперії. зрештою, Кван створила не альтернативну історію Англії Вікторіанської епохи, а в лоб зробила переказ історії лише з додаванням магії срібла. її герої не відповідають часу та контексту історії, а просто виголошують сучасні наративи. ну припустимо. та й куди ж без маніпуляцій думкою читачів, стереотипів, суперечностей у власних ідеях? все вірно. нікуди. тому, в книзі ви теж це знайдете. цю книгу в моїх очах врятувало лише те, що відчувається, яка велика дослідницька робота була зроблена для того, щоб твір було написано. такий гарний потенціал книги зіпсовано таким тупим лицемірством та лінню адекватно прописати персонажів.
5900887514	Wow. RF Kuang……… wow. This is a masterpiece, no doubt about it. I went in expecting a fantasy book, and I instead got a masterclass dissection of colonialism, race, and language, with heavy emotional beats and philosophical musings. Kuang takes her time to build up to the tense parts of this book, and in my opinion it’s completely necessary that she does so in order for the reader to fully understand the implications of the overall plot not just on our characters, but the people they represent. This story feels important, urgent, and passionate. Kuang clearly feels strongly about these topics and does an amazing job at bringing forth that emotion. I only leave off half a star because I personally wasn’t always as engaged with some of the more academic-heavy parts of the story, though they never truly bogged it down for me. I think labeling this as a fantasy book is almost a stretch, however. There are hardly any fantasy elements to speak of. But it doesn’t matter to me, as that was never the point of the book. Kuang has crafted something truly special here.4.5 stars
4829633722	L I S T E N ! I never said I was the appropriate audience. I never said my intellectual skills would be up to par with Mrs. Rebecca Kuang. I recognize the brilliance of the world building and the depth of the development. But hotdamn did I not care.I wanted to so bad. That's what I want you to understand. But it never happened for me.I love the representation this book held. It has misogny, racism, xeniphobia, homophobia and so much more rapped in a predominately white and male setting of Oxford. For that, I commend it.But for plot and execution, I am underwhelmed.
5132279954	babel, they could never make me hate you.i didn't read the reviews on this until i was almost done and my opinion was already a foregone conclusion, but i was really surprised by a lot of the negativity i found. not that there's anything wrong with that--god knows i've hated enough people's favorite books--but it confused me that so many people found it too boring and too repetitive and too long. and of course all the 4s and 5s were short and didn't really explain, which is why i want to.because, in short, i LOVED this.in long, i can barely see what everyone else disliked, and that's when you know it's real.1. i don't think it reads like a textbook. as one of the millions failed by the american high school history curriculum, i love learning about history now since i don't know so much about it.it was very history dense, as it is set in 1830 in england, and it does have a tendency to prattle on about the political context of the time. but i kind of liked it, it's really interesting.2. i didn't think it was that repetitive. at least, not to the point that it bothered me. sure, the themes of colonialism stay exactly the same all the way through and come up a lot, but i found that worked well since the main characters and their actions and ideas regarding colonialism evolve so much throughout the story.3. i don't think it's too long--i liked it better for how long it was (that's what she said). i haven't felt this way about a book in a while. i got so involved for so many pages that it's like i lived a whole life in there and saw so much change and growth and now it's just over, so now i'm grieving. for me, this was like how involved you get in a big old fantasy series, but better, because this is based on real things so the whole time i could relate it to so many points in history and it's like watching history unfold. magic.speaking of magic, i loved the magic too. guys, it's magical realism. it's not fantasy and it's not a historical account, or else it would be called that. maybe i'm just a pleb (a possibility), but i loved the magic and i think she did the balance between the two really well.and also shut the fuck up i think those footnotes are the best thing since sliced bread. sure, some of them felt a little arbitrary, and it's worth noting that I was reading the ebook so that made it much easier, but i enjoyed them. the whole story is seen through the life and thoughts of Robin, and the footnotes were just fun little additional anecdotes from an omnipresent narrator, which i thought was really cool.anyways, i have more thoughts on the subject matter itself, but that's all that i really wanted people to know, so i'll just wait until someone i know reads it and spew it all then.i just wanted to say that it’s not all bad. just because some people don’t like it, doesn’t mean you won’t, so i recommend!but one last thing.a rebuttal to one especially vitriolic review i unfortunately found. (see? be stupid enough and i'll feature you too!)yes, in this book, white people are the bad guys. yes, that is a major theme. no, that's not racism and no, that's not even a bad thing.what you don't seem to understand is empathy. empathy isn't an emotion, it's a skill, and one that so many people either don't have to or don't bother to develop. because for hundreds of years, and even still today, white people were the bad guys. to billions of people.to billions of people, white people ruined their lives and their land and their families. for no reason other than that they weren't white.so it isn’t people of color or radical leftists “making this a race thing.” it became “a race thing” when white people murdered non-white people for hundreds of years because they weren’t white people and because they could. so, yes, that is a perspective that a lot of people have held and still do hold. in an ideal world, that wouldn't exist, but this isn't an ideal world. it must be known that it doesn't exist out of hate or even racism, it exists out of necessity, which isn't nearly the same thing.just because it isn't how you would like to see the world, doesn't mean it isn't important and shouldn't be taken into consideration. that's called empathy.and for fuck's sake, colonialism is bad. sure, remnants of colonialism live on in its colonies, and sure, some of those remnants aren't harmful. but their existence is at the cost of native traditions and values that no longer exist due to forced assimilation and subjugation. so yes, bad.
6829089097	౨ৎ ⋮ Empire needed extraction. Violence shocked the system, because the system could not cannibalize itself and survive. The hands of the Empire were tied, because it could not raze that from which it profited.in a quaint little town of goodreads, there lived a girl named vee who crossed paths with another girl named fadhee. their friendship blossomed, and together they discovered a mysterious gem. initially, they were filled with curiosity, unaware that this gem would lead to their downfall. as days turned into weeks, the heartache from the book they found lingered, leaving them struggling to move on from the pain it brought into their lives. the end.⊹🗝 tropes:⤿ dark academia ⤿ bullying⤿ found family ⤿ betrayal ⤿ historical fiction─ TW: alcohol, assault, blood, child abuse, death of a parent, drugs, emesis, fire, gun violence, misogyny, murder, needles, racism, religion, sexism, sexual harassment, slavery, torture, violence౨ৎ ⋮ Translation means doing violence upon the original, means warping and distorting it for foreign, unintended eyes. So then where does that leave us? How can we conclude, except by acknowledging that an act of translation is then necessarily always an act of betrayal?babel by r.f. kuang is a captivating dark academia novel set in the 1800s, during the era of british colonization. the story delves into the harsh realities of racism and slavery, exploring the struggles and challenges faced by individuals during this tumultuous period. kuang has also mentioned about different languages and cultures in this book.the story follows four students who embark on their journey at babel, where they aim to master various languages. the book features a fascinating magic system involving silver bars infused with magical properties. these bars only unleash their power when the students engrave specific words and their translations, showcasing the profound connection between language and magic.౨ৎ ⋮ She learned revolution is, in fact, always unimaginable. It shatters the world you know. The future is unwritten, brimming with potential. The colonizers have no idea what is coming, and that makes them panic. It terrifies them.talking about this book. honestly, i'm at a loss for words. after finishing it, i feel utterly heartbroken, sad, and numb. this isn't the usual genre i gravitate towards. it was a refreshing departure from my typical reads. the story's setting, the characters, the pacing, the plot, and the writing are all exceptional. the magic system crafted in this narrative is simply breathtaking. admittedly, there were moments filled with information overload that made it challenging for both me and fadhee to push through the middle sections. however, the final quarter of the book shattered us completely. the plot twists came crashing down like a series of falling dominoes. the conclusion struck me right in the heart, leaving a lasting impact that i don't think i'll ever fully recover from. i won't be penning an extensive review because, well, haha. robin, ramy, and victoire will forever hold a special place in my heart. mother kuang can finally adopt us. ౨ৎ ⋮ "Be selfish, he whispered. Be brave."— ( ⛸️ ) pre-read review ⊹⤿ 09.08.2024get ready, because i'm about to jump into my most eagerly awaited read of the month with my fabulous bestie fadheela 🤍 honestly, i'm in the worst reading slump ever, so fingers crossed this book works its magic and pulls me out of it 🕺
3983038098	EDITED: i changed my rating for this book because i felt like the colonialism was so obviously it would jump off the page but after seeing some reviews by white readers it seems like RFK is a young profit. check out my full thoughts here: https://youtu.be/uYVbZqfvO3Uall of my anticipated releases of 2022 being 2 stars reads just shows how fucking terrible 2022 was for me. let’s just get right into it. i didn’t care. i didn’t care about what was going on. i didn’t care about the plot. i didn’t care about the characters. not like RFK gave them any personality to care for them anyways, which sucks cus my favorite thing about the poppy war was the characters. this book was just so boring like it followed the mundane every day life of robin when it really should’ve spent it’s time giving the characters personalities besides one trait each. by the time the plot did come into the book i was just bored out of my mind that i couldn’t bring myself to care. the only reason i finished is because i had been reading since 5am and i was very dedicated to my reading vlog i’m filming for this book. so disappointing especially because it’s RFK and dark academia :/
4965227309	best book i've read all year
4999197320	"Translation was impossible, the realm of pure meaning it captured and manifested would and could not ever be known."I write quotes out every time I read a book so that when I'm done I can find the perfect one to capture the heart of a story. It's become my favorite part of reading. It's interactive and it always gives me something to look forward to when I turn the final page and there is an inevitable end. It's been a very long time since I didn't want an end to come.I'm so in awe of this book that I think I'm in denial that it actually finished. How can it be done? How can a story like this one end? How is this fiction?For the first half of Babel I was entranced by the writing, the story-telling, the set-up and the world. I was transported to the past and enriched by the theory of translation. I was essentially on a readers high. The kind where you forget you're reading at all. For the latter half, I was breathless. I don't think I have ever read a fictional book that so truthfully explained reality. As it's written, "It's hard to accept what you don't want to see."That's not what I want to talk about, though. I want to talk about translation. I want to talk about the metaphor of silver bars representing a foundation of not only listening, but understanding as well. When you make a new friend, much like Robin did at the start of this, you spend so much time giving information. You spend so much time trying to tell them who you are that you forget they want to tell you who they are as well.All anyone wants, as Ramy says to Robin, is to show themselves to the world and hope someone else understands them.That's what I got from this book. It's a boy stolen from his homeland and told that he has to be thankful for a privilege he never asked for. A privilege he was never made to feel like he deserved. A privilege he only ever felt like he stole. All because he had a mind willing to understand, comprehend and dream with.So many things get lost in translation, even when you speak the same language. It's the listening, and the ability to dance in shackles that becomes so much more important. When at a party where Robin is meant to feel down about himself, he uses the term "dance in shackles" to explain how translation truly works. He says that, "The poet runs untrammeled across the meadow. The translator dances in shackles."I think that's such a beautiful analogy. An author, a writer, a poet... they get to express how they feel in the language they speak. They tell us exactly what they mean, exactly what they want to convey, and it's the translator who needs to understand it so completely that they can bring that meaning into a different language. Essentially a different world. A different culture sometimes. How can we ever hope to understand an experience we've never had without someone else who understands it standing in the middle?How do we trust them? This book opened up so many questions I never knew I had inside of me. It answered all of them by the end. Another quote I loved is: "Language was just difference. A thousand different ways of seeing, of moving through the world. No, a thousand worlds within one. And translation - a necessary endeavor, however futile, to move between them."The world is big, and difficult, and dark, and light, and kind, and reckless, and full of pain, and regret, and so much anger, and so much love. How can we understand any of that without translation? How can anything be understood if we are not truly listening?How can we ever be better if we can't learn from the mistakes made in history? R.F. Kuang writes, "History isn't a premade tapestry that we've got to suffer, a closed world with no exit. We can form it. Make it. We just have to choose to make it."So let's choose to listen better, and understand without bias.Let's "Be selfish" in some things. But let's also "Be brave" in all others.
5658927843	4.5 stars!miss rebecca you GENIUS
5025699636	Jedna z książek mojego życia, to na pewno.Te słowa…arcydzieło, te zdania…arcydzieło, te rozdziały…arcydzieło.•Po rereadzie kocham jeszcze bardziej👀
4456210383	“Victory is wrought by ingenuity, persistence and sacrifice. Victory is a game of inches, of historical contingencies where everything goes right because they made it go right.”Wow. This was such a powerful book! This is a historical fiction book about the cost of power, friendship, the negative effects of colonization, betrayal and sacrifice. Babel follows Robin Swift who was taken from his home in Canton to London where he learns the art of translation. Robin studies several languages including Latin, Greek and Chinese which prepares him for when he goes to the Royal Institute of Translation. While at the university he makes friends, learns the power of language and starts a revolution.This book illustrates the power of language and words. The pacing in the beginning of the book was very slow, but it picked up by the middle. This book was very interesting and it really made me think. The characters in this book are so realistic and beautifully flawed. Robin is smart, ambitious, brave, kind, but at the same time selfish, and stubborn. Ramy, one of Robin's friends is brave, smart, persistent. I really liked Victoire, she is smart, loyal, responsible, and strong. I liked Letty at times, but other times she made decisions that I didn't agree with. The character development in this book was excellent, each of the characters changed so much from the beginning to the end. The writing and storytelling in this book is phenomenal! The passages about the history of language reminded me of when I took linguistics in college and reminded me of how much languages have changed over time. This book taught me so many interesting things about languages, history, oppression and revolution. The ending was so heartbreaking and surprising. This story and the important themes will stay with me for a long time. I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction with a bit of magic and excellent writing and characters.
4960373948	DNF- 100 pages in and the footnotes are just insulting to the reader. The author uses it to drive her point over and over. British = bad, White people = bad… got it. We all know racism exists and has existed. There are many books about this and have covered harsh realities well. Racism and oppression have been around since the beginning of humanity, but this is too preachy for my taste. The characters are simply mouthpieces for the author.
