1476583281	welcome to THE OCTOBERDYSSEY, this month's installment of my project long classics dedicated to getting me to read long and intimidating old books.this one is a little different, since it's technically a revisit.i read this in school but i don't remember anything about it except the words "wine-dark sea" and that i hated it.that's a good enough reason to reread.BOOK Iodysseus is being "kept" by a "goddess" and meanwhile his wife penelope is stuck home with their adult son doing all she can to fend off the one million guys who are interested. i hope she's at least having some fun on the side.BOOK IIallegedly penelope is not having fun, but she is at least doing tricks and pranks. which is my idea of a good time.BOOK IIIwe're getting a quick trojan war recap for those of us who didn't join homer for the last episode. or me for the apriliad.BOOK IVtelemachus continues his road trip to see the stars of the iliad. the suitors are chasing him in order to commit murder (?) but this is not that concerning because he has the godly grace and protection of a mommy's boy. making friends and influencing gods.BOOK Vif a goddess was holding me hostage and was like "okay fine, you can leave. just build a boat" i would head right back to her house because i am not getting anywhere. i don't respect odysseus for much at this point (cheater!!!) but i have to hand it to him on that.BOOK VIodysseus landed on phaeacia and immediately took a nice bath and had a snack. elite combo after a big travel day.BOOK VIIathena being like "this king and queen share distant ancestry. he's her uncle." oh!BOOK VIIIdamn, the incest royals are nice. now odysseus has a big ship and 50 guys and 22 barnyard animals and the memory of doing really well at a mini-olympics in his honor and some lengthy song synopses to head home with.BOOK IXquick pause for odysseus backstory, cyclops edition. BOOK Xnow we've reached the circe part, including odysseus telling her "i will NEVER come to your bed!...only because i'm scared you'll hurt me. if you promise you won't i'm in." oh i'd kill him if i were penelope.BOOK XIwe're going straight to hell! mostly to run errands and do some people watching.BOOK XIIdawn is getting namedropped within an inch of her life in this book.BOOK XIIIodysseus wrapped up his story, accepted his gifts, and told the incest royals "thanks guys! heading home, hopefully my wife has never made a single mistake!" now he won't even head back to the house without testing penelope's sorry self. the audacity of this guy.BOOK XIVnow he's telling more lies to test the loyalty of his pig farming slave. good lord.BOOK XVathena went to pick up telemachus from his friend's house since his dad is home from a work trip. many such cases. BOOK XVIathena told odysseus to reveal his true identity to telemachus, but for some reason she gave him a makeover first so his reaction was mostly "you can't be my dad. you're too hot."BOOK XVIIso it turns out the suitors not only eat like 14 farm animals a day — they're also teeming with a barely contained violence.BOOK XVIIIweird one. odysseus broke a beggar's jaw and athena yassified penelope so she could go parent telemachus and extort gifts from the suitors and odysseus told the slave girls telemachus was going to cut them into little pieces and the guys called him a bald hobo and threw things at him but his coward ass ducked behind yet another slave and they got him instead.BOOK XIXtelemachus and odysseus made a quick plan to kill everybody, and then he was like "okay, get out of here. i'm going to aggravate your mom and make her cry." oh boy did he ever!BOOK XXodysseus has now been home without revealing himself or doing much of anything besides elaborate loyalty tests for 25% of the book.BOOK XXIpenelope said she'd marry whoever can bend odysseus' bow. you'll never guess who won.BOOK XXIIyeah, so. that bow thing was just kind of a dramatic entrance into what i can only call a suitor massacre.BOOK XXIIIpenelope and odysseus just caught up for a while. she's better than me because as soon as i heard the names calypso and circe i'd have a few questions.BOOK XXIVodysseus and his dad have a viral youtube military visit video-style reunion and they all lived happily ever after!OVERALLi don't hate this book like i did at 15 years old, but i definitely don't love it. iliad supremacy and justice for my girl penelope.rating: 3.5
233596999	Apropos of the upcoming film adaptation discourse, Have you considered who you would cast as Odysseus? But have you also considered that getting on a boat is a bad idea? Let’s explore! With literature. It’s like a lame Reading Rainbow episode about to happen, here we go:When you stop and think about it, much of classic literature is about how getting on a boat is a bad idea. This book is a litany on why boating is a bad idea. You can say it at least worked out for Odysseus but did it? Did it really? If that dude isn’t haunted by the screams of his crew forever it’s just because the horrors of having been on a boat are overriding it. The whole war could have been avoided if Helen had just stayed off one boat. So if you ever find yourself as a character in a novel (you’ll know by the sweet smell of freshly printed pages on the breeze) I beg you DO NOT GET ON A BOAT. You won’t get that ‘one fine day…’ on a boat Gatsby is hoping for in the famous line about the futility of boats (among other things). Look at Moby Dick—bet the crew of the Pequod were all wishing they stayed on land right before the whale drowned all their asses. You know what isn’t trying to drown you? Land. Ahab might have been a cool baker or candlestick maker but boats led him astray. More like Moby DEAD amirite? The danger of literary boats is real, my friends, Poe’s only novel was about just that. Heart of Darkness? More like Boats are the Heart of the Problem. Look what happened to that old man in the sea, almost starved! And theres The Open Boat by Stephen Crane to remind you the sea is more of an open grave. 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea was like but what if we go UNDER the water surely that’ll work out great? Wrong. Jim Hawkins and Robinson Crusoe could have avoided all sorts of trouble if they stayed off boats. That movie with Jeff Bridges and his school boat was all fun and games until Ryan Phillippe ended up super dead. And watch out for Theseus’ ship, we don’t know if it even counts as the same ship! Boats are tricky like that. Ask the orcas, they know what’s up.Now in sci fi, spaceships are basically just space boats. And look what happened to Paul Atreides when he took that space boat to Arrakis: literally fucking space genocide. Nobody wants that. Hell, the Death Star is just a really really big genocide boat and that ended poorly for everyone. 2001 A Space Odyssey has a space boat out for murder and blaming the crew. So watch out for boats, ye land lubbers. Leave the pirating to me.
84620045	"Okay, so here's what happened. I went out after work with the guys, we went to a perfectly nice bar, this chick was hitting on me but I totally brushed her off. Anyway we ended up getting pretty wrecked, and we might have smoked something in the bathroom, I'm not totally clear on that part, and then this gigantic one-eyed bouncer kicked us out so we somehow ended up at a strip club. The guys were total pigs but not me, seriously, that's not glitter on my neck. And then we totally drove right by these hookers without even stopping and here I am! Only a little bit late! By the way, I crashed the car and six of the guys are in jail. Ask for Officer Scylla."Eh...Homer's right. Odysseus' version is better.P.S. Do not try this story at home unless, when you get there, you're still capable of shooting your arrow into a narrow aperture.Fagles' translation is excellent - the new standard - and Bernard Knox's enormous introduction is the best Homeric essay I've ever read.A good companion read is Hal Roth's We Followed Odysseus - maybe not the most eloquent of books, but he retraces Odysseus's voyage (as best he can) in his sailboat, which is a pretty rad idea. I recreated his route as a Google map here, with notes on each of the stops. I also wrote summaries of each book of the Odyssey for a book club discussion; I've pasted them in the comments thread below, if you're interested.
1840039157	Quite possibly one of my favourite books!It was this novel that ignited my love for Greek and Roman mythology and antiquity - leading me to choose a degree in Classical Civilisations.I always look back on The Odyssey with fondness - I love all the monsters he faces and the gods who involve themselves with Odysseus' trials as he makes his way home after the Trojan War.LOVE LOVE LOVE.
1506986046	“It is generally understood that a modern-day book may honorably be based upon an older one, especially since, as Dr. Johnson observed, no man likes owing anything to his contemporaries. The repeated but irrelevant points of congruence between Joyce's Ulysses and Homer's Odyssey continue to attract (though I shall never understand why) the dazzled admiration of critics.” The Approach to Al-Mu'tasim by Jorge Luis Borges.“The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.” Ecclesiastes 1:9.Is The Odyssey where it all had begun? Or was it already based on the literary tradition? Whatever the answer is, the number of allusions to The Odyssey in world literature is impossible to count.It all starts here.In this almost lifelong homecoming across seas, islands, dreams, visions and even the land of the dead there are no stops. You will want no guide, raise your mast, set your white sails, sit quite still, and the North Wind will blow you there of itself. When your ship has traversed the waters of Oceanus, you will reach the fertile shore of Proserpine's country with its groves of tall poplars and willows that shed their fruit untimely; here beach your ship upon the shore of Oceanus, and go straight on to the dark abode of Hades. You will find it near the place where the rivers Pyriphlegethon and Cocytus (which is a branch of the river Styx) flow into Acheron, and you will see a rock near it, just where the two roaring rivers run into one another.“When you have reached this spot, as I now tell you, dig a trench a cubit or so in length, breadth, and depth, and pour into it as a drink-offering to all the dead, first, honey mixed with milk, then wine, and in the third place water – sprinkling white barley meal over the whole. Moreover you must offer many prayers to the poor feeble ghosts, and promise them that when you get back to Ithaca you will sacrifice a barren heifer to them, the best you have, and will load the pyre with good things. More particularly you must promise that Teiresias shall have a black sheep all to himself, the finest in all your flocks.”And it all ends here.It’s a circle…“As the end approaches, there are no longer any images from memory – there are only words. It is not strange that time may have confused those that once portrayed me with those that were symbols of the fate of the person that accompanied me for so many centuries. I have been Homer; soon, like Ulysses, I shall be Nobody; soon, I shall be all men – I shall be dead.” The Immortal by Jorge Luis Borges.Immortality belongs to myths.
865166538	I first read Homer in the 19th-century French translation by Leconte de Lisle — the equivalent, say, of the 18th-century translation into English by Alexander Pope: a pompous, archaic and exhausting bore of a book. I kept my chin up and, after a while, tried another inflated Frenchman: the 1955 translation by the curly-moustached Victor Bérard (in the prestigious Pléiade edition, with an odd arrangement of chapters). A bit less depraved than the Parnassian poet, but all in all (alack!) not much better. Only last year came this new English translation by Emily Wilson, an American academic and allegedly the first woman to translate Homer into English. And it is a damned refreshing take on Homer! Basically, it’s the first time I’m reading The Odyssey without dozing off on every other page.Yet, Wilson laid down a daunting challenge to herself: to keep the same number of verses as in Homer’s epic and transpose the Greek’s dactylic hexameters into the traditional (Shakespearian) iambic pentameter. An amazing feat indeed, and she pulled it off with ease, concealing, like an expert weaver, the technicalities of her achievement and dodging some of the ponderousness of the Homeric text (not least of which: the grinding epithets attached to each character or some awkward similes that pop up from time to time): the result is an unaffected, luminous poem, sometimes energetic, sometimes delicate, that flows effortlessly, focusing our attention not on some turgid, embalming, purple prose, but on what is actually at stake in the story, and on the beat of the tale.A few things become glaringly apparent thanks to this new translation: Odysseus is not quite the wise and glorious war hero that we might think. As Wilson states in her opening verse, he is “a complicated man” (πολuτροπον), who messes around with everyone he encounters and talks rubbish on every occasion; in short: he is an inveterate liar. So much so that, in the end, he could easily qualify as the first case of “unreliable narrator”. Most notably, when he is invited to the court of Alcinous and tells the story of his misadventures after the Trojan War — the famous embedded and somewhat fantastical tale (books 9-12) of the Cicones, Lotus-Eaters, Cyclopes, Aeolus, Laestrygonians, Circe, Helios, the dead, the Sirens, Charybdis and Scylla and Calypso —, we cannot help but wonder to what extent Odysseus is making up all this, to entertain his generous hosts. Later on, Odysseus will tell a completely different account of his adventures to other people, or a strongly expurgated version of the first tale to his own wife, misrepresenting himself to her. In short, he is indeed a consummated storyteller — a shining mask for the rhapsodist himself?If The Iliad is the grandfather of pretty much all literature, then The Odyssey is the grandmother: Aeneas, Sindbad, Gulliver, Robinson, Pym, Ahab, Nemo, Marlow are all descendants of Odysseus; Hamlet is a sort of echo of Telemachus; Excalibur is an ersatz of Odysseus’ mighty bow; James Joyce’s Dublin is a Homeric town. We might wonder, however, why Odysseus’ adventures have become such a significant source of inspiration for writers and scholars who claim to be feminists, like Emily Wilson, of course, but also recently Madeline Miller, with her best-seller Circe, and a few years ago, Margaret Atwood and her Penelopiad.Clearly, most characters in The Odyssey express a form of mistrust towards the opposite sex: men believe women to be either nosy sluts or demi-hags; women would rather turn men into pigs or captives than actually deal with them. Even the fair queen Penelope — the only character on the level and the antithesis of the treacherous and fiendish Clytemnestra — is actually just as deceptive, weaving and unweaving her crewelwork to avoid standing up to the wolfish suitors. That being said, let’s save the old nanny Eurycleia, if you insist... But, after all, isn’t this gender suspiciousness at the heart of feminism? It is notable, by the way, that although Odysseus looks like the paragon of manliness and a confirmed skirt-chaser (Penelope, Circe, Calypso, Nausicaa), the fact of the matter is that he is either the punchbag of Poseidon (a male god) or a puppet in the hands of the goddess Athena (a female), who transforms him at will, stultifies his enemies and makes him the pin-up of every girl he encounters. I will confess: in this old tale, men are, at best, a bit ridiculous and irritating — if not “complicated”.To top it all off, the Odyssey is, at its heart, a tale of extreme violence. I’m not just thinking of the savagery of Polyphemus, the Laestrygonians or Scylla, all blood-thirsty monsters who decimate Odysseus’ crewmen. I’m thinking of Odysseus himself, probably the most blood-thirsty character in the whole poem. In fact, instead of coming back home as the one true king of Ithaca and properly claim back his throne and wife in a straightforward manner, he chooses (or instead follows Athena’s plan) to approach the suitors under the guise of a despicable old beggar, puts the devil in them — curses, insults and stools fly back and forth across the saloon on every page — and, when the time is ripe, gets into a shooting spree, slaughters the suitors pitilessly one by one (they are a bunch of more than a hundred dudes!), and tortures atrociously whoever, herdsmen or slave girls alike, got mixed up with them. The Odyssey ends with a big spring cleaning in a merry bath of haemoglobin... Which begs a nagging question: seeing how he behaves, might Odysseus himself not have killed his crew at sea (perhaps to gobble them up, since he is such a gourmand of meatballs and shish kebabs?), and later on told all sorts of baloney about cyclops and shipwrecks to justify his situation?... Anyway, had Homer been working in Hollywood instead of Ancient Greece, he would indeed be on the same side as Peckinpah, Coppola, Scorsese and Tarantino!And now, let’s wait for Emily Wilson to work her magic on The Iliad…
7515668466	long distance couple goals
1453153850	Ever since I first read Homer’s epic describing the adventures of Odysseus back in my school days, three of those adventures fired my imagination: The Lotus Eaters, The Cyclops and the Sirens, most especially the Sirens. I just did revisit these sections of this Greek epic and my imagination was set aflame yet again. How much, you ask? Here is my microfiction as a tribute to the great poet:THE SIRENS This happened back in those days when I was a member of an experimental performing-arts troupe down in Greenwich Village. We would read poetry, dance and act out avant-garde plays in our dilapidated little theater. For a modest charge people could come in and watch for as long as they wanted.Somehow, a business executive who worked downtown in the financial district heard of what we were doing and spoke with our director about an act he has all worked out but needed a supporting cast and that he would pay handsomely if we went along with him.Well, experimental is experimental and if we were going to be well paid we had nothing to lose. The first thing he did was pass out our costumes. In addition to himself, he had parts for three men and three women. The play we were to perform was so simple we didn’t even need a written script. He was to be Odysseus from Homer’s epic and three men would be his sailors. As for the women, we would be the singing Sirens.So, after he changed – quite a sight in a loincloth, being gray-haired, jowly, pasty-skinned and potbellied – we went on stage and he told the sailors how no man has ever heard the hypnotic songs of the Sirens and lived to tell the tale but he, mighty Odysseus, would be the first. He instructed the sailors to tie him to the ship’s mast. They used one of the building’s pillars and when he cried out as the Sirens sang their song the sailors, who had wax in their ears, were to bind him to the mast even tighter.Meanwhile, three of us ladies were on stage as the Sirens, in costume, bare-breasted and outfitted with wings. We began singing a sweet, lilting melody. Mike – that was the businessman’s name – started screaming and the sailors tightened the ropes that bound him. The sailors were glad their ears were plugged as Mike screamed for nearly half an hour. When the ship passed out of earshot of the Sirens, the sailors unbound mighty Odysseus and he collapsed on our makeshift stage, a mass of exhausted middle-aged flesh. The audience applauded, even cheered and we continued our performance of Odysseus and the Sirens every night for more than a week. Then one night Mike outdid himself. His blue eyes bulged, the veins in his neck popped and his face turned a deeper blood-scarlet than ever before. And what I feared might happen, did happen – Mike had a heart attack. We had to interrupt our performance and call an ambulance.We all thought that was the end of our dealing with Mike aka Odysseus until our director received a call from the hospital. Mike told her he was going to be just fine and would be back on stage next week. We called a meeting and everyone agreed that we would suggest Mike seek psychiatric help but if he insists on playing Odysseus, he will have to take his act elsewhere.
2259774119	"I'm not normally a praying man, but if you're up there, please save me, Superman!" —Homer (Simpson)Following James Joyce's lead, I used Homer’s heroic story as inspiration for a novel-in-progress.But how can I, a mere mortal, do justice to the most famous epic poem ever written? An encounter with a work of this magnitude should be shared, rather than reviewed.Homer is the great, great, great (recurring) grand-daddy of modern literature and this colossus is as immortal as the gods within it. And what a tale this must have been way back in the 8th century BC. Then, it was sung, rather than read, and I guess the first to bear witness must have been jigging about in their togas with unbridled excitement.Alas, I didn't read it in ancient Greek, as Homer had intended. My copy was transcribed to a Kindle, rather than papyri, and translated by none other than the genius that was Alexander Pope (yep, I went old school on this).Odysseus, he of the title, otherwise known in Latin as Ulysses, embarks on a perilous, stop/start, um, odyssey, attempting to get home to Ithaca after fighting in the Trojan War for a decade.Such an amazing story, overflowing with an abundance of adventure. Poor Odysseus, having battled treacherous seas, wrathful gods, enchanting sirens and a Cyclops, then has to put up with big bad Poseidon weighing in with some nautical muscle and shipwrecking his boat!Plagued by setback after setback, the journey home takes TEN gruelling years to complete! And, as if that wasn’t bad enough, wife Penelope has meanwhile given up hope of him returning home alive and is being courted by one hundred suitors, none of whom are fit to kiss our hero's sandals.This is by no means a page-turner and some background knowledge is required to appreciate the finer points. Pope has done an amazing job to remain somewhat sympathetic to the timbre of Homer's lyrical story, and his rhyming couplets are a thing to behold: "But when the star of eve with golden lightAdorn'd the matron brow of night."Beautiful!Homer (the poet, not the cartoon character) has fuelled the imagination of countless authors throughout the centuries, and therefore it would be sacrilege for me to award anything less than five heroic stars.
2292661280	The first line in Emily Wilson’s new translation of the Odyssey, the first by a woman scholar, is “Tell me about a complicated man.” In an article by Wyatt Mason in the NYT late last year, Wilson tells us “I could’ve said, ‘Tell me about a straying husband.’ And that’s a viable translation. That’s one of the things [the original language] says…[But] I want to be super responsible about my relationship to the Greek text. I want to be saying, after multiple different revisions: This is the best I can get toward the truth.” Oh, the mind reels. This new translation by Emily Wilson reads swiftly, smoothly, and feels contemporary. This exciting new translation will surprise you, and send you to compare certain passages with earlier translations. In her Introduction, Wilson raises that issue of translation herself: How is it possible to have so many different translations, all of which could be considered “correct”? Wilson reminds us what a ripping good yarn this story is, and removes any barriers to understanding. We can come to it with our current sensibility and find in it all kinds of foretelling and parallels with life today, and perhaps we even see the genesis of our own core morality, a morality that feels inexplicably learned. Perhaps the passed-down sense of right and wrong, of fairness and justice we read of here was learned through these early stories and lessons from the gods. Or are we interpreting the story to fit our sensibility?These delicious questions operate in deep consciousness while we pleasure in learning more about that liar Odysseus, described again and again as wily, scheming, cunning, “his lies were like truth.” He learned how to bend the truth at his grandfather’s knee, and the gods exploited that talent when they helped him out. The skill served him well, allowing him to confuse and evade captors throughout his ordeal, as well as keep his wife and father in the dark about his identity upon his return until he could reveal the truth at a time of maximum impact.There does inevitably come a time when people react cautiously to what is told them, even to the evidence their own eyes. The gods can cloud one’s understanding, it is well known, and truth is suspected in every encounter. These words Penelope speaks: "Please forgive me, do not keep bearing a grudge because when I first saw you,I would not welcome you immediately.I felt a constant dread that some bad manwould fool me with his lies. There are so manydishonest, clever men..." Particularly easy to relate to today are descriptions of Penelope’s ungrateful suitors like Ctesippius, who "encouraged by extraordinary wealth, had come to court Odysseus’ wife." Also speaking insight for us today are the phrases "Weapons themselves can tempt a man to fight" and "Arms themselves can prompt a man to use them."There is a conflicted view of women in this story: "Sex sways all women’s minds, even the best of them," though Penelope is a paragon of virtue, managing to avoid temptation through her own duplicitousness. She hardly seems a victim at all in this reading, merely an unwilling captor. She is strong, smart, loyal, generous, and brave, all the qualities any man would want for his wife.We understand the slave girls that Odysseus felt he had to “test” for loyalty were at the disposal of the ungrateful suitors who, after they ate and drank at Penelope's expense, often met the house girls after hours. Some of the girls appeared to go willingly, laughing and teasing as they went, and were outspoken about their support of the men they’d taken up with. Others, we get the impression from the text, felt they had no choice.Race is not mentioned but once in this book, very matter-of-factly, though the darker man is a servant to the lighter one: "…[Odysseus] had a valet with him,I do remember, named Eurybates,a man a little older than himself,who had black skin, round shoulders, woolly hair, and was [Odysseus's] favorite our of all his crewbecause his mind matched his." Odysseus’s tribulations are terrible, but appear to be brought on by his own stubborn and petulant nature, like his taunting of the blinded Cyclops from his own escaping ship. Cyclops was Poseidon’s son so Odysseus's behavior was especially unwise, particularly since his own men were yelling at him to stop. Later, that betrayal of the men’s best interests for his own childish purpose will come back to haunt Odysseus when the men suspect him of thinking only of himself--greediness--and unleash terrible winds by accident, blowing them tragically off course in rugged seas. We watch, fascinated, as the gods seriously mess Odysseus about, and then come to his aid. We really get the sense of the gods playing, as in Athena’s willingness to give Odysseus strength and arms when fighting the suitors in his house, but being unwilling to actually step in to help with the fighting. Instead, she watched from the rafters. It’s hard not to be just a little resentful. Wilson’s translation reads very fast and very clearly. There always seemed to be some ramp-up time reading Greek myths in the past, but now the adventures appear perfectly accessible. Granted, there are some names you’ll have to figure out, but that’s part of being “constructively lost,” as Pynchon says.A book-by-book reading of this new translation will begin March 1st on the Goodreads website, hosted by Kris Rabberman, Wilson’s colleague at the University of Pennsylvania. To prepare for the first online discussion later this week, Kris has suggested participants read the Introduction. If interested readers are still not entirely convinced they want this literary experience now, some excerpts have been reprinted in The Paris Review.
1018608341	I mean, it's no Ulysses.
628739901	To this day, the most interesting research project that I’ve ever done was the very first. It was on the Homeric Question.I was a sophomore in college—a student with (unfortunate) literary ambitions who had just decided to major in anthropology. By this point, I had at least tacitly decided that I wanted to be a professor. In my future lay the vast and unexplored ocean of academia. What was the safest vessel to travel into that forbidden wine-dark sea? Research.I signed up for a reading project with an anthropology professor. Although I was too naïve to sense it at the time, he was a man thoroughly sick of his job. Lucky for him, he was on the cusp of retirement. So his world-weariness manifested itself as a total, guilt-free indifference to his teaching duties. Maybe that’s why I liked him so much. I envied a man that could apparently care so little about professional advancement. That’s what I wanted.In any case, now I had to come up with a research topic. I had just switched into the major, and so had little idea what typical anthropology research projects were like. And because my advisor was so indifferent, I received no guidance from him. The onus lay entirely on me. One night, as I groped half-heartedly through Wikipedia pages, I stumbled on something fascinating, something that I hadn’t even considered before. Who is Homer? Nobody knew. Nobody could know. The man—if man he was—was lost to the abyss of time. No trace of him existed. We can’t even pin down what century he lived. And yet, we have these glorious poems—poems at the center of our history, the roots of the Western literary canon. Stories of the Greek Gods had fascinated me since my childhood; Zues and Athena were as familiar as Little Red Riding Hood and the Big Bad Wolf. That the person (or persons) responsible could be so totally lost to history baffled me—intrigued me.But I was not majoring in literature or the humanities. I was in anthropology, and so had to do a proper anthropological project. At the very least, I needed an angle.Milman Parry and Albert Lord duly provided this angle. The two men were classicists—scholars of ancient Greece. But instead of staying in their musty offices reading dusty manuscripts, they did something no classicist had done before: they attempted to answer the Homeric question with field work.At the time (and perhaps now?) a vibrant oral tradition existed in Serbo-Croatia. Oral poets (guslars, they’re called there) would tell massive stories at public gatherings, some stories even approaching the length of the Homeric poems. But what was most fascinating was that these stories were apparently improvised.In our decadent culture, we have a warped idea of improvisation. Many of us believe improvisation to be the spontaneous outflowing of creative energies, manifesting themselves in something totally new. Like God shaping the Earth out of the infinite void, these imaginary improvisers shape their art from nothing whatsoever. Unfortunately, this never happens.Whether you’re a jazz saxophonist playing on a Coltrane tune, a salesperson dealing with a new client, or an oral bard telling a tale, improvisation is done via a playful recombining of preexisting, formulaic elements. This was Milman and Parry’s great discovery. By carefully transcribing hundreds of these Serbo-Croation poems, they discovered that—although a single poem may vary from person to person, place to place, or performance to performance—the variation took place within predictable boundaries. The poet’s brains were full of stock-phrases (“when dawn with her rose-red fingers shone once more”), common epithets (“much-enduring Odysseus”), and otherwise formulaic verses that allowed them to quickly put together their poems. Individual scenes, in turn, also followed stereotypical outlines—feasts, banquets, catalogues of forces, battles, athletic contests, etc. Of course, this is not to say that the poet was not original. Rather, it is to say that they are just as original as John Coltrane or Charlie Parker—individuals working within a tradition. These formulas and stereotypical scenes were the raw material with which the poet worked. They allowed him to compose material quickly enough to keep up the performance, and not break his rhythm. But could poems as long as The Odyssey and The Iliad come wholly from an oral tradition? It seems improbable: it would take multiple days to recite, and the bard would have to pick up where he left off. But Milman and Parry, during their fieldwork, managed to put our fears at rest. They found a singer that could (and did) compose poems equal in length to Homer’s. (I actually read one. It’s called The Wedding of Smailagic Meho, and was recited by a poet named Avdo. It’s no Odyssey, but still entertaining.)All this is impressive, but one question remained: how could the oral poems get on paper? Did an oral poet—Homer, presumably—learn to write, and copy it down? Not possible, says Alfred Lord, in his book The Singer of Tales. According to him, once a person becomes literate, the frame of mind required to learn the art of oral poetry cannot be achieved. A literate person thinks of language in an entirely different way as a non-literate one, and so the poems couldn’t have been written by a literate poet who had learned from his oral predecessors.According to Lord, this left only one option: Homer must have been a master oral poet, and his poems must have been transcribed by someone else. (This is how the aforementioned poem by Avdo was taken down by the researchers.) At the time, this struck me as perfectly likely—indeed, almost certain. But the more I think about it, the less I can imagine an oral poet submitting himself to sit with a scribe, writing in the cumbersome Linear B script, for the dozens and dozens of hours it would have taken to transcribe these poems. It’s possible, but seems unlikely.But according to Ruth Finnegan, Alfred Lord’s insistence that literacy destroys the capacity to improvise poems is mistaken. An anthropologist, Finnegan found many cases in Africa of semi-literate or fully literate people who remained capable of improvising poetry. So it’s at least equally possible that Homer was an oral poet who learned to read, and then decided to commit the poems to paper (or whatever they were writing on back then).I submit this longwinded overview of the Homeric Question because, despite my usual arrogance, I cannot even imagine writing a ‘review’ for this poem. I feel like that would be equivalent to ‘reviewing’ one’s own father and mother. For me, and everyone alive in the Western world today, The Odyssey is flesh of my flesh, blood of my blood. Marvelously sophisticated, fantastically exciting, it is the alpha and omega of our tradition. From Homer we sprang, and unto Homer shall we return.[Note: I'd also like to add that this time, my third or forth time through the poem, I decided to go through it via audiobook. Lucky for me, the Fagles translation (a nice one if you're looking for readability) is available as an audiobook, narrated by the great Sir Ian McKellen. It was a wonderful experience, not only because Sir Ian has such a beautiful voice (he's Gandalf, after all), but because hearing it read rather than reading it recreated, however dimly, the original experience of the poem: as a performance. I highly recommend it.]
2739155364	What can I say about this book that hasn't been said already? I'm sure that the influence and importance of it has been discussed to death already, so I won't even get started on that.My reading experience was surprisingly pleasant: I didn't expect to get so invested! I found the language a bit hard at first, but once I got used to it (which didn't take all too long), I was able to fully enjoy the story. I'm glad that I finally read this classic piece of work, and it's definitely understandable that it's as famous as it is.
2292904324	As you set out for Ithakahope your road is a long one,full of adventure, full of discovery.Laistrygonians, Cyclops,angry Poseidon—don’t be afraid of them:you’ll never find things like that on your wayas long as you keep your thoughts raised high,as long as a rare excitementstirs your spirit and your body.Laistrygonians, Cyclops,wild Poseidon—you won’t encounter themunless you bring them along inside your soul,unless your soul sets them up in front of you.Hope your road is a long one. Ithaka By C. P. Cavafy Translated by Edmund KeeleyΚι αν πτωχική την βρεις, η Ιθάκη δεν σε γέλασε. Έτσι σοφός που έγινες, με τόση πείρα, ήδη θα το κατάλαβες η Ιθάκες τι σημαίνουν.Η ψυχή μου το ξέρει, πόσο μεγάλη ανάγκη το είχα να το κάνω ξανά αυτό το μεγάλο ταξίδι μαζί με τον πολύπαθο Οδυσσέα. Και διάλεξα τη μετάφραση εκείνη, την πρώτη, απο τα σχολικά μου χρόνια, του Ζήσιμου Σίδερη, αλλά είχα από δίπλα και το αρχαίο κείμενο για να παίρνω διπλή χαρά, από τη γλώσσα μου αυτήν την πανάρχαια, τις λέξεις που ακόμα μιλούμε και που με αυτές ακόμα και σήμερα, εκφράζουμε τις χαρές, τους πόνους, τις αγωνίες και τις ελπίδες μας. Και η αγαπημένη μου η Αθηνά... Κάθε μέρα, καθώς το λεωφορείο παίρνει τη στροφή στη διασταύρωση της Βασιλίσσης Σοφίας, στην Πλατεία Συντάγματος, στρέφω το βλέμμα για μια στιγμή, να δω μέσα από τα τσιμέντα και το καυσαέριο, πάνω απ' τους βιαστικούς διαβάτες, τον Ιερό της Βράχο, κάτω από τον ίδιο ουρανό, που είτε γκρίζος είτε καταγάλανος και ηλιόλουστος, είναι ο ίδιος ουρανός κάτω από τον οποίο αιώνες τώρα στέκει ο τόπος μου και μιλιέται η γλώσσα μου. Κι όταν μου σώνεται καμιά φορά ο αέρας, από τις δυσκολίες της ζωής, έχω ανάγκη σε αυτόν το βράχο να καταφεύγω, ικέτιδα, για να ανασάνω. Και παίρνω δύναμη από τις παλιές πανανθρώπινες ιστορίες κι έτσι κατηφορίζω πάλι ξανά μέσα στην γκρίζα πόλη, γιατρεμένη. Η Αθηνά με την μορφή του Μέντη του αρχηγού των Ταφιωτών πάει στην Ιθάκη στο παλάτι του Οδυσσέα, βρίσκει τον νεαρό του γιο, τον Τηλέμαχο και τον συμβουλεύει να μην κάθεται άλλο ανάμεσα στους μνηστήρες, αλλά να πάρει ένα καράβι και να επισκεφτεί το Νέστορα στην Πύλο και τον Μενέλαο στην Σπάρτη, για να μάθει νέα για τον χαμένο του πατέρα, που είκοσι χρόνια τώρα λείπει από την Ιθάκη, και δεν ξέρει κανένας αν ζει ή αν πέθανε. Ο νέος φεύγει κρυφά, κι όταν το πληροφορούνται οι μνηστήρες σχεδιάζουν στην επιστροφή να τον σκοτώσουν, αλλά το θράσος τους δεν θα τους βγει σε καλό καθώς άλλες είναι οι βουλές των θεών. Ξανά με παρακίνηση της Αθηνάς, φτάνει ο Ερμής στη νησί της Ωγυγίας, εκεί που η Καλυψώ κρατάει, από έρωτα, αιχμάλωτο τον Οδυσσέα και της δίνει εντολή να τον αφήσει να φύγει, για το νησί των Φαιάκων. Εκεί παρουσιάζεται μια από τις ωραίες περιγραφές που δεν χόρταινα να διαβάζω παλιά, όταν ήμουν ακόμη μαθήτρια στο Γυμνάσιο:"όσο που βρήκε μια σπηλιά μεγάλη, όπου η νεράιδακαθόντανε η λαμπρόμαλλη και μέσα εκεί την ήβρε.Φωτιά μεγάλη είχε στη στια και μια ευωδιά απ' αλάργαμοσκοβολούσε στο νησί, κέδρου κι αφράτης θούγιαςπου καίγουνταν. Κι η Καλυψώ, μ' ολόχρυση σαΐταστον αργαλειό της ύφαινε και γλυκοτραγουδούσε.Φούντωνε γύρω στη σπηλιά δροσολουσμένο δάσος με κυπαρίσσια ευωδιαστά, με πεύκες και με σκλήθρα,όπου πλατύφτερα πουλιά φωλιάζανε εκεί πάντα,γεράκια κι ανοιχτόφωνες κουρούνες, βαρδολούπεςθαλασσοπούλια που αγαπούν τα πέλαγα να σκίζουν.Κι ολόγυρα στην κουφωτή σπηλιά ήταν απλωμένη, κληματαριά πολύβλαστη σταφύλια φορτωμένη.Τέσσερεις βρύσες στη στεριά γλυκό νερό αναβρύζαν,κοντά-κοντά, κι άλλη απ' αλλού κυλούσε τα νερά της.Κι ανθούσαν γύρω στη σειρά λιβάδια με γιοφύλιακαι σέλινα, που αν τα 'βλεπε κι αθάνατος ακόμα, θα σάστιζε και μέσα του θα ξάνοιγε η καρδιά του".Έτσι φεύγει, γεμάτος χαρά ο Οδυσσέας, μέσα σε μια σχεδία, αλλά έμελλε να φτάσει στο νησί των Φαιάκων ναυαγός, καθώς ο Ποσειδώνας σήκωσε θαλασσοταραχή για να τον πνίξει, αλλά η Ινώ του έδωσε το αθάνατο μαντήλι της και τον έσωσε. Κι όταν η κόρη του βασιλιά Αλκίνοου και της σεβάσμια Αρήτης, η Ναυσικά, τον βρίσκει ναυαγό, δεν αργεί ο ήρωας να φτάσει στο παλάτι και να βρει βοήθεια. Εκεί διηγείται όλες τις περασμένες του περιπέτειες (η αφηγηματική τεχνική του in medias res). Και αν πέρασε περιπέτειες ο θαλασσοδαρμένος ήρωας... Από τους Κίκονες και τους Λωτοφάγους, στη χώρα των Κυκλώπων όπου με τέχνασμα (Ούτις εμοί γ' όνομα) ο ήρωας και οι σύντροφοί του σώζονται από τον ανθρωποφάγο γίγαντα, αφού πρώτα τον μεθύσουν και τον τυφλώσουν:«Τι σου 'τυχε, Πολύφημε, και μεγαλοφωνάζειςμες στην αθάνατη νυχτιά και μας χαλάς τον ύπνο;Μην άθελά σου σ' άρπαξε κανένας το κοπάδι;Μήνα σου παίρνει τη ζωή μ' απάτη και μ' αντρεία;».Κι ο φοβερός Πολύφημος απ' τη σπηλιά απαντούσε· «Αδέρφια, μ' έφαγε ο Κανείς μ' απάτη, όχι μ' αντρεία».Κι εκείνοι τ' απαντούσανε με πεταχτά τους λόγια«Αφού κανείς δε σ' έβλαψε και μέσα είσαι μονάχος,απ' την αρρώστια ποιος μπορεί του Δία να σε σώσει;Δεήσου στον πατέρα σου το σείστη Ποσειδώνα». Κι από εκεί στην Αιολία, όπου ο Αίολος έκλεισε σε έναν ασκό όλους τους ανέμους κι άφησε μόνο την πνοή του Ζέφυρου να τους γυρίσει στην πατρίδα, και πράγματι μετά από δέκα μέρες θαλασσινής πορείας έφτασαν τα καράβια να βλέπουν από μακριά τη στεριά της Ιθάκης. Αλλά οι ανόητοι σύντροφοι του Οδυσσέα άνοιξαν τον ασκό και επέστρεψαν στο νησί του Αιόλου. Κι από εκεί αποδιωγμένοι έφτασαν στην Τηλέπυλο, τη γη των Λαιστρυγόνων, από όπου μόνο το καράβι του Οδυσσέα γλίτωσε. Κι από εκεί στο νησί της Αίας όπου η Κίρκη μεταμόρφωσε τους συντρόφους του σε γουρούνια. Κι από εκεί διασχίζοντας τον Ωκεανό, φτάνει ο ήρωας να κάνει ζωντανός (δίταφος - δισθανής) ο ίδιος, κατάβαση στους νεκρούς του Άδη, για να πάρει χρησμό από τον Τειρεσία για το πώς θα επιστρέψει στην πατρίδα. Και τον συμβούλεψε ο σοφός μαντης να μη φάνε τα βόδια του Ήλιου σαν βρεθούν στο νησί της Θρινακίας. Κι έπειτα πέρασε από τις Σειρήνες, τη Σκύλλα και τη Χάρυβδη κι έφτασε στο νησί του Ήλιου, όπου οι σύντροφοί του σπρωγμένοι από την πείνα παραβίασαν τον χρησμό και έτσι όλοι χάθηκαν εκτός από τον ίδιο τον Οδυσσέα που κατέληξε ναυαγός και αιχμάλωτος, εραστής της Καλυψώς που ήθελε να τον κάνει αθάνατο. Κι από εκεί στο νησί των Φαιάκων επιστρέφει ο ήρωας στην Ιθάκη γεμάτος δώρα, αλλά οι περιπέτειές του δεν τελειώνουν εδώ. Αρχικά δεν αναγνωρίζει τον ίδιο του τον τόπο καθώς έχουν περάσει τόσα χρόνια. Με την παρέμβαση της Αθηνάς που τον μεταμορφώνει σε γέρος επαίτη, φτάνει, αγνώριστος στην καλύβα του Εύμαιου του χοιροβοσκού. Ο Εύμαιος, ο πιστός, ο αφοσιωμένος, ο σοφός και φιλόξενος, δεν είναι ένας απλός δούλος του Οδυσσέα. Σαν ήταν μικρό παιδάκι, γιος βασιλιά, τον απήγαγαν κι έτσι βρέθηκε να υπηρετεί την οικογένεια του Λαέρτη στην Ιθάκη. Γι' αυτόν ο Όμηρος επιφυλάσσει μια ιδιαίτερη τιμή, κάθε φορά που μιλάει στο έργο, ο ποιητής απευθύνεται σε αυτόν στο β ενικό (τον δ’ απαμειβόμενος προσέφης, Εύμαιε συβώτα):Τότε, Εύμαιε χοιροβοσκέ, τ' απάντησες κι έτσι είπες·Δεν το 'χω, γέρο, σε καλό τον ξένο ν' αψηφήσω,χειρότερός σου κι αν ερθεί. Γιατί σταλτοί απ' το Δίαείναι όλοι οι ξένοι και οι φτωχοί. Το δόσιμό μας λίγο μα πρόσχαρο. Έτσι μεταμορφωμένος, καθώς επιστρέφει και ο Τηλέμαχος από το ταξίδι του, φτάνει στο παλάτι του, ζητιάνος, υπόκειται σε ταπεινώσεις και εξευτελισμούς από τους μνηστήρες, ώσπου, ξανά με την ενθάρρυνση της Αθηνάς, πετάει τα κουρέλια του και αρχίζει μια μάχη που θα ήταν άνιση χωρίς την παρέμβαση της θεάς, καθώς πολεμάνε τέσσερις από τη μια (Οδυσσέας, Τηλέμαχος, Εύμαιος και ο βοσκός Φιλοίτιος) και πάνω από εκατό από την άλλη πλευρά:Δεν είναι μια, δεν είναι δυο δεκάδες οι Μνηστήρεςμόν' είναι ακόμα πιο πολλοί, κι άκου να τους μετρήσω.Απ' το Δουλίχι διαλεχτοί πενήντα δυο λεβέντες, μ' έξι μαζί τους παραγιούς. Κι όσοι ήρθαν απ' τη Σάμη,είναι όλοι είκοσι τέσσερεις. Κι είκοσι βάλε ακόμα,όσοι ήρθαν απ' τη Ζάκυνθο, και δώδεκα απ' το Θιάκι,ατρόμητοι όλοι στην καρδιά. Κι ο Μέδοντας ο κράχτης,κι ο θεϊκός τραγουδιστής, πόχουν κι αυτοί μαζί τους,δυο παραγιούς, στο μοίρασμα των φαγητών τεχνίτες.Μετά τη δολοφονία των μνηστήρων, κι αφού τακτοποιήσει τα του οίκου του ο Οδυσσέας ξανασμίγει με την Πηνελόπη (το θηλυκό πολυμήχανο έτερον ήμισυ του ήρωα, μια γενναία, πανέξυπνη, ευγενική και πιστή σύζυγος και μητέρα) και την επομένη πηγαίνει να συναντήσει τον γέρο πατέρα του, τον Λαέρτη. Και αφού, ξανά με την παρέμβαση της Αθηνάς, αποτρέπεται, την τελευταία στιγμή, η εμφύλια σύγκρουση ανάμεσα στους συγγενείς των μνηστήρων με τον οίκο του Οδυσσέα, η ιστορία τελειώνει, όχι όμως το ταξίδι. Και η ζωή συνεχίζεται...Τα ηρωικά τραγούδια της μυκηναϊκής εποχής, που διηγούνταν τις περιπέτειες των Αχαιών, ανάμεσα σε αυτά κι η διήγηση της πολιορκίας της Τροίας, και η περιπλάνηση του Οδυσσέα, διαμορφώθηκαν μέσα από επαγγελματίες τραγουδιστές με τη συνοδεία ενός έγχορδου οργάνου (αοιδοί) και τους κατοπινότερους ραψωδούς (που έκαναν απαγγελία των ποιημάτων κρατώντας στο δεξί τους χέρι ένα ραβδί) και κάπως έτσι γίνεται το πέρασμα από την αρχαιότερη προφορική παράδοση στα καταγεγραμμένα έπη (ακολουθώντας τον ρυθμό του δακτυλικού εξαμέτρου), όπως αυτά σώζονται ως σήμερα. Στην Οδύσσεια παρουσιάζονται δύο αοιδοί ο Δημόδοκος στους Φαίακες και ο Φήμιος στους Ίθακες. Από εδώ κατέβασα την μετάφραση του Σίδερη, από το σχολικό βιβλίο όπως την διδάχτηκα για πρώτη φορά, στο σχολείο ολάκερη:http://e-library.iep.edu.gr/iep/colle...Από εδώ διάβασα διάφορες σχετικές με τα έπη μελέτες τις οποίες βρήκα ιδιαίτερα χρήσιμες:http://www.greek-language.gr/digitalR...
65207218	It's funny how many people feel intimidated by this book. Sure, it's thousands of years old, and certainly Greek culture has some peculiarities, but the book is remarkably, sometimes surprisingly modern, and most translations show the straightforward simplicity of the story.Perhaps like The Seventh Seal, The Odyssey has gotten a reputation for being difficult because it has been embraced by intellectuals and worse, wanna-be intellectuals. But like Bergman's classic film, The Odyssey is focused on action, low humor, and vivid characters, not complex symbolism and pretension.It shouldn't really surprise us how modern the story seems, from it's fast-paced action to its non-linear story: authors have taken cues from it for thousands of years, and continue to take inspiration from it today. Any story of small people, everyday heroes, and domestic life we read today is only a few steps removed from Odysseus' tale.Unlike the Iliad, this book is not focused on grand ideas or a grand stage. The characters do not base their actions on heroic ideals but on their emotions, their pains and joys, their grumbling bellies. It is less concerned with the fate of nations than the state of the family and friendship.Since the story turns on whims instead of heroic ideals, it is much less focused than the Iliad, meandering from here to there in a series of unconnected vignettes drawn from the mythic tradition. Like The Bible, it is a combination of stories, but without a philosophical focus.There are numerous recurring themes that while not concluded, are certainly explored. The most obvious of these may be the tradition of keeping guests in Greece. The most honorable provide their guests with feasts, festivals, and gifts. This seems mostly the effect of a noblesse oblige among the ruling class. Like the codes of war or the class system, it is a social structure which benefits their rulership. Like the palace of Versailles of Louis XIV, keeping someone as a guest was a way to keep an eye on them and to provide camaraderie and mutual reliance amongst the fractitious ruling class.The second theme is that of 'metis', represented by Odysseus himself. Metis is the Greek term for cunning. It is a quick-witted cleverness that is sometimes considered charming and other times deceitful. Achilles tells Odysseys in the Iliad that he resents the clever man's entreaties, and those of any man who says one thing but thinks another.Odysseus later mimics this sentiment as part of an elaborate lie to gain the trust of another man. Such are the winding ways of our hero. He misleads his son, his wife, his servants, and his despondent father after his return, careful not to overplay his hand in a dangerous situation, arriving as a stranger.Each of these prevarications can be seen sometimes as cruel, but each deception has a reasoning behind it. He uses his stories to carefully prepare his listeners for his return, instead of springing it upon them unwarned. He ensures that he will be received upon the most profitable terms, though he also enjoys the game of it all.These acts of sudden, cruel cleverness are not uncommon in epics and adventure tales. One tale of Viking raiders tells of how, after sailing into the Mediterranean, their ship reached one of the cities of the Roman Empire. Though just a small outpost, the Viking chief thought it was Rome itself, since its stone buildings towered over the farms of his homeland.He hid in a coffin with a wealth of swords and had his soldiers bear him into the town, telling the inhabitants they wished to make burial rights for their dead king. When they were let in, the coffin was opened, the swords passed around, and the city sacked. What is curious is that while warriors like the Greeks or Vikings maintained a strict sense of honor and honesty, this kind of trick was not only common in their stories, but admired.The honor of the battlefield does not extend to the Trojan Horse (Odysseus' idea) or to the tale of Sinon in the Aeneid. The rule seems to be that if the tricks played are grand and clever enough, they are allowed, while small, mean pranks and betrayals are not. Not all the soldiers agree what is outsmarting and what is dishonorable (Achilles puts Odysseus in the latter camp), but there is a give and take there.What is most remarkable about Odysseus is not merely that he comes up with these tricks, but that he passes them off on proud, honorable men without incurring their wrath. Moreover, he does all this while having a famous reputation for being tricky. You'd think he'd get an intentional walk now and then.Odysseus was not as strong a character as Achilles or Hector were in the Iliad, though this may be because he was a complex character who did not rely on the cliche characterizations of 'the noble warrior'. He is not a man with a bad temper, nor a good one. He is a competent and powerful warrior and leader, but those are not his defining characteristics, either.Odysseus represents the Greek ideal of 'arete' as well as metis. Arete is the idea that a man who is truly great should excel in all things, not merely concentrate on one area of life. Even raging Achilles showed the depth of his arete in the Iliad when he served as host and master of the games. He was capable of nobility, sound judgment, and generosity, even if he didn't always put his best foot forward.Odysseus is likewise skilled in both war and domesticity, in the sword and politics, and he's clever and wily to boot. In the end, there isn't much room left over for negative character traits, which is what makes him feel a bit flat. What makes people interesting as individuals is not their best traits, but their worst.For Odysseus, this is his pride. After spending twenty years of his life away at war, leaving his wife and infant son behind, it's not surprising that he wants to return home with wealth and with his name on the lips of poets and minstrels.Between his pride, his easy smile, and his quick wit, he is the model for the modern action hero. He is not merely some chivalric picture of goodness, nor simply mighty and overwhelming, but a conflicted man with a wry sense of humor and above all, a will to survive.Don't read this book simply because it is old, influential, and considered great. Read it because it is exciting and approachable and thoughtful. Even without all the reputation, it can stand on its own.I read the Fagles translation, which was enjoyable and often lovely, though some modern idioms did slip in here and there. The Knox intro rehashes a lot of the introduction to The Iliad, but it's still very useful.
4272070215	La Odisea me ha gustado muchísimo más que la Ilíada, ya que no se me hizo tan pesada. Sin embargo, considero que es necesario leer esta última primero para tener más contexto en este libro, ya que aparecen personajes del pasado y se deja en claro cuál fue el desenlace mismo de ellos. Es lo más recomendable.La historia empieza in media res, cuando muchos de los eventos ya han sucedido y algunos ya están evolucionando (luego del desenlace de la Guerra de Troya, los problemas que se le han presentado a Ulises en su regreso a casa, Penélope y sus pretendientes, Telémaco en busca de su padre, etc). Trama y subtramas por varios lados; historias entre historias.La Odisea utiliza tantos tópicos literarios que a mí me fascinan. Comenzando por la seducción, la tentación, la fidelidad/infidelidad, la soledad, la muerte, el anhelo, la astucia y sagacidad del protagonista para salir con vida de variadas situaciones, conspiraciones, venganza, el viaje del héroe con retorno a casa: y a su misma vez la importancia de la familia y el hogar. Pruebas, presagios y la lealtad puesta sobre la mesa. Toda una aventura para Ulises; quien es un líder con defectos y virtudes, que luego de meter la pata es capaz de crear planes ingeniosos para salirse con la suya. Es quizás por eso que me fascinó el libro, ya que Ulises muy por el contrario a Aquiles utiliza la inteligencia. Es un héroe que aprende de sus errores anteriores, por lo que no los vuelve a cometer y ejecuta sus propósitos con mayor cuidado y paciencia; ya no tan a la ligera, por lo que no se deja llevar por impulsos emocionales que de nada le sirven.Pasamos de isla en isla, recorremos tempestuosos mares y conocemos a la ninfa Calipso y Circe la hechicera. Con seres mitológicos como las criaturas marinas escila y caribdis, los gigantes, cícloples, sirenas y los tan temidos y omnipotentes dioses del Olimpo, aunque aquí solo tenemos como presencia absoluta a Atenea y en parte toman importancia Poseidón y Zeus. Ha sido un largo viaje para Ulises ir a la batalla y regresar a su patria; en el que diez años le costó la guerra de Troya lejos de su familia y diez años más regresar con ellos por la ira de Poseidón. Veinte años y toda una verdadera odisea para el pobre.
213889759	I started this as I was told it is essential reading if I ever want to give a shot at reading Ulysses. I was a bit apprehensive and spent a long time deciding on which translation to choose. Finally it was Stephen's review that convinced me to go for the Robert Fagles' version. I have no way of judging how good a decision that was.This translation, by Robert Fagles, is of the Greek text edited by David Monro and Thomas Allen, first published in 1908 by the Oxford University Press. This two-​volume edition is printed in a Greek type, complete with lower- and uppercase letters, breathings and accents, that is based on the elegant handwriting of Richard Porson, an early-​nineteenth-​century scholar of great brilliance, who was also an incurable alcoholic as well as a caustic wit. This was of course not the first font of Greek type; in fact, the first printed edition of Homer, issued in Florence in 1488, was composed in type that imitated contemporary Greek handwriting, with all its complicated ligatures and abbreviations. Early printers tried to make their books look like handwritten manuscripts because in scholarly circles printed books were regarded as vulgar and inferior products — cheap paperbacks, so to speak.First up, I enjoyed the book, even the droll parts. It was fun to repeatedly read Odysseus's laments and Telemachus' airy threats about the marauding suitors. But now that I have finished it, how do I attempt a review? What can I possibly say about an epic like this that has not been said before? To conclude by saying that it was wonderful would be a disservice. To analyse it would be too self-important and to summarize it would be laughable.Nevertheless, I thought of giving a sort of moral summary of the story and then abandoned that. I then considered writing about the many comparisons it evoked it my mind about the Indian epics that I have grown up with, but I felt out of my depth since I have not even read the Iliad yet. With all those attempts having failed, I am left with just repeating again that it was much more enjoyable than I expected. That is not to say that it was an epic adventure with no dull moments. No. The characters repeat themselves in dialogue and in attitude, all major dramatic points are revealed in advance as prophesy and every important story event is told again at various points by various characters. Even though I avoided it as much as I can, I could not at times avoid contrasting my reading experience with that of the epics I have grown up with and I remember thinking to myself that in comparison this reads like a short story or a novella. Maybe this impression is because I am largely yet unaware of the large mythical structure on which the story is built. I intend to allay that deficiency soon.The characters are unforgettable, the situations are legendary and I am truly happy that I finally got around to a full reading of this magnificent epic. It has opened up a new world.
4454033406	Homer Therapy 102“By hook or by crook, this peril too shall be something we remember.”During covid lockdown, my husband and I decided to study Ancient Greece. Each night after dinner, we listened to a half an hour lecture or read from a classic text. It’s become a habit or rather a household ritual in which even our dog partakes. (She has a chair she sits in while we listen.) We studied history, philosophy, mythology, and when omicron threatened, we decided to re-read Homer. It has been magical, therapeutic even. On Saturday, we finished the Odyssey.Living in such trying times makes me long for something of lasting quality. Emily Wilson’s exquisite translation of Odysseus’s tumultuous ten-year journey home from Troy helped me grapple with the precariousness of the human condition and our own mortality. We listened to Claire Danes read and simultaneously read along. Homer is meant to be heard, and Danes gives an outstanding performance. Our understanding of the text was enhanced by interspersing Elizabeth Vandiver’s excellent lectures throughout our reading. Our journey with Odysseus, Penelope, and Telemachus provided a needed uplift for us as it has for others over the past 2,500 years. Highly recommend.Thanks to Bruce Katz for recommending Emily Wilson's translation.
3432221403	I immensely enjoyed reading The Iliad, and since everyone said that The Odyssey is even better, I was expecting to love it. That didn't happen. I liked The Odyssey, but I found it to be a lot less compelling than The Iliad, both narratively and thematically. This is strange, I usually prefer adventure tales to war stories, but The Odyssey didn't have the grandeur, the atmosphere of despair, the philosophical undertones, or even the literary beauty of The Iliad. The Odyssey reads almost like a long folk tale, not an epic. Every translation of the Odyssey that I consulted was considerably simpler and less eloquent than the same translator's edition of The Iliad. I had highlighted many similes and beautiful lines in The Iliad, but my highlights in the Odyssey weren't that many at all.Of course, I enjoyed parts of it. The adventures are fun to read and they reverberate interesting details about ancient myths of the Bronze Age Greek-speaking world and its surrounding lands. The parts about Odysseus' adventures (which are, sadly, only a very short section of the poem from books IX to XII, told in a flashback by Odysseus himself) are full of wonder, whimsy, and excitement. I would've enjoyed The Odyssey a lot more if those parts weren't washed over and occupied a larger portion. Everyone praises the mythical creatures and whimsy and wonder in the book but they forget to mention that those interesting creatures are present only in a very short section of the book. The second half only focuses on how Odysseus plans to kill all 118 of his wife's suitors and regain his “masculine prowess”.Misogyny, Slavery, and the Necessity of Taking Context into Account:This brings me back to my usual problem with ancient texts: I have to shut my whole system of moral judgment (with modern standards) to engage with these stories. This was much easier to do in the Iliad because the setting was a battlefield, and war is never nice and moral, but Odyssey's most violent parts happen in Odysseus' own home, in times of peace, and at least partly out of sheer lust for vengeance (in contrast with the sense of duty in warriors). In this regard, the Odyssey was harder to put up with for me. Every problem I had with the Iliad is present here too, just harder to look past.There's a scene where Telemachus hangs twelve slave women (who'd slept with the suitors, thus "dishonoring" Odysseus and his family). He says he doesn't want to grant them an easy death by stabbing them, but make them suffer to death. To me, this is excessive even within the context. It's just so unnecessarily violent. Misogyny in the Odyssey is expressed in different ways than the Iliad, but it's still very much present, and it's even more unsettling. Slavery is also a lot more visible and taken for granted in the Odyssey. Even so, I won't make a hassle out of it because of the obvious reason of context. The Odyssey begs to be read, enjoyed, and understood within its ancient, alien context, and I acknowledge that. Intricate DetailsNow, that doesn't mean that I won't give the book the credit it deserves. Many parts of it are interesting, i.e. the delicate attention to detail: Fingers of women weaving carpets are described as "quick rustling poplar leaves". The scene where Odysseus suddenly aims his bow at Antinous describes the latter as "mindlessly twirling the wine in his goblet", ignorant of what's about to happen. There are many examples of meticulous attention to detail that make the book astonishing.The Gods Are MissingThe less serious downside of the Odyssey is that the gods, comic, irreverent, and hilarious as they are, don't get the well-deserved spotlight they had in The Iliad. Athena is present throughout and we see glimpses of Zeus, Poseidon, and Hermes, but there are none of the stupid bickerings on top of Olympus that gave the Iliad a comical edge. The absence of the dear old ox-eyed Lady Hera and her hilarious scheming is quite unfortunate.The Unreliable NarratorInterestingly, Odysseus is an unreliable narrator. Contrary to what is assumed about ancient heroes, he's not black or white, but a complicated man, "a man of many ways" that is capable of bravery, resilience, and love as well as deceit, vengeance and pure evil. His quick wits allow him to lie to everyone and conjure up interesting stories (which are totally false). It looks like most people take it for granted that he's truthful when recounting his adventures, They may as well be fabrications like the rest of his lies. The 'narrator' never testifies for his stories. He says he encountered the Sirens and sea monsters Charybdis and Scylla, but when have we ever seen Odysseus tell the truth? I think this bit about the unreliability of Odysseus makes the whole story a lot more intriguing. The whole story is open to interpretation, you take from it what you will.🔺🔻🔺 Notes on TranslationsThere are lots of other interesting themes and details in the Odyssey, but I want give an overview of the translations I read, in case it helps someone choose one, if undecided. I like comparing translations, and with Covid lockdown in full swing, I had ample time to fully compare five different translations of the Odyssey into English: two from cover to cover (Fitzgerald & Emily Wilson), most of Lattimore, and consulted the other two only occasionally (Rieu and Fagles). I enjoyed reading everyone's introduction, translator's notes, and commentaries far more than I enjoyed the actual story. Disclaimer: I am neither a translator nor a classicist; I don't know ancient Greek, and I am by no means an expert here. I am well aware that "translation is the art of failure" and that not a single translation can fully, completely capture the original. However, I really like comparing translations, and each of them has its merits and shortcomings. I can get a better understanding of the whole book by reading the interpretations and insights of different translators.First, I will quote the same lines from each of these translations so you can get a sense of what they're like. (IV. 561-67) Emily Wilson: “Gods will carry youoff to the world’s end, to Elysium.Those fields are ruled by tawny Rhadamanthusand life is there the easiest for humans.There is no snow, no heavy storms or rain,but Ocean always sends up gentle breezesof Zephyr to refresh the people there.” Fitzgerald: “The gods intend you for Elysionwith golden Rhadamanthos at the world’s end,where all existence is a dream of ease.Snowfall is never known there, neither longfrost of winter, nor torrential rain,but only mild and lulling airs from Oceanbearing refreshment for the souls of men—the West Wind always blowing.” Lattimore: “The immortals will convoy you to the Elysian Field, and the limits of the earth, where fair-haired Rhadamanthys is, and where there is made the easiest life for mortals,for there is no snow, nor much winter there, nor is there everrain, but always the stream of the Ocean sends up breezes of the West Wind blowing briskly for the refreshment of mortals.” Fagles: “The deathless ones will sweep you off to the world’s end,the Elysian Fields, where gold-haired Rhadamanthys waits,where life glides on in immortal ease for mortal man;no snow, no winter onslaught, never a downpour therebut night and day the Ocean River sends up breezes,singing winds of the West refreshing all mankind.” Rieu: “The immortals will send you to the Elysian Fields at the world’s end, to join auburn-haired Rhadamanthus in the land where living is made easy for mankind, where no snow falls, no strong winds blow and there is never any rain, but day after day the West Wind’s tuneful breeze comes in from the Ocean to refresh its people.” The Emily Wilson TranslationI will write more about this one because it's the most interesting. Wilson's new (2017) translation has a respectable 90-page introduction going into detail about the history and context of the epic, the origin and making of it, the Homeric question (whether a single person called Homer ever existed or not), the qualities of Homeric verse and epics, its deep roots in traditions of oral performance, the influence of myths and beliefs from inside and outside Greece on these poems, the debates and studies that scholars have focused on, each major character in the story, themes, and the topic of translation itself. Her introduction is so informative and insightful that it deserves five stars on its own.Her comments on translations of Homer throughout the centuries are very interesting. She says that each translation is closely connected with the translator's individual interpretation of the poem, and with the norms of the society in which it was produced. For example, Chapman (1615) presents Odysseus "as a true soldier and gentleman, a proto-Christian, and proto-Stoic whose greatest virtue is his ability to endure suffering and control his impulses." Alexander Pope's 18th-century translation "makes the Odyssey into a text about those essentially 18th-century preoccupations: proper manners and good government".Wilson argues that each translation is as much a product of its own time as it is an ancient text. She continues that "elevated, grandiloquent" language used is many translations is not accurate: all translations are "modern" next to Homer. 18th century English is no closer to Homer than 21st century English is. Therefore, her translation is written in a modern language, which makes it a fast-paced and easy read but also (in my opinion) it takes away some of the charm from it. It reads almost like a 'simplified' synopsis - and whether you enjoy that or not is up to you. She also says she's avoided importing contemporary types of sexism into the text. Other translators have used derogatory language (such as calling the slave women "sluts") and that this labeling isn't present in the original Greek. Since I can't check the original, I'll take her word for it.She claims to look at the Odyssey through a female lens and she tries hard to make a case for the female characters (mostly Penelope). While I appreciate her effort, I still fail to think of the Odyssey as anything but misogynistic. Penelope does not have the agency and assertiveness that Wilson and many others would like to think she has. Trying to force assertiveness on female characters that really are just victimized in a patriarchal context is a bit counterproductive. I'd rather just accept that fact and move on.Overall, I highly recommend this wonderful edition (with emphasis on the amazing intro). Her translation is readable and simple but I would suggest you also take a quick look at one of the other translations with a more "elevated" language if you enjoy some lyricism and grandiose lines (whether those reflect the original or not, I can't tell). The Lattimore Translation Is the most 'literary' by far (which Wilson considers a negative) but I enjoyed reading it a lot because his writing is beautiful. It also relatively stays clear of unnecessary sexist or charged language. - It has an introduction in which Lattimore explores main themes, the narrative, and characters, and also compares the Odyssey with the Iliad. - It provides line numbers (from the original) and doesn't miss any details.- It uses the Greek form of the names (i.e. Kirke not Circe). I enjoyed it overall and if you have it, I wouldn't go seeking a different one. The Fitzgerald Translation This is the one I enjoyed reading the most. Its language is not as elevated as Lattimore; it's still eloquent and poetic, but in a very readable and fluid way. It doesn't make the poem too difficult, but I still like the lyricism it provides. The meter is more noticeable than Wilson's attempted iambic pentameter, and on a few occasions (whenever Hermes is speaking and the song of the Sirens), it actually rhymes. I think this one is my favourite translation that balances readability with enjoyable poetry. - It has an afterword in which poetic qualities of the original poem are explored and he tries his best to show how he's tried to stay true to the meaning while also paying a lot of attention to rhythm and lyricism. He provides many lines in Greek (which I couldn't read) and elaborates on his examples. - It uses Greek versions of the names. - Provides a list of further reading and critical texts about Homer, and has a glossary. - The only problem with it is that it doesn't provide line numbers. (not a problem for a casual read, but if you're trying to compare translation, the lack of line numbers gets frustrating.)Still, I definitely recommend it. The Fagles Translation This one is easy to read, it's pretty straightforward, but it uses some modern slangs and language that feel a bit out of place. I didn't connect with it that much and it didn't stand out, so I only consulted it on certain interesting phrases. - It has an introduction by Bernard Knox which is almost a repetition of his introduction to the Iliad so I would say skip it if you already read that one. - It uses the more familiar Romanized names (i.e. Telemachus and not Telemakhos) On the plus side:- It provides line numbers, offers maps, genealogy charts, suggestions on further reading, and a pronunciation glossary which are great. The Rieu Translation The only prose version that I consulted. It's fine if you like prose. It's easy to understand and straightforward (but I only consulted it occasionally). It uses what Wilson called unnecessary sexist language. - It has a nice and long 40-page introduction in which he explores the history of Homeric poems, reading Homer, problems with the Odyssey, themes and individual characters, and also problems and limitations of translation itself. It has a note on its previous 1964 edition, too.- It uses Romanized names.- Provides original line numbers within the prose (sometimes mid-sentence). - Has maps, many endnotes, and a list of suggestions for further reading (similar to Fagles' suggestions). Final thoughts on translation if you have no idea which one to read: If you want something that's very readable, straightforward, and has a great introduction: get Wilson's. If you are picky about poetry and want something that reads like an eloquent epic poem, but is still readable enough, get Fitzgerald's. Final RatingFive stars for everyone's introductions (especially Wilson's), three stars for the story (compared to Iliad whose rating I upgraded to 5), and 3.5 stars as my final rating. In the end, I feel like I enjoyed the introductions and commentary more than the story itself. Even though I still like the Iliad more, I certainly loved immersing myself in the world of the Odyssey and learning a lot from it.
1721668713	Book Review 4 out of 5 stars to The Odyssey, published around 800 BC and written by Homer. I was tasked with reading this epic work as part of an Advanced Placement English course in between my junior and senior years of high school. I loved literature back then as much as I do now, and my reading habits probably grew from everything my teachers encouraged us to read during the summer hiatus and mid-year breaks. We sampled literature from all over the world, and this Greek tome was one of the many we read. We only read certain sections, as it's over 500 pages long, but I finished it on my own over winter break that year. It often depends on the translation version you read, as it might make it better or worse for you. I don't recall which one the teacher selected, but it must have been good as I did my quarterly papers on both this book and Homer's other work, The Iliad. The Odyssey was an amazing tale of a journey through the famed Trojan Wars in ancient Greece. Meeting all the gods and goddesses, understanding the genealogy and family structure, the plots between all their shenanigans and games... for someone with my hobbies and interests, this was perfect. The only part I found a bit dull was when it truly went into war-time battle descriptions, as reading details about fighting is not typically something I enjoy. But the soap opera-like quality of these characters cum deity realities was just absorbing fun. The lyrics and the words fly off the pages. The images and the metaphors are pretty. And if you know enough about Greek history, you almost feel as if you're in the story. About Me For those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.
3504042351	I’m not a scholar, so I can only offer my personal experience. First, I want to say that I thought this would be a daunting task - an epic poem!? From Ancient Greece!? But, it was such an enjoyable and accessible read, I’m grateful to my goodreads friend who encouraged me to move forward. Second, I highly recommend this version, published by Penguin, written in prose, and covered in a pretty design, by Coralie Bickford-Smith. Not only is it gorgeous on your shelf, it’s physically comfortable to read, with its perfect size and soothing ivory pages.As for the story, it’s full of action and imagination, fun characters and fantastical creatures. I especially enjoyed Odysseus’ fanciful encounters and challenges with these creatures, with the underworld, and with the goddesses. I was disappointed by how little effort was put into his time with Calypso, and adored his time with Circe. (If you haven’t read Madeline Miller’s “Circe,” and you enjoy mythology, please do).The story slowed for me when he returned home. Odysseus is portrayed as a character of wit, clever manipulation and disguise. Much of his return is dedicated to this display, and I found myself wondering why I had to read full, false accounts of his adventures as he told them while in disguise. According to some quick internet research, the purpose of these passages was to show his intelligence by how he wove truth into fiction, and so was able to inhabit a new identity. But, I found these - after experiencing his dramatic adventures, pointless, and so motivated to research their point.Don’t worry. It gets better again, in my opinion. The ending is plenty dramatic, and completely satisfying.Reading this made me want to reread Circe. I also picked up Atwood’s The Penelopiad. Following this thread has been very enjoyable.
3762711747	AHAHAHAHA I FINISHED THIS IN ABOUT NINE COLLECTIVE HOURS OF READINGWITH AN HOUR TO SPARE BEFORE MY ENGLISH FINALUPDATE: I FAILED THE FINAL BUT IT'S OKAY
1700103393	I first read extracts of the Odyssey in junior high and high school and some years later purchased the highly acclaimed Fitzgerald translation. It is a masterpiece that brings out the strengths of this iconic story of the voyage of Ulysses from the fall of Troy back to his native Ithaca and his beloved and besieged Penelope. The story is highly readable and full of adventure and misadventure, monsters and heroes and ultimately a triumphant voyage home. Yes, it is very masculine in perspective so I cannot excuse that except to say that if you read James Joyce's version and the final chapter of Penelope, you can see a far more feminine viewpoint. Regardless, I found this book more entertaining pound for pound than the Iliad or the Aeneid and I hope you will too.
3737079707	Περισσότερα από 3000 χρόνια ταξιδεύουν τα ομηρικά έπη, μέσα στον κυκλικό και γραμμικό χρόνο των θεών και των ανθρώπων, για να θρυμματίζουν σταθερά κι απαράγραπτα τις καρδιές σ' αυτό το σημείο: [...]ἔνθα κύων κεῖτ᾽ Ἄργος, ἐνίπλειος κυνοραιστέων.δή τότε γ᾽, ὡς ἐνόησεν Ὀδυσσέα ἐγγύς ἐόντα,οὐρῇ μέν ῥ᾽ ὅ γ᾽ ἔσηνε καὶ οὔατα κάββαλεν ἄμφω,ἄσσον δ᾽ οὐκέτ᾽ ἔπειτα δυνήσατο οἷο ἄνακτοςἐλθέμεν· αὐτάρ ὁ νόσφιν ἰδών ἀπομόρξατο δάκρυ,ῥεῖα λαθών Εὔμαιον [...]Κι ενώ εκείνοι συναλλάσσοντας τα λόγια τους μιλούσαν,ένα σκυλί που ζάρωνε, σήκωσε ξαφνικά τ᾽ αφτιά και το κεφάλι του —ο Άργος του καρτερικού Οδυσσέα! Τον είχε ο ίδιοςμεγαλώσει, όμως δεν πρόλαβε να τον χαρεί· πρωτύτερααναχώρησε να πάει στην άγια Τροία.Τα πρώτα χρόνια οι νιούτσικοι τον έβγαζαν κυνήγι,και κυνηγούσε αγριοκάτσικα, ζαρκάδια και λαγούς.Μετά τον παραμέλησαν, αφότου ο κύρης του ταξίδεψε μακριά,και σέρνονταν στην κοπριά, χυμένη σε σωρούς από τις μούλεςκαι τα βόδια στην αυλόθυρα μπροστά, απ᾽ όπουτου Οδυσσέα οι δούλοι σήκωναν κάθε τόσο να κοπρίσουντο μέγα τέμενός του.Εκεί τώρα σερνόταν το σκυλί, μ᾽ αμέτρητα τσιμπούρια ο Άργος.Κι όμως, αναγνωρίζοντας τον Οδυσσέα στο πλάι του,σάλεψε την ουρά του και κατέβασε πάλι τ᾽ αφτιά του,όμως τη δύναμη δεν βρήκε να φτάσει πιο κοντά στον κύρη του.Τον είδε εκείνος, και γυρίζοντας αλλού το βλέμμα του,σκούπισε ένα δάκρυ —από τον Εύμαιο κρυφά,για να τον ξεγελάσει.
2128870387	Really enjoyed this new translation very much. 4.5*
2311361340	After having read and enjoyed Fagles' translation not too long ago, I decided to join with a group reading a new translation by Emily Wilson, the first woman to take on this task in English. This has proved to be an excellent decision. While I have always had respect for those who translate literature, I now realize even more fully how seemingly small, insignificant details can radically alter one’s perception of a classic or at least cause you to reconsider long-held beliefs about characters or events (be they historic or mythical). Wilson’s translation has done that for me by its lean style which, for me, serves to emphasize more of the humanity of the humans and the human-like behavior of the gods who influence the action.There is so much here but I believe my response largely stems from Wilson’s chosen style and word choice. While I love Fagles’ translation for its poetry and imagery, I love Wilson’s for where it has led me and my thoughts. For that credit must also go to our wonderful group....to be continued
5857612062	ادیسه چندین سال پس از جنگ تروا رو روایت می‌کنه. بعد از جنگ تروا و پیروزی یونانیان، نفرین خدایان باعث میشه اونها در راه برگشت سختی‌های زیادی تحمل کنند و این کتاب به طور خاص به اولیس پرداخته. سالها پس از اینکه اولیس هنوز به خانه برنگشته، مردان ایتاک به صرافت ازدواج با پنه‌لوپ همسر اولیس افتادند و با گستاخی باعث رنج و عذاب اون و پسرش تلماک شدند. میشه گفت در مجموع کتاب سه بخش کلی داره. قسمتی مربوط به خواستگاران، تلماک و تلاش برای یافتن پدر، قسمتی شرح سفر اولیس و قسمت سوم برگشتن اولیس به خانه. این کتاب رو بیشتر از ایلیاد دوست داشتم چون اتفاقات و جریانهای خیلی بیشتر و جذابتری داشت.ه
766318254	آخرین سفر اودیسئوستصور عمومی این است که پایان سفر "اودیسئوس"، جایی ست که با شادی و خوشحالی به آغوش خانواده اش بر می گردد.اما این پایان نیست. نه برای اودیسئوس، نه. برای اودیسئوس این تازه آغاز اصلی ترین ماجراست. اودیسئوسی که "کوکلوپس" غول یک چشم را کور کرد، اودیسئوسی که از دهان هیولای دریا "خاروبدیس" بیرون جست، اودیسئوسی که با "پوزئیدون" خدای دریا پنجه در پنجه افکند، اودیسئوسی که یارانش را از هزار مهلکه گذراند، حال باید بنشیند و همسرش "پنه لوپه" را تماشا کند که چطور آرام آرام پارچه می بافد و پسر جوانش "تله ماخوس" را ببیند که چطور هر روز و هر روز گوسفندان را به چرا می برد، بنگرد که چطور همه چیز به آرامی کسالت بار و بی معنایی می گذرد و او قدم به قدم به سوى مرگ محتوم خود پیش می رود، مرگی که بارها در ماجراجویی های خود شکستش داده بود. اما اکنون، چگونه باید پیرمرْگى را شکست داد؟"هومر"، به شیوه ی نویسندگان امروزی، تنها مقدمات داستان اودیسئوس را برای ما باز گفته و داستان را دقیقاً در نقطه ی شروع به پایان رسانده تا خودمان حدس بزنیم چه تراژدی عظیم و توصیف ناپذیری در برابر اودیسئوس، این قهرمان محبوب ما قرار گرفته است: تراژدی بی معنایی و کسالت. تراژدی زندگی آرام!این است که شاعران بعدی، زندگی اودیسئوس را از همان جا که هومر به پایان رساند، آغاز کرده اند: همواره همین است، چه در روایت "دانته"، چه در روایت "آلفرد تنیسون"، اودیسئوس، اودیسئوسی که از مبارزه با خدایان و دیوها سربلند بیرون آمده بود، اکنون در مبارزه با زندگی آرام، کمر خم می کند. عاقبت بوی نمک دریاهای ناشناخته، بوی شن ساحل های دوردست، آرامش نمی گذارد. چه پایانی جز این می شود برای او تصور کرد؟ یک بار دیگر یارانش را جمع می کند، و فریاد می زند «زندگی آرام و بیهوده را واگذارید و بیایید بار دیگر به جستجوی چیزی که خود نمی دانیم چیست بادبان بکشیم!»﻿﻿«کوشیدن، جستجو کردن،نیافتن، و باز تسلیم نشدن.»آلفرد تنیسون، اولیس﻿
1977012302	The Journey Of The WestHomer's Odyssey is the prototypical "journey" of Western literature. The epic tells of the wanderings of the Greek hero Odysseus, King of Ithaca. Odysseus spent ten years with the Greeks at Troy (he is an important character in Homer's Iliad) and devised the strategem of the Trojan Horse which led to the fall of Troy. Following the fall of Troy, Odysseus wandered for ten years before his return to Ithaca. The Odyssey celebrates his trials during this long period and his ultimate vindication upon his return to Ithaca.The Odyssey differs in tone and content from the Iliad. Simone Weil, a mid-20th century French writer, described the Iliad as the work of Western literature which best explored the use and limitations of force. Battle scenes, death, and the human cost and folly of war are realistically if heroically described. The Odyssey is more in the nature of romance. It surely has moments of grandeur and heroism, but its story is in the telling and in the journeying and in the adventures of Odysseus along the way.The tale of the Iliad, and of Achilles' wrath, involves only a few days in the Trojan War and the poet of the Iliad recounts his story in a forward-moving chronology. The story is focused in that the main action takes place entirely in Troy and its environs. The Odyssey is much more diffuse, covering as it does the wanderings of Odysseus for ten years. The scene shifts frequently and the story is told with flashbacks and shifting tenses and locations. The bulk of the action (the last 12 books of the epic) occur in Ithaca after Odysseus returns home. These books are recounted in the voice of the poet. (Homer) The first four books of the Odyssey recount a smaller-scale journey of Telemachus, Odysseus's son, as he searches for news of his father and tries to avoid death at the hands of the suitors of Penelope who are plaguing Ithaca and plundering Odysseus's estate. (In addition, many of the women servants are having affairs with the suitors.) The middle section of the book deals with Odysseus's adventures, with mythical characters such as the Cyclops, Scylla and Charibdis, the rock-throwing Laestroginians, the Lotus eaters, the sirens, and many others. We learn of Odysseus's long but ultimately unsatisfactory dalliances with Circe and with Callypso and his perseverance in returning home.The most striking element of the poem for me was Book 11 which chronicles Odysseus's journey to Hades and which teaches him that human life is precious and irreplaceable for all its pain and suffering. Much of the middle section of the book is told as a flashback with Odysseus speaking in his own voice. There is much in the Odyssey (unlike the Iliad) about the nature and function of epic poetry and about its performance.The Odyssey concludes with Odysseus' slaughter of the many suitors of his faithful wife Penelope and with his reuniting with his wife, aged father Laertes and son Telemachus. Odysseus is a wily, much-battered, and cunning hero. But in his perseverance and strength, he is a hero nonetheless.The Odyssey is a much-translated work. I found this translation by Robert Fagles helped me get into and involved with the poem. The translation is in a modern American free verse idiom which to me lets the poem speak and does not call attention to itself as a translation. For a work such as the Odyssey, I think that if the translation moves and the reader is drawn into the work, the translator is doing a good job. By this test, the translation is outstanding.There is an excellent introduction by Bernard Knox which introduces the reader to the scholarly issues surrounding the composition of the Odyssey and the Iliad and which discusses as well the major themes of the poem.The Odyssey and the Iliad are works to be read and reread at many stages of life. They should probably be explored in several translations for those, (most readers) who don't read the original Greek. This is a stirring epic poem of what has become the journey of the West.Robin Friedman
5006643792	Odysseus' decade-long voyage home through the unchartered seas was an uncertain, mystical, and prophetic journey comprised of divine revelations, natural temptations, and struggles that were overcome by Odysseus' unwavering perseverance, cleverness, and spiritual guidance; a pilgrimage of introspection and humans determination along with the power of imagination. Homer's illustrations of Odysseus' adventurous voyage and Penelope's skillful handle of her suitors while maintaining an unswerving loyalty to her husband were a pleasure to read, where Odysseus' ultimate handling of his wife's suitors towards the end of the epic poem was excessively barbaric for my taste. Nevertheless, Odysseus' and Penelope's journey of progression and determination has left a strong impression on me.
22479287	3.5 stars.As a lover of the Greek myths I've always thought it odd that I've never read The Odyssey. I think the sheer size of it, and the epic way it has always been written in the past has always put me off. Plus, surely by this point everyone knows the story of Odysseus and how he gets home after the Trojan War. What I didn't expect was a lot of talk of the sacred right of hospitality and how it is used both respectfully and also abused.Strangers are sacred to Zeus, and as such are protected when asking for shelter. We all know what happened in Game of Thrones at the Red Wedding when this type of thing goes wrong, so it should come as no surprise that some things go down when Odysseus returns to Ithaca to find his home ruined by men looking to take his loyal wife Penelope as their new bride. Everyone believes him dead, but Odysseus is the prime example of a trickster, an intelligent man bent on scheming. It's one of the reasons Athena loves him so much after all. So taking on various disguises he sets about constructing his plan to take the men down with the help of his son, Telemachus. I didn't expect this section of the story to be so long. I genuinely thought that the bulk of the story would consist of Odysseus's travels home facing the sirens and the cyclops and the sacred cows. It wasn't - and for that I felt a little let down as it was by the far the most interesting part of the story. Also, Odysseus at times just isn't that likeable. He's proud, with a quick temper, and he seems to think he's better than everyone else. Except his beloved Athena. He doesn't even seem to give Penelope any credit for remaing loyal for 20 years for a husband she thinks is dead.I will give credit to this translation, which I found made the text incredibly accessible and easy to read. It flows in a way that makes it feel like it should be read aloud, and adds to the overall experience.
2044050588	*Originally rated 4.5 stars, but after rereading it multiple times and also having the chance to study it at university and still being endlessly fascinated by the story rather than growing bored by it, I'm bumping it up to the full 5 stars!
4260800679	3,5 aylık bir maceranın sonuna geldim. Okurluk hayatımın en büyük kırılmalarından biri oldu İlyada ve Odysseia. Bundan sonraki okurluk hayatım temelinden sarsıldı ve iyi ki de öyle oldu. Daha önce sanki karanlık bir yolda yönümü çok da bilemeden okuyormuşum da artık bir ışık yandı ve etrafımı görerek okuyor gibiyim.Azra Erhat'ın her iki kitaba yazdığı önsözler ve Homeros -Gül ile Söyleşi- kitabını okumadan bu iki kitabın dünya sanat tarihinde nerede durduğunu ve kitapların anlattıklarını anlamam mümkün olmayacaktı, sayesinde okurluk hayatım aydınlandı.Odysseia'yı okurken sık sık bölümleri farklı insanlar yazmış hissine kapıldım, bununla birlikte İlyada'ya göre daha kolay okunuyor, sürekli bir coğrafyadan ötekine doğru akan bir aksiyon olduğu için.Bölümlerin farklı insanlar tarafından yazıldığını düşünmeme bir sebep de bölümler arasında bazı tutarsızlıklar olması. Bir bölümde okuduğum bir şey ilerleyen bölümde başka bir şekilde karşıma çıktı ya da ben öyle hissettim.
2452075356	3-3.5*El primer texto clásico que leo y muy a mi pesar reconozco que me ha costado un poco. Tenía dos ediciones diferentes: una en prosa y otra en verso, y por cabezonería lo leí en verso cuando yo misma veía que en prosa lo entendía y podía seguir la historia mucho mejor, además de que la traducción me gustaba más.Por un lado muy contenta de haberlo leído y recordando momentazos épicos de la trama pero por otro un poco apenada porque no ha tenido el impacto que esperaba.¿Recomendaciones para seguir leyendo literatura clásica? Porque creo que dejaré la Ilíada para dentro de un buen tiempo...xD
7738025309	Relectura después de 25 años. No se puede decir mucho más ni mucho menos de esta obra, pero perseveraré, cual héroe aqueo, para lograr decir algo que le haga justicia a este poema épico. Y es que el ya decir poema hace que nos absorba la idea lírica moderna que tenemos al respecto. Pero La Odisea es un poema en el sentido más estricto de la palabra: el verso, la métrica, el ritmo, la sonoridad. En el sentido narrativo literario en realidad se acerca más a la novela. De hecho, me atrevería a decir que es una novela poemada. Es una novela siglos antes de que se inventara la novela, por lo tanto, es una proto-novela. Y dado que las traducciones, por más bien que estén hechas, no nos van a permitir conocer jamás la cualidad poética original de la obra, entonces de lo que cabe hablar es de las formas literarias que yacen en el esqueleto de la obra.Lo principal es el hito que supone esta obra: es la inauguración de la literatura occidental y eso no es poco. La Odisea (más que La Ilíada) es la matriz narrativa de la literatura occidental y moderna. Es una obra adelantada a su tiempo, pues presenta una estructura y unos recursos literarios completamente innovadores que no serían retomados sino siglos después con la novela moderna. De aquí sale todo. De aquí sale La Divina Comedia, Shakespeare y El Quijote, por sólo nombrar unos pocos grandes. Ahora, lo que más sobresale es el manejo del tiempo y la combinación de distintas narraciones y temporalidades. La obra inicia a media res, es decir, a mitad de la historia, con una narración a tiempo ficcional presente, en Ítaca, con Penélope y Telémaco, hijo suyo y de Ulises, en la angustia de la espera de Ulises que, tras veinte años, no ha regresado aún de la guerra de Troya, terminada diez años antes. Telémaco decide partir en busca de su padre ante la invasión de su casa de una montonera de pretendientes de Penélope que exigen que ella escoja uno para casarse, mientras se comen todo su ganado y despilfarran su patrimonio. Luego viene una segunda parte en la que Ulises, después de sus aventuras extremas en su camino a casa, llega a donde Alcínoo, rey de los feacios, a quien narra toda su travesía durante esos diez años, es decir, conocemos los hechos pasados desde el presente ficcional. Finalmente, una tercera parte en la que Ulises por fin regresa a Ítaca, en donde primero finge ser otra persona -gracias a la ayuda de la diosa Atenea- para poder llegar a su casa y cobrar venganza en contra de los pretendientes y de quienes lo han traicionado.Esta estructura primordial es ya un acto literario vanguardista, pues rompe narración lineal y cronológica, para abrir las posibilidades de la ficción. El relato dentro del relato, que perfeccionará Cervantes siglos después. No olvidemos que se estima que la Odisea fue compuesta al rededor del siglo VIII a.C. pero no hay una fecha exacta, ya que posiblemente fue transcrita mucho tiempo después, dado que su origen es la tradición oral. De hecho está compuesta para ser recitada por los aedos, cantores épicos, y de ahí muchas de las particularidades de la narración, entre ellas, las figuras retóricas repetitivas como “Atenea la ojizarca”, "Ulises Laertíada mañero”, “Aurora, la de los Dedos rosáceos”, etc.Pero también están las distintas voces narrativas que en cierto modo le dotan de una cualidad polifónica, ya que el narrador omnisciente cede la posta a varios personajes que narran los hechos desde la primera persona del singular. Y es ahí en donde entra en juego el dispositivo literario absolutamente rompedor: Homero (o quienes fuera que estuviesen detrás de la creación de esta obra) permite el desarrollo de la historia dentro de la historia, es decir, la convivencia de dos tiempos a la vez, al crear una analepsis con la narración en primera persona de Ulises acerca de sus aventuras pasadas. Allí el propio Odiseo cuenta cómo luego de regresar de la guerra de Troya ha sido detenido en infinidad de dificultades por haber ofendido a los dioses, primero a Poseidón y luego a Helios. Posteriormente, la historia retoma el tiempo presente ficcional, con lo que genera un dinamismo y un estilismo que crea una narrativa nueva. Y allí, al volver al presente ficcional, asistimos a la invención de un nuevo recurso literario: la retrospección o flashback. Esto sucede en la escena de Ulises cubriendo la cicatriz que le dejó la herida de un jabalí en su niñez para que no le reconozca su nana; el narrador regresa en el tiempo para contar ese pasaje del jabalí. Estos dos recursos son un cambio paradigmático absoluto, pues ese manejo del tiempo, finamente estudiado y elaborado, abre un universo de posibilidades a la ficción. Allí, más que en el mito, es cuando la poesía y la narración se separan de la realidad. Esa diferenciación entre realidad y ficción que crea el manejo del tiempo es lo que inaugura a la Literatura. Por si fuera poco, La Odisea también inventa algo que Shakespeare, por ejemplo, utilizó y que también utilizó Martorell en Tirant Lo Blanc (y que lo hizo vanguardista en su tiempo) y es el recurso de las cámaras separadas en las que transcurren acciones simultáneas. Esto se muestra claramente en la escena de cuando Penélope está en su recámara hablando con sus criadas mientras, al mismo tiempo Ulises, que se ha hecho pasar por un menesteroso, está discutiendo con alguien por la comida. Luego están los distintos niveles ficcionales. Y es que, gracias a la construcción del personaje de Ulises, tenemos una ficción dentro de otra ficción. El argumento de la Odisea abre varias ramificaciones ficcionales al narrar acciones presentes y pasadas, pero también hay otra ramificación: la de las acciones ficticias. Al llegar a Ítaca, Ulises se inventa una historia sobre sí mismo, sus origenes, su país (dice que es de Creta), su nombre incluso, y esto abre una brecha entre la realidad dentro de la ficción y la ficción dentro de la ficción. El juego este entre ficciones es absolutamente novedoso y luego lo veremos en autores como Borges.Toda esa recursividad, no solo en forma, sino en fondo, trama y argumento, es lo que vuelve tan emblemática a esta obra. Si se rastrea la historia de la literatura occidental, todos los caminos conducirán a Ítaca y todo lo leído nos llevará allá. Por ello creo que mientras más temprano se lea La Odisea en la ruta lectora, mejor será y más se aprovechará. Eso sí, siempre será mejor tener un previo conocimiento aunque sea contextual de esta obra, pues de lo contrario no se aprovechará toda la riqueza que encierra, ya que es posible que todo lo novedoso de su estructura y trama no sea entendido como tal, dadas los siglos y siglos de literatura que se han cimentado sobre esta obra. Parecerá que no es para tanto cuando se han leído cientos de novelas, pero lo que no se nos debe olvidar es que todas gravitan al rededor de este centro que es La Odisea. Y aún así es portentosa. Pero sí hay que tener un mínimo conocimiento de mitología griega y de La guerra de Troya, pues hay muchas referencias que se pueden escapar. Por ejemplo, en el capítulo final, la escena que vuelve a romper la estructura de la obra se desarrolla en el Hades. Las almas de los pretendientes asesinados han llegado hasta ahí y se encuentran con Agamenón y Aquiles, rey capitán y héroe de la guerra de Troya, respectivamente. El argumento toma un giro inesperado, se desprende de la narración madre y nos lleva a un plano literario metafísico que rompe la trama. Aquí se cuenta un capítulo de la historia que no se ha contado antes: los funerales de Aquiles (protagonista de La Ilíada). La escena de las almas penando en el inframundo junto con la de Ulises bajando en vida al Hades previamente, por supuesto que nos remiten a la Divina Comedia, convirtiendo a Odiseo en el primer Dante, en el primer Cristo (ambos hombres vivos descienden al infierno y van al cielo). Por otro lado, otro de los recursos que podría pasar desapercibido es el cambio de narrador omnisciente en tercera persona del singular a la segunda persona del singular: el "tú" que usa exclusivamente el narrador con Eumeo, el porquero que es el primero en recibir a Ulises en Ítaca. Este cambio genera una inquietud en el lector que en realidad es un oyente, y hace que la tensión dramática aumente. Ese “tú” lo que hace es romper la cuarta pared (siglos antes de que el teatro la rompiera), e involucrar al espectador/lector al interpelarlo con la figura del porquero. Homero usa este artilugio para generar una empatía especial con este personaje que simboliza la bondad y virtud humana, y tiene una intención de generar incluso compasión. Esto ya fue usado en la Ilíada con dos personajes y es un recurso retórico llamado “Apóstrofe”. Esto hace que el narrador deje de ser invisible y se materialice. Es la literatura mostrando sus costuras. Nuevamente la ficción declarando sus intenciones, la génesis de la Literatura. Sobre todo lo demás -la carga simbólica y psicológica, los arquetipos, las capas interpretativas del mito (incluido el viaje del héroe), el valor arqueológico e histórico de la obra, la ventana a los orígenes de la civilización occidental que es, y todo análisis argumental y de personajes- se ha dicho y se puede decir mucho. Pero eso ya sería una reseña demasiado larga, más bien un ensayo, y por eso lo dejo hasta aquí. Obra de obras.
2335173587	odysseus having a mental breakdown in every single chapter is truly the most relatable part of this epic poem
3023925480	After many years of agony and absence from one’s home, a person can begin enjoying grief. This feels a little silly to rate given that it’s the Odyssey, but I did read it and I did enjoy myself. Some notes on things I enjoy about this translation:➽ Emily Wilson in her intro focuses on Xenia –hospitality. The villains in the Oddysey are villainous because they either pervert hospitality – by eating guests instead of feeding them – or fail to engage with pompe [sending] as defined by Menelaus’s declaration that “To force a visitor to stay / is just as bad as pushing him to go”. The suitors, too, pervert hospitality by eating too much; and ultimately, so does Odysseus in slaughtering them. ➽ There’s a similarly intriguing focus on the character of Odysseus as not good or bad but clever and cunning above all. As established as the chapter begins, Odysseus is not the favorite of Athena because he is good – he is the favorite because he is clever. ➽ Penelope is a very compelling character. I kind of enjoy the ambiguity as to whether she knows her husband is home – that being said, I think she definitely has an inkling. ➽ The translation’s focus on repeating Homer’s “smaller units of sense” and its simple language to convey that “stylistic pomposity is entirely un-Homeric” is very fun. ➽ Another conceit I really enjoyed: The focus on the doglike women’s face. “The idea that it is not the woman or goddess herself, but her [Helen’s] face, that is like a dog suggests that it might be male perceptions of women, rather than female desires themselves, that threaten the social fabric.”➽ The penultimate book – Odysseus’s slaughter of the suitors – is brutal and animalistic, with gorgeous but oddly terrifying imagery. I enjoyed it quite a bit and may at some point have further thoughts about its use of violence. Youtube | TikTok | Spotify | About |
1263859009	College Reading.What amazes me about stories like this is how long it has been around. There are hundreds of generations who have read this and passed it down. This story has been around for thousands of years. To me, that is mind blowing. Truly. I recently read 'Circe' that is taken from The Odyssey and The Iliad. The story has influenced much of literature in some way. This is the ultimate quest story. I still have a hard time understanding a journey for 10 years. How your family would miss you. Cyclops, witches, Sirens, and more come from this story. I hope to re-read it some day.
6536034330	:فرهنگ هلنیستی vs فرهنگ بایبلیتقریباً این گزاره‌ مورد قبول همگان است که آنچه"فرهنگ غرب" می‌نامیمش، بر دو ستون فرهنگ هلنیستی و فرهنگ بایبلی استوار است. و بطور اخص، ادبیات غرب را زیر سایه‌ی الیاد و اودیسه‌ی هومر و کتاب مقدس می‌بینند. اما آیا این اهمیت آثار هومر و بایبل بر اروپا، به تصویرسازی و ارجاعات فراوان ادبیات و هنر اروپا به تصاویر و داستانک‌های متنوع و موقعیت‌های متعدد داخل این کتاب‌ها، برمی‌گردد؟جواب این سوال، بله‌ است، اما قطعا دلیلی ناکافی‌ست برای اینکه این آثار را ستون‌هایی برای ادبیات و هنر و فرهنگ اروپایی بدانیم.در واقع، به نظرم عهد عتیق و حماسه‌های هومر، حاملان دو تا سنت متفاوت فلسفی-الهیاتی هستند که سنت فکری/ادبیات/هنر/فرهنگ غرب بر روی آنها بنا می‌شود و گرچه این دو سنت‌هایی متضاد یکدیگر می‌باشند، اما در طی قرون متمادی، سنت هلنیستی و بایبلی به همزیستی با یکدیگر ادامه می‌دهند جالبه که اینا توی اروپا، با هم همزیستی پیدا میکنن و در فرهنگ غرب ریشه می‌دوانند.اودیسه vs سفر خروج:بیایید این بحث را با یک مثال، با مقایسه حماسه اودیسه و کتاب سفر خروج تشریح کنیم:اودیسئوس در میان دریاها، برای رسیدن به خانه خودش (ایتاکا) دست به سفر می‌زند که شرح آن در اودیسه آمده است.بطور مشابه‌ای، بنی‌اسرائیل هم برای رسیدن به خانه خودش (کنعان)، دست به سفری در میان بیابان‌ سینا می‌زند.در هر دو، مسافرانی در سفر طولانی، فرسایشی و حماسی، از منزلی به منزل دیگری حرکت می‌کنند، و پس از تحمل دشواری‌های فراوان، به خانه‌شان می‌رسند. اما در اسطوره‌شناسی تطبیقی، تفاوت‌ها و چرایی آنها بسیار بسیار مهم‌تر و قابل توجه‌تر از این شباهت‌های ظاهری می‌باشند.حال، چه تفاوتی بین این دو حماسه وجود دارد:در بایبل، این یهوه (قدرت الوهی) است که با برانگیختن بنی‌اسرائیل و دادن وعده‌ی بازگشت به "ارض موعود" (=خانه)، تبدیل نیروی محرکه‌ی آنها برای سفر می‌شود‌. و در واقع خود یهوه هم به نوعی با آن‌ها همراه می‌شود؛بنابراین این سفر حماسیِ جمعی، یک بعد مذهبی رو پیدا می‌کند و تبدیل به سفری زیارت‌گونه می‌شود که افراد با قدم گذاشتن در آن و تلاش برای به پایان رساندنش، در حالت محقق ساختن وعده‌ی الهی می‌باشند. بنابراین وقتی یک فرد مذهبی که بعدها بایبل را می‌خوانده، احتمالا سفر موسی و بنی‌اسرائیل را به مثابه‌ سفری می‌دیده که با انگیزش و پشتیبانی یهوه انجام می‌گیرد‌، همچون یک ماموریت تاریخی-مذهبی (اگرچه جاهایی بنی‌اسرائیل با تنبیه یهوه هم روبرو می‌شود، اما در مقابل طرح عظیمی که یهوه به آن می‌اندیشد، اهمیتی ندارد).بدین ترتیب است که حتی رویدادهای تاریخی‌ای مثل سفر صلیبی، سفر مؤمنان کالوینی به اولین مستعمرات امریکا، و سفر تبعیدگونه یهودیان به امریکا به دنبال استیلای نازی‌ها بر اروپا هم معنایی بایبلی به خود می‌گیرند و با سفر خروج بنی‌اسرائیل این همانی می‌شوند.اما در اودیسه، اودیسئوس از همان ابتدای سفر بازگشت به خانه، موجبات خشم خدایان (قدرت الوهی) را فراهم می‌کند، و همین باعث می‌گردد که این قدرت‌ها بکوشند که از رسیدن او به خانه‌اش جلوگیری کنند.در واقع سفر رجعت اودیسئوس و یارانش (که آنها خیلی زود حذف می‌شوند تا سفر قهرمانی، سفر انفرادی باشد)، انگار تبدیل می‌شود به یک سفر حماسی-قهرمانی و به تعبیری یک مبارزه‌ی یک انسان تنها برای غلبه بر خواست الوهیت (گرچه گاها کمک‌هایی از آسمان هم به او می‌رسد).شاید همین تنهاییِ قهرمان اودیسه در مقابل خدایان/سرنوشت/طبیعت و تلاش برای پس زدن آنها است که این حماسه هومری را برای انسان اومانیستی که بعد از رنسانس در اروپا سر بر می‌آورد، جذاب می‌کند و چنین حس همذات‌پنداری‌ای را در او برمی‌انگیزد.پ‌ن: اگر این حماسه خوانده شد، به لطف دوستانی بود که در همخوانی آن شرکت کردند.پ‌ن۲: ریویوی من بر سفر خروج:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
1940742606	The Fagles translation is brilliant.
270436796	Oh no, I didn’t! Did I just give Homer’s Odyssey 3 stars?! (Well, 3.5 really) What gall! Who the hell do I think I am?! Believe me, I am as shocked as you are. I thought I would end up liking this much more than its twin The Iliad, but the opposite turned out to be the case. Don’t get me wrong, Homer’s a great writer…he’s got a real future in the industry! (I kid, I kid) But seriously, while the Odyssey certainly contains more down to earth concerns than the vast epic of blood, guts and glory that was the Iliad, I just didn’t find it quite as compelling. As a literary artifact and founding work in the Western canon this is probably a five star book, but for me personally and my own enjoyment of it, it was still just a 3.5.I think part of this may stem from my misapprehension that The Odyssey was primarily about the adventures and travels of Odysseus on his way home from Troy. While those aspects are certainly here, they took up a much smaller proportion of the book than I thought they would. The lion’s share seems more devoted to the travails that Odysseus encounters when he does finally get home to Ithaca and has to approach his own wife and home incognito due to the presence of dozens of overzealous, greedy suitors who are bleeding his estates dry with high living as they wait for his wife Penelope to make a decision on which of them she will marry. There were also some interludes with Telemachus, Odysseus’ son, and his foray into the wider world in search of his lost father. To be frank I found Telemachus a little less interesting than his dad. The picture we get of Greek domestic life and traditions of hospitality & obligation in these segments of the poem are certainly interesting, but I think I was just hoping for a bit more adventure and a little less skulking and planning as Odysseus attempts to sound out everyone around him and gain the lay of the land. It certainly spells out why Odysseus is the “man of twists and turns”, but I found it a little less compelling.Overall there’s still a lot of great stuff going on here. The catalogue of the travails Odysseus must overcome to finally make it home after the Trojan War are probably known by everyone even if you haven’t read the Odyssey: you’ve got your adventure with the Cyclops, capture and seduction by not one, but two divine beauties (cry me a river Odysseus), the navigation between Scylla & Charybdis, the Siren’s song, a journey to the land of the dead, and an ill-conceived cattle raid on Apollo’s divine herd. For the most part these stories are related in the past tense by Odysseus himself while he’s on one of his layovers on the way to Ithaca. I also enjoyed seeing the obvious links being made between the Odyssey and The Iliad as each built upon the other and each was augmented by the lustre and resonance of the other. I especially enjoyed seeing old friends (such as Nestor, Menelaus, and most importantly Helen) in a new context as they appear in their own domestic tableaux and give some laudatory commentary on Odysseus, primarily remembering the ‘good old days’ when they were sacking Troy. Also carried over from The Iliad was the chronic meddling of the gods in human affairs. This time, however, it’s mostly restricted to two divine puppeteers: Poseidon who has a raging hate-on for Odysseus and wants to see him sunk sooner than find his way home, and Athena who views the kingly trickster as the apple of her eye. The gods still seem, therefore, to have a vested interest in the doings of humanity, though just what they gain by this, especially when the life of only a single man, and not an entire nation, is at stake is open to question. It would appear that the pride of the immortals concerns itself with all levels of human affairs, from the epic to the domestic.As noted above the preponderance of the text concerns itself with the actions of the suitors in Odysseus’ house and the plans and subterfuge our hero must undertake in order to return to his dearly remembered domestic bliss. Despite this we are given a scene that in its way is no less violent than many of the over the top battle scenes from the explicitly war-centred Iliad. The killing of the suitors may be somewhat toned down from the blood-drenched battles before the walls of Troy, but not by much. In this context I found it interesting how the spur to Odysseus’ actions, the ‘crimes’ of the suitors in their contravention of the rules of hospitality (in the spirit of what they do, if not the letter), while always spelled out explicitly and in no uncertain terms by the poet, still had a certain amount of ambiguity. Despite the fact that Odysseus is constantly presented as the wronged party it is apparent that he still feared the just retribution of the avenging furies of his victims. One wonders if Odysseus truly felt justified in his harsh actions against the suitors, or whether there was more than a little uncertainty in the justice of his actions on his part. Luckily for Odysseus his patroness Athena, through the auspices of Zeus, once again intervenes to save him from the consequences of his actions.One of the most interesting aspects of the story for me was the return to the Underworld with the spirits of the suitors after they have been slain by Odysseus. There we once again meet with the shades of the heroes of The Iliad, namely Achilles, Ajax and Agamemnon, and are given their commentary, and commendation, on the actions of Odysseus and his wife despite the complaints of the suitors. I was also struck by the observation of Agamemnon regarding the ‘luck’ of Odysseus in both having a faithful wife to come home to (something of which he would obviously be envious), and in the fact that he views him as happy in that his death will be a quiet one in the arms of his loved ones. Indeed we are presented with three visions of death: Achilles is praised and envied by Agamemnon for having died a hero’s death on the plains of Ilium and having been celebrated by his comrades-in-arms, Odysseus is envied for making his way home and having the prospect of a quiet death surrounded by those he loves, and Agamemnon singles himself out for pity due to his treacherous and untimely death at the hands of his wife and her lover. Given the unambiguous way in which the Greek Underworld is the same (in both its characteristics of eternal boredom and regret over the loss of one’s life) for all of the dead I’m not sure I think it matters exactly how one died…even the ‘fortunate’ ones end up pining for the life they can no longer experience. I suppose, though, that it’s all about how you are remembered, and your death is the capstone to that. Both Achilles and Odysseus get an epic poem based on their actions and mode of death (even though those deaths do not occur in said poems),and while Agamemnon did get a play or two it was certainly not anything its audience would envy.
3857890800	Obradovao sam se kada sam video da je Karpos ponovo štampao zaboravljeni devetnaestovekovni prevod „Odiseje” u prozi Panajota Papakostopulosa. Znao sam da takav prevod postoji, ali je bilo teško doći do njega jer, nakon što je Đurić prepevao ep u heksametre, izgubila se potreba za prevodom u prozi. „Odiseja” preobučena u prozu srpskog jezika 19. veka lepo zvuči. Negde između ritmične proze sa otmenim imperfektom Daničićevog prevoda „Starog zaveta” i poletnih, živorazgovornih prevoda Milovana i Stanke Glišić sa ruskog i francuskog. Panajatov prevod sigurno nije sadržinski najprecizniji, a formalno je daleko od onoga što ep jeste. A opet, „Odiseja” u formi „romana” nije ništa manje savršena nego u formi stiha. Posebno meni, kome bi „Odiseja” bila omiljena knjiga da ne postoji „Ilijada”.U kulturnoj svesti postoje dve „Odiseje”: jedna je o Odisejevim avanturima, druga je o domu ili, tačnije o domovima. U kulturi je prisutnija prva, ali sam ep peva više o drugome. I to ne mislim samo na to što je epsko težište na Odisejevom povratku u dom koji mu rasturaju prosci, već i na to što je, recimo, opisu gozbi i običaja na dvorovima Nestora i Menelaja u prvim pevanjima dato više prostora nego opisu susreta sa sirenama ili Scilom i Haridbom. Dok sam bio mlađi zanimljiviji su mi bila četiri retrospektivna avanturistička poglavlja, a sada su mi više legli opisi života u kućama Nestora, Meneleja, Alkinoja i na Itaci. Ne samo zato što na tim mestima Homerova poezija dostiže vrhove, već i zato što je predstavljeni svet i dalje simpatično domaćinski – dobro se jede i pije, oseća se širina zajednice, a plemstvo je i dalje tako dobro upoznato sa svakodnevnim delatnostima domaćinstva da se na staleške razlike pomalo i zaboravlja. Stoga kod Homera i kraljice i boginje uvek nešto pletu i tkaju, a vladari su vešti i u stočarskim i poljopivrednim poslovima. Ta domaća idila posebno dobija na vrednosti jer je krha, naposletku ugroženi dom jeste u središtu epa. Idila lako nestaje pritisnuta i natkriljena svetom olimpijskih bogova, koji su daleko strašniji od ovih nižih božanstava čudovišta razasutih po ostrvima - sa čudovištima barem znaš na čemu si, dok Olimpljani uglavnom ne znaju ni sami šta hoće, ali očekuju da ljudi znaju njihove želje.
202477370	"So Pallas spake, and breathed into his frame Strength irresistible." Why so powerful a narrative?- is it the mythological world? this tête-a-tête way of living between gods and men? ...the voyages?the longing for Home ...?UPDATEThis is sad.https://blogs.spectator.co.uk/2020/02...
498946865	This go around, it's Daniel Mendelsohn's translation (June 2025)I greatly enjoyed this latest translation of The Odyssey. Mendelsohn is a brilliant critic and essayist (IMO) and an experienced translator of both modern and ancient Greek, and it was a forgone conclusion that I put this on my TBR list when I saw it was coming out. In addition to the translation, the “Introduction” and “A Note on the Translation” are worth the price of admission alone.In the latter, Mendelsohn focuses on what he considers the chief weakness in Emily Wilson’s recent translation (which I’ve also read; and also enjoyed) where she limits herself to the original lineage of the Greek and to iambic pentameter. He argues that this doesn’t allow her to fully express the meaning and nuance of the ancient Greek. While he too sticks with the original lineage, he uses hexameters to give him the “space” he needs to convey what’s going on. The results can be interesting. Now I'm tackling Robert Fitzgerald's translation. (July 2019)Note that in what follows all book and line references are to the Fagles translation.In the classic Star Trek episode “Errand of Mercy” there is a scene toward the end that my readings of The Iliad and The Odyssey brought to mind and prompted the comment made in the Comments earlier, i.e., “the Klingons are ancient Greeks.” The Organians have revealed themselves to be super-evolved, incorporeal beings and have put a stop to the “insane war,” as Ayelborne calls it, the Klingons and the Federation have begun. Kirk begins a self-righteous (and hypocritical) rant that the Organians have no right to interfere with relations between the warring parties before Ayelborne stops him in mid-tirade with the observation that he is claiming the right to wage war on an interplanetary scale, slaughtering millions (if not billions, considering the technology). Kirk stops, pauses and says, “Well, no one wants war.” At which absurdity, Kor, the Klingon commander (played by John Colicos) gives Kirk a look of utter disbelief. Later Kor expresses his regret that he and Kirk will not have a chance to fight and ruefully comments, “It would have been glorious.”Here’s a link to the scene I’ve described on YouTube; note Kor’s look and how, later, he lovingly lingers on the word “glorious.”This sentiment the Klingons will still hold a century later as in this episode (forget the title) of DS9: It’s the end of the Dominion War, and Sisko, the Federation admiral (can’t remember his name) and General Martok are celebrating the defeat of the Dominion and the Cardassians. Martok makes a toast to the killing of their enemies but he’s nonplussed when the Federation officers only half-heartedly join in. How can you not celebrate the glorious slaughter just ended, he wonders?I bring up these examples because it occurred to me that the warrior ethos of the Achaeans would have suited the Klingons quite well. Both cultures value war – the proof of a man’s character is in his ability to fight well, capture prizes, and slay his enemies. Some Klingons are by nature Achillean, e.g., Kang; some are Odyssean, e.g., Koloth. But they all would have felt at home in Bronze Age Greece.Alas, none of this has much to do with this review of Robert Fagles’ translation of The Odyssey, it’s only something that struck me as I read and didn’t play a large role in how I responded to the story. Nevertheless, any chance to horn in a Star Trek reference is not to be missed (an observation I’ve made elsewhere).As to The Odyssey, a little background is in order. Several years ago, I mentioned in my review of the Audio CD of Gilgamesh that I had not read the great, foundational classics of the Western Canon: Gilgamesh, Beowulf, The Iliad, The Odyssey. I’m still avoiding The Aeneid, The Song of Roland and The Canterbury Tales, though I have a modern English version of the latter on my To Read shelf and I’ve contemplated getting Fagles’ translation of Virgil. For the most part, I’ve caught snippets of these works over the course of my academic life or I’ve watched their watered-down versions on TV or at the movies (if available). (view spoiler)[In celebration of finishing the book, I watched the 1955 Italian version (titled “Ulysses”) with Kirk Douglas and Sylvana Mangano (yowza!). It wasn’t bad. It followed the story more closely than I thought it would, though it glossed over the murder of the maids at the end, combined the characters of Circe and Calypso, and made Odysseus’ philandering a result of amnesia or, in the case of Circe, her resemblance to Penelope. (hide spoiler)] So I was surprised to find that, of the 24 books, only eight dealt with the adventures most Americans are familiar with – the cyclopes, Circe’s island, the Sirens, etc. The first four books don’t even concern Odysseus at all; they’re an account of Telemachus’ visits to Nestor and Menelaus to search out news of his father. Fully half of the poem (books 13-24) occurs after Odysseus returns to Ithaca and recounts his schemes to reveal his identity and take revenge on the suitors.Going into this review, I thought that I preferred The Iliad but now I’d have to say it’s a toss up. I’ve found that both speak eloquently to me but about different things.(1) Where The Iliad is a brilliant examination of the loathing and attraction we feel toward violence and the personal costs of war (see, for example, Chris Hedges’ War Is a Force that Gives Us Meaning or Ernst Jünger’s Storm of Steel for more contemporary perspectives), The Odyssey became a tale of a family recovering from war’s effects(2) and the importance of personal narrative.As to the first theme, there are three axial characters around which the story revolves. The most often forgotten is Telemachus, Penelope’s and Odysseus’ son, still in his swaddling clothes when Odysseus left but now a full grown:Telemachus’ story is of a young man trying to find out who he is. Consider that he’s been raised by an over-protective mother (1.409-14), old nurses and his father’s aging retainers. There’s a scene where Telemachus expresses doubts about his parentage to Athena (disguised as Mentes, a visitor to Odysseus’ house):And young Telemachus cautiously replied, / “I’ll try, my friend to give you a frank answer. / Mother has always told me I’m his son, it’s true, / but I am not so certain. Who, on his own, / has ever really known who gave him life? / Would to god I’d been the son of a happy man / whom old age overtook in the midst of his possessions! / Now, think of the most unlucky mortal ever born – / since you ask me, yes, they say I am his son (1.247-55).Telemachus isn’t expressing actual doubts as to who his father is. He’s looking at his life and what he’s accomplished and asking himself, “How can I claim to be Odysseus’ son when I allow these suitors to plunder his house?” So off he goes to see if he can discover news of his father, and in the process discovers himself:Enough. Don’t let me see more offenses in my house, / not from anyone! I’m alive to it all, now, / the good and the bad – the boy you knew is gone. (21.344-7)Even going so far as to defy his father’s orders about the straying maids(3):…they marched the women out of the great hall – between / the roundhouse and the courtyard’s strong stockade – / crammed them into a dead end, no way out from there, / and stern Telemachus gave the men their orders: / “No clean death for the likes of them, by god! / Not from me – they showered abuse on my head, / my mother’s too / You sluts – the suitors’ whores!” (22.484-90)The second axis is Odysseus:When I was young, I liked Odysseus’ tale, but was never much interested in Achilles’. Of course, I only knew the bowdlerized version: No murdered maids, no sacking of Ismarus, no consideration that Polyphemus had a credible grievance against Odysseus and his crew, no dwelling on just what Odysseus, Circe & Calypso got up to on their islands, to sully my innocent child’s mind. An older self, however, is more cognizant of the man’s complexity: He’s a rapist, a murderer, a liar and a philanderer (i.e., the quintessential Achaean hero); yet … he’s charming, intelligent, and (despite his wandering eye) devoted to wife, son and father.Book 5 begins with our hero’s wanton sacking and rape of Ciconian Ismarus, a little town on the Aegean’s north coast that hadn’t even been a Trojan ally but had the misfortune of lying along Odysseus’ homeward route:The wind drove me out of Ilium on to Ismarus, / the Cicones’ stronghold. There I sacked the city, / killed the men, but as for the wives and plunder, / that rich haul we dragged away from the place – / we shared it round so no one, not on my account, / would go deprived of his fair share of spoils (9.44-9)In Book 5 too, we find him mourning his plight:With that the powerful giant-killer sped away. / The queenly nymph sought out the great Odysseus – / the commands of Zeus still ringing in her ears – / and found him there on the headland, sitting, still, / weeping, his eyes never dry, his sweet life flowing away / with the tears he wept for his foiled journey home, / since the nymph no longer pleased (5.164-70)Yet not averse to enjoying the nymph’s embrace:Even as he spoke / the sun set and the darkness swept the earth. / And now, withdrawing into the cavern’s deep recesses , / long in each other’s arms they lost themselves in love (5.249-51)But, in the end and despite everything Poseidon and the other gods think to throw at him, Odysseus remains true to his wife, son and father:Sunny Ithaca is my home. Atop her stands our seamark, / Mount Neriton’s leafy ridges shimmering in the wind. / Around her a ring of islands circle side-by-side, / Dulichion, Same, wooded Zacynthus too, but mine / lies low and away, the farthest out to sea, / rearing into the western dusk / while the other face the east and breaking day. / Mine is a rugged land but good for raising sons – / and I myself, I know no sweeter sight on earth / than a man’s own native country….True, but time and again Odysseus turned his face / toward the radiant sun, anxious for it to set, / yearning now to be gone and home once more… / As a man aches for his evening meal when all day long / his brace of wine-dark oxen have dragged the bolted plowshare / down a fallow field – how welcome the setting sun to him, / the going home to supper, yes, though his knees buckle, / struggling home at last. So welcome now to Odysseus / the setting light of day, and he lost no time / as he pressed Phaeacia’s men who love their oars, / addressing his host, Alcinous, first and foremost (9.23-32 and 13.31-44)The more interesting character is Penelope, the third axis:Her gender makes it difficult to assert herself as an individual(4), but manage it she does in several scenes where she shows she’s equally charming, intelligent and devoted as her spouse, and a worthy companion for an Achaean king. Homer makes it believable that she would wait 20 years for Odysseus.Penelope is at her best in Book 19 when she interviews Odysseus, who has returned home disguised as an old beggar, interrogating him at length about his connection with her husband. I am of the school that prefers to believe Penelope recognizes Odysseus by the end and engineers the crisis of the archery contest in Book 21 to give him opportunity to smite the suitors (see 19.408-9 for the lines which strongly suggest so).Whether she recognizes him or not, Penelope exerts a measure of control over the situation throughout by keeping Odysseus guessing, asking him to interpret her dream about the geese (19.592-624), proposing the archery contest (19.643-81), cross-examining Eurycleia in Book 23, or facing each other at last and only relenting when Odysseus proves his identity with the story of their marriage bed:Living proof – / Penelope felt her knees go slack, her heart surrender, / recognizing the strong clear signs Odysseus offered. / She dissolved in tears, rushed to Odysseus, flung her arms / around his neck and kissed hi head and cried out, / “Odysseus – don’t flare up at me now, now you, / always the most understanding man alive! / The gods, it was the gods who sent us sorrow – / they grudged us both a life in each other’s arms / from the heady zest of youth to the stoop of old age….The more she spoke, the more a deep desire for tears / welled up inside his breast – / he wept as he held the wife / he loved, the soul of loyalty, in his arms at last. / Joy, warm as the joy that shipwrecked sailors feel / when they catch sight of land – Poseidon has struck / their well-rigged ship on the open sea with gale winds / and crushing walls of waves, and only a few escape, swimming, / struggling out of the frothing surf to reach the shore, their bodies crusted with salt but buoyed up with joy as they plant their feet on solid ground again, / spared a deadly fate. So joyous now to her the sight of her husband, vivid in her gaze, / that her white arms, embracing his neck would never for a moment let him go… (23.230-9, 259-272)The second theme I want to briefly touch upon is “personal narrative.” You are your story. If you lose control of it, you lose control of yourself. The Odyssey abounds in stories: There’s Helen’s spin on her time in Troy (4.243-98), Eumaeus’ biography of his youth (15.437-541), the suitor Amphimedon’s version of events in his interview with Agamemnon in the House of Death (24.106-225), or Penelope’s own tale of how she coped with Odysseus’ absence (pretty much all of Book 19).But the story-teller nonpareil is Odysseus – “the master of stories” (23.300). He spins no fewer than five versions of his homeward journey, beginning with the most fantastical in Book 8 – the one Homer knew his audiences would most like to hear: The perils of the Lotus Eaters, outwitting Polyphemus, the heartache of nearly reaching home on Aeolus’ winds, losing all but his flagship to the cannibal Laestrygonians, his yearlong dalliance with Circe, the Land of the Dead(5), the seven years’ imprisonment with Calypso, and finally finding himself washed up on the shore’s of Scheria, to be found by Nausicaa and brought to the Phaeacian court to tell his marvelous tale. (Succinctly recapped – though strategically edited – for Penelope and the readers in 23.354-87.) Elsewhere, Odysseus is a Cretan refugee (13.290-324, 14.219-407, 19.194-234, and at 24.339-52), and his sojourn considerably less god-fraught and magical.Which is true (or truer)? Do any of them have a measure of truth? Or is there yet an unspoken truth we’ll never know? (e.g., Odysseus spent 10 years a slave of the Cicones after they had defeated his men…hmmm?)Whatever the case, the truest line in the entire poem is – not surprisingly – Penelope’s:One moment he seemed…Odysseus, to the life – / the next, no, he was not the man she knew, / a huddled mass of rags was all she saw. (23.108-10)Whoever the man was, he was not the Odysseus that had left Ithaca 20 years before.Coda:In Stephen Greenblatt’s The Swerve, he writes about the fragility of knowledge. In the West, Homer was forgotten for nearly a millennium, and – in that sense – the Renaissance truly was a “rebirth” of knowledge, just as so much of what survives from our past is the result of accident. What we have are fossils, the ten percent that had the good fortune to be buried under the mudslide or caught in the flash flood and preserved. It’s mind numbing to consider how much we’ve lost.Which is all the more reason to rejoice that we can read such master works as The Odyssey and The Iliad, and so I strongly recommend that you don’t wait until you’re in your mid-40s to do so. NOTES: (1) In the Bernard Knox’s Introduction, he mentions that a major theme of the poem is the importance of guest rites and ensuring proper relationships among warriors but – let’s be honest – unless you’re an anthropologist or historian, who really cares about such things today? Which raises the question of why we should bother to read something recited/written by people three thousand years dead. It’s because you find in it something of import or interest that speaks to you. I didn’t find anything in The Odyssey that affected me on an emotional level but I did find an interesting story about a family struggling to survive and a study about how people present themselves. When I go back to read this again (and I will now that I know how good it is), I’m sure I’ll find something else.(2) See 8.585-96(3) Before you think Odysseus gets off the hook, he had ordered that they receive clean deaths – the maids were stilled doomed.(4) Even her son tries to keep her under wraps (21.390-9), and one can only imagine what she may have accomplished if Athena hadn’t been constantly putting her to sleep (ibid., and elsewhere).(5) Two things of note here, though not directly pertinent to this review, are the contrast with Agamemnon’s wife, Clytemnestra, and Penelope (11.457-518) (see Agamemnon’s final words: “the time for trusting women’s are gone forever!”) and the famous interview with Achilles, where he doesn’t claim to regret his choice but does lament that life – glorious or obscure – is better than being king of the dead (11.554-59).["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3354741539	I knew the plot points of The Odyssey long before I read it. I knew the legendary names, the serial perils, the island-hopping adventures and Odysseus's ever-dwindling crew. And I knew about the shocking climax; the slaughter of the suitors, the violent capstone for the tale that defined danger and adventure in the western tradition. I thought I knew this vaunted tale, but having finally read it, it turns out I barely knew the focus of the book at all. Because I always thought the sea adventures were the center stage; the prison of the cyclops cave, the deadly allure of the sirens, Circe and her transforming magic, the twin dooms of Scylla and Charybdis. I assumed the story was dominated by these memorable trials. But it isn't; I estimate that series of Mediterranean perils accounts for less than one-third of the text. Some of these episodes are so brief (like the sirens and Scylla/Charybdis) I suffered a double take wondering if I'd missed something. I'd also always assumed the slaughter of the suitors came as something of a shock; that the reader had little reason to expect such a violent finish. But that climax is heavily foreshadowed; Odysseus's loyal family and servants often say things like 'I wish Odysseus were here, he'd kill these jerks.' We spend far more time with Penelope, Telemachus and the greedy group exploiting them than I suspected; the primary setting is Odysseus's estate, not his ship. This proves that even the most influential stories still have the capacity to surprise; especially if you've put off reading them for so long because you assume you know the whole tale.
3624464794	some books need to be left in the past. this is one of these books💙
4155252208	After 10 years of fighting in the Trojan War it takes Odysseus 10 more years to return home to Ithaca to be reunited with his wife Penelope, son Telemachus, and father Laertes. It is the latter 10 years that are covered in this legendary story from the 9th Century BC. During Odysseus's time away, countless suitors have moved into his home all of them hoping to win the hand of Penelope in marriage. They feast and carouse consuming vast amounts of wine and meat. The causes of his delayed return home are the central part of the book, told in flashbacks, and include a consultation with the dead seer Teiresias in Hades, and interactions with The Sirens, Polyphemus the Cyclops, Circe, Calypso, Scylla, and Charybdis, plus the continued interventions of Poseidon. Luckily, Odysseus has clear-eyed Athene on his side and after many rosy-fingered dawns he eventually returns to sea-girt Ithaca across the wine-dark sea to gain vengeance not only on the suitors of his wife but their relations too. A lot of people perish in this book in many interesting ways Other famous figures make appearances such as Agamemnon, Achilles, Menelaus, Nestor, and Helen of Troy, but it's the persistence of Odysseus that shines through as he manages to return home against all the odds.
2091741947	If there’s one thing I learned from this, it’s that the gods are fickle bastards and if you meet one, there’s a 99% chance you’ll die
3788410520	3 stars "Take courage, my heart: you have been through worse than this. Be strong, saith my heart; I am a soldier; I have seen worse sights than this." At this point, I feel like I should just stop having preconceptions about what a classic will be about. I have read many this month where I expected one thing, but encountered another and found myself quite confused. This once again happened while reading The Odyssey, however, I still enjoyed what I read. This is the tale of Odysseus... but it is more than that, and the journey he goes through is not even half of the page count. Instead we start off by following his son, Telemachus, who searches for news of his father, and later his (and his father's) struggles in reclaiming his homeland from the wretched suitors... I wanted more of the journey.I was very intimidated by the prospect of reading a novel in verse, however I found that it wasn't at all as scary as I have thought it to be. Surprisingly, this classic was very approachable and I actually enjoyed myself, but if I have to read another "when Dawn, with her rose-red fingers, rose from the sea" or some such, I'll scream. My main qualm with reviewing this book is that I don't have a lot to say because I found it to be fine. There were moments that I really liked, but some that I really didn't like or just ended up bored. The entire voyage sequence was fantastic. The Circe encounter was hilarious because of Hermes's interference and the moments with Helios's sheep were so frustrating (but in the best way possible). The rest however, I just felt an overall happy feeling, but not much more. The segments in which I was bored were the ones when Nestor and his son give us recounts of The Iliad. If you average all this together, I guess this ends up in an overall 3 star rating, but gosh is it hard to give a book a rating when you feel so many emotions...Tl;Dr: don't have so many expectations for classics, because they probably aren't what I thought.*book completed as part of the January Classics challenge
3306987686	Θα ξαναγράψω εδώ αυτό που έγραψα και για την Ιλιάδα Αναθεώρηση ΟΛΩΝ αυτών που νόμιζα πως ήξερα επειδή νόμιζα πως στο σχολείο διδάχτηκα την ΟδύσσειαΥΓ Spoiler Alert 🚨 Αν νομίζετε πως στην Ιλιάδα και την Οδύσσεια συμπεριλαμβάνονται κάπου η Αχίλλειος πτέρνα , η τύχη του Πάρη , της Ανδρομάχης και του Αστυάνακτα και πολλά άλλα πλανάσθε πλάνην οικτράν
3833838139	Αντί κριτικής, κάποιες σκέψεις…Ο ώριμος αναγνώστης που θα καταλήξει εδώ πίσω, στη μυθική χώρα του Ομήρου, έχει διαβεί σύνορα πολλών εθνών, έχει σκορπίσει σπάταλα τον χρόνο του, έχει αναλωθεί σε απολαύσεις πνευματικές συχνά υποδεέστερες. Κι όμως τα βήματα τον οδηγούν τελικά εδώ, μακρύτερα από τις αρχικές προσδοκίες του, καθώς το ταξίδι του είχε ξεκάθαρη έναρξη, μα αόριστο τέλος.Ξεκινώντας, γνώριζε -η φήμη της μεγάλη- την ύπαρξη της λαμπρής ετούτης χώρας, της οποίας το αρχαίο κλέος ευωδίαζε στη μνήμη των ανθρώπων ανά τους αιώνες.Κι όμως, ο νέος αναγνώστης απέφευγε όσο μπορούσε -συνειδητά, ασυνείδητα- την προσέγγιση. Άλλες χώρες τον καλούσαν. Με πρωτεύουσες λαμπερές, στολισμένες με τη βεβαιότητα του συγκαιρινού, τη σιγουριά του εν ενεργεία, ευεπίφορες στην ορμή τού νεοφώτιστου. Πώς να αντισταθεί; Πώς να αρνηθεί τη γοητεία τους;«Καιρός παντί πράγματι», αναφέρει ο Εκκλησιαστής: οι χώρες διαδέχονται η μία την άλλη, απαστράπτουσες και φιλόξενες. Την ίδια στιγμή, ο ολοένα και πιο υποψιασμένος περιηγητής στον κόσμο της γνώσης, με απορία και έκπληξη αρχίζει να αναγνωρίζει κοινούς τόπους, επαναλαμβανόμενα μοτίβα. Το οικείο καθίσταται κουραστικό, το πνεύμα αναζητά το καινό πλην όμως ολοένα και πιο επιλεκτικά.Το επόμενο βήμα θα είναι καθοριστικό. Εμπρός ξανά σε μία ακόμα χώρα λαμπερή και, εν πολλοίς, γνωστή; Ή πίσω, στη ζώσα ανάμνηση της ομηρικής χώρας του νόστου, όπου λένε ότι όλα ξεκίνησαν μα κι εκεί καταλήγουν; Η αντίστροφη πορεία έχει ξεκινήσει και η Ιθάκη αναμένει τους τολμηρούς που την αναζητούν.Και τα βήματα οδηγούν αναπόφευκτα στη Βασιλεύουσα του πνεύματος. Οι πύλες ορθάνοιχτες, η χώρα τόσο οικεία, τόσο μεστή, τόσο προσιτή. Το έμπειρο πλέον μάτι του περιηγητή αναγνωρίζει εκεί όλα όσα απόλαυσε στις χώρες της νιότης του. Όλα εκείνα που έπρεπε να δει και να μάθει ώστε να είναι επιτέλους έτοιμος (ως θαρραλέος) γι’ αυτή τη χώρα, γι’ αυτή την πόλη, γι’ αυτούς τους δρόμους, γι’ αυτό το μεγαλείο.Όσα ο περιηγητής θεωρούσε, μέχρι πρότινος, εξέχοντα, λαμπερά και πρωτότυπα στα ταξίδια της πρώτης νιότης του, τα συναντά ξανά εδώ, αλλά για πρώτη φορά τα παρατηρεί, τα αφουγκράζεται, τα ψηλαφεί: λέξεις, χρώματα, αισθήσεις, οράματα…Κατανοεί επιτέλους πως ό,τι αλλού υπήρξε λειψό και παροδικό, εδώ υφίσταται πλήρες και ατέρμονο.Αγαλλιάται η καρδία, ευφραίνεται το πνεύμα. Ο νόστος ολοκληρώθηκε. Έχοντας πλέον φτάσει στην πηγή, ο περιηγητής σκύβει να ξεδιψάσει, μέλποντας τους στίχους εκείνους που εξέθρεψαν γενιές ταξιδιωτών πριν, τώρα, μετά -όσο υπάρχουν άνθρωποι: «Τον άντρα τον πολύτροπο πες μου, θεά, που χρόνια παράδερνε, σαν πάτησε της Τροίας τ’ άγιο κάστρο, κι ανθρώπων γνώρισε πολλών τους τόπους και τη γνώμη…»https://fotiskblog.home.blog/2021/02/...
2109375133	Like a bolt of lightning striking a tree, The Iliad of Homer set my cranium alight when its sheer incantatory power first washed over me. It's an astonishing work, brutal and violent, while at the same time deeply affecting, brimming with incisive insights into human nature. Odysseus and crew, having taken precautions to not be lured by the Sirens' song, sail past them. Homer's subsequent epic poem I was less enraptured by because of its lack of focus, even though it is unquestionable that it represents a high-water mark in the Western canon; its qualities as a narrative - and influence - can't be overstated. Similar to Odysseus, I was fervently hoping for a homecoming of some kind ( in my case back in the hands of the master poet ) but the return gave credence to the age-old adage that you truly never can come home again. That first, visceral contact spoiled me, proved to be much too potent for The Odyssey ever to be able to compete with. Odysseus reveals himself and deals with the suitors.Do I love it? No, but I coldly admire it from a distance, and as such hold it in great respect. More than likely I'll never get to a point of "intimacy" with it, in a manner of speaking.Expansive reviews of this and The Iliad of Homer will probably follow in the future, when I decide on re-reading them, probably in different translations from the Richmond Lattimore one (which I highly recommend, especially for the latter).
863878286	Talk about Classic! Read at school. Need to reread this.RTC.It’s public domain. You can find it HERE.----------------------------------------------- PERSONAL NOTE : [701] [541p] [Classics] [2.5] [Conditional Recommendable] ----------------------------------------------- Hablando de Clásicos! Lo leí para el colegio. Tengo que releerlo. RTC.Es dominio público, lo pueden encontrar ACA.----------------------------------------------- NOTA PERSONAL : [701] [541p] [Clásicos] [2.5] [Recomendable Condicional] -----------------------------------------------
7329685557	This was my second time reading The Odyssey, and wow. As someone already obsessed with Greek mythology, I found Emily Wilson's translation incredibly captivating and immersive. Her writing is vivid, clear, and brings so much life to this classic epic, making it easy to understand and connect with. It was deeply satisfying to see how she brings the story to life in a way that's both fresh and easy to follow.The intro was also a great addition—it provided historical and cultural context I hadn't fully considered before.
2429790882	Narra el viaje de vuelta de Troya a Ítaca de Odiseo y como su mujer Penélope y su hijo Telémaco durante el tiempo que estuvo fuera Odiseo tuvieron que aguantar a los pretendientes de Penélope. La parte de la mitología, los dioses, a lo que se enfrentó Odiseo para regresar a casa, el cíclope, el canto de las sirenas, como descendió a los infiernos, eso si me ha gustado, aunque a ratines la narración se me ha hecho, en algún momento determinado, pesada.
2472299821	percy jackson did it better
5257565170	Abuso, exilio y deliberación. Con estas tres palabras se podría explicar, en términos algo generales, el desarrollo de la “Odisea” tanto en lo referente con su trama como con las amplias posibilidades interpretativas de sus símbolos. La historia comienza con la preocupación de Telémaco, hijo de Ulises, por el abuso que los pretendientes de Penélope, su madre, acometen contra la riqueza de su hogar. Los tipejos pasan por ser los aristócratas de la región, por lo cual se arrogan el derecho de exigir a la esposa de Ulises que decida con quién contraerá nupcias pues se asume que el héroe de Ítaca ha muerto en su regreso de la guerra contra Troya. El joven se ve obligado a irse de su hogar, salir de su suelo, casi que exiliarse empujado por la angustia a la que la sociedad oprime a su madre, a la vez que consumen y agotan descaradamente su riqueza. Su decisión aspira a dar con información clara sobre el destino de su padre para así asumir lo que vendrá en su futuro en caso de que Ulises haya muerto.En un cambio de perspectiva en la trama, aparece Ulises narrando el destierro del que fue víctima, primero, por la envidia de sus compañeros que los alejó de la isla nada más a punto de llegar; y, segundo, por la divina (desmedida y despiadada) venganza de Poseidón. De aventura en aventura, Ulises logra llegar a su tierra y, al enterarse de los perversos planes de los abusivos pretendientes que han llegado incluso a perseguir a Telémaco para matarlo, delibera, reflexiona a la luz de la sabiduría de Atenea, acerca del modo de proceder para vengar la deshonra en la que los fatuos galanes han sumido a su familia.Así, el abuso del principio de hospitalidad por parte de los pretendientes, el obligado viaje de padre e hijo y la permanente referencia al juicio o deliberación a la que se entregaban los protagonistas, ya sea por una reflexión personal o escuchando las historias de otros, me deja inquietudes acerca de la función social del asilo. ¿Qué significa en nuestros días acoger a esos otros errabundos que vagan a costa de la estulticia de un sistema? Siento que habría de considerar a los desterrados, los expatriados, los inmigrantes, unos Ulises contemporáneos que demandan vigorizar nuestro sentido de la hospitalidad. A la larga, todos somos nietos o bisnietos de mujeres y hombres que abandonaron su tierra y se aventuraron por deseo o contra su voluntad, a hallar una vida digna.
4607502755	Célebre epopeya que es no sólo una lectura obligatoria para cualquier amante de la literatura sino un imprescindible elemento de la cultura clásica. Homero, poeta griego glorificado hasta nuestros días, nos legó en este caso la aventura sin precedentes del valeroso Ulises -también llamado Odiseo- tras la guerra de Troya en un intento de regreso a Ítaca, su tierra natal. La ira despertada en Poseidón y dirigida hacia nuestro protagonista lo lleva a extender y dificultar el viaje del héroe plagándolo de vicisitudes y encuentros con múltiples deidades o seres mitológicos. Éstos se erguirán como aliados o terribles elementos según la obra avanza.La odisea es, sin dudas, una historia interesante, brutal y rica en sucesos, acción y mitología. Funciona como gran exponente de la visión de los griegos acerca del mundo, el valor, la integridad y las deidades. Ofrece además astutos, intrigantes y valientes personajes tanto como otros poseedores de una abominable mezquindad. Su lenguaje lírico envuelve todos estos elementos con una rigurosidad exquisita que la hacen la pieza literaria crucial que es pero que también la vuelven un texto no necesariamente accesible por su abundancia de descripciones, repeticiones y su lenguaje extravagante. Si uno puede superar esta barrera o amoldarse a ella, la odisea es enormemente disfrutable, si no, puede resultar tediosa.
3949941470	Odysseus is such an asshole! So full of himself, a liar and a cheat, having affairs all over while his wife is expected to be faithful for 20 years. Then he straight up murders a bunch of people, including the poor maids who weren't loyal enough whatever that means. I'm starting to think his version of the story isn't even true... Is he the world's first unreliable narrator? Is there a modern version that re-tells this story from another point of view, oh I just discovered Margaret Atwood's "The Penelopiad" so I should read that...
2902137123	Il vantaggio di rileggere un classico? Poterne dire del più e del meno senza imbarcarsi in un commento- recensione grazie al senso del ridicolo, proporzionale agli anni che avanzano. In definitiva un racconto del rapporto sentimentale, con i suoi alti e bassi, tra il lettore e il capolavoro.Nella fattispecie tra me e lui, Odisseo – la parte per il tutto: l’Odissea– non ci sono stati mai alti, ma solo bassi fin dove arriva il ricordo.Il primo incontro? In terza elementare quando scambiavo il mito per storia. Lo scherzetto del cavallo ripieno di soldatacci invasori che bruciava un’intera città non mi andò giù. Non so dire se già parteggiavo per Ilo, come mi è capitato tutta la vita, o fu quella notizia a dare il via all'avversione per gli Achei o Danai che dir si voglia e per il loro furbastro re. Personaggio secondario nell'Iliade, un nulla di fronte al divino Achille o all'amatissimo Ettore, sul cui cadavere piansi lacrime vere in seconda media, mandando a memoria tutto il canto VI, quello delle porte Scee e di Astianatte che giocava con il suo cimiero. [Perché una bambina dovesse amare il poema guerriero e non quello avventuroso, un po' fru fru, non è tanto misterioso: Omero, o chi per lui, non si sognava né di parteggiare né di inneggiare alla violenza: cresciuta, nel secondo dopoguerra, con i racconti dei bombardamenti sui civili sfollati e dei soldatacci scorrazzanti in cerca di fräulein o segnorite, ero pacifista per imprinting. Come ho scoperto più tardi (molto più tardi, con Simon Weil), gli aedi, vedendo un mondo scomparire sotto i loro occhi (l’immaginaria età dell’oro?) sostituito da uno aggressivo e armato fino ai denti, condannavano la forza bruta o solo psicologica che rende gli uomini cose, incapaci a difendere la loro stessa vita. Intuivo già la verità: la condanna della guerra, dei soprusi e delle ingiustizie di cui non c’era riscatto escatologico].A tredici anni, invece, feci la conoscenza diretta di quello che viene chiamato il poema fondatore della letteratura moderna. Un solo personaggio, Odisseo il cui stesso nome è sospeso tra il nulla* e l’Odioso** ( significato per cui propendo). Lo studiai pedissequamente verso per verso, libro per libro, assecondando i gusti della prof., una liberale di destra che non poteva vedere che di buon occhio quel personaggio tutto teso all'autoaffermazione, anche a costo di correre rischi inutili e soprattutto, penso col senno del poi, non approvare la sana vendetta contro chi gli aveva violato la proprietà privata (i decreti sicurezza stanno sanando il vulnus riportandoci ai bei tempi delle sane stragi dei Proci usurpatori). [Fu quello l’anno, con quello della maturità, in cui assaporai l’ebrezza del primo della classe: in effetti una esperienza castrante che in nome del podio ti fa rinunciare a un sano giudizio critico, cosato da un liberatorio mavaffa…al libro e a chi lo scrisse].Lo incocciai di nuovo alla seconda liceo, direttamente in greco, sui cui versi si consumavano interi pomeriggi domenicali fino alla scoperta del mai ringraziato abbastanza Bignamino che, però, mi causò una espulsione e una nota con relativo sei in condotta. Parigi va bene una messa.Ed eccoci all’oggi. Avevo il conto in sospeso: era la sensibilità preormonale di una bambina a farmelo antipatico o veramente quella di Odisseo, saggio e assetato di conoscenza a detta di tutti, è fama immeritata e nonostante le cosce muscolose che, secondo lo stesso Omero, erano irresistibili per le donne? Certo sono partita col piede sbagliato, nel senso che il ritmo scandito dalla mia lettura era sul metro ironico, e non c’è stato verso di prendere Odisseo sul serio: provare un attimo di simpatia per lo sciupafemmine, il malaccorto, il furbastro, il calcolatore, l’anaffettivo eroe mi è stato impossibile. Sapendo come andava a finire non ho potuto sperare in un finale che rendesse giustizia alle sue innumerevoli vittime. L’ho letto come “Il conte di Montecristo”, mille e cento e più pagine divertentissime ma tutte finalizzate alla vendetta, tremenda vendetta, dove lo spessore psicologico ( per dire una banalità, ma serve a spiegarmi) era perso come l’ago nel pagliaio. Ecco la novità: mi sono divertita un mondo a leggerlo perché non ho più la lettura moralistica, nel senso di corrispondenza del testo ai miei mores personali: ormai sono pronta ad apprezzare anche il demonio se l’autore è capace di fartelo apprezzare nelle sue diavolerie. Mi sono liberata, anche, dal mito di Penelope come donna saggia, irreprensibile, insomma moglie auto-castrata: il suo scendere flessuosa, “donna bellissima” nel salone dove bivaccavano i Proci, il suo appoggiarsi mollemente alla colonna coprendo col velo il volto lasciando liberi gli occhi ammiccanti, la dicono lunga sui suoi veri desideri e comunque, per me Penelope è sempre stata la Marchesini per tutta l’abbastanza lunga rilettura (grazie alla Calzecchi Onesti, godibilissima anche se letterale o quasi). Chissà, Anna, che facce avrebbe fatto nel rendere la meraviglia e il disgusto a sentire l’ultima “boutade” del marito appena ritrovato: “guarda, bellezza, che Tiresia mi ha predetto che non ho il tempo di arrivare e ricollaudare il letto con te che partirò: mi attendono altri mondi, e sicuramente altre femmine infoiate, e una dolce morte in mare. Sembra che non sia nato per “i legami terrestri”. Si sa, l’uomo è cacciatore, pescatore, scalatore, aviatore, astronauta (senza rima) e adorabile mascalzone… E “mischiniedde” le tre donne buggerate dal coscione agli androgeni: Calipso, Circe e Nausica. Meno male che i tempi non erano maturi per i suicidi come quello di Didone per Enea il mollaccione, altrimenti avremmo avuto tre libri in più di esequie. E poi, quanto mangiavano…tre banchetti al giorno a base di maiali, vitelli e pecore squartati, cotti e mangiati sul posto, con una predilezione per le stigghiola (interiora dalle mie parti). Il tutto annaffiato da trinchetti con vinello d’annata da lasciarli su di giri per tutto il santo giorno. Uno schiaffo alla povertà e alla fame che a quei tempi doveva essere stata endemica. In ultimo, ma non ultimo, la carneficina dei Proci, il prototipo di tutte le carneficine di là da venire: un’orgia tra sangue e fango con annesso l’eccitato entusiasmo della vecchia nutrice, tanto fuori posto che lo stesso macellaio Odisseo la rimprovera (diciamo che i buoni sentimenti, quelli cristiani del perdono sempre inevasi, erano di là da venire come riconoscono La Weill e la Arendt, studiosissime del fenomeno Omero). Consigliatissimo per gli amanti dell’avventura e gli stanziali sedentari.* “Odisseo infatti non è neppure un nome, solo un pronome personale indefinito, un Nessuno, Oudeis, una non entità che fluttua nello spazio pronominale come un’anima in attesa della prossima reincarnazione” Giuseppe Martella, da Nazione Indiana.** Dal greco odyssomai, odiare, libro XIX.
2252425952	I first read The Odyssey when I was a freshman in high school. I think it might actually have been the very first assigned reading that year, and I remember being excited for it, and liking the story, but having suuuuuch a hard time getting through it, because the translation I was reading was so dense. Looking back (and now having read this translation) I don't actually think I liked it as much as I thought I did, and I have some definite opinions about the Greeks being huge jerks.Mostly that they are huge jerks! I do NOT remember Odysseus and his crew being such brainless killers. Everywhere they go, they slaughter people, most of the time for no reason. They just raid a village (pillaging, raping, etc.) on their way home, just because they can. And the narrative clearly wants us to think this is normal and good. That really threw me.The best thing about this particular edition is that Wilson wrote it so accessibly. There is an incredibly interesting foreword and section with translator's notes where she talks about the history and the context of the poem that you really shouldn't skip, and where she talks about why she chose to translate it in such accessible language, when most translators give it an intentionally elevated style to mimic the supposedly ancient feel. Wilson rightly points out that this is nonsense, because this poem comes directly from the oral tradition, where by necessity it was accessible, repetitive, and most often in plain language of the day. One of the aims of her translation was to try and mimic as closely as possible the style to recreate the experience for modern readers without any unnecessary constructed barriers.I also did not remember that the parts that most people associate with The Odyssey (Circe, the Cyclops, Scylla and Charybdis) make up only about 25% of the book. Mostly it is Odysseus telling his story in somebody else's halls, then going home halfway through and pretending to be a dirty beggar there, and listening to other people's stories, before murdering all of his wife's suitors without remorse.I probably wouldn't have picked this up without ElCicco's lovely review. She does a much better job of talking about it than I do, so I recommend clicking and reading if you would like something more comprehensive.I would rate the actual poem three stars. The fourth star is entirely for this edition, which I thoroughly enjoyed.
