3905904499	★★☆☆☆ 2/5 although the writing is beautiful, i would be lying if i said i had any idea what the hell was going on
3903459822	↠ 3.5 starsAuthor Linsey Miller blends Beauty and the Beast with Wicked Saints in this dark fantasy standalone that packs quite the punch. Lorena has always known what her life would hold and has never thought to expect anything different than what was given. Keeper of a rare power, one that combines the powers of both nobel and vilewrought, she has lived her life with a target on her back. When the elusive crown prince Alistair cuts her a deal in exchange for the freedom of her betrothed, Lore is taken away from the world she knows in service of a terrible plan that will have deadly repercussions if achieved. Sacrifice is something she knows all too well though, and as she is led deeper into the complicated maze of secrets, divided loyalties come to a head and Lorena must decide which power she will ultimately serve – a flawed authority or herself.What We Devour is a book that was made to be just that, devoured. In the perfect blend of magic and darkness, Miller creates a world riddled with blood, it’s characters at the mercy of capitalism, and a clash of powers they find themselves subject to. Right off the bat, this doesn't shy away from its tribute to Beauty and the Beast and elements similar to Emily Duncan’s Wicked Saints trilogy. Having not enjoyed the latter, I was rather surprised by how attention-grabbing the material was. With hidden doors and an eclectic group of characters I was more than intrigued prior to starting this, but the fact that I enjoyed it far more than I initially thought is worth noting. This is a book that is bloody and empowering, or perhaps both of those two things combined; and the protagonists are all likable, even if they do tend to make some choice decisions from time to time. Where this fell short for me particularly though, was in the aftermath of its strong beginning. Past that, the plot became a bit too convoluted and heavy, feeling as if with each passing page I was wading through quicksand. This could partly be attributed to the content heavy world building that never seemed to reach a certain stopping point. You know the first hundred or so pages into a fantasy book where you never really grasp what’s going on, well that was essentially the last two thirds of the book for me. There was just far too much going on and it felt like the author had expected you to keep pace with everything, when in reality you had been left behind in the dust. While this has so many worthy aspects like ace protagonists, dark fantasy elements, and an interesting cast of characters, I think plot wise there was a lot left to be desired. That is not to say this won't be a hit for many readers, but it may not be everything it was let out to originally be.Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing this arc in exchange for an honest reviewTrigger warnings: blood, violence, gore, death, murder, attempted murder, grief, human sacrifice, self-harm, abuse
4139680844	Semi rant-review coming up shortly, so be prepared.Intended audience: YAPacing: slow Content warnings: self harm, death of a parent, murder*ARC received in exchange for honest review
3353507022	I loved this SO MUCH!!!Cunning & strategic ace protagonist, a horrifically fascinating magic system, and full of cannibalistic vibes, the excellent writing and layered worldbuilding made this a whole experience to read and so, so intriguing from the very first page onwards.Read this review and more on the blog!Content warnings include: violence, gore, death, magic system based on self-harm and harming others, mistreatment of workers, classism, aphobic microaggressions, mass murder; Mentions of: cannibalism, burning.What We Devour was breathtaking from the very first page. I loved how the worldbuilding was done. Every page was a joy to read, every sentence a puzzle piece that added more nuance, more detail, and more meaning, thus slowly expanding the setting, painting a picture that grew bigger and more vivid as the book progressed. It made reading super engaging and a ton of fun, and I was thoroughly fascinated by pretty much everything it.The cannibalism theme is present throughout the entire book, and I especially loved the lyrical taglines/poems/subtitles that headed the two parts of the book: If you can’t tame your demons, set them free / If they love you, they’ll come back. and Mouth like night / Teeth like stars. Both are beautiful in their own right, in how they roll off the tongue, but they are also relevant to plot and characters.Speaking of characters, I adored Lorena, the protagonist. She’s cunning but also kind, quick-thinking and not afraid to make bold decisions, which had me, who is forever undecided, cheering on her all the time. I also loved that she was unapologetically asexual, and how that noticeably affected her behaviour – how she hid parts of herself because of the expectations an ever-sexual society ascribes to certain actions. I found that super relatable, and I just love seeing a visibly and noticably asexual character be front and center in a fantasy novel.The side characters were great too. Alistair, the Vile crown prince, was an intriguing character in so many ways, and I especially liked reading about his relationship with Lorena. They grow so close and familiar, yet are so different and never manage to get rid of the last barriers between them, which ended up being a complex give-and-take, and a refreshing difference to the leading-male and leading-female character dynamics seen in most YA (fantasy, but also other) books.I also enjoyed the colleagues Lorena ended up working with, especially Basil, who is nonbinary. Lorena’s friend Mack was great too. Julian, her betrothed and best friend, played a very different role than expected, but I found that a very interesting and intriguing choice.The plot was great as well. There was an almost dystopian vibe, especially in combination with the magic system and history of the world. I don’t want to get into too much detail as part of the book’s charm for me was the layers of the story slowly unfolding itself within the atmosphere the excellent writing creates. Same goes for the magic.What I can say, however, is that I loved that it didn’t shy away from gore-y stuff (none of Linsey Miller’s books do), and the cannibalistic influence that the title of the book already implies remains a common theme the entire time.Overall, What We Devour is a stunning standalone fantasy novel. It scores through its characters, plot, atmosphere, worldbuilding and more, and I cannot wait to hold a physical copy of it in my hands. I adore this book, in particular that it adds great ace representation to YA genre fiction. I received an ARC and reviewed honestly and voluntarily.
3902043293	I’ve should have a lot to say on this one and I wanted to love it, but I just didn’t. The plot was (maybe) too complex, politics were hard to understand, magic system was poorly explained, and characters were flat. However, overall it's an an amazing idea and concept!! What We Devour just didn’t execute the way I needed it to. Maybe another round of editing, some beta readers to give feedback on confusing plot, and some time spent really giving life and personality to the characters. I know Linsey Miller can make great characters as I’ve read another book of hers I really enjoyed. This one just felt a bit too rushed to publication and less complete. So sad because the moral crisis here is fascinating. So many great political, social and moral comments to examine; if you can get through all the pitfalls. Please note: I received an eARC of this book from the publisher via NetGalley. This is an honest and unbiased review.
3840671520	I mean... that was something. Honestly, this has to be one of the most confusing books I've ever read and had me tempted to DNF multiple times despite being a seasoned fantasy reader. I constantly had to go back and re-read sections to try and make sense of it all. So many aspects of What We Devour were somehow convoluted yet vague which had me feeling confused right from the beginning and that sentiment never left me throughout.The worst offender was by far the worldbuilding and magic system. It felt as though something was lost in translation from concept to finished book because it was so convoluted for no reason. The Vile, the Noble, wrights, wroughts, prayers, sigils, contracts, Noble cursed, vilewrought, vilewright, noblewrought, noblewright, dualwright, dualwrought, and a whole other pantheon of Gods. It was a never-ending whirlwind and just kept being added to throughout the book despite it being a standalone coming in at around 330 pages. I swear I spent 95% of my brainpower during this reading experience trying to get all of those terms sorted out in my head along with additional new information being tacked on which made it impossible to focus on the plot or characters.I don't have much else to say about this book because the narrative and characters/character motivations were so muddled amongst the lore and repetitive magic system explanations. For example, I could've sworn in Chapter 6 Carlow was described as having the red eyes of someone cursed by a Vile (since red is their symbolic colour), making them immortal. Then it's mentioned later that she's a noblewrought? Wouldn't she be a vilewrought if she were cursed by a Vile and has red eyes? I don't get it. This kind of thing is why it almost feels like What We Devour was a rough draft that was turned in. There were so many gaps in the plot and character work that seem like they should've been fleshed out more but just weren't. The only character that really stood out was Lorena because she was the main character but it's mainly because she couldn't go one chapter without going off on a "eat the rich" rant. Like girl! We get it, we know! No need to beat people over the head with this theme constantly.Also, (view spoiler)[ what was up with Lorena murdering Creek? I'm still so confused by this plot point. All of sudden his "curse" (don't ask me what that was all about either I have no idea) was lifted after making a blue rose then Lorena thinks to herself that he's the one that needs to die, and kills him a couple of pages later in front of everyone. Like no reason is given, she just kills him. I think it's because she wanted to use his death as a sacrifice but she herself knows that sacrifices to vilewrights aren't always equal to the vilewroughts request and doesn't even know if it'll work but murders him anyway??? Not that any of this is explained either, it's just vaguely implied. Someone make it make sense... (hide spoiler)]Needless to say, I didn't enjoy What We Devour and I'm not even entirely sure I understood what I read. While I do think this book will find the right audience, it's not one I'd ever find myself recommending to other readers because of how convoluted it is for a standalone.
4065874917	You can also read my review here: https://devouringbooks2017.wordpress....Review: 4 Stars`What We Devour is a really dark fantasy that explores themes of sacrifice and morality. When I first saw this book I knew I wanted a copy. I love fantasy books with darker themes and the blurb just sounded really intriguing. I definitely got some Beauty and the Beast vibes, and I read that the author originally intended this book as a retelling, but it wound up changing a lot throughout the writing process. So while it’s not technically a retelling, you can see the Beauty and the Beast influences.I was a little nervous starting this book because I had read that the pacing was slow, but I felt like the book took off pretty quickly and that the pacing was pretty consistent. I wouldn’t say that this is an action packed story, but it was easy to sink into and the writing was compelling. The writing itself was pretty incredible at times. There were some really raw moments and it was filled with brutal and vivid imagery. I wound up reading this a lot faster than I expected to.This is a pretty dark book and I highly recommend that you check the trigger warnings, especially if you struggle with self harm. What We Devour has a really fascinating magic system based on sacrifice. There are Noblewrought, people who can create when they sacrifice something, and Vilewrought, people who can destroy when they make a sacrifice. Since the magic system is based on sacrifice the book really explores the theme. Lorena is a dualwrought, meaning she can both create and destroy and she is a really great main character to follow. She is incredibly loyal and she was willing to sacrifice everything for those that she loved. The sacrifices can be physical, like a blood sacrifice, or mental, like memories. What We Devour explored self sacrifice and what lengths people are willing to go to for those that they love and the greater good.This book was filled to the brim with morally grey characters and also explored themes of morality. Many characters, including Lorena, do horrible things, and while they were all morally grey, I could agree with Lorena’s choices because she did horrible things for good reasons. It really got me thinking if the difference between good and evil was the motives behind people’s choices. I’m a sucker for morally grey characters so I really loved the darker sides to the characters. Carlow could be really brutal and at times I felt like the Heir, Allister, was a psychopath. It felt like everyone was manipulating each other and they all had their own reasons and motives. I couldn’t trust any of the characters because they were all out for themselves and were willing to betray each other or stab each other in the back.While I really loved all of the characters, my biggest problem with this book was the character development. I didn’t feel connected to any of the characters and felt like the characters and the story itself lacked emotion. There was a character who died and I felt like no one actually grieved for him. While the writing was great and there were some really powerful moments, I feel like this book could have been so much better if I was emotionally invested in the characters. It was really a shame because I loved the rest of the book and the poor character development made this otherwise really great book really struggle at times.While I do have some mixed feelings about this book I would still recommend it. The plot, pacing and writing were all really great and made for a quick dark read. I absolutely loved the magic system, but do wish we got a bit more world building. By the way the book ended I’m not sure if this is a standalone or if there will be a sequel. It feels like it could continue, but also felt wrapped up pretty well. I will definitely be reading more from Linsey Miller. If there winds up being a sequel I will pick it up, but I’m really interested in her Mask of Shadows series.
3963598856	ARC provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.Linsey Miller weaves a dark and intricate stand-alone fantasy about a girl that must tether herself to a violent ruler in order to save her world that is on the brink of collapse. The atmosphere of this book is very dark and haunting, and Miller's prose transported you to this eerie world. Lorena, our main character, is ace and there are some great discussions about her sexuality woven throughout the narrative. The magic system, drawing from the "wrights" of the two species of Gods, the Noble and the Vile, was intricate and interesting, but I sometimes found myself getting lost in the details of the exact ways in which the magic worked. Not fully understanding why the magic worked the way it did pulled me out of the story a bit. This book came to a heart pounding conclusion and was definitely a dark and gothic fantasy.
4181225823	Идея и мироустройство хороши. Атмосфера хороша.Но немного сложно, плюс под конец автор сюжетно свалила все в кучу и наворотила столько всего, что я аж устала. Начало и середина были очень очень хороши, а конец очень очень плох.
4172055222	I'm so sad that I didn't like this more. And the worst part is, it's not an "I'm on the fence read," it's a "yeah, definitely didn't enjoy this despite the smattering of redeeming elements." I hate delving out 2-star ratings, but it feels wrong to rank it 3-stars when I actually tend to enjoy 3-star reads, even if I find them lacking.What We Devour is a dark fantasy where the wrought are people who have either destructive (vile) or constructive (noble) magic. Lore, a working class girl who has both, is tied to the prince of the land who hopes to prevent the Vile (the source of the vilewrought) from returning to the land and killing everyone. But Lore has her own vision for the future, and she's willing to do anything to save as many innocent lives as possible.Great premise, by the way. And the magic system is this really cool give-and-take sort of thing where you have to offer something of "equal" value in order to do what you want to do. And a cunning aspec main character? Themes of working class struggles? Yes please, yes please! Unfortunately, it just... didn't live up.I'm not sure how to describe the focus of What We Devour. I've seen some people call it "character-heavy," but it's hard to consider it such when the characters just don't... feel like much. We're told what traits they exhibit, but very little individuality is observable, especially in the supporting cast. And Lore's thought processes alternate between jumpy and her explicitly explaining narrative devices that the author is using, which really takes you out of what there is of the story.Because the story? Yeah, it's... A lot of the first half is just a repeat of three types of scenes - Lore in the labs, Lore with the Heir, and Lore with Julian. And they have a lot of the same conversations over and over and over again. The second half switches it up a little bit, but many of the plot points don't feel like they were led up to or, consequently, fully developed and explored. I really think it would have benefited What We Devour to spend more time with the second half plot points - it would have gone a long way toward reducing tediously repetitive scenes and fleshing out those moments that were superficially interesting.Unfortunately, this one really just fell flat for me. I wanted to love or even like it so badly, but in the end, I have to admit that I really didn't enjoy myself.
3903571500	"What number of survivors makes the number of dead worth it?"TW: self-harm, magic, murder, pain, violence, classism & betrayal.Thank you, Sourcebooks Fire & NetGalley, for allowing me to read and review this book! All opinions are my own!!I don't know if I wasn't in the mood/ didn't vibe with this much, but I expected to love this a lot more. I liked it, but I didn't love it.What we devour has a vibe similar to the beginning of shadow and bone; the heroine holds great power, and a dark, powerful man comes and offers/forces her to help him reach a goal. However, this world is still reeling from being ruled by two god-like beings that they overthrew at a price that is becoming increasingly difficult to pay. This story really plays at the idea of what monsters we need to make ourselves into for the greater good and how some monsters will still see themselves as good people.Pros: We had some lgbtq+ representation; nonbinary/genderfluid, the main character I suspect is ace, and a bisexual/pansexual main love interest. The idea of the story has a lot of potentials, and I liked how the magic system worked in this world -magic balance is always a good trope in my eyes.Cons: The story's pacing felt slow, and honestly, I saw a lot of telling and not showing. The urgency of the plot failed to hold me, and the allure of the characters failed too. I didn't feel for any of the characters, so I didn't really feel upset when any of them died, or it seemed like they were going to, any exploration of feelings and love I didn't really care too much about either.
4091882754	*Thank you, Netgalley, for the e-ARC in exchange for an honest review*The worldbuilding and complex magic system was difficult to follow at first, as we enter the story in the middle of Lorena's standard work day gone wrong and pick up the pieces of information about the environment as the story progresses and I loved it. I prefer this method to pages of info-dumping in a book's introduction even if it was hard to follow at first. Lorena is such a strong-willed and clever protagonist. She's surrounded by men actively trying to manipulate her and she sees right through them all. She's a quiet kind of dangerous that was incredibly interesting to watch progress. Content warnings: Death, violence, abuse, murder + mass murder, human/blood sacrificesHer relationship with the magical beings that live inside her, the remnants of the old gods of her world, was unique even in her book's universe. Her choice to build relationships based on equality, empathy and mutual understandings is what made her the main character surrounded by the chaos. I'm left wanting even more of her even though the story's over, but not because I felt she was lacking in anything throughout the story. Lorena is complex with a strict moral code and watching her get thrown into a world of morally grey was something I couldn't stop reading from start to finish.
3916945379	Thanks to the publisher for providing an eARC of What We Devour in exchange for an honest review.I wanted to like this so, so, badly. The story is fantastic. If someone described it to me, I'm sure I would have fallen in love. But this is a big character heavy piece and the establishment of our MC, her relationships, and the progressions of those relationships happen so, so quickly that I was left bored and uninvested.I think it's important to mention that while I went into this hoping to enjoy it, I'm similarly not a Belle Revolte fan because of the narration and characterizations which I know a lot of people actually really enjoyed so if you were a fan of that one, maybe take this review with a grain of salt.
4043106499	Thank you NetGalley for this ARCThis started out strong but lost me near the midway part. It had SO much potential, and was a VERY obvious critique of capitalism... but the plot was SO convoluted. There was SO much going on and it was just too much. I liked the representation in the book, and honestly, the Heir was my favorite character. Also, for this being standalone, i think the ending fell flat. This would have been a great ending for a book 1 in a series but it left SO much open that I wasn't really feeling it.
4062231576	This was a real struggle for me to get through.Before I go into that though, I want to say the cover is awesome! That is what grabbed my attention right away. So whoever was in charge of that, great job! But for me, the cover does not at all match what goes on in the book...it is very disjointed. The description of the book was interesting, and the how unique the story was made me want to read this. I love how the book did not have a long exposition. It got right into the action which I loved...but sadly things went down for me from there.For me, the story became very disjointed. I often had to go back and read things because actions just didn't make sense. I got sick of rereading to the point where I just kept reading and if something didn't make sense, I just kept going. The protagonist also goes though major character changes to the point that by the end it isn't the same person at all. While usually I am more than okay with this, in this story it just looked like a new protagonist all together and there was no real connection made.I did find interesting that what I thought was going to be the climax of the story ended up happening in the middle of it. It really made me question where in the world things could go from there and I think the author did a great job with the actual climax. There were definitely things you didn't see coming, and that was great to read.The story could stay where it is at or continue and I think reader will be happy either way. If there is a sequel to this novel, I am not sure if I would read it. I am a reader that always has to read the sequel no matter what, but I don't know if it is something I really want to do. Do I want to know where things go from here, yes, but do I feel like I could be wasting my time...that has yet to be determined.Thank you Netgalley for the early access to this book!
3861759082	Huge thanks to Edelweiss for the e-arc!As an author myself, I understand the grueling hell you put yourself through to write a book. That being said, this won't be a review that trashes a book; it will be a critical review to why this book did not work for me. The opening chapter promises a fierce heroine with a secret (my favorite of all the heroines) and a unique world where magic users possess one or two of the ancient gods. Lorena possesses both and is something she wants hidden. But her gift is discovered when a cruel prince arrives to arrest the father of her best friend, so she makes a deal for the man's safety. But this deal includes Lorena working with the crown. The story falls into the plot of a popular YA fantasy book and the similarities-be it purposeful or not- are what quickly took away my attention. The complex world began to confuse me to the point where I had to read way back to see if I missed something. The prose slipped into something repetitive. Pair that with the convoluted plot, I really had a tough time. By the time the book ended, I truly didn't recognize the main character at all with the extreme changes she went through. I know there's a time for your character to get her arc, but it felt jarring.I think the author just had a lot to work with and did not know how to wrangle it all in. I get it, I really do. Points for the asexual character and other queer reps. Plus, I liked Lorena a lot because she recognized the toxicity of her relationships which is something we don't get in YA romances. Overall, I know a lot of people will enjoy this, but it wasn't for me.
3866173045	Talk about juuuust missing the mark. The characters. Lore always went on about how she knew herself, how her and the Prince understood each other but heck, as a reader I'd love some insight because all of it fell flat. I barely understood her or her motivations aside from the cookie cutter "I want to do good but i'm going about it in a morally grey kind of way". I felt the Prince was just kind of... there. A gear to turn the plot and not an actual character himself. I feel like I barely got to know him at all, he was just there to be the monster trope and nothing more even though from what we did see, he was just a sad, lonely boy. He was a single monster in a story chalk full of them, no more worse than the others.The plot. It all felt a little fast. There's fast paced and then theres just barrelling through things to get to the next thing. There was a whole lot of A to B to X to Y happening really fast with no real explanation as to why and it made me not care about a lot of the things going on. The magic system was pretty interesting but the writing style was in such a way that it took me way too long to understand it. You're really just thrown into it immediately and expected to understand what's going on, which irked me, and the confusion only grew. Overall, while I enjoyed it, it left a lot to be desired.
7038564915	I'll be honest, this is my first DNF in a while, and I'm a little gutted it was! The premise of this story and the characters has so much potential, but like other reviewers have said, despite trying, I was struggling to work out what was going on all the time. It really throws you into the deep end, and I found myself constantly flipping back pages to see if I'd missed something. I think with a bit more editing etc. this book could've been amazing, but as it stands, it's an absolute slog to get through.
3482287540	This book is deliciously dark and so sharply intelligent. A post-apocalyptic fantasy with one of THE coolest and most unique magic systems I've seen (I adore science-y magic systems and this one the epitome of that) and a cunning protagonist with the weight of a world on her shoulders. Highly recommend this for fans of dark fantasy.
3849656455	I've been wanting to read this since it was first released and I finally got around to reading it. The entire premise of this story was right up my alley and I was so excited to dive deep into this book. I really loved the ideas at the root of this story. The magic system based on sacrifice and self-harm and rooted in lore about banished gods intrigued me. I loved its clever construction and execution. It was utterly unique. Linsey Miller has a very lyrical writing style that is engaging and concise. I was drawn into the story easily. There were some parts of the story that were confusing in some places but overall I really enjoyed the author's writing. I adored the diversity in this book. It was a breath of fresh air. The female lead character in this book is asexual and I strongly believe that the male lead character fell under the asexual umbrella as well. However, that could have just been my interpretation of his interactions with the female lead. There is a side character that is gender fluid. There is bi/pan representation as well. I was just overjoyed to see so much diversity. I am on the fence about my feelings regarding the ending of the story. There is a part of me that feels the ending was fitting and fits well with the story but another part of me yearns for something different. Any more speculation on it would lead into spoiler territory so I'll leave it at that. Overall, this was a great dark fantasy with an intriguing premise and wonderfully diverse characters. If you are a fan of morally gray characters, this book surely fits the bill. Before jumping into this one you should check the author's content warnings because there are many different triggering things in this book. BLOG FACEBOOK INSTAGRAM GOODREADS TIKTOK TWITTER BOOKBUB AMAZON PINTEREST KO-FI⛔My bookshelves can sometimes be spoilers.
4087391642	Content warnings at end of reviewThis book is delightfully dark and twisted, with morally grey main characters and hardcore "I love you but I'm still going to kill you" vibes. Honestly I loved everything about this. I was immediately addicted to how dark the writing was and the complexity and uniqueness of the magic system. Let me just say, it took me A WHILE to figure out why sometimes it said wright and sometimes wrought, but once I figured it out it made way more sense and I was even more in love. The way Lorena uses her powers is incredible and I am completely in love with her. I also love Alistair! You wanna a Darkling-esque love interest but he actually has redeemable qualities? Miller's got you covered. Also because half of my brain is filled with memes, may I present:Looks like a cinnamon roll, but could kill you: LorenaLooks like they could kill you, but is actually a cinnamon roll: AlistairLooks like a cinnamon roll, is a cinnamon roll: BasilLooks like they could kill you, would kill you: Carlow.Kthxbai Content WarningsGraphic: Self harm, Blood, Murder, Child abuse, Child death, Death, Death of parent, and Suicide
3981030562	I was provided an ARC via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.I wanted to love this but it didn't work for me. I didn't get into the story, I was confused more often than not and I did not feel anything the mc was feeling. I didn't connecct with her at all and so it was hard for me to care.And yet, since I have read and loved other Linsey Miller books before, this will not keept me from reading more of her books. It just was a miss for me... Maybe I wasn't in the right mood for it. Probably just a me problem tbh...
4104918414	Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley for an eARC in exchange for an honest review Welcome to a world where you must offer up pain and suffering for your prayers to be answered, but be warned....if your Gods aren't pleased with your offering the price isn't just being ignored. Lorena has inherited her own set of Gods from her ancestors, giving her the power to ask for things if the price is right. Legend tells that the bloodlines with this ability ate the flesh of these Gods before banishing them from the lands of man. The only problem is, they've found a door. A way back into our world, and it is hungry. Will Lore be able to withstand the call drawing her to the door? And will she be able to stop it from opening and destroying everything she holds dear?Okay, I have alot to unpack here so I'll do my best not to make this review seem super jumpy and unfocused. The story presented in this novel is one we've all pretty much heard before, but many things boost it to make it stand apart from others. The magic system is surprisingly fresh, as well as the ability to bind those with said abilities to a house or person. It is completely possible to control someone(even punishing them for every lie they tell) if you offer the right sacrifices. Our heroine is well written and self seficient, even when she is taken far from home and asked to help solve a problem she has no insight into(a door of doom!). Her supporting cast actually takes center stage a good portion of the novel which was great to read. The romance was pretty mind numbing, however it was nice to feel like Lorena could really be a great representation of the asexual community. The pacing of this novel moved quickly, but it only propelled the story into one you couldn't put down. My big gripes are as follows: pompous queen who makes her life miserable (so over done!), Former flame who should have been extinguished, and a wide open ending. The last gripe could be because there may be more to come, but it just felt unfinished. For those reasons I am giving What We Devour four stars.Overall there are way more positives in this novel waiting to be unpacked than negatives. I recommend this for anyone who loved Ashlords/Bloodsworn and is 14+. Some body trauma and violence make this iffy for younger readers.
6146591544	Wow….wow….the only reason this book does not have 5 stars is something I will talk about later…but for now….wow! This book was amazing! The world Linsey Miller created was so dark, twisted and yet so beautiful! Her main characters were so odd and yet so perfect! She told a dark story with even darker magic and made it so light and happy yet the end brought me to tears! I was completely undone! Lorena was an amazing heroine, whose tail deserves to be told over and over again! She sacrificed so much to save so many! UGH!! Even dying her own desire for home! My only two qualms are as follows: I wish she did not make the characters age 18 years old or young adults. As I read through this book I felt like I was reading a book about full adults with the way she described their patterns of thinking, the way they had deep emotions and how she made them seem like they lived so much life and yet they where 18. It felt like a slight misstep. However I can see what she was trying to do. And the only other one is I wish she wrote more of this tale! There were parts of the book I wanted more of! More detail more depth of the Queen and her evil and deranged ways! I wanted more build with Alistair and his character! I could have read 1000 more pages of this book and it would have not been enough! Please add this to your yearly read! 4.1⭐️
4074032540	This was so difficult to get into thanks to muddy worldbuilding. I got the semi-feudal society, the Crown/Heir and Council. I didn't understand the difference really between the Noble and the Vile and the wrights and what they could or could not do. And those contracts! If Lorena could do things via "prayer" and trusting that her wrights wouldn't go overboard, why was she the only one to think that? And her work with the other wrought to keep the Vile Door closed made me wonder where the Noble Door was. There's a lot going on here that requires the reader to understand the world to keep up with the action and well, that wasn't me. I usually am pro-standalone but in this case, a duology with better worldbuilding would have worked.eARC provided by publisher via Edelweiss.
4568912160	I didn’t understand the ending 😞
3833111411	3.75 really. I'm not quite sure how I feel about this book. I didn't want to DNF it but at times it felt like it just kept going and going. I wasn't sure if I liked any of the characters save for Basil and Mack. But in the end I really did enjoy it. The premise of the story is unique and dark and kinda Gorey which I could definitely could appreciate. And the end makes leaves me wishing there was a book 2. 🖤📚📚📚📘
4172205846	One of my absolute faves of the year
4173722326	3.5 . Some parts were 4 and 5 stars.... I think this story would have benefited from being a duology instead of a standalone.
3895659709	*Spoiler free*I was intrigued by this book to some extent, but I wasn't 100% sure on it. I'm not quite sure why. I knew it was something I'd like to pick up eventually. But one of my friends was super, super excited about this book and we have very similar taste, so my mild excitement ramped up a lot. Plus, ancient demons descending upon the kingdom, a girl who does not know what to trust, and rebellion coming closer and closer all sounds like things that I would really, really enjoy! Trigger warnings: blood, gore, grief, self-harm based magic systemThis book, wow, so many wows. This book is weird and fascinating and so, so brilliant. It screams, and I still hear it ringing in my ears.How do I even begin. I shall begin on the core of this book. Showcasing the horrors of capitalism, and how it degrades humanity to it's very worse. It grinds the poor into next to nothing, leaving them desperate for whatever scrapes they can get. And it elevates the people who can afford safety and comfort. A question of morality, what sacrifice is enough, how the worth is measured. Can it even be measured, should it even be measured. A human life should be not be measured on it's worth or usefulness. A dark, terrifying core that shows itself starkly. It's bloody, and horrifying, and it gets ugly. It's painful and it doesn't relent. I am in awe in how this was crafted, in how it was sewn together, how it was woven into the story. It's messy, and I think that is what makes it so brilliant. Just, there were times where I had my jaw hanging open because what I was reading was just that good.This book spills a lot of blood. It's violent, but it's not used to shock value. The horrors are place just so, to really drive home the gut punch of what this book is trying to do. It's horrifying. This book rips open at the seams and tears at whatever is left. It's dark and a touch wild. And just, wow. I felt like I was looking into the abyss of morality and humanity as I read it.Moving on to characters! This book features an ace girl MC and her weirdo friends doing terrible things together. I ended up loving them all a whole lot more than I thought I was going to. Each of them are terrible and weird in their own way. Some have sharp edges that won't let anybody get close and others are completely adorable. Others hold secrets and others are just downright awful. They all serve their purpose. Just, another wow.There were times in this book where I felt like things felt a bit off, or that the book overall felt a bit messy. I thought the romance was a bit stilted and weird, for example. And while I do thing this book felt messy, I think that was made me end up enjoying it so much. I thought this book was going in a certain direction and BOY did it go in another one. This book knows what its doing. The things that I thought I didn't love, ended up slotting into place at the end. This book tears itself apart, because the world inside it is being teared apart. Lorena is being torn apart. They're trying to figure out how to heal. And if healing is even the best option.I fell completely in love with this book. I did not think I was going to, and I ended up loving it so much that I want to scream about it from the rooftops. It's dark and bloody and horrifying and terrifying and completely brilliant.
3800491280	I was given an advance reader’s copy by the publisher in an exchange for an honest review Fans of Linsey Miller’s past work and “eat the rich” themes will definitely not be disappointed by What We Devour! Do be warned this book is very dark, twisty, and bloody. Sacrifice is a recurring theme, explored in nearly every form I can think of.To list major things I liked: the main character is asexual, and the representation is very well done. There are smatterings of characters who are casually shown to use they/them pronouns. The supporting cast is complex and entertaining, forming an engaging and memorable team. The magic system is very interesting, I won’t say too much in the interest of writing a non-spoiler-y review, but I found it and the bureaucratic way it’s addressed by the universe’s political system to be very interesting, as well as reflective of real world issues. I’ve seen few things quite like it before.The political themes of this book in general are very timely, and Linsey Miller does not shy away from digging into the reality of living in (and attempting to improve) a world with no easy answers.
4037644089	Now, this is the type of book that screams potential, but once you get round to reading it, you're sorely disappointed. I expected so much more from this book and what I received, I didn't like.First of all, I adore the cover and the premise sounded like something I would really enjoy reading. I thought the idea of a dark fantasy revolving around secrets and royalty and strong female leads but this book was a confusing mess.Right so the world-building, or can I say - lack of it. I was so confused throughout this entire book on what was what, who was who and the differences between these vilewroughts and whatever the other one is called. I'm either thick as hell or something just didn't translate on paper as it easily did in Linsey's head. I was struggling with the magical elements and why everything was kept so secretive. I also didn't care for any of the characters. Yes, we did get a strong female lead but she was also kind of a follower too and I honestly felt she gave in too easily when challenges came up. I didn't care for the Prince either and his lack of a generic I hate the world personality.There were some major plot points I didn't enjoy but as this is a spoiler-free review, I'll just say that I shook my head. A lot.The writing was...alright. I honestly nearly DNF'ed this book so many times and if it wasn't for a review I'd have tossed my Kindle into the nearest bin and burnt the idea of this book from my head.This just wasn't for me at all.I received this book via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
3601765797	DNF at 30%Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for an advanced reader copy of this book in exchange for an honest review!This was tentatively on my most anticipated new releases list. I say tentatively because I reviewed Linsey Miller's debut novel a few years ago and wasn't particularly impressed, but I was willing to give them the benefit of the doubt. Authors improve the more they write, after all. Or... so I like to think. But oh boy. This was somehow worse! This was utterly incomprehensible. Every single time I sat down to read this book, I had to shake my head and reread passages, thinking I was just too tired to understand what trying to be expressed, or I'd missed something completely. But no, this is just written like a first draft, where the author hasn't quite got all the pieces figured out yet, but they just have to keep going just to get the story down, except instead of taking the time to rewrite, edit, and fill in the gaps, it was just... handed over to the publisher as is...? And they just... published it? That's the vibe I got from it, because none of it makes sense. Characters show up for no reason, all pretty indistinguishable from one another, and the apparent villain of this piece just strikes up casual conversations with the protagonist as if he's not busy openly oppressing her clan... Nothing is written like real human people would behave and there was absolutely no tone, atmosphere, or tension to speak of, so there was no incentive to engage in what was happening whatsoever. In a word, it was FLAT.
3834511375	I devoured this book! The beginning was a little bit slow, and I wasn't 100% certain about it, but when it gets going it REALLY gets going. I loved Lorena, the main character, her tricky way of manipulating the people around her was amazing to read about. She's also asexual! I also loved how much eat the rich energy this book is filled with. Overall an amazingly dark and delicious read. Thanks to Sourcebooks and netgalley for providing me with an arc of this book in exchange for an honest review!Follow me on my Blog, Twitter, and Instagram.
3867041553	2.5There was a lot going on in this book. With wonderfully dark fantasy elements and an engaging character cast, this felt so promising. But, on the flip, you know when you pick-up a fantasy book and the first few chapters plunge you into the world and there you are, spending time getting familiar with the particular mechanisms of the world and how things work? Yeah, that feeling never ended for me when I read this. With a slow pace, and information that just kept on coming, I think the plot left me with something to be desired.I'm so down to delve into books that sweep me away into their weird and wonderfully dark little worlds, but I must admit that this book felt bloated, maybe even convoluted, at times.
3931352035	thank you to Sourcebooks Fire for gifting me with this ARC!this is by no means a bad book, it was just not for me. i never fully understood the world and its magic system and so i spent most of the book trying to figure out what was going on instead of enjoying the story. i never felt too connected to any of the characters and i wasn't too invested in where the story was going. that being said, i really liked miller's writing style and i also loved seeing the ace rep in this book. i also appreciated the discussion on class and wealth disparity, but in the end, i just didn't love this one unfortunately.tw: self harm, acephobia
3930984473	DNF at 30%This book was extremely unrealistic and filled with tropes. I mean, seriously. It felt like a cheap Wicked Saints knockoff, except without the gorgeous horror atmosphere and beautiful worldbuilding. Really, how TSTL can the MC be? It sounds like someone took the premise and fantasy world of a silly, naive preteen girl but wrote it with the skill and marketing of an adult.
4028003580	~~I received an ARC from Sourcebooks Fire in exchange for an honest review~~I adored Miller’s Mask of Shadows & Belle Revolte, and was really looking forward to this book. Unfortunately What We Devour is far from what I would call a satisfying book.If you want a dark book that’s a character-heavy story, this could be the one for you. I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 because I enjoyed the characters so much.I liked Lorena Adler’s character and her development. Seeing her change from the kind and giving undertaker she was at the beginning to the Dualwrought at the end was one of the few things I truly enjoyed about this book. While she did change gradually, I felt her internal moral struggle could have been more obvious on the page at some points. Lorena is asexual and it’s a big part of her character. One character is very acephobic, but he is always shown as the one in the wrong in these moments, and it was awesome to see an ace character never doubting their identity or putting someone’s desires over their own boundaries.The characters all have their own sad or dark pasts, united by their contracts and their wroughts/wrights. I found them all interesting; though I wish the wroughts/wrights aside from Lorena and the prince had had more time to shine. My favourite relationship was Carlow and Creek’s. I desperately wanted to know more about them than what was given, hinted at, and implied throughout the book. Carlow’s curse made their potential romantic relationship something the reader both desired and dreaded. The abilities differed among the wroughts. They showcased them and the extent that they could take them to throughout the book, which provided a little bright spot here and there.I get the gist of what Miller was trying to accomplish with this book, but I think she put too much focus in some areas and not enough in others.The world-building was good in the beginning, but it continued throughout the book and it was never ‘light’ additions – it always made the world more complicated in a manner that made me have to rethink how everything fit together.This book had a very strong beginning but the plot became too convoluted immediately afterwards, leaving me extremely lost for the majority of it. I didn’t understand what was happening half the time. There were so many implications, but it was rare that it was clear what, exactly, was being implicated. They were either far too subtle, or not meant to be clear so the answers came as more of a shock later on. Regardless, it was a huge turn-off and I found it hard to pick this book back up every time I put it down.It also wasn’t clear at multiple points what the group’s next attempt at sealing the Door was going to entail, leaving myself as the reader confused about the group’s next phase of experimenting. Again, this could have been on purpose to garner more surprise. If so, it wasn’t the best decision in my opinion.What We Devour is a character-heavy story, but the relationships progressed too quickly, and with the time-jumps, a chunk of those progressions weren’t even on the page. There also aren’t a lot of actual repercussions that Lorena faces despite the severity of some of her actions. The fact that her plans almost always went off without a hitch or any deviation didn’t really help either. I wanted to see her thinking fast on her feet in a moment where the tiniest slipup would be the end.I love that Miller took time to show that Lorena knew the relationship she was in was toxic and she knew she deserved better after all she’d done and given to her partner and his family. She also knew what she was doing in her relationship with the prince. The difference between her ex-partner and her was that she knew what she was doing was cruel, and wrong, and made no attempt to convince herself otherwise. She put the lives of many over the lives of one. I love me a morally gray character.Another thing I enjoyed about this book was the continuation of Miller’s normalizing of LGBTQ+/queer identities and relationships. The struggles that come with identifying as queer (any of the individual labels, really) are brought up and the characters are (almost) always accepted, validated, and welcomed. As I mentioned before, What We Devour is the exception in this area.Despite my low rating of What We Devour, I’ll most likely be picking up Miller’s next book as I enjoyed her previous ones so much.Check out my blog!
3812335984	CW: gore, violence, acephobia (heroine is ace)This one left me feeling some type of way.On one hand, I appreciate that it's big on social commentary and complex character relationships and eerie cosmic horror element.On the other, the execution felt messy; I was deeply bored all throughout the first half but excited albeit rather confused in the second half. I am a sucker for villainous/morally grey heroines, and Lorena Adler certainly fits the mold. She's downright vicious without being evil, per se, and completely dedicated in her pursuit of justice. Watching her hurtle toward the climax of the story, making those terrible yet fascinating choices, was delightful. I also was rather invested in her relationship with Alistair; those two really are something with how they play off of each other, although I'm rather put out by how (view spoiler)[Alistair had to die at the end... Like man, you can take Julian but leave Alistair alive? Maybe?? (hide spoiler)] Still, there was a certain coldness in the rest of the novel that chilled the pace of the novel to a halt for the first half. The side characters were hard to get invested in, and seemed to exist as vehicles to further the themes without having ample humanity to make me care. There were also points of the magic system that seemed confusing, which bothered me as I struggled to remember the rules of what was at play. Noblewrights and Vilewrights were straightforward enough, but the science experiments and the curses were a bit much. I'm also not sure that the writing really resonated with me. I often had a hard time figuring who was speaking, or how the scene transitions worked. What helps to make up for the coldness would be the themes of anti-capitalism and a very "eat the rich" mentality that really resonates in a time when the wealth disparity has never been starker than when a deadly illness is at large. I really enjoyed the exploration of these themes, especially when you have various parties, some more "sympathetic" than others, that all default back to the same classist ideas that devalue human life. I rather liked how much this book asked you to question any of your preconceived notions of who is valuable to society. As an added treat, I do appreciate the heroine dunking on the acephobic bigots in her life. We love to see it.
4196328740	Lorena Adler is the undertaker of a small town named Felhollow, but more importantly she is hold the combined power of the Noble and the Vile inside her, banished gods with immense powers. As Lorena has kept it a secret for years, as Dualwroughts are the more rare of all the wroughts, she is forced to out her secret to protect her future father in law. So the crown-prince takes her to his castle, to work on keeping the world safe from the Vila, who each day come a bit closer to emerging in the world again. To save the world Lorena needs to survive in the harsch courts and finally embracing all she is and can be and growing turns out to be never without loss. Pro's:+ The idea behind this is actually really great and I thoroughly enjoyed about the Noble and the Vile and how they operated in the world and how they leave their mark on people currently. The idea od sacrificing to get what you want is kinda epic. + I liked that there was no actual happy ending in this book, it made for a nice chance of pace for once. Without getting in to much detail, the betrayals and death's are quite immense and there will be no real resolution in the end, but it does feel finished and complete. Con's:- I found this book very hard to get through, not sure why but I didn't find it very readable. Somehow the pacing always was a bit of and this is definitely was very political, which some people like, but not me really.Definitely very dark, with loads of death's and betrayals. I love the idea behind this story though, I just wished it was executed a bit better. However, the fact it took me so long to get through this, that I had to put it away multiple times to finally finish it says enough for me and therefore this is only a three-star read. For a standalone this is not bad and a lot happens in this and it is quite in-depth, but it wasn't for me.
3927696091	Okay, so. I just finished this book and???? That was not the ending I expected! I don't know how I feel about it 😭 I like it? But at the same time, it just feels harrowing and melancholic, and yet hopeful at the same time??? I don't think I can process much of my feelings and thoughts right now. So what did I like about the book? I absolutely love the magic system and the world-building. I'm a sucker for scifi/fantasy books with intricate world-building, so it's not a surprise that I loved the world and the magic here in What We Devour. I also liked the eeriness of it. I liked the writing style, which was both poetic and dark. I liked the characters, especially Lorena's character arc. It's not perfect or righteous, but instead we see someone change and do things, not just for their family and friends but for other people. I also absolutely loved the asexual rep in this book! The word wasn't mentioned here at all, but the way Lorena thought about it, explained it, and how people always judge and misunderstand her felt raw to me. My only issues with the book? I guess wanted more action? I wanted more of that dangerous/high stakes feel? But that's just my personal preference for this story. This was still very much entertaining and the plot twists did not disappoint me. Overall, this was a good read. A perfect choice this spooky season!CW: death, murder, death of a parent, sacrificial killings, blood, gore, violenceE-arc from NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review. This, of course, did not affect my overall opinion of the book. Find me elsewhere: Instagram | Twitter | Blog
3927893870	I received an e-arc of this from netgalley for an honest review. All thoughts and opinions are my own. Okay so let me start off by saying this was highly anticipated for me, as in I have preordered special editions of this before I'd even read the arc 😂 The reader is first introduced to Lorena, the main character. She is an undertaker in a small village, betrothed to her best friend Julian. Their village is attacked and Lorena is laying to rest a twelve year old boy who died in the attack when guards arrive looking for Willoughby Chase, her betroths father. It is revealed she has the power of both gods- the noble and the Vile. The heir to the Crown of Cynlira, Alistair Wyrslaine becomes intrigued about Lorena's power and accepts her deal to leave Willoughby alone until his trial date if she comes to the city of Mori with him. She agrees and our plot takes off from there. So my immediate thought of the Heir and Lorena was almost Darkling and Alina vibes. Very much a "you are a power I must possess" vibe. The plot ran so smoothly and was expectionally unique. I really enjoyed the plot of manipulation and courtly intrigue. The magic system in this was complex, as there is two types of magic, the vilewright and the noblewright. Each comes from a different god. It was all very unique and entertaining. I loved our main character Lorena AKA Lore. She was so smart, sneaky and an absolute badass. She was everything I want in a MC. She was able to play the political game, get what she wanted and was ruthless when she had to be. Nothing could stop her quest and I truly adored that aspect of her character. The ending left me wanting so much more!I definitely recommend picking this up if you are a dark ya lover in need of a fix!
4910736631	** spoiler alert ** I really wanted to like this book. There was so much potential. Several lines left me awed at Miller's writing skill. The magic system was a great concept. Diverse representation was flawlessly interwoven (most of the time).And... that's about all I can say about it. Miller strikes me as the type of writer who is excellent at narrative writing but is discouraged from that style since it isn't what tends to sell in this genre. The scraps of narrative writing in What We Devour allow her skill to shine. Unfortunately, those tasty scraps are buried under poorly executed plot.More often than not, this book left me confused. And for so many reasons. Overall, this was a great concept that devolved into a teenage masturbatory fantasy about eating the rich.*Spoilers Below!*Things that are still making me scratch my head:- Protag is an ace character and yet she's still in a love triangle. Whyyyyy (Love square...? Idk, her relationship with Mack isn't clear and Mack was def crushing on Basil later, but there were some Lore/Mack/Jules vibes in there.)- Lorena's voice is inconsistent. She randomly forces "y'all" into a couple of lines of dialogue. Sometimes she has dry, sharp sarcasm. Sometimes she goes on for paragraphs-long rants about how much the 1% sucks. Sometimes she sounds very childlike. At no point did I have a grasp of her voice. - Why and how did Lorena decide to kill Creek? Why was everyone seemingly okay with her ratting him out and killing him? I'm pretty sure if some chick I'd known for a whole month showed up and snitched on my buddy and then *stabbed him to death,* I would have AT LEAST needed some time to get over it. Carlow, Basil, and Alistair should have been WAY less blase about it.- Lorena vividly hallucinates what she believes to be a ghost for more than half the damn book and she never tells anyone about it. W H Y. - Was Creek's death at Lorena's hands part of Vines's "plan" all along? This is never explained. Also, how did Vines cure Carlow of her curse by ripping out her heart? Carlow's curse was only supposed to be lifted if she passed it on to someone she loved, at which point she herself would die. Yet she doesn't appear to pass it to anyone, and Vines revives her. I'm so confused. Similarly confused about why Vines says that Carlow's curse wasn't supposed to be transferable in the first place. So, uh... how did it BECOME transferable? How did Vines stop it altogether? There is so much here that reads as if the reader should be able to infer the answers, but this all comes in the last few pages of the entire book and explains *nothing.*- So Lorena has spent her whole life with her wrights and it isn't until 75% of the way through the book that she tries *communicating with them???* Not believable. Also weird that she never tries it again. And she never suggests that Alistair should try it. (Would that not be evidence of her seemingly important point about their wrights having wants and wills like people? I suppose it doesn't matter since that point also served absolutely no purpose.)- And speaking of completely pointless scenes, how about the one where Lorena literally ate a piece of the Vile? Girl ate a whole freaking demon finger and it's never relevant ever again? No one talks about it? Okay. Cool. The connections to the past re: humans eating the gods for power were, once again, totally meaningless.- Why does Lorena sacrificing the peerage matter to the Vile? She may have to live with some blood on her hands, but to her, they deserve to die. In the grand scheme of things, they are the reason the world is going to shit. Lorena talked so much about how no one else knows how to sacrifice, yet she herself tries to make a sacrifice that is really just a gift to the rest of the world -- and to herself. She should have known going in that this wasn't a sacrifice. Even Julian couldn't have been much of a sacrifice since she'd erased *all her happy memories of him* prior to his death. The only real sacrifice she made -- sort of -- was a guy she knew for less than 5 months whom she, by her own honest admission, did not even love. (Her half assed grief was just... ***what???*** Lorena after Alistair's death: "oh no! anyway......") So her deal with the Vile didn't exactly work as she intended. But she got a decade of a ceasefire out of it. A whole damn DECADE to prepare for another war against the Vile. I don't understand why the Vile even met her halfway on this deal. We are beaten over the head with the fact that sacrifices need to mean something, and Lorena sacrificed so very little.- The factory safety regulations. First of all, Lorena has more angst over her parent's wrongful death than Bruce Wayne. (Halfway through the book, I was rolling my eyes every time she started griping about her dead mom.) Second of all, she seems to have *no* grasp on how long it takes to institute new regulations on a wide scale. In the days (I think?) since she asked Alistair to approve laws for better working conditions, a fire starts in one of the factories and kills 18 people. Very tragic, of course. But then she blames Alistair for the fire...???? Because he didn't approve the safety laws the minute she asked??? He doesn't have a magic wand that will instantly improve the conditions across *all* the factories in Cynlira. He doesn't have the ability to inspect and hold accountable every factory owner. Over time, sure -- but not in the span of DAYS. Yet we're supposed to sympathize with Lorena and think Alistair is solely responsible for something that likely would have happened anyway even if he did as she asked.Overall thoughts:This would have been a compelling story if it kept its momentum from the first few chapters. It started off as a fresh fantasy thriller that quickly revealed it was actually about an angry teenager who spent 300 pages yelling "fuck capitalism." We're told over and over about the importance of sacrifices, which ultimately aren't very important at all. There's a near constant promise of magic and lore, but the actual mechanics of contracts, being bound, binders, the manifestation of wrights, etc. is all just glossed over.The majority of this book harps on the importance of throwing off the yoke of the upper echelon, but offers no real view of a future free from it. It is about as fleshed out as the concept of "eat the rich." Okay, sure -- but then what? What comes next? What happens when the meek finally inherit the earth? I suppose we'll never know.What We Devour was confusing and unsatisfying, but Miller has talent as a writer. I would be interested in reading another of her works with better execution.
3938054647	What We Devour is a standalone fantasy novel by Linsey Miller, that is full of life lessons about diversity, society and what we can do to and for each other. WWD is a dark novel that full of hope and love. But not the love and romance what you expect. Lorena, or Lore, as you friends call her, has spent her life being small and hiding in the shadows. In this world, you are mortal, vilewrought or noblewrought. Only one known person has both Vile and Noble, The Queen. Lore has been harboring a secret, a secret from her family, friends and village. When the Heir comes with a warrant for her fiance's father, her only family left. She reveals her secret and has to make a contract with him. But contracts in this world are more than legal, especially with The Heir....This book was truly a good read. There is excellent representation and tension between characters. Linsey does an amazing job creating characters that are both fundamentally flawed and at the same time so much themselves. This book also teaches lessons about the cost of capitalism, the cost of following family blindly and how being different can both be a blessing and a curse. THe most important lesson that I have taken away from this book is the cost of giving everything you have, blood and heart and putting everyone else above yourself. This book is so empowering. I wish there was more coming from this world. I will definitely be adding LInsey to my list of authors that i follow for new work. This book would be a great read for those who love dark stories like All the Murmuring Bones and for those who are looking for a empowering tale of overcoming obstacles and embracing who you are....
3997960823	Noblewrought who creates, vilewrought who destroy. This is the magic that lives in the Lorena's world. But she is a special one, she is a dualwrought: she can destroy and she can create. Plus, she's unbound. She doesn't serve to anyone, she doesn't serve to the Crown, her magic and her will are free. Lore's life was a happy one: she finally got a home, friends and a boy she loves. But all this will change when the Heir of the Crown come to her town amd made with her a deal.Now Lore must to help to the Heir with the Door, the great evil of the all Cynlira, that takes human sacrifices to remain closed.I loved this book so much, but I can tell you the exact reason why. At first it was so confusing, and I didn't understand nothing. The magic system is pretty interesting. It reminds me about the one that appeared on Serpent and Dove: you need to sacrifice something if you want to destroy or build something else.It's a dark story. I didn't see a real love here, maybe because Lore had such a sad past. The pacing is perfect, not slow, not fast. I've connected only with one character : Alistair, the Heir of Crown. And I definetly loved the Cruel Queen, she scared me with the only mention of her in the book. The end was a bit weird. I expected a happy end to the Lore's love story, but it didn't happen. But I can understand why.It's a great dark fantasy and it hooks you very fast. The story is pretty interesting and intriguing, and the characters are well builded.Thanks to Netgalley and to Sourcebooks Fire for providing me a copy of this book.
4036371759	I received an eARC of this book from Sourcebooks Fire through NetGalley. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.4 starsWho doesn't love a good "eat the rich" fantasy?What We Devour is a wonderful criticism of capitalism and of the ruling class. And it's definitely not all black and white, the 'bad guys' aren't always the ones we think. The world in this book is ruled by magical beings called Noble and Vile. These entities with powers used to live amongst mortals but were devoured and locked away, thus giving a glimpse of power to those who devoured them. People who devoured the Vile gained the power of destroying things, and people who devoured the Noble the power of creating. Usually people only have one of the two, but a few rare people have both, like Lorena, our heroine.The characters are amazing, so complex and interesting. They're all morally grey, and they're not afraid to get their hands dirty for the greater good. And the relationships between all of them were so well written. I particularly loved the relationship between Lorena and Alistair, I loved how they understood each other so well.If you like dark fantasy with cunning and strategic girls who topple the ruling class, I definitely recommend this book.Content warnings: self-harm, cutting, death of a parent, murder, mass murder, discussions and depictions of sacrificies/executions, references to child neglect and abuse, references to filicide, references to sibling deaths, references to mass suicide, and multiple scenes about death
7076028182	Buddy read with: MariI found this book when browsing the audible included library and stumbled upon it. Don’t think I have ever heard of it before? But it sounded really good, so I wanted to give it ago. Mari thought the same, so we went into it pretty much blind.The set up of the book is kinda confusing at first, because you get thrown a lot of lore into your lap. But if you go with it the way I go with most fantasy books (accepting your fate and hoping understanding will come later), you should be fine. I certainly was.The author has a beautiful writing style and stays very true to characters instead of going with “easier” more common trope ways, they might behave later on. The reserved one doesn’t suddenly become super open, the one that only looks out for themselves doesn’t suddenly want what’s good for everyone and the hero of the story ain’t a knight in shining armor doing everything in a way that is super clean in a world full of dirt.The characters felt all very authentic and real enough to love and hate. The storyline was not the most conventional and I LOVED that. It had its ups and downs, a lot of plotting, killing and deception. This is NOT your everyday fairytale, so don’t expect a happy ending, for this book won’t end the way you think it will at all.Highly recommend and will reread later on.
4900989042	3.5 starsCWs: blood, gore, injury, death, sacrificeThis was such an interesting concept, but after finishing the book I’m still a bit confused over the wrights and the wrought. I liked the idea of them, but I wish there had been a more clear explanation in the beginning because I struggled to follow and understand. The pacing was also off for me, and I found it quite slow. The second part of the book picked up for me, and that was when I found myself really invested in the story and Lorena’s character. I didn’t really connect with Lorena. I thought she was an interesting character, but I just felt really disconnected from her throughout the book. I would have liked to know more about all of the characters. Alistair, Carlow, Creek, and Basil were all super intriguing, and I especially wanted to know more about the curses on Carlow and Creek. I thought the fantasy elements were exciting and unique, and I liked how they were integral to the plot. The long-game that Lorena was playing was interesting and I liked seeing her manipulate all the other characters into doing what she wanted. I wish that there had been more action, though, because a lot of it was just Lorena manipulating and it got a bit repetitive. Overall an intriguing premise for a fantasy novel, but the slow pace made it a struggle to get into.
4500710836	Want to see more... Bookstagram Website Thank you NewSouth Publishing for this book in exchange for an honest reviewAll magic comes at a price. And with the extreme temptation of magic, people are compelled to seized it at any cost. But what if that cost involved a sacrifice? You either have the power to create or destroy.Our main character Lorena has been living under the radar, her whole life and lived in the countryside until her life completely changes and she is dropped into training, her life never going to be the same again.Like most of Miller’s books, this is dark and leaves you with questions as every chapter unfolds. Miller isn’t afraid to push the boundary with her writing and while she is underestimated, she had me convinced with her first book, that she is an author to be reckoned with.Overall, this book is filled with violence and grief, which is always needed in the over-bubbly YA world we currently live in!!
3983943648	* e-ARC provided through NetGalley *1.5I didn't like this. it wasn't for me. I rarely ever read fantasy but when I do I obviously expect at least humor or characters that aren't as flat and bland as these ones were. some books are too "mature" for me, because the tone of the book is serious all of the time so there are no paragraphs that would make me laugh. and I hate that with a passion. also, I don't see a point in reading a book without romance. I'm the "hopeless romantic" type of reader and books with no romance or very little romance bore me to the core. actual romance for two pages doesn't count.to be honest, I'm glad I listened to this and not read it. it was much easier to get through that way.there were parts that I liked about this, and, to be honest, those parts were only Alistair, especially the ones with tension between him and the main character. this wasn't the best, but it also wasn't trash, I promise. it just was everything I usually don't read but I picked it up because of the cover. so, to each their own.
4500499962	If it were possible to add decimals to the rating of 1-5 stars, I think I might give this book a 4.6, and so I found it most reasonable to round up. I think the world-building was really well done, and the pacing through most of the first half of the book was appropriate. However, I do feel that towards the tail end of the book, things fell apart just a bit; a fair amount of things felt unnatural given the rest of the story, and some of what was established in the earlier world-building stopped applying. This downside isn't drastic by any means, and I still enjoyed the book nonetheless, but it definitely threw me off.Character-wise, Lorena is a likable protagonist with consistent paths of personal reasoning. The characters she encounters as the story progresses are well designed and unique in their mannerisms, and I really liked the inclusion of a character using they/them pronouns (especially since it isn't dramatized or made to infer that they/them pronouns are outside of the norm).Overall, I found the book to be pleasant and would recommend it to anyone seeking a good casual read.
4214640253	What We Devour was a twisted, eerie, adventure of sacrifice and survival. Miller did an excellent job packing this novel with lots of dark and gory details that really make the reader shiver. I loved the entire idea behind this storyline--the wrights, the Door, the contracts--it was quite captivating. Lore and Alistair's relationship was bit wonky and questionable at time and the dynamic between Creek, Basil, Carlow, and Lore was really confusing at times, but overall I liked their characters. A few areas had odd time jumps or moments that shifted so suddenly I thought I had missed something but it was just the writing style of the author, which is fine, just made it difficult to follow at times. Overall, this was a fantastic read and I'd recommend it.
4212043794	Originally published on The Nerd Daily | Review by Annie DeoA dark and brooding fantasy with an amoral asexual heroine, a charismatic villainous prince, and diverse secondary characters in a broken world steeped in gloomy and on a collision course with its ominous history. Readers who enjoy rich complex characters, difficult moral quandaries and political intrigue will relish sinking their teeth into this book.Read the FULL REVIEW on The Nerd Daily
5843268965	While i loved the ace visibility of the protagonist, everything else was a clunky wash. The worldbuilding is constantly shifting, dialogue is difficult to follow, the passage of time is practically fake.There's this thing in playwriting where you have to remember to have your characters enter AND exit the stage, otherwise they're just... stuck there, and Miller unfortunately leaves her characters hanging out in the scene about a zillion times.Intrigued as I was by the idea, it just didn't execute for me.Also, no one literally eats the rich. There's one scene where I thought mayyyybe we were gonna get exactly that, but it's a red herring. And that's disappointing, because in this setting, that idea has _legs_.
7032385102	This book was just... not good. The writing itself was beautiful and descriptive but the way the actual story unfolded was nonsense and quite confusing. I didn't like any of the characters and the romance felt sudden and forced. How we got from point A to point B I will never be able to tell you because it was either extremely confusing or the words just disappeared from my brain the moment I took them in. Just a painfully forgettable book that left me with a feeling of unending frustration.
3249257400	Let me just bold and underline that 'morbid and creepifying' tag; this is a shattered world full of people struggling to survive, the Queen is terrifying, the Heir's not much better, and Lore has to be as terrifying as any of them to try and hold onto herself and her wrights. Could not stop reading.Tagged 'lgbtqa' because Lore is ace and gets very annoyed when someone implies she might need to be 'fixed' in some manner.
3812225869	Ahhhhhh okay this was very good!!! I loved the darkness of the story, the morally grey characters, the magic system- all of it!! Highly recommend if you’re a fan of like Wicked Saints or The Unwilling. The only thing with this book is that you really have to pay attention, it’s pretty fast paced with a lot happening and if you try to read too fast it may get a bit confusing but hoooooweeee is it a great read!!
4240263200	DO YOU LIKE GRUESOME MAGIC BUT HATE CAPITALISM? THIS IS THE BOOK FOR YOU.A+ magic system. God I love the character, the ugliest type of ambitious, willing to do anything, but her ambition is to save her country and her people from the wealthy who seek only profit at the cost of everyone/thing else. This book is unforgiving and brutal. It is excellent.(My ONLY complaint is that I wished a few more long term questions were answered at the end, but I think that’s more of a personal preference and less of a commentary on how well the story ends.)
4102569703	What We Devour is a magical YA fantasy novel that feels almost like dark academia blended with a quest story. This is a seriously well written book, with lyrical prose that gives the story a stylistic and elegant feel without being overwritten. That, combined with a magic system based on sacrifices, and a heavy theme of death, make this a fantastically dark offering with plenty of twisted imagery. This book has many, many great ideas. Unfortunately, most of them just weren't executed as well as they could have been. I feel like there was just so much going on in such a short space, that it left no time to explore anything in depth.
4313136634	First and foremost, I loved the diverse cast of characters that the author created, we love to see it!Second, I thought it was a bit confusing, especially at the beginning. I thought some things could have been better explained (or quicker) because it took away from my reading experience since I didn't get to fully immerse myself in the story and the characters. Also, the mc is said to be 17, but to me she felt more like 24 or something... probably just me, but still.That being said, I did think it was a very interesting and original plot and the ending was good.Overall a 3 star read for me.
4174249258	What I loved: the magic, plot, ace rep, protagonist, charactersWhat I struggled with: pacing Overall a great book. The pacing was slow - too slow - but the MC was so likable that it was only a minor flaw in my opinion.
4098457962	Well. That was painful.
4098881954	Thanks to NewSouthBooks for this review copy, 3 stars. See thoughts in status updates
7952493176	DNF at 89% because i had no clue what was going on and did not care to figure it out.
7500718458	the concept of the plot sounds interesting but reading it feels tedious and boring. Stopped at chapter 8.
3482247456	Wow.This was a very interesting book. The magic system, the world, the characters, the critique of capitalism. I can definitely see myself rereading it.
