6328569926	I completely adored this. Oh my god I can’t even begin to explain how perfect I found this book. I can feel it sitting under my chest still. The premise commences simply enough. Following on 10 years after the murder of his friend at Oxford in 1905, Jem is still being haunted by the events of that night and after an anonymous letter is delivered to his work, leading to the loss of his job, Jem sets out to uncover the truth (very I Know What You Did Last Summer vibes there at the start). Regarding the quality- It’s KJ Charles and if you know, you know, I don’t need to sell you on how accomplished her skill as a writer and storyteller is. KJ Charles prefaced this book by saying that it was a murder mystery and not a romance. I think that this was a completely unnecessary disclaimer, cause I have rarely read a story that demonstrated so many layered, complex, genuine and sometimes toxic relationships and demonstrations of love and I am OBSESSED. The whole cast of characters was fabulous. I feel reluctant to say too much to give anything away but everyone in the group of friends felt well realised as characters with genuine and complex motivations. Jem was a delightful main character who was clever and damaged and whose heartache and pain caused me to have actual goosebumps. At times this gave me dark academia vibes that triggered off elements of Babel or Saltburn. It was a tense, emotional, engaging and queer historical mystery and will go down as one of my favourites for the year. Thank you to NetGalley and Storm Publishing for the opportunity to read this ARC.
6325703394	I could write a long review, or I could simply say that as soon as I finished Death in the Spires, I got grumpy, and the reason I got grumpy was that I could no longer read Death in the Spires for the first time.Twisty plot: check. Extraordinarily appealing detective with morally complicated love interest: check. Broody setting: check. Satisfying and unexpected form of justice: check.At the end of the book mention is made of "K.J. Charles's next page-turning historical mystery." Show of hands for more of brave, big-hearted Jem? -- Yes, I thought so. Thanks to Storm Publishing and NetGalley for the ARC.
7393129612	I have no idea how I came about this book, but it's exceptional. Fantastic writing, well-drawn characters, and a mystery that remains precisely that until its final pages. Easily one of my favourite books of 2025!
6324726557	Hooo boy, if this happens when KJ Charles isn’t required to write a romance HEA and people being nice to each other, I’m here for it! (For the love of god, do not go into this with an expectation of a romance novel! I dare say you won't be left entirely empty-handed or damaged for life but you won't get what you seek.)The mystery is solid and I really enjoyed trying to guess the whodunnit (I didn’t guess the murderer - I spent the majority of the novel jumping between the suspects like a rabbit on speed - but I did guess the biggest asshole for which I’m very pleased with myself). However, the thing I enjoyed even more is Charles’s work with characters and also how effortlessly she weaves in bigger (and topical) themes, such as female agency and bodily autonomy, racism, social inequality and privilege. This book is at once heavy and angry and vicious and gentle and deeply human. It's about friendship, guilt and forgiveness and the poison of lies and secrets. The whodunnit is important but not for the reasons it normally is in a murder mystery.I received the ARC from the publisher through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.(Siri, remind me to check the Goodreads reviews in a year to see how many dudes are leaving outraged reviews because they picked this murder mystery and found *gasp* gays in it.)
6324321348	IT'S GIVING THE SECRET HISTORY, IT'S GIVING MAURICE, IT'S GIVING KJC BABBBBYYYYYYYYY
6324517660	If you read The Secret History and hated the characters, and the bleak ending made you feel terrible, this might be the book for you!In her first non-romance, we've got K.J. Charles trying her hand (and succeeding) at a historical mystery, dark academia style. It's 1905, and our main character is Jeremy "Jem" Kite, who has just been fired from his job when a letter accusing him of murder showed up in his employers' mail. This is not the first or even the tenth such letter Jeremy has received, as he was part of a friend group at Oxford where one of the friends were murdered, a murder that was never solved, and the infamy has ruined his life. Jeremy was on scholarship to Oxford but was quickly absorbed into the prestigious friend group headed up by Toby Feynsham, who likes to "collect" interesting people. For two years, they lived the dream, and then things started to get complicated, and by the end of their third year, Toby was dead, two of their friend group had fled Oxford, and the rest did their best to pick up the pieces.Losing this job is the last straw for Jem, who determines to stir things up with his old friends and find out who killed Toby—because he knows it was one of them. I really liked Jem right away. He was a great way in to this story, as his outsider status made him the perfect observer. He also had the least to lose from digging out old secrets, because he'd already lost everything. The friend group is also full of really interesting characters that are explored with emotional nuance and an eye to social, racial, and gender differences (as per the usual for Charles). Two women scholars (who were rare), a black man, and two queer men make up Toby's friend group (along with Toby and Hugo, both white, rich, straight men). The clashes between their differences make for a really tense storyline. I was also actively trying to solve the mystery, and I failed—the author used my emotions against me, and though there isn't a twist here, the story took a turn I wasn't really expecting at the end. But mainly this book had a fantastic resolution that not only resolved the mystery but also sent me on way emotionally satisfied.If you like mysteries or historical fiction, I do highly recommend this one. (And all of K.J. Charles's romances as well.) I hope she writes more mysteries going forward.[4.5 stars]Read Harder Challenge 2025: Read a queer mystery.
7928350663	This was AMAIZING. K.J. Charles doesn't disappoint, the dark academia vibes, the mystery, the yearning, it was all set up perfectly! The thing with thrillers is that sometimes they feel repetitive, so you may think that this book is the same as any other with a similar plot. A group of dysfunctional friends meet in a highly prestigious university, and they are super toxic with each other. BUT, even though it might not feel unique, the way the story is written, how the characters act and interact with each other, was just marvellous storytelling. In this case, Jem is brilliant but is the one who comes from a low-class background and has a small disability. Toby is the ring-leader, Ela his twin sister, Aaron the med student who is also a minority, Pru who is Ela's roommate and is another skilled but also poor student, Hugo the wealthy, aloof athlete and Nicky the eccentric and devoted friend.At first, it all seemed to go well; they adored each other, and Jem felt as if he had actually found a place in his life where he was accepted and happy. As always, with toxic friendships, there started to be problems, and their group ended up dissolving after Toby died.10 years later, and Jem is in a state of limbo, not having done anything with his life, so he decides to finally put everything to rest and find out what happened the night Toby died. This decision becomes the beginning of the end of their kept secrets, and what is discovered is more than what Jem originally expected.I really had the best time listening to this book, I was conflicted because I wanted to keep listening to find out what was gonna happen, and at the same time I was dreading it to be over. I wouldn't call it necessarily a romance, even though there are some romantic elements. For me, it was more of a thriller and a self-discovery story. Of course, I wouldn't mind an extended epilogue where everyone is happy, or another book with Jem finding his HEA and maybe uncovering another mystery.
6379000838	Crimes of PassionK.J. Charles's Death in the Spires begins in 1905, when our hero Jeremy (Jem) Kite is called into his boss's office. His boss has just received an anonymous letter accusing Jeremey of murder. Jem immediately knows what this is about, because it's something he's been living with for ten years. The REAL beginning of our story is in 1892, when Jem shows up at Oxford as a new student. He is quickly taken up into a group of seven friends, revolving about Toby Feynsham. So brilliant are these seven, both in sports and scholarship, that they become known among their contemporaries as the "seven wonders". Until 1895, when Toby was murdered. The other six know that the murderer had to be one of themselves. But the murder has not been solved. Jem, prodded by the letter, is no longer able to let sleeping dogs lie, and begins to investigate. So it's a murder mystery with some of the usual elements common to most murder mysteries. Two things about Death in the Spires stand out as different from genre murder mysteries. First, the usual mystery novel is passionless. The investigation is framed as an intellectual exercise, a game that the author plays with the reader. Indeed, Jem's boss alludes to this in his conversation with Jem. And, even more strangely, the murderers in genre mysteries are coldly rational actors, who plan their murders, and carefully think about the costs and benefits. That is not the seven wonders at all. They are not coldly rational sociopaths. These are passionate, angry people (who, indeed, have much to be angry about). Death in the Spires is more emotionally powerful, and more believable as an account of murder, than most mystery novels.The second thing that jumped out to me was, "This could not happen today." Charles has described Death in the Spires with these wordsIt's also whatever the opposite of a love letter to Oxford University might be. Possibly hate mail.But the message is addressed to late 19th century Oxford, not the 21st century university that some of us know. At one point in the novel Jem and Hugo tell each other: ‘It hasn’t changed, has it?’‘Not much. Nothing here does.’But it does. If your time horizon is ten years, the change is imperceptible. But the Oxford of Death in the Spires is not 2024 Oxford.The Oxford in which Dorothy Hodgkin could not become a full-fledged Oxford Don because she was a woman is gone. That would not happen today. The England that convicted Alan Turing of "gross indecency" is gone. Gone too is the Oxford that would greet a brilliant new student with public mockery because he had, through his own merit, won a competitive scholarship. Now, to be sure, the prejudices that motivated those injustices are still alive and flourishing in some quarters. But, at the very least, the legal environment has changed. And it has changed for the better!Death in the Spires is not a typical genre mystery -- it is something better than that.Thanks to NetGalley and Storm Publishing for an advance reader copy of Death in the Spires. Blog review.
6382517256	I was skeptical about how much I would enjoy a ‘not a romance’ mystery but I was completely enthralled with this cleverly layered historical story. The audio narration was brilliant, I came to love Nicky’s distinctive voice and really all the main cast were very well done. Initially I was a little lost in the 2 timelines and many cast members due to the audio but before long everyone felt very distinct. Even the murder victim who is dead the majority of the novel had a brilliantly developed character arc, I felt like I knew him as a living character. I’d love to see how these people are getting on later in life, I need more!! I felt very invested by the end and was wonderfully surprised by the mystery. As much as I loved this I do hope KJ Charles goes back to writing her usual ‘romance with a body count and a dash of dry humour’ fare as she does those so bloody well and I’ve read her entire backlist and need more.
6457356414	I am obsessed. For real for real. The characterization in this book is literal goals. I've read other books from Charles and enjoyed them, but this is something else. A few things that stood out:- Character depth. It almost doesn't matter what happens in this story (though there is in fact plenty of excellent plotting) because I swear these characters could just be peeling bananas and I'd be riveted. - That was not a euphemism.- Jem, our main character, and the only POV of the book. You feel so entirely sorry for his situation right from chapter one. I love feeling sorry for characters. - Dual timelines. It's usually not my preference, but here it really works. With that said, most of the book does seem to take place in "present day."- Writing style. Easy, straightforward, with lines that pop out of the bushes and punch you straight in the mouth. - Setting. Lots of fog. Very moody. - Ending (no spoilers). I was afraid basically the whole story that we'd get a tragic ending. Nope. I walked away entirely satisfied. It's a great book. Read it! **As a fellow author, I only post about books I heartily recommend. If I didn't love something, I won't review it.**
6419741515	✰ 4 stars ✰ “He couldn’t go on like this, loving people and suspecting them at once. A human mind couldn’t do that without breaking.” The thing that I find admirable about KJC's writing style is how she adds a flair to her historical fiction that lights a certain spark to the story and characters that makes it such a highly entertaining, if not appealing one. It is not only how well written it is - it is how the characters are well-rounded and the story so well-developed that you find yourself engrossed in the plot - following along the events as they unfold and seeing the characters interact as the pace steadily moves towards its conclusion. 🤍🤍 It is such an enjoyable experience that one can't help but appreciate her writing talents that shine with each book I feel fortunate to read. Even if her latest book Death in the Spires was heavily anointed as one that deviated from her usual - namely, it being more a mystery than a romance - it still carried all the charming flavors that make KJC's works such a delightful treat. 🙏🏻“So: all of us could have, none of us would have, one of us did. It resembles one of those immensely tiresome riddles.”I love mysteries and I am not ashamed to admit that I had my suspicions for a few, but with never enough concrete evidence until all the reveals were brought together. It reads like a classic whodunit mystery, but it was the way we follow thirty-one-year old Jem from the minute the ten years of trying to escape the death that has followed him into his later years suddenly makes a return in his life, to the dogged steps he takes to track down every remaining member of Oxford's creme de la creme that makes it such an entertaining read. 🤌🏻🤌🏻 'All we have is inference, implication, and suspicion.' The narration slips so easily into the past so that we get to see Jeremy Kite's emotions and thoughts at the time. How he was with the elite of the pack - how such an oddball felt in their presence and what relationships he forged during that time. “But it was one of us,’Jem said through lips that felt a little stiff. ‘I quite agree that none of us could possibly have done such a thing, but we all know that one of us did.”And you can't help but root for him; he is a sympathetic protagonist who has carried the stigma like a scarlet letter throughout his failed prospects for the future and all he wants to know now is who really killed his best friend, Toby. Even when he is guided by his heart to act foolishly or impulsively, his heart still was in the right place. 😟 Becoming a detective wasn't only a means to an end to quiet those who continue to torment him and his career, but finally put to rest the guilt and uncertainty - to quell the inconclusive way their lives abruptly ended. 'He needed to be strategic, not sentimental,' and for the most part, he let sound judgment and meticulous thinking guide him and not allow himself to be swayed by the memories of what they had been ten years ago, when 'the world was before them, a great sunlit path through pleasant meadows with a glittering city at its end ready for them to conquer.' ✨But Toby's death and the blame game that followed ruined his life, he lost everything and with nothing left to lose, it is not enough to receive threats that hint that any one of them may be guilty - it is about piecing together the past to try to understand and paint an image of what really transpired the night of his murder. Even if he was considered one of the Seven Wonders, he never thought himself as wondrous as them - 'nothing wonderful. Nothing remarkable. Nothing at all' - yet being invited into their clique changed his life. 🥲 He was bound by their friendship, compelled by an attraction, captivated by an attraction, compelled by a loyalty, love for what they were - that who they were - those relationships made him into the person he is now - the good and the bad. “Fastened in fetters your inmost thoughts—How much have you lost to this wretched, sordid business, Jem? How much of your life did it lay waste?”I also appreciated the thought and care it went into making it feel as authentic to Victorian England as much as possible - in mannerisms and mindsets of that time. It was also interesting to see how she incorporated real-life social problems of that time into the plot. 👍🏻👍🏻 Following alongside Jem as he tried to piece together the memories of that day, trying to understand what could have led to his murder was both a cathartic if not rewarding feeling for me. Yet there was a trace of such a lingering sadness at the ending - not really a closure that demanded retribution, but simply in the art of knowing - that was the entire purpose of Jem's pursuit - the need to know - no matter how painful the truth may be. 😥Toby's death affected everyone in different ways - a friendship that perhaps was inevitably doomed from the start, but trudged on in the hope that all that they kept quiet wouldn't find a way to tear them apart. ‘We can’t talk to each other as we did, because we’re not as we were.' Each locked away with their own guilty conscience - each life ruined by the inescapable bond that tied them together - each of them inadvertently harboring their own reason for being close to him - a kind of love that affected their judgment of the kind of person he was - it was heartbreaking to see that crumble. 🥺 It was such a palpable loss of a time that has come and gone never coming back the innocence and vivacity of youth, the free spirited highs and the lows - the enthrall of one's whole life ahead and the way one decisive act can crumble it all. 😔“Let’s pretend it never happened, he’d wanted to say. Let’s escape from this damned place where neither of us is wanted, let’s make a sane life, a reasonable one, without grand passion.”I know it was heavily promoted as not a romance, but there was still enough of a romance to satiate the ones who enjoy how she makes the relationships flow - the dynamics engaging - the chemistry wanting. It is not as spicy, which I suppose is an attempt to herald in a new audience who appreciate fade to black over the more explicit details, so that they can get a taste of her writing prowess, but I still enjoyed how she portrayed it - "—with a longing that was entirely permissible if it was understood to be impossible.' 😢 The dynamic is touched upon so subtly, but tastefully so that you get to witness one of my favorite brands of romance - yearning so very palpable that the temptation is part of the pain - that the rekindling of a second chance of love could be touched upon achingly so - ' What that might have meant. What they might have had. What he’d lost.' That desire can be both a motive and a victim, that wanting can lead to betrayal, that even loving someone is enough to sway one's reasonable sense. ❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹But, if I were to have one complaint that severely hampered my overall enjoyment of it would have been how I couldn't help but draw certain yet slight similarities to If We Were Villains. I know people tend to get overly defensive when one points out it reminds them of another work, but here it was too oddly familiar that prevented me from really feeling it. 😕 It may be my own personal notion, but it lingered with me, throughout. But, I still had a wonderful time with it; it flowed with its sharp, crisp dialogue, well-paced plot and its intriguing dark academia vibes, enriched further by how capable she is in crafting characters that come alive in whatever story she breathes to life. 🌟🌟
7430268153	I came across this book through a Goodreads review, and it sounded like one for me.It is 1905, and ten years since one of an Oxford University group of friends was murdered, but the killer was never unmasked.Jem, one of the friends, is dismissed from his position due to an anonymous letter sent to his place of employment which accuses him of the murder, and Jem decides that now is the time to solve the mystery once and for all.This necessitates Jem returning to the University, and contacting the rest of the group. Not all are happy to see him...A very decent historical murder mystery!
6406667477	це перша спроба авторки написати детектив, а не романс, і спроба ця дуже вдала, бо - сюрприз! - якщо добре створити своїх персонажів, то читачам буде не байдуже до їхньої долі.події відбуваються в Оксфорді 189... років, тут і компанія блискучих студентів, і Шекспір, і нагла смерть, і зради, і таємниці, але правда відкриється лише через 10 років. і найскладнішим вибором для головного героя буде вирішити, що ж тепер робити з цією правдою.
6387192996	Well played, KJ Charles, well played 👏👏It took me a little while to get into this book—especially with all of the back and forth in the timelines. But once I did, I couldn’t put it down!What a mystery where everyone has a great reason for murder! I had nooo idea who did the dastardly deed! And I love that. Fantastic audiobook narration, too.
7943885225	5.0+ Stars. I decided to read this book as a result of the Goodreads Dark Academia Autumn Challenge, and to be honest, wasn’t expecting much. But what I got was one of the most fun and exciting books I’ve read this year. A murder mystery set mostly at Oxford University in 1892-1895 and ten years later in 1905, the story focuses on 7 friends, one of whom (Toby) is murdered in 1895 during their last days of university. Then years later, the murder still unsolved, one of the remaining six (Jeremy, AKA Jem) is tired of living in a limbo of suspicion and scandal, and so determines to figure out which of the friends did the murder. But the more Jem roots around in their past and present lives, the more secrets he stumbles upon. And as things turn out, all of them had their secrets in college. And further, any one of them might have had the motive to kill Toby. There are secret romances, secret loves, and forbidden passions. There are brave but illegal stands and justified hatreds. And as Jem slowly unravels all of it, the reader first suspects one, then another and another until finally the murderer is revealed. But even then, the story is not over. Not by a long shot. It’s been a long time since I read a mystery that I didn’t feel was formulaic. But this one certainly was not, and so it was LOADS of fun. Highly recommended for any fan of murder mysteries. Loved this book!
6425299566	3,5 stars, but rounded down. I enjoyed the first half of the book more, afterwards it got repetitive and a bit underwhelming.The "mystery" is hardly riveting, though I think that is because the author's focus is on the characters and they are really well done as usual in their books.
6420342675	The bad are punish'd,good rewarded, dead forgot,hope and faith restor'd.I really love this one--it's always hard to know if 5 stars will hold up on a re-read, but this one certainly did. There are spoilers below. I've kept it vagueish, but I haven't hidden them behind tags.I'm not usually a fan of a dual timeline, but it works here, not least because Jem is such an unreliable narrator, refusing to acknowledge how much he romanticized himself and his friends. In so many ways, though this is a mystery rather than a romance, it's also Jem's reckoning with his own failures. I loved that the solving of the mystery was really the solving of Jem's crisis of confidence. I thought the plot (such craft, KJC!) really drove the internal conflict.I'm so glad he got 1000L. He deserved it. And I think it was made clear that he couldn't bounce back from the murder the way the others (except Prue, though I was glad she seemed to have had a happy marriage) could because of his class and his physical disability (and that was exacerbated by class) rather than a kind of moral weakness. He had no safety net and in true KJC fashion, the safety net is always money if not (see Aaron) status. I would not have forgiven Nicky's callousness as quickly or as completely as Jem, and didn't quite buy his explanation. Jem didn't ever feel secure in that relationship, so the "I really did care for you" seemed a little retconned. OTOH, Jem wasn't an entirely reliable narrator--he said that he'd always known it was Nicky, but we didn't really see that knowledge but had to take his word for it. I was glad that Toby's murder was basically self-defense. I would have had trouble reconciling cold-blooded murder with the reconciliatory and hopeful ending. I did LOVE that they basically threatened Hugh with the blame if he didn't pay up. Interesting that Ella also blackmailed--apple didn't fall far from the tree.And, though it was a fact of life (and still is), I do sort of hate rape as a defining characteristic and motive. Let's find another way to make people evil without sexually violating women or other socially marginal people.
6368177027	First proper length book completed in who knows how long, not for lack of trying. This was good. decent but nothing special. I don't know if it was the book's fault or just that I'm still transitioning into my comfort zone. The murder mystery was okay, not that much of an intrigue to it same about the characters. It's dark academia only in the broadest sense of the booktock trends, such that its set at Oxford and about a group of friends who studied there until one of them ended up murdered. I think also my first book by K.J. Charles? they are supposedly mainly a romance author but despite that this ended up not too romance-y which is admirable I suppose.
6335350022	I am pretty sure I would read anything that KJ Charles writes, but I was very excited when I saw she was set to publish her first mystery novel. (Luckily, this still also has some romance in it too.)Once I started Death in the Spires, I don't think I set it down until I was unfortunately forced to. The story draws you right in and emotionally invests you in the life of Jeremy "Jem" Kite, our main character, who can't outrun the rumors that he murdered his university friend ten years prior. Exhausted by not knowing what truly happened back then, Jem begins to reconnect with his old friends and returns to Oxford in an attempt to learn the truth. He's soon uncovering long-buried secrets, rekindling old relationships, and dodging multiple attempts on his life.Overall, I really enjoyed this story, the setting in Oxford, and the diverse group of Oxford friends known as the 'Seven Wonders'. Can't recommend this one more and can't wait for literally whatever KJ Charles writes next!Many thanks to Storm Publishing and NetGalley for providing the ARC in exchange for my honest review.
6451908473	I thoroughly enjoyed this shift in genre by K J Charles. I’ve read several of their fantasy books and enjoyed them all but this worked really well. I read it almost one sitting. I didn’t really find the characters terribly compelling but all in all I think the author should give us more! Many thanks to NetGalley for an arc of this book.
6425948214	The best thing she’s done since Will Darling.
6488488883	In "Death in the Spires," K.J. Charles introduces us to the haunting mystery surrounding the death of Oxford student Toby Feynsham in 1905. Narrated by Jeremy Kite, Toby's best friend, the story follows Jem's relentless pursuit of the truth after receiving an anonymous accusation of Toby's murder. As Jem delves into the past, he uncovers the shattered lives of the 'Seven Wonders,' a close-knit group of friends to which he belonged. Each member holds secrets and pain from that fateful night, leading Jem to question if one of them could truly be Toby's killer.Charles expertly weaves together a tale of friendship, betrayal, and obsession, keeping readers on the edge of their seats as Jem races to uncover the truth while evading a relentless pursuer. With her skillful storytelling and vivid prose, Charles paints a gripping portrait of a man haunted by the past and determined to find justice, even at the risk of his own life. "Death in the Spires" is a riveting historical mystery that will leave readers guessing until the very end.
6324326566	3.75 starsIt's a pity that anti-Oxbridge books rarely comment on the quality of the educational experience, focussing instead on social inequalities. KJC takes on Oxford's upper-class image here, using lower-middle class Jem as her straw man. Her success in doing that feels remarkably personal: her occasional comments on social media about her own experiences at Oxford clearly inform Jem's perceptions. The university background is almost incidental — it provides old buildings and a built-in recognition of privilege, without any balancing assessment of its academic credentials.I think this imbalance translates to the plot of the book too: KJC seems far more interested in skewering pretension than creating a really well-thought-out murder plot. (view spoiler)[The murderer is revealed well before the ending, leaving the last few chapters to be muddied by the introduction of another crime (this one, too, depending on the villainy associated with wealth & privilege). (hide spoiler)]Although the book is billed as a mystery NOT a romance, the passages where it comes alight are, paradoxically, the ones where love and betrayal are uppermost. There's a decent romance here fighting to get out, and being reined in by the cage of KJC's private polemic. Pity.
7555010800	I had a good time with this, even though the beginning left me a bit cold (about a third of the way through). But, once I understood better who the seven main players were and the dynamics between them, I was along for the ride. This does have a romantic component, but do not expect the normal KJ Charles graphic level! I found Jem quite an engaging protagonist (and it was weird to hear his name said so often, because a novel I am allegedly writing has a main character named Jem and I'm not sure I've ever come across this name in my reading before). Also, had never heard of The Malthusian League before, but the most interesting thing about this book was the connection the plot had to feminist issues and reproductive rights! The solution to the mystery was actually unexpected to me, and I really liked the reveals! Would definitely read more of these KJC mysteries, if she publishes them in the future. Also, audiobook was great!The plot is ofc very much a trope, but I loved the way it was done, as a hater of The Secret History, with which it shares some elements (Twins! Dark academia shit! A rich prick!) - I liked this group way better, because not all of them were pricks, rich or otherwise.
7748948375	Anyone who's read more than a couple kjc books knows that she loves to weave a mystery in between her romance and seeing that this is her first murder mystery without a romance subplot I was a bit doubtful, not of how good the book would be but of how much it would appeal to me. Glad to say my doubts were unneeded; I really really liked this. The characters here were a bit more serious than I've come to expect in kjc books. There was significantly less snark in the dialogue between the characters but I didn't mind too much. I loved Jem, his overly trusting senses and naivety was almost as endearing as it was sad. His conviction though was what really made me a fan!! The other characters I'm pretty lax about but I did really like Aaron!! Loving this was a pleasant surprise, although by now I should learn to expect the best from KJ Charles.
6566342594	Sigh. Another deliciously brilliant book by KJ Charles. How unexpected. Could she please suck at something?
6420858641	Didn't love the direction this took in the end, but good fun! A tasty little snack
6553689731	"Maybe our ability to remember changes with our desire to do so."
7920809644	Disappointing. The plot felt contrived and predictable.
7203692362	Story- 5 starsAudio- 5 starsThis was just a brilliantly written historical mystery.. more like a cold case. Very melancholy and truly not a romance at all… but it has queer themes so I did shelve it in M/M category. However it is an emotional tale with no real heroes and there is certainly more to the initial premise than meets the eye. Told between the present timeframe (1905) and flashbacks from the early 1890s through 1895… it is a riveting tale of 7 friends and how everything fell apart. I couldn’t put it down and am now depressed because it’s over. Highly recommended!! ❤️
6466938932	(view spoiler)[Be gay, detect crime? No! Be gay, do crime!! (hide spoiler)] A classic KJ, but leaning heavier on the plot than the romance this time. Delicious!
7142994297	4.5 stars.
6438101293	I'm giving this book a 2 star rating because, ultimately, it has more lows than highs for me, and those lows really impacted my enjoyment of it for the worse. However, it doesn't mean it's a terrible book and I don't regret reading it.Starting with the positives, the writing style is good and you can tell the author did a lot of research, so the descriptions and dialogue are vivid and immersive. I think KJ Charles did a great job making readers feel part of the Oxford atmosphere. It's also a fairly entertaining and fast-paced book, I finished it in barely three days. As for the lows, this book failed to create the necessary tension for me, which is quite a bummer in a murder mystery. It's not just that all the developments were predictable, but I never felt any danger for the character. I would have liked to be on the edge of my seat waiting to find out who was behind the murder, but it just didn't happen for me. Similarly, the romantic tension in the romance subplot landed completely flat for me. They're cute together, but never made me feel for them and root for them. There's also many dialogues where the author's hand shows too much for my liking. Even if I agree with the author's opinions on the matter, the way it's written feels too "on your face" and preachy for me. And I hated the ending. It's what I expected, and I don't dislike the themes and ideas explored, but absolutely hated the execution of them. I made me quite angry at the book and dampens the enjoyment I could have gotten from it otherwise.
6335683193	7 friends. 1 murder. 6 reasons to kill. I picked this up solely because it was the latest KJ Charles publication and was rather surprised to realize that it is *not* a romance!
7097061423	** spoiler alert ** i really enjoyed this but it had some substantial flaws. the writing is good and i flew through it. the mystery was gripping, although i think it became fairly clear where this was going early on. i again find myself reading mysteries that i guess the twists to, even though i’ve always been shit at guessing twists. maybe not anymore, maybe i’ve read enough to familiarise myself with the tropes and signals of the mystery genre.as far as the flaws go, and i’m not sure how to explain this, but i felt like the relationships between characters were more fleshed out than the actual characters themselves. a good example here is jem, who is honestly not that compelling of a character outside of his relationship with nicky. none of the characters in this novel stand by themselves very well; they are all more compelling as a result of the relationships they have with the other characters. some people might not see this as a flaw, but it bothered me a bit because i definitely read for characters, more so than plot or vibes. this is obviously comparable to the secret history and if we were villains (less so in plot, more so in premise) and both of those novels have better established invdividual characters. ultimately, it’s not that important that ella or aaron lack in characterisation because they don’t play a massive role in the story independently, but hugo felt like such a cardboard cutout.whilst the characters obviously felt betrayed by hugo’s actions, i didn’t because i’d never been set up to like him or believe in him with any more compelling reason than his friendship with toby who was obviously not as nice a bloke as he appeared to be in the first chapter. hugo’s behaviour stems from his entitlement and prejudice and this is totally believable considering his background, so it was barely even a twist that he was a rapist, blackmailer and violent criminal. (obviously i’m not saying everyone with his background is a criminal, i’m just saying he was never well established as a sympathetic character so it didn’t feel that impactful when he was revealed as a villain).
6473223279	What an absolutely amazing murder mystery! K.J. Charles never disappoints! I went back and forth constantly throughout this book, trying to decide who the killer was. It was filled with twists. This is wonderfully written and very well fleshed out with an intriguing premise and a great cast of distinct characters. Each character comes across as a unique defined individual without any of them seeming one dimensional. I loved the setting, and the flashbacks worked well with the story. Everything felt dark and very immerisive. I enjoyed Death In the Spires immensely and eagerly await more from the author. I received a complimentary copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are my own.
6531168703	Another great read from KJ Charles! I really liked that this one focused more on the murder mystery bits than the romance. The plot was very well developed and intriguing and I liked the cast of characters and their complicated relationships with each other. I did wish we had a bit more of a HEA than what we got, however. Even so, great read and the audiobook narrator was lovely.
6431552513	I tried this because I like academic mysteries, especially set in Oxford. It is an enjoyable, if often bleak mystery. The narrative keeps moving, there is a fair amount of suspense, and the characters are engaging, sometimes even likable. Jem is a consistently sympathetic character, although sometimes he seems to need a good shake. Feelings toward the other characters shift as progressing through the book.The setting is mostly accurate, although a fictitious college sets things a bit askew. A number of actual landmarks appear, such as Blackwell's bookshop (founded in 1879, now, alas, no longer in family hands), the Mitre, and the Randolph. The incidental mention of the Pitt-Rivers certainly brought back pleasant memories. The depiction of the early women's halls and colleges is mostly historically accurate. One thing that grates is the doctoring of academics. Nicky would have almost certainly been an MA at the time (unless he went to Germany to get a doctorate). The PhD octopus, as William James so aptly described it, had extended its tentacles from Germany to America by 1905, but no so much to England. The first Oxford DPhil is somewhat later (1917), and the vast proliferation of piled higher and deeper is a distinctly post-war phenomenon.
6325723904	How do you get me to read a book that is not a romance? When one of my favourite romance writers decides to write a book that isn’t a romance! I would read anything KJ Charles writes, and wow am I happy I read this one!Death in the Spires is a historical mystery that follows the story of Jem, who is working class and went to Oxford on a scholarship. While he was there, one of the members his group of friends was murdered. The story jumps between the past and present day. I loved getting to know all the characters in both timelines, and trying to figure out whodunnit.While it was not the central focus, there are some romantic elements to the book, and of course I absolutely adored those parts! The way the mystery was unravelled was expertly executed, which is no surprise from KJ Charles who is a master at managing elaborate plots. This book has a lot to say about class, justice, friendship, and forgiveness. Recommended!Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for the ARC!
6542696779	Alles von KJ Charles ist super, deswegen keine Überraschung, dass ich auch dieses Buch absolut genossen habe. Dafür dass sie so resolut davor gewarnt hat, dass es keine Romanze ist, sondern ein Krimi mit einem romantischen Subplot fand ich die Romanze trotzdem total schön und gefühlvoll. Sie kanns halt einfach. ;) Die Auflösung war gut, aber es ist mir am Ende alles ein bisschen zuu glattgegangen, dafür, dass so viel Drama und so viele Konflikte hinter ihnen lagen. Trotzdem wunderschön atmosphärisch.
6336225266	Я відчувала, що це буде детектив з тих, де вбивця виявляється не найголовнішим лиходієм, і KJ мене не підвела. І ще те гірке відчуття, знаєте, коли думаєш собі, що знаєш людину, а в якийсь непрекрасний момент дивишся на неї, наче вперше, і розумієш, як помилялася.Добротна історія з вайбом студентського/оксфордського життя.
6406990452	Death in the Spires is excellent historical fiction and an enjoyable murder mystery. It takes place in the early 1890s Oxford and London in 1905, and follows Jeremy Kite, a government clerk who loses his job when an anonymous letter accuses him of a murder that took place in Oxford ten years earlier. Incensed, he decides to investigate once and for all.Jem is a son of a factory worker, who with the help of a scholarship manages to get to Oxford to study mathematics, an achievement that was out of grasp of most working class people at the time. He’s short, clubfooted and doesn’t know the rules and manners of the place that is mostly populated by upper class white men who do not tolerate difference. He doesn’t have great expectations for his time there, but on his first day, he meets Toby Feynsham, a grandson of a marquis who takes him and other unusual people—for the era—under his wing, like a black man studying to become a doctor, two women (one of whom is Toby’s sister) and an (almost) openly gay man.Against all odds, Jem has magical time in Oxford with his group of friends. He excels in his studies and even participates in activities like the rowing team. And then, three years later, right before the finals, Toby is murdered. It happens after a huge row between the group, and in a manner that the friends know that only one of them could’ve done it. But they keep their mouths shut and the murder goes unsolved. It breaks the group and they never meet again.Jem’s life is destroyed by it. He has a breakdown and can’t graduate. He works for pittance at jobs he hates, and every now and then gets fired when rumours about the murder surface. So he starts to investigate, even though everyone he contacts tells him to leave be. To his surprise and sorrow, while the rest of the group seem successful, the murder has ruined their lives too, one way or another. And no one wants to talk.Jem returns to Oxford, reluctantly, and connects with his old love, which somehow makes things worse, as Nick is among the suspects too. Little by little, he forms a picture of what took place. It turns out, Toby wasn’t the wonderful person he believed and may even have brought the death on himself, and all his friends had secrets that could’ve made them the killer. But no matter the reasons, Jem knows only truth will release their group from the limbo their lives have become. Not everyone agrees, and Jem’s life is suddenly in danger.This was a wonderful, melancholy story of friendship, lost loves and missed chances. Like in Brideshead Revisited, the reader gets a vivid glimpse into a lost world of aristocratic academia, and the contrast with Jem’s dreary later life is great. Jem with his health issues is a lovely, dignified character who carries the story perfectly. His friends, flawed and all, are people who matter to him greatly. The reader doesn’t really want anyone to be the killer, to see them hang, and neither does Jem.Luckily, this is a story where truth and justice aren’t the same thing. We get both. The ending is absolutely satisfying, and it leaves the reader with a hope that from now on, Jem’s life will improve and everyone will live happily ever after—whatever that may mean for them.I received a free copy from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
8095685112	This is an excellent gothic murder mystery! Where a group of friends are torn apart when one of their group is murdered.Then, 10 years later, the poison pen letters start up, and Jeremy decides it's time to get to the bottom of the mystery, but someone doesn't want the truth to come to light.A perfect atmospheric read.
6420796908	I've been waiting for a rainy day to read this, and it finally arrived! In August, which rarely happens in my neck of the woods.Engrossing Oxford-set mystery novel (NOT a romance, though there are romantic elements) that goes back and forth between 1895 and 1905. I really recommend doing what I did and saving this for some sweater weather. It has a dark, foggy feel but is largely about people who are easy to root for, which is my ideal Fall (um, almost-Fall) read.
6335569327	Loved this! Just what I wanted for a plane ride.
