3466371916	Truly devious:- ⭐⭐.15/5Vanishing stair :- ⭐.75/5 Read review here Hand on wall :- ⭐⭐.5/5 read review here *Spoiler alert*Yeah so oh boy, I just read this renowned, esteemed, honoured and lauded book that everybody was asking me to read when I last wrote in my review to suggest me a good y/a mystery thriller book.And please, to people who asked me to read this, just shoo go away you may not be able to Handle this!! And also the people who haven’t still read this please go away because there are gonna be a lot of spoilers!• There are tons tons of videos/reviews about how good this book is just check them out because it’s a rant and definitely not a place for you!someone said the book has got some really interesting AGATHA CHRISTIE mentions and you know i love her !there were a total of 6 AC mentions that too totally unrelated! and dont argue with me , i counted okay!So back to the rant point:-• Wtf did I just read , I think my brain just committed suicide and there are still 2 more parts to go!!• Where do I even start? Well obviously the plot/synopsis!Well the thing about the synopsis was its intriguing and it bluffs you into reading this, its fucking incredible how interesting the synopsis was compared to entire book! •This book was ‘SUPPOSED ‘ to be an mystery thriller and that’s why I was here, congrats you tricked me and I am happy to be clowned for 12345 times this week.• By the time I completed the book I was out of fucks I give this book• 200 pages into the book and guess what happened ?• Nothing • NOTHING EXCEPT• Building the environment , atmosphere, building the timelines , constantly jumping from timelines and and and• CHARACTER INTRODUCTION • I HAVEN'T IN MY ENTIRE LIFE SEEN A BUNCH OF TEENS WITH BORING HOBBIES AND 0 EMOTIONAL DEPTH• They were fucking robots/machinery/machines whatever you wanna call them.• Steive/stephaine :- she is just toooooooooo much ! okay like you are smart,bright,intelligent fine good for you, but can you please use your brain sometime?Honestly this book would have ended if Steive would have confessed to Larry finding something which was very imp long ago but no she is SHERLOCK ( and author left no stone unturned for readers to believe that she is sooo smart and whatever she is doing is good)She is introduced to us a someone really good at this , like she could solve the mystery FBI couldn’t solve for past 80 years!Right so you expect her to be good!But she omg ! she really get on my nerves?• She tried really tooooooooooooooo hard to be HERCULE POIROT! And let me tell you girl whatever the hell you were trying to do don’t put it on AGATHA CHRISTIE( she is my love ) , that’s exactly not what hercule poirot do so please just fuck off and play with your boyfriend !• Speaking of boyfriend read this:-I think her brain was too busy being awesome that she didn’t mind making out in room of a girl who is missing with a boy who might be hiding something without giving a fuck that this room is still not searched !!!!!!Dudeeeeeeeee!! Are you out of your mind!• Second imp character DAVID :- SO HE IS PHYSCIOPATH !Like imagine this ,Hi I am David and if I have to stup up a person I say “ my parents are dead” though they are alive I do stupid stuff and stare at a girl name steive and asks my rich politician dad to give better jobs to her parents and I think I am cool!I lie a lot , like its my hobby and I love itAnd yes you could totally trust me!• Rest there are soo many characters whom its okay if you don’t care about!•There was a character named Vi, who is non binary character, I was really happy with this rep but every other time they are mentioned, Vi is mentioned instead of using the pronoun.•I was so frustrated like idk why ? that put me off.• And again in the first 20 pages of book, there was a girl wearing hijab and she was never mentioned again, she was just there for diversity rep just like Vi for LGBTQIAP+ rep!• Immediately those things …• Ahhh it was frustrating ! and that ending i mean wtf ! like what the author expected us to be shocked, intrigued dude please !I just care about what happened to ALBERT and his family I don’t give a fuck whatever this steive wanna do with her life.
2283100338	I LOVED THIS BOOK. If you need a new YA mystery novel, this is the one for you! Truly Devious totally took me by surprise. I had no idea I would love this book as much as I did! Cw: murderI loved our main character, Stevie. I wish this book existed in high school so that I could have had a female protagonist interested in true crime to relate to. I feel Stevie is extremely competent, self-aware, and has a really great head on her shoulders. I also loved her best friends, Janelle – we need more black girls who like girls in STEM fields in media, and Nate – he’s such an apathetic lil bean who I hope gets more development in the sequel. I wasn’t a crazy big fan of David (I guess he is considered the love interest? Truly Devious is FAR from a heavy romance story, but there is definite attraction). He just sort of weirded me out; Motives unclear half the time, sometimes annoying, sometimes charming. I can’t really feel out his character at this point, but I did enjoy him more towards the ending and I’m hopeful he’ll grown on me more in the future.I am not a huge fan of dual timeline books where it jumps from present to past with a completely different set of characters, but it worked well for this book. The scenes set in 1936 do not overtake the present story, but are a great addition to the story. It does not feel “info-dumpy”, rather, it is like reading two mysteries unfolding at once.I adore the mystery of the story. You truly CANNOT TELL who is “Truly Devious”, if the same killer has returned, or else how these two crimes are really connected! There are so many twists and turns and unanswered questions that you will be on the edge of your seat trying to figure out how everything fits together.I will add, I do feel like the pacing was a bit slow at some points. There are not many significant plot points until about halfway through. That being said, I keep reminding myself that most thrillers are condensed into one book, whereas this will be a trilogy, so I understand the decision/need to have a more fleshed out beginning before diving into all the drama. I am anxiously anticipating book two and am extremely hopeful that things will be nonstop action from here.Truly Devious is truly amazing. It is a MUST READ. Book #2 is already going to the top of my most anticipated releases for 2019. This book was sent to me unsolicited and for free by Harper Collins. I had no obligation to review this book and all opinions are my own.
2555916573	JOHN GREEN, PAY ATTENTION. This is how you write a cool mystery-y book with quirky teens without making me want to die.Okay, John Green, you can stop reading now. I think it would make me uncomfortable if you read the rest of this review, considering the mean things I’ve said and the mean things your fans have said to me in the comments of my mean things. We just have too much backstory.Now, for the rest of you!WHAT A FUN RIDE.As soon as I heard this book was “unsolved murder mystery at boarding school,” I was in. When I heard the elaboration “unsolved rich people murder mystery from History mixed with current boarding school murder mystery plus true crime aficionado,” I was EXCITED.And whoa mama was that excitement warranted.This was not a perfect read for me by any means. I think the quirkiness was wayyy extraneous at some points (even if it wasn’t John Green-level - but truly what is), and it took away from the pacing and the believability. It kind of felt surreal at times. (Like, can we stop talking about the girl who somehow has her dirty unshowered hair in a million tiny ponytails tied with baby socks and get to the murdering, please?)Also, the pacing of this was weird just because it’s a three-book series with one or two main mysteries. So you get answers at some points in this book, but not a lot of them and not really any that matter. A very unsatisfying experience.I think if I could have read all three books at once and pretended they were one very long book, I would have liked this more. As is, it’s a solid three point five.Also, I already forget what happened in the second book. But that’s unrelated.Bottom line: This was fun and promising! But weird stuff prevented it from being any more than that.-------------reread reviewhell yeah.rounding up to 4 (instead of down to 3) upon reread-------------reread updatesTHERE'S GOING TO BE A FOURTH BOOK??!i just picked this up for a reread on basically a whim and now i find out there's another installment out in 2 months. i think i'm god.-------------pre-reviewbaby, let me tell you...I GOT WHAT I CAME FOR.review to come-------------tbr reviewi am ready for INTRIGUE. i am ready for SUSPENSE. i am ready for CRIME and MURDER.
2411342028	i swear, there is no better feeling in the world than getting to a big reveal in a murder mystery and being able to shout, ‘I KNEW IT!’maybe that makes the story too predictable and easy, but wow, what a confidence boost and what an enjoyable book! for a plot revolving around a murder, this is surprisingly... light? the story has a very easy going and game-like feel to it. this is also a slow burn mystery (nothing really happens until about halfway in), but its done in a really effective way where you didnt feel like the story is dragging. all i can say is i had fun and im looking forward to seeing what happens next!↠ 4 stars
2623733837	“A girl from Pittsburgh came to Ellingham Academy and she wanted to see a dead body. She got her wish.” Friends, you’d think a book that is centered around two different murders would be a lot more exciting and enjoyable to read. I know I sound harsh already, but I just really thought I was going to love this one. But I truly only ended up loving the atmosphere of the setting and the amazing anxiety rep. That’s it. This story stars a young girl named Stevie, who just got invited to attend Ellingham Academy, a very prestigious, private school for the most gifted of children. Stevie has dreamed of being a detective her entire life and feels like this is going to be an amazing new adventure for her, because Ellingham Academy is also well known for a murder mystery that happened years and year ago, which was never solved, and one body was never found. The only thing that was found was a letter signed truly devious, which also quickly was destroyed. Stevie thinks it will be so much fun to investigate the school (which is built into the side of a mountain, like, so freaking cool) but another murder soon happens to a person that she recently befriended. Now, she feels like she must get to the bottom of both of these mysteries, and she’s uncovering more and more secrets that were supposed to be kept hidden. “Schools may be famous for many things: academics, graduates, sports teams. They are not supposed to be famous for murders.” Trust me, I made that synopsis sound way cooler than the actual book. Stevie is a cool character though, and I liked seeing her dynamic with her very conservative parents, when she is in a much more liberal mindset. And as I mentioned in the opening paragraph, Stevie has many anxiety and panic attacks throughout this story, and I honestly have never read a more realistic portrayal of how my attacks actually feel and I am still in awe of it. Like, I completely believe that this has to be an ownvoices portrayal, because it was so expertly crafted. But another fun thing about this book is that we get to see Stevie interact with all the other kids at this private school, and they are all truly possible suspects. Yet, the reader will also be left guessing how this new murder will correlate with the one from the past that was never truly solved. “When you have enough power and money, you can dictate the meanings of words.” Going into this, everyone told me that the ending was going to kill me and probably make me the third victim of this tale, but honestly? It just annoyed me. Like, it was so far out there that I was just left completely flabbergasted. Especially after Stevie’s discovery prior to that wild ending. I don’t know, I just felt like it actually ended up leaving a bad taste in my mouth, and for sure didn’t make me excited to pick up the next one. Overall, this just wasn’t for me. But please take my review with a grain of salt, because almost everyone I know loves and adores this story. I also think a big reason why this might not have been a hit for me is also because I had just read A Study in Charlotte and completely fallen in love with that contemporary murder mystery. Maybe I was subconsciously comparing the two? I don’t know, but I just didn’t love this one, friends, even though I really wish that I would have! Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | TwitchContent and trigger warnings for underage drinking, panic attacks, murder, and use of the word cr*zy.Buddy Read with Alexa, Khouloud, Caidyn, Amy & Heather! ❤
2293976075	Three a little disappointed but still determined enough to give a chance to the second book of trilogy stars. Firstly what I liked about this book:Curiosity didn’t kill the cat but intrigued a dog lover like me, mostly I’m really wondering the correlation between the murders in the past and now! So I want to learn more! The series still keep my attention and last half was real page turner. I always enjoy murder mysteries. I liked references of Christie and Conan Doyle books, methods of solving mysteries. What I didn’t like about the book:The worst character development ever:There are bunch of boring characters who have no emotional depths. Our heroine Stevie reminded me of Riverdale’s Betty Cooper who likes to act like Nancy Drew ( who I also dislike so much). I don’t know the reasons of her panic attacks, her hostility to her parents, her obsession to solve the crimes. Maybe we’ll learn more about her family background on the upcoming books. And David, he is number one asshole, who treated her like trash and we learned that he is manipulating liar! I don’t consider him as a hero of the book because of his short time existence at the parts( and he did nothing heroic ! He was mostly annoying, pretentious douchebag) I also disliked Ellie! Not much idea about Janelle! Only Nate gives me hope, he’s a writer suffering from creativity crisis, he is weird, a little nerd, but he was the most trustworthy one who always supported Stevie! He is my hero candidate! And the ending! I don’t think it was real cliffhanger! It made me more pissed off! If he is a real person, I’ll punch David on the face! I wish the ending would be a big revelation or clue about one of the murders !Well at least there are good reviews about the second book! I’ll keep reading and hoping to see more layered character development, twists, surprises and big revelations!bloginstagramfacebooktwitter
3789765358	This was my first YA murder mystery.I will definitely be reading more. Truly Devious follows a true-crime enthusiast and aspiring detective named Stevie who gets accepted into a mysterious school called Ellingham Academy. Years ago, a series of murders signed "Truly, Devious" shocked the community, and Stevie is determined to solve the mystery. My favorite thing about this book was definitely the atmosphere. It was ominous, unsettling, slightly creepy. Something big was always on the verge of happening. Small clues would appear, slight changes in the mood of the room. It's a little too quirky for my tastes (there was a character whose strange attire was described literally every time she entered the room), but I can see how that worked well for the story.And the anxiety rep was perfect. Although Stevie was a very dull narrator with not much of a personality, this felt like an OwnVoices book. Mental health rep is very important, especially in books outside of contemporary fiction where these things aren't usually depicted. Unfortunately, I had to take off a star because of...David. *smiles through the pain* David. I might as well start from the beginning.David is a student at Ellingham who really isn't there for any reason? Everyone else has a particular skill, but he's just there. He has no personality or defining traits (besides being a jerk). He is specifically there to add ~romance~ and ~spice~ and to fail at his only job. Someone literally got killed and Stevie witnessed it. She was an anxious, wound-up wreck.And he decided that was a good time to make out with her. The logic is not apparent. I am not impressed. Added to that, David was angsty and had a tRaGiC bAcKsToRy, which is a terrible combination. This was supposed to make him interesting, I believe.It failed. There was a plot twist related to him in the end that I think was supposed to be shocking, but if you've read any YA at all, you could probably predict it. Besides, he was nothing but rude and dismissive to Stevie and played the victim whenever she called him out. Nobody likes you, David. He's also kind of manipulative, in that he twists all of Stevie's actions - many of which were caused by her anxiety - and makes her look like the villain. He doesn't make an effort to understand her.I am running far, far away. My only other pet peeve was with Ellingham himself. This book switches timelines between the present day and the past, including scenes with Ellingham. His wife and daughter were kidnapped by Truly Devious, who demands a ransom. Like a fool, he gives up all his money before ensuring that his family is alive. He doesn't even bring a police force with him. His actions were all extremely stupid, and it annoyed me to no end. However, I enjoyed this a lot. It was fascinating, dark, mysterious. I'm coming for David with my pitchfork, so once he's disposed of, this book can safely be elevated by another half a star. Until then, this is a 3.5 star read.
2733256181	Love the story, hate the love interest.I read this book in a single day. Granted, I spent almost 7 hours on a train and had no evening plans so it was just me and the book and no one else for a whole day but I'm not gonna complain. It was a good day, and I say that despite hating spending more than 90 minutes on any mode of transport, be it trains or planes.I though it was an extremely good start for a mystery series. The setting is exciting as it is a super rich boarding school for the very talented and smart in the middle of nowhere, secret tunnels included. There's an unsolved kidnapping and murder from almost 100 years ago, there are new friends and interesting teachers and threatening messages written with cutout letters. The characters were fun apart from the guy the main character is supposed to fall in love with who radiates punch-me-in-the-face-because-I'm-a-dick energy and is as cliché as they come. It was highly entertaining if not gay enough for my liking.Find more of my books on Instagram
5357071378	Oh I love Stevie Bell and her brain. This mystery was great and I was not only invested but also trying to guess who could have been truly devious all those years ago. Let me tell you I was wrong about everything and every page had a le gasp moment. Super excited for the sequel because this book ends on a cliffhanger??? Rude I know.
2971124255	Maureen Johnson tells us the story of Ellingham Academy and the students studying there. Albert Ellingham was the founder of this private school. His wife and daughter were kidnapped shortly after the school was opened in the early part of the 20th century. Stevie Bell joins the school now in the present with the plan of solving the above case, which happened many years ago. The use of prolepsis might disconcert some readers, but the enigmatic way in which two conundrums unravel will provide you a ravishing experience. What I learned from this book 1) Why it is important to prevent the witnesses talking to each other? The author tells some secrets of human psychology that many writers are reticent about. Instead of going into the rhetoric of just narrating a murder and chasing the slayer, she delves deep into the psyche of everyone involved in the investigation in an assiduous manner. She tells us how other people's experiences and descriptions can externally influence human memory. "One of the worst things is when witnesses start talking to each other. As soon as you start talking to someone else, the story you have in your head changes. Human memory is rewritten like computer memory. You just get the most updated file." 2) Maureen Johnson on writing. I have read books written by Stephen King, George Orwell, and Deborah Levy on writing. Maureen Johnson's version of it mentioned in this book is simple and equally impressive like the authors above. “Writing is a lot of sitting down... It's a lot of trying things out and screwing up... It's either amazing or it's the worst thing in the world. Sometimes it goes well, and it's all you think about, and then, it's gone. It's like you're taking a ride down a river really fast, and then all of a sudden, there's no water. You're just sitting in a raft, trying to push it along in the mud. And then you've become me." 3) The importance of time in an investigation Time is an important factor in every investigation. The importance of time in an investigation is discussed in an engrossing manner in this book. "What you lack in any investigation is time. With every passing hour, evidence slips away. Crime scenes are compromised by people and the elements. Things are moved, altered, smeared, shifted. Organisms rot. Wind blows dust and contaminants. Memories change and fade. As you move away from the event, you move away from the solution." 4) Why is it important to get up early? The above quote by Benjamin Franklin shows us the importance of getting up early, unless you are a night owl. We can see Stevie telling about the importance of early mornings in this novel. “There is something about early mornings that changes your perceptions subtly. The light is new; no one has put on the defences of the day. All is reset and not quite real yet.” My favourite three lines from this book “Sherlock said, “I consider that a man’s brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose.” “When you have enough power and money, you can dictate the meanings of words.” “Stevie had no fears of the dead. The living, however, sometimes gave her the creeps.” What could have been better? The world-building is done in a detailed manner in the initial part of the book. Some readers may find this part a little boring, and it might take some time for them to get ensnared to the mystery. Rating 4/5 This might be a YA mystery thriller with Dark Academia vibes but it will satisfy any solicitous reader who are equipped for a riveting work of fiction.
2591193734	I thought this was fine, but it definitely felt more middle grade than young adult to me while reading.
2239256000	Um what?!?! I need book 2 right now. The end was such a teaser, things were just starting to come together. I need answers! Haha
2692310990	1.) Truly Devious ★★★★★2.) The Vanishing Stair ★★★★.53.) The Hand on the Wall ★★★★.75-----------------------------------------------HELLO, THIS IS MY NEW OBSESSION.
2296697531	That cliffhanger though.
2365208847	This was..... ridiculous.
2183834701	I love Maureen Johnson. Truly. And I thought this book was fast-paced, captivating and overall exciting and entertaining. But. I'm either an idiot, a complete jerk, or possibly both, because this bugs me: a character is referred to as "Truly Devious" based on a letter which was 'signed' "Truly, Devious". This makes me think that "Truly" was the closing (in lieu of "Sincerely") and "Devious" was the writer, so the character would just be "Devious" or perhaps a tongue-in-cheek "Truly, Devious". Maybe it is part of the story that I missed or is yet to come, or (as previously stated) I'm just an annoying reader.I'm still all-on-board for the sequel and I really and truly do love Maureen Johnson.
2877062267	I buddy-read this with one of my friends who doesn’t read much because I’d heard it was good and HOLY MOTHER OF GOD FOR SOMEONE WHO DOESN’T READ AND SOMEONE ELSE (me) WHO DOESN’T LIKE SUSPENSEFUL MYSTERY THRILLERS WE BOTH REALLY WANT TO GET TO THE SEQUEL RIGHT THIS SECOND!!
2512249505	a main character bold enough to knock herself unconscious when her anxiety gets to be too muchthis book was much better than i was expecting, thank the fucking lord. i've read a couple of maureen johnson's other books and haven't ever been very impressed. this one kind of changed my mind about her.basic premise is that a wealthy 1930s tycoon starts a free school for children in the mountains of vermont where he also hosts small but lavish gatherings with the rich and famous. said tycoon's wife and child are kidnapped. present day true crime lover stevie gets into this free school for kids and decides to solve the mystery.but it's not really that simple. stevie is a little uh... weird and she has to contend with the other strange characters in this boarding school as she tries to uncover what happened so many years ago. oh yeah, and one of her classmates happens to get murdered. no biggie.i thought the plot of this was pretty excellent. i definitely wasn't expecting there to be so much focus on stevie's interactions with the other students and her burgeoning hormonal feelings but it didn't take away from her sleuthing too much imo. i liked that there were scenes from 1936 interspersed throughout the story along with police interviews from tycoon's fascinating friends. and i like that the present day murder is still unsolved, along with the past mystery.the only thing that i didn't love, actually (lol wow that's bad shhh), was stevie herself. i understood her single minded obsession pretty well but her contempt for her parents was pretty hard to believe. also her complete lack of personal boundaries and lack of empathy sort of has me wondering if she has mental health issues beyond just anxiety.but that being said, i'm really really curious to see where the next book takes us. i'll definitely be reading it.ps if you felt the charlotte holmes series was lacking in actual mystery you might find this one more satisfying
3091086064	***want to binge read something good? This trilogy is perfect 😘Picked up this one like two or three times before, it's interesting and all that. Somehow I am not a big mystery reader and I thought that the book would go on forever. And then I thought the anxiety issues and the panic attacks of the main character weren't handled well when it comes to the attitude of the adult characters towards these.The first half is a bit too slow for me.Other than that, this was a perfect read. I absolutely loved the characters, my most favourite being Nate! Ah, he's so damn precious. I would love to steal all his T-shirts someday and we know why.The characters are interesting. A few are plain obnoxious; most of them are quirky, nerdy and geeky...and my most fav kinds😘The atmosphere of the story is not that spooky or dark even if it's all about solving an 80 year old murder mystery. Somehow it just pulla you in and yes, you cannot go back to your normal life until you finish up all the three books. (I am just taking a break to write this unorderly, short review while reading book 2.) Yes, the writing style, the plot, the weird characters and the cliffhangers: EVERYTHING works for this one. And you will never find yourself that happy as when you start immediately the second book. Damn, the second book is going so good!Ah, another thing I didn't like. The unwelcomed romance. Nah. It just didn't work for me. Too insta. Too impulsive. Too not needed at this point. Too out of place. But the first book is good nevertheless. It's the humour parts here and there that keeps me going on, especially when Nate is there. Damn, he's my nerd😘(...and this is why I fail miserably at writing reviews for thrillers and mystery books😁)
6931112403	i hope whoever recommended this to me falls off a cliff with this damned book burning in their hands.
2041186443	That cliffhanger though
2219168705	YOU CAN'T WRITE A MYSTERY WITH NO ENDING.There are two mysteries introduced in this plodding slog (there is no real story in the present-day timeline until well past the halfway point), and by the end, neither of them are solved. This was a waste of time.
2134505440	I received an advanced reader copy via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest reviewWHAT DID I JUST READ?! How did that ending happen? Vague answers, hints at something conclusive, but left with almost...nothing? I’m so confused and kind of pissed off. What did I just read? Was I truly waiting for a semi-decent conclusion when all I got was a “to be continued”? I get that it’s the first in a series, but seriously, what the actual living f*%# did I read? At least give us a decent conclusion! The build up was good and the main character had her intriguing oddities, but that conclusion knocked down my rating because wtf. I feel so cheated. I feel so damn cheated right now. I feel like this book—this whole series—could have been finished in a couple of more chapters. Man. I’m going to bed, I don’t have any more patience for this. Happy reading!
6707405590	mhmm….
2662398189	This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book Prescription Actual Rating: 3.5 stars “You have to take things as they are, not how you hear they’re supposed to be.”🌟 I usually read contemporaries or mystery/ thriller novels when I want to take a break from the Fantasy genre! This was like 60% Mystery and 40% Contemporary and I am not sure if that was a good combination.🌟 The writing style was good, not too poetic, not too bland! It was right for a story of this kind. I think what the author was trying to achieve here is to show us the writing process for a mystery kind of novel which is something I appreciate as I am trying to learn more about writing. “When you have enough power and money, you can dictate the meanings of words.” 🌟 The idea seems interesting because it is a school for the brightest thinkers, inventors, and artists according to the synopsis! I expected the mystery part to be a little bit better to be honest.🌟 The characters are mediocre in my opinion. I wasn’t a big fan of any of them. I expected to have more mature and smart characters from my imagination of what this could be. Like the characters in Death Note for example!🌟 The author looks like a big fan of Agatha Christie and Sherlock Holmes! I loved the Agatha references but since the author is well versed in those stories, she should know that a huge part of their success is because they are fast, short and to the point. The mystery in this book does not happen until after half of the book and it is not even solved!🌟 I also left reading this closer to the release date of the second book because many said that the cliffhanger was good and they can’t wait! I expected something more from all the hype tbh!🌟 Summary: Reading this book was a strange experience, not much happened as I expected to for a mystery novel, but it was intriguing at the same time that I finished it quite fast. Maybe I prefer short, fast reads as Agatha’s books and I don’t know why this is a trilogy too?! I will continue book 2 but will go with different expectations!
4625711789	it would be truly devious to not read this book
2841387361	Stevie and her way of overanalyzing things reminds me of my tired brain trying to grasp the concept of earth on a Monday while sitting in class.
4754677298	This one was just “okay” for me. 😬 It’s definitely got that Agatha Christy feel, but with some new hip YA feels to it. If I’m being honest, it didn’t grip me and I don’t feel that pull to read the next. 🙄 it’s not bad, but not earth shattering either… just okay. 🤷🏼‍♀️
4083755609	Crime books are cool till you feel like Agatha Christie or E. Lockhart. Otherwise, they make you feel stupid because no, you haven't thought about the butler with a knife made of ice.It's like math: in the exact moment you understand it, you start to love it. There are two types of reader: the one who love crime books because he already knows everything (who, why, when, where), and sometimes he even has to try to figure out what happened; and the one who read them without a clue of what's going on and why, but the story is nice. And then there are the others: people who try once and hate it until they find THE crime book. It's all about finding the right book, and Truly Devious is really close to being it.Since the first sentence, I knew I’d loved Stevie because we're basically the same person, minus the really good instinct - which I don't have. Serial killers are our thing, and I can actually imagine the two of us solving murders together.So. Stevie is amazing, Nate is kind of a loner but this is why we love him, I get why she wants to be friends with Janelle, David is weird and I need some explanations in the next book, I never liked Ellie and Hayes was an asshole. We can't say it isn't a heterogenic group of people. Also, we agree that the most impressive thing is the school, right? God, what I would do to spend a semester in there. It's like an expensive and really hard university, without all those people and the careless professors.The elephant in the room is that there are two mysteries in this story and none was solved. I mean, it should be a basic thing to do.Maybe it’s too much to think she would have solved a 75-year-old mystery without any new clue or access to the places of that night, but she did figure out what happens to one of her schoolmates. Kind of. There is a missing piece that bothers me very much, and that open ending didn't help at all.Who did it? Why? What actually happened? There is something wrong with all of that and no more pages.At first, the story is slow. Too slow. A little bit of Stevie’s story, a little bit of the Ellighams’. Pages are going through but nothing is happening.Then, all of a sudden, something does happen and there is a case to solve. It looks like it’s solved, but it isn't. And that’s it. The book ends in the middle of a metaphorical storm and we don't know what will happen to the characters or the case. Also, I’d like to say Maureen Johnson is a good writer, she certainly knows how to write about murders and riddles, but she should focus more on the romantic part.If you wanna include it - since it's a crime book -, you need to do it right. Nobody here wants to blow this thing up for a flat romantic relationship.All I can do now is wish that the next book will be good. It better be.↠ 4 stars
2134925647	I didn't know this would have a sequel I AM SHOOK. With most books that switch back and forth between timelines, there is usually one I like more than the other. That wasn't the case here. Between present day and the past, we were presented TWO intriguing murder mysteries to solve. Though I didn't love the conclusion here and felt we weren't exactly given enough clues to solve the present day mystery until the very end, I literally gasped out loud no less than three times while reading, and that's for sure a five star book to me.
6554451587	3.75 ⭐️⭐️⭐️
2609895916	His voice was deep and smooth and rich, like what gravy might sound like if gravy could talk.👀Did you just cringe? Wow, that quote was...something 👀.If you’ve been considering reading this one, I’m sure now that you’re indecision has been cleared up. You’re welcome. And I wouldn’t even call that ending a cliffhanger. That’s just straight up like someone ripped the last major chunk of the book off at the height of the climax. I’m kinda pissed about that. I’ve been dragged through 400 pages of “mystery” that was starting to drive me mad and right when it was about to be solved.....“TO BE CONTINUED....”Really? Really, really?
3486997062	3 stars"where do you look for someone who's never really there?always on a staircase but never on a stair”synopsis: truly devious follows crime fanatic stevie bell as she starts her first year at ellingham acadamy, a school famous for the murder and kidnapping of the founder's wife and daughter.trigger warnings:anxiety, panic attacks, light violence, deathoverall thoughts:okay, so im not a fan of mysteries. like at all. and this book somewhat changed my mind. i actually enjoyed the mystery aspect of this book, which is very suprising. the dark acadamia vibe was really fun to read about and some of the characters were great. this book is told in two seperate parts. in one part we are following stevie and her friends at school as she tries to solve the ellingham mystery, and in the other we are following the characters and story of the original mystery. i found the chapters that were written during the time of the crime to be very slow and kinda unnecessary. i would have preferred if this story was told only during present time, but i still enjoyed the book. also this book reminded me of turtles all the way downcharacters:stevie:i loved stevie. i thought that she was a really well developed and her relationships with the other characters were very fun to read about. she was really observant, which was so refreshing since a lot of young adult protaganists are literally oblivious to everything going on around them. i also thought her anxiety and panic attacks were beautifully written.nate:OKAY I LOVED NATE SO MUCH. HE DESERVED MORE SCREEN TIME... screen time? page time? I DONT REALLY KNOW. ALL I KNOW IS THAT NATE IS LITERALLY MY SPIRIT ANIMAL. there was this one quote, i dont remember exactly what it was, but he said something along the lines of "i have a limited emotional vocabulary."i literally fell in love on the spot. AND HIS FRIENDSHIP WITH STEVIE TOO. IT WAS SO WHOLESOME SKJFDKLASHFKQEQ. anyways if you couldn't already tell, nate was my favorite character.david:right. so i hate david with a passion!!! like he was literally the worst character ever. he was so shallow. it aggravated me to no end. he was the kind of character, that if done right could be iconic (like cardan or kaz), but if done wrong, just comes across as asshole. hopefully we see some MAJOR character development in the next two books. janelle:her character was pointless and had no personality but okay.ellie:i really liked ellie the first 75% of the book and now i dont know how to feel...while i loved stevie and nate, i feel like the other characters were underdeveloped. it was clear that johnson tried to make them "qUiRkY" and ended up creating surface level characters with no depth.things i liked:- although its only the first book, i can tell that this mystery has many layers. i have lots of respect for mystery authors who create lengthy, complex storylines and i think that maureen johnson may be one of these authors!- i mentioned this earlier but they way anxiety was depicted in this story was very accurate. i liked how the anxiety was a small part of the book. yes, anxiety is obviously something that many people struggle with, but people that have anxiety also have generally normal lives and i think a lot of books with mental illnesses forget that. (i dont know if solving a murder mystrey is considered "normal" but still.)- im a sucker for boarding school books, it was one of the reasons i picked this book up and i was not dissapointed. i got like mauraders fanfiction vibes from this story. and i love mauraders fanfiction, so that was a compliment.- i could not put this book during the last 25%.- the riddles- nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. nate and stevie's friendship. things i didn't like:- the romance was terrible. the characters had no connection. they went from like never talking to each other to making out??? i like for my books to have a romance aspect, but if you're not gonna write it well then don't put it in.- the history/old chapters were so boring.- my biggest issue with this book, and the reason i had to knock of two stars, was the writing. it read like a middle grade book, but it had some mature content, which im assuming is what made it YA. the writing had no flow and felt very childish.just look at these quotes:"the glinting thing was handcuffs, sort of like the ones her uncle the cop had."this has no flow and just does not sound good?? where is the editor??"his voice was deep and smooth and rich, like what gravy might sounds like if gravy could talk. (which, luckily, it can not. gravy might have a nice voice, but the conversation would probably be dull.)"*insert eye roll*was this supposed to be funny?because it failed miserably.i’m not laughing.okay, so the writing and romance could have been much better, but the plot and some of the characters were spectacular. i will be continuing on with the series, and hope to see some improvement.if you are a fan of mystery novels, you will definitely like this storyline!!my reviews for:book one: truly deviousbook two: the vanishing stairbook three: the hand on the wall
1683931610	Schools may be famous for many things: academics, graduates, sports teams.They are not supposed to be famous for murders. Albert Ellingham created a school that knows no limits. He wanted learning to be a game for those who attended. Tuition is free and everyone learns at their own pace. It's a dream for anyone to attend. Although, shortly after it opened, Ellingham's wife and daughter were kidnapped and never found. A mysterious riddle listing ways to murder had appeared a week prior signed only "Truly, Devious." It remains unsolved.Stevie Bell was accepted into Ellingham Academy with no other specialty than being a true-crime junkie. She has plans to solved the great Ellingham mystery that no one before her has been able to. Of course, no one else this adamant as solving the case has had access to the Academy grounds as a student. There's a cast of characters surrounding Stevie, most of which being her housemates. I wasn't exactly feeling a lot of the characters besides Stevie. She's got a good head on her shoulders, is inquisitive and smart. I do wish her anxiety had been displayed better instead of feeling like a passing detail. I spent the majority of the time trusting no one as I waited for the present-day mystery to, well, present itself. It's a little over 50% when we really get introduced to said mystery.The story flips back and forth between 1936 when the kidnapping occurs and present day. We don't get enough clues to solve either mystery on our own. At least, as of now that appears to be the case because all is not solved at the end. Things are still up in the air waiting to be solved.I prefer my mysteries to have some sort of conclusion, but this book is clearly the first of a series (as of right now, a trilogy). It's setting things up for both mysteries running throughout - one being in present day, the other set in the past in the 1930s - while also introducing us to the series' characters. And, of course, the setting. Also being a bit of a character within the novel as an extension of Albert Ellingham and the kind of person he was loving puzzles and games, so of course the boarding school grounds have hidden nooks, tunnels, hiding spots and is a maze in and of itself.I'm torn on if I liked this enough or am more bothered by the way the novels are split up. I would've liked a conclusion here to some extent. Instead, the mystery feels underdeveloped. I think I'll still read the second book because I'm intrigued enough to continue. I'd like to know what happened back in 1936 a bit more than I originally expected. Maybe this would've worked better as a standalone.
2203654823	I enjoyed this, but I feel like the audiobook was definitely the wrong way to go for me. It was too hard for me to keep details straight and I was mostly just confused. Definitely going to re-read this one in physical form before the next book comes out so I can be better prepared!
4992736842	➳ 2.5 ☆! 🍵⤷ i feel bad, but the pacing was NOT IT 😔 for once i get what it feels like to dislike a popular book ₊‧꒰my thoughts꒱ ‧₊⤷ it had a promising premise and it was super cozy for fall! other than that, it felt like a chore to read. i was bored, yall i read 400 PAGES, for a MYSTERY BOOK. 😭 look i know i couldve dnf'd, I KNOW, but i wanted to see the ending... and its satisfying to mark this off 😀 anyways im just stubborn and i wish for better.. on the other hand i can see why some people may like it, and im happy for them! maybe in another life time. the reason its not a 1 because it was bearable. but overall not worth it imo! i liked our mc, stevie, though. ALSO THE WAY I DIDNT EVEN GET TO KNOW THE MYSTERY, you have to read the second book. which is not happening! goodluck everyone! ALSO DAVID?? am i supposed to like him or what----------🍵| ‧꒰ა preview! ໒꒱ ‧this is one of those series that ive been wanting to get into for the longest time!! so we'll see how this goes <3 i dont have any high HIGH hopes, but i want the ending to surprise me okay? thats all i ask 😭🙏
3702024450	I NEED BOOK 2 NOWdude i want to listen to true crime podcasts with stevie. she’s like 100,000,000x smarter than me and i love her😭
2133783377	Yep, still like this book and the characters, on to book 2 I am... again!‐-----------------------------------Rereading so I can continue on with the series. I've read up until book 2, but when it was a new release lol it's been a long time coming, but I'm in the mood to get back into it. Murder and boarding school here I go!------------------------------------It's a miracle, a mystery book that legit kept me guessing all the way through. I'm always guessing things too quickly on mysteries, so this was a breath of fresh air.I'm so happy I was this engaged with the story that I'm not even mad that Truly Devious leaves many important answers for its sequel. Maybe I'm just chill because we're so close to the release in January.I don’t know why, but I was kind of really tense reading this. It's not a creepy book per say, but maybe the setting of the school with that combination of isolation, woods, secret passages and the felling of imminent threat managed to freak me out a bit.Can't wait for book 2!
6191869884	all i have to say is that i read this book and had a reading slump so bad that i didn't read for almost 2 years <3
2681486899	Ich hatte hohe Erwartungen an die Geschichte, die total erfüllt wurden. Der schreibstil ist recht eigensinnig, aber passend zur Story und Stevie. Der Leser wird schön in die Gegebenheiten auf der Academy und seine Bewohner eingeführt. Wir lernen Stevie und ihre Eigenarten kennen und auch lieben - ich zu mindestens. Die Rückblenden ins Jahr 1937 ergänzen die Geschichte. Zwar wird nicht alles aufgelöst, aber das wesentlich wird im ersten Band der Reihe geklärt, wobei mir das etwas plötzlich vorkam. Ich bin schon sehr gespannt auf die Fortsetzung!!
2146937024	Omg!!!!! So good. But the ending. Literally screaming out loud. My full review will be on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
3659633257	❝ With every second, her hope slipped a bit further, until she was scrabbling at the edge of hope, trying to gain a hold. And then she felt herself lose contact. ❞4.75/5 :)SO MANY THINGS HAPPENED IN THE LAST FEW PAGES!! This is even a bigger cliffhanger than The Inheritance Games !! 2 murders left unsolved… you have got to be kidding me… need to read the second book ASAP! *internally screaming* ~complete quotes collection~ First things first: NATE! I was seriously shipping him and Stevie, but I have a feeling she’s gonna end up with David… Nate is just so precious! I wish I have someone like him in my life🥺Ellingham Academy sounds AMAZING. (other than the deaths part but still AMAZING!) Just imagine living there in a MANSION with other mansions around you! It’s like a boring school but way better and bigger. You get a whole room to yourself and the whole “mansion” only has like 6 people living in it! AND IT’S ALL FREE!!! You go there FOR. FREE. Seriously, how rich are they right?!Okay I have said enough, now onto the actual writing stuff~The then and now was really well organized and not confusing at all. Giving us glimpse of the past while telling the story about Stevie in present time.I loved the different kinds of people at the school and their different personalities. I thought it all fit really well with the story.The only thing is that this book made me feel dumb and without a purpose in life lmao… Everyone in this school has a talent and something they’re good at while I’m just sitting here cOntemplating life… :/The riddles in the book was also something to think about for me and they played a huge role in this book. Hopefully they tell me the answer to the last mysterious riddle because I am seriously loosing braincells…Here’s one for y’all:What serves on either side, and if you wish to hide, may protect you from your foe, or show him where to go?I can usually somewhat predict these murder mysteries pretty well some point in the book, but with this book, I had no idea THAT was going to happen and what the characters were hiding. 【IN SHORT; This book was intriguing and really had the element of suspense in it. Highly recommend especially to those who love mysteries and thrillers! 】 "Once upon a time, a young girl named Dottie from New York City came to Ellingham Academy and ended up dead from a knock on the head. Once upon another time, an actor from Florida came to Ellingham Academy and found out dry ice was not so nice. Third time’s the charm. A girl from Pittsburgh came to Ellingham Academy and she wanted to see a dead body. She got her wish. That same girl snatched victory from the jaws of defeat and got to stay at Ellingham Academy, but then, worried that defeat might be hungry, promptly fed the victory right back to its gaping jaws. That girl had a taste of something she didn’t know that she wanted or needed, and she had messed it all up."12/28/20━━━━━━━━━━━༻༻❁༺༺━━━━━━━━━━━Stevie: talks for an entire paragraph explaining somethingDavid: “…what?”12/27/20━━━━━━━━━━━༻༻❁༺༺━━━━━━━━━━━“You know i cant let you leave…”DUN DUN DUN12/21/20
7402553062	𝟑🌟!!! I had heard so many great things about this series, particularly about this book, and even saw comparisons to A Good Girl’s Guide to Murder. However, don’t go in expecting it to be similar to the AGGTM series because it’s definitely not. While I was intrigued by the storyline and enjoyed the fact that the book is set at a boarding school (such a fun setting!), I found the pacing to be incredibly slow. The writing style was also different from what I had expected, which made it hard for me to stay fully engaged at times. Despite this, I couldn’t put the book down because I was invested in the plot.One of the highlights of this book was Stevie. As a true crime junkie, she’s a fascinating and endearing character, and I really grew to love her. I found myself rooting for her throughout the book. As for the other characters, I liked Janelle, but David? I absolutely hated him. He was so rude and cruel to Stevie, and the urge to punch him in the face was very real. I still don’t trust him and remain suspicious of his intentions. Hayes didn’t do much for me, though I thought he was rather insignificant, while Nate was a bit of a loner but shared such a sweet bond with Stevie that I couldn’t help but enjoy their friendship. I don’t know how I feel about the romance plot in this series considering I wanted Stevie to end up with someone else.One major downside for me was that the murder isn't solved by the end of the book, which was frustrating. However, the ending itself was a bit unexpected, even though I had kind of guessed it. Overall, while this book wasn’t a complete hit for me, I did have a fun time reading it.It’s not a bad book, but I can’t say it’s one I’ll rave about either.ˏˋ°•*⁀➷𝐏𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝: Started this book a few days ago but didn’t continue it due to my exam!! But I’m done with exams for a bit so I’m picking this back up😭💗
4345408781	Whenever our family read criticisms of spectacular concerts, we concluded that free tickets numbed the perspective of newspaper critics. Many undeniably original books garner flat reactions. If authors are skilled, the years I wait to afford physical books, is worth the elation they bring me. It does not matter that these protagonists are teenagers, given their mature campus setting. Even though the original question was a crime and new ones occurred, Maureen Johnson nonetheless riveted me with the enchanting, clue solving creativity I search for. She laced it with compassion that I have seen no one else mention: this series’ principal theme.Albert Ellingham offered a free school for creative thinkers, which endeared denizens to him. The disappearance of his wife and child melted everyone’s hearts. Stevie grew up wanting to know what happened out of compassion, developed expertise in the Ellingham’s story, and honed an aptitude for clue solving. That dream came true when she was admitted to their remote school, whose sad terrain held the answers for 82 years.Does this not electrify the interest of any heart? Stevie could be me. This is how to write a mystery whose answers we want to know! When authors craft stories in wholly original ways, they lose people who see what they expect to and miss what is unique. I can only rave about the ingeniousness of building up to an old mystery and not dismissing it in 300 pages! That would trivialize it. Respecting the tragedy is as monumental as it should be.For me, superfluous plots like romance, fall away from a story’s emotional, powerful centre. “Truly Devious” is so compelling, it immediately joins my favourite series of all time. My spouse bought me the rest in first editions! I am savouring each of them as personal treats.
2280522022	2.5 starsStephanie (aka Stevie) Bell just been admitted to the prestigious Ellingham Academy. Ellingham is a different sort of school where tuition is free, learning is a game and everyone learns at their own pace. Being a true crime junkie, Stevie is set on solving the kidnapping of Mrs. Ellingham and her daughter Alice, which happened shortly after Albert Ellingham opened the school in 1936. First though, she has to adapt to her new home and housemates, her work load and the apparent return of 'Truly Devious' (the person responsible for the Ellingham's unsolved crime). Stevie is now in the midst of a crime, can she solve it?I had high expectations of this book but they were unwarranted. While I like the premise, the narrative simply did not deliver. Ellingham Academy is a home to bright students that excel in different areas. With inventors, artists and thinkers among its students, this academy is a hub of activity. But what Ellingham is most known for is the kidnapping of the wife and daughter of the founder. A riddle signed by 'Truly Devious' is sent to the Ellingham's home and a few days later the wife and daughter dissapear, never to be seen again. The school continued despite the crime and the case eventually went cold. Stevie is confident that she can solve the crime until 'Truly Devious' strikes again. Working with a past and present storyline, the novel brings the reader into the secluded school. I thought the murder set in the past was slightly better but as a whole found both murder mysteries underwhelming. The cliffhanger ending was not much better. I really wish Johnson would have provided more information regarding the first murder. As it was, the whole plot felt rather incomplete.Characterization also was lacking. While Sevie stands out, the rest of the cast seems to be there just for the sake of being there. The characters were not memorable and it was sometimes hard to tell them apart. It seems like a broad amount of themes were covered and none of them well enough. I thought the riddles and 'Truly Devious' was a good touch and added an eerieness to the narrative. Having said that, this book could use editng. There was too much going on and not enough going on at the same time, if that makes sense. I was never invested in this book. As for the sequel, not sure if I am tempted to continue on with this series. I am more annoyed at the ending than intrigued.
3274723582	2.25 starsI am severely underwhelmed. Maybe I had too big expectations going in, but let's be real: the premise is amazing. A mystery, a shady school for gifted students, and a girl who is determined to solve it all? Yes please! Unfortunately, it was very very underwhelming. We follow Stephanie (Stevie) Bell, a true-crime fanatic, who is accepted into Ellingham Academy. For her final project, Stevie is determined to solve the cold, unsolved case of the Ellingham Acadamey murders/kidnappings of 1936. But things quickly take a turn to the left... will Stevie be able to figure it all out?First let's discuss the good. I loved the flash-backs, FBI-reports, and interviews. There is just something about learning about the Ellingham case that truly transfixed me. Although I was a bit agitated that the Ellingham case wasn't solved by the end, I do find this a curious approach for a mystery series, and one that I've never seen before. For this reason only am I continuing with the series. I want to know how the case will be dealt with in later books. I also want more flashbacks :)Something that wasn't great was the romance. First off, it came out of nowhere. Two awkward conversations and next thing you know Stevie and David are making out. I don't know where this is going. It is really awkward and not realistic. There is a line in the book where they determine that David is attracted to her because he likes annoying her and Stevie is attracted to him because he annoys her... wut. Newsflash. This is not how humans work. Sure, teenagers and hormones blah blah blah... but really? The way this was done was just really cringey. I must say, though, it was steamy so if you're into that, here ya go. (view spoiler)[Also what is up with David lying all the time. You don't just say "my parents are dead". Sure, you can be embarrassed of your dad, but you don't just say he is DEAD. (hide spoiler)]I think I would have liked this story a lot more if we weren't info and character-dumped in the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, get out your notebooks for this one! Up until I got to the middle of the novel, I was super confused. I kept having to think back to who was who because I genuinely didn't remember. I'm not saying having a large cast of characters isn't good, I'm saying, don't throw 20 characters at us in 5 pages and expect us to remember them all.Truly Devious is a book with a promising premise, and a not-so-great execution. I hope that The Vanishing Stair will expand on what is going on with the Ellingham case and fix the love-story.--------------------------------------- Books in series: #1 Truly Devious: ★★.25#2 The Vanishing Stair: ★★.25#3 The Hand on the Wall: ★★
3055669855	UPDATE 29/05/2021 - Review addedWell this is a fun mystery story with some entertaining banter between the friends. The main issue I had was the pacing. It was quite slow and positively dragged in parts. I think it was because there wasn't enough connection between the historic murders and the need for the current day students to solve it. Well not enough to draw me in anyway. Still entertaining and I will see where book two takes the story.3.5 Stars down to 3 on rereadUPDATE 23/06/2021 - Rereading in preparation to read book 2 and 3!3.5 Stars
2298202245	I am too old for this book, so obviously I loved it! I have enjoyed many YA books, I have enjoyed many murder mysteries. But as far as I’m aware, YA murder mysteries are not a *thing*. Or they weren’t for me until I read this, anyway!This book was much better than it sounded. When I read the blurb I wasn’t convinced. I’d never read anything by Maureen Johnson and so I read the first in the Shades of London series, which had more reviews and was cheaper. (Truly Devious is a recent release). I thoroughly enjoyed it, a YA supernatural series. So then I could give this book a go.I really liked Stevie and the other characters. This mystery is still unsolved but it is a mystery within a mystery, similar in conception to Magpie Murders by Anthony Horowitz.There was something very cosy about the whole set up- the 1930s nod to Agatha Christie, the boarding school vibe , which seemed very Enid Blyton (Mallory Towers), the unique folly-esque setting...Recommended.January ‘19Re-readEven better when you know you have The Vanishing Stair ready to go on your kindle!
2868857413	1.5 Stars(D: Dreadful, or more likely Disappointment)first DNF of 2020Warning: Ranting reviewUsually when I don’t like a book I wanted to like, I rant too much & being critical.I’m not angry, I’m just disappointed.& I only give this book 2 stars, because I rarely give 1 (because each book had an enormous attempt behind it to be written & be published.) & to those ones I really don't care or absolutely HATE.I like mysteries & crime. (Sherlocked forever!) I like the unsolved cases & I like to read about dangers happening to school kids & the riddles they try to solve.so why not liking this one, you ask?My problems with this book were in three parts: uninteresting childish Characters, boring Plot & the Writing style.🔼 Because the environment (the Academy) was actually very cool..That’s also a possibility that I might be too old for this, but I can't be sure, as there's many Great middle grades I still like. (& this is a YA, not a middle grade)● I couldn’t bear the writing style & the voices. (Half of it is the translator’s fault too, explained below.)Too much descriptions.Too many jumping without any explanation or order. I was confused at first 50 pages, when it was happening in the past & suddenly, the next chapter, without any warning, we jumped into present.& I think the author tried very hard to be funny but alas, she failed. (At least, it didn’t make me laugh)The voices of the narration & the characters, sounded Childish & whiny; even when the scene was too serious or occurring in 1936, or it was an interrogation…🔼 Though 'the Riddles' were well-created.● annoying Characters & relationshipsThe moment I started to care about that one character, the POV & the scene changed so suddenly I didn’t know where I was & who the newcomers were (& I didn't care about either of them) & what year I was in. (that character could’ve been the most interesting one in the whole book.)I couldn’t relate to any other character after that. Stevie & her family were annoying (Stevie was a whiny fussing brat!) Ellie was weird & I didn’t care about Nate or Janelle. David was mysterious (which means I even might like him? I don't know, I can't make up my mind.)I also kept asking myself how old they were; they sounded like 12? But later I found out they were around 16-17!Charlie was probably the most interesting one, but not that major (or even not that minor!) to have much role in the story.& sometimes the conclusion Stevie thought was very irrational, according to her sharp personality who knew things by only seeing (Gees! Sherlock!), it was too out of character & idiotic. (Like you know, second years don’t join the Academy introduction tour…) & in general, she was annoying, nosy, selfish & very immature.& the relationships (including friendships) between characters were raw, unrealistic (or I don’t know, maybe I can even say 'incomplete'?)I couldn’t find out the friendships between other characters out of the so-called trio. (which truthfully I can’t call them a trio as friendship at all, as they didn’t talk much or discuss or joke around.)The romance (or maybe I should call it ‘the kiss’) was so sudden & without any preparation. I’ve read somewhere if you can’t show the relationship other than ‘kissing’ you’re not a romance writer & I agree. There must be some preparations, expressions, blushes, glances, looking aways, stuttering & thoughts, before two people reach their first kiss.It was tasteless, I couldn’t feel anything, not about the romance, nor friendships & not even the mystery.● The whole plot was going on in a boring, flat & SloW PaCe way & sometimes ridiculous!just making more questions not solving one or make us closer to the answer. just pouring more problems into the mess without any progress.& the story was SLOW!It could’ve been more exciting & thrilling (according to the synopsis), but the story had been dragged & felt very bad middle-grade ish (I blame the voice of the narration)& I believe, in a few times, the reasons why they (I mean the trial & the court & the police, aside from stupid Stevie & other kids) did that, was very unreasonable & naïve. The investigations & verdict was not truly like this.& why Stevie didn't tell anyone (by that, I mean the adults) about that late-night note!? I was waiting for her to tell & they discuss it, but nuuuuuuu, she had to tell no one & went with her own boring lines! for someone who likes mystery & obsessed with 'Truly Dvious' Case she was very unfocused & stupid.• Translator’s fault!: ترجمه مزخرف بود.و مترجم خواسته خوشمزه بازی دربیاره آخر جمله ها و تشابهاتی که به شوخی گفته شده، علامت تعجب گذاشته، چون احتمالا خودشون خیلی خوششون اومده؛ ولی این کار درست مثل اینه که آدم وقتی جوک میگه، به جوک خودش بخنده. و این جمله ها اگرچه ممکن بود با یک نقطه ساده به نظرم خنده دار بیان. (قول نمیدم، ولی ممکن بود. حداقل تا حدی.) ولی این علامت تعجب های بیجا، فقط منو عصبانی کردن. علامت تعجب توی دیالوگ ها لازمه تا نحوه هیجانات یا ترس کاراکتر رو نشون بده، ولی به نظر من، تو بخش راوی یه کتاب، واقعا کارو خراب میکنه. ضمنا مترجم خیلی از گیومه ها در جاهایی که لازم نبود استفاده کردن. نه دیالوگ بودن، نه اون کلمه ها معنی خاصی می رسوندن، نه نکته خاصی داشتن. اینم فک کنم مثل همون علامت تعجبا نشان از عکس العمل مترجم به کتاب بود..پ.ن. با اصل کتاب چک کردم و تو اصلش این همه علامت تعجب یا گیومه سبز نشده بود.(خیلی چیزها هم اشتباه ترجمه شده بود یا اصلا در متن نیود. (و منظورم سانسور نیستمثلاOh, the magic of dudes. If only they bottled it.شده بود: خدایا، چرا مردها همیشه از درون یک جام سحرآمیز به دنیا می نگرند!؟(که نه تنها درست نیست، بلکه هیچ معنی ای هم نداره (اینجا از اون جاهاییه که اصلش باحالهضمنا من با غلط املایی مشکل دارم و این کتاب پر از اونا بود.If I was the person I’d been a year ago, I probably finish this book even though reading it was agonizing, but present me decide to DNF books when they don’t please me & if I read them more than 40-50% I will rate & review it & add it to my challenge, because I really read it, though halfway & not completely.& in this case, I actually read the whole book in a skipping way, not word by word, but by scanning pages & finding out what was important to the story as I was curious.I don't know why it felt like I was reading this for months? it apparently drained my energy.all these factors are more reason to put this series aside.I'm not planning on reading the rest.
2307069910	Ughhhh cliffhangers are the worstI really enjoyed reading this, I have more questions than answers right now, and I need the next book ASAP pls I really loved the setting and Ellingham Academy and the flash backs were a brilliant touch!
2584730492	4 starsThe hype around this novel might be a bit much, yes, but Truly Devious is a really great example of how a YA mystery/thriller can be done well. Writing: ★★★★Villain(s)/Reveal(s): ★★★ 1/2 Plot: ★★★★★One thing that I completely, utterly agree on about this book is that it is unputdownable. What a great main character, and what a good plot. It's not the most ingenious plot in the world, but its boarding school setting, its split timeline with the 1930s, and its main character's drive to be a detective really propelled this story along. I loved the process of reading it, even as certain things kept it from perfection. Ellingham Academy is a famous private school known for its genius students. It was founded by Albert Ellingham, a fan of devious mysteries, games, and learning for the sake of learning. He make a boarding school with hidden rooms, twists, and turns. He never expected his school to be used for a murder. "Truly Devious," a pen name, kidnaps Ellingham's wife and daughter and leaves cryptic riddles in their wake. Forever unsolved, the case goes down in American history.Stevie Bell, a private detective in training, decides to apply to the school to solve the cold case. Shocked to be chosen as one of the elite, she finds herself in the midst of school politics, rich kids with problems, and a lot of things to observe. When someone is found dead on Ellingham's campus, Stevie realizes "Truly Devious" might not be done with their crimes...I really appreciated this novel's readability. As someone who loves Agatha Christie, I enjoyed reading this modern version of Poirot with her nods to the master himself. It is a great gateway series for teens who would (hopefully) be encouraged to pick up more in the genre after reading this book. Stevie as a character really sold it for me. She has anxiety—and it actually manifests. It's really nice to see panic attacks and the like represented in teen fiction, as I was once a teen that had panic attacks and, as I never saw them represented in TV or books, had zero idea what was "wrong" with me. It's nice to see that normalized and portrayed. Overall, a nice solid start to the series. Not a particularly inspired ending, BUT as it's a series I hold out hope for a more epic reveal to come—Truly Devious isn't yet solved.Blog | Instagram
3005413265	First Read: October 2019, Rating: 4 starsSecond Read: November 2020, Rating: 4 starsEllingham Academy is the dream location for budding creatives, entrepreneurs, geniuses, and innovators. It was also once the setting for an infamous abduction and series of murders. These were solved long ago but for new student, Stevie, not accurately enough.This was a compelling thriller and the eerie isolated academic setting meant I was captivated, initially and throughout. This opened with an sinister scene that set the tone for all future events and I loved the contrast between past and present mysteries and witnessing them both collide. I was forever ten steps behind the pace of the narrative and unable to determine who was bound for a fatal end, who was integral to the mystery, and who needed to be avoided at all costs.I also fell in literary love with protagonist, Stevie. She provided a great role-model for younger readers and I especially appreciated the accurate representation of mental health and the coping mechanism this instructed, through her struggle. She was feminist, nihilistic, deeply intelligent, and independent. Her personal struggles were part of her story but never dominated and I loved everything she stood for, overcame, and strove to achieve.
3216463244	ACTUAL RATING 2.5 STARS (?)While I initially enjoyed learning about Stevie's character, in her heartbreakingly relatable representation of anxiety and her interest in true crime, along with the diverse array of students who attended this uniquely structured academy, the plot of this novel was incredibly slow-moving in a way I could not enjoy (as someone who normally enjoys a novel that takes its time to unfold before my eyes). A novel normally has plot points, steps that are hit, developments that are made to keep the reader gripped, invested in the story, but I could only count about two actual plot points in this novel that kept the story moving. The rest was meandering around a mystery that had no actual development. I wish I was invested in this mystery, but I truly am not, nor was I interested in the forced romance that blossomed between characters who hardly had any chemistry. It felt as if the romance was inserted to lighten the mood of this dark tale, but instead, it felt awkward and clunky. So, I don't see myself reading the sequels any time soon.
3833649530	thinking about this book pisses me off so much. concept? check, 10/10. execution? oh boy where do i even begin.i always feel weird writing negative reviews so i just feel the need to clarify that i don't have anything against the author and readers who did enjoy or even love this. now that that has been said, let's get into this.it's been over two years since i read this book and the fact that i still remember EVERYTHING is not a good thing. the reason i remember reading it so vividly is because...it was so bad and even young alissa (the girl that rated every book five stars) was so incredibly disappointed. the setting and characters of this book sounded like perfection, so you might ask: where did it go wrong, alissa?well, let me tell you. i'll split it up in three parts:1) pacing.as you may know, i love build-up. i love slow-paced books with lots of depth. i love lots of descriptions in a book. i'm just gonna say this really quickly: the build-up led to nothing, despite being slow paced there was little to no depth and the writing alone couldn't really carry a book, even though i remember quite liking it. 2) plot.not only is it slow, i feel like a lot of things were unnecessary. no, even worse: i think this entire book was unnecessary. you know when you have a trilogy that should be a duology but they just make it three books anyway and then the second book is really bad and makes no sense? well, that was the case with this book, even though it is literally the first book in the trilogy. i literally typed this sentence, went to check how many books there were AND THERE'S A FOURTH ONE COMING? yeah ehm...help.what i was saying though: this book was a complete waste because of the very little things that DID happen in it, i'm pretty sure most of them are gonna be thrown away in the next book(s).3) ending.ridiculous is the best way to describe it. i remember reading the ending and sitting there like "wtf am i even supposed to say". it just didn't make any sense and made the book possibly even worse. sometimes you have things happening in books where you're like completely losing your mind and screaming "WTF" (or at least i do). with this one? i was just whispering wtf under my breath because i felt so empty and just wanted to roll my eyes. bonus point) david.i just really, really hate him. that doesn't have to be a bad thing, but i feel like i, as a reader, am supposed to love him. i clearly don't. i wanna strangle the guy.so yeah. never gonna get over how disappointing this was.
4077346413	Not perfect, but really, really, really good! I enjoyed this book so much and I can’t wait to continue the series.You can find my full review here.❤️ ❤️ ❤️
2250588122	3.5 stars. Was a solid 4 star book for me until that ending. Those last few pages will make it or break it for peopleWatch my full review: https://youtu.be/5rAqNG12JKM
2611979867	To the people who liked this, I’m glad you loved it and had fun reading it. However, I didn’t like it and had absolutely no fun while listening to it. And I really didn’t appreciate that the main mystery, the reason I was interested in this book, wasn’t solved. It barely scratched the surface. I started listening to this book and found all the characters annoying, but I was reading Starcrossed at that moment and that definitely irritated me so I thought, maybe, I’m just too pissed at those characters and that has affected a tad my feelings towards these characters so I switched to reading. That didn’t make it any better, it even made it worse.I didn’t like the writing. I didn’t know how much I disliked short sentences until I started reading this book. Okay, short sentences are not the problem but the amount they are used definitely is. It becomes so annoying after a very short time. And it’s not like she can’t write longer, better sentences because I found some of them quite nice, but noup. And that’s how/why I decided to switch once more to the audio.As I said, while listening in the beginning, the characters sounded so annoying and that didn’t change through the story. There was no one, NO ONE, that I found likable. I usually say there were none even though there could be one-ish likable person, one that’s a minor, twice appearing in the book, character that could get a bit of my sympathy, but here NOUP. This could be because the narrator narrates with a deadpan voice and is not giving the characters any life. Which brings me to the impression the characters left on me; I don’t like flat characters, I don’t think there is anyone that does, however persons here take it to the next level for me because they feel hollow, they are like robots that try to imitate humans and fail miserably doing so. Things don’t start happening and being interesting until it hits the 50% mark when (view spoiler)[((Stevie sees the message/riddle on her wall and Hayes dies)) (hide spoiler)] things pick up a tad but not much. Round 80% she (Stevie) get’s the idea that a murder could have happened. Really, you don’t say? So she decides to investigate and make dumb decisions. In the last 10% of the book some things are solved, of course not entirely, and I, honestly, didn’t care because the clues and conclusions were gathered in the previous 10% which basically makes the first 80% of the book useless. Other things that I had problems with, but am afraid I’ll run out of characters to rant about. Oh, and also spoilers :• Her parents. What the actual heck is their deal? Their daughter got into a school that accepts unique, smart (haven’t seen much of her intelligence, but okay) people and is free, but what do they do? They try to persuade her from going and put her obsession with crime down. Yes, it can be a bit “weird” but who gives a fuck, there are so many weirder things to be obsessed with. And the constant pushing her to make friends. I know, friends are necessary, but don’t push your freaking kid to talk to someone that she doesn’t want to and isn’t interested in conversation.• Still her parents, but now including a boy. Oh, my. The scene where she’s having lunch, or whatever, with her parents and David pissed me so much. Because they were so approving of her having a boyfriend like she finally did something good in her life. As if having a boyfriend/being in a relationship is the highest and only achievement in her life. And if that wasn’t all David says something that Stevie would normally say to her parents and they would say she’s wrong, but David get’s a compliment. Well I guess Stevie get’s a “compliment” too because she “got a smart one”. What an achievement.• The “romance”. Honestly, I don’t see how, why, David is made into her love interest. Why does there have to be a love interest? They have zero, zilch chemistry. Nada. It’s so forced. Unnatural. • Stevie finding the box under Ellie’s quilt. The cops have searched the room right before she entered the room, and you want to tell me they, after looking through the drawers, getting books from shelves, moving the bed, pulling the covers straight, haven’t found a box under the quill… on the bed??? Please.• The end. I knew the book’s supposed to end in a cliffhanger and after finishing it I wondered what is the cliffhanger, where is it? If the cliffhanger is that we, and Stevie, find out that the guy that her parents work for and she hates is David’s father… I don’t get what’s there that should make me feel like I’m hanging from a cliff.With all the things I didn’t like I forgot to say that there was something I liked (what a shock, right?), hence the 2 stars. The thing I liked, and enjoyed (mostly) listening to, were the scenes placed in 1936. That’s it.
2585713988	Where do you look for someone who’s never really there? Always on a staircase, but never on a stair.Craving a nostalgic mystery complete with crafty plots and a strong female detective? Look no further: Maureen Johnson’s TRULY DEVIOUS has all the Agatha Christie your heart could possibly desire.TRULY DEVIOUS opens in 1930s Vermont where magnate Arthur Ellingham owns a (free) exclusive private school. However soon after opening, Arthur receives a threatening riddle signed “truly devious.” Later, his wife, daughter, and a student go missing. The wife and student are found murdered, but daughter, Alice, is never found. Flashforward to present day: Stevie, a true crime fanatic, is attending Ellingham Academy in hopes of solving the now cold case. No sooner does Stevie settle into her new school when a classmate is murdered. It seems Truly Devious is back--with a vengeance. Games are no fun when you don’t know you’re playing. As an Agatha Christie/Dorothy Sayers/MC Beaton fan I absolutely LOVED this book. The beginning is a little slow as our cast of characters (suspects?) is introduced. However once the murder occurs, it’s a hurtling, roller coaster ride to the end. Just remember, patience is your friend. And besides, Maureen Johnson is such a brilliant writer you’ll want to indulge in her talent. Stevie said, "I don’t get to stay because of me. I get to stay because of you….I get to stay because there’s some guy." One of Maureen Johnson’s cardinal skills is character creation. Stevie, our main character, is precocious, bright, and underappreciated.Like Veronica Mars on Xanax. She’s very much a parallel to mystery lover (and murdered student) Dottie. Stevie’s anxiety increases her relatability and makes her Holmesian powers of deduction less ridiculous, and more understandable. SUMMARY: If you’re a mystery fan, definitely read this book. The sequel (the second in a planned trilogy) will be released in late January.
5291615302	I read about this author in our local newspaper. Apparently...She had come to our town for a book signing, but had unfortunately got Covid and ended up in one of our local hotels instead entertaining herself on Instagram. The article was somewhat humorous...So...I checked out this book from our library to decide if she was worth reading. I know that doesn’t sound like a great way to evaluate an author’s reading worthiness or not, but this is my story... Now to the review.The premise of this story is told in two timelines. One begins in 1936 and the other is in present time. And...Ellingham Academy is a famous private school in Vermont. It attracts brilliant students in which the tycoon, Albert Ellingham who also formed the school back in 1936 also lives with his wife and daughter. But...Something tragic happens then. Which...Leads readers to present day student Katie wanting to reopen the cold case and solve it. Although...It appears they did back then, she isn’t convinced. How does her reopening of this case impact the present? And then...The author did what no author should ever do – she left the ending a cliffhanger. (My pet peeve!)Apparently...It is a mystery trilogy series that we must read in order to solve it. Shall we? To be honest, I felt angry to be left hanging like this at the end. But...I was curious, and I wanted to know what happened. So...I did what most mystery lovers do, I ordered the second two books to read. Will this satisfy me? I don't know. There is something about needing to know who did it! But because of this particular book being a cliffhanger...regardless of however the set up of this book went...the review gets low stars from me. Added note...On second thought - I read some fellow friends reviews - and decided not to follow up and read the other books. I totally disagree with the cliffhanger idea. Note to authors - please don't do this to readers!
3941737026	** spoiler alert ** @John Green: i trusted u.this book was really great, but every time i closed it, i did not want to open it anymore. thanks to Maureen Johnson for singlehandedly pulling me out of my review rut. please note that there could be SPOILERS here, there, and everywhere in this review bc i'm not nice. again. it contains spoilers™these prodigies are so lifeless they make tiktok influencencers sound less boring. almost all the other characters are lacklustre as well. now hear me out: i love smart people. for a long time i wondered if i was sapiosexual lol. im not but i really value knowledge and people who has lots of it. but these people?? im sorry i dont get their appeal. they are just plain boring. i swear if i again hear " i make macHinens, he makes videos, you research crime" i will simply lose it. i knew our precious Hayes guy was going to get murdered from miles away. what a shame they didn't even try giving his character more. his character screamed—✨ i'm the most side character you'll ever meet, and i will die.✨ the writing is very john green-ish that is if i remember anything about his writing. the book itself is very well-written, obviously. that said, i honestly don't understand what, truly devious, has done differently to get better treatment from me than other ya books. well if we take a moment to appreciate the fact that this book came out before 2019, it'd be safe to say that it was one of those cool books back then. but the game has changed since. one of us is lying, a good girls guide to murder, and recently the hawthorne trilogy has taken over a large portion of the book community in the past years. this was just decent if compared to those books. having already read two of the said books, you can tell how disappointed a great many aspects of this book made me. romance in ya and me: not best mates. lastly, what was the romance even? pardon me but the "ooh david is attractive" "ohh why do i think he's attractive" —these are all very stereotypically ya and always get on my nerve. making out when your the very person you are making out with is stressed and anxious, and doing all these without sharing any apparent bond? man they had no prior connection whatsoever. very cool of you, guys. speaking of our guy david: meet david. david has no personality. he's just got a sob story and his father is probably the evil guy. i pity his poor characterization, not him. i was really into stevie's character and her entire thought process in the beginning of this book but later ended up feeling nothing but indifference towards her. god save me from the "i MakE machines" girl. i know engineers irl and they don't act like that. don't let your god gifted talent go to your head. nate was the most unproblematically anxious kid i low-key liked. the other characters..well, i don't have much to say about them. same goes to the characters from the past (crime #1). Overall+good stuff: not good enough for me. appreciate the lgbtq and anxiety rep. also the fact that we are told that these exist from the very beginning of the book. while i did not find it creepy by any means, i loved the entire atmosphere. the cliffhanger was pretty decent. i guessed it. but it was still fun to know i was right. does this make me want to pursue reading the next books? yes, it does. am i going to, though? nope, buddy. would i recommend this book? to some readers, yes i will. it wasn't a complete disaster, just annoyingly overhyped.
3585272829	Update 4/22/22“Schools may be famous for many things. Academics, graduates, sports teams. They are not supposed to be famous for murders.”I did a reread in preparation of reading The Hand on the Wall. I wanted to get a refresher and see if my feelings changed at all on Truly Devious. And I’m happy to say they did not! Obviously the content wasn’t fresh and I already knew the surprises but I still loved the atmosphere that Maureen Johnson surrounded her readers with. I kept picturing a type of Winchester Mystery House of sorts but set in a rural woodsy area of Vermont. The only reason I remember it was Vermont was because of all the different maple syrup type dishes the school served. It was actually kind of gross..lol.🤢 And she really does an amazing job with entwining the past with the present. I still couldn’t pick up any clues that would have told me who the perpetrators were for the mysteries of the past and the present. I mean I already knew who did it but I still think she did a fantastic job keeping it suspenseful.I still feel like I didn’t form any attachments to the characters. And I really want to! I want to like them all. They are all such quirky unique characters. I’m not sure what the problem is. If it’s me or the way the characters are written. But this is not enough to keep from going on with the series because overall it’s really very good. ___________________________“Riddle riddle on the wall. Murder comes to pay a call. A body in a lonely field. Will it’s secrets be revealed. Or the lady in the lake. Will she give the lucky break. Alice, Alice where are you? Won’t you give a single clue? The detectives here, it’s time to play. Truly Devious Lives Another Day.”I picked up Truly Devious as a buddy read, it’s been on my TBR but it’s not something that I’ve been pushing myself to get to. I’m so glad I finally got the chance, because I really enjoyed it!⁣Stevie is an awkward girl. She doesn’t like to do the “normal” girly stuff like shop, do her nails or date boys. She’s into True Crime and wants to solve murders one day. This fascination is what led her to apply to Ellingham Academy. The famous Albert Ellingham’s wife and a student Dottie were murdered in 1936 and his daughter went missing presumably dead as well. Their case was never solved. Stevie now a new Ellingham student has decided she’s going to solve the case. But something is amiss practically from the start and Truly Devious, the pen name of the killer seems to be back, and has claimed a new victim. How is this possible? Stevie now tries to solve the old crimes as well as the new.Thing I liked:-This book is all about atmosphere. Maureen Johnson did a great job setting the scene interweaving the past with the present so that the reader gets a complete picture.⁣-This is a character driven book, so if you enjoy books that spend a lot time getting to know the cast of characters this would be one. ⁣- Nate was one of my favorites, he’s someone who is a bit awkward but has a sarcastically funny and loyal side.⁣Things I Didn’t Like:-The Pacing could have been better, it was a bit slow at times.⁣-I felt no connection to some of the characters, especially the murder victim.⁣-This is classified as a Thriller and it’s really more of a mystery.⁣I think I’m in the minority in how much I enjoyed this book, most of my fellow buddy readers seemed to disagree with my assessment. But if you are looking for a good YA “Who Dunnit” this is a book I would highly recommend. I’m excited to see what the following books have in store!⁣
4700053797	3 ⭐... I'm honestly so disappointed by this ☹ I really thought I would love it- like, an unsolved crime, an academia setting and tons of good reviews?? But it was just soo underwhelming 😭😭Truly Devious follows our mc Stevie Bell, who is really into crime and cold cases. A famous case she has always heard about is the Ellingham kidnapping, where someone called Truly Devious left a threatening note and then kidnapped billionaire Ellingham's wife and child. When Stevie gets into Ellingham Academy, where the crime took place, she is determined to finally solve it. But it will be much harder than she thought- Ellingham students may still be in danger...I've been wanting to read this for ages as it sounded right up my alley but I just never got to it. And now that I finally have... I thought it be sm better ☹☹Let's start with what I liked bc it wasn't all bad ✨ I did enjoy the setting and atmosphere of the book- it had a dark academia feel which I really enjoyed 🥰 the flashbacks to the kidnapping that we saw also had a very eerie feeling to them, which made the atmosphere very enjoyable. I also didn't have any problems with the writing- like, was it the best writing ever? Not really, but it was still enjoyable and easy to read 💕Now, what I didn't enjoy as much... 😬😬 my main issue with the book was the pacing. I feel like the book dragged on forever and hardly anything happened 🙈 Stevie literally went there to investigate what happened and then did NO investigating 🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️ AND then after a whole book of little happening we didn't even find out what happened at the end 🙄😤I also didn't care about any of the characters OR the romance. Stevie was such a bland mc and so was David- he was literally so boring 🥱 and them as a couple was even worse 🙄🙄 like, where was the chemistry?? I was very unimpressed ☹Overall, this definitely wasn't my favourite- I'm still so disappointed ☹☹ I guess I would still say give it a try if you like: ✔Unsolved mystery✔Academia setting✔A pinch of [not necessarily good] romance ✔Decent writing I wish I loved it 😭😭《 2023 Challenge: Book 87 of 110 》~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yeahh I didn't love this one that much 😬😬 it wasn't bad per se and I can understand why others enjoyed it, but I ended it feeling quite disappointed 😒😒 i wish I enjoyed it more 😭RTC!
2585795915	Where do I even begin. This book was just amazing. It was a brilliant combination of coming of age and mystery.Ellingham Academy is a famous private school in Vermont for the brightest thinkers, inventors, and artists. It was founded by Albert Ellingham, an early twentieth century tycoon, who wanted to make a wonderful place full of riddles, twisting pathways, and gardens. "A place" he said, "where learning is a game."Shortly after the school opened, his wife and daughter were kidnapped. The only real clue was a mocking riddle listing methods of murder, signed with the frightening pseudonym, Truly Devious. It became one of the great unsolved crimes of American history.True-crime aficionado Stevie Bell is set to begin her first year at Ellingham Academy, and she has an ambitious plan: She will solve this cold case. That is, she will solve the case when she gets a grip on her demanding new school life and her housemates: the inventor, the novelist, the actor, the artist, and the jokester. But something strange is happening. Truly Devious makes a surprise return, and death revisits Ellingham Academy. The past has crawled out of its grave. Someone has gotten away with murder.There. I just copy and pasted the entire synopsis to pad my review because it's snowing and I'm to depressed to write a long enough review.ANyway, I actually dnfed this once but not because I wasn't enjoying it only because another book came that I wanted to read. So when I 'started' this book I was actually halfway finished. Which is good because boy... The exposition in this thing is HUGE! Nonetheless, I really loved this book and that cliff hanger was not as bad as I expected but it was still CRUEL!|blog|Bottom Line:5 StarsAge Recommendation: 13+ (Kissing, Swearing)| Goodreads | Blog | Pinterest | LinkedIn | YouTube | Instagram
5758889410	why would you end a mystery book on a cliffhanger..? like don’t piss me off, the story doesn’t even stand well on its own to not have any reveals at the end. what do you guys like about this book? i find stevie really boring and over analytical, the romance dull and the mystery the other interesting thing about the book which… doesn’t even get solved in this book? lol i’m not sitting through another book if nothing was even solved in this one.
3064150444	*2.5
3637146353	“When you have enough power and money, you can dictate the meanings of words.” Subjective grade- 85% Plot - 85% Writing & dialogue- 90% Worldbuilding - 87% Character development - 70%Character relationships - 50%This book was the first mystery book I’ve ever read and wow, was it good. Truly Devious follows a young girl named Stevie Bell who has a passion for true-crime. More specifically, The Ellingham case. Not only is there one mystery, but another interwoven mystery which I had no idea about (perhaps I should start reading the synopsis of books before taking TikTok book recommendations straight up lol). Anyway, the plot of this book was pretty well structured. Despite the book being about two mysteries, it wasn’t overwhelming and there were little to no info-dumping which is always a win. The downfall, though was the romance. What the hell was that? Im a strong believer that if you cannot write romance right, just don’t write it! It was unnecessary and hurt my poor soul.Overall, 4.28 stars!
2517402504	My review “There is nothing so serious as a game.” Stevie’s parents always wanted to have a normal daughter – one that dates hot boys, goes to prom and spends her free time shopping. Instead, they are stuck with a crime-obsessed genius who got in prestige school for geniuses like her – Ellingham Academy. That is a special school founded by American billionaire Albert Ellingham in 1928. It is built for the purposes of educating teenagers with special skills or knowledge in any area of interest, being specialized and personalized for their needs. Namely, Ellingham’s academy is known for one other thing. In 1936, Albert’s wife and daughter, Iris and Alice Ellingham, were kidnapped. Iris’s body was found days later and Alice was never seen after that. Few weeks before those events, a threat-letter in the form of a riddle arrived signed “Truly, Devious” and is widely believed that the letter is connected to the case. The Ellingham case is one of the most known cold cases and hasn’t been solved to this day. Stevie knows everything about the Ellingham case and dreams of solving it. After she got accepted to Ellingham academy, series of suspicious events lead her onto a new trail, but after finding a dead body of one of her fellow students, the cold case isn’t the only thing that needs solving. “Few words are more chilling when put together than make friends.” It’s been a while since I read a good mystery book and I can’t believe how much I missed it! When I was younger, I was basically swallowing Agatha Christie books, and the thrill of solving mysteries and theorizing about this book made me want to start reading them way more often. I was really invested in two parallel cases that were emerging through the plot. They both seemed somehow connected, but still separated, and in the end, I had no idea what to think. Johnson really surprised me with her skilled writing and plotting of two time-disconnected, but obviously related and equally mysterious cases. Stevie is a mastermind, but still an amateur detective so reading from her perspective differs from adult crime novels I used to read, especially because she can’t use law enforcement assets and has to sneak around half of the time, but it was still so much fun thinking about someone my age simultaneously solving a cold kidnapping case and a murder. The pacing and obvious absence of solid action represented a hell of a big problem for me. Yes, I am aware that this is a short mystery book and is not intended to be packed with action, but for the first half of the book (I counted it was 50%!), NOTHING was happening. There was Stevie, and Ellingham Academy and a lot of Stevie accommodating to her new school or talking about the case –it all felt like a boring intro. Sure, there should be an intro and all, but that doesn’t mean you make it half of the first book. They were literally filming a video for 100 pages. Only after the discovery of the body did things start to heat up. The story is told from the first-person perspective of one character – Stevie, which is, huh, funny because of all characters I liked her the least. Idk I don’t have a real reason, just found her character boring from time to time. It’s super interesting being inside her head while solving mysteries and I loved how was the relationship with her dick-parents described, although I don’t see why hasn’t she ever stood up for herself. By all means, she sounds like an interesting protagonist, but I just didn’t get that vibe of fondness towards her.The love interest comes in the form of hot mess David, who is, really, something I didn’t realize I needed in this book. He’s obnoxious and does not give a fuck, but is the sweetest cinnamon roll and I’m done. I love this tension and love-to-hate between Stevie and him – it’s just constructed really good, with a lot of fluff and suspense, but still not too much so it’s not pulling around xdI need Nate to become an actual person so I can marry him because he is THE ETERNAL MOOD. Sarcastic, socially awkward and eternally pessimistic author who would rather do anything that actually writes. Perfect. (I think he’s the embodiment of anyone who tried to write anything, ever). “Vitamin D,” Stevie said. “You need it.” “You don’t know that,” he said. “I want to eat my meat in my room with the lights off.” And then there’s Larry, who is supposed to be just a side character but is probably the coolest person in Ellingham. He’s everyone’s official dad detective and no one can tell me otherwise! That cliffhanger, NO! that several weird-as-fuck but utterly amazing cliffhangers left me breathless, craving for the sequel so I guess I better got onto that xd “Look! A riddle! Time for fun! Should we use a rope or gun? Knives are sharp and gleam so pretty Poison’s slow, which is a pity Fire is festive, drowning’s slow Hanging’s a ropy way to go A broken head, a nasty fall A car colliding with a wall Bombs make a very jolly noise Such ways to punish naughty boys! What shall we use? We can’t decide. Just like you cannot run or hide. Ha ha. Truly, Devious” (Sorry I just needed to add Truly Devious letter to this review because it’s simply brilliant :P)Blog Tumblr
3383655555	Actual Rating:⭐⭐⭐.5 What a twist.🤔I was so not expecting so much to happen in the last few chapters. Nor would I have ever thought that (view spoiler)[Ellie was the murderer of Hayes. She really seemed like one of the coolest students in this book. (hide spoiler)]Well, I guess this shows that I should never ever try to be in charge of a murder case.😅 They always say it's the person you least expect, but somehow I still didn't think it would be them.Stevie was cool and all, but my favourite was Nate. That guy really doesn't hesitate to speak out on what he thinks of a situation.🤣 Now David..........well, I guess it may be too soon to judge him, but so far he's pretty annoying. I like Nate better. Nate is waayyy better. He's one of the main reasons why I didn't rate this book any lower.🥰 “Of course I worry too much,” Nate said. “But I’m usually right. The people who worry are always right. That’s how that works.” ^He's right xD.Nate is like Stevie's Watson. (I only know this guy because of my Sherlock obsessed sister) Her partner in crime. Really can't wait to see the other adventures they have together.🧐It was probably just me, but I felt like not much really happened.....? Like only towards the end was when things started to pick up, although I understand that this mystery is supposed to be solved after 3 books, but still.......it felt a little dragged out in the beginning imo.🤷‍♀️Ahhh but the ending was really shocking. I was actually scared. I could almost imagine that I was in the middle of that scene. (view spoiler)[And when they found out that Ellie escaped.........OMGG I GOT SO FREAKED OUT. SHE'S SO GONNA WANT REVENGE AGAINST STEVIE.😨😓 (hide spoiler)]. This note was the creepiest of all: (view spoiler)[So many of Truly Devious said actually happened to people. (hide spoiler)]And this is only the beginning........... Buddy Read with my sis ~ Maya |Blog| ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2999763808	this has got to be one of the most boring books I have read thus far in 2019. for a book to feature two murder mysteries in two separate timelines this wasn’t engaging or interesting in the slightest. I mean it really was a mystery about the hormonal antics of teenagers more than anything. also not only does this book “center” around two mysteries but it takes place at this elite school that only a few kids get to go to. and guess what? ALL OF THE KIDS WERE BORING AF. how are you going to have this super awesome school where the brightest and most talented kids get to attend and you pick a youtuber, a dude who plays video games, and a rich girl who just talks about paris. LIKE COME ON MAN. not only that but the characters were so cliche and the dialogue was SUPER cringey. I loved the anxiety rep in this but that’s not enough for me to enjoy a character or a book. and the plot was just a mess? barely anything happens and I was so incredibly bored the entire time. and the fact that we don’t even get any resolution is fucking ridiculous. I’m honestly a lil furious just thinking about. imagine reading a mystery that wasn’t even fleshed out well and then not getting any answers?? THE AUDACITY. honestly the only reason I didn’t dnf it at 40% was because I didn’t have another audiobook on hand. the fact that this is such a favorite of people is beyond me but good on them I suppose.
2772807143	2024que manera de pasarlo bien con este libro. me encantan los thrillers juvenilessss.2019AMADOOO
2770056322	2.5 stars? 2?
2203934699	Posso dargli millemila stelline come voto? No, perchè le merita tutte!Questo libro è un mistery young adult, che tutti gli appassionati di Sherlock Holmes ameranno. Ho adorato tutto del libro tranne una cosa... E' IL PRIMO DI UNA SERIE E IO DEVO ASPETTARE UN ANNO PER IL SEGUITO. Like: how? Come dovrei riuscire ad aspettare 365 giorni?Ma torniamo al libro. Prima di tutto, c'è un mistero di fondo con un omicidio e rapimento. Un messaggio in versi che sembra scritto da un pazzo che si firma Truly, Devious. Una scuola per super dotati e geni. Già qua, io sarei stata conquistata.Ma no, abbiamo due linee temporali, e se la prima è ambientata nel 1939, la seconda è ambientata ai nostri giorni. Stevie, la nostra protagonista appassionata di True Crime (posso immedesimarmi, guardo fin troppi documentari su assassini famosi e cari irrisolti) viene ammessa alla prestigiosa scuola dove il suo scopo è risolvere il mistero accaduto anni prima. E invece Truly, Devious sembra essere tornato, quindi Stevie dovrà risolvere ben due casi complicati e apparentemente senza senso.Non vi dico altro tranne che è un must read se vi interessano i mistery. Lo stile di scrittura è formidabile e ho adorato tutti gli indovinelli e i colpi di scena (anche se l'ultimo era un po' prevedibile).In definitiva:SONO OSSESSIONATA. Correte a leggerlo.
2975772123	RATING: 2.5 STARS-ish Games are not fun when you don’t know you’re playing. I’m such a loser. A cool title with the promise of YA mystery and I’m sold.I’m kind of disappointed that I don’t like it as much as I expected to, but I’ve been in this community long enough to know better than putting up high hopes over hyped YA books.It’s okay, I guess. It has so much potential; and I’m sure we’ll get to see more exciting stuff in the sequels but I’m going to blow that happy bubble from you and say that nothing happened in this book.Plot? What plot? Stevie Bell had a simple desire: she wanted to be standing over a dead body. And then, when it happened: She had wanted to see a dead body—but not this, not a real someone. *audible sigh*So Stevie Bell, our main heroine is a high school girl obsessed with mystery and she dreams of working for the FBI. Call her whatever you want but she’s a modern-day female Sherlock wannabe for me. She enrolled into this super-elite, super-prestigious school called Ellingham Academy, built by 1930s Bill Gates and only accepts gifted kids. The thing is, Ellingham Academy is full of secrets. Its’ founder, Albert Ellingham wanted to build a school where ‘learning is a game’ (I don’t even understand this, go figure). It’s basically where you can learn and play monopoly or whatever. Albert Ellingham himself lived in the Academy grounds along with his wife and daughter. A tragedy happened in 1936 where Albert’s wife and daughter were kidnapped by mysterious kidnappers. Nobody on earth, even FBI, could solve the case, so it remained a mystery 80 years later. As for the Academy, it still stands proudly until present-time book. Stevie, of course, hopes to solve the case once and for all. She dreams of standing over dead bodies and was surprised when one of her housemates got killed.First of all, the concept for this very school is ridiculous. Everything from what they learn in this school and our main prodigies in House Minerva (a detective, a tech-savvy, an artist, a programmer, a youtuber, and an author) is just straight up impossible. And to believe these people are high school students??? But I know better than to a judge a book because it’s ridiculous since a specific series (I know you guys are tired hearing me say this for the thousandth time) about a fictional sport is my current obsession. It doesn’t make any sense but I love it to death. It doesn’t matter! It’s fiction after all!I like the world building and how the author describes the layout of the campus. It feels homey and it plunges me into a world like no other. Many people say it has a dark academic vibes (you know: knowledge, gay people, murders, poetry), but I beg to differ because I can’t feel any dark academic vibe in this book. If anything, it feels like utopian since it has quite some pop culture references. It’s a rough copy of Hogwarts but with technology instead of magic. Also, the buildings remind me of Camp Half-Blood.I like interconnecting storylines and how a story in the past connects what happened present-time, and while that element is present, it’s handled poorly and I feel like the ‘past’ storyline barely contributes anything to the story. It’s not important and I don’t know why it’s even included. Maybe it has something to do with the mystery or maybe it’ll have significance in the sequel, but like I said, there are little to no plot in this book. It’s a waste of 400 pages, if you ask me. The ‘past’ storyline basically tells what happened during the time of the famous Ellingham kidnapping. And I can’t stress to you enough how ridiculously stupid the characters were in this storyline. Read it and you’ll know what I mean. It’s there. The present storyline is of course, about Stevie. The only reason why 400 pages are not enough to contain a solid plot is because most of them are taken up by the unnecessary flashbacks. The present storyline is the juice, but instead, they get less screen time and the plot suffered greatly. I was promised a classmate death in the synopsis but even that didn’t happen until halfway throughout the book. So what happened in the first half, you may ask? Well, nothing. It’s basically Stevie stressing about new school and a lot of student gathering; a long, dragging intro. Combine that with the past storyline and the plot is a huge mess. It’s all over the place.Stevie, while not annoying enough to get on my nerves, is not exciting enough for me to like her. She reminds me of both Pip from A Good Girl's Guide to Murder and Audrey Rose from Stalking Jack the Ripper. She’s a lot more boring than Pip (Pip is amazing); though they share the same intrigue for famous unsolved cases, and she also shares similar creepy inner monologues about dead bodies just like Audrey Rose. I’m always up for kickass female characters solving murder mysteries, but Stevie’s actions are much too robotical for my taste. She’s two dimensional and doesn’t even have enough depth to her character. She does this thing where she spits out facts Sherlock-style like the next Hermione Granger. Most of the time, I feel indifferent toward her, but sometimes she irked me a bit, especially, when romance is involved. We’ll get to that in a bit.As for our other characters: Janelle seems fun but she also has very few screen time. Nate is the character I relate the most because we both hate social interactions. Ellie is fun I like her the best. Hayes is an obnoxious bastard. And David is…Can we address that very very unnecessary romance subplot? All for the Game ruined me so much to the point that it changed my perspective toward romance in books. It’s just… that series spends two whole books without anything in the romance department and it managed to be awesome. I have no problem with romance, in fact, it adds more feels to the book and who knows? Maybe it would make a book better. But the romance in this book has zero development; it came out of nowhere, it’s confusing and weird as hell, and I don’t understand the point of this relationship. Stevie and David barely had any interaction before they were suddenly making out. David is the most boring love interest ever. He has NO PERSONALITY and adding that mysterious-boy vibe is not doing anything to help. The only upside of his character is that he’s hot and Stevie is turned on, but other than that, I don’t see it contributing anything to the plot or Stevie as a character. It annoys me to no end that we know about David and Stevie’s silly relationship more than we know about the mystery. It’s not cute and completely unnecessary.But despite all that, for whatever reason, I actually enjoy this book. It bored me to death in the first place and it took me days to find the motivation to finish, because let’s face it, the first half of the book drags. The writing is engaging and while barely anything happened in this book, I sense a bigger conspiracy coming.And I know you’ve all heard of the infamous cliffhanger in the end of this book but I’m not surprised to find that it didn’t really do much for me. The ‘reveal’ (if it could be called that) doesn’t have a surprise energy to it, and that additional twist in the very end is also cheap and obvious. I’m a little bummed that I spent 400 pages for nothing; we don’t even know what happened or who murdered who. But I’m still excited to find out, though it kind of discouraged me a bit.
2257939585	reread in march 2020; five stars ∗ loved reading this book even more the second time around! all the stars | ok.... w h a t w a s t h a t e n d i n g??? i’m like speechless right now? wow alright first things first: i genuinely, wholeheartedly loved and enjoyed this book. for me, this book just became better with each chapter. i really love forensic/criminal psychology (((i’m literally going to college for that))) and seeing stevie be obsessed with that as well was a first for me!! i loved stevie as a character, and even though she had some faults i felt like it just added to her development as a character. all the supporting characters had their own unique personalities, and the dynamic between the relationships between said characters was very entertaining to read about. i looooved the plot, like so much. it’s almost like maureen johnson looked inside my brain and found my absolute dream scenario. honestly i’d love to be in stevie’s place?? ugh this book was so freakin’ good. highly recommend if you like murder mysteries or a boarding school setting!!
3841732819	*This review contains spoilers. I will try to put spoilers in spoiler tags but I might miss a thing or two.*Question 1: How did you find the characters?A) Love (1 star)B) Like (0.75 stars)C) Okay (0.50 stars)D) Dislike (0.25 stars)E) Hate (0 stars)Explain your answer:LET ME BE CLEAR, IT WAS A STRUGGLE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN CHOICES D AND E. BUT I WAS FEELING GENEROUS SO I WENT WITH DStevie: Stevie wants to stand over a dead body. (fun, right?) Stevie wants to solve a crime. She's also somewhat of a genious. She's your average smart child MC who ends up solving the murder. I have nothing against that really, but in my opinion I thought she was a bit dull and annoying. Stevie indicated to a sign that simply read MOOSE. "We've passed 5 of those. That's a lot of promises. Not one moose." (annoying, yes?) Also, she thinks making friends is a necessary part of life. Yes, I get that you need friends in life, but the way Stevie thinks of it, it seems like you'd die if you didn't have any friends. Yes, I get that she has anxiety. And the author portrays it in an amazing way. I could understand Stevie's struggles. But, having friends being almost a life-or-death thing just ticked me off a bit.Janelle: Janelle's was the one remotely interesting character in this book. Its a shame she doesn't come out more. Janelle is into engineering. She likes to make things like machines. (cool stuff) AND she's black and lesbian. THE BEST character in the book. She deserves better than this horrid terrible agonizing book. *shakes head in dismay*Nate: Nate is a writer. He wrote a book called The Moonbright Cycles in the duration of a few months when he was 14. It was a pretty big hit and Nate is now working on book 2. Personally, I have very mixed opinions on this character. He hasn't done anything to make me hate him but he hasn't don't anything to make me like him either. Quite a dull character actually. Doesn't speak much and stuff, altbkjgh I get him. I used to not speak much either.Ellie: Mixed feelings about this character too. She seems like a very cool person. I love her self-confidence and no-care-in-the-world type attitude. Ellie, full name Element, is a artist. A very peculiar artist. She likes playing her saxophone Roota, reciting French poetry, and drinking.David: EWWWWWWWWWWWW. NO. *screaming in frustration* WHY TF IS HE EVEN A CHARACTER IN THIS BOOK?!?! David is a guy with a unknown past. He's supposedly "mysterious." He's also supposedly the "love interest." Really, all he is is dull, flat, uninteresting, tiresome, and boring. (Thank you, Google, for providing me those oh so wonderful words to describe David)Hayes: Hayes is a famous Youtuber who gained his fame through a show called The End of it All. He's a complete, total asshole. (view spoiler)[And he died so as Truly Devious might say, ha ha. (hide spoiler)] I didn't like his character either. When have I ever liked a character---------------------------Question 2: How did you find the plot?A) Love (1 star)B) Like (0.75 stars)C) Okay (0.50 stars)D) Dislike (0.25 stars)E) Hate (0 stars)Explain your answer:In 1936, the kidnapping of the wife and daughter of Albert Ellingham took place. The mysterious kidnapper called himself, "Truly Devious." Although he was supposedly caught, much of the evidence did fully match the situation. In the present, Stevie Bell comes to attend Albert Ellingham's academy for gifted people. She decides she will solve the cold case of the kidnapping, that many others before her had failed to do. That's when Truly Devious strikes again and kills a student at the Academy.Overall, the concept of the plot isn't bad. Quite interesting, really. What I didn't like about this book was the pacing. It was VERYYY slow right up till the end. And I noticed something that seemed not quite right. Truly Devious first struck in 1936, then strikes again in the present, which I'll assume is sometime in the 21st century. That would make Truly Devious AT LEAST 80 years old, assuming they were young, and about 20 years old during the kidnapping. 80 isn't a age where you go around murdering people and (view spoiler)[hauling around pounds upon pounds of dry ice. (hide spoiler)] Maybe there's something I missed, but that part of the book just didn't make sense to me.---------------------------Question 3: How did you find the setting?A) Love (1 star)B) Like (0.75 stars)C) Okay (0.50 stars)D) Dislike (0.25 stars)E) Hate (0 stars)Explain your answer:The setting was fine, really. I feel like I end up giving books more stars because the setting isn't bad *cough* unlike the rest of the book *cough* Ellingham Academy, a school for, well, geniuses. (genious heh) They only accept like what? 50 students a year? And there's no specific way to apply. Quoting the book, "You just had to get in touch with something." It's interesting, but boring at the same time. The "school for special students" thing gets old, fast. Oh yes! The map. Definitely the map since I happen to have a thing for maps at beginnings of books. The map was fine. Nothing special really. Almost unnecessary. It's not like I care where places in the school are anyways. Wow I think that's the first time I said I hated a map (view spoiler)[On the other hand, maybe I missed this but, how is a dead man paying for the things that go on at school? If I recall correctly, both Albert and Alice are dead, so how's the school still running? Does it just run on the money Albert still had when he died? He has no living descendants, since Alice is 99.999% most likely DEAD. (but then again, I'm not an expert when it comes to money) (hide spoiler)]---------------------------Question 4: How did you find the writing/POV?A) Love (1 star)B) Like (0.75 stars)C) Okay (0.50 stars)D) Dislike (0.25 stars)E) Hate (0 stars)Explain your answer: I HATED the writing. The writing was what made me DNF this book the first time I read it, and it's what almost made me DNF it this time, too. Here's a list of reasons why I hate it:1) It's told in a third person POV. I feel like it would have been so much better in first person.2) Stevie, even told from third person, is extremely annoying3) The writing seemed a bit oddly formal to me. It made it difficult to focus, and I ended up rereading pages more than once. (this one might be just me though)4) Once again, the pacing was EXTREMELY AND AGONIZINGLY SLOW. This book felt as if the author had taken half a book and spread it out over the course of one book. Also, I felt that there was an extreme lack of action.5) This book didn't give me any "mysterious vibes." Most mystery books would have me dying to finish it, but while this book made me want to get to the end, but for different reasons. I wanted to get to the end of this book so that I could get over it and just, finish it. (mostly so I could write this heh)6) The flashbacks in time seemed a bit unnecessary since (view spoiler)[Stevie doesn't even solve the case anyways. (hide spoiler)] But, I mean, I guess it was a nice addition?7) Oh how I could go on and on. Sadly, there's a character limit and I don't want to make this review too long.---------------------------Question 5: How did you find the conflict/resolution?A) Love (1 star)B) Like (0.75 stars)C) Okay (0.5 stars)D) Dislike (0.25 stars)E) Hate (0 stars)Explain your answer:(view spoiler)[A student at school, Hayes, the famous Youtuber, dies. At first, it seemed like a odd accident. With a little digging from Stevie, she finds that it might not have been an accident. Behind the backs of the police, (of course it's like that) Stevie decides she will solve this seeming murder. When Ellie becomes one of the main suspects, she runs away before she could be questioned. "Why run when you haven't done anything?" Then, the book ends with David telling Stevie that his dad is Edward King, and if I'm quoting Janelle right, "A jackass from Pennsylvania." The book ends at that. (hide spoiler)]---------------------------Total: (1/5)Other notes:There's a character named Kaz. *girlish giggling*The cover looks ok.....?No other thoughts really, unless you want to hear me scream about how much I hate (wait no, strongly dislike) this book.The Vanishing Stair: RTC (when if I ever get around to reading it)The Hand on the Wall: Also, RTC
3808362518	I was in the mood for a good mystery. Unfortunately, this did not deliver the mystery I was hoping for.❌ I FOUND THIS VERY BORING up until the last quarter of the book. The inciting incident doesn't even happen until after the 50% mark, which is ridiculous for a mystery novel! Up until then, it's just describing the school, the characters and the murder/kidnapping that happened 70 year ago❌ THERE WERE NO STAKES in solving either of these mysteries. Stevie didn't even realize there was a second mystery until 85% in to the book 😑 The only reason why we're supposed to feel invested is because Stevie is obsessed with solving the Ellingham mystery, but if she doesn't solve it... her pride will be hurt? She'll get a bad grade on her project? Sorry, but those aren't high enough stakes for me to fear for her failure✅ I ENJOYED THE SETTING of the school and all of the side characters. The school felt appropriately spooky yet also kind of magical, and each of the characters had their "thing" that made them interesting and unique. I just wish this setup hadn't taken up the entire first half of the book✅ THERE WERE REFERENCES to partying, drugs, sex, etc. which I actually felt was realistic for this age group. Put a bunch of teenagers in the middle of a mountain and they'll find ways to entertain themselves 😅❌ NOT HAVING ANY RESOLUTION at the end of this book felt kind of bad. We're fed small clues here and there about Ellingham but there's no forward progress with any of these clues. And then we kind of have a suspect in the second mystery that comes up, but even that doesn't have a real resolution. It was very unsatisfyingEven though I did not enjoy this, I seem to be in the minority because a lot of other reviewers really like it. I think I was just expecting this to feel more like a typical mystery when in reality its more of an setup for the rest of the series. I have a feeling the next book will be better but I still don't think I'll read it.
