3862044241	Happy pub day📚🥳🎈Can you imagine the eerier and more terrifying mash up of House of Leaves- Haunting of Hill House and Rebecca? By the way this cover deserves its own five blazing stars! This is magnificent, terrifying masterpiece! If you like the definition of a couple who realize they start to fall for each other as both of their hands hold intestines of a man in pain, lying on operation table, they’ll love Jane and Augustine! Well, aren’t those weirdos perfect for each other? Jane Shoringfield is extremely logical woman reminds me of combination of coolest and creepiest actress Rosamund Pike and another blood freezing blond Kim Novak: she’s logical, she plays no games, she knows what kind of struggles awaiting unmarried women so she makes list consisted ten men and Augustine Lawrence is the first name at her list. She just proposes to the man at the beginning and she presents her offer as business arrangement that both sides can be mutually benefited. Jane is good at mathematics and she will organize his accounts as she gets Augustine’s last name. And of course Augustine will resume staying each night at Lindridge Hall-the female estate. No romance, intimacy or consummating of marriage will be required. They keep their public faces as happily married couple as they keep their independence behind the close doors! Both Augustine and Jane are quiet quirky, awkward ! They are truly weird match made in hell. But their well thought plans change abruptly at the wedding night because of the unexpected storm and mudslides which prevent Jane’s carriage move back to town. She returns back to Lindridge Hall where her husband dearest forbid her to stay but at the storm there’s nowhere else for her to stay! As soon as she spends two nights at the place, Jane realizes Augustine keeps dark secrets from her. Jane checks the accounting book and finds out a recorded large amount of balance belongs to a name called Elodie. Jane finds some entries at the previous months as well. Who the hell that woman? Is she Augustine’s estranged daughter? And who is the red eyed woman looking at from the window? The creepy things start to happen behind the closed and locked doors, crumbling walls of Lindridge Hall! Nothing is as it seems! And as the magic starts, everything in Jane’s life traumatically changes! She doesn’t different what is real and what is illusion anymore! The gothic, twisty version of Rebecca with Alienist vibes and Crimson Peak push you turn the pages faster! Especially the last third of the book is truly shocking, jaw dropping, a great kind of lunatic! The beginning of the book was a little compelling! You just have to be patient for the upcoming juicy parts! As soon as Jane finds herself at Lindridge Hall, true magic starts to enchant you! I only lower one star for my troubled and bumpy start of the book but overall it’s whirlwind, high tension, intense, gothic, blood freezing, WTH I just read kind of promising reading for the genre fans! I highly recommend it! Special thanks to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for sharing this digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions.Follow me:instagramfacebooktwitter
3882800599	↠ 4.5 starsThe crumbling manor at Lindridge Hall hides a deadly secret, one that will be unearthed when its new mistress steps over the threshold. Jane Shoringfield is nothing short of practical, and having reached the end of her living period with her guardians, decides that the most logical way forward will be to secure herself a husband. The chosen candidate for this transaction is the reclusive, yet handsome, doctor Augustine, whose profession may provide her with the very independence that she requires. Augustine agrees to this marriage of convenience, on the agreement that Jane never set foot in Lindridge Hall, his family estate just outside of town. Nonetheless, on the night of their wedding, a chance storm leaves her stranded and Jane is forced to return to the manor. When she arrives, she finds the demeanor of her husband gone, and in its place a frightened and paranoid man unable to discern reality from fiction. Morning comes, and Augustine is himself again, but Jane knows deep within her bones that something is horribly wrong with her husband and the house she now occupies. A profound fear only magnified by her continued stay within the manor's walls. Placed within the realm of Crimson Peak, Rebecca, and Shirley Jackson, The Death of Jane Lawrence is an impressive gothic horror novel that fucked with my mind in the best way possible. Set in a dark version of Post-War England, packed full of supernatural and spooky vibes, this is one of the most brilliant and unnerving books that I have read all year. Part of the journey with this novel is in just how much it upends what is understood at any given moment. I started this off scared of the Crimson Peak comparison, and that feeling really never went away because of how often the book turned all of my expectations on their head. The first section is ominous, hung over with impending dread that is drawn out like poison from a wound upon the first occurrence with Jane and Augustine at the manor. This was reminiscent of so many Gothic novels of the past, that sudden shift in tone from an incident, that traverses through to the end of the narrative. There was an unsteady ground between Jane and Augustine present in the first half, as both characters were hiding secrets from the other. Altogether, I loved not really knowing who to put trust in, as I fell into the book's rhythm to be entirely unpredictable. Past the first half of the novel is where the atmosphere twists into something slightly enigmatic. This is where I puzzled with the text a bit more and was left completely shattered by the end results. A tangled web that I endeavored to take apart in order to make sense of it all. While I will say this section could have been pared down, at that point, it was like the top of a rollercoaster and I was just along for the rest of the ride. In every respect, Caitlin Starling has created a haunting tale, charged with callbacks to iconic gothic fiction of days past. The Death of Jane Lawrence is an eerily brilliant novel that bends reality and twists the mind towards its breaking point. Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing this arc in exchange for an honest review. Trigger Warnings: blood, gore, violence, death, animal death, medical procedures
3888168465	3 starsWhen a novel's strength is also it's weakness; The Death of Jane Lawrence is a modern take on gothic fiction, incorporating elements of mathematics and metaphysics. While the final output suffers from over-writing, and drowning in its own complicated pseudo-logic, it is still an amiable exercise at re-invigorating a familiar setting.Caitlin Starling's detail-oriented prose shines when it comes to establishing settings and depicting surreal, grotesque supernatural incidents. But beyond these critical moments, this devotion for the minutia can be laborious to get through; the pacing never peaks because everything is dragged out by hollow textual busywork (no matter how beautifully written). You know this is an issue when chunks of paragraph can be skipped without losing the plot—the book can easily be 80+ pages shorter.Set in a fictitious universe, this 'alternate timeline' approach allows flexibility in imagining a world that is more fantastical than our historical reality. With the female protagonist being someone who's obsessed with logic and order, the story presents memorable moments where her belief is thoroughly challenged. On the flip-side, without a grounded context (and the book never fully fleshes out its own world), and threats repeatedly resolved by fabricated conveniences, I find myself losing empathy as The Death of Jane Lawrence becomes more and more outlandish. The final 'revelation' (No spoiler, but to those who've read the book it should be clear which chapter I'm referring to) is beautifully complex—would've been a daring move to end the book there, as the remaining material feels anticlimactic, drawing to a conclusion very typical to stories of this genre.Overall, The Death of Jane Lawrence excels in conjuring the foreboding atmosphere and the supernatural, but the narrative as a whole suffers from an imbalance of homage and new ideas. Still, there is enough polish here to make it worth checking out.***This ARC was provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Much appreciated!***
3077185301	gothic + historical + romance + ghosts + magic rituals this was very much my kind of book
3813972721	Do you like your gothic horror with a big slice of mind-fuck? Do you like a cast of characters, none of which you can trust? Then boy do I have a book for you. The Death of Jane Lawrence begins as a seemingly simple story. A marriage of convenience with a single condition. Jane is to never visit Lindridge Hall. A condition that is broken because this is a book we’re talking about and books require plots. What follows will have you questioning your own sanity and staying up late just to know more. Definitely a contender for best horror of the year.*thank you to the publisher for sending me an advanced copy of the book in exchange for an honest review
3886524084	This book both delighted and terrified me, in equal measure. A marriage of convenience trope? An old, crumbling and isolated manor? Yes, please. Jane Shorefield wants to marry, and as quick as she can, in order to maintain her independence. She chooses Augustine Lawrence, the beloved and mysterious town doctor. Augustine hesitatingly agrees on the condition that Jane should never set foot in his family home. But, of course, that plan falls apart as soon as the pair wed. Jane soon discovers inexplicable horrors within the walls of Lindridge Hall and the reason why her new husband wanted to hide it from her. I enjoyed this book thoroughly. Books don’t usually scare me, but this one definitely did. I’ve never watched Crimson Peak, so I don’t know if it compares to that, but I can say I noticed Bluebeard similarities while reading this book. I loved Jane; she’s a smart, practical woman who goes on a journey in this book, facing things that she never would have considered possible before meeting Augustine. I will have to check out Caitlin Starling’s other works post-haste. Thank you Netgalley, St. Martin’s Press, and the author for an e-ARC of this book!
4416220511	I really wanted to like this book. Usually a horror, gothic novel is right up my alley. However, Jane got on my last nerve. One minute she claims to be indifferent. The next, she is a lovesick teenager panting over the good doctor. Then the belief that someone is going to go the miles she did to save a man she knew less than a week is unbelievable. I can ignore plot holes, but give a girl a break here. The ending makes zero sense and I refuse to reread it. This book tried to be too many things at once. It is all over the place. Major disappointment for me.
3631402363	THIS BOOK. It gave me nightmares, which is awesome. I'm probably not going to shut up about it either. If you think "Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell would be cool if it was scary," THIS IS FOR YOU. If you want Crimson Peak but TWISTED, this is for you!!
4355893110	2.5 stars
5130984701	2.5 stars I really liked the gothic vibes but I do not think that the characters were like-able or had any type of chemistry and just was plain boring like plain a few days old toast. The book is really fast paced in the beginning and then just drags out especially when the “magic” gets introduced. I feel like I still have so many unanswered questions and the answers I did get were not satisfying. the romance was also sooo quick in the beginning like they just met and they already want to make out? Idk it was not very believable. The best part about this book is the cover because THAT IS FULL ART I AM IN LOVE.
3876636337	My 2 star rating might seem harsh as there’s a lot of great aspects to this novel but unfortunately a couple BIG factors weighed it down for me.Full review to come on my YouTube channel:https://www.youtube.com/hollyheartsbooks
4232476229	A haunting gothic horror tale that leaves you guessing.
4138435788	Where do I begin?... This book was such a disappointment!It began so intrighing, a slow pace, yes but with the atmosphere of a new classic gothic, giving Crimson Peak vibes (I loved that). It captivated my attention entirely from the first page.But by the middle of the book it began not only to drag a lot, but it turned to another story completely, and not a good one may I say.It was so boring and confusing. You can't even manage to understand what drives the characters to do what they do and they change their minds and the way they see each other, over and over again. It was frustrating to keep reading. I only kept on going because I really don't like to dnf books and always want to know how they end.Sad to say it was one of my most anticipated books and didn't live up to my expectations: the second half ruined everyting the begining had awesomely built.I wouldn't recommend it. Sorry.
3792796683	If I had to describe the book in three words, I would say: math, magic, and drugs; thus you get The Death of Jane Lawrence!I liked the little nods to classic gothic lit tropes and novels/movies, such as Rebecca and Crimson Peak but I wasn't fully on board with this book. Don't get me wrong, Starling nailed the creepy atmosphere but the plot got too confusing and convoluted for my liking. If it was executed better, I would have rated this higher.The prose was the defining part of the novel and it was lovely, but the descriptive writing soon became redundant. The story dragged until the 50% mark and then it started to go in circles. The book could have easily been condensed without losing any of its meaning. I liked how the book delved into the occult and it went in a direction I was not expecting but it got too meta for my brain to comprehend. Using mathematical theorems, particularly the number “zero” signifying “everything and nothing” was such a fascinating way to describe a magic system, but I felt that Starling could have explained it more. Or maybe I'm just dumb as rocks and didn't understand a thing.Either way, it was a solid horror with a likable and smart protagonist. I’m not the person for this book but I’m sure there are readers out there who will love this!
3821697327	Three StarsDNF @ 60%I don’t read much fiction, but occasionally enjoy gothic horror- especially when it takes place in England. This book had a promising start, but at about the halfway mark went off the rails for me. I no longer have the will to invest the time to finish this.For a brief synopsis, this takes place in a fictional place called Great Breltain. Jane has lived with the Cunninghams most of her life, but now that they are moving away because of her “father’s” new judgeship, she is looking to marry. It sounds like this takes place in Victorian times (or earlier), where a woman needs to be attached to a man in society. So she proposes a marriage/business arrangement to young Dr. Augustine Lawrence. She already has performed accountant services for her father, so hopes to lend these talents to the doctor’s practice. Dr. Lawrence, while young and good-looking, has an air of melancholy and mystery. As a trial run of sorts, Jane is summoned to his surgery where a very chaotic scene of a man who has seemingly stabbed himself needs emergency treatment. It was a riveting account where Jane rose to the occasion assisting Dr. Lawrence in his life-saving ministrations. The immediate aftermath was a high for both, but the adrenaline soon unraveled with fear and doom. One of the terms agreed upon was that only Dr. Lawrence would stay/sleep at his family’s longtime residence, Lindridge Hall. Jane would remain at the home which housed the surgery. But of course, events unfold which land Jane at Lindridge Hall, where ghosts, blood, scorcery and a basement crypt make it a place to stay far away from! As I alluded to before, I was immediately drawn into this macabre tale, but just beyond the halfway point it became a muddled mess to read that made little sense. I felt tossed about in a violent rainstorm where my horse carriage turned over in the mud. I just don’t have the fortitude or desire to go on, so I rate this 3 Stars at the 60% mark.Thank you to to the publisher St. Martin’s Press for providing an advance reader copy via NetGalley.
4276895868	The ABSOLUTE AUDACITY people have to rate this so low, y’all don’t know taste or gothic horror. I feel like, as a gothic horror lover, it is my DUTY to shove this book in everyone’s face. Not gonna lie, I almost didn’t read this because the GR ratings are so low, but I’m so happy I did because it’s phenomenal?! Idk what the hell is going on here, but this book is gothic horror perfection!! Did I know what was going on the whole time? No. Was I on the edge of my seat, in love with the characters, and creepy ass house up on the hill (not literally on a hill but you get the picture)? Yes. Did I think I was delusional? Yes. Did I think Jane was delusional, hallucinating out of her mind? Yes and then no, and then yes, and finally I DON’T KNOW. But that’s what makes this book so deliciously captivating & creepy as hell. Jane Shoringfield is a logical woman, a woman who is most at ease with her ledgers and numbers. Being the extremely logical woman she is, Jane decided that she would prefer a more businesslike marriage, as opposed to a love marriage. So what does she do? She compiles a list of the best suitors, as logical women do, and ding ding ding finds herself running to the alter with the town doctor. It ends up being a love marriage and they live happily after LOLLLL. If only. Turns out Jane bit off a little more than she can chew, in classic gothic horror protagonist fashion, and not only ties herself to the town doctor, but to his creepy manor. A manor in which she is never to visit, and yet she does, and that, my friends, is where all logical packs it’s bags and walks right out the door. So begins the wild, and absolutely creepy, tale of dark magic, hauntings, and Jane trying to figure out what exactly is going on at Lindridge Hall, and with her husband, and ME trying to figure out if Jane has absolutely lost it, or if she should kill her husband and burn the manor down. The Death of Jane Lawrence is hauntingly atmospheric, with narration and descriptions that kept me in a constant state of unease and uncertainty, add in spells written in blood, a whirlwind victorian romance and a foreboding gothic manor, and BAM! I have a new favorite, and nightmares… probably some nightmares. I love when I finish a book thinking “…. what… in the hell did I just read…?” And that’s exactly how I felt after finishing The Death of Jane Lawrence, absolutely Mindfucked and happy about it. I honestly loved everything about this, and I can’t wait to purchase a copy (I rented it from the library :) ) so I can set it right next to my much loved copy of Rebecca. **Also the blurb describes it as having Crimson Peak, Rebecca, and Shirley Jackson vibes and the answer is YES TO ALL
3802242667	3.75⭐️What a fun time. Thoroughly enjoyed our MC Jane
4324344590	If your future husband proposes with a ring made out of human bone, it's probably a red flag, rather than a romantic gesture.
4546288380	2.5 rounded up to 3. I may not write an entire review, so here are my thoughts in a nutshell. This became unnecessarily gory and gross after reaching the halfway point. It also became very repetitive and dragged on quite a lot at the end and became very existential in nature. Definitely not my cup of tea, but if you are a fan of gothic horror/romance mixed with fantasy and existentialism, you may enjoy this one. Otherwise, I’d skip it.
4354949454	A combination of the October BookPage at our county branches and a certain coworker’s recommendation is all I need when it comes to picking new horror books to read. The cover looked great, and the synopsis hinted at a gothic, haunted house so I was ready dive right in as soon as I got my hands on The Death of Jane Lawrence by Caitlin Starling.The novel follows the main character, Jane, who decides that it is an opportune time to get married as a sort of a business agreement since she doesn’t see love in her future. She does her due diligence and picks the town doctor, Augustine, as her top marriage candidate believing that with some convincing that this marriage could be fruitful for both. They eventually agree and set some ground rules for the marriage, but it isn’t long before happenstance decides to dash those rules exposing Jane to the mysteries surrounding Augustine and his decrepit estate. She must dig through the mysteries surrounding Augustine and his friends instead of wanting to remain ignorant since she truly might have fallen in love with him. You see, this isn’t a story bound in realism so expect some magic and paranormal hijinks. In fact, this story takes place in an alternative reality. I must confess it took me a while (between 20-40 pages in at least) to understand the setting since I didn’t read the whole synopsis. I didn’t realize this took place in an alternate reality of a past war-torn England. I was trying to look up the named towns and certain ethnicities only to find myself confounded at every turn at which point I finally had an epiphany after finishing the synopsis. Since this was based in an alternative reality, it made sense that certain things unfolded the way they did towards the latter half of the book. I was glad that the book only followed one POV since it kept the reader guessing at mysteries and lies told by certain characters. I really did like Jane as a character with how human she seemed. At first, she was this closed off person dealing with childhood tragedies who was also clever with math and picking up unknown things. Her shortcomings were obvious, yet her drive in getting what she thinks she wants and confronting problems she has directly really warmed her to me. The inclusion of math into the story was nice especially how it was used later since math seems almost the cornerstone of how Jane sees the world. Augustine was a complex character where I liked and disliked his character while also pitying him a little bit. The rest of the characters were typical supporting cast characters except for one of Augustine’s friends who helps our main character. The premise of being in an alternative universe was used to explain why (view spoiler)[ Magic and creatures (hide spoiler)] existed, yet I still think it could have done without renaming cities and countries that were portrayed. The traditional gothic start in the first half of the book was fun to read with creepy parts and certain mysteries surrounding the good doctor and his abode. There was a certain event that occurred later in the book that flipped the story on its head. Even then I was still invested in the story until the story again started changing after an event with an immovable door. From there, our characters started spiraling and a lot of metaphysical and timey-wimey stuff started happening. The only thing I can really say about the later part of the book and the ending was that it was weird and took me out of the story. There is a reveal at the end as well that felt inspired by The Haunting of Hill House series. The novel left me with unanswered questions and the ending felt unsatisfying to me.Overall, I liked the book with the eerie gothic feel, but the latter half got too metaphysical and weird for me. I would say that this book is a combination of Crimson Peaks and The Haunting of Hill House . Seeing how I did enjoy the writing and the story in the book, I look forward to reading more books by Caitlin Starling. Find this book and other titles within our catalog.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3344567040	I received an advanced copy of this book from the publisher via GoodReads in exchange for an honest review.This book is a mess. It's way too long; halfway through you feel like the story is amping up for the final act, but no. The choice to make this a Dark Mirror version of the UK felt unexplainable to me. The world building choices felt like ONLY plot devices that really didn't make sense in the world overall (how do you have a country that's been "shelled and gassed" in war yet everyone still rides in carriages? Why, in a world populated with many professional women, does an ambitious single woman feel the need to marry a STRANGER instead of going to university??).I definitely skimmed the last half of the book. It was just so tedious.
3175529083	4 starsCalling all fans of Mexican Gothic....This is not a book for the meek, it's a book for those of us who loved that story and are looking for a more intense, Gothic-a-la-Victorian version of it with more magic and more medical gore. Plot: ★★★★Pacing: ★★Horror elements: ★★★★★ Engagement: ★★★ 1/2Jane Shorefield lives her life by the numbers. A rare female accountant in a world that feels like Victorian England, she's done the math and decided that she needs a husband--and after careful consideration of the bachelors in her small town, she decides on Dr. Augustine Lawrence. Augustine is single, attractive, and respectable, with a well-paying job as the town's only doctor. He's a great match. It is weird that Augustine is still single and seemingly not interested in marriage...but Jane decides to give it a try. She proposes a business transaction: they'll get married to save Jane from spinsterhood and to provide Augustine with a live-in woman to help him with his practice's accounts. Augustine agrees. Now Mrs. Jane Lawrence, she discovers several things in quick succession. First, Augustine's practice is filled with death and the dying--for a woman who only thought about the numbers involved, it's a rough awakening to be thrown into a hectic and gory surgery on her first day in the practice. Second, her husband refuses to let her spend the night in his family estate outside of town. His vicious vehemence takes her aback. Jane agrees, but like all good stories we know that doesn't last. Third, there's something Augustine isn't telling her. Jane can't expect anything more, as she knows they did this for convenience and not for love, but there's something under the surface that Jane can feel at the edges of their relationship. What is it? When a simple miscommunication leads to Jane arriving at the estate, everything begins to change. Jane quickly realizes that her world is not what it seems.... and at the heart of the wrongness is Augustine. Gross, gory, and enrapturing, The Death of Jane Lawrence was a doozy of a novel. The sense of menace in the writing was top tier. From the beginning, you can feel the trap closing around Jane despite her point of view trying to make logical sense of her surroundings. I was waiting with baited breath for the shoe(s) to drop. (Boy, do they ever.)Once Jane gets to the estate and things start to happen, the pacing and plot develops into its final form of intricately paced and plotted horror. I both loved the pacing and absolutely hated it. It was too slow for me, but I couldn't stop? That duality carries throughout the entirety of this novel. You're attracted and yet repelled, boring and yet enraptured, disgusted and yet understanding. Intense. I liked it a lot for what it was, but count this one in the category of "I can't believe I liked this, it was so dark and twisted" fiction such as Mexican Gothic, Follow Me to Ground, and others. Spoilers for the graphic elements: (view spoiler)[Detailed description of graphic surgeries (including one pregnant one and another abdomen-related surgery), detailed description of a ritual involving cutting open a woman and dealing with her heart, frequent body horror, climax relies almost entirely on a scene around another graphic abdomen surgery and growths. (hide spoiler)]Thank you to the publisher for my copy in exchange for an honest review.Blog | Instagram
3895601443	The Death of Jane Lawrence, a horror/gothic novel, was a solid 4 star read. The book centers around Jane-a young woman that is sensible well beyond her years. After much thought, she is determined to marry Dr. Augustine Lawrence. A marriage that Jane believes will be both practical and successful for both of them, as she’ll help him with the accounting for his business and he’ll give her the independence she so desperately craves. Things take an eerie turn after they are married-as she stays in Lindridge Hall (the doctor’s creepy and dilapidated home), she starts seeing bone-chilling things, things that her husband swears are just bad dreams. Who is her husband exactly and what is he hiding?! The Death of Jane Lawrence is a well-written and entertaining book. I enjoyed the creepy atmosphere and the cast of characters throughout the book, especially Jane as a strong and sensible woman. Highly recommend to fans of dark/horror books. Thank you NetGalley and the publisher for providing me a copy in exchange for an honest review.
4146652673	On paper this should be 100% up my alley, a gothic horror in an alternate history, with an independent heroine who loves math. I liked the first third pretty well, then as more magic entered the story I started to lag, and I had to really push through to finish. The best guess I have as to why this didn't really work for me is that I didn't really know what the stakes were. The magic stuff was unclear to me and so much of the book is Jane by herself. I really enjoyed Starling's debut, which also had a lot of protagonist-by-herself, but at least then we had a second character who may not have been physically present but was seeing everything and speaking to her. I don't know if this is a book with some significant flaws or if it's one of those cases where me and the book are just not the right fit for each other.
4326108057	Gothic historical fiction is a lot funnier when you remember they were high as fuck on cocaine all the time3.5/5
4275255181	This is a strange case of the ending hurting the book. I loved the gothic tale; the pacing was a bit meandering but not excruciatingly. It WAS a gothic novel, after all, so I expected the slower pace. As a character, I enjoyed Jane quite a lot. The magic is what hurt this novel. The rules were not well defined, and these passages had a lot of muddling and an unfinished feel. The book did not feel finished. I was surprised to see that this is not a series book. It felt like a great setup for a series, which definitely makes it lose some luster for me. Overall, it was worth a read, but not one I see myself revisiting. It feels too unfinished for me. I love the setup and felt left down.Solid 3 Stars.
4960826884	I am so confused but BY GOD did I vibe.
4164622396	I like strange. I like twisted. I like mind bending. If you like these types of reads with some fear, go for it. I'm still a little bit hungover from it, but I liked it
4797296201	This book starts out as a creepy gothic novel about a woman named Jane who sets up a marriage of convenience for herself and soon discovers the doctor she has married has secrets and now she’s in a bind. Ooooh! Secrets! My favorite! So Jane moves into the home of Doctor Augustine (I’ll just call him Doc because I’m lazy) and soon realizes he’s quite mysterious but oops, it’s too late, she’s already started to fall for him. Damn love will getcha even when you don’t want it. Because she now has feelings and new hopes and dreams for her future, she is able to excuse away some of his eccentricities. Until she can’t . . . I wasn’t crazy about Doc but love is blind, as they say, and I wasn’t married to him so what do I care? I went along with things just giving him the side-eye. You might not be as forgiving when the mysteriousness begins to look more like gaslighting. Anyhow, I loved this entire setup. I truly did. I thought I was on my way to a five-star read but then the last third happened, and I got lost and confused and I never recovered. I wasn’t mad at the turn of events because I had read a few reviews and knew what I was headed into, but it simply didn’t work out for me and that’s ok. It happens. It. Is. Fine.I hesitate to say anything else without revealing spoilers. You probably don’t even want to read the title come to think of it 😳 Anyway, I would say give it a go if you like a very weird gothic dark romance and you aren’t as easily confused as I am.
4359200548	Jane Shoringfield's guardians are moving to a place that holds a lot of trauma for her. Instead of going, she decides on a marriage of convenience. She settles on Dr. Augustine Lawrence. He is hesitant, but Jane's prodding makes him bow to her wishes with one specific request. She must never spend the night at his place, known as Lindridge Hall. Unfortunately people gathered in a procession to escort them to that one place Jane promised not to spend the night. Lindridge Hall. Later that afternoon, Jane is on her way back to Augustine's surgery when the carriage wrecks and the road washes out. She is forced to retreat back to Lindrisge Hall with no option but to spend the night. Jane is convinced he's concerned about her opinion of the state of disrepair the house is in, but she'll soon discover that things aren't as they seem. The beginning was good, but it just lost steam very quickly and eventually derailed. I didn't really connect with the characters or the plot. I found it moved along at a snail's pace with little tid bits of action thrown in. There was nothing here that made me want to pick this up and read it. Unfortunately, I can't recommend this one. My appreciation to St. Martin's Press, author Caitlin Starling, and NetGalley for gifting me a digital copy of this book. My opinions are my own.
4057069839	QUICK TAKE: as a HUGE fan of THE LUMINOUS DEAD, I was really looking forward to the latest from Caitlin, but unfortunately, while I really dug the opening of this book, I ended up DNF'ing the last 50 pages. The mystery never really took off for me and I found myself bored with characters and confused as to what their motivations were. I liked the idea of exploring magic and science the medical field in that time period, but it just never came together for me. Still interested in reading additional books by the author, thoough.
3987939110	A magnificent ode to gothic horror, Starling meticulously unravels beloved tropes to create a horrifically satisfying creation of her own. I loved every moment of this unsettling and brilliant tale!
3964254566	Simply beautiful, haunting and horrifying. I adored how this book started, and the weird romance I didn't expect to root for. The atmosphere and the setting (a dark fantasy version of post-war England) that Starling assembled kept me engrossed right to the end to the extent that I felt trapped at Lindridge Hall alongside our characters. I was absolutely fascinated by the development of this world (that I hope to see more of in the future), and every storyline, especially of Augustine's past as it was sewn together chapter by chapter.Unfortunately, I did prefer the first half of the book over the second half. I hoped the ending would deliver a more satisfying, meatier backstory than we got. However, I understand that that wasn't the point of this story, and I loved it as a whole nonetheless. The conclusion did pull at my heartstrings; I was completely attached to Jane and Augustine from their unconventional beginning, so I knew The Death of Jane Lawrence was always going to ruin me. Thank you so much St. Martin's Press for this advance reader copy. I thoroughly enjoyed it and recommend it to everyone who also loves gothic horror. (4.5 stars)
3800869020	The climax for this one made my brain hurt 😂I’m so confused about how to start this review. I started out really liking this book, the gothic horror vibes with a mix of Jane Eyre. But around the halfway-ish point my brain started to feel as jumbled as Jane was and not in a good way. I enjoyed Jane being a character that just grabbed life by the horns and didn’t let others dictate how she was doing to live her life but the whole setting seemed to clash. We have more modern settings mixing with historical so it was hard to get a good grasp of a time period. The last 30% is where things really started to hurt my head. I think there should have been less of an info dump and an “easier” more logical way for it to have gone. Maybe I’m just not smart enough for this one 😂
4069385684	Thanks to St. Martins Press for an advance copy in exchange for an open and honest review.On the surface, this book seems like it would have been right up my alley, but as it turns out, Jane Lawrence and I are not a good match. This book is lacking in both atmospheric setting and depth of characters, two details that are key to any book, but especially in the horror genre. While I did get some sense of the post war landscape such as gas light vs. electricity and the horse carriage vs automobile, there was little to no other details that help put the reader in that particular environment. The entire story took place in one of two locales, which did nothing to broaden my sense of the times and world this story took place in. Also, the fact that the story took place in an alternate British reality served absolutely no purpose. It was just as if the author was trying to think of some whimsical way of making the book different and unique, but then did no world building at all to help immerse you into that setting.On top of that, all of the characters were two dimensional ideas of people as opposed to fleshed out and detailed protagonists/antagonists that make you care about and feel invested in the story. Jane wants a strictly business arrangement in her marriage, yet almost instantly starts having feelings for her new husband. That's poor storytelling. At least take the time to nurture the relationship into what you want it to be. She's not allowed to stay at his family home for some lame reason, yet THAT VERY NIGHT, where does she stay?? Poor storytelling. Don't rush things for convenience or out of laziness. If you want a horror novel that really puts the reader IN the story and then gives you goosebumps all the way through, go to your local bookstore and look under the Stephen King section. That's where it's at.
4320954031	Mind🤯. This is the best spooky book that I've read in a long time. I need some mustard for my mind pretzel.
4227304524	A wonderful creepy twisting gothic haunted house experience
3947299362	Thank you to the publishers and Edelweiss for the ARC in exchange for an honest review. I would say this hit at about 4.5 stars for me.I have to say I’m not usually a horror reader but because this had a fantasy element and came recommended by an author I follow (Lyndall Clipstone) I decided to give it a shot! I had read the author’s novella Yellow Jessamine and it was decent but I didn’t love it. The Death of Jane Lawrence had been compared to Crimson Peak, Mexican Gothic, Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell, Ninth House, Rebecca, Haunting of Hill House, and more, so I had high hopes for it.The Death of Jane Lawrence follows Jane Shoringfield, a practical and logical woman who decides she must get married as her guardians are moving away and she will no longer be able to afford to live with them. She makes a list of suitors and decides the town’s doctor and trained surgeon, Augustine Lawrence, is the most fitting candidate. So she gives him a proposal: we marry, but it is a business agreement, I will work for you, I will live separate from you, and we’ll both have our freedoms. Augustine, eventually, accepts, on the one stipulation that Jane must never spend the night at his crumbling estate, Lindridge Hall.But on the night of their wedding, as Jane is taken back to the town, Jane’s carriage is swept away in a flash flood/mudslide, and Jane is forced to make the trek back to Lindridge Hall and stay the night. But the Augustine she left at sunset is not the Augustine she finds during the storm: instead a haunted and terrified man who barely recognizes her.The Death of Jane Lawrence turns into part haunted house story, part gothic love story, and part mystery fantasy, as Augustine is haunted by the patients he’s lost and a past he doesn’t like to speak of, Jane sees reflections of a woman with blood red eyes following her, Jane is led into a secret society of magicians, and the painful and deadly cost of magic becomes clear.I was completely fascinated by the beginning of this book. I loved the marriage of convenience trope, that, naturally, turns into more. I related quite a bit to the main character, Jane, as a more logical person myself. I loved Jane and Augustine’s relationship as it grew, which was a match made in morbid heaven. (Wedding bands made out of human bone!) Him being a surgeon added a sort of body horror into the story, as well as the magic system.I loved trying to decipher and figure out what direction this book could take. (Is the husband going to try to kill her? Is he a bad guy? What’s the deal with the ghosts? How much is this going to be like Crimson Peak?) and I am pleased to report that as the synopsis promises, The Death of Jane Lawrence did, in fact, completely overturn and upend all expectations. By the end of it, TDOJL was completely bonkers, in the best way possible.I think the beginning of the book closely follows books of the genre set before it, the marriage, the spooky and decaying big house, ghost sightings, (very much Crimson Peak inspired) but it diverges and completely takes a different direction than what you’d come to expect.I completely devoured this book, feeling as though I quite literally couldn’t turn the pages fast enough. I was compelled, a woman possessed, you could say! I read the first part of the book, stopped myself, then read the rest of the book the following night.By the end of it I was grappling with making sure I understood the climax/ending and feeling slightly crazed, adrenaline from this book left me reeling at 5 in the morning. I will say that this book does get fairly circular/confusing, so if people prefer more clear cut and straight forward climaxes & resolutions, I’d err on the side of caution before reading this, but I found I didn’t mind it!My oh-so-eloquent first thoughts upon finishing were probably: what in the absolute fuck. Wow.I will also note because I quite literally never read horror, I didn’t read it expecting to be scared. And I wasn’t. It was spooky and exciting for sure, though!I will definitely be buying this come October and can’t wait to add it to my print book collection. I absolutely LOVE the cover as well.
5028797721	This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/I really enjoyed this book! I was a little worried when I noticed that the reviews for this book were pretty mixed but it was really calling to me so I decided to give it a go, and was almost immediately hooked. I was drawn in by the creepy cover but I stayed for the story. I liked Jane right away and was very curious about how the story would play out. I am so glad that I decided to give this book a try.Jane doesn’t want to be a burden to the family she has been living with since the death of her parents so she decides that it is time to marry. She decides that Doctor Augustine is the best choice so she approaches him with a deal that they marry but that they keep it a business deal. She will take care of accounting so that he can focus on being the town’s doctor. She soon learns that she got a bit more than she bargained for. Augustine’s home holds a bunch of secrets that soon unravel. I was quite worried about what would eventually become of both Jane and Augustine. There were a lot of surprises worked into this story and I loved the fact that it kept me guessing until the very end.I listened to the audiobook and thought Mandy Weston did a fantastic job with the narration. I believe that this is the first time that I have listened to this narrator’s work and I was very impressed. I thought that her voice was the perfect match to bring this story to life. I felt like I was right there with Jane as she worked to get to the bottom of the secrets found at Augustine’s home. I am positive that her narration added to my overall enjoyment of this story.I would recommend this book to others. I thought that this was a really well-done gothic story that kept me guessing until the very end. I would definitely read more of this author’s work in the future.I received a copy of this book from St. Martin’s Griffin and borrowed a copy of the audiobook from my local library.
3626298004	The Death of Jane Lawrence is a deliciously dark gothic horror that I immediately fell in love with. With a gorgeous, haunting atmosphere, a detailed, slow-burn plot, and all of the grisly, fantastical strangeness you could want. If you want a book that has the vibes of a traditional gothic novel and a mind-blowing conclusion, you need to pick this one up! Not to mention how gorgeous the cover is!⁣Thanks to St Martin's Press and Netgalley for providing me with an advanced copy in exchange for an honest review! Follow me on my Blog, Twitter, and Instagram.
3877738214	I don't think I have ever encountered a book that began so promisingly - a kind of neo-Gothic seemingly modeled after the masterpieces of Ann Radcliffe - but then from about the halfway point, became so disjointed, repetitious, tedious and nonsensical, that by the three quarters mark I was sorely tempted to DNF it. And despite trudging on, I should have trusted my instincts and abandoned it... sadly, the final 150 pages had nothing to warrant finishing the book.
3806858006	augustine, augustine, augustine! oh shut up augustine
3800378518	literally dead book club liveshow https://youtu.be/-_bIMQALC7Q
4057135563	WOW.This is my first book by Caitlin Starling and it most certainly will not be my last! To be fully transparent with you, I requested this ARC on NetGalley 100% because I thought the cover art was extremely interesting and piqued my curiosity. The book description cemented that it would be a great choice, based on my tastes.I intended to just read a couple of chapters the night that I started, but I was instantly hooked by this book. Instantly. I read until my eyes couldn't stay open anymore. I'm someone who typically has 4-5 books going at a time, but the next morning when I woke up - my first thought was of this book. I was completely obsessed. There was a portion in the latter section of the story that was dragged out a touch too long and was a bit boring, but the author really slammed a homerun with what she did following that part.Enough gushing - let's chat about this book. It is a gothic horror threaded with mystery and anticipation. The creep factor was on point and prevalent throughout - which I loved. I did think early on the author revealed something too early and that it would ruin that whole "I'm a bit hesitant to turn the page for what may happen next, but too addicted not to" feeling - but again, the author was able to regain it in a different fashion that I thoroughly enjoyed.The story is unique in that a young woman, Jane, proposes to the new town doctor, Augustine. Jane is an orphan whose guardians are moving and Jane does not want to be a burden upon them as her funds are running low. Jane loves her quiet, in the background life and feels this business arrangement in the form of marriage will be the perfect solution.Ah, but the heart wants what it wants, does it not? The terms of their arrangement are quickly discarded and even though Jane is not supposed to ever visit Augustine at his home, a series of unfortunate events find her there and tangles the couple up in a house that is filled with mystery.....and death.I loved this story. I love the use of logic and supernatural. The character of Jane was so easy for me to relate to and attach my emotions to. I had heard this book compared to tales by Shirley Jackson, House of Leaves and Rebecca and I can definitely confirm that those are accurate.I fully intend to read more of Starling's work - it is always a wonderful experience to love a book so much that you also fall in love with the author!
4273993444	Gonna be honest, I skimmed the last 100 or so pages of this; it was about all that I could do to cope. Tedious narration, one-dimensional characters, and poor world-building meant THE DEATH OF JANE LAWRENCE ended up being nothing that I expected... and not in a good way. A real disappointment, it was one of my hotly anticipated releases this month. I can always find room in my cold, cold heart for a good Gothic horror novel, but this one really failed to deliver on that atmosphere. Boo.
4258911492	this vibed.
4263280937	The Death of Jane Lawrence begins with a woman who is asexual and, quite possibly, autistic. She sees the relationships that others have and does not want that, and moreover, also does not feel she is capable of having a relationship like that even if she wanted to. She thinks in numbers and deals in logic (which is really cliche) and therefore, when her guardians move to a different town, she decides to marry someone she doesn't know instead of move, because clearly that's her only choice.Logic is off to a great start.After knowing Augustine Lawrence for a grand total of two days, our previously asexual heroine is revealed to be a heterosexual with an allosexual's sex drive, and she fervently makes out with her fiancee. Which is annoying, since I thought we were getting ace rep, and if we're not, the author knows it's okay to give female characters a healthy sex drive, right? It doesn't have to be couched in repression? It just seems really fast for Jane to get over her original opinions about sex. Unfortunately, this is indicative of the entire novel. The book is predicated on magic, and how it wrecks havoc and distortions and abnormal growths, but magic is a dirty word. Religion, Jane sanctimoniously tells us, was abandoned after the war with the book's version of Russia. Religion now only exists in silly superstitions. Which clearly isn't how religion works. However, I also think that Starling has confused working magic with organized religion. Or maybe I'm supposed to be seeing them as separate, but Starling doesn't explain any of this well enough to make it clear. For most readers, who don't care about religion the way I do, this might all be forgivable. But can we talk about how, when (view spoiler)[ Dr. Augustine Lawrence is locked up in the crypt, (hide spoiler)] Jane is sent to take care of a little boy with scarlet fever because, out of everyone in the entire novel, it was arbitrarily decided that she would be the most likely to save the boy's life, since she had assisted at a grand total of--gasp!-- two surgeries! Wow, exactly the sort of nurse I hope to see at my bedside when I am suffering and ill. Except (view spoiler)[ who'd a thunk that Jane would end up bleeding the boy dry and ultimately killing him?!?! Not me, I assure you *eye roll* (hide spoiler)]. Like COME ON. Finally, this book is probably set in a half-Victorian, half-WWI universe, one in which "Great Breltain" (aka Great Britain) goes to war with Ruzka (aka Russia) and the Russians bomb the country with various gasses, etc, but the ordinary folk are still using gas lighting in their homes. So can someone explain to me why Jane is described as wearing a pair of stays when she ought to be wearing a corset???Anyway, this book was not scary. It was actually kind of silly. And definitely nothing at all like Crimson Peak which is what The Book Review promised me.
3884380131	The premise really piqued my interest: Jane proposes a business arrangement type of marriage to the town surgeon, Augustine Lawrence. One of the terms agreed upon is she will never visit his manor, Linridge Hall. This sounded super spooky and the idea of a gothic manor that may possibly be haunted made me grab at the library. Of course, Jane finds herself stranded at Linridge and that's when things get creepy, then they get absurd and then it gets confusing. I have a hard time reading period pieces that take place in this era. I know it seems closed minded but my mind just can't stay focused on the wording and writing style. With that said, once I started getting into the first few chapters I acclimated and found myself enjoying it for a very short amount of time.It feels like this was broken into three parts:Part 1: 2.5 stars. It took me awhile to get into but once I did and followed Jane through her trip to Linridge as well as the spookiness that occurred I kind of started liking itPart 2: 1.5 stars. Magic and Math. Nope....just Nope. I skimmed. It took way too many chapters and these are two of my least favorite things. This is where it went to absurd and I lost interest.Part 3: 3 stars I actually really enjoyed the last few pages! I would say the ending wasn't clear cut but it held my attentionAll in all rounded up to 2.5. This was just not for me, but others who enjoy this genre/type of book very well may
4235246782	Pragmatic Jane Shoringfield has decided that a marriage serving more as a business arrangement is her ideal path and Dr. Lawrence is the candidate she’s fixated on. He agrees to her proposal with one small contingency: She is not to visit him at his family home. Unfortunately, a treacherous storm brings her to his doorstep one evening and she finds that the good doctor is not all that he appears to be in the daylight. This began in such a clever, compelling fashion - so much so that I was determined not to let the logical minded Jane’s insta-love persuade me that I wouldn’t love this. The gothic tone was phenomenally captured and the descriptive writing painted such vivid imagery, sometimes horrifyingly so. While the build may have been slow, the mysterious Dr. Lawrence was an intriguing character and I wanted to know more about all that he was hiding. Starling certainly never deviated from her dark, detailed writing, but the story dragged on for me as time went on. The second half of the audiobook felt like a chore to get through. I found it chaotic and it failed to live up to the chilling ghost story I thought I’d invested myself in. Additionally, there was so much repetitiveness, as well superfluous usage of descriptive words, meaning the author used one word and then a short string of similar words, like a thesaurus entry, to emphasize her point. While this may have been prevalent in the first half, it wasn’t until the story lost its powerful hold on me that my awareness and annoyance heightened. I would like to note that the audiobook narrator was spectacular! Her voice carried the story well and her ability to do another accent immaculately was impressive. However, because of the convoluted nature of the second half, I think I may have had an easier time processing this story in text form. Ultimately, The Death of Jane Lawrence strayed from what I’d expected and wanted, which doesn’t mean there is something wrong with the story. It simply indicates that I was not the right reader for it. I’d absolutely encourage anyone interested in this book to give it a try. I am immensely grateful to Macmillan Audio for my audio review copy through NetGalley. All opinions of my own.The Death of Jane Lawrence will be out on October 5, 2021.
3887075394	to keep it short and sweet, this was…FINE. I really loved the setting and descriptions, it read like a gothic horror film set in the 1800s. unfortunately for me it felt like the story just kept going on and on, around in circles, and I felt myself tuning out a lot in the middle of the book
3806876498	I truly, from the bottom of my heart, hated this. It started off so promising for me. It has all the things I love—gothic manors, English village life, a mysterious marriage, and the promise of ghosts. Totally in my wheelhouse. Unfortunately, by 16% I wanted to throw this book (well. my phone. I listened to the audiobook) across the room. It was so nonsensical and Jane’s motivations were infuriating. For a book that has logic as a central theme, homegirl had *none*. Not an ounce of logic in any of her actions. The world building was shoddy. The ending was unsatisfactory. The was absolutely no character development. The side characters were one dimensional. The romance was unbelievable and instalovey. What even was this time period?! The mentions of war felt so unnecessary and there was no other indication that this book took place in a post-war society. I found the ending to be so convoluted and messy. I’m trying to think of something redeeming about this and the only thing I’ve got is that the way I envisioned the manor to look is cool. That’s it. Overall, this was a giant disappointment and I’m kind of bummed that I wasted my weekend on this instead of DNFing. 2 stars instead of 1 because I finished it. Would not recommend.
4314379919	This started off amazing. A nod to all the Gothic books I love. Then the last 100 or so pages took a weird ass turn and I honestly do not know what I just read. Jane lives with her guardians, the Cunningham. They are getting ready to move to Camhurst and Jane knows she cannot really afford the lifestyle they intend to live while there. She decides the best thing to do is marry but only as a business proposition, not for love. She has her sights on Dr. Lawrence only he says he cannot marry. She convinces him but the stipulation is she cannot stay at his house at night, ever. She agrees, but of course that does not happen. There is a bad storm and she is forced to stay at Lindhurst house and weird, strange things start to occur. The book had me the first 200 pages. I was loving it. But the last 150 was just so odd and nothing made sense. I found myself more confused and annoyed. I forced myself to finish as I really just wanted to stop reading it. I am so bummed because this book looked so good and had such promise. Sadly it just was not for me.
5425369115	This book was beautifully gothic in every way possible: the setting, the atmosphere, the writing style, the unhinged woman in an isolated crumbling manor.It gave me such strong Crimson Peak vibes, which isn't surprising, considering that movie is also a gothic masterpiece (and, therefore, one of my favourite films).I loved the gothic horror in this one. Some scenes were incredibly disturbing, getting under my skin in the way gothic horror should. The inclusion of surgery scenes really added to this and made me crave more books with Victorian medicine.I can't wait to get my hands on more of Caitlin Starling's writing.
5886328023	The Luminous Dead is my favourite horror book I've ever read, and I like gothics, so it's a surprise that I didn't like this. The beginning was strong, but the middle started to drag, and then the ending felt convoluted. I spent the first third of the book wondering why the average rating was so low and the rest of it getting that answer. There are interesting elements here, but overall it ended up being a slog to finish.
4258864251	Genre: Gothic HorrorType: Standalone POV: Third PersonRating: Desperate to retain her independence, Jane Shoringfield proposed a marriage of convenience with Dr. Augustine Lawrence. But the illusion of their perfect pact quickly shattered on their wedding night when his secrets started to unravel.I started this one blind, so I wasn’t sure what to expect. I’m pleased to say I enjoyed this creepy gothic story. It was spine-tinglingly atmospheric, and the characters were intriguing. Tough at times it felt tedious when it got too technical and confusing when explaining a character’s logic, the overall story was engaging. She had always been the logical one, the child obsessed with rules and procedure and schedule. A practical girl was frustrated and annoyed when her plans were disrupted; she didn’t feel this sort of distracting fear. What was she becoming? The Death of Jane Lawrence is a story of desperation and determination. It would appeal to readers who enjoy a Gothic horror with a tinge of Romance. ❌🧵❌ . . . (F)BR With Twinsie CC . . . ❌🧵❌For more reviews/interviews/promo visit:
3800769209	The Death of Jane Lawrence spoke to me immediately when I first saw the cover (compliments to the designer) and continued to do so as I read the synopsis. Recently I've been craving gothic romance and I'd actually just come out of one of my many Crimson Peak hangovers, looking for something similar to quench my thirst. Well let's just say, this book has not let me down. It's given me exactly what I wanted for about half of the book and then it added a twist, a huge twist to the second. I personally feel like it was a great idea and it worked, BUT I can also see the last quarter, or third even, of the book losing some readers along the way or might require them to read some passages multiple times to keep up. Not necessarily because it is so hard to understand, but rather because it comes a bit out of left field if you're expecting just a classic ghost story with some romance sprinkled in. This is not just that, and I enjoyed it. Some of the concepts surrounding magic in this book felt so oddly familiar and logical that I ocassionally had to take a break from reading because it got too real. That to me was far more frightening than any ghostly elements. The only thing I didn't like that much was the pacing, which seemed off to me during important parts of the story. - Too fast in the beginning, mostly concerning the relationship of our protagonists with each other, but also when it comes to Jane's introduction. I feel like she could have been even more fleshed out early on to make connecting with her easier, to intensify the horrors we experience with her.- A little too slow in the last third of the book, right where I feel like it's important to grip the readers that are beginning to get confused about where it is we're heading. Besides that, I have no real gripes with the story and recommend it (especially as a fall read, come the release date in October).**Thank you to Netgalley and St. Martin's Press for this advance copy in exchange for an honest review.
3820158268	Thank you St. Martin's Press for the gifted review copy!I didn't really have many expectations when I started the book. I didn't know what to expect but I was ready to give the book all my time. I wanted to be creeped out, and honestly, this book delivered that and more. This is my first book by Caitlin Starling and her writing was wonderful. Had me sucked in from the first chapter. Everything about this book was mesmerising in the strangest way.Lindridge Hall had me in its thrall. Throughout the entire book, I was waiting for our main character to discover more about the house but at the same time, I was scared and worried about what we would find out. I wanted our main characters to leave but I also wanted them to stay, which is a weird thing to think if I'm being honest. The way the author described the setting and the things that were being seen really gave me the chills. It was so hard to put the book down because I wanted to keep discovering the secrets of the house, and what would happen to our characters.Our main character, Jane was an absolute delight. I loved how her mind worked. She was smart and strong, and even with everything that she had to go through and the new realities she had to face, she was determined through it all. She had some breakdowns (which were expected) but she pushed through it all. She felt realistic because of it. I went through a few emotions when it came to Augustine. I don't want to give too much so as not to ruin it but I did adore Augustine by the end of this book.It's true that I didn't know what to expect from this book but the ending still pretty much shocked me. I'm still a little confused about what happened but this book was everything I had hoped it would be. It delivered on the creepy and mysterious. Definitely gave me Ninth House vibes!
4317349513	I actually really liked the first half of the book. A gothic romance about an independent woman who arranges a marriage of convenience for herself only to discover that her unknown husband has unsavory secrets? Sounds cool. I love Rebecca, and Jane Eyre is one of my favorite novels, so I was ready for something in that vein. Then I hit the second half of the book. It turns out magic is real. Now, I love fantasy even more than gothic romance, so this should’ve been a fun twist for me. It wasn’t. The magical system is somehow both extremely boring and maddeningly convoluted. Magic, but make it math. So much time is spent trying to explain this system of magic that essentially boils down to “believing is seeing” + body horror. At one point, I thought that maybe our heroine had gone mad and that the novel was a horrific allegory for patriarchal marriage arrangements. Nope. The magic is real, and all that cocaine was actually for the best. At another point I thought maybe Jane was her husband’s first wife reincarnated. For a while, I thought this was going to do something interesting. Wrong on all accounts. Also, I find it very hard to believe that Jane would swoon so hard over her husband after knowing him for like ten minutes. I was excited for a story about an independent woman manipulating her patriarchal society, so I didn’t expect her to lose her mind over a guy and reshape her whole existence to revolve solely around him. Seriously. This was hemorrhaging stars by the end. I was gonna give it two to be nice, but when I said “how is this not over yet?” out loud to myself, I decided that it had far overstayed any goodwill it had scrounged up in the first half.
4309643194	My Blog | My BookTube | My Book Club | Instagram | TwitterA review will be up on my blog on November 16, 2021 at 10 am CST on Honey Roselea Reads for you guys to check out!My review on The Death of Jane Lawrence will be accessible using this link from November 16, 2021 at 10 am CST and onward.For now, here is a preview to what the review will look like:❀❀❀❀3.5 stars rounded to 4 on GoodreadsThe Death of Jane Lawrence shows young Jane Lawrence after her marriage to the esteemed Dr. Augustine Lawrence. But, unknowingly, she marries into something deeper, something, sinister. When Jane marries Dr. Augustine, she thought she would only be marrying into a business detail, where they could both work with each other side by side and not worry about love and relationship, and ... [ continue reading ]
6911841870	The Death of Jane Lawrence by Caitlin Starling is an eerie Gothic novel that blends romance, horror, and mystery in a story reminiscent of classic haunted house tales. The book follows Jane Shoringfield, a pragmatic young woman who marries Dr. Augustine Lawrence out of convenience, only to discover unsettling secrets about her new husband and his crumbling manor. The tension steadily builds, but the plot becomes overly complex and veers into confusing supernatural territory. While the book succeeds in mood and intrigue, the twists may disorient some readers. It is a solid choice for fans of Gothic horror who enjoy an intense, unpredictable read.What to listen to while reading...Heart Heart Head by Meg MyersBlood in the Cut by K. FlayFeral Love by Chelsea WolfeHoly by Zolita6 Underground by Sneaker PimpsI received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review!
4211026837	This would have been a 5 star read, but the second half of the book was so convoluted and boring that I started to struggle with whether or not I wanted to keep going. The writing was lovely and the atmosphere of the book was wonderfully gothic and creepy, but I don't understand why the author took the story where she did. Overall, I was a bit disappointed, but I decided to be generous with my rating because there were so many things I really loved about this story despite the unfortunate ending.
3809844796	the first third of this was 5 star level, especially considering the Rebecca vibes, but by the last half i was soooo bored from the pacing and where the story had gone. caitlin starling truly is a talent and her ideas are exquisite, but having now read both her books, i can say so far that she has great concepts and writing, but where it takes her leaves more to be desired. i am rooting for her, though, she's got something good locked in her, i'm sure of it.
3856634055	I received an eARC via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.As soon as I saw this book and read the synopsis, I immediately requested an arc from NetGalley. It sounded amazing and like the kind of books I read and enjoy a lot.The Death of Jane Lawrence by Caitlin Starling was pitched as having similar vibes to Crimson Peak, Rebecca, and Shirley Jackson. The story follows Jane Shoringfield, a practical and unassuming woman, who has decided that the most secure path she can follow is a marriage of convenience. This leads her to Augustine Lawrence, a talented and reclusive doctor. He agrees to her proposition with one condition: Jane must never visit his family estate, Lindridge Hall. She sees no problem with this condition until a storm and accident leaves her stranded at Lindridge on their wedding night. Jane finds Augustine changed, but he is suddenly back to his usual self by morning. However, she soon learns that something is very wrong at Lindridge Hall. I wanted to give this author a try before jumping into this arc, so I read The Luminous Dead first. I thought I would like that book too, but overall, it did not live up to my expectations. This made me incredibly hesitant to read Jane Lawrence even though I genuinely was super interested in it. Once I started reading it, I was immediately hooked! It took me a little longer to get into because I am pretty busy with some college stuff, but once I made time for it I was so invested. Starling’s writing is so beautiful and atmospheric. She expertly crafts her tale to build upon the gothic horror style. The writing contributed to me being more invested in the story as well. Starling had wonderful pacing throughout that helped the story flow and feel like it was naturally developing from one point to the next. I loved Jane as a character too.The ending portion of this book really picked up. I am not sure I can accurately describe what happened, but I think that was just part of the reading experience for me. I love when books are weird and do not always make sense with clear answers at the end, but there is still a part of me that will always want the answer. This book is what I mean though when I say I love strange, spooky books that kind of mess me up a bit by the end.The Death of Jane Lawrence definitely exceeded my expectations. Caitlin Starling crafted a story that will stick with readers long after the last page. It is haunting, horrifying, and beautiful all at the same time.*Content warnings from the author: gore/blood and body horror, descriptions of period-appropriate (Victorian Era) medical procedures and practices - sometimes without consent, drug abuse of period medical drugs, descriptions of PTSD and panic attacks, manipulation and gaslighting, self-harm in ritual context, ambiguous hallucinations/descriptions of uncertain reality or sanity, mild references to threat/risk of institutionalization, graphic accidental miscarriage/stillbirth, with surgical intervention, minor character child death (of natural causes)*Thank you to the publisher, St. Martin’s Press, and NetGalley for giving me the opportunity to read and review this book.
4245922868	3.5 rounded up!Great October spooky read! This book gave me some vibes of Things in Jars mixed with Practical Magic (with added horror elements). I started reading this right after I had finished Frankenstein and the Gothic horror quality is definitely present in The Death of Jane Lawrence. On the cusp of being a spinster, Jane makes a business arrangement with Doctor Lawrence for a marriage. He is not keen to marry, but agrees to the nuptials since Jane will help as the bookkeeper for his surgery and she is not requiring any romantic relationship as part of the deal. His one stipulation, however, is that she may never spend the night at his home Lindridge Hall…dun dun dun. The spooky Lindridge Hall is a character within itself and the author created a wonderful magical creepy world for this thriller! Despite my desire that the book would have a good section of the first half shaved off, the book really picked up in speed and excitement during the last third. I don’t read a ton of horror, but I felt this book had some great spooky moments!Thank you to St. Martin’s Press and NetGalley for granting me a free audiobook in exchange for my honest review!
4421007536	What a fever dream of a ride that I didn’t ask for! Again, we encountered an unnecessarily long book with this one. I’m giving two stars because at the beginning of the book I was certain that it was going to be a 5 star rating, I had no questions. Then it tanked. I found myself just thinking let’s cut to the chase here for at least the last third of the book, maybe longer. I don’t like when books ramble in incoherency for many many pages, I can BARELY deal with it from Erin Morgenstern and her writing is beautiful, the writing here wasn’t beautiful, it just became extremely annoying. I don’t really have much else to say about it, I just didn’t like the mess that the end of the book became. Starling tried to pull this twist at the end that was “going to” redeem her for subjecting me to hundreds of pages of crap but I’m not buying it. I don’t forgive you for that half assed twist!
