4396646372	A well-written, gripping, action-packed dark academia thriller is my true addiction! And this book is one of the best examples to satisfy my late-night thriller cravings.Who could say no to a smart, dark academia story set in Oxford, combined with a spine-tingling whodunnit mystery that keeps you guessing from the very beginning? Especially when it’s written by Ruth Ware! My nerdy brain screamed “hallelujah” as soon as I saw the blurb. Think Ashley Winstead’s In My Dreams I Hold a Knife meets Karen M. McManus’ Nothing More to Tell with a dash of The Maidens vibes. The book introduces us to a group of friends who are all so different from one another, each with hidden agendas, heads buried in their studies, yet still finding time for social gatherings, partying all night, and chasing their academic dreams.Hannah, a book-smart, shy, and practical girl raised by a middle-class family, is lured into the glamorous world of her roommate April’s luxurious, flamboyant, and elegant lifestyle. April Coutts-Clieveden has everything Hannah ever dreamed of: looks, charm, intelligence, money, and power. She wraps anyone she desires around her little finger, including Hannah’s first crush, Will—a quiet gentleman from a wealthy family.Poor Hannah has to restrain her feelings; she doesn’t want a boy to come between her and her best friend, April.I still wonder why Hannah thinks April is her best friend. All April does is speak condescendingly and act like a spoiled brat, pulling awful pranks on people. Well, perhaps Hannah, with her kind heart, is too naïve to see it, or maybe she simply doesn’t have the energy to make more friends.Let’s not forget the other members of their gang: the entertaining, sarcastic, and cheeky Ryan, who’s a hotshot socialist; the sharp, witty, and hyper-competitive math prodigy Emily (these two characters were my favorites); and the humble, reserved, yet incredibly smart Hugh.But one night, as the group celebrates after April’s theater performance, Hannah grows worried when April goes to their dorm room to change and never returns. When Hannah checks on her, she discovers that April is dead, and only moments ago, she had seen the Porter leaving their shared room—the same Porter, John Neville, who she had previously filed a complaint against for inappropriate behavior. And now, he’s found guilty of killing her friend.Then we fast forward ten years into the future (nope, no DeLorean time travel involved) to see how Hannah’s life has evolved. Hannah still misses April dearly and suffers terrible nightmares from that night, but she has managed to build a fulfilling life. She’s married to Will—yes, they found each other after the tragedy that upended their lives—and they’re expecting a baby. Hannah works at a bookshop, living a peaceful life in Edinburgh, though Will is struggling in his career as an accountant.The rest of the group has also moved on. Emily is now a successful academic, Hugh is a wealthy plastic surgeon, and poor Ryan’s life has changed dramatically after a tragic stroke. Yet, despite it all, he’s still happy with his wife and kids.And that’s it! The story ends with a semi-bitter conclusion. Okay, I lied! This is just the beginning!Hannah receives shocking news from her mother: John Neville has died in prison, and a young reporter, who happens to be a friend of Ryan’s, insists there is new evidence that could clear Neville’s name. Neville had always maintained his innocence, even on his deathbed.Hannah doesn’t want to get involved, but she still feels she owes it to April to uncover the truth. As she begins digging, she realizes that one of their close-knit group could be the real killer. Now, she’s put herself and her unborn baby in danger, and she’s at the point of no return. She has to finish what she’s started!Overall, this is a riveting, well-developed, intelligent, and captivating read!I was initially planning to give it 4 stars, but the fair conclusion, smart twists, and realistic characterization convinced me to add an extra half star, rounding up to 5 bright stars as a devoted fan of the author!Special thanks to NetGalley and Gallery Books/Scout Press for sharing this amazing digital review copy with me in exchange for my honest thoughts.
4833524204	Ruth Ware’s The It Girl is a mystery centered on two friends/roommates: Hannah Jones and April Clarke-Cliveden. The girls meet up at Oxford and quickly team up with a group of friends: Will, Hugh, Ryan, and Emily. However, by the end of the year, April is dead.Now, ten years have passed. Hannah and Will are expecting their first child, and April’s murderer, John Neville, has recently passed away. Then, a podcaster comes around asking questions. What is the truth? Does Hannah really know her friends as well as she thinks she does?The It Girl was on my list of July most anticipated books, but it tanked. And it tanked hard.To be completely honest, I might have rated this book higher if I had not just read Upgrade by Blake Crouch which was so completely awesome. Reading that book and then going to this is like eating the best meal of your life and just eating a regular meal.Where to start?This book is boring. It dragged over forever. I did not enjoy the ride. There are a few reasons.One, the writing style of this book just did not work for me. It is way, way, way too long. I would read and read and read and read and I would hardly make a dent in it. Second, the writing style of a thriller is important. Let’s go back to Upgrade for a moment, a writing style that just worked. It had short paragraphs and short sentences. This is important. When you read a thriller and you are madly flipping through pages, you have a physical experience. It actually feels that you are running and catching up to the bad guy, increasing your blood pressure, almost as if you are part of the story. In The It Girl, the paragraphs, sentences, and chapters are just too long.Third, the storytelling needed to be refined. If the author was sitting on a corner, relaying this story, I would have walked away. It didn’t capture my attention. The ending did not surprise me at all. It also was very boring and unremarkable. If you liked Greenwich Park, I think you will probably like this one as well. They both have main characters who are expecting babies who are working their way through mysteries set in England. Overall, if you have to buy either Upgrade or The It Girl, buy Upgrade.*Thanks, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and honest opinion.2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango
4508816136	For there are messy, wriggling, unfinished ends putrefying beneath the surface of what happened that night—things that she has refused to think about and look at for a long time. 3 1/2 stars. I was intrigued by the premise of The It Girl and mostly liked how it played out towards the end, but it's also 70-100 pages longer than Ware's other books and it feels like it.It's been 10 years since Hannah found her friend and roommate, April Coutts-Cliveden, dead in their Oxford room. 10 years since a combination of Hannah's testimony and some pretty shoddy investigating (if you ask me) put John Neville behind bars. Now he's died in prison and a couple of ambitious journalists are eager to revisit the case. One, however, is convinced that some things don't add up, that the evidence to convict Neville was never there, that the real killer may still be out there.The book moves between the present, in which a pregnant Hannah tries to get on with her life but finds herself unable to ignore the journalist's findings and their implications, and the past, which sees Hannah, April, and their group of friends navigating University life, with all the rivalries, bitterness and jealousies that sometimes come between competitive and horny young people.Everyone in their group and just outside it becomes a suspect, and I did have fun moving through each one, changing my mind about who did it and why. I thought the author played it well.Still, I'm feeling better about it now because I thought the end was quite good, but there were some really dragged out boring parts in the middle. Lots of pages of Hannah thinking over the same “but could it really be?” and rubbing her baby bump. It honestly just feels like the editing wasn't great on this book and could have done with another round to shave off some of the extra padding.
4686404547	Familiar Plot and Characters "She was the prefect friend--until she wasn't."The It Girl is a psychological thriller about a murder at Oxford and the woman who may have been responsible for the conviction of the wrong man for the crime.Before: Hannah Jones experiences imposter syndrome when she arrives at Oxford University to study literature. Her sparkly, rich roommate, April, has all in her thrall, but when April is murdered, Hannah’s newly crafted life implodes.After: Hannah, now pregnant and married living in Edinburgh, receives news that the man she testified against in April’s murder has died in jail. She begins questioning whether or not she was responsible for convicting an innocent man.The narrative alternates between “before” and “after” the crime, but both are told from Hannah’s point of view. I found both narrative threads boring, especially in the beginning. It took me a bit to warm up to Hannah. Her voice is dull, and I didn’t really care what happened to her until the end. I found the side characters much more interesting. The plot is one I have read before. Hannah even feels like other characters I have met before. I was hoping for more of an original storyline or at least a twist to make it a little more interesting. On the plus side, it is well-written; Ware has a talent for casting doubt on all characters. I was suspicious of all at one point or another, and this element kept me turning the pages. I hated Ware’s last book, One By One, and the good news is that I liked this one much more! Even though I was bored, I was invested enough in the plot to keep turning the pages--my inner armchair detective was piqued by all of the red herrings. I thought this book would never end, and even though it was a drag getting there, the ending finally adds some excitement.Overall, The It Girl is a solid thriller but loses stars for lack of originality.I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
5522600554	Najsłabsza Ruth Ware. Rozwiązanie jest bardzo mało solidne. Ale to wciąż wciągający kryminał
4936977206	a classic college campus murder mystery done well.this has everything you want from that kind of story - a close group of friends that is not immune to jealousy, stalking, cheating, and scandals. the only thing that would have made this a perfect read for me is if academia played a larger role. really, oxford only serves as the setting and a means for the characters to meet. and so, because of that, this definitely doesnt have that dark academia feel i was hoping for. but still a very enthralling read with a compelling group of friends and an intriguing “whodunnit.”↠ 4.5 stars
4649335801	With a name like April Coutts-Cliveden, she could be nothing other than an “it” girl…the one everyone wants as a friend. The one whose personality radiates. The one who’s living her best life…until she’s murdered.Hannah met April ten years ago when they were roommates at Oxford. They quickly became best friends, and always hung out together with their group. Then, Hannah found April murdered in their dorm. John Neville, an Oxford porter, was found guilty and sent to prison.In the present day, the only person Hannah really keeps in touch with from her Oxford days is Will, from their circle of friends. He’s now her husband, and they’re expecting. Hannah receives word that John Neville has died in prison. Instead of feeling relief, she feels a sense of dread as a journalist reaches out to her, saying that there may be evidence of Neville’s innocence. If Neville didn’t kill April, who did?Author Ruth Ware is hit and miss with me, but I’m glad to say this was mostly a hit. Ware creates tension and atmosphere in the brilliant way the chapters bounce from past to present, and there are certainly a number of suspects. Luckily, the cast of characters isn’t too large where it’s hard to follow who each person is. Everyone’s backstory is pretty fleshed out. I didn’t expect the ending. I found it really clever, but I have to admit I wasn’t completely blown away. Still, it’s always nice to be surprised whilst reading this type of novel. Overall, this is a solid mystery that kept me turning the pages even if it’s one that won’t be particularly memorable for me in the years (or weeks) to follow. I’ll be curious to see what fans of Ware’s earlier books think of this one. My favorite book of hers is the newer One By One, and this follows in its footsteps as a tale that feels a bit more modern. 3.5 stars rounded up. Thank you to Gallery/Scout Press and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. Expected Publication Date: 7/12/22. Review also posted at: https://bonkersforthebooks.wordpress.com
4526004534	BEFORE and AFTEREach chapter is broken down into two timelines-before and after-the first where fast friends April, and her roommate Hannah, along with Will, Hugh, Ryan, and Emily, learn the ins and outs of life in Oxford. April is the quintessential IT GIRL. Beautiful and magnetic, but also spoiled and manipulative-the kind of person that everyone orbits around. So, it’s quite shocking when by the end of the second term, she is found dead.In the AFTER chapters, it’s a decade later, and although Hannah’s eyewitness testimony put former Oxford porter, John Neville behind bars, she has never completely recovered from her friend’s untimely death. When Neville, dies in prison, you would think that the nightmare would finally be over, but, a reporter, Geraint Williams, presents her with new evidence that Neville may have been innocent. If that’s true-Hannah is responsible for putting an innocent man behind bars. One who died there.Troubled by that thought, she reconnects with her friends from the past, to do some sleuthing of her own. Could her own husband, Will, know more than he is letting on? At first, I felt like this was just another tale of dark academia, similar to many others I have read over the last year or so. The breadcrumbs were being dropped, and I was afraid that I was being led down a predictable path. SURELY, the guilty party cannot be that obvious?? DON’T WORRY! Ruth Ware has something up her sleeve-and when she pulled it out-I was happily surprised! It all came together perfectly and it was plausible! Very clever, Ms. Ware! You got me!! Although another book which was a bit too long for my taste, coming in at 432 pages, I was never bored-and enjoyed this more contemporary offering from this author.And, it’s AVAILABLE NOW!!A buddy read with DeAnn and Ceecee-be sure to check out their amazing reviews! Thank You to Gallery/Scout Press for my gifted copy, provided through Edelweiss. It was my pleasure to offer a candid review!
5058493978	** spoiler alert ** 4.5 stars— “The It Girl” was my 4th Ruth Ware book and by far my favorite. I have always enjoyed suspense novels set in a college environment, and this one was particularly well done. The book is told from the perspective of Hannah whose roommate is murdered by strangulation. The testimony provided by Hannah results in the conviction of an individual who others begin to question. Hannah decides to reinvestigate the murder herself which leads to her suspecting everyone in her friendship circle including her husband. Ware writes brilliantly in detailing the events leading up to the murder while also relating the events 10 years later when Hannah reopens her own investigation. As you might have guessed, I really loved the book and was invested in its characters from the start. However, I have to admit,even through my Ruth Ware loving glasses, there were some pretty big plot holes and ridiculous actions by characters that could not be overlooked. I only marked it down by .5 stars even though Ware might have written the most ridiculous few pages in book history when she has Hannah attending the murderer’s, attempted murderer’s x2 funeral of the people closest to Hannah whose entire friendship with Hannah was based on a lie. I mean--really?? If you just wad up these last few pages of the book and throw them in the garbage then the book is much better. All in all I loved it and highly recommend this book if you are a “Secret History “ by Donna Tartt fan
4819042787	** spoiler alert ** It is important to note that the majority of the themes explored in this book deal with sensitive subject matters. My review, therefore, touches on these topics as well. Many people might find the subject matters of the book as well as those detailed in my review overwhelming. I would suggest you steer clear of both if this is the case. Please note that from this point forward I will be writing about matters which contain reflections on fertility, threats of violence, sexual abuse, stalking, psychological distress, abuse performed by a figurehead, substance abuse, & others. Hannah Jones is the epitome of a caricature; unlike other girls, something different than she, & certainly not as luxurious as them, void of her own. Despite her self-imposed stark contrasts to every other female entity in her life, Hannah finds herself pursuing post-secondary studies at Pelham College at Oxford University; waltzing the hallways alongside other lucky students, some of whom studied for the merit of their presence on the premises & others who coat-tailed their way into classrooms where their parent’s wealth speaks to their prowess. While Hannah presents as a particularly studious & enthusiastic member of the student body, the premise of this story follows her through a third-party perspective as Ware recounts events both ‘before’ & ‘after’ the murder of April Clarke-Cliveden. Leaving Hannah to regain the role she merited, the one of insouciant Lumbricina on the cold cement. I have read this story before & you most certainly have too. There is nothing unique, original, or inspiring about this book save for the fact that everything that happens is a complete & utter waste of everyone’s time. If you are interested in pursuing the feelings evoked in this story I should direct your attention to books such as “Big Summer” (2021) by Jennifer Weiner, “Gossip Girl” (2002) by Cecily von Ziegesar, & “The It Girl” (2005) by Cecily von Ziegesar. However, there are certainly hundreds of other books for which this single one emulates. Having highlighted that this was an unoriginal story, I wondered why I should pursue reading an entire book without purpose for, indeed, why was Hannah doing any of what she undertook? This is a question I loath to ask myself because the purpose of reading such pieces of literature is for enjoyment. I am not seeking out thrillers, mysteries or crime novels of fictionalized accounts to tally the entirety of the holes that litter the plot. I find that most unenjoyable because it means that at some point, someone wasn’t doing their job. I want to enjoy the premise that is being presented & I want to forget that there is a disparity between myself & the angst transpiring within the pages. None of which was achieved in this story because, again, nothing had a purpose. If we regard the main premise of this book one is left pondering the absence of the looming policing body which was said to have done an efficient job of investigating the case, this being the strangulation of April Clarke-Cliveden in her dormitory at Pelham College on the night of the final showing of the school play of “Medea”. Having returned to her room under the guise of changing her clothes, April’s roommate, Hannah, finds her lying motionless on the floor of their suits. For some reason, Hannah screams bloody murder yet, never checks to see if April still has a pulse nor does she take her cellphone & call the authorities. Why this person, in the ripe year of 2012, would have simply stood by while this person she claimed to be ‘best friends’ with was supposedly laying dead in front of her, remains a mystery to me. An employee of the University, John Neville, is convicted of April’s murder & remains in prison until his death, 10 years later. Throughout the story, we are told that Hannah’s testimony was the nail in the coffin; the single piece of evidence that was more powerful than any others & which resulted in his conviction & sentencing. However wonderful it might be to believe, no single testimony in 2012 carries so much weight as to simply incarcerate someone for a violent crime. This introduces the character of the journalist, turned podcast host, Geraint, who believes that John is innocent. Geraint believes John’s claims of innocence because they are from the same town; feeling a duty to do good upon those who originate from the same geographical location as he, however obvious the signs that John is a predatory offender who should have been incarcerated regardless of the final act of violence that purports the ultimate consequences of actions such as that John commits. There is never a moment when Geraint’s concerns are rational or warranted. He asks himself three (3) questions that he believes have not been answered & therefore lead him to believe that John might not be the killer:- Why would a ‘guilty’ man repeatedly pursue appeals to his conviction? - Why was John’s DNA not found on April’s body?- Why did no one hear the struggle? Though these are technically important questions to ask, they are being pondered by a person who has no knowledge of the details of the case. Geraint has no leg to stand on when asking these questions because technically all the answers exist & are simply hidden from him. There is no reason why he would be given such specific details regarding the murder & for him to contact everyone who was affected by the murder in hopes of casually haranguing detectives for documentation that they most certainly probably have filled away, makes little sense. What renders his participation in this story all the more troubling is that none of the questions posed gain any resolve by the end of the novel. A person convicted of a crime might either sit out their sentencing & wait for their parole or they will appeal the decision. These are not things that are done because a person is ‘guilty’ or ‘innocent’ these are things that are done because a person has chosen to approach the situation in that way & I would be remiss to ignore the elephant in the room that states that certainly, someone with the liberties & resources at their disposal which would safely allow them to pursue appeals, might decide to endeavour to utilize the resources to their advantage. It is ignorant to think that only an ‘innocent’ person would seek to appeal the decision concluded in a court of law. This is proven time & time again by the hundreds, if not thousands, of people who have gone through the justice system. It seems odd that DNA evidence was not found at the crime scene given that it is explicitly told to the reader that the investigators swabbed everyone who was connected to April, in any way. Knowing that Hugh planned to murder April during this moment—having planned for Hannah to find her motionless on the floor in an attempt to prank her into thinking she was dead—it is bizarre that there was no evidence that Hugh was the killer. For the same reasons that some characters believed that John could not have killed April, those same reasons are never touched on when it comes to accusing Hugh of being the killer. April was ambushed by Hugh after engaging him in the prank on Hannah. She would have certainly scratched him or knocked about the room, her very aggressive makeup & costume would have found their way to various parts of his body & clothes. Are we simply to ignore that? When asking oneself why no one else, in the bare bones of the hallways & dormitories, was able to hear the, now apparent, struggle that was undertaken to murder April, one is left with many plausibilities. Knowing that the building was constructed with stone would lead one to understand that the noise that was being muffled would not have travelled with ease throughout the building. Given where the crime took place—an area that did not have a lot to be broken, directly beside those present—it is not unfounded to believe that had one or two items fallen or toppled, no one would have thought much of that. This is, after all, a university, things can become rowdy & as is humanly probable, & accidents happen. These are, of course, simple explanations & rationals. There are many reasons why certain things would have played out differently during the murder than what people think might have happened. It is certainly within our habits to be curious, especially when it pertains to situations we are unfamiliar with. Though crimes do transpire, they appear almost outer-worldly when they do. However, what renders the events in this book difficult to work through is the fact that naive & often ignorant people, place themselves at the forefront of a criminal investigation under the guise of knowing better than those who are actively working in the field. This is not to say that law enforcement cannot make mistakes nor is it to say that law enforcement always approaches things with clear genuine intentions. However, in this case, there is really no reason to question the result of the trial. At the end of the day, the stalking, assault, & all-around severely inappropriate behaviour exhibited by John were enough to conclude that this person was capable of committing violence against another. The plausibility that is put forth by Ryan that John had gone into the room thinking he might find Hannah there is disturbing but is never touched on with any true severity. None of what happens to Hannah is reflected with the weight it should have had. This is a person who was victim to her own crimes, committed by an authority figure & whom no one believed. This leads to another point, no one in this entire book believed one another. The author has written pages & pages recounting the exact same details in repetition. We circle the same information multiple times. We did not need to read Hannah’s reasoning for working at the book shop more than once. We did not need to hear about Hannah’s experience with the press more than once & in the exact same way. We did not need to hear Hannah claim that her ‘evidence’ was what convicted John; all of this we knew from the jump yet it is all we are given throughout this entire book. What does any of this redundancy add to the story save for filling pages with useless words? By littering the story with repetitions it ignores the very real issues that were taking place. The very obvious one was that Hannah was being stalked, harassed, & assaulted by an authority figure, repeatedly. To work through an entire series of events where nothing is given leaves me feeling frustrated. Every single aspect of the case that Geraint brings into question is hearsay. He has no substantial reasons for questioning or interrogating. He allows November, April’s sister, to sit around & recount what she thinks she might have overheard—as a child—about her sister’s autopsy. What was the purpose of that? Everything that happens means nothing because there is nothing to go on. Watching Hannah scramble around town for days thinking that one person must have murdered April because they didn’t get along with her was absurd. Lest we forget how physically difficult it is to strangle someone? In all, there is no reason to read this book. Hannah jumps to conclusions, she scrambles to ignore her partner’s wishes & puts their unborn child in jeopardy so that she can chase after whomever she believes to be the murderer. I understand that Hannah might have held on to guilt regarding John’s situation because she was always being told that what was happening to her, with regards to the stalking & harassment, was nothing to be worried about & that she was simply overreacting. She might certainly have felt that she did wrong upon someone whom everyone chose to believe over herself.Ultimately, I cannot rationalize what would have truly driven Hannah to confront the person she believed to be the murderer, especially while pregnant. What did it change to confront Hugh? Nothing. Rationalizing that April couldn’t have gotten access to drugs is ridiculous. The author speaks of 2012 as though it were the 1930s & no one had any connections whatsoever, it is not difficult to have access to substances if you so choose to desire them. One may also wonder where the camera footage was when running around town accusing everyone of being a violent offender. Why are we meant to follow a wild goose chase pertaining to April's fertility when it was irrelevant? What did this aspect bring to the story except to highlight a practice that needs to be removed from stories—the plight of the promiscuous girl who has to confront responsibilities alone & for whom all consequences are to be carried, often paying for her freedom of choice with her life. Hannah had already told the reader that April was cheating on Will & near the end of the book, Hannah is suddenly certain that she was sleeping with Ryan—with what evidence, I cannot begin to know. Yet, all the while we have to hear about everyone's theories; was April pregnant or was she not? Who heard what & to whom did she tell what? None of this mattered. None of a rather great deal of the dialogue, actions, flashbacks, revelations, monologues, & events impacted the core of this story. However, the list is too long & I have little desire to extend this review in a dissertation fashion. At the end of the day, this book could have been cut in half & would have carried more weight. With some editing, reworking & alterations, the plot could have presented an interesting twist. For example, it would have been worthwhile not to vilify the actual victims of this story & rather, have it come to a close with the understanding that it is a sticky situation to be in; entangled with folks that choose to support predators blindly, rather than believe the violence of their actions. Thank you to NetGalley, Simon & Schuster Canada & Ruth Ware for the free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review!
4503409714	HAPPY PUBLICATION DAY!The It Girl is the “It” thriller of the summer!Ten years after Hannah Jones’ college roommate, socialite April Coutts-Cliveden is murdered in their dorm room at Oxford, the porter convicted of the crime, John Neville, dies in prison. Feeling guilty for providing the testimony that prompted the jury to convict him, Hannah vows to determine if he was truly guilty of April’s murder. Neville always proclaimed innocence, forcing Hannah to wonder if she signed his death sentence without merit.If John Neville didn’t kill April, then who is the real murderer?Told in alternating chapters from before and after the murder, Hannah must figure out who killed April before it is too late.I was engaged in this dark academic mystery from start to finish and did not guess the murderer! This plot is very clever and includes excellent character development and fantastic amateur sleuthing.My only issue was the book’s hefty length. It easily could have been edited down at least 50-75 pages, as there is a lot of unnecessary repetition. However, I was never bored, as Ware frequently shifts gears, constantly introducing new motives and suspects.4/5 starsExpected publication date 7/12/22Thank you to NetGalley, Edelweiss, and Gallery/Scout press for the ARC of The It Girl in exchange for an honest review.
4602452999	4+ stars!A gothic, mysterious, foreboding, dark academia thriller!I am always drawn to mysteries involving college campus settings. This one was done extremely well. The Oxford campus is like a character in itself. The old, eerie buildings harbouring the secrets of thousands of students from previous decades. The hidden doors and stairwells known only to a select few. The sprawling exquisitely manicured lawns prohibiting students passage. All of these elements were combined perfectly, keeping me engaged and invested from start to finish. My one critique is that the plot lost its intensity and sense of believability in the end. It didn’t ruin the book, but it definitely dropped it down a notch. My rating is based on 5+ stars for the first 70% and 3.5 stars for the last 30%. The main character takes the amateur sleuth role a little too far and the ending is dramatically unrealistic yet, I was hanging on every word. There is something about this authors writing that I so smoothly click with. However, the plot choices in the end didn’t match the amazing-ness of the rest of the book. Overall, a great read that I highly recommend! Already looking forward to this authors next release!Thank you to my lovely local library for the loan!
6135987268	A byłyby 4/4,5 gwiazdki gdyby nie to okrutnie przegadane 350 pierwszych stron.
4599681009	** spoiler alert ** This book is full of the most eye-rolling cliches and it’s overall aggressively stupid. I’m actually angry about how bad it is. To spoil the plot, Hugh murdered April because she knew he had paid someone else to take his entrance exams and she was blackmailing him into getting her ADHD medication. Here are some of my complaints. 1) The dynamic between the victim (April) and the protagonist (Hannah) is stupidly cliched. The victim is always this gorgeous, spoiled, bitchy girl and the protagonist is her overshadowed friend. I’m over it. 2) The setup for Hannah to start investigating it again all these years later is that she’s not convinced of the guilt of the man (Neville) who was convicted. However, Hannah of all people would have the least reason to doubt his guilt because the man had already assaulted her! He was actively creeping on her and she was terrified if him. Then at the end of the novel, she dismisses his actions as him just being “weird and awkward.” The man tackled her into the ground and rubbed his groin into her!3) April was murdered via strangulation. This is a method that requires a lot of strength and takes 4-5 minutes of constant pressure to fully work. How did Hugh know he’d have enough time to complete it? How long did it take Hannah to go downstairs to get help? Why didn’t she just use her phone to call emergency services? Hugh had no way of knowing how long she’d be gone or if she’d actually leave at all. 4) Hannah realizes how a murderer could have gotten away without being discovered and promises April’s sister she won’t tell anyone about it before she goes to the police. Then she immediately tells Hugh, which gives him a chance to I redirect her attention to her own husband. 5) Why would Hannah start to doubt her own husband based solely on Hugh’s word? Her husband (Will) has never shown signs of violence. Also, Will’s alibi was that he was out of town. As the victim’s boyfriend, the police are obviously going to look into that alibi pretty closely. There should have been a lot of concrete evidence to back that up. Why didn’t Hannah think of any of that? 6) Why did Will suddenly start acting in a threatening manner when he realized that his pregnant wife suspected him of murder and was afraid of him? There’s no reasonable explanation for his very sudden change in behavior if he’s innocent. 7) Why would Will just go out to the cliff where Hugh is trying to murder Hannah on his own without at least calling the police first? 8) How did Hugh get a handgun in the UK? 9) The author pulls another extremely eye-rolling cliche. There’s a confrontation between Will and Hugh and the gun goes off. The scenes then abruptly changed to Hannah at a funeral. It’s Hugh’s funeral of course, but the author wants us to be in suspense for a bit first. Why is she even at the funeral of the man who murdered her friend and tried to murder her (and her husband)? 10) The police apparently took what must have been a very poor-quality recording of a conversation as proof of not only how Hugh died, but also of what really happened to April. There wouldn’t have been any other actual evidence at this point. Apparently this recording was enough to overturn a previous conviction too! That’s not really how the legal system works. 11) The author wants us to believe that it would have been almost impossible for college kids to get drugs in the 2010s without a prescription. 12) The author wants us to believe that it’s actually really easy to cheat on the med school entrance exams in the UK and that the entity responsible for administering the test would never have thought of the possibility of an applicant paying someone else to take the exam for them and therefore would not require an ID at the time of the exam. Those were my main complaints. I regret wasting time a book that insults readers’ intelligence so much.
4312282848	Finally knocked this one off of the TBR. I generally like Ware's books but this one offered nothing new. The main character, Hannah, was at Oxford ten years previously when her roommate, April was murdered. Now, she's pregnant and married to Will, who was April's boyfriend at the time. The man who was convicted of April's murder has died in prison while still claiming his innocence. Hannah was the witness who saw this man leaving that night, could she have been wrong?There was nothing I liked about Hannah, besides her love for books. She is flighty, indecisive, doesn't stand up for herself, jumps to conclusions, is whiny and hysterical. And this doesn't improve even ten years down the road. I have no idea why she was this way, as we really didn't get any background on her despite the meanderingly slow pace of this novel. In fact, we never get any background on anyone really.This glacier-slow pace continues for about 75% of the novel when a few things finally happen. But again, Hannah gets hysterical and jumps to conclusions and puts herself and her baby in danger. As I mentioned, this storyline is been there, done that, and nothing really surprised me at all. You can call the culprit long before they are revealed, although the motive was a bit interesting, it didn't make up for the plodding pace and lack of originality. If you want dark academia with some surprising twists, go get In My Dreams I Hold a Knife instead.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.
5527232168	To nie będzie najukochańsza Ruth, ale wciągnęła mnie jak czarna dziura — CHCĘ WIĘCEJ!
6026581024	3.5* I actually really liked this story! The academic setting, the unsolved murder mystery, the before/after timelines, I even thought the ending was clever and well explained. But absolutely NO thriller needs to be 400+ pages. I feel like it took me a year to finish this and if I hadn’t had the audiobook to help speed things along I’m not sure I would have stuck with it.
4595664021	Can You Say Ruh Roh?The It Girl started out strong and petered out at the end.I had such high hopes for this one! I adore Ruth Ware and admittedly love character driven novels. In the beginning I was all in and that excitement carried on until about 70-75% and then I lost it. So what happened you ask? Well let’s get to it!The day Hannah enters Oxford she meets her new roommate April Clarke-Clivedon. Affluent, bright and completely wild, April changes Hannah’s life forever. The two become besties, even though they are from different worlds. Enter Will, April’s boyfriend, who Hannah can’t help but crush on. Surrounding them are a group of friends, Ryan, Emily and Hugh. Then something goes awry. Tragedy strikes April and everyone’s life is shattered.Ten years later, Hannah’s life is very different. The day she receives news of past events, everything stops and Hannah realizes that she must go back in order to move forward.So when the big reveal finally happened, well, it wasn’t so big. Then it carried on way too long. To be perfectly honest, it was a snoozefest. The how and why frankly, didn’t matter at all. Everything leading up to that point had me. I was wholly intrigued by the life and times of Hannah, Will and April and then not so much. Such is life.I am only one reader however, thus I encourage you all to read other reviews as this one seemed to be a hit with everyone else.This was a buddy read with Kaceey.Thank you to Jessica Roth at Gallery Books for the arc via NetGalleyReview published to blog https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend... and to Goodreads and Twitter.
4765391042	The It Girl is April Clarke-Cliveden. She’s got looks, brains and money and is a glittering, golden young woman. There’s a bit of resentment that family money MAYBE helps her get into prestigious Pelham College, Oxford but she’s definitely no airhead. Most people find her a magnetic personality though she is a practical joker, so you’d better watch out! Fast forward to the present day to April’s former roommate Hannah Jones, now Hannah de Chastaigne. Hannah’s time at Pelham defines her life, she feels guilt, it haunts her and she can’t move on. Why? Towards the end of her first year at Oxford Hannah finds April dead, the case becomes a national obsession with college porter John Neville being convicted. Now the ‘Pelham Strangler’ is dead, resurrecting the past and reopening barely healed wounds. This leads to the inevitable questions about whether Neville is guilty. There’s much to praise in this latest novel by Ruth Ware. First of all, it really captures the Oxford vibe as Hannah, from a state school background, moves amongst the ‘exotic, clever, glamorous creatures’ from a much different background and world to her own. Many of these ‘creatures’ attended equally prestigious private schools prior to Oxford and so those hallowed walls perhaps inspire their awe slightly less than they do for Hannah. The group that forms ‘gel’ over a game of strip poker which makes you smile at their boldness so soon into their acquaintance! The newly formed dynamics come across strongly and the characterisation is really good. You warm to some, are puzzled by others but April’s is the strongest presence even after death she overhangs all. John Neville gives me the heebies, you get odd vibes from him right from the start. He’s patronising, creepy and weird but is he a killer? That’s the burning question. Hannah is forced to address her certainly and even in death his presence lingers like a poisonous miasma. As the novel progresses, the atmosphere between characters becomes stranger, even questionable and there’s anger too. It builds well, there’s plenty of tension and you cast your eye over several characters but the dramatic climax of the book blindsides me. I so don’t see that one coming but equally it is very plausible. It is exciting, very tense and you read with bated breath. For me this is the best novel by RW I’ve read. It’s a good slow burner which absolutely keeps my focus throughout and it’s very hard to put down and I do so extremely reluctantly. My only criticism is that it’s a tad too long and on occasions it does feel as if the author is squeezing every last drop out but nonetheless it is still very enjoyable. It’s very atmospheric especially in Oxford which feels like a character in its own right, with all the characters lucky enough to attend this elite institution dancing right off the pages especially the It Girl. It has a little bit of everything but it’s mostly just a really good mystery with a dollop or two of much appreciated humour. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Simon and Schuster for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.
4501662217	NOW AVAILABLE!!in the vast churning sea of academic thrillers centered around the murder of a beautiful and magnetic young woman, what shocking twists does an author need to devise in order to stand out?in this case, the answer is "none," really.in the rankings of Ruth Ware Books I Have Read, The It Girl is sandwiched alongside One by One in the "perfectly fine" territory between the great: The Turn of the Key, and the terrible: In a Dark, Dark Wood.it's a very familiar setup: a close-knit group of college students satellite around a beautiful, wealthy, selfish roman candle of a young woman, and after she gets murdered, everyone's secrets are revealed. here, many of those secrets don't come out until a decade after april's murder, when her former bestie/roommate/narrator hannah is married to april's college-sweetheart will, when she is pregnant with his child, when john neville—the college porter hannah's testimony implicated in april's murder—dies in jail, when a reporter approaches hannah with information exonerating neville, when she becomes wracked with guilt over possibly ruining an innocent man's life, wracked with anger over april's unavenged death, and wracked with terror that a killer might still be on the loose. it's a whole lot of wracking.the story alternates between adult hannah—pregnant, living in scotland, and working in a bookshop, and her student days at oxford, when she met the larger-than-life april and was engulfed into her clustering clique: april, will, emily, hugh, and ryan. april is...the way all aprils are in books like this: There was something otherworldly about her—some indefinable quality Hannah could not put her finger on. She felt almost as if she had seen her somewhere before...or watched her in a film. She had that kind of beauty that hurt your eyes if you looked at her for too long, but made it hard to tear your gaze away. It was, Hannah realized, as if a different kind of light were shining on her than on the rest of the room.but after her death, she became a symbol—a promising life cut short, reduced to tragedy in the media:How dare they—the journalists, the public, the vultures who have picked over this case for years like they care, like they have a right to the truth just as much as Hannah does. They've stripped April of her identity, of her uniqueness, of everything that made her real and compelling and fascinating—they've reduced her to a cardboard cutout of a girl and a series of Instagram pictures. The perfect victim, in fact.the ten-year-gap permits hannah enough emotional distance to revisit her past with different eyes, to consider that the creepy porter was maybe just creepy, and not necessarily a killer, and to perceive the cracks in april's shine; see the way her vanity, her carelessness with other people's feelings and her mischievous pranks may have driven someone to kill her—someone she considered a friend. it does what thrillers do—a mad scramble of suspicion and doubt, red herrings, remembered details given new emphasis, etc etc, and it's a compelling, if conventional, page-turner. i figured it out before the grand reveal, but i enjoyed the ride nonetheless. honestly, the best parts for me were hannah's working-in-the-bookstore bits, which were very relatable, both the comfort in feeling "safest surrounded by books," and the joyful challenge of readers' advisory work:...an elderly lady, who comes in every Tuesday and buys a book, and then comes back the following Tuesday and tells Hannah how many marks out of ten she would award it. She has never, ever given ten. Hamnet got 8.75. This week Razorblade Tears got 9.2. The first Bridgerton novel got 7.7. Lord of the Flies got a surprising 4.1. Hannah finds it impossible to predict what will score high—some of her most confident recommendations bomb, but she lives in hope of finding something that will hit the magic jackpot. i've read far too many campus thrillers in my life, and i will read many more before i die (knock wood), so this was more of a comfort-food read for me than a mind-blowing experience, but it's a fun summertime thriller to escape from the real world, and i'm taking my comforts where i can these days. come to my blog!
4821888242	Ding, ding, ding. We have a winner! This is IT--my favorite book from Ruth Ware. Who killed April? Although there has been a man in prison for ten years, Hannah who was April's roommate and best friend is starting to doubt. It seemed so logical, but as Hannah examines the evidence she begins to suspect the killer may be one of the people she considered her friends at Oxford. Follow Hannah's search and relive her time at Pelham College with April, Emily, Hugh, Ryan, and Will. They were inseparable until death took one of them away. What really happened in that New Quad room that night? The answer really surprised me and I hope other readers will also enjoy this twisty, turny tale. The perfect read for your vacay or trip to the beach.A big thank you to Gallery/Scout Press and Edelweiss+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.
4360554520	5 Stars, for this impressive release!! You know what it feels like when you're eagerly anticipating something, but it feels like the days seem to be dragging by in slow-mo'? That's how I felt last year when I discovered Ware wouldn't publish her next new novel until 2022! Luckily there were plenty of great releases in the meantime to tide me over, but when I was FINALLY able to get my hands on The It Girl (which I believe should have been named The Mean Girl) I greedily started devouring the long-awaited read! Fortunately I can say this one was definitely worth the wait!! Hannah, Emily, Ryan, Hugh, and Will are all first-year students at Oxford’s Pelham College. Only the best of the best, brightest students are admitted, and Hannah is overwhelmed by the prestige of this, one of the U.K.’s finest institutions. When she meets her roommate, the luxurious April Clarke-Cliveden she instantly has a best friend. The world is her oyster and this group of privileged youth feel invincible. That is, until the end of the school year when Hannah finds April murdered in her room! A porter named John Neville is witnessed leaving April’s room shortly before her body is discovered, and is quickly arrested, followed by a trail and conviction in which Hannah serves as a primary witness in. Fast forward ten years later and Hannah is living in Edinburgh working as a bookseller and married to Will, April’s ex-boyfriend, and pregnant with their first child. She’s living a happy life until a news bulletin announces John Neville has just died in prison of cancer. He maintained his innocence until his dying breath and now a podcaster has reached out to Hannah to discuss the circumstances surrounding her testimony presented, which was potentially pivotal in convicting an innocent man. Hannah has never had doubts about what happened until now, could Neville have been an innocent man? Is there something in Hannah’s memory she’s suppressed? If so, who murdered her best friend?! Is it someone Hannah is close to? This was such a well-written, suspenseful and atmospheric novel – I absolutely loved it! Ware has absolutely redeemed herself from her previous novel, which I admittingly didn’t love, and proven she’s undoubtedly one of the best in the business! The novel is written in dual timelines – before the murder, and 10 years after, which added to the overall quality of the story. Everything from the vividly beautiful scenery to the complex relationships among the group of friends, to the multi-layered mystery element, which had me going back and forth throughout, just had me hooked! I wasn’t sure if there would be aspects of unreliable narrators, or if there was a clue I somehow missed that clearly pointed to the murderer, I just couldn’t figure it out! This was masterful storytelling at its’ best! I highly recommend this fast-paced ’22 release by Ware; I do believe it’ll be one of the best in what’s developing as a phenomenal year in reading!
4911754477	What slowed my reading: the romance went like it's a romance read … (20 percent into the book) and it turns out it’s not even romance in a thriller/murder mystery book. It was so bad. Not going to spoil things here but it’s really bad.DNFed. It’s so damn boring. Wasted a whole evening and my early morning hours of the weekend. So not worth it.
4482068045	4.5 Stars!! A very enjoyable and fast read! I picked this up and had a difficult time putting it down. The story was gripping and the characters well developed. I thought I had things all figured out but it turned out I was way off. I've enjoyed other books by Ruth Ware, but this is definitely one of my favorites. I'm certainly looking forward to reading more.
4524709153	☆ Release Date: July 12, 2022 ☆Ruth Ware's latest novel is an engrossing dark academia mystery that centers around the murder of Oxford "it" girl April Coutts-Cliveden. Hannah Jones became BFFs with the wealthy, clever, and sometimes cruel April, after they're paired as roommates freshman year. But, before the school year ends, April is dead, and a creepy porter will be convicted of the crime based on Hannah's eyewitness testimony.Fast forward a decade, and Hannah is still haunted by April's death, in part because the porter has died in prison, maintaining his innocence until the end. Then a journalist contacts her, claiming that new evidence suggests the police got the wrong guy. Hannah's life is once again in turmoil. If it wasn't the porter, then who killed April?I enjoyed this slow burn whodunit that showcases Ruth Ware's talent for weaving a twisty story. Though unique from her other books, I would say THE IT GIRL's atmosphere is closest to THE LYING GAME (less drama though). Not exactly Gothic or thriller, but suspenseful and keeps you guessing. Lots of red herrings and possible suspects had me changing my mind often, and I was shocked when the truth was revealed! I'll be buying a copy for my keeper shelf! Thank you to the publisher and Edelweiss for providing a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ☆
4815903472	3.5 stars rounded up.Set in the past (10 years ago) and in the present day this book is about the wide ranging effects of one single tragic death!10 years ago, Hannah Jones, a nobody from Dodsworth is thrilled to be accepted into the prestigious Pelham College, Oxford. She is sharing her lodgings with the irrepressible and very wealthy April Clarke-Clivedon (strangely the US version gives her name as April Coutts-Cliveden). They each have a bedroom and share a sitting room which becomes party central to a group of six friends - Hannah, April, April’s boyfriend Will, the rather outspoken Ryan, shy Hugh and blunt and businesslike Emily.April is like a golden sunbeam, everyone is mesmerised by her, hence the moniker - the It Girl. She can be quite manipulative and takes some pranks a bit far but all is soon forgiven as her sunny personality reasserts itself. The characterisations were really good. Each of the friends had a distinct personality and the group dynamic worked very well.From the start Hannah is a bit creeped out by the porter John Neville who seems to lurk in inappropriate places. So when, after the end of the academic year and the final performance of the play in which April stars, she doesn’t return from getting changed out of her costume Hannah and Hugh go to see what’s up. They see John Neville coming out of the stairwell, heaven knows why he was there at that time of night. And when they get to April and Hannah’s rooms, they find the door slightly ajar and April lying dead on the floor. It is Hannah’s testimony about Neville that sees him convicted of April’s murder despite the lack of any forensic evidence.Ten years on, Hannah is still haunted by the experience. She and Will are married and Hannah is pregnant. Then it transpires that John Neville has died in prison and the whole circus starts up again. A journalist who is friendly with Hugh finally gets to speak to a reluctant Hannah, he thinks that Neville may have been innocent. If that is the case then the real murderer is still at large and Hannah just can’t let it go.This was a book in two halves for me. I found the first half very boring and nearly chucked it in. But by the second half, when Hannah’s obsession with finding out the truth really took hold it suddenly got much more interesting. I still found Hannah quite annoying but it gradually became clear that she really was onto something. The tension quickly ramped right up as she no longer knew who to trust. The final reveal was a jaw dropper and very suspenseful. Many thanks to Netgalley and Simon & Schuster (Australia) for the much appreciated arc which I reviewed voluntarily and honestly.
4312495487	I was excited when I saw that Ruth Ware had written a new book. There was a lot of publicity for The It Girl and everything I read about it made me want to read it even more. For me, The It Girl lived up to my expectations. It was a riveting and suspenseful psychological thriller as well as a murder mystery. Once again, Ruth Ware was able to invent engaging characters and place them in setting that could be reminiscent for most. The chapters alternated between “before” and “after”. It was fast paced and hard to put down once I began reading it. When Hannah Jones met April Clarke-Clivedin for the first time at Oxford and realized that they were to be roommates, Hannah knew they were completely different from each other. Despite all their differences, though, Hannah and April became best friends. They had a tight group of friends that consisted of Will, Emily, Ryan and Hugh. At the end of their second year at Oxford, the most unthinkable thing happened. April had just given her last performance in the play she was cast in and Hannah and the others had arranged a surprise celebration for April and her fellow cast members. Near the end of the celebration, April returned to the suite she shared with Hannah to change her clothes and remove her stage makeup. Shortly after April’s departure, Hugh had been nice enough to walk Hannah back to the dorm. As Hugh and Hannah approached the dorm, Hannah spotted John Neville, one of the university’s porters, exiting the staircase that led to her and April’s suite. Why was John Neville there at that time of the night? When Hannah got up to her and April’s rooms, she discovered that April was lying on the floor of her bedroom and appeared as if she was dead. Hannah’s screams were piercing. Hugh ran up to see why Hannah was screaming. Hugh being a pre-med student bent over April’s body and felt for a pulse. He sent Hannah to go get help. Hannah was convinced that John Neville, the creepy porter, had done this to her best friend. He was put on trial for murder. John Neville was charged with the murder of April and he was placed in prison. Hannah was so shaken by April’s death that she never came back to complete her education. Ten years later, Hannah had married Will, they were expecting their first child and they lived and worked in Edinburgh. It had just been reported that John Neville had died. Hannah should have felt elated but she didn’t. A work colleague of Ryan’s had contacted Hannah and told her that he believed John Neville had been wrongly accused of killing April. Could Hannah had been wrong and made an innocent man go to prison for a crime he did not commit? Hannah began jostling her memory to remember the details of that fateful night. New memories began to surface. Long buried secrets that her close group of friends held close began to surface. Hannah was now tasked with trying to unravel the secrets her university friends had hidden for more than ten years. Could Hannah discover who really strangled April, make sure the killer was punished and finally put her nightmare to rest?The It Girl by Ruth Ware was a very clever and engaging psychological thriller. I thought I had the mystery figured out a few times only to be thrown another twist in the plot. The ending was unexpected but satisfying. I switched back and forth between my kindle and the audiobook. The audiobook was narrated by Imogen Church. I truly enjoyed The It Girl and recommend it very highly. Thank you to Gallery Books for allowing me to read The It Girl through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
5141881447	The premise of The It Girl is captivating. Ten years earlier while at university, Hannah's roommate and best friend, April, is killed in their college room. John Neville, a porter at the university, is convicted of the murder. Neville continually claims he is innocent and files multiple appeals. Neville dies while in prison and a journalist feels it is his mission to determine if Neville was innocent.Ruth Ware does an incredible job of casting doubt on all of the college friends and professor who were close to April. April's boyfriend, Will, is now married to Hannah and they are expecting a baby. One of their friends, Ryan, has had a stroke but he is a friend of the journalist. Hugh and Emily are also part of their group of friends.The plot is interesting and there are many twists and turns, however, it takes a really long time to get there. I think the book could have been trimmed quite a lot and still had the strong bones of a thriller.
4602538070	the setup…Hannah Jones arrives at Oxford University’s Pelham College to begin the education journey she’s worked hard to achieve. Her suite mate is April Clarke-Clivedon and they couldn’t be more opposite. April is outgoing, from a wealthy family and attracts people with little effort. Hannah’s more the introvert, from a working class family and a small town. April takes Hannah under her wing and introduces her to four of her friends from boarding school. Soon Hannah, April, Will, Ryan, Emily and Hugh are their own little pack but before the year ends, April is dead. It’s now ten years later and John Neville, the man convicted of April’s murder has died in prison having never ceased protesting his innocence and fighting to be released. Hannah, whose testimony helped put the man in prison, now believes she can finally breathe and put this chapter of her life behind her, focusing on her pregnancy and husband. But, a journalist contacts her with new information that casts doubt on Neville’s guilt, sending her into a new tailspin brought on by further revelations.the heart of the story…The story unfolds with alternating transitions between the present and ten years prior, all with Hannah as the narrator. The contrast is striking as her voice in the past reflects the hopes, dreams and fresh outlook of a new college student. Present day Hannah is consumed by anxiety and angst as she’s clearly never fully recovered from the trauma of April’s death. She’s full of second guessing and it doesn’t take much for the journalist to ignite this kindling. Her inner musings became wearisome over time but was balanced by the storytelling leading up to the murder. But what I really enjoyed was the exploration and depth of the development of all of the characters comprising their group. As those revelations began emerging, I felt as if I knew these people so well that I could adequately sift through the red herrings, toss out what I found groundless and retain what made sense to who I knew them to be. Poor Hannah becomes muddled by it all, suspecting all of them at some point, including husband Will!the narration…Imogen Church is one of my favorites and she did a great job in making me feel Hannah’s angst, almost too good of a performance. And, I always recognized every member of the group as she provided fine distinctions. The pacing was a little slow so I listened at a higher speed as an adjustment (it worked).the bottom line…This is a slow burn that you’ve got to stick with as there’s an excellent payoff. When it ramps up, it shifts from a character-driven psychological thriller to something more exciting and nail biting. It made me think about the details, including the more mundane that would later prove important as you not only have to assess whether Neville was guilty or not but who else might have been the real killer. Though it was a bit longer than necessary, I found myself anxious to resume my listening until I reached the end. This was a mind bender and I feel smug about having guessed right but also that the underlying motive was an absolute surprise. Ware never lets me down and I’ll be waiting patiently for whatever she delivers next. Posted on Blue Mood Café(Thanks to Simon & Schuster Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)
4609413784	Read if you like:⬗ Locked Room mysteries ⬗ Slow burn ⬗ Dual timelines ⬗ In My Dreams I Hold a Knife Summary: When Hannah Jones meets her roommate April Coutts-Cliveden, she is immediately taken with her. As the “It Girl” of Oxford, she is both beloved and loathed in equal parts. As the two form a close knit group of friends, including Will, Hugh, Ryan, and Emily, they share the trials and tribulations often experienced during your first term at uni. By the end of the second, April is found dead. Ten years later and Hannah is now married to Will and pregnant with their first child. When she is contacted by a reporter looking into the case, following the death of April’s “killer” in prison, Hannah begins to suspect they might have gotten things very wrong. Thoughts: I discovered Ruth Ware towards the beginning of last year, and have really enjoyed each of the books I have read of hers. As soon as I saw the book trailer for The It Girl, I knew I had to get my hands on it. Locked room mystery, check. Dark academia, check. Dual timelines, check. All of my favorite components can be found in the “It” thriller of the summer. The first thing I noticed when I started reading, is the major In My Dreams I Hold a Knife v ibes it has. So much so, I was a bit worried that it was going to end up being the same book. While it is very similar, it was still unique and I was able to appreciate it’s differences. While none of the characters in IMDIHAK seemed likable, Hannah, Will, Ryan, and even April felt more like the types of people I went to university with. That aspect, along with Ruth’s prose, made me feel like I myself was right back reliving my college days (well, minus the dead body of course).My favorite aspect of Ware’s books is the way they take up residence in your brain long after you are done reading them. To this day, One by One still haunts me and I find myself thinking about some of it’s most intense moments. The descriptive language she uses and the way she sets the scene for what is to come, has a way of imprinting in your memory and leaves you thinking about the characters for a long time after. This book is no exception. My only criticism is, coming in at over 400 pages, I wish it were a tad bit shorter. It has a slow burn feel to it which I like, but can feel even slower when it is a longer novel. Otherwise, I really enjoyed this one and will be recommending it far and wide. Thank you to Gallery/Scout Books for the gorgeous physical ARC of this book in exchange for my honest review. My only complaint is that the book was missing the last 9 pages so it was a bit of a cliff hanger for me.
4575448826	I really enjoyed my first Ruth Ware book!I love dark academia books since reading In My Dreams I Hold a Knife by Ashley Winstead.This started fairly typically- a murder at school, and the friends and classmates are moving on with their lives until something gets in the way- usually journalists trying to get to the bottom of it!I loved the majority of this book- the plot and characters but felt like a more ruthless editing was needed. Characters' constant thoughts really slowed the pace down at times, and particularly when I wanted to feel the suspense.I will definitely read Ruth's next offering after this!
4378610470	3.5 starsRuth Ware is an author that has become an auto read for me, but I have a love / hate relationship with her books: I loved The Woman in Cabin 10 and The Death of Mrs. Westaway; I liked The Turn of the Key; I didn't love In a Dark, Dark Wood and One by One, but could understand if readers do; and I hated The Lying Game. I would say that Ruth Ware's THE IT GIRL is appropriately stuck right in the middle at 3.5 stars. If I had to rank, I'd put it in the "didn't love" category before In a Dark, Dark Wood. Anyways, onto the story!This book has a whole academia vibe where the main character, Hannah relives her past trauma after finding out that her roommate's murderer has just died in prison. However, Hannah's life drastically takes a turn when a journalist provides her new evidence stating that her roommate's killer may have actually been innocent. Hannah is happily married to her college sweetheart and has a kid on the way, and she doesn't need this to affect her love bubble. However, sometimes the past has a way of rising back to the top. I definitely got vibes from Ashley Winstead's IN MY DREAMS I HOLD A KNIFE, so if you like that book, you should give THE IT GIRL a try!THE IT GIRL did not feel like a Ruth Ware novel to me as it was very slow and not really suspense-driven. I did enjoy the mystery and our protagonist, and I did not expect how the story was going to end at all. For real, I think this was my first Ruth Ware novel that I was stumped. It was just a tad too long for me, especially with a very fast wrap up, even though I read it in 24 hours, so maybe I'm just a complainer. However, THE IT GIRL does not follow the typical rhetoric that bugged me with One By One, so I think Ruth Ware fans will enjoy that this story is drastically different than what you may expect. I definitely think that if you're a fan of the author, you should give THE IT GIRL a chance. I'm curious to see where readers will align with ratings as this book was good, but a bit disappointing after a two year hiatus.
4707539678	I have been looking forward to this novel since I first knew about it and it didn’t let me down. Ruth Ware does write exciting novels that draw you in and hook you. This is another thriller that twists and turns, great characters and well written.April Coutts-Cliveden and Hannah Jones met at Oxford and were very soon best friends. Together they formed a tight friendship with Will, Hugh, Ryan and Emily and were inseparable. But by the end of the second term, April was dead.The novel is written from the two timelines of before and after April’s death.Ten years after April’s death, Hannah is pregnant and together with Will are expecting their first child. John Neville who worked as a porter at the university was convicted of killing April but has recently died in prison. Hannah now feels she can let go of the bad memories but when a journalist contacts her to discuss new evidence that Neville may have been innocent it all starts again. Hannah makes contact with her old group of friends and discusses April’s tragic death which sparks fears that one of them may have something to hide, even murder.I did enjoy the novel but didn’t feel it quite lived up to some of the previous novels by this author. Still very entertaining but I didn’t feel the grip held by her other books. Dragged a little at times but perhaps I am being too picky.I would like to thank both Netgalley and Simon and Schuster for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
5271426066	3.75 stars While at Oxford, Hannah’s roommate April was the life of the party, bright, “it girl”. So it came as a shock at the end of their first year April was murdered and the porter in their dorm was sent away for the crime. Now, the convicted man is dead and Hannah’s world us rocked when a reporter reaches out with new evidence that he didn’t commit the crime. Hannah revisits her past year, meeting April and the events that lead to her death and makes a shocking discovery.I liked this book way more than I thought I would. Normally with Ruth Ware, the premise is fantastic while the execution lacks. And while this one went on a bit longer than it should, I felt everything came together very well. I didn’t guess right away what the ending was, and Ware did a good job planting some red herrings to distract the reader along the way. Where Ware exceeded with this book was the journey to the end of the book and the reveal. The characters were all well formed and interesting (if not a bit thick at times). A very enjoyable mystery and one of this author’s better books.
4948513048	This was not a bad book, but I feel like I've read this story a thousand times before this. Social Creature, The Girls Are All So Nice Here, The Sorority Murder are a few I could mention. They're all different if you count the details, but all very similar if you look at the concept, setting, characters and overall plot in general.The thing that differentiate this book, though, is unfortunately not positive and it's that this book is boring af. The mystery and culprit reveal left me underwhelmed instead of thrilled; everything was so damn predictable I could have solved it in ten pages if I listened to my guts. Ruth Ware's writing is so dull and unremarkable it definitely contributed in making this a forgettable story for me.
4510762101	Try as I might, I can’t even come up with an extra half-star for a book that started great but suffered from too much inner chatting and waffling from our narrator. I usually enjoy dual timeline mystery novels — the “before” and “after” seemed like a clever start but in the end it felt over-plotted and underwhelming.I think my problem was so many underdeveloped characters. Too many micro details and vague generalities. The more I think about it, the less I liked it. I’m a Ruth Ware fan and will continue to read her books, but this just wasn’t one of my faves.(Reviewed 9/1/22)
4343464512	I have a strange relationship with the author, I’ve absolutely loved some of her books, thought a couple were just alright and then I skipped a couple because things have been so hit or miss for me. So going into this one I had no idea what I would think, and having finished it I would say it was middle of the road for me. I do like the authors writing style and appreciate her ability to slowly unravel and tell a story but slow isn’t always a winner for me. For me to really enjoy a slow burn I need it to payoff in a big way in the end and I wasn’t blown away here. I did enjoy the academic setting and I always like an old case being revisited though, so there were definitely aspects I liked. I think the beginning was stronger for me than the middle to end, seriously why was this so long?? But overall I would say this was fine, just not enough true tension and suspense for me to be sold. I did listen to most of this and I adore Imogen Church and she gave another great performance so if you’re a listener go that route.
4398815533	Full disclaimer, Ruth Ware is one of my favourite authors and I was desperate to read The It Girl. When my NetGalley request was approved by Simon and Schuster Australia, there was a happy dance 🕺 Despite my shelf being full of books released before August 3rd, I just had to read it. She has once again written a truly addictive and twisty thriller and ai loved it so much.Hannah meets April on her first day at Oxford University. The 2 girls couldn’t be more different but they hit it off immediately. Soon Hannah is caught up in April’s world. April comes from money, she has everything she could possibly want and more. When April is murdered in their dorm room, It is Hannah’s testimony that puts away one for the porters., John Neville. 10 years later and John dies behind bars. Hannah should feel relieved but it is anything but relief. A podcaster contacts her asking her to talk to him, he is working on a podcast that discusses the fact that John claimed his innocence right until his death.This sends Hannah off on a journey, now starting to doubt what she saw. But if not John, who was it? Does she really want to find out? A story of friendships, love and secrets. All friends have the, but not like this. As always, Ruth has a great cast of characters and plenty of red herrings that will make you wonder who you can trust.Highly recommend The It Girl. published in Australia on August 3rd. Thank you so much Simon and Schuster 😊
4630288279	A long-winded knock off of "In My Dreams I Hold a Knife." 400+ pages of boredom. Who did it? I don't care at all.See my full thoughts in my reading vlog here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JsXHz...
4405875907	(2.5 stars). This book was not it for me. Maybe I went into this book with too high of expectations considering I have really enjoyed Ware’s previous novels, but The It Girl did not hold my attention. I think part of the problem with this book is it is very long and drawn out. When I’m reading a suspense story, I like and expect things to happen quickly with twists and turns at almost every chapter. This book went on and on and on… It was to the point that I didn’t care who or what happened to the “It Girl”. Our main character Hannah, who is pregnant, decides to try and solve the murder of her “it girl” friend ten years after the fact. Now, I know people handle grief and trauma in all different ways, but why try to solve this when we are six months pregnant? Heck, if you waited ten years, you mine as well have waited a few more months. Also, April (the It Girl), was so unlikeable and she mistreated all her friends, it just left me wondering why they were all still grieving ten years later? I also figured out who the murderer was pretty early on, so there was no big shocker for me in this book either. This wasn’t my favorite Ruth Ware book, but I can see going by other reviews that many others seemed to enjoy this book more than I did.
4895366676	Boring, repetitive, and way too long at 432 pages. I didn’t think it was every gonna end. I sped up my audio version to 2.5 just to finish this miserable tale. The main character, Hannah, is the whiniest, most egotistical snowflake anybody could imagine. Most of the novel is Hannah trying to justify her extreme selfishness and the harm she eagerly does to her unborn baby with endless, "She has to do it. But how can she? She can't! But she has to! So she will." It goes on like this for pages and pages. And every single person she encounters is the murderer! The final straw was when she accused her own husband of being the murderer. Seriously? By the time I finished this one, I didn’t care who did it or why.
4804471586	April Coutts-Cliveden was the first person Hannah Jones met at Oxford. Vivacious, bright, occasionally vicious, and the ultimate It girl, she quickly pulled Hannah into her dazzling orbit, Together, they developed a group of devoted and inseparable friends - Will. Hugh, Ryan and Emily - during their first term. By the end of the second, April was dead. Now, a decade later, Hannah and Will are expecting their first child, and the man convicted of killing April, has died in prison. This story has a dual timeline that's told in alternating chapters between the past, before the murder, and the present day. Hannah is a first year student at Oxford University. She shares a room with April. It did take me a little while to get into the book, but once I was in, I was hooked. I liked how the story slowly unfolded. John Neville had died in prison protesting that he was innocent of April's murder. With so many twists and red herrings, it's hard to guess who;#'s responsible for April's murder.I would like to thank #NetGalley #SimonandSchuster and the author #RuthWare for my ARC of #TheItGirl in exchange for an honest review.
5054943776	I was growing weary of Ruth Ware. I had considered most of her stories formulaic, but when this one was generously donated to our Little Free Library Shed, I thought I would read it. I thought it had a good pace to it, and it certainly kept one wondering for a bit. As it turns out a young journalist questions whether a person who dies in prison was the real culprit for a murder that occurred on campus ten years earlier. That leads the individual who was the one that basically accused that person to begin to question if she had seen it wrong. Will you figure it out? As a voracious mystery reader, I hate to say it, but I did long before it ended. Does that mean I am back to being weary of Ruth Ware? Tell me what you think.
4903254224	A woman obsessively pursues the murder of her college roommate and best-friend 10 years later. Was it one of her close classmates? What hidden secrets will she uncover? Oh, and now she is pregnant by her murdered best friends (still living!) boyfriend.This book started off fantastic. I really enjoy the way Ruth Ware develops her main characters, allowing peeks and glimpses of tarnished personalities. Unfortunately I did not appreciate the ending (for a number of plot spoiling reasons). So what started out as a 4 to 5 star novel drops to 3 stars.
4307032650	Oooooof. This one was not for me. My biggest gripe with this book is I found it so unbelievably boring. I have a good track record with Ruth Ware's books so this was a big let down for me. The writing dragged, and it felt like it took several hundred pages to get going, and then the ending didn't even provide a good pay off to make it worth it.Read in this reading vlog: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvwra...
4728298266	The IT Girl was one of my most anticipated books of the year and it did not disappoint! Thank you so much to Ruth Ware and Gallery Books for my ARC. This book was about Hannah and April, two friends who met at Oxford and quickly became best friends. April is rich and carefree, living her life to the fullest. Hannah is so excited to meet new friends and quickly becomes part of the group. When April is found murdered, Hannah’s life will never be the same. Now years later, Hannah is married and has tried to move on with her life. When April’s convicted killer dies in prison, a journalist finds Hannah and hopes she will help him clear the killer’s name and find the person he thinks really killed April.Thoughts: You know I am a sucker for an academic thriller. I loved the setting of Oxford and the amazing character group Ware wrote into this group. I could imagine them all and loved the set up she provided. I felt that April was pretty much Caroline Calloway, and Hannah was Natalie, happy to be in her world. Like any book by Ruth Ware, the story is gripping, well-written, and completely absorbing. I really loved the characters in this book, even if there were a few things that didn’t add up. The atmosphere was wonderful and the tension was great. Hannah was totally reckless which was irritating to me, and I’m not sure why she was so hung up on April if she was such a bad friend. Anyway, I think the reveal was obvious and much too drawn out. There were lots of red herrings but only one obvious answer. I will absolutely always pick up the newest book by Ruth Ware, and this is no exception. You will see it as a book club choice soon, as I think it will definitely create some good conversation! 4-stars!
4661261708	Ruth Ware's novel The It Girl is edgy and brilliant. Although it is a deeply disturbing murder mystery, it is the ripple effects after the murder that keeps the reader turning pages. With multiple layers of guilt and anxiety, Ruth Ware plays on her fans fear of the unknown. One gets a false sense of having figured out the plot when in reality you aren't even close.Synopsis:After meeting at Oxford College, Hannah and April quickly became best friends. The two girls come from different backgrounds, but enjoy socializing with their friends. The shocking murder of April in their dorm leaves Hannah traumatized and unable to complete college. Years later Hannah struggles to cope when she finds out that her testimony may have put the wrong person in prison. Hannah is determined to find the truth. Who killed April?The It Girl is emotional and gripping. Ruth Ware brings intense realism and magic to the book. As a respected master of words, Ware's writing visually transports you into the story. This is one of the most intriguing psychological thrillers I've read this year. The It Girl is available on July 12th. Don't miss this 5 ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ novel!Thank you, NetGalley and Gallery Books, for allowing me to review this mind-bending book. I love every page of it!
4357075878	I've read most of Ruth Ware's novels in the last few years, enabling me to grab the latest when it is published. While they are not a series, I always prefer reading a writer's books in order so I can see their skills develop. In The It Girl, her 2022 release, I found a great deal of strength in character and setting development with a bit of a lazy storyline occurring (to a small degree). A group of kids start their college year at Oxford and figure out who's crushing on whom, which person can't keep up their grades, who's got money and who is poor, etc. All the normal "clash of culture" things that happen in this type of novel. Then we alternate chapters to current day with two of the characters who have since married. One from the past died, and we know who was put in prison... but was it true? Of course, there's an unexpected twist at the end... had I really focused, I might have figured it out. All along, it was very clear that all the friends had alibis or were definitely in a concurrent scene to when one found the dead friend, so it couldn't be them. But it was, and how that did that happen, is the big question to solve. Great unfolding of the plot, and I was immersed by 25% into the book. Definitely a good example of an author's best work.
4621066957	This is a great book with lots of wow factors. April is an it girl. And Hannah is lucky to have her as a roommate in college. April shows her the joys of having a wealthy lifestyle, introducing her to new friends, clubs, bars, and what college life is all about. Then April is murdered and Hannah helps put her murderer in prison. Ten years go by and Hannah is now married to Will (aprils college boyfriend) and they are pregnant with their first child. Maybe it’s the hormones, but Hannah is having doubts about who murdered April. Could the man she helped put behind bars be innocent? And if so, who killed April??
4870993251	I've read all of Ruth Ware's books and The It Girl is pretty darn good and one of her best works. Has a bit of a modern day Agatha Christie mystery vibe. Worth reading if you like this genre.Hannah Jones and April Clarke-Cliveden are paired as roommates at Oxford. They develop a friendship but before their first school year is up, April is dead. Ten years later and the man convicted of her murder, John Neville, has died in prison. A journalist contacts Hannah and brings up the possibility Neville was innocent. Well, that stirs up a can of worms and Hannah doesn't quite know what to think. She might have to dig deep to get to the bottom of things.Lots of potential suspects in this mystery and that's always fun when you got multiple theories floating around in your head. While I picked up on a few details I knew would play a role later on, I honestly was in the dark until the big reveal. Good luck all you amateur detectives out there trying to figure this one out! Having said that, the elements of the mystery are good but for some reason I wasn't wowed by the ending and I'm not sure why that is the case. It's an above average ending but just didn't quite get to that 5 star level for me. At 400+ pages it's a long read and sometimes the pacing is slow.Hate to leave my review on that note as it sounds like I'm complaining when overall I really enjoyed this book. Can't wait for her next one!
4428972893	3.5 stars - As usual, I really love Ruth Ware's writing and characterization, which is what I see as the special sauce for her books including this one. The college setting is one I really enjoy for thrillers, but I think this suffers from being pretty standard in terms of plot progression and tropes with few surprises (I figured out whodunnit like... immediately). It is also VERY slow burn, which I was good with because of how much I like her writing, but want to flag that for other readersAll in all, a pretty standard thriller made a lot stronger by the author's writing talents. Not her best but still very enjoyable!
5410568869	I liked this better than One by One, so if I could, I'd actually bump this up to 3.5.It was a pretty good whodunit, and it kept me guessing. I had figured out the who fairly quickly, but the motive and the how was unclear for me until the end. I would normally complain the victim would be too old to be called a girl, but her behavior was very immature, so in this case, I'd say that was appropriate. I didn't love the intermingled relationships, and I wish the victim had gone to therapy because her death may have been preventable. But then I'm not sure the protagonist would've ended up where she did had not the victim died, so I suppose it was a necessary plot device.
4733516236	To będzie moja druga ulubiona Ware!✨🫶🏻 Tak mi namieszała w głowie, że ja już sama nie wiedziałam, jak się nazywam😅
4551453820	I love dark academia thrillers 📖🎓🔪.. and this definitely filled my craving. 😋 It was freaking fantastic!!! 🖤💃🏼This follows a group of Oxford coeds 👥🏫👥.. with the most popular of them all, April Coutts-Cliveden aka the “IT GIRL” 👱🏻‍♀️🛍.. found strangled in her dorm room. A porter (John Neville) takes the fall for her murder. Her roommate/best friend Hannah Jones helped to convict him. Fast forward ten years.. Neville has died in prison and now there are claims by a journalist of his innocence. What’s up with that. Unbelievable right.Hannah is strongly second guessing herself. Did she help convict the wrong person? Hannah.. now married with a baby on the way 💍🤰🏻.. takes a deep dive into her past to find the truth. And OH BOY.. the answers she finds completely blew my mind. 🤯 The ending was off the rails and I LOVED IT!!! 🖤 Who knew! This was such a fun, scandalizing ESCAPE, bringing with it suspense, danger and intrigue.. never a dull moment! Can’t wait to see how RW tops this with her next. 5 stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Pub. 7/12/22
4458387460	just damn boring
4641556335	4.5 stars As I was reading this novel, I couldn't help but think that this felt like the books Ruth Ware has always been trying to write/working towards. It felt solid, gripping, and the writing was easy to get lost in. This is the fourth book I've read by her and it's definitely my favorite yet. "The It Girl" has alternating timelines. "Before" and "After." Our "Before" chapters detail a freshman year at Oxford for our main character, Hannah, and her friend group. April is the It Girl the book's title refers to and she is murdered at the end of the school year. "After" flashes forward ten years and finds Hannah grappling with new developments about April's murder and what questions remain unanswered. I loved the way the alternating timelines were done. My one complaint about the book is that I wish that the "Before" chapters would've extended throughout the entirety of the book. There's a point where we slip just in the "After" and I still enjoyed the book, just not as much. I was extremely engaged with how the events of the past tied to the current. This book had a great feel and aesthetic to it as well. It was published in July but I'm delighted to have read it once fall rolled around. It was a little dark and drizzly, the descriptions of Oxford really playing into the grittier tone. I loved envisioning old brick buildings, the ancient feel of the dorms, ivy climbing up barrier walls. It played to the senses for sure! A great addition to Ruth Ware's collection. I'm looking forward to how her work continues to progress!
4594987992	I find Ruth Ware to be a good thriller story teller and I found this book to be in line with that impression. It was long, but I didn’t think it was dragging on, it just covered a lot. I liked the twist at the end, a little more subtle than I would have thought but it really worked for the story. The story takes place in two timelines Before which starts at Hannah’s first day at Oxford and After which starts in the present time. Hannah was excited to go to Oxford and the first person she truly meets is her suite mate April. April is an It Girl, she has money, Beaty, smarts, and attracts all the attention. Hannah’s college experience is shattered when April is found murdered and her testimony sends the man she saw leave their rooms moments before to prison. In the present day he’s passed away and a reporter who is a friend of a friend sends some questions that make her guess what she saw and dig back into the past.
4634588023	This one was fun. I randomly guessed early on, but much misleading information made the journey fun. Some of the final twists were still a surprise. There were several unanswered questions, but overall, I had a good time.Multiple motives always make me wonder what motives would be for people if someone killed me.3.5 Stars rounded up to 4.
4956561511	3.5 stars
4438036479	if you want a more predictable and mediocre version of In My Dreams I Hold A Knife, read this!
4998239931	The IT Girl by Ruth Ware, a mystery thriller novel from the best selling author of 'The Woman in Cabin 10' & 'In a Dark, Dark Wood'. I always wanted to read this author's work and couldn't wait to pick up her recent release.April Coutts-Cliveden was the first person Hannah Jones met at Oxford. The book is about friendship, mystery, thriller and much more. As per me, I would say this one is character driven over plot driven.Would have appreciated if we could get some more twists and turns, because majority of them were predictable according to me. It's a slow built up which I usually don't appreciate in thriller books.Well apart from this the book does get a little bit complicated yet interesting including her pregnancy, and romance is just dead in this book. I'd like to try out other books by the author to pass a better comment on her works!
4406138274	4.5 stars rounded up This was my last Ware novel and my ended up being my favorite one! Hannah came from a quiet background. When she attends university at Pelham in Oxford her world changes. She becomes part of a group of friends with April, Ryan, Hugh, Will, and Emily. Hannah is roommates with April, who she instantly clicks with. April is confident, cunning, and daring. She is the ultimate attractive and influential ‘It Girl’ to know and date. One night near the end of the term, April is murdered in their room. She was strangled, but no one heard her. When Hannah discovers her body, the only plausible explanation is the sly Porter, John Neville, who she saw coming down the stairs minutes before April’s body was found. It all makes sense as John had been creepily following Hannah around all term. But is it really that simple? Years later, Hannah is still traumatized by her best friend’s murder case. John claimed he was innocent and filed for many appeals only to be denied each time. When John dies in jail and a journalist starts to question the specific details and uncovers new information, Hannah has to make a choice to either dig up old memories or let it go. But she can’t seem to truly move on without knowing the truth. Did she send an innocent man to jail? Who really murdered April? Hannah’s intuition tells her that something doesn’t feel right about that night. What is she not remembering? Through much dilemma, Hannah slowly start to piece together the truth, and what is finds is shocking. The It Girl had a very slow build. The author takes time setting the scene, and the details of the murder weren’t revealed for quite a while. There was a good amount of suspense built up as Hannah, ridden with guilt, questions and doubts herself. The first half was slow-paced, but once certain information was divulged I found myself racing to the end. The ending included an action-packed, creepy, and dramatic chase. It had many interesting twists and turns. The reveal was surprising and unpredictable. The mystery had good layers to it and had that ‘but wait there more’ effect as Hannah pieces it all together. Despite the amount of time it took to build up the mystery and reveal details, I really enjoyed this story and thought it was Ware’s best book yet.
4505461155	I received a preview of this book from NetGalley . This book had potential but it turned out like many other books of this genre which was disappointing. Beyond that I found the main character and reading her inner reflections over and over exhausting. The writing was repetitive and not very interesting for me. Kind of a disappointment from an author I’ve enjoyed previously.
4647155182	Review coming soon.
4729760780	This was another fun one - might accidentally read all her books this year.
5775085449	"Hannah empezó a considerar su existencia como dividida abruptamente en dos partes: antes y después. Antes, todo iba bien. Después, todo estaba hecho pedazos.""–Bueno, resumiendo –prosigue Geraint–: seguí leyendo las informaciones del caso y, a principios de este año, escribí un largo artículo sobre él. Se titulaba «Muerte de una it girl: diez años después, diez preguntas sin contestar». A lo mejor hasta lo leíste."
4415752845	Ruth Ware expertly melds a chilling psychological crime thriller and academic mystery into a compelling story of revenge and grief—THE IT GIRL. PERFECT SET UP: Could there ever be a better or more perfect fitting title than (THE IT GIRL), a more academic setting than the historical and nostalgic Oxford University campus or the ideal locale for an atmospheric edge-of-your-seat chilling murder scene in Oxford, England, and modern-day Edinburgh—penned by the master of psychological crime thrillers, RUTH WARE? This book was customed-designed for her! Ruth Ware is a masterful storyteller labeled the Agatha Christie of her generation. Ware writes suspenseful and mysterious gothic novels that all have fantastic plots and truly vivid characters.SPLENDID! All the ingredients for an addictive thriller and campus-lit at its finest! A clear threatHigh stakesTwistsDynamic charactersMemorable locationsAction You can always call upon Ruth Ware when you need an atmospheric and twisting tale. A blending of gothic historical premise...with mysterious modern contemporary twists.Freshman year at Oxford University's famous Pelham College. Let the games begin. Meet April Clarke-Cliveden. She is the "IT GIRL." An extrovert, beautiful, confident, vivacious, privileged, intelligent, wealthy, sophisticated, sexually active, comes from a well-to-do family, designer clothes, and friends. Everyone wants to be her friend, but she can also be a mean, cruel girl, so she will soon have some ENEMIES. Everyone wanted her life.Someone wanted her dead.Meet Hannah Jones. Introvert, boring, and new college roommate of April. She is excited about her life at college but very intimidated by her roommate and comes from a different class and world. Being April's roommate affords her borrowed clothes, party invitations, and an "in" to April's friends—Will, Hugh, Ryan, and Emily. However, before the end of the second term, April is DEAD. Flash forward ten years later, the person sent to prison for April's murder was the former Oxford porter, John Neville, who claimed his innocence until his most recent heart attack in prison and untimely death at age 63. Now a journalist is claiming new evidence that John was innocent. Hannah is now second-guessing herself since her testimony was the critical one that sealed his fate. Did someone else go into the dorm room before John and sneak out?Hannah now works for an independent book store and is married to Will —Yes, the same Will that dated April, and they all were friends and bonded over grief after April's death. They are expecting a baby. Instead of planning for the baby, Hannah is too caught up in sleuthing, trying to retrace all the steps and tracking down all the friends from their former college group to determine the actual killer. She is obsessed and cannot think of anything else. If it was not John, could it be one of them or someone she knows? Is the killer still out there? Hannah feels a compelling need to revisit the murder with the three Oxford friends that knew April best, even though her husband, Will, is against it. He is acting strange. The doctor Hugh, the mathematician Emily, and Ryan, who has suffered a stroke since their college years. EVERYONE IS A SUSPECT. Foreboding and moody, the author keeps readers on a razor-sharp edge in a race against time from before and after. Utterly propulsive, vivid, and atmospheric. For fans of Lisa Jewell, Carol Goodman, Lisa Unger, Shari Lapena, Megan Miranda, and B.A. Paris.A special thank you to #GalleryBooks and #NetGalley for an ARC to read, enjoy, and review. Blog Review Posted @www.JudithDCollins.com @JudithDCollins | #JDCMustReadBooksMy Rating: 5 Stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Pub Date: July 12, 2022 July 2022 Must-Read Books
4982722320	I found this audiobook on Scrib'd, which is a service I'm really coming to enjoy. The narrator did a passable job, though I didn't think her performance was great when she had to voice characters beyond the few main characters. If these things bother you, you might opt for the print format.I'm not going to spend a lot of time reviewing this book because I thought it was pretty standard fare for a mystery thriller. The character development was solid, as was the plot development. The pacing was delightful, such a slow burn in the best sense of the word, the story couldn't spin out fast enough to please me! I thought I knew the whole time who had done the terrible thing, I was really convinced I was right...It was a really good, surprising climax. The denouement was dragged out though.Rating 🥵🥵🥵🥵 / 5 strangling victimsFinished November 2022Read this if you like:🔍 Mysteries☠️ Murder stories🚨 Thrillers⚖️ Wrongful accusations👣 Stalking stories🕰 Dual timelines
4941161149	If you play a drinking game with this book and drink a shot every time you read the word ‘bump’ you will get very, VERY drunk.
4707757998	This is a psychological thriller about a murder that happened at at Oxford University to a rich, attractive It girl student - April Coutts-ClivedonHannah Jones is the main character, who joins the university and shares accommodation with April, but feels she's not really worthy to be there, and seems to have quite low esteem but becomes good friends with April (not entirely sure why) and all her pals, Emily, Hugh, Will and Ryan. The book flits between the before and after. The before leading up to the murder, while they are all students, and the now being 10 years later where a pregnant Hannah Jones is married to April's ex - Will. Hannah is now wondering if the right person was murdered after she hears the convicted person has died in prison and starts to look into things and catch up with old friends. It feels like quite a familiar storyline and is quite a long book, but is very well written and I did enjoy it and would definitely like to read more by this author. I didn't like the characters much and felt Hannah was too wishy washy to be true, but didn't detract from the book. Lots of twists and turns and great suspense and ending. This is the first book I've read by Ruth Ware so didn't start with any pre-empted ideas about the author and look forward to reading more. The one thing I would say though is I actually listened to the audio version of this book as didn't get to it in time before the publication date and made the mistake of listening to the audio version of this book. DONT listen to it, it really let the book down. Imogen Church's narration was terrible and had too much emphasis on certain words. and pauses between others. I have never known a narrator speak soooooo slowwwwly it was painful. There was also an echo in the background at times. I had to speed up the narration to 1.4 and 1.5 in speed as couldn't bear the slow speech, and annoying voices that the narrator put on. It did cut out a good couple of hours of the original length of the audio book. That said the book itself was good, the narrated version was not. 4* for the bookLess than 1* for narrationA big thank you to Simon & Schuster UK for the opportunity to read and review this book.
4852135041	4.5/5Well Ruth Ware has gone and done it again and fully redeemed herself! While I wasn't a huge fan of One by One, I had high hopes that the next book would be better and of course, it was. I loved that not only is a lot of The It Girl set at Oxford but there is plenty going on in both timelines to really keep things interesting. I loved the way Ware blended the past and the present together until everything ultimately comes to a head, and there was exceptionally amazing suspense built by constantly switching between the two. April was the epitome of an it girl, and I could easily see why Hannah was drawn to her. The school setting is one of my favorites and I especially loved the way Ware brought Oxford to life despite being nervous about it. I was also completely blown away by how the story ended and despite sensing something a little fishy, I couldn’t quite pinpoint exactly where that would lead. There was one aspect that just killed me and I’m still not sure how I feel about it, but the rest was perfection and totally shocking. As if you need another audiobook recommendation from me, but if you do, I will say that The It Girl is a great one! Imogen Church quickly became one of my favorite narrators and I have listened to so many books now that she has voiced. She did an amazing job with this story, and I found her very fitting to voice Hannah. Church is incredibly talented, and I promise you that you can’t go wrong with the audio. It is about 17 hours long as the book is a little chunky, and I swear Church literally made it speed by. This is a crazy ride and if you enjoy Ware’s novels you will not be disappointed! Thank you to the publishers for my complimentary listening and reader copies of this book. All opinions and thoughts are my own.
4573120701	3.5 ish rounding to 4 for GR! Ware is typically hit or miss for me (loved THE TURN OF THE KEY and THE LYING GAME but didn’t love all the others) so i went in with low expectations. it was far too long—no thriller should be in the 400+ page mark—but i was invested and found her writing to be one of her best! a solid combo of IN MY DREAMS I HOLD A KNIFE and THE MAIDENS. campus setting, lots of red herrings, big friend group, and everyone is effected in some way by the murder of their dear friend—the “it” girl who was beautiful and had it all. i was wrong on the “twist” (had two theories and both were squashed) so that is always fun for me since it’s typically hard to be stumped with the volume of thrillers i read :) thanks to Gallery/Scout Press for the gifted ARC! full review to come on my IG before pub day in mid-July.
4744362798	This was very long, very boring, very predictable, and very much devoid of thrills.
6068122296	Will and Hannah are expecting their first child. I loved how happy and excited they were as an expecting couple, but these happy times were overshadowed by events from their joint past that were making headlines in the news again. Everyone becomes a suspect in this highly charged drama involving a set of Oxford college friends who are all implicated, in one way or another, in the murder of the beautiful April Clarke-Cliveden. April was admired for her beauty and her daring, but her love of pranking her friends was sorely straining everyone's patience...! Hannah suffers a near breakdown when she discovers April's body late one night in their shared dorm rooms. Hannah is hounded by the press and ends up leaving college and moving to Edinburgh. The evidence points squarely at the creepy Security Guard, and Hannah's testimony helped gain a speedy conviction. Ten years later, the death of the convicted killer is in the press, and this time doubt is being raised as to whether he in fact was the true killer. Which among them was capable of murder.... and why?!!!I could not put this one down: I enjoyed every tense, action-packed moment! Highly recommended!
