893346473	E.M. Forster ( Howards End , A Room With A View ) finished this gay-themed novel in 1914, and though he showed it to some close friends, he didn't publish it in his lifetime. It eventually came out after his death, in the early 1970s.What a gift to have a novel about same sex love written a century ago by one of the premier 20th century British authors!When Forster penned Maurice, homosexuality was so taboo that there was no name for it. For a man to be with another man was a criminal offense. One of the most touching things about this very moving book is seeing the protagonist – the closeted, very ordinary stockbroker Maurice – struggling to describe who he is and what he's feeling. He eventually comes up with something about Oscar Wilde. So very sad. But how triumphant for Forster to have written this book and dedicated it "to a happier year." No one would argue that this is Forster's best novel. But it's an invaluable document about a group of men who experience the love that dare not speak its name (to borrow from Wilde). I appreciate the fact that Maurice, unlike Forster himself, is a very unremarkable man: he's conservative, a bit of a snob, not very interested in music or philosophy and rather dull. But he's living with this extraordinary secret that affects his entire life. And the book shows how he deals with it, in his secretive relationship with his Cambridge friend Clive Durham, and later with gamekeeper Alec Scudder. It would have been so easy for Forster to write a novel about a sensitive, soulful, brilliant, sympathetic character. How could we not love him, even though he's gay? But that seems to be part of his point. Maurice is a middle-class Everyman – certainly he's not as intelligent as Clive – but isn't he as worthy of love as anyone else?Some details in the book are dated. The language at times feels stilted. The class system isn't as pronounced today as it was then. And of course there's a whole new attitude towards homosexuality and thousands of books to reflect that.But there are still people and organizations trying to "cure" others of homosexuality (think of the group Exodus); young people are still committing suicide because of their sexuality; gays and lesbians are still choosing to live a closeted life by marrying members of the opposite sex; and let's not forget that in some parts of the world, being gay is cause for death.So really: how dated is this book? Considering that authors decades after Forster wrote veiled gay characters in straight drag, or killed off one or more characters (see: Brokeback Mountain), how revolutionary is it to have a gay love story with a happy ending? It's absolutely revolutionary. Now: who's going to write the sequel?
3453850159	Maurice is a book, among few others, where I’d like to not only share a select few quotes with you, but transcribe the whole story from start to finish. I’d also love to delve deep into the story behind the book, and its creator E. M. Forster. Maurice is “his story” in two senses of the term: firstly, it is a story that was born from his mind and his hand, and secondly, from his own experiences. He begins this book with the dedication: “Begun 1913, Finished 1914, Dedicated to a Happier Year.” Forster made arrangements to have it remain unpublished until after his death in 1970. At the time that he wrote this, homosexuality was illegal in England. A character from Maurice says at one point in the story, “England has always been disinclined to accept human nature.” Homosexuality was eventually legalized in 1967, just 3 years before Forsters death. Imagine waiting and wishing your whole life for your own country's acceptance, and getting it at age 88. Out of his 91 years of living, only 3 were ones of legal freedom. While reading about Maurice’s own internal struggle, I couldn’t help but feel that Forster was using Maurice as a way to give voice to his own private toil. “He had awoken too late for happiness, but not for strength, and could feel an austere joy, as of a warrior who is homeless but stands fully armed.”Forster showed, in a heartbreaking yet beautiful way, how Society can influence people to the point of dishonesty. Forced to put up walls between their true self and who they think they should be. Leading to them not only betraying who they “love,” but betraying themselves. One of the characters askes the other, “After all, is not a real Hell better than a manufactured Heaven?” At times Maurice being a “gentleman” seemed sexist, elitist, and proud. Yet, there comes a point when station, position, sex, and education don’t matter. That is the profound truth about love, it conquers all. “He educated Maurice’s spirit, for they themselves became equal. Neither thought ‘Am I led; am I leading?’ Love had caught him out of triviality and Maurice out of bewilderment in order that two imperfect souls might touch perfection.”Being a novelist, Forster had a power that neither England, God, or anyone could tamper with. That is, he could give Maurice the life and ending that was never given to himself. He held the pen, he was Maurice’s creator, and being so meant that he was in control of his own character’s fate. Fiction warrants everything, all the author needs to do is write. “At times he entertained the dream. Two men can defy the world.”E. M. Forster on writing the ending of Maurice:“A happy ending was imperative. I shouldn’t have bothered to write otherwise. I was determined that in fiction anyway two men should fall in love and remain in it for the ever that fiction allows, and in this sense, Maurice and _____ still roam the greenwood.”
2369853680	The second dream is more difficult to convey. Nothing happened. He scarcely saw a face, scarcely heard a voice say, “That is your friend,” and then it was over, having filled him with beauty and taught him tenderness. He could die for such a friend, he would allow such a friend to die for him; they would make any sacrifice for each other, and count the world nothing, neither death nor distance nor crossness could part them, because “this is my friend.” Maurice follows the story of Maurice, a gay man in the early 1900s, as he falls in love, gets his heart broken, and gets his heart repaired. This book hit me… really hard. There are two love stories here, one between Maurice and his school partner, and one between him and a garden worker. In one of these, his class colleague asks for their relationship to never go beyond kissing; he is always at arms’ length, until he is discarded altogether. In one of these, he is free to love as he is, freed from the bounds of false intellectualism and performance. It’s not clear from the summary how sectioned this book is, but it is decidedly split: the first half deals with Clive and the eventual breakdown of that relationship, while the second half deals with Maurice’s attempts to ‘cure’ himself and then eventually, with Alec. I found the first half of this novel interesting. The second half made me cry of happiness. It’s infused with so much more hope. The final scene focuses point of view on Clive, framed in the light, while Maurice is a voice in the dark; that, though, is his happy ending. Maurice ends the novel in love in the dark, while Clive ends the novel thinking that his lack of love in the light is superior. (It is we, as the audience, who must make our own decisions on that matter.) I enjoyed the movie, which I saw before reading the book, a lot. Though it’s easy to quibble with certain changes made from the book to the movie, there’s one bit I particularly like: the final shot, in which Clive looks out at the greens, wondering what he could have had, had he not been afraid. In so doing, Forster creates an idea of love in the dark as a positive thing. This reminded me of that quote from Black Sails: “In the dark, there is discovery, there is possibility, there is freedom in the dark once someone has illuminated it.” I love how Jami @JamiShelves put it in her review: “Forster invokes the concept of the Greenwood as a metaphor for relationships existing outside the socially accepted framework for romance. The Greenwood exists as an unrestrained space, drawing connotations of 'the wilderness'. The country acts as a locus for desire, its existence outside the restraints of society and allowing desire to flourish unrestrained.” There’s something profound about giving a happy ending to two men falling in love in a time where they were few and far between. In the outro, E.M. Forster says this: “A happy ending was imperative. I shouldn't have bothered to write otherwise. I was determined that in fiction anyway two men should fall in love and remain in it for the ever and ever that fiction allows, and in this sense, Maurice and Alec still roam the greenwood.” When this book was written, in 1913 and 1914, this seemed almost ridiculous, that two men could fall in love, and not marry, and be happy. Forster wrote this novel almost to challenge that idea. This book could not even published until after his death, in 1971, and was then incredibly controversial. This book made me feel like I believe in love again. Also, and this is only a minor spoiler, but I think about this scene a lot: “You do care a little for me, I know... but nothing to speak of, and you don't love me. I was yours once till death if you'd cared to keep me, but I'm someone else's now... and he's mine in a way that shocks you, but why don't you stop being shocked, and attend to your own happiness.” (view spoiler)[to my ex: i fucked your gamekeeper. in your house. and in a hotel. and in your boathouse. bye lmao see you never -Maurice at the end of this book (hide spoiler)]TW: conversion attempts & suicidal ideation. (view spoiler)[what if it was 1910 and i crawled through your window and gave you a kiss and then you realized you were in love with me after giving my last name to your schoolteacher... and we were both boys (hide spoiler)]Blog | Twitter | Instagram | Spotify | Youtube | About |
918378048	"Begun 1913Finished 1914Dedicated to a Happier Year”Edward Morgan Forster (1879-1970) wrote Maurice (*) as a relatively young man, aged 34, at a time when old Europe was starting to fall apart. However, it was not published until 1971, a year after his death. Maurice is probably the first literary work of fiction to deal with male homosexuality in such an open, sincere fashion. At the time it was written, men in the UK could still be imprisoned for ‘acts of gross indecency’, as in the Oscar Wilde trial. Publishing this book at that time would have destroyed the deeply admired English novelist. Of course, E. M. Forster’s readers had no idea that the author of very successful novels such as Howards End and A Passage to India loved men. Nevertheless, he let his work be reviewed by his literary friends who knew of his sexuality: He was loosely connected with the ‘Bloomsbury Group’, the literary and artistic circle with such prominent members as Virginia Woolf, Duncan Grant and Lytton Strachey. For the time, the members of the Bloomsbury Group had a very open and unconventional approach to sexuality, and among this group E. M. Forster’s novel could be discussed openly. In public, however, he successfully covered up his sexuality, and I wonder if this might be one of the reasons why I found Forster’s Howards End rather frigid and detached. I second Katherine Mansfield when she complains about Howards End: “E.M. Forster never gets any farther than warming the teapot. He’s a rare fine hand at that. Feel this teapot. Is it not beautifully warm? Yes, but there ain’t going to be no tea " (Introduction p. xxiv).Well, in Maurice, E. M. Forster pours hot boiling water over spicy tea leaves. Forster intriguingly describes Maurice Hall’s journey of self-discovery and his sexual awakening. Maurice comes from a conventional middle-class background with a lukewarm mentality. He is very much an average guy (even though Forster describes him as rather good-looking and athletic): not very intellectual, and a bit arrogant. His being sexually different initially comes across as a hindrance to his plans to follow in his deceased father’s footsteps: “Maurice was stepping into the niche that England had prepared for him.” (p.45). Nevertheless, early in the novel Forster gives hints that Maurice has always known he is ‘different’: Maurice remarks early on “I think I shall not marry”, and he is rather baffled when he realises that he is overwhelmed by the fact that his mother’s garden boy George – with whom he used to play in the ‘woodstack’ when he was a boy – gave notice and left. Maurice is, after all, a snob and he would never consider himself a friend of George. Nevertheless, George’s departure unsettles him and he does not really know why he has these special feelings. Feelings of this kind become clearer when he moves to Cambridge for his studies and meets Clive Durham, with whom he fells in love. Clive’s pedigree is more sophisticated: he descends from landed gentry. Clive is deeply torn about his sexuality, even though he makes the first step in admitting his feelings for Maurice. Foster does not shy away from describing romantic moments between the two and he shows perfectly his skills in evoking beauty: ‘I knew you read the ‘Symposium’ in the vac,’ he said in a low voice.Maurice felt uneasy. ‘Then you understand – without me saying more –‘‘How do you mean?’Durham could not wait. People were all around them, but with eyes that had gone intensely blue he whispered, ‘I love you.’ (p. 48)Clive considers himself a Hellenist and he celebrates “the love that Socrates bore Phaedo…love passionate but temperate” (p.85). They both set out on a philosophical journey of self-discovery about their sexuality and their place in society. Forster tries to be as open as possible in his depiction of them. We learn that both, especially Clive, have misogynistic tendencies. Alas, it is Forster himself who does not give the reader the opportunity to appreciate a fully rounded female character in his book. This brings me to Forster’s theory of flat and round characters. In E.M. Forster’s Aspects of the Novel, he explains: “The test of a round character is whether it is capable of surprising in a convincing way” (p.81). Maurice in particular passes his creator’s test with flying colours. Even though he might be snobbish, arrogant and misogynistic at the beginning of the narrative, the reader cannot ignore how he develops into a more tolerant and self-aware person, capable of tender feelings. What made this reader root for Maurice was his sincerity towards himself and thus his integrity. Despite all his inner struggles, he allows himself to be who he is; this makes him such an attractive character, not only to the reader but also to others characters in the book. Of course, only we as readers know his innermost thoughts and feelings. Forster offers us a deep insight into these thoughts, where we can learn how sincere and full of integrity Maurice becomes: “He would not deceive himself so much. He would not – and this was the test – pretend to care about women when the only sex that attracted him was his own. He loved men and always had loved them. He longed to embrace them and mingle his being with theirs. Now that the man who returned his love had been lost, he admitted this.” (p. 51)Indeed, he loses his first love to conformity. Clive decides to adapt to his family’s requirements and "beautiful conventions" and grows slowly away from Maurice. Ironically, it is on Clive’s journey to Greece that he lets Maurice know by letter that “…I have become normal, I cannot help it” (p.101). Not long after, he marries and settles in at Penge (his late father’s estate) as the squire everybody expected him to become. Forster gives us only a few glimpses into Clive’s inner thoughts and monologues, but they are enough to make the reader understand that Clive lives in denial and self-deception. “One cannot write those words too often: Maurice’s loneliness: it increased.”(p.124)In the meantime, Maurice goes through hell. He begins to doubt his own sexuality and increasingly feels lonely. Forster’s description of Maurice’s journey of self-loathing and loneliness gets directly under the reader’s skin. These are powerful passages which help enormously in empathising not only with Maurice, but with thousands of other men in real life who have had to go through a similar hell. “Yet he was doing a fine thing – proving on how little the soul can exist. Fed neither by Heaven nor by Earth he was going forward, a lamp that would have blown out, were materialism true. He hadn’t a God, he hadn’t a lover – the two usual incentives to virtue.” (p.126)He eventually seeks advice from a doctor he has befriended, confessing that he is “an unspeakable of the Oscar Wilde sort”. I don’t want to spoil the doctor’s answer, but I can assure you that it did not help Maurice’s self-esteem at all. It is on the peak of his crisis that he meets the third important character in the book: Alec Scudder, the gamekeeper at Penge, Clive’s estate. Forster likes to let different characters from different social classes bump into each other, as his novel Howards End shows brilliantly. Alec Scudder, the gamekeeper, who everybody in Maurice’s circle simply calls ‘Scudder’, belongs to the ‘class of outdoors-men’. He is a man of nature with natural instincts. The reader cannot really unravel his inner thoughts; Forster leaves us almost in the dark. This is certainly deliberate: Scudder remains the active, pushy, slightly aggressive and sexually attractive, almost mysterious ‘country lad’ for the reader. Today he would probably be categorised as bisexual. He instinctively feels Maurice’s pain and reacts accordingly to his nature. With Alec Scudder, Maurice eventually reaches sexual fulfilment.“They must live outside class, without relations or money; they must work and stick to each other till death. But England belonged to them. That, besides companionship, was their reward.” (p.212)Alec Scudder, who in the book represents carnality, the rural and nature (in comparison to Clive, who stands for the intellectual and platonic love) will eventually be the key to Maurice’s ‘liberation’. Together with Maurice, the reader discovers, after several bumps in the road, the route to Maurice and Alec’s happiness. This happy ending to Forster’s novel has much been discussed. I was not entirely convinced, even though it has its roots in real life: namely in the concept of ‘Uranian love’(**) and the relationship between Edward Carpenter and George Merrill, who Forster visited in 1913 and who were an inspiration for this book. I am not sure if it is really a happy ending for Maurice and Alec, but I think it was the best possible end to the book, given the socio-political situation at the time. Forster writes in his Terminal Note: “A happy ending was imperative. I shouldn’t have bothered to write otherwise” (p.220). I, for my part, tend to agree with Forster’s Bloomsbury friend Lytton Strachey, who wrote in a letter to E.M. Forster that “the relationship of the two rested upon curiosity and lust and would only last six weeks” (Terminal Note, p. 222). I can sympathise with Strachey’s train of thought: Maurice and Alec are first and foremost attracted sexually to each other and only later recognise that “what unites them is the need to fight a common enemy” (Introduction, p. xxii).Despite these minor flaws, Maurice is still an important novel. E. M. Forster wrote it in 1913/14 and revised it in 1960. In his Terminal Note, written in 1960, he recognises a change in the public attitude towards homosexuality: “the change from ignorance and terror to familiarity and contempt” (Terminal Note, p. 224). Still, it took another seven years until the laws criminalizing acts of ‘gross indecency’ by men were abolished in England. Today, the legal situation in Europe has improved significantly; one could only have dreamed of it fifty years ago. This is of course a very positive development. In the meantime, we should be aware that there are still nations where LGBT people are persecuted, incarcerated and even put to death for their sexuality. The human race still has a long way to go. Let me thus go a step further and suggest that it is not enough to implement legally protected equality, even though this must be an unalienable right. We as a society ask our governments for rights which guarantee equality. But, I ask myself, does society really embrace and integrate diversity in everyday life? Forster writes pointedly: “We had not realized that what the public really loathes in homosexuality is not the thing itself but having to think about it” (Terminal Note p. 224). I can only speak for my part of the world and my generation, but I feel part of a monolithic world where sexual diversity has not yet reached unconscious acceptance and self-evident equality, and where definitions such as ‘gay’ and ‘homo’ are still used (unconsciously?) as an insult. Just look at the advertising industry, mainstream TV or cinema: one rarely finds ‘rainbow families’ or same-sex couples. And of course the male action hero is supposed to be heterosexual. While there has been constant change for the better during the past few years, it is still slow; and I am afraid we still have a long wait before there is a gay James Bond and nobody thinks anything of it. Until then, books like Maurice have lost none of their relevance. **********************************************(*) I highly recommend the Penguin Classics Edition with an introduction and notes by David Leavitt.(**) “Uranians: The term has its origins in Plato’s Symposium, in which Pausanius argues that men who are inspired by Heavenly Aphrodite (Aphrodite Urania) as opposed to Common Aphrodite (Aphrodite Pandeumia) “are attracted to the male sex…their intention is to form a lasting attachment and partnership for life”. In the 1860s and 1870s, Karl Heinrich Ulrichs promulgated the German Urning, the English version of which was subsequently put into circulation by Edward Carpenter and the art historian John Addington Symonds.” (Notes by David Leavitt, p. 232).
5657207519	It feels so good to find a book like Maurice that I can appreciate despite its imperfections. Trying to judge it too objectively would mean rejecting the connection I felt with it. It is the best book by Forster that I have read. Objectively, it has probably aged the least. But more importantly, this gay treasure, kept secret by its author his entire life (an irony that aligns too much with the history of gay people, forced to remain hidden for so long), has an intoxicating hope for gay love. Perhaps times have changed, but I believe we still need this hope.
6570469616	Oh, what is there that I dare say about Maurice? Maurice, the man, is an interesting bloke in that he isn't what I would call likeable, but he has a certain charm to him that pulls you and makes you love him. We meet him at the beginning of his self-discovery and, while it may be due obstinance and a bit of obliviousness as a man with considerable privilege who had never questioned his sexuality before and somehow has been impervious to early 1900s society and their adamance of how wrong homosexuality is, he stays on a path that is true to himself. The backdrop is a very real society that very much hates queer people and would do anything to change them or hide them away, but he himself, in a very pure way, is hope. This is beautiful written, incredibly quotable. It is also incredibly tragic in a way that I did not expect, but that I can imagine is quite realistic. I loved watching the movie after finishing it as it showed a bit of a different perspective, feeling like a missing piece of the story, an extension that maybe couldn't have been said, or didn't really need to be said when it was written. It didn't get published for over 50 years because Forster was adamant that there be a happy ending, which was not acceptable at the time. While at times it is painful and raw, it is also filled with joy and love and I love Forster so much for refusing to make this tragic just so it could get published.
4159156623	«A Inglaterra nunca foi propensa a aceitar a natureza humana.»Numa época em que a lei inglesa considerava a homossexualidade um crime, Forster era homossexual, e o facto de não o ter podido reconhecer publicamente marcou a sua obra.«Maurice» aborda cautelosamente a homossexualidade, mas com um mínimo de pormenores, cria um ambiente de tensão sexual e erótica muito subtil.«Ele tinha mentido. (...) mas a mentira é o alimento natural da adolescência, e ele tinha comido sofregamente.(..) Não voltaria a enganar-se tanto a si próprio. (...). Amava homens e sempre os amara. Ansiava por abraçá-los e misturar o seu ser com o deles. Agora que perdera o homem que tinha correspondido ao seu amor, ele admitiu isto.»Uma adolescência mentindo a si próprio e o fim de uma relação com um jovem da sua classe social marcaram o seu caminho de auto-aprendizagem e aceitação.«Era um fora-da-lei mascarado. Talvez que, entre aqueles que nos tempos antigos se tinham tornado fugitivos, tivesse havido dois homens como ele — dois. Por vezes alimentava esse sonho. Dois homens podem desafiar o mundo.»E é desse desafio que o livro trata, e — como noutros livros do Morgan — com um homem de classe social inferior e estrangeiro.Corajoso. Comovente. Maravilhosamente escrito.
1638869079	If Dorian Gray is the dramatic, scandal-creating gay classic, than Maurice is the snobbish yet emotionally moving gay classic. Written in 1913-14 but only published sixty years later, this is a book that is impressive - not because of its romance - but because of the character's personal journey towards self acceptance.Began 1913, finished 1914. Dedicated to a happier year. With this heartbreaking opening statement, the story begins. We get to follow Maurice Hall as he grows up and starts to realize that he's attracted to men. This is not an easy realization: this story takes place, and was published, in England at the beginning of the 20th century. A time in which gay men (and women) are "nonsense!" or "get send to asylums, thank god!" So this book is already unique for being so open and honest about (Maurice's) homosexual relationships. Despite knowing society's views, Maurice is certain of his love for his fellow student Clive Durham, a young man fan of the Classics like the story of Achilles & Patroclus. And while Clive and Maurice are a far cry from those Greek heroes - the English men are snobbish and have misogynistic tendencies - their love is treated with emotion and tenderness surprising for its time. “He educated Maurice, or rather his spirit educated Maurice's spirit, for they themselves became equal. Neither thought "Am I led; am I leading?" Love had caught him out of triviality and Maurice out of bewilderment in order that two imperfect souls might touch perfection.” Yet it is exactly this romance between Maurice and Clive (and Maurice and his future partner) that didn't convince me. The love between the first couple felt too intellectual and stiff - befitting for their characters - but it made me unable to ‘root’ for them. With the second couple, love became too serious too quickly; their love was more lust instead of true. I had some similar problems with the romance in A Room with a View: I felt for the characters, just not for their (not-existing) chemistry. But who cares about romance when the author is able to make you feel for a snobbish gay prat? Maurice's struggle and ultimately acceptance of his own sexuality is very moving and remarkable; because as mentioned in the author's final words "it made this book harder to publish. If it ended unhappily, with a lad dangling from a noose or with a suicide pact, all would be well.” [page 220] It's this bleak and grim reality - which echoes a bit in today's society - that proves all the more why people should read Maurice. Like my friend Lydia said in her review: “it makes me wonder what other books were written throughout history and never published, because they had a theme of same-sex love.”
2420904815	Possibly my new favourite book of the year so far. I absolutely loved this one - beautiful, moving, such a powerful read.
3532814565	oh my goodness oh my goodness oh my goodnessoh my fucking god this was heavenly
5313502113	The story of Maurice is very simple, you could summarise it in one sentence. But the story about Maurice is complicated.He began writing it in 1912 and finished it more or less a year later. He wrote it knowing it could never be published in his lifetime. He was writing it entirely for himself. But soon he began to let a few friends read it, with varying responses. It’s a curious thing reading a novel that the author knew couldn’t be published in his lifetime, maybe never. Forster had a problem. He began thinking that it was perfectly okay to be a homosexual so long as you kept your relationships platonic (a very strange idea to modern ears). Then he changed his mind, reasonably. But he always believed “nothing is more obdurate to artistic treatment than the carnal”. So the first big three year long relationship Maurice has is ascetically pure. The second one isn’t, but Forster the author is still far too queasy to go into details. And that’s understandable, this book was written before Lady Chatterley’s Lover and before Ulysses. After it was finished it sat in a drawer for sixty years. In the UK homosexuality was made illegal in 1885 and by 1955 over 1000 men per year were being thrown in jail for it. When some prominent toffs were busted Parliament became unhappy and an investigation began. In 1957 their report recommended decriminalisation. It took another ten years for Parliament to pass the law making homosexuality legal. During this limbo period Forster’s friends encouraged him to publish Maurice but like Amy Winehouse he just said no, no, no. He knew that the roof would fall in on him if he did. He died aged 91 in 1970 and Maurice was published in 1971.People think this book is brave but flawed, and they’re right. He determined that his hero would be a dour, unimaginative, dull upper middle class guy, as opposed to all the aesthetic Wildean types and the outrageous Anthony (Brideshead) Blanches. Here’s one example of the way Maurice thinks :The feeling that can impel a gentleman towards a person of lower class stands self-condemned.Like that? Here’s more :”I’ve had to do with the poor too,” said Maurice, taking a piece of cake, “but I can’t worry over them. One must give them a leg up for the sake of the country generally, that’s all. They haven’t our feelings. They don’t suffer as we should in their place.”So his homosexual hero is made deliberately unlikable. And then, he wanted to really upset the applecart with his novel’s ending. He wrote :A happy ending was imperative, I shouldn’t have bothered to write otherwise. I was determined that in fiction anyway two men should fall in love and remain in it for the ever and ever that fiction allows… it has made the book more difficult to publish…if it ended unhappily, with a lad dangling from a noose or with a suicide pact, all would be well…All of this is very good. But for me there were a few too many passages where Forster strayed into what sounded like pure blather to me : The love that Socrates bore Phaedo now lay within his reach, love passionate but temperate, such as only finer natures can understand, and he found in Maurice a nature that was not indeed fine, but charmingly willing. He led the beloved up a narrow and beautiful path, high above either abyss. It went on until the final darkness—he could see no other terror—and when that descended they would at all events have lived more fully than either saint or sensualist, and would have extracted to their utmost the nobility and sweetness of the world. He educated Maurice, or rather his spirit educated Maurice’s spirit, for they themselves became equal. Neither thought “Am I led; am I leading?” Love had caught him out of triviality and Maurice out of bewilderment in order that two imperfect souls might touch perfection.Even so I’m inclined to give Forster a huge amount of the benefit of the doubt. This is a landmark novel LET’S CONCLUDE WITH ONE OF THE BLEAKEST DESCRIPTIONS OF A HETEROSEXUAL MIDDLECLASS MARRIAGE YOU WILL EVER READWhen he arrived in her room after marriage, she did not know what he wanted. Despite an elaborate education, no one had told her about sex. Clive was as considerate as possible, but he scared her terribly, and left feeling she hated him. She did not. She welcomed him on future nights. But it was always without a word. They united in a world that bore no reference to the daily, and this secrecy drew after it much else of their lives. So much could never be mentioned. He never saw her naked, nor she him. They ignored the reproductive and the digestive functions. In conclusion, probably not a 4 star read, but definitely a 4 star novel.
4361850199	So tender and intimate; I almost felt like I was intruding in on the characters. Where authors like Wilde and Waugh skirt around the subject, Forster presents a firm, bitter condemnation of English homophobia. I'm astonished that Forster wrote about the subject so bluntly and with so much vision in 1913, especially considering he completed it at a time when Maurice and Alec's love was law-defying. I guess it's because above all else, Maurice is clearly a very personal story.There might not be much going on between the lines—but the fact that Forster refused to write a bleak ending, just so there was at least one story in the world where gay lovers could be happy, even if it was unrealistic, is social commentary enough for me. Long live the Unspeakable Vice of the Greeks.
1729828194	“After all, is not a real Hell better than a manufactured Heaven?”
4908872757	I wouldn't be the first to say how much this book affected me when I first read it. The goodness of the main character reflected my own desire to be 'good' at the time and, like him I was unable to achieve my goal. Thank gawd for that! The read was wonderful but hard, primarily because the author/the character resorted to the same dead-end solutions that many of us have since. Only his honesty makes it bearable. He’s such an attentive observer, especially of himself. One example comes to mind. During hypnosis, he cries out. “I like short hair best. ' 'Why?' 'Because I can stroke it -' and he began to cry.” He didn’t pull that out of thin air. Those tears were his.
5413128603	I wanted to like this, I really did. But it just wasn’t my reading day when I picked it up so I lost my interest quickly, which sucks. But I will give this book another chance, I know I will. And I’ll be excited to pick it up again :,)
4313776419	Maurice ran so that Call Me by Your Name could crawl.
570474266	Vladimir Nabokov wrote in Pnin: Some people—and I am one of them—hate happy ends. We feel cheated. Harm is the norm. Doom should not jam. The avalanche stopping in its tracks a few feet above the cowering village behaves not only unnaturally but unethically. This is true for me as well. While of course I was cheering for the titular hero through the course of his internal and external struggle for identity, I can't help but feel, after finishing the book "well, that was very nice, but life is not like that!" Endings are very particular thing, there is no sense of an ending in a novel, that is excepting for death. Madame Bovary, Anna Karenina, Lolita, etc. are all very satisfying in their fatal finales. It is the sad ending, the nadir and despair which is reached as the hero comes to the final fall, that is what satisfies a reader. It is the bottom which gives us the sense of completion, and not the peak. We are never finished with a full glass, only an empty one. The ending for Maurice is a happy one, and deliberately so, as was the intention of Forster, but I am not sure it is the right one. The whole story of Scudder to me seems a bit forced, a bit sudden, and a bit melodramatic; the reason to love this book is rather for the first half with the slow but genuine kinship between Maurice and Clive.This is, of course, a "gay novel" - perhaps the early prototype of the pandering, panegyric course which that genre has taken: the road from internal struggle to external/societal struggle, to personal acceptance and then to the (not reached in Maurice) ultimate acceptance and embrace from the society or community at large. To be sure it is an interesting story, but with inevitable issue of being pigeonholed by its very protagonist's proclivities. I have been thinking very much about the statement that "gay novels don't sell" - and I would largely agree with this sentiment. For the same reason gay movies don't sell, etc. Of course there is the significance of numbers: homosexuals (apparently) constitute only ten-percent of the population at large, a small market. But if you consider the proliferation of successful black-novels, for example, certainly there success rides not on their portrayed demographic, but rather the entire market. I'm sure very few of the devout readership of the Harry Potter series are wizards or other magically inclined persons, but they buy and read them nonetheless. How important is it to share the characteristics of the protagonist or narrator? I enjoy Lolita although I am not a pedophile and if anything have an aversion to children (messy and whiny cretins that they are), I can read Jane Eyre and enjoy it despite my lack of female accouterments. There are bestsellers about blind kids and autistic kids and black folks and Asian-Americans and all sorts of minority demographics which the overall market for literature devour, with that "minority voice" being consider a testament to the literary value of the work. So why isn't it the same for queer literature? I confess that even I am not frequently moved by it, unremoved as I am, unless it is an otherwise moving narrative, such as Baldwin's Giovanni's Room. Homosexuality is a unique struggle, I think, and should make for compelling literature, but yet it is hard to portray. Unlike race, gender, ethnicity, it is a very internalized characteristic, which can't be seen with the eyes at all (without a high percent of false-positives, anyway!). It is a matter of the heart, a matter of desire. A novel can be written with a black protagonist and they can desire anything: success, love, freedom, etc. - anything. But for a novel to be a gay novel that particular sexual desire is prone to the foreground, as in the present novel, as in Giovanni's Room et cetera. Perhaps the best portrayal of homosexuality is The Great Gatsby, wherein I would contend that Nick Carraway is gay - something alluded to indirectly if not obtusely throughout the novel, but far from canonically agreed upon. But even Fitzgerald's ambiguous narrator fails to address the particular queer experience, and as such appeals to a wider audience. Is it that the queer experience is too different, or is it that it is not different enough? Perhaps it has the sense of being self-indulgent? I am not sure. How can anyone be sure how their plight relates to anyone else's? Perhaps literature helps, but certainly no one's struggle, real or fictional, is exactly the same.And maybe it is for that reason that queer novels fail, as they do? I don't feel that Fitzgerald (or Melville, or Twain, or Lee, or whomever wrote what is considered the top contender) meant to write the "Great American Novel" when he wrote The Great Gatsby (or Moby-Dick, Huckleberry Finn, etc.) - he wrote the story of Jay Gatsby, of Nick Carraway et al. That book, which is a compressed carbuncle of the human condition of one man, is one which appeals to many individuals, Americans etc., because we can see in another's struggle a glimmer of our own individual struggle. Same in Jane Eyre, we see not an orphan struggling a very specific struggle, but rather an individual struggling against the every extrapolating problem of life. I think it is perhaps the problem of the "Gay novel" that it tries to extrapolate itself, it is not internalized and it is not specific, it aims from the starting point to be universal to a small subsection of the population. It tries to generalize the struggle of gay men (or women, which is not the case in Maurice), and so loses its individual power. Search for identity, for love, for acceptance, etc. are all universal struggles, even for the most "normal" of individuals. While the goal of literature may be to make the particular universal, it is only implicitly done. It is impossible to make the universal particular.The plight of Maurice is both particular and generalized, and so maybe it is a half-failure or a half-victory. Maurice's struggles are particular to him: the dynamic between he and Clive in particular is very much the friction between two individuals, the family pressure for Maurice to become the glittering replacement of his father in all ways is a problem unique to his family dynamic and the characters of his mother and sisters. But his desires and feelings of alienation seem general, his fear of social rebuff seems general, roving, imprecise. His initial self-loathing does not seem to be informed, it is confused, misguided, it is not quite a religious affectation nor a societal concern, but a sort of fear of self. This first apprehension to the idea of his love for Clive is believable, sympathetic, sincere. But this phase lacks resolution - Clive goes away and comes back changed, whether sincerely or insincerely as a matter of course. Maurice pines for him, hates him, resents him, but ultimately his feelings for him are essentially the same at the heart of the matter, a sort of kinship. But a lost fellowship. Maurice's drive is not for love but rather for companionship. This is by no means particular to the homosexual struggle, but poignant nonetheless. Where the story begins to falter is the introduction of Scudder. The reader must suspend his disbelief and take that love-in-a-glance kind of love for granted. The character of Scudder is scarcely fleshed out, and the reasons for Maurice's attraction seem to be vague at best. The issue of gay-love becomes highly generalized. We have Maurice, who although fully fleshed out in character, his motives with Scudder seem to me to be missing. Scudder on the other hand is almost a stock character, poorly characterized, maybe some form of Forster's ideal, which he imbues into Maurice's affections. Whether their attraction is mutual loneliness or true love is left unclear, there is little or no rhetoric of love, there are few bases for attraction beyond the physical. Yet we are left to believe in their mutual happiness, their rebirth and acceptance of each other: washed clean of their sins and histories, their prejudices and prides. His ideal of marriage was temperate and graceful, like all his ideals, and he found a fit helpmate in Anne, who had refinement herself, and admired it in others. They loved each other tenderly. Beautiful conventions received them — while beyond the barrier Maurice wandered, the wrong words on his lips and the wrong desires in his heart, and his arms full of air. Perhaps this is ultimately the point which Forster wants to make? Is Maurice's 'arms full of air' any worse than the marriage of convention and convenience achieved by Anna and Clive? Is it better? While Maurice is borne away on a seemingly generalized happy ending devoid of individual passions, Clive enjoys (or suffers) the same general fate. Is Maurice happy at the book's resolution-- truly happy? Or satisfied? And what of Clive? Have Clive's passions truly inverted during his trip to the Mediterranean? While we are meant to believe that Maurice and Scudder have found in each other a lasting love and companionship, happiness, it is rather the passions between Maurice and Clive which endure in the reader after completing the novel. It seems at one and the same time that the story of Maurice is both too long and too short. Too long to be the story of Maurice and Clive, too short to be the story of Maurice and Scudder. And so I am doubly dissatisfied. That said it is a wonderful novel: where it shines it truly is a wonder of literary craft, but where the brush is dropped there are prominent smears which disfigure the art.
2676442479	4 StarsI’m not well versed in historic stories of the British upper class, but I’m happy to say that despite the fear, despite having to hide, Maurice finds love, grabs on, and refuses to let go.Though published posthumously, all the stars for having been written at all in a time of blatant unacceptance.
1444350037	Sublime. Oh my God, I won't forget this book. Maurice and Alec forever.Off I go to read more E.M. Forster, though I know this was his only homosexual themed book in his esteemed career and the book was published after his death, as he'd requested to his friends, knowing the storm it would create in proper English Society.It's a great work. I am humbled before it as a writer.By the way, the author's terminal note of 1960, on homosexuality, was so brutally true and broke my heart.Yes, Maurice may get away, but Alec will always be scorned upon by the Clives of the world...
2947388673	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |3.5 stars (rounded up) “No tradition overawed the boys. No convention settled what was poetic, what absurd. They were concerned with a passion that few English minds have admitted, and so created untrammelled. Something of exquisite beauty arose in the mind of each at last, something unforgettable and eternal, but built of the humblest scraps of speech and from the simplest emotions.”There is much to be admired in E.M. Forster's Maurice. While it saddening to think that although he wrote Maurice in the 1910s he was unable to publish the novel during his lifetime, Forster did at least share it with some of his closest friends. Maurice follows the titular character of Maurice Hall from boyhood to adulthood. In the opening chapter a teacher, knowing that Maurice's father was dead, feels the need to educate him on sex. Maurice however doesn't find this conversation enlightening, if anything it cements his aversion towards women and marriage. It is perhaps this incident that makes Maurice begin to question his sexuality. Although he never does so explicitly, his otherwise privileged existence is marred by self-questioning and doubt. Throughout the narrative Forster depicts the way in which homosexuality was regarded in the early 20th century: Maurice himself doesn't know what to make of his desire towards other men. The country's general attitude towards “unspeakables of the Oscar Wilde sort” range from pure denial, so they will dismiss homosexuality as “nonsense”, or “condemn it as being the worst crime in the calendar”. At university Maurice becomes acquainted with Clive Durham. Clive, unlike Maurice, is a scholar, and lover, of ancient Greek philosopher and is apt to quote their teachings. While Maurice is simply enamoured with Clive, Clive wishes to attain a higher form of 'love' (“love passionate but temperate, such as only finer natures can understand,”) and believes that by being with Maurice their “two imperfect souls might touch perfection”. Unlike Maurice, Clive finds the idea of their becoming physical intimate to be distasteful, implying that it would spoil their relationship.When the two are no longer at university together the two no longer have many opportunities to spend time together. their physical in their relationship, Clive insists on adhering to his ideal of love. Later on, Maurice finds himself pursuing a relationship with Alec, Clive's gamekeeper.The first half of the novel brought to mind Brideshead Revisited. This is quite likely to the university setting and the various hierarchies there are at play there. Both Maurice and Clive come from wealthy families. They are fairly pretentious, prone to make snobbish remarks, and are fairly misogynistic. Forster himself points out all of their flaws and is unafraid of poking gentle fun at them. Because of this I felt less disinclined towards them, even if I didn't strictly like them.This isn't a particularly happy novel. There is bigotry, self-loathing, heartbreak, and suicidal contemplation. At one point Maurice is diagnosed with 'congenital homosexuality' and even attempts to 'cure' himself by way of a hypnotist. Yet, Forster's prose is full of beauty. There are plenty of stunning passages in which he discusses and contrasts romantic and platonic love (Clive/Apollonian vs. Maurice/Dionysian), physical and intellectual desire, or where he describes beautiful landscapes. Forster adds a poetic touch to negative emotions such anguish and despair, so that even when his narrative never really succumbs to the darkness experienced by Maurice and his moments of introspection carry definite beauty.Perhaps the thing that kept from loving this as much as Forster's A Room with a View is the lack of chemistry...Alec appears towards the end and in no time Maurice seems in love with him. Alec's personality is somewhat reduced to his being of a lower class. Still, while Maurice may not join what I consider to be the holy trinity of classic LGBT literature (for those who are wondering: The Charioteer, Giovanni's Room, and The Price of Salt/Carol) I still think that it is a brave and illuminating novel (Forster's afterword alone is worth reading).Read more reviews on my blog / / / View all my reviews on Goodreads
4036188393	I just read this for school and I’m actually quite embarrassed to say it took a requirement for me to get around to picking this up. I’m in my final year studying English and this is quite easily one of the most beautiful pieces of fiction I’ve read. What’s crazy to me is that this book is actually critiqued quite often for the quality of the writing. While critics admire the themes, the prose is often picked apart. I find that crazy. The writing isn’t overly flowery, but it has immense depth. Every word is intentional, and every other line could be used as the main piece of evidence in an essay discussing the novel’s themes. Some thoughts to chew on:“But he knew now that there is no secret of humanity which, from a wrong angle, orthodoxy has not viewed""Why don't you stop being shocked and attend to your own happiness""Fate had placed a snare in his hands and he meant to set it""After all, a real Hell is better than a manufactured Heaven""There has been, is, and always will be every conceivable type of person""At times he entertained the dream. Two men can defy the world""You've spoken straight - perhaps some day I shall too. I know I'd like to."
1173982798	2022 update:I appreciate this novel more on this reading, fresh from experiencing the story from the gamekeeper's point of view in Alec, and also fortified with insights from Forster himself in his Terminal Note in Maurice, written in 1960. Forster credits Edward Carpenter for his contributions; I looked into his life as well. All of this to say that these sources were bubbling in the background as I read Maurice.It no longer reads to me as something unfinished or unpolished. Forster says "the book certainly dates" but that is part of its appeal, being so firmly rooted in the early 1910s when so much of life, seemingly permanent, was to be swept away by world events.2015 review:When I originally read this I felt frustrated by the restraint, in the text and especially in the relationship between Clive and Maurice. This time around, blessed with a little more of what I like to call life experience, I appreciated the book more. It is a kind of historical document, a glimpse of a way of life which was soon to be changed by World War I.I wonder what this book would have been like if Forster had felt that it could be published and he worked on it more seriously with the help of an editor, and had otherwise treated it just like one of his other books. Instead, what we are left with is a glimpse of what might have been.
3640838042	I had this book on hold at the library for months and months, and was already very charmed with the novel prior to reading it. So when I finally read it I was very glad it was elegant in prose, character study, and conversation. I was constantly writing down quotes from the novel as to not forget them, and once when I couldn't find paper I just wrote on my bookmark; there were so many charming phrases and ideas that I instantly felt I'd have to read it again and even own a copy to open up to read anytime I desired. It was a very interesting book, one that was sorrowful at times but ultimately E.M. Forster refused to subscribe to the trope that has become commonly known as 'Bury Your Gays' and ended with notes of hope and joy. I must admit I felt it lacked in making the reader fall in absolute love with the character's as I'd hoped it would (although I was rather fond of Clive and felt sorry for the sad fate of his rushed marriage that most likely stemmed from his internalized homophobia) Despite this it most definitely has proven to be a (queer) classic, and I cannot wait to watch the film.
4718667928	De niño pasaba los veranos con mis abuelos en la playa. Eran más flexibles que mis padres y nunca nos ponían hora para acostarnos, así que siempre aguantábamos despiertos hasta que sonaba el himno en la tele —sí, antes sonaba al terminar la emisión y salía una foto de Franco. Recuerdo, sin embargo, que muchas veces mi abuelo se iba a dormir a media película. “Bah, termina mal”, decía. No la había visto, claro, pero sabía que en las películas de esa época el indio nunca ganaba al vaquero, el ladrón nunca se llevaba el botín, y cualquier amor que se saliera de la norma, cualquier deseo fuera del guion, acababa mal, siempre mal.Me vino a la cabeza mi abuelo al leer la historia de Maurice Hall. Nunca tuve oportunidad de hacerlo, pero hubiera querido preguntarle si creía que a principios del siglo XX dos hombres que se amaban podían tener un final feliz sin que “un muchacho terminara colgado de un nudo corredizo o con un pacto de suicidio”, como recuerda Forster en su nota final de 1960 al manuscrito inédito.¿Y tú? ¿Alguna vez te has preguntado qué hubiera pasado si la literatura inglesa hubiera permitido que el amor entre hombres tuviera finales felices en plena era eduardiana?Maurice no es solo un experimento de imaginación histórica: es la respuesta silenciosa que E. M. Forster se atrevió a escribir a escondidas. “Comenzada en 1913, terminada en 1914, y dedicada a Tiempos Mejores”, nos dice en la introducción. Sí. Durante décadas, esta novela permaneció guardada como un secreto incómodo, hasta que su publicación póstuma en 1971 le dio a Maurice Hall la oportunidad de existir en un mundo literario que aún dudaba de la legitimidad de sus sentimientos. Ahí radica su primer golpe: la novela nos pregunta, desde la primera página, si la felicidad de un hombre puede ser algo más que una concesión imposible en una sociedad rígida y clasista.La historia sigue a Maurice desde su adolescencia en un internado inglés hasta la madurez, trazando la evolución de su identidad, sus afectos y su posición en un mundo que castiga lo que no entiende. Forster no necesita recurrir a grandes giros dramáticos ni artificios narrativos; la trama fluye con naturalidad, casi con la torpeza y la intensidad de la vida misma. La prosa es elegante sin ostentación, cuidada pero nunca fría, capaz de convertir una conversación de té en un campo minado de emociones, de clasismo y deseo contenido. La nota final escrita en 1960, décadas después de completar la novela, no es solo un epílogo: es el gesto de un autor que reivindica la necesidad de un final feliz, consciente de que su tiempo lo habría condenado a lo contrario.Maurice, Clive y Alec forman un triángulo que funciona como espejo social y emocional, pero no uno simple ni predecible. Maurice es torpe y honesto, inseguro pero con una determinación que surge de su necesidad de ser él mismo; Clive es elegante, intelectual y dolorosamente consciente de los límites que la sociedad impone sobre su deseo, y por eso su represión se siente casi virtuosa, como si el autocontrol fuera un mérito más que un lastre. Alec, en cambio, es complicado: directo, afectuoso y aparentemente sincero, pero ambiguo. Forster siembra la duda, y por momentos el lector —igual que Maurice— puede preguntarse si no hay algo de interés o manipulación en su actitud. Cada movimiento de los tres refleja la tensión entre clase, deseo y moralidad: Maurice navega entre las apariencias y sus impulsos; Clive se somete a la cortesía y al miedo; Alec oscila entre claridad y misterio, dejando que la posibilidad de afecto verdadero conviva con la incertidumbre de lo que significa confiar.Pero, más allá de sus decisiones amorosas, lo fascinante de Maurice Hall es cómo cada tropiezo y cada miedo se van convirtiendo en conocimiento de sí mismo. La novela registra con paciencia su aprendizaje emocional y moral: cómo afronta el deseo, la culpa y las normas impuestas, y cómo poco a poco se atreve a reconocerse y a reclamar un lugar en el mundo que le pertenece por derecho propio. Esa evolución íntima, más que el desenlace, es lo que deja una marca duradera en el lector.Porque Maurice debe moverse en ese contexto —un mundo regido por jerarquías sociales y normas rígidas—, aunque no como alguien al margen, sino como un insider que conoce las reglas y privilegios de su posición. Desde las aulas de Cambridge hasta los salones de la aristocracia, Forster nos muestra cómo cada gesto, saludo medido y conversación cuidadosamente educada está cargado de expectativas que limitan los afectos. La hipocresía no es un error de otros; es parte del decorado social. Maurice, con todos sus recursos, aprende a moverse en él, identificando dónde las apariencias pueden sofocar lo que siente y calibrando sus pasos sin perder la dignidad.Y en medio de esa rigidez, se filtra una ironía sutil, casi invisible, que Forster deja entrever como quien apunta con un dedo sin señalarnos demasiado. No pretende divertir ni aligerar la intensidad de la historia; lo que busca es que percibamos la tensión entre deseo y normas, que veamos lo absurdo y sofocante que puede ser ese mundo para los afectos verdaderos. Es una ironía que no rompe la gravedad de la historia, sino que la ilumina con precisión, mostrando la maquinaria social que oprime incluso a quienes, como Maurice, parecen moverse con facilidad dentro de ella.Pero Maurice no es solo un testimonio de su tiempo: es una piedra de toque en la literatura queer, aunque su publicación tardía lo mantuviera escondido durante décadas. Aun así, sus páginas resuenan con lo que escritores como Isherwood o incluso Hollinghurst abordarían más tarde, y recuerdan silenciosamente a la sutileza de Virginia Woolf en Orlando. Forster escribe contra las normas de su época con discreción y audacia, y lo que coloca sobre la mesa —el deseo, la represión, la búsqueda de autenticidad— se convierte en un espejo para la literatura queer que florecería décadas después. Maurice muestra que se puede narrar la vida de hombres que aman a hombres con sinceridad, sin concesiones, y sin depender de que el mundo esté preparado para ello.Al cerrar Maurice, uno se da cuenta de que está frente a una novela que pertenece a otro tiempo y, aun así, sigue viva. Sí, hay detalles que hoy nos parecen anticuados: la forma de hablar, los códigos de cortesía, el clasismo, los códigos morales, la manera en que los personajes miden cada gesto. Pero eso no resta nada; al contrario, te mete en la cabeza de alguien que debe aprender a vivir y amar dentro de esas reglas, y te hace sentir lo que significa desear con prudencia. Forster no escribió para agradar ni para ser aceptado, ni tan solo para publicar. Escribió Maurice para sí mismo, porque lo necesitaba; y lo hizo con honestidad, cuidado y valentía. “El final feliz era imperativo —nos dice el autor en la nota final escrita en 1960, cuando decidió que esos ‘Tiempos mejores’ aún no habían llegado y se negó a publicarla—. De otro modo, no me hubiese molestado en escribirla. Estaba decidido a que por lo menos en una obra de ficción dos hombres se enamorasen y permaneciesen unidos en ese ‘para siempre’ que la ficción permite”.Por eso, más de un siglo después, aunque nos resulte anticuada, Maurice sigue siendo necesaria: muestra lo que se podía sentir y pensar cuando no se podía decir, y lo hace de un modo que sigue vivo, enseñándonos que el afecto, la integridad y la búsqueda de uno mismo pueden superar cualquier época.Y al terminar la novela, no pude evitar pensar de nuevo en mi abuelo, en sus críticas a las películas que “terminaban mal”. Me habría gustado explicarle que, esta vez, el final no era trágico; que Maurice Hall podía ser feliz, incluso en un mundo que no lo esperaba. Y quizá él lo entendería, con ese gesto de desaprobación divertida que siempre le acompañaba, reconociendo que algunas historias tardan décadas en alcanzar ese ‘para siempre’ que la ficción, por fin, nos permite.
1057518649	2,5 stars.Written in 1913 Maurice could have made a history if the author had had the courage to publish it at that time. A story of a homosexual upper middle class Britain set in the early 20th Century! (view spoiler)[ And then a bizarre HEA! (hide spoiler)] With his idea and the main message - the acceptance of a human nature - E.M.Forster was for sure ahead of the times. Unfortunately 100 years later it didn't exert the greatest impression on me. Along with the main characters that I didn't fond of too much, to my problems belonged the old-fashioned language and very clinical and emotionless writing style. I would have probably never managed to finish this book if I wasn't convinced by my friend Irina to put the book on hold and watch the movie. I followed her advice and really enjoyed it.Having been armed with proper visuals I gave the book a second chance. And I'm glad I did it. The story became more emotional, entertaining and more compelling toward the end. But something important, something essential, that makes a book to a personal event, that makes a book attractive and interesting for me was still missing. I wish, I could say that I enormously enjoyed it but, sorry, I didn't. Confusing at times and lacking in eroticism and passion - I just wasn't feeling it. For me it had more a kind of educational character, a historical document.But I would highly recommend you the movie.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4583905357	42nd book of 2022A beautiful novel in every way. Four stars.
3465289914	I hadn't read any of E.M. Forster's 6 novels. The main reason is that I've seen the film adaptations of the 5 that have been filmed - and my understanding has been that they were all rather faithful to their source material. (Something of a flimsy excuse but there you have it.) I find that, if I see a well-made film that adheres rather closely to a book I haven't read, getting around to reading the book after the fact (instead of before) can be a bit tedious. The element of surprise has largely been removed. It only returns if / when you discover that what the author originally wrote only vaguely (or somewhat unsatisfyingly) appeared on-screen - which is true (for example) of the Raymond Chandler / Philip Marlowe series and the Tom Ripley novels by Patricia Highsmith. (The Chandler and Highsmith books are far superior to their adaptations.)Of course, a novel can still include sections that would have made an average-length film too long. But it can also contain extraordinary writing - something so unique to an author that it just can't adequately translate to the big screen, regardless of whether or not the content is to a great extent intact. 'Maurice' contains extraordinary writing - much of which is not (and couldn't really successfully be) in James Ivory's marvelous and visually stunning 1987 film version: it's more difficult to film what's essentially internal and hard to express in images or in dialogue. The film, however - precise with the exception of a wisely added segment involving the arrest of a minor character on a charge of homosexuality - takes the through-line of the novel's action and crystallizes it for a modern audience. The adaptation emerges as being completely accessible. Completed as it was in 1914, the novel may be seen to a degree as being not quite as accessible. It took me a chapter or two before I began to feel pulled in. That may, in part, be due to Forster's particular use of language - which can take a little getting used to since it can lean a bit toward being overly cerebral. But it can also sneak up on you and build with an undeniable power. That was my experience with 'Maurice'; it develops remarkable propulsion (or can I, in this case, say thrust?). So, even if you have seen the film, the novel remains exciting... and occasionally seductive.Once Forster wrote 'Maurice', he put it away - without attempting to publish it. He did show it quietly to select friends but, as he writes in his 'Terminal Note', he was aware that the book's (wonderfully) happy ending could have possibly landed him in jail. In England, homosexuality was a crime until 1967; 'Maurice' was published posthumously in 1971.Among the select few who read Forster's manuscript was D.H. Lawrence - who would eventually publish his equally 'scandalous' 'Lady Chatterley's Lover' in 1928. Lawrence clearly took to Forster's gamekeeper character Scudder because Scudder takes on new life in his lady's lover Mellors. ...To be honest, though... with his certain 'je ne sais quoi', Scudder may be sexier.
1231668737	Oh, the mellifluous, soothing voice of Forster! I don’t know what it is, but something just kicks into place in my innermost recesses when I read his best novels. Stephen King has said that it’s the writers we read when we are young who impact us the most, perhaps in ways we don’t always realize. That may be why it’s more than just a reading experience to me when I read Forster; I feel that I meet not only my younger self but my true self when I read him. Maurice is the novel Forster wrote some 55 years before it was published because the time he lived in was one of hypocrisy and intolerance. Indeed, Maurice, the main character, refers to himself a couple of times as one of the unmentionable Oscar Wilde types, and we know what happened to Oscar Wilde only a decade or so previously. Forster had a view which there was no room for, cf. the title of another of his novels, and only a few of his closest friends saw the novel in his own lifetime.The novel is about Maurice’s seemingly impossible search for happiness in a world where homosexuality is illegal and in an England which is still marred by a rigid view of class distinctions. It is a brave attempt to paint a possible utopia which, sadly, Forster himself never lived to see, and it is a touching portrait of two people’s ultimate refusal to bow to the expectations of the times, as well as one man’s claim to have been able to change his sexuality. Like Zadie Smith, I can see that Forster sometimes borders on the mawkish and the sentimental, but like Smith, I really don’t care. His works remind me that it is possible to write feelingly and touchingly about human relations within the relatively narrow confines of literary fiction. All of Forster’s works are about his humanistic vision, and wish, that we ‘only connect’. I am unapologetic in my love of Forster, and I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.
3101280916	3.5 stars - I think the part of this I most enjoyed of this book was the window into the social moires around gay love in the early 1900s that it provided as a type of primary source documentation. As a novel, I felt the motion of the story was a bit herky jerky (in a way I didn't experience with the previous 2 books I read from him?), so that dinged down my overall enjoyment of it as a book. That said, I'm so glad I read this, as I was so invested in poor sweet Maurice finding his way in a world that doesn't have room for him... in that respect, I was so glad that the story ended the way it did. I loved the "terminal note," as well, as it gave even more insight into Forster's artistic vision
5255119569	Kameralna, bardzo prywatna i w pewnie sposób chwytająca za serce.
5186082421	WOW, what a beauty of a book. It tackles everything a homosexual english-mans would've gone through in the early 90s. A story of Discovery, Denial, Exploration, Fear, Guilt, Repent, Failure, anger of society and Melancholy acceptance. Foresters writing captures all of this and does do in unique and amazing ways. Not once was any of the characters or overall story over-romanticised in ways that you'd see in modern MLM literature (2022 writers have grown afraid to make poor acting/ unlikeable LGBT+ characters and overcompensate). Maurice is a snobbish prude that can't get his head out of relationships to see his family as people worthy in his life and Clive shows the sad and upsettingly common story of the gay man that will never come to terms with his sexuality thus abusing and leading on the men and women in his life and eventually coming to hate others who can come to terms with themselves. As a reader, you get to see every moment and blunder of Maurice and Clive as they become close in strangely distancing ways but grow apart with scary unison and closeness. These two men symbolise two pathways of how class and male status can differ between each other with only one common thing bringing them together, and with this profound discoveries and meetings you see two different reactions. The delicate way Forester portrays these pathways makes you hate and love them in one way or the other and to be able to make realistic and down to earth characters that are relatable yet detestable should be an art form in its own. There is a profound admiration I had watching Maurice take a pathway of lust and acting with his heart and body whilst we see Clive suffer and banish himself from even the thought he may be different in his society. The overall message of this book is gorgeous and the fact that Forrester himself sat down to write this after having homosexual feelings himself near his time is enough to make me tear up. This is a 100% recommend and I will probably think about this book for the rest of the week.
1853881357	"Begun 1913Finished 1914Dedicated to a Happier Year" excuse me how dare you kill me mild spoiler - (view spoiler)[forster wrote this w/ a happy ending because he thought two men couldn't have a happy ending in real life so he wanted to make sure they could at least in fiction, i am sobbing and deceased (hide spoiler)]
1792213772	Maravilloso..
5676564209	Very avant-garde for it’s era. Overall an easy and quick read & absolutely in love with his writing style!
5148144564	Uno de los libros más hermosos que leí en el año. La nota final del autor me hizo sentir tan llena y feliz, al igual que toda la novela, incluso en sus partes oscuras. E.M Foster, te admiro muchísimo.《Su mente se había aclarado, y tenía la sensación de que los dos estaban contra el mundo entero, de que no sólo el señor Borenius y el campo, sino el público que estaba en las gradas, y toda Inglaterra se hallaban frente a ellos. Jugaron uno para el otro y en honor de su frágil relación: si uno caía, el otro le seguiría. No pretendían causar al mundo daño alguno, pero si eran atacados, debían golpear, debían estar sobre aviso y descargar sus golpes con toda fuerza, debían mostrar que cuando dos se unen, las mayorías no triunfan.》
2108657597	Well, as old English as the writing style is, Maurice is still current and controversial to some readers of certain conservative viewpoints. It’s a coming of age story of a young English gentleman that explores human sexuality as well as class division. Forster wrote this novel in 1913 but forbade its publication until after his death in 1968. Definitely a four star read for me.
3328481856	After all, is not a real Hell better than a manufactured Heaven?This book reminded me a lot of Crush by Richard Siken. They both have gay longing, yearning and most importantly, and perfectly captured, a sense of panic. Physical love means reaction, being panic in essence.Panic is a synonym for being.Our main character is an ordinary man plagued by feelings he can't really explain to himself, he longs for something but isn't sure what it is, until his eyes are opened and for the first time in his life he experiences something akin to happiness. But his happiness is abruptly taken away and he finds himself lost once more, longing and afraid.Maurice was written in 1913 but not published until after E.M. Forster's death in 1971. It feels like a sad story, but it is a happy one at it's core. The book is dedicated To a Happier Year and, in a way, we do live in that happier year now. Maurice would not have to face the same kind of uncertainties and the same kind of fear nowadays. But our reality is still far from perfect. Maurice might not have been shunned by society but probably still by church and individuals who are still as loud as ever. He might still have considered suicide. In some parts of the world he would still have to be afraid of conversion therapy or even death. This book might have been written over a hundred years ago but, except for some details, it reads like a contemporary. It is an important book. It manages to do what even nowadays is rare: it gives a happy ending to a gay couple. It may be a pioneer in this regard and I love it for that.A happy ending was imperative. I shouldn't have bothered to write otherwise. I was determined that in fiction anyway two men should fall in love and remain in it for the ever and ever that fiction allows. - E. M. Forster
2808504026	interesting story in that, whilst reading, it didnt quite impact me as strongly as i thought it would. it was only after i had put the book down, stepped away, and really thought about it, that i had become quite emotional. the highlight is definitely maurices journey towards self-acceptance. what an amazing thing that a topic written in 1913 still applies today. we all have a way to go before we accept ourselves fully, so what a pleasure it was to experience it with maurice. i will definitely be picking this up again after i have had a couple of days to think about it some more. i have a sneaky suspicion i will want to bump this up to 5 stars. ↠ 4 stars
4774604038	** spoiler alert ** First read: July 31st - august 2nd 2022 Second read: march 31st 2023 - April 2 2023Third read: June 2nd - June 26th2024 edit: No importa cuántas veces lo diga o lo exprese, nadie sentirá nunca la manera en que me cambió este libro a los 14 años. Si bien no me parezco en nada a la personalidad de Maurice, todo su viaje de autodescubrimiento, los anhelos acallados, el sueño de un amigo y su idealización de Clive, me hacen pensar bastante en mí. Creo que desde siempre o desde entonces he tenido el mismo problema innato que él, but I won’t start yapping sobre mis propias introspecciones en Goodreads—no ahora que se hallan tan frescas, al menos. Nótese tan solo que por culpa de este libro empezó mi delirio de ser un tipo de 1910 y vestir de traje, esperando conseguir un amigo muy cercano que encarne ese sueño que es algo más.2023 edit: Rereading this knowing what happens made me love the ending even more. Not what I expected the first time, but definitely what the story needed. I love both characters so much.Former comments:I’ve only read one book in this month of August (I think it’s the less I’ve read per month in a lot of time), though I don’t regret it, actually, because it was Maurice by E. M. Forster.I’m not a fan of classic books, I always get bored or end up hating their old beliefs, but Maurice has become one of my favorite books of all times fr.I just can’t stop thinking about it, even almost a month after. It was just SO GOOD and HEARTBREAKING (I was crying since the dedication, guess how that ended), not only for the story but also by its context.E. M. Forster wrote Maurice between 1913 and 1914, but it wasn’t published until 1971, a year after his death. (It was still controversial in those times).Just imagine living your whole life expecting your country to FINALLY allow you to love whoever you want, and only do it “legally” for 2 years.I’m crying again.LGBTQ+ history is so tragic, I hate everything.But, well, even with all of this and society being shit, Maurice managed to have a happy ending.Probably (obviously) not the happy ending you expect from the beginning, but still happy for two men who fall in love in the 1910s and manage to end up together.Though it’s bittersweet, on the other part, I’ll fight whoever the hell tells me it’s not happy.Like.I’m still crying. One of those last dialogues from the ending and the last lines literally broke me, but Maurice and HIM are happy together and I love them, so stfu, it’s a happy ending.So the only thing I hated was the misogyny in a lot of parts of the beginning and the way he treated his mother and sisters.Anyway, I don’t trust people who gave this less than 4 stars.I need a physical copy of this book in my hands, and I’ll break bones to get it.I mean.If you read/watched Maurice without getting completely obsessed about it, did you really read/watched Maurice?I just remembered that I have two playlists for this book, and one of them is 6 hours long…Idc.I told queen Taylor Swift about this book and the next day illicit affairs was out.I’m a changed person now.
1688711743	Me ha parecido un libro extraordinario, de esos que no se olvidan y que merece con el tiempo una o varias reelecturas.
1554008383	rep: gay mc, gay side charactersanyway, forster is my gay hero
3461484739	Not my favorite style of writing but definitely worth the time. Because it was ahead of its time: a gay love (LOVE!!) story with (wait for it) a happy ending.
63104462	forster indulges in a fantasy romance with a hunky gardner. eh. the writing is pretty though.
6084447715	TW: suicidal thoughtsI’ve been meaning to read this book since I watched the movie adaptation in 1987.I don’t know what triggered my desired to read this work now, but I was suddenly desperately seeking for a copy within my books, certain that I owned one. As I couldn’t find, I tried ordering a copy from the library but there was a 4 weeks waiting period. At the end I purchased a copy from Kobo, as well as the audiobook narrated by Ben Whishaw, available on Audible.I listened to the audiobook as I read the book. The narration is formidable! One of those voices that you love listening at normal speed. It made my experience extraordinary! As I read each page, scenes from the movie would clearly appear in front of my eyes, as if I had watched the movie adaptation just yesterday.I immensely enjoyed the writing, which I thought was very easy and clear.I also liked the structure and the development of the storyline.The story is set in England, starting in 1898, when Maurice was 14 years old (in the movie he was 11).The main character is not very likeable, but he is shown as being very human and believable. Maurice’s & Clive’s struggles with theirs sexuality were quite touching (the young generation has no idea how fortunate they are now).Differences in social status were also evident among the characters.I praised the author for writing a story based on his own struggles and experiences, and also for not making the story about sex. This book is free of vulgarities.I wonder how this book would have been taken by the society, had it been released back in 1914, instead of 1971.Some readers may be upset about the treatment towards women, but you have to remember when the story is set (only selected women of 30 years old or older were allowed to vote in England starting in 1918, and 10 years later women of at least 21 years of age were finally able to vote).Yes, society was cruel to women and homosexuals were treated as criminals There are differences between the novel and the movie adaptation, and these differences are listed in Wikipedia. Nothing major in my opinion, but the book is definitely better.e-book (Kobo): 242 pages (default), 62k wordsAudiobook narrated by Ben Whishaw: 7:28:17 hours (normal speed)Paperback (Penguin Books): 272 pages
296864273	Who knew you could write a boring book about unrequited gay love in the Edwardian period? Somehow E.M. Forster managed to do so. There was no passion in this book, and indeed the love affair of two of the main characters was apparently chaste apart from the occasional kiss on the cheek, a state of affairs that stretched my credulity. And all the class snobbery throughout the book was a bit hard to take as well. I could never manage any sympathy at all for the protagonist, even though a story of a closeted "introvert" written in 1913 *should* have been fascinating.
3463237605	Este libro sea probablemente el libro que más emociones me ha hecho sentir nunca. Es una historia que terminé hace más de 24 horas, pero que no me ha abandonado y que creo que va a permanecer conmigo a lo largo de mucho, mucho tiempo. Probablemente esta vaya a ser la reseña que más me cueste escribir, del mismo modo que es el libro del que más me ha costado formar mi opinión final. ¿Me ha gustado? ¿Lo he detestado? Es un libro al que podría dar 5 estrellas o 1 estrella por lo destrozada que me ha dejado y lo mucho que me ha descompuesto. Quiero culpar de mi terrible sufrimiento a las ideas preconcebidas que tenía en la cabeza sobre este libro, imaginando por muchas razones (el hecho de que en la primera nota del texto el autor dijera que quería dar un final feliz a sus protagonistas, todas las sinopsis que leía, las fotos de la peli) que iba a tener un determinado final, y al leer el libro estaba disfrutándolo muchísimo pensando que tenía asegurado cierto final, pero cuando poco a poco esa imagen iba haciéndose más borrosa y yo me negaba a aceptarla, de modo que E M Forster me iba golpeando cada vez más, cegando en cierto modo la visión que él quería dar a la historia. Si hubiera ido con otras ideas, estoy segura de que habría sufrido, pero no del mismo modo que lo he hecho.Creo que no he interpretado este libro como Forster planeaba al escribirlo y como muchos lectores lo hacen, quedando encantados con ese final y condenando a ciertos personajes... Pero creo que en parte esa es la magia de los libros, cómo nadie leerá nunca el mismo libro aunque esté leyendo las mismas palabras y el mismo texto. También ayuda a mi libre interpretación el hecho de que el autor tiene un estilo tan sutil, poético, simbólico y ambiguo, al que tienes que sacar tu misma en algunas ocasiones una explicación o el significado que tú sientas que tiene.Es difícil hablar de mis impresiones de este libro sin hacer spoiler, por lo que no voy a entrar en detalles, simplemente hablaré sin dar nombres ni adelantar nada como me he sentido.Para quien no lo sepa, "Maurice" es la historia de un joven inglés de clase alta que siempre se ha sentido diferente: nunca ha pensado en el matrimonio, nunca ha sentido la atracción que un hombre supuestamente debe sentir hacia una mujer, se ha sentido de forma muy curiosa con ciertos muchachos de su entorno... y es, básicamente en Cambridge mientras está estudiando y empieza una peculiar amistad con Clive, que descubre que es gay. Digamos que va sobre un hombre que en un momento de la historia donde la homosexuliadad era ilegal, condenada y mal vista, debe aprender a aceptarse, quererse, a deconstruirse y poco a poco a ir desligándose de esa idea que le habían metido en la cabeza de su condición humana. No será fácil el proceso de deconstrucción de Maurice, ya que se verá en las profundidades del infierno viendo como la homofobia imperante de su sociedad consigue vencer en algunas ocasiones.Este libro tiene personajes muy, muy, muy complejos. Son personajes poco convencionales, muy arriesgados pero sublimes.Maurice es un ser muy reprobable en algunas ocasiones: es misógino, es antipático, snob, vanidoso, elitista... pero aún así tiene una profundidad, una evolución, unos sentimientos tan reales que el autor te transmite tan bien que, recordándote en todo momento sus defectos, consigue que empatices, sientas y entiendas al personaje en todo momento. Como digo, la evolución del personaje de Maurice es impresionante. No es en subida todo el rato, ya que vemos que tiene muchos altibajos, como todo el mundo tiene, pero su desordenado y paulatino proceso lo hace muy memorable.En cuanto a los demás personajes, voy a hablar de ellos sin decir sus nombres porque no quiero dar pistas. Hay un personaje que he llegado a la conclusión de que es el motivo de que mi corazón se haya roto en tantos pedazos. Considero que es un personaje, de nuevo, complejísimo: tiene una construcción que a mí me pareció poco coherente en su momento, pero una vez lo he meditado me parece muy real, aunque desgarradora. Básicamente es un personaje al que la sociedad consigue arrastrar, al que esas convenciones, ese odio, todo lo que él en un principio renunciaba termina manipulándolo y haciéndole creer algo que realmente no es. Claro, este es el personaje al que yo doy un poco libremente mi interpretación, que considero como una víctima de su sociedad y que no es culpable sino el personaje más malparado de todo el libro. Creo que esta novela me hubiera dolido menos si el personaje hubiera muerto que ese cambio radical que tiene, que me hizo odiar a Forster por darme semejante decepción.Luego tenemos otro personaje que a mí personalmente no me ha gustado ni disgustado; me parece que es el más desdibujado de todos. Creo que lo que representa es bonito, que es un punto de inflexión en ciertas cosas y me gusta también el punto de evolución que tiene, pero no me convence en algunas cosas. No tanto el personaje en sí, ni tampoco me refiero a su función en la novela, sino cómo se dan ciertas cosas.En otro orden de cosas, es necesario hablar de la belleza con que está escrita esta historia. Yo me había enamorado de la narración de Forster en "Howards End", pero creo que en este libro lo lleva a otro nivel. Es preciosa la sencillez que tiene para construir frases tan profundas, tan íntimas, tan llenas de significados. Y aunque no me parezca un autor denso, tampoco me parece un autor ligero. Todo lo que escribe esconde tantas cosas que a simple vista no se perciben, todo está tan bien escrito que te paras en cada frase para saborear esa delicioso paraje, lo subrallas lo relees... Juega muchísimo con el simbolismo y las metáforas, como por ejemplo refiriéndose a Maurice cuando está dentro del armario y ni él mismo lo sabe, como en una oscuridad que en algunos momentos es más calma, en otras confusa, en la que otras veces empieza a palpar alrededor a ver qué encuentra... Y como esta muchas.En cuanto a los temas que trata, la infinidad de temas que trata en 200 páginas... Son todos tan profundos, tan bien presentados, tan bien reflexionados pero a la vez llenos de matices: la sexualidad, el amor platónico, el amor, la amistad, la familia, la homofobia, la sociedad, los prejuicios, los referentes, las injusticias, la naturaleza humana, la presión social, las convenciones sociales, el autodescubrimiento, la autoaceptación, el crecimiento, la superación, el desamor, la esperanza, la lujuria, las decepciones, la confusión, la culpa, la religión, y muchos otros que me resultan imposible abarcar ahora mismo.El libro me ha tomado su tiempo para procesar y aclarar mis emociones. No puedo ni expresar el sentimiento que ha dejado en mí y el encojimiento de mi pecho cuando recuerdo ciertos momentos, su final, lo que pudo haber sido, pero también lo que representa. Como he dicho al principio, nunca antes había experimentado lo que con este libro: ni durante la propia lectura ni en el después. Especialmente en el poso, en la resaca, en estar dándole vueltas y vueltas. Llevo desde que lo empecé hasta ahora, y probablemente hasta unos días más, dedicando cada momento libre de mi pensamiento en analizarlo, recordarlo, lamentarlo, intentar comprenderlo. Y no me veo capaz de coger ningún otro libro, porque mi corazón sigue en las páginas de Maurice, aunque destrozado en ellas.Como digo este libro tiene un final feliz, y para muchos es el perfecto, pero para mí, aunque sea un final feliz, no es el que me hubiera gustado. Si este libro hubiera acabado como yo quería, sería un 5/5 de cabecera y un nuevo favorito, al que recordaría con muchísimo cariño y me calentaría el corazón cada vez que volviera a él; pero sin el final que verdaderamente tiene, aunque admito que si pudiera cambiaría, este libro quizás no me hubiera dejado con todas las reflexiones, el poso, la contradicción y marca que me ha dejado. Porque aunque sea bonito, para mí no deja de ser trágico y crudo, cruel e injusto. Que aunque deja a la esperanza al final del camino, que muestra un crecimiento y desenlace poético y bonito, deja atrás momentos en los que los prejuicios de la sociedad ha ganado y arruinado muchas otras vías. Un libro que me ha implicado tanto, que me ha hecho sentir tantísimo, que me ha dejado tan marcada, que me ha hecho subrallar cada página y que sin duda quiero releer en unos pocos meses (aunque eso suponga volver a romperme) no puede no tener las 5 estrellas, aunque no sean las mismas 5 estrellas que tienen otros libros. Hay muchas novelas que tienen finales tristes y desgarradores que me han dejado un gran poso y sufrimiento (Nuestra señora de París, Lo que el viento se llevó, La edad de la inocencia, La casa de la alegría, Frankenstein) pero cómo este, aunque no sea ni de lejos el más tristre objetivamente, ya os digo yo que ninguno. Ningún libro había llegado a hacerme dudar tanto de mi opinión por su final.No quiero tampoco que todas vayáis con la idea de que os vais a sentir como yo cuando lo leais: algunas quizás no os llegue ni la mitad que a mí, a otras os gustará el camino que coge, a otras no os gustará, o quizás sí que alguien sienta lo mismo que yo. Solo quiero aclarar que ha sido una experiencia muy personal, muy intensa y aunque entiendo completamente este libro como una obra maestra y objetivamente no tiene nada a reprocharle, mi corazoncito apasionado de la lectora que hay en mí desearía que hubiera sido otro el desenlace.Sin duda alguna me quedo con las 100 primeras páginas en cambridge, donde en mi opinión sucede todo lo mejor del libro: la ambientación, las relaciones, los momentos que tengo grabados en la cabeza, pero todo lo que viene después no deja de ser una obra maestra y memorable.
4211306967	Forster dá-nos a conhecer o jovem Maurice Hall, inglês, de boas famílias e com um futuro brilhante pela frente que começa a ser traçado em Cambridge. Na universidade e, de certa forma, livre de repressões, acaba por criar algo mais que uma amizade com Clive Durham, também ele universitário e com uma vida em tudo semelhante à de Maurice. No entanto, enquanto um quer viver livremente o amor, outro já não vê isso com tão bons olhos.Estamos no início do século XX e a homossexualidade é bastante atacada. E também por isso, a relação entre Maurice e Clive sofre uma reviravolta, o que também contribui para que o nosso protagonista se questione se a sua atração pelo sexo masculino será normal, inclusivamente tentando uma espécie de "cura".O autor chega direto ao coração com uma escrita cuidada e belíssima. Tanto Maurice como Clive são personagens intricadas e que dá vontade de conhecer melhor, em especial o protagonista.Foi o meu primeiro contacto com a escrita de Forster e foi uma delícia! Seria uma leitura para me acompanhar durante todo o mês, mas durou apenas 10 dias. Não conseguia parar e só queria saber se tudo terminava bem. No final do livro, há uma nota final em que o autor fala do porquê de esta obra ter sido guardada durante tanto tempo antes de ver a luz do dia. Há também uma nota sobre a homossexualidade bastante interessante.
4809907564	Is this a five star book if Ben Wishaw is not in my ear? I can’t say. I will say: I highly recommend consuming the book in that way, though. A gay story from 1910 is bound to sing with me too, since I haven’t read much set in that time period. And if I have, Likely gays and “queers”, meaning odd and weird are, to say the least, a pejorative. But I think the class differential also augmented this for me. It’s the kind of thing that resonates still in a timeless fashion, though tempered very much now. And this is, as Forster mentions in the end note, Very English, further exceeding my expectations.In other ways it’s sometimes “too” quiet. But I’ve always liked books like that. It’s interior and probably “slow paced”, but that also usually means it’s brilliantly rendered, as it does here. The prose work was fine, augmented by Wishaw possibly—I’ll never know—and it far from overstays it’s welcome. Can’t wait to read Alec, the recent novel that ties into this. I think extending the ending into a full-length novel. But I’m not positive. Any which way, I’m on board.
4095709137	'Maurice' by E.M. Forster is an intriguing story. It is a coming-of-age tale of a somewhat pretentious and stuffy middle-class young Englishman. Maurice, the main character, has a number of self-revelations, shocking to him, while in an elite public school. He has some more hard and confusing acknowledgements of who he is to work through after he becomes a respectable stockbroker. Mistakes are made. People get hurt, especially Maurice. He falls in love with the wrong guy! Don't we all?The young lovers are not of the same class, which causes angst. Adding to their problems, Maurice is not as intelligent or facile as his tutor of gay love, the young squire Clive Durham, is. Maurice is provincial and much more bourgeois, reluctant to color outside the lines. He assumes thoughtlessly his superiority over the females in his family, including his mother, too. Maurice is not without thorns and warts. Still, I liked him eventually. He does a brave thing in the end.While the young man's follies are interesting enough to keep one reading, the book is famous because of what the book's main subject is. In 1912, writing of such a thing with compassion (and passion) was not only taboo, it meant social and professional suicide. The book was not published until 1971 after the author's death because the subject matter was, and unfortunately, still is a matter of much social disgrace and personal destruction of one's life in many circles and in many countries. Maurice, the eponymous main character, is a homosexual!Ok, ok, I know, this is 2021. America has legalized gay marriage. Gay characters are openly gay on daytime TV and in family-hour sitcoms. Parents give books about being happy and gay to their children. A story about a young man who wakes up to his sexuality, then reluctantly falls in love with another young man, then loses the first love of his life, then falls more wisely and happily in love again, is not such an unusual or a surprising novel of romance to pick up in a bookstore or from an ebook seller anymore. But there are a number of points of interest in Forster's book. Forster wrote it in 1912 when being exposed as a homosexual would cause a person to lose everything - career, reputation, family, friends, social respect - and it was also illegal. If one was openly gay - and a few very very wealthy high-born gay aristocrats were indeed socially accepted, reluctantly, if they were discrete enough, even if people did not want to invite them to public parties (for private parties gays were good to go most of the time in many upper-crust or arty circles) or important public functions - and if it was proved in court that a person had had sex with another person of one's own gender, it meant many years in prison. Gay men who were outed often killed themselves in the twentieth century. To write a book of romance between gay lovers was simply not done, especially by a respectable writer who was arguably famous as a literary giant, a winner of prestigious literary awards. Forster hid this manuscript in a drawer for decades. I think he really really really felt he needed to write this book for himself! He may have lacked the courage to offer it to the public while he was alive, I think very understandably, since it meant years in prison not just social cancellation, for most of his life, but he absolutely wanted it, needed it, published! The book's plot lies somewhere on the literary spectrum between literary values and the Romance genre. I think perhaps it tips more into being a gay romance novel despite being a very genteel social commentary on religion, authority figures and class, and despite of its being full of sexual euphemisms, than it is a literary read. It definitely has literary bones, though. It shows the social difficulties of loving people when they are of the same gender in quiet realism. As the characters move around between their homes and families, their schools and London, we see a personality spectrum of people, too. But the ending is a bit, um, contrived, and too speedily done. I can't help but think Maurice might have more regrets beyond the last page of this book, no matter how noble he might think he is being. He seemed to me to be in the state of condescending pride that the character Mr. Darcy was in when he first proposed to Liz Bennet in Pride and Prejudice! But who knows? After all, Liz and Darcy worked it out.
2064664860	La historia de Maurice es el encontrarse en un mundo donde nadie habla de muchos temas, pero que con una mirada se descubren varios de ellos.. Me encantó de principio a fin, me tuvo pasando paginas todos estos días que estuve con el. La novela cuenta la historia de un joven acomodado de principios de siglo xx, que está en un dilema porque siente atracción hacia los jóvenes de su mismo sexo. Toda esa atracción la oculta, claro está, desde sus pueriles años de colegio, hasta el college, donde conoce a un joven que le mostrara el idílico amor griego. La novela no es solamente amor por todo lado, también describe como era la vida de estos jóvenes en la Inglaterra antes de la primera guerra mundial. Los prejuicios, el trato a la clase inferior, el tema del silencio de los hombres que "caían en bobadas". Definitivamente un clásico moderno en toda regla. Bueno, para mí también es un clásico en el tema LGBT.
4527400273	"It comes to this then: there always have been people like me and always will be, and generally they have been persecuted." probably 3.5 stars. at some points, particularly in the middle, this book dragged, + i think the ending could have used more focus than the waffling about in the third part. but like. i can never think that about it for too long because then i start thinking about how E.M. Forster dedicated this novel - which he published only after his death, which he wrote HAD to have a happy ending because he refused to write a tragic gay story because he wanted at least one story in the world where the gay lovers had a happy ending even if it was unrealistic - to "a happier year" and then i want to start crying and screaming and throwing up and smashing plates
1855265814	Un romanzo di formazione, con la storia d'amore tra Maurice e il suo compagno di università, Clive Durham, e tutti i tormenti che un amore omosessuale poteva portare a una persona nell'Inghilterra della prima metà del XX secolo. Una narrazione naturale, eppure motivo di segretezza per Forster, che chiese che questo romanzo venisse pubblicato postumo, a causa dell'argomento trattato. Un romanzo che ho trovato bellissimo, e che conferma Forster come uno dei miei scrittori preferiti.
4211290336	¿No has soñado nunca que tenías un amigo, Alec? Nada más que eso, "mi amigo", que él procuraba ayudarte a ti y tú a él, un amigo... "Alguien a quien entregar tu vida entera y que te entregara también la suya. Supongo que algo así no puede suceder fuera de los sueños."
3153361530	4 stars. Maurice is one of the first classics I’ve truly enjoyed reading and it has everything to do with how gay it is.
6936498134	Mentre Maurice andava errando al di là della barriera con le parole sbagliate sulle labbra e i desideri sbagliati nel cuore e con le braccia piene di aria.
3135052226	if you think about it, this is the first gay love triangle
6861372247	Esta novela es muchas cosas, pero sobre todo, es una gran oportunidad. La oportunidad (casi única) de descubrir una historia homosexual en una época en la que podría parecer que este tipo de 'vidas' no existían, simplemente porque nadie tenía el valor de escribirlas. De esta forma, te permite conocer de primera mano cómo era el tratamiento que se le daba a este tema a nivel social, médico, psicológico, familiar..., qué 'salidas' tenía una persona homosexual en esa época, cuáles eran sus principales temores, etc. Y Forster decide mostrar todo esto a través una historia sorprendente, que en muchos momentos te mantiene en tensión por no saber hacia dónde se encamina; y con un grupo de personajes que no son nada fáciles de querer de primeras. Su actitud de superioridad, fruto de su educación elitista y de gozar de una situación socioeconómica más que desahogada, hace que muchas veces se comporten como auténticos homófobos (en contra de su propia naturaleza), misóginos, clasistas... Pero por encima de todo, ésta es una historia de coming of age, de personajes que se creen adultos y los amos del mundo solo por ser el único hombre de la casa, pero que en realidad lo tienen todo por descubrir, empezando por ellos mismos. Y es ahí, en ese viaje de autodescubrimiento, donde surge la magia y donde acabas queriéndolos, con sus luces y sus sombras. Se habla mucho de la necesidad de tener referentes y esta novela debería ser tenida muy en cuenta (más incluso de lo que se la tiene) dentro de la literatura LGTB, porque seguramente sea una de las primeras piedras que se pusieron para que hoy podamos disfrutar de tantas de 'nuestras' historias.
1102239420	I wasn’t prepared for this. To think Forster wrote this, in secret, over a hundred years ago and it still resonates on so many different levels today! Maurice’s inner torment as a conflicted gay man is so relatable and the whole book just aches with longing, love and hope. I just want to give the author a big hug. I hope he was happy despite having to live part of his life in the shadows, like many are still forced to do.
3947648251	לסקירה בעיברית - https://sivi-the-avid-reader.com/מורי...
