4998694670	(4.25) This is such a strange but unique series. I can't wait to read the third one!
5154075790	Nothing about this incredible, preposterous book should be taken at face value. Certainly the ending is not what it seems. Nor, perhaps, the beginning. Some of the people here are achingly real (Lisa is a scene-stealer, as in Vita Nostra). Others are not people at all. (Truly convincing unpeople are not easy to write; one finds them in fantasy only rarely.) As in Vita Nostra, Sasha’s projections, fantasies, and misunderstandings are not just central to the story, they are the story. Despite all the things we now know as readers—despite how far Sasha has come since that fateful seaside vacation—incomprehension remains the novel’s key technique and central theme. Pry your eyes open and gaze upon the utter incomprehensibility of life, of death, of existence and nonexistence. What would it mean—these novels ask—to actually comprehend this world? It would be a kind of madness, a kind of torture.
5245047094	Assassin of Reality is just as hypnotic as Vita Nostra but not quite as inventive. I hoped the plot would develop more than it did. This book feels more rooted in reality, with the introduction of modern technology and side characters from outside the Institute, which is both positive for the character development and negative for the atmosphere. I will always be amazed by the authors' ability to turn abstract ideas about language and possibility into blazing reality. Sasha is one of my favorite fictional transcendent beings.
5115581394	I received an ARC in exchange for an honest review. I am truly honoured to be one of the first people who gets to read this in English after waiting several years for there to be a translation. As such I’ll try to restrain my actual reaction, which was an elated squeal so high-pitched that only dogs could hear it.A few years ago, I read Vita Nostra, and it absolutely blew my mind. It’s a shimmering gem of a novel—inventive, atmospheric, transcendent. It gave me nightmares. I had to make everyone I knew read it. It’s also a very complete book, and without spoiling the ending, I couldn’t imagine how Sasha’s story could continue from its brainmelting conclusion.But, continue it does, in a novel that is every bit worth the wait. Fifteen years after the events of Vita Nostra, a different Sasha, one who made different choices, dies in a car accident. The night before, she catches a vision of our Sasha, whose third-year exam at the Institute of Special Technologies did not exactly go as planned. “Our” Sasha is forced by her sinister mentor Farit to return to the Institute, where she must correct her mistakes before she is allowed to graduate. The stakes, this time, are not just the lives of her loved ones, but the very nature of reality itself.I fell in love with the Sasha of Vita Nostra, and her persistence and ambition in the face of her own terror and the perplexing, overwhelming absurdity of the Institute. Assassin of Reality gives us an older, wearier Sasha, one who pushes back against the Institute’s structures and fights for her life, her humanity, and her agency, even if that fight comes at a tremendous personal cost. I also loved the deeper glimpses we get into the lives of those around her, especially Lisa, who is just a fantastic character. It’s a complex, philosophical, challenging book, but it’s grounded in the raw fallibility of the people (and metaphysical constructs) at its heart. Sasha’s fragile and fraught relationships with her classmates, her burgeoning love for Yaroslav, a pilot with secrets of his own, even her growing friendship with Yaroslav’s aging father are rendered with sympathy but never romanticization. The Institute, too, is a character in its own right, claustrophobic and uncanny.I couldn’t rave about this book without also mentioning how wonderful the translation is. I can’t imagine how challenging it must have been to translate a book in which language plays such a central role. Without giving away too much of the story, language is a major plot point, there’s wordplay, and Russian and English are not exactly similar languages. And yet it doesn’t feel like a book in translation—the prose absolutely sings off the page. Assassin of Reality is a worthy successor to what’s probably my favourite fantasy novel of all time. Its sole flaw is that I know there is a third book and I still speak neither Russian or Ukrainian. I would give it more stars if I could, stars that only exist on planes of reality that we mortals have yet to explore.
5390019491	A lot of the power of "Vita Nostra" came from the reader, and the protagonist, Sasha, having no idea what was going on. In its sequel, we do have a general idea of what's happening -- there is no mystery to unfold. "Vita Nostra" is strange, powerful and compelling: "Assassin of Reality" does not live up to its promise. It's often clunky and the central relationship is not convincing. Disappointing.
5157586634	This is a direct sequel, sometimes even presented as the second part of the same novel, to one of the most popular SFF novels of Ukraine-born couple of writers Marina Dyachenko and Sergey Dyachenko, Vita Nostra. I’ve reviewed the first book here and when it was written (in 2006) it was self-sufficient, even if extremely open-ended, which worried a lot of readers who hoped to receive some answers. This book suggests some answers, but a lot of things remain unanswered. This is the final novel of the couple for in 2022 Sergey Dyachenko passed away.A few words about both the series and the authors. This book in the original is subtitled ‘Work on mistakes’ I don’t know the exact English equivalent but it is what one does after receiving their paper back with marks and comments. The English title of the translation, planned for early 2023 is Assassin of Reality, which is the name given to Sasha by one of her tutors. It is a part of two series – a loosely connected Metamorphosis, where publication order is used (so #4) and a sub-series Vita Nostra (#2). The first series is extremely weakly connected with maybe similar issues but different settings and characters, and the second is more like two parts of a single book.The authors are a long-married couple from Ukraine, who wrote in Russian (a large share of the Ukrainian population was Russified when they moved from villages to cities, esp. in the 20th century. This doesn’t mean a Russian identity in most cases as the current Russian invasion clearly shows, but it often means a greater connection to Russian culture) and turned popular in the 1990s. They had a single daughter with a serious illness, so to pay her medical bills and get the best treatment, they moved from Kyiv to Moscow in 2009 and to San Francisco in 2013. Quite likely because of personal issues and fears of losing the possibility to live from publishing in Russia, they never clearly publicly stated their position about the Russian-Ukrainian war that started with the occupation of Crimea in 2014. Sadly, their daughter passed away in 2018The second book starts at the same time fourteen years later and right after the finish of the first story. From the ending of the first book, readers know that the protagonist - Alexandra (Sasha) Samokhina is (view spoiler)[a rare part of the True Speech – Password, who can align fragments of reality—and open a new informational expanse.. And she possibly failed the exam because she decided to keep her human nature and love (hide spoiler)].The new book starts with her 14 years later, driving a car after a breakdown with her husband, just to get into a deadly accident. From which she wakes up as from a nightmare only to get into another one – meeting herself from 14 years ago… as readers find out, this was a possible future for Samokhina, who never entered the Institute of Special Technologies in the town of Torpa but lived her life as an ordinary human, shown to her by the ‘devil’ from the first book Farit Kozhennikov. So now she is pushed by him to return to the institute, to try to pass this time. The rest of the story in her re-entry to a renewed institute, where some tutors see her as a danger, while her fellow students (also transported 14 years into the future) have a varied reaction to her return; there is another great love, another set of weird exercises and another conflict with the world.Some readers of this duology call this book a fanfic based on the great and talented first book. And to some extent they have a point – the first book was partially a bildungsroman, a grimdark and soft-SF version of Hogwarts; the second proposes the same teen rebellion, love affairs, growing up, but doing it with a formed personality, which hardly can grow up once again. Also, I guess intentionally they added some quite strange pseudo-poetic comparisons like ‘The touch was like an entry point into another reality, like a hole in the side of a spaceship through which the cosmos flows.’ Or ‘the whiteboard remained clean, like the dress of a still sober bride’. At the same time, I think the book is less fanfic but more a musing of older writers about the first one, maybe a more cynical view. It is interesting but much less ground-breaking.
4228238828	Ничего не понятно
5564514392	"Vita Nostra" is enthralling. This sequel is not. In book one, the Dyachenkos are methodical and deliberate; while I never felt like I fully grasped the world I was in, I believed it and cared. Book two not only doesn’t really explain the reality of this strange school the young people are at; it also doesn’t even tell a convincing love story. In fact, the love story was so haphazardly written, despite being a crucial part of the plot, that I found myself rolling my eyes through much of the book. The last three or so pages are utterly brilliant, but the rest of it felt rushed and silly—and all the more disappointing for being the sequel to a book I was totally invested in.
5134239437	I couldn’t wait for the English translation of the book (coming in March 2023) so I read it in Russian. I consider myself fortunate to be able to do so because the first book in the series, Vita Nostra, blew my mind. Just like the first one, the sequel isn’t easily yielding itself to a description. If you haven’t read the first book please do yourself a favor and read it now!!The second book opens up right after the end of the first, when Sasha’s exam doesn’t turn out as expected and she is doomed to repeat her experience at the Institute, in some ways, though she is also in a higher course of study, along with her compatriots who don’t know what to make of her. Sasha doesn’t know what to make of herself really. She is both a Word, a concept, and a human, achingly messy and sympathetic. She is struggling to be herself while embracing her development, growing up and holding on to the past, and letting go of it, and creating something entirely new. It’s fascinating to see her past loves and her friends and classmates develop alongside her. I was particularly touched by their fierce protectiveness of Sasha, obviously coming at a cost to them. Farit, her nemesis and her minder, is strangely more sympathetic in the sequel, changing just as Sasha changes everyone and everything, as is her nature. Unsurprisingly, she ends up outgrowing him. It’s a powerhouse of a story, written on a higher plane of existence, while keeping a heartbeat in this one. I can’t wait for the next sequel. I am fully planning to buy the English translation when it’s available and read it again. I am not square with the Russian language at the moment, but that’s no fault of the authors. I am also planning to tell everyone I know about the book, and make them buy it and read it. It’s now my mission!
5708670139	I am constantly amazed by the Dyachenkos' ability to write open-ended conclusions to their novels that somehow allow them to work as standalones at the same time as leaving questions open for sequels to answer. Although Vita Nostra gave readers no dearth of information when it came to understanding the premise of Assassin of Reality, somehow a lot of the first half of this novel still flew right over my head, making me take much longer to get through it than I did its predecessor. The second half made much more sense and brought narrative threads together well; there may have been far more oddly poetic sentences mixed in with the usual writing style carried forward from Vita Nostra, but it was overall a compelling read.The acknowledgements section was a bittersweet close to the novel. Serhiy Dyachenko died during the process of Assassin of Reality's translation into English; the third and final installment of this trilogy will be written by Maryna without him. I look forward to reading its translation whenever it's published and discovering (view spoiler)[the macrostructure Sasha creates in her own image—and how much of a place Farit Kozhennikov has in it. If he has one at all (hide spoiler)].
5461029238	2.5/5 starsI'm not sure what happened, but I think the vagueness of the lessons and the students' powers have gone too far. I didn't understand what was happening anymore. Maybe a reread of both the books together would have made things a bit clearer.Honestly breaks my heart to rate it this low after the beauty that was Vita Nostra, but oh well
6621556731	3,5/5I dunno. Vita Nostra is one of my all-time favorite books. This one is mind-bending and has interesting moments, but overall I just couldn't get into it as strongly as I hoped I would.
5997098697	this didn't quite have the same magic that made the first book so special, but i still thoroughly enjoyed returning to this world and these characters again nonetheless.
5681204229	This is the most 3.5 book I’ve read in a long time. For two days I’ve deliberated on how much this book worked and how much I enjoyed it, and depending on which aspect of it I consider, it could go either way. If it’s on a character level, seeing what happened to Sasha in the nebulous final pages of Vita Nostra was very compelling. I think she grows in this book as much as you would like her to in the first, which actually makes the outcome of the first book more understandable. The idea of grammatical functions as analogs for constructed reality, yet also being human beings has to be one of the most novel concepts in SFF I have ever heard of. And making it work in fiction, to this degree, is the feat of a wizard. Peoples’ personalities and their interaction with the meta fiction as constructs, even as you’re consuming fiction constructed of grammar, and the struggle of a character parallels the rules of those constructs even as Sasha struggles to be a character and bypass those “rules”. However, on a plot level, I do feel it is less interesting than Vita Nostra. The reader still doesn’t really know what’s going on, so we follow Sasha in her figuring it out. But the fact that it does answer the largest questions, in some ways, makes it feel like the question is what primarily drove the most compelling aspects of the fiction. There are still some curve balls and the prose, though perhaps not quite as strong as the first book, propelled me along well, once I got used to the style again. But this is a very Middle book of a series novel. More is set up with Sasha and the plot spins the wheel more, while not getting as far. And because Sasha straddles this line of being emotionless as a construct or the push-pull of being human, there are some moments that necessarily don’t land because the emotional context is not present. Things are happening but they feed into this meta narrative. I have to imagine there is another book planned in this new (hopefully!) trilogy.
6871286180	Fermatevi al primo
4233730603	Ну не знаю. Или они постарели, или я, но не радует, как те елочные игрушки. То же было и с продолжением Ведьм. Сюжеты есть, мысли есть, душа ушла куда-то.
3533069398	Actual rating: 3.5 The story is still good and the concept mindblowing but the sequel doesn’t feel as dark and complicated as book 1. Also the atmosphere was missing for me , I don’t know if it’s the book or the translation but it was off compared to book 1
5507202628	Read like a lovely extension of Vita Nostra. A bit heartbroken I might have to wait another few years for the last book in the trilogy, but I really admired the seemless integration between the two books. Ending felt a bit rushed, but I love this series ❤
5392839730	4.5 starsWith a completely unique take on the dark academia/dark fantasy genres, Assassin of Reality is an equally innovative sequel to Vita Nostra.Despite being pretty significantly shorter than the first book, Assassin of Reality did a great job upping the stakes and expanding the world building and magic system. Even though the magic system is still incredibly unusual and obscure, the way it was portrayed in this installment made me “get it” more than I did from the first book alone. The entire setting still remains completely bizarre, but that’s what makes this series so special and work so well—and also makes them not for everyone.While we did get some character development in this installment, particularly for Sasha and some of the teachers, this book would’ve been improved if this had been expanded upon even more.Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley for the eARC in exchange for an honest review.
5000714851	I didn't love this as much as the first book which totally took me by surprise, but I think this was still an excellent sequel.It retained the weirdness, brutality, and very high concept considerations of language/speech and how we shape the world around us. Sasha's self-actualization journey is honestly fascinating.
7528313029	I am perhaps repeating what many reviewers already said, but it is what it is: Vita Nostra is singular, absolute mindfuck in the best way and still is one of my most favorite fantasy, Assassin of Reality is a clusterfuck of hormonal, silly teenage drama with reality changing atomic bomb tantrums thrown all over the pages, a repetitive, boring plot line in which the writer, for whatever reason undid all the fantastic philosophy and metaphysical theories in previous book, replacing it with unconvincing, classic all is love shit, sprinkled with occasional cool adacemia stuff. Thus, as many readers did, I decide to treat Vita Nostra as a brilliant stand alone and finish with the series here.
4684718874	В общем, "Vita nostra: Работа над ошибками" оказалась совершенно необязательным продолжением от авторов, застрявших в 2000-х (несмотря на то, что действие вроде как перенесено наше время, но ни в чем, кроме похорошевшей общаги, плазмы на стене и планшетов это не выразилось).Вообще, я осознала, что "Vita nostra" изначально меня подкупила атмосферой - причем атмосферой не фантастической составляющей, а студенческой. Я же плюс-минус ровесница Сашки и книгу в первый раз читала, сама будучи студенткой. Саша зубрила наизусть абракадабру, а я - текст про Бетти Смит из учебника английского языка (пользуясь случаем, хочу передать пламенный привет всем, кто учился по Аракину). А уже потом, при перечитывании спустя годы, цепляла ностальгия по студенчеству.Но во второй книге этой атмосферы уже нет, она какая-то стерильная и выхолощенная, и посреди этой стерильности и выхолощенности Саша занимается, по сути, тем же, чем занималась в первой книге, только место Портнова занял другой преподаватель, а вместо мамы и младшего брата, смертью которых обернулась бы несдача зачета, у Саши теперь зеленоглазый пилот Ярослав и его отец. Разве что пара персонажей чуть по-новому открылась, Лизой я даже в какой-то мере прониклась.(А к Ярославу у меня отдельная претензия, предполагается, что у них с Сашей ЛЮБОВЬ, но Ярослав - еще менее живой человек, чем части речи и грамматические правила из Института, он просто функция, причем функция не в контексте мира, а именно что функция в тексте Дяченко - картонная модель идеального мужика.)Один плюс - читается книга легко и быстро, я прочла за два дня, а если бы не другие книги и сериалы - прочла бы и за один.
5400042360	After reading some reviews I feel compelled to write my own. Subjectively, this book did not feel as good as the first book - the first book introduces a brand new magic system that is both thrilling and confusing, and finishing the first book felt like an exploit of sorts, that left you with a myriad of unanswered questions. The second book, subjectively, is less exciting; this makes sense, since it builds on a concept that is fresh in book one, and one cannot be groundbreaking when the ground has already been broken. Objectively, though, book two is no less good than the first. It gives answers, continues Sasha's story, and broadens the scope to a world ending level, thusly rendering it perhaps more grand. Of course when questions are answered, things get demystified on some level, and lose a tiny bit of spark... that is the nature of human curiosity. I think the reason we perhaps didn't love it as much as the first one is that it's impossible to replicate the fascinating experience of entering a new and intricate magic system. I still cannot wait for the third book, though!
5070124370	The first thing you have to understand is that Vita Nostra is perfect. When something is its own ideal, fully encapsulated, how can there be a sequel? The answer is Assassin of Reality.Sasha is older now, more aware. They are all. They know what is being done to them, and they know why. They cannot become a concept without deconstructing their humanity; they cannot grow without retaining it, at least a little. Without love, and therefore fear, to trap them. They will trade freedom for harmony. They will become the trap.Except there are always possibilities. A world where the ice fell on neither mother nor baby carriage, where you bought the fire extinguisher, where you swerved away from the bus. A world where love exists without fear. Be brave, Sasha tells us.
7574035301	Vita Nostra is the best book I've read this year, but this sequel is awful.Other reviews seems not to like it as much, but I'm not sure they really capture just how much worse this novel is. It's largely a "reset", with most of the plot from the first novel undone. There's a new (extremely) unconvincing antogonist and an even worse love interest. But worse, the school doesn't feel like a real place anymore; the characters don't feel like people; you can feel the world unraveling on every page, but not in a good way.Was previously very exciting about book three, which is comong soon! Now much less so, unfortunately. But vita nostra is still amazing. Its just that, I think this book and Jeff Vandermeer's Annihilation may have more in common than just being equally mysterious.
4245799525	Все бы ничего, но как-то слишком много отношенек на квадратный сантиметр текста. А ещё метафоры и сравнения. Я, наверное , уже вконец задолбала жаловаться на метафоры и сравнения в каждой рецензии. Но я же не виновата, что авторы считают, что надо бомбардировать ими читателя, чтобы знал, мать его, силу языковых средств. Пишут вот про какое-нибудь сексуальное влечение , и вместо того, чтобы поставить точку, как нормальные люди, начинают сравнивать с мокрым хомяком в животе. Им-то ничего, они штук двадцать таких в день придумывают, а мне с этим визуальным образом теперь жить.
7335693865	There's something fundamentally strange about this book and the world it creates. It defies all tropes, including what I would consider a traditional narrative structure. Things happen, but it's an extended fever dream of activity because the things that happen are just so strange.It also doesn't feel like English - it feels like Russian. Yes, it is in English, but the way sentences are structured feels to me like how Russian speakers being dubbed by the news sound. This, too, gives it a strangeness.
6093376839	The sequel to Vita Nostra covers Sasha as a fourth year student at the Institute. A few questions are answered and others will have to await the third installment. This remains one of the most imaginative series that I have encountered.
4303998613	Продолжение истории Саши. История идет в другую сторону. Не всегда понятны мне выборы, которые делает героиня в той или иной ситуации, а финал показался смазанным. Дочитала пару дней назад, закрыла, а вот сейчас не могу вспомнить финал.
5396372770	4.5 starsThere were times I felt like I finally understood the story then came something that made me question things even more.I truly have no words to describe how much I love this series despite the confusion it gives me lol
5361344940	Loved this follow up to Vita Nostra. Just as imaginative as the first book, and somehow manages to give us all the answers we wanted while still leaving us with more questions.
6621556765	felt like i hallucinated this book but i was entertained
4222311093	Мое сердце разбито
6272868056	While "Vita Nostra" didn't quite live up to the hype for me, I still found it an interesting reading experience, and was wondering what direction the authors would take with what seemed like a perfectly acceptable free-standing novel. That brings us to "Assassin of Reality," which essentially suggests that everything one read in the initial book is wrong, and is focused on the main character's trying to overcome their ostensible failure. At that point the air went out of the balloon for me and I had a hard time maintaining interest in this enterprise, and only got to the end by dint of some skimming; though that ending is an explosion of narrative color.Going forward, it's hard to see a successful conclusion to this trilogy, what with the passing of Sergey Dyachenko and not knowing what his wife Marina brought to their artistic partnership. It does make me sad that I can't give this work a higher rating.
6506290488	just like ‘vita nostra’, the continuation of this captivating series contained many fascinating themes, which i hoped would have been explored more in the second book. anyway, i was happy to return to this universe, especially because i enjoyed the prose and characters, and the writing of course. we were also introduced to new characters who, in my opinion, did not serve a purpose and it was difficult to form a connection. i was hoping for sasha’s relationships with the other characters to be developed further. ‘assassin of reality’ was basically a repetition of the previous book, a bit lackluster compared to it but i still adored every moment of it!3.5 / 5 for this one.
6384185570	I still enjoyed this, but sadly not as much as Vita Nostra - I just felt like it didn't add many new things to the story and it just read as an extension of the first book.I liked being back in this world for a little while longer though. 🖤
4746406451	Savotiška gnostinio mito versija. Ši dalis man labiau patiko už pirmą, kuri panašėja į Harį Poterį tarybinių laikų universitete.
6507193907	3.25 ⭐️
5868686709	This series is so bizzare and brilliant, I don’t understand how this could have even been conceived in a human brain.
6905759287	Che delusione
5876929661	“Saskâ avrebbe urlato, se solo fosse ancora esistita”.
5480287334	I somehow don’t understand anything but also I understand everything. And you don’t have to understand everything because the book will drag you along anyways. I can’t explain it I just need everyone to read it.
4555910393	Ну, в первую очередь, стоит сказать, что произведения Дьяченко я считаю честным сравнивать только самих с собой. В наши дни столько разных пустых или бестолковых книг, что даже самые слабые произведения Дьяченко, их намного лучше.У меня всегда произведения авторов вызывают море эмоций. Я часто не соглашаюсь с тем, как написаны персонажи или считаю их поступки нелогичными, но читаю до конца взахлеб. Эта первая их книга которая вызвала у меня равнодушие. Что очень резко контрастирует с острым взрывом мозга от оригинала Vita Nostra.Я очень удивлена, что авторам нечего добавить или сказать большего о мире в Vita Nostra. Я не писатель, но у меня в голове уйма идей о том, как можно было лучше и интереснее написать продолжение. Остается одно - верить, что авторы так долго не хотели писать продолжение, потому, что считали книгу законченной. Поэтому когда по каким-то причинам их вынудили написать продолжение, они просто описали тоже, что и в оригинале, вкратце и менее интереснее.Знаете, когда у вас супер всемогущий главный персонаж, а надо писать продолжение, приходиться выбирать. Либо вы напрягаетесь и пишете о последствиях такого существования, что трудно писать и может быть нудно читать. Либо поворачиваете время в спять и забираете весь проделанный путь - самый частый, безопасный и скучный вариант. К сожалению авторы выбрали безопасный путь.Мои впечатления от прочтения:Саша стала снова тупой, иррациональной и слилась по характеру со своей мамой. Перечеркнут весь ее путь, знания и рост. В добавок как пощечина, нам в самом начале объявляют что она завалила экзамен. И вообще, авторы всячески пытаются сделать ее изгоем и показать как ей нет места ни среди людей, ни среди понятий.Фарид стал смахивать на типичного злодея и потерял все тонкие нюансы характера и поведения.Читая первую книгу, мне никогда не хотелось узнать побольше об интимной жизни и любовных отношениях Саши. Для меня лично, все эти сопли, дешевая нелогичная драма и постоянная озабоченность о "выйти замуж - родить детей", отвратительна и старомодна. Похоже авторы считают, что именно этого не хватало этой истории. Какое саморазвитие? Мне парень не сказал что женат! Я виделась с ним пару дней в жизни и перемолвилась всего парой слов, но мы созданы были друг для друга. А он меня так предал! Логика железобетонная.И таких моментов уйма.Признаю, они были и впервой книге, но не выходили на первый план. Завораживающий сюжет помогал связывать все эти повседневные моменты вместе. А когда напряжения и сюжета нет, то они начинают раздражать.Книга будто набор идей. Реализованных и не очень. Концовка заранее ясна. Ничего нового не сказано. Очень жаль, но кому-то наверно понравится. Читайте и решайте сами, ваше это или нет.
4580818538	Роман Vita Nostra на меня в свое время произвел огромное впечатление. Как-то он очень хорошо ложился на мои личные переживания и опыт (как учебы, так и первых лет работы в консалтинге).Да и вообще всем его советую - не зря книжка получила столько наград, и не только внутрижарновых, и не только российских (вроде признана переводной книгой десятилетия во Франции).По стилю это был нуарный Гарри Поттер (по выражению Юзефович и это очень точно имхо): В ГП в качестве мотивирующих факторов у главных героев был целый спектр эмоций, а в мире Дяченко это в основном Страх. И это изначально более взрослая история.Работа Над Ошибками это прямое продолжение (те же герои, тот же сетап) и чем-то напоминает фанфик, а не самостоятельное произведение. И я бы не удивился, если бы изначально они были написаны сразу вместе как части одного большого романа.Мне кажется, что несмотря на 15 лет разницы настроение удалось снова очень точно "схватить" - нет ощущения, что это другая история, другой мир. А атмосфера там что надо: убаюкивающе-кошмарная. И работает на нескольких уровнях: как весь процесс метафизического обучения и рассуждений про свободу воли, так и общий очень точный фон бытовых зарисовок, от общажной жизни до первых попыток отношений. Мне всегда очень хорошо заходит такое сочетание.Концовку я не уверен, что понял; или - если понял - то не принял. Но почему-то это не важно) - процесс более ценен.Читается - как и в прошлый раз - взахлеб. Минус звезда за отсутствие оригинальности - это во многом тот же самый первый роман, рассказанный немного по-другому. Необязательный, первая книга самодостаточна, но точно не плохой
4230995073	Гоґвортс, на який ми заслуговуємо, угу.Роман Vita Nostra дуже важлива для мене людина, до речі, тезко "пілота" з "Роботи над помилками", вважав найкращим у доробку Дяченків. (Для мене самої абсолют у них - "Відьомська доба", саме україномовний варіант). Я ж до VN cтавилася цілком приязно, але без надмірного захвату. А от "Робота над помилками" - насправді, на даль, ніяка не робота над помилками, а самозаперечення. Спроба авторів сперечатися з собою-колишніми, часів уже згаданої "Відьомської доби". Такий, знаєте, насмішкувато-поблажливий погляд на те, що колись відстоювали. Мовляв, це раніше ми були дурні, в нас Любов рятувала світ, а герої були звичайними людьми, яких обставини примушували стрибати вище голови. Тепер у нас щосторінки по десять алюзій на весь курс філософії й літературознавства, космогонія, яку ми самі не до кінця опрацювали, і професійний цинізм. Круть, еге ж?Круть. Тільки от герої жодної емпатії не викликають більше. І мова - нежива.Словом, ні.Мені не болить, а отже, це не ті, колишні, геніальні Дяченки.
6846511779	Non so se quelli che hanno messo meno di quattro stelle hanno letto lo stesso libro che ho letto io, in questo caso... ragazz* ma l'avete letto bene? È deliziosamente difficile, ma coerente e mantiene l'escalation di emozioni dall'inizio alla fine.. o per meglio dire, dall'inizio del primo libro a poco prima della fine di questo. E qua si ferma la mia riflessione, perché per dire che questo titolo rasenta la perfezione dovrò aspettare il terzo, in quanto ho un leggerissimo timore che con le rivelazioni delle ultime pagine ci si porterà dietro una serie di cliché che spero con tutta me stessa di non vedere nel prossimo e ultimo titolo della saga. Questo mi porta ad un'altra riflessione: se continuiamo a leggere libri facili e a dar loro 5 stelle, mentre a questi titoli che richiedono qualche livello in più di concentrazione e attenzione continuiamo a dare 3 stelle, non abbiamo davvero capito la bellezza di chi della scrittura ne fa davvero una passione e dei testi poesia.
4143733557	Как и сказано в аннотации, это не самостоятельное произведение, а прямое продолжение первой части - вполне добротное продолжение. Я, правда, ожидал немного другого: мне бы хотелось увидеть, как отдельные слова-студенты складываются во фразы, как устроен синтаксис, грамматика Речи. В конце концов, кто её (Речи) автор. Ничего этого почти нет в тексте романа. Но есть дальнейшее развитие линии Сашки Самохиной, её борьба со страхом, поиски альтернативы страху и желание, прозвучав как Пароль, создать мир, в котором можно не бояться. Если первая часть - это переосмысление платоновских эйдосов, то здесь на первый план выходят философские концепции, связанные с рассуждениями о свободе воли. Не шедевр, но вполне качественная философско-фантастическая проза.
6099023065	2.5 rounded up. honestly, kind of a bummer compared to Vita Nostra. whereas VN was confusing in a metaphysical way, this one was just confusing in a confusing way. i felt the MC’s alienation through the whole thing and it felt more unnecessary than anything. i love the way that reality is played with, re-written, and fumbled in this one, but the rest of the story i could honestly give or take. “spiral galaxies are unbearably beautiful; their milky-white, soft spiral arms fold so intricately. violet, purple, crimson, turquoise: deep colours on the background of absolute darkness. that’s how the Universe unfolds: in silence.”
5544829406	Not quite as good as the first book but there are still ideas in this that will be in my mind for a long time. Still strange and metaphysical and I love how it has built up the ideas to the point where they make sense even though it's so outside of reality.-----On re-read, I loved this even more. And I think having understood Vita Nostra better after 3 reads gave me a much better foundation for this. I think the main thing that lets this down is that it is much shorter than the first book and in a lot of ways Sascha's goals are the same.But anyways, hyped to get to the third book now :)
5451920424	Eu adorei esse livro, mas mesmo assim tiveram alguns momentos que foram bem lentos.Eu gosto muito da forma que os personagens foram desenvolvidos e todo o crescimento que eles tiveram. Mesmo assim acho que no fim acabou sendo um pouco uma repetição do que acontece no primeiro, principalmente o desfecho.
4878489551	Ma che trilogia pazzesca, innovativa, contorta e allegorica eh?! Devo leggere il terzo ho capito
4892047718	Cant tell if im dumb or if most of this book is just very confusing hahahah IM SCREAMING!!! MARCH 2023 CANNOT COME FAST ENOUGH :')))))))
4921139813	Thank you to NetGalley, Julia Meitov Hersey, and Harper Voyager for sending me a copy of this ARC in exchange for an honest review.CONTENT WARNING: death, bloodWow, this book. I only read Vita Nostra last year, and reread it recently to prepare for this book, so I could keep the story fresh, and discovered that this is the complex, layered kind of story that makes things a little clearer each time I read it. And I absolutely couldn’t wait to start reading this, but I also knew I wanted to savor each and every word of this book, which I was convinced was going to be as much of a masterpiece as the first one.To start with, this story worked its way into my brain and refused to let go. It immediately pulled me right back into this twisted world of dark academia, which took me a little bit to adjust to. We start out with Sasha outside of the institute after the surprising outcome of her third-year final exam. She’s watching a version of her life that could have been if she had chosen the other path open to her, the one where she didn’t go to the institute at all, and sees how that path plays out. But while she’s processing the implications of all of this, Farit appears and gets her to return to the institute.Once she returns, she realizes how different things are. She doesn’t view the outside world the same, and while she knows she fits in at the institute, there’s new tensions there as well. The teachers aren’t as encouraging and friendly, and she doesn’t connect with her fellow students the same way. Whereas she’s always been at the top of the class, she isn’t any longer, and the whole dynamic is different, although Sasha herself hasn’t changed much at all. Sasha experiences even more growth in this story. Initially, she regresses a little, but I can’t really fault her for it. She goes through so much, and it’s as if she’s gone through more than a person can be reasonably expected to put up with. But Sasha is a smart, tough, and extremely stubborn woman, and when she sets her mind on a path, it takes an awful lot to divert her. We’ve seen how much she’s willing to sacrifice in the quest to reach her goals, but she doesn’t compromise her values and will go out of her way to help people that she cares about, even if they’ve hurt her. She’s an unusual mix of tough and soft, and I find it easy to identify with her. But I see her start to make adult decisions in this story, basing her own path off of how it will affect others first, rather than thinking of them as an afterthought.This story was just as complex as the last one, and I get the vibe that reading this a second time will offer just as much increased insight into it when I do go back for a reread. I’m obviously going to be sitting on tenterhooks until the next book comes out, because these are some incredible, mind-blowing books that just can’t really be explained in any way other than OMG YOU JUST NEED TO READ THIS SERIES IMMEDIATELY. Let me simply say that these are among my favorite dark academia series, and they’re some of the most completely unique and original books that I’ve ever read.
6954191143	5-Questa serie ha dell’incredibile: riesci a comprendere tutto quello che sta accadendo mentre stai leggendo, ma appena ti soffermi a ragionare ti partono gli svarioni da calcoli di fisica quantistica quando tu hai smesso di capire la matematica nel momento in cui si è limonata l’alfabeto.Alla faccia della coppia tossica.Non sto scherzando.Ha uno stile così particolare e una trama così complessa che è l’originalità stessa a comparire sulla scena per applaudire con tanto di lacrimuccia.E c’è lo stesso problema del precedente romanzo: è difficile parlare della storia in modo oggettivo.Ma si può riassumere il tutto così: Saška ritorna in sé dopo aver sostenuto l’esame del terzo anno, ci sono loop temporali, nuovi amori, nuovi corsi, nuovi professori e nuove sfide.Il fatto che venga soprannominata “Assassina di realtà” non è a caso.Multiverso, questo sconosciuto (e la Marvel per una volta non è pervenuta).E va bene: detta così sembra il solito continuo di un romanzo ambientato in una scuola di magia, ma arrivati a questo punto sappiamo che ciò vuol dire minimizzare il tutto a livello atomico.Vita nostra è una serie che si vive sulla propria pelle: emoziona, fa scattare risse tra i neuroni, appassiona, provoca pelle d’oca e ti lascia uno strano sapore sulla lingua.… no? Solo io? … ok.Insomma, non è una lettura leggera sia per la storia in sé ma anche per lo stile e le scelte narrative presenti. Eppure ti regala tante soddisfazioni.Quindi, se volete continuarla o iniziarla, vi consiglio di armarvi di pazienza e di scegliere un periodo in cui potete dedicarvi esclusivamente alla lettura.Soddisfatti o… ehi, non guardate me per i resi.
7816643945	Sono arrivata all'ultima pagina di questo secondo libro come sono arrivata all'ultima pagina del primo: confusa, con gli occhi stanchi e con un tremendo mal di testa. La differenza, però, sta nel fatto che il primo mi ha sconvolta perché non avevo mai letto niente del genere e non ho avuto modo di pensare a nient'altro (5⭐️ senza se e senza ma), il secondo, invece, non è stato una novità e quindi ho avuto modo di riflettere un po' su cose normali, come quando si legge un libro normale. Mi piace ancora non avere assolutamente idea di quello che è successo, io non ho capito niente, lo ammetto. C'è, tuttavia, qualcosa fra le pagine di questi due libri che mi fa pensare a dei tentacoli che mi hanno catturata e soffocata e non sono riuscita a fare niente nella mia vita se non continuare a leggere e non so se questa sia una cosa positiva o no. Perché ho continuato? Forse volevo delle risposte? Ma le ho avute? No.Trovo che siano veramente interessanti i rapporti fra i personaggi, le conversazioni sono strane, soddisfacenti e non soddisfacenti allo stesso tempo. È possibile? In questi libri, a quanto pare, sì. Vorrei un video, un documentario, una spiegazione perché non mi dà pace finire e non aver capito. Vorrei vedere questi libri come dei cartoni animati, vorrei che quello che ho letto avesse una forma e fosse più definito di così, anche se nella mia mente le immagini sembrano chiare, io vorrei vederle lo stesso. Sono soddisfatta? Sì e no, non lo so. Saprei riassumere quello che è successo? Assolutamente no. Rileggerei un altro libro così? Sì, senza dubbio. Accetto di non riuscire a comprendere, forse è proprio questo il punto.
6429904588	Vita Nostra was a book that f*cked with my mind more than any other. Assassin of Reality is not a bad sequel at all, it is written well and there is more mind-f*ckery to wallow in. But I do not think it was truly needed and most importantly what made Vita Nostra SO appealing to me and my sensibilities was the extremely believable campus and student life described (so vivid you could smell the clothes drying on the radiators in the small rooms) and that is no longer here. The setting has been moved into our present time, including the technology, and the story no longer has that patina that had made it so immersive. There is also not a lot new to discover, we already know pretty much everything as does the main protagonist. Read if you felt unsatisfied with the open-ending of the first book.
6864793599	4.5It's unusual for me to like a book which is written so clinical, devoid of emotion, very dry but reading it I felt so much. It's a surprise to me as well. My god I just want to hug Sasha so tight. Sometimes I hated her but I still will always be on her side. I think Vita Nostra was a masterpiece and nothing can touch it in my opinion with what it did creativity -wise but this book stood on its own especially the beginning and the end, really it was anxiety inducing , the middle part dragged but still really good. Can't wait for book three.I read in a review which i feel really summarizes the whole concept of this world which is - what would it actually mean to comprehend the world? It would be kinda madness, kinda a torture.
5678053833	This wasn’t that good :,( I loved Vita Nostra but what made Sasha lovable in the first book was missing from this and the elements of fantasy became confusing. Part of that could’ve been because it’s been translated from Russian, but I did really love the authors’ style and I found the world they built really captivating, this book just didn’t live up to the first for me
7567667120	Getting through vita nostra was a painful journey in a phenomenal world, that forced empathy with Sasha's journey that was so worth it. Assassin of Reality was similarly painful but meandered nonsensically with a disappointing ending, rather, it felt like and end with no conclusion or understandable development. The prose was still impressive. Almost DNF.
6245319383	This book started as almost immediate pick up where part 1 left off. However, the progression of events felt a little more disjointed than the first. I HIGHLY recommend reading this almost immediately after the first book for that reason. But despite those problems, knowing the ending makes re-reading certain chapters rewarding and is a testament to the themes of the book.
6779645448	Found the beginning a tad slow after the amazing ending of the first book BUT I am sooo glad I stuck with it because wow!! Cant decide if I need a third book asap, if it was the perfect ending, or if I need to go back and read both books again.Best book series in a long long time
7236562285	Rest in peace, Sergey. Really 4.5 rounded up. Assassin's storytelling is much more direct than in Vita Nostra, making it a much faster read (in addition to its shorter length). This more open style made it easier to connect with Sasha and the world of Vita Nostra. However the story itself feels mostly like an extension of the first novel, with not much significant new information and a few strange "substitutions" that felt out of place.
7734980778	I never actually know what happens in these books but I love them so much so it doesn’t really matter.
5828345610	Not an unpleasant listen but didn't do anything new over the first one.
7428317338	Best books I’ve ever read, the second one is just as magnificent as the first!
5191067960	Whoa! Just, Whoa! I’m going to need some time to process what I just read. This was an innovative sequel to “Vita Nostra.” And yet, I get the feeling that it’s NOT the end of Sasha’s story. Complete RTC.
4986893716	My most anticipated book of the year, and it absolutely blew me away. I can’t wait to read it again and again and again.
6798075598	Loved this one but I am OVER these endings…
5487535881	Not quite as good as the first, but I was still engaged the whole way through. I really liked Sasha as a protagonist, the vibes, the weirdness and the world building.
6906256656	Ma che devo scrivere, sto malissimo a tratti benissimo, ancora non ho ben realizzato che non rivedrò più Saska probabilmente devo tornare in terapia però il libro è meraviglioso
