234650315	If you like your books to move in a linear fashion this book is not for you. It hops around and attention must be paid or you will find yourself flipping back a few pages to reestablish the thread of the story. I took this on a plane flight, crazy right? Not exactly the normal "light" reading I take on flights. It was a stroke of genius. I absolutely fell under the thrall of Dostoyevky's prose. (Thank you to my fellow travelers who didn't feel the need to chat with the guy who obviously is so frilling bored he has resorted to reading a Russian novel.) I zipped through three hundred pages like it was butter and found myself absolutely captivated by the evolving drama of the Brothers Karamazov, the women that drive them crazy, and the father that brings to mind the words justifiable homicide.I have to give a plug to these Everyman's Library editions. A 776 page novel that feels like a 300 page novel. Despite the smaller size, the print size is still easily readable. I will certainly be picking up more of these editions especially the Russian novels that are translated by the magical duo of Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky. Translators Volokhonsky and PevearOne of my complaints, when I was in college, and liked to torture myself with the largest most incomprehensible Russian books I could find, was that the nicknames and diminutives of various Russian names increased my frustration level and decreased my ability to comprehend the plots. I certainly spent too much time scratching my head and reading feverishly to see if I could figure out from the interactions of the characters if Vanky was actually Ivan or Boris or Uncle Vashy. I did not have that issue with this book. Despite a plot that skipped around I did not experience the confusion that has marred my memories of other Russian novels. This is the story of the Karamazov family. The father Fyodor and his four sons. There are three legitimate sons Dmitri, Ivan and Alyosha, but I believe that Smerdyakov is also an illegitimate son, though not confirmed by the author given the tendencies of Fyodor to hop on anything in a skirt I would say chances are pretty good that the boy is a Karamazov. The recklessness at which Fyodor lived his life is really the basis of the plot. The motivations of the other characters all revolve around reactions to the careless and insensitive behavior of the father. Dostoyevsky wrote a description of Fyodor that still gives me a shiver every time I read it. "Fyodor's physiognomy by that time presented something that testified acutely to the characteristics and essence of his whole life. Besides the long, fleshy bags under his eternally insolent, suspicious, and leering little eyes, besides the multitude of deep wrinkles on his fat little face, a big Adam's apple, fleshy and oblong like a purse, hung below his sharp chin, giving him a sort of repulsively sensual appearance. Add to that a long, carnivorous mouth with plump lips, behind which could be seen the little stumps of black, almost decayed teeth. He sprayed saliva whenever he spoke." Fyodor is a skirt chaser and since he is rich he can afford to throw these opulent parties that evolve/devolve into orgies with the local women. Given the description above I can only speculate that gallons and gallons of good vodka must be in play to achieve this end. Problems mount as he falls in love/lust with a young beauty of dubious morals named Grushenka. His oldest son Dmitri is also in love with this young woman and as they both vie for her hand the tension between the Karamazov's ratchets up to dangerous levels. Dmitri while pursuing this dangerous siren throws over Katerina, a girl that he owes 3,000 rubles. After Fyodor is murdered (It was similar to waiting around for someone to kill J.R.)those same rubles become central to the subsequent trial to convict Dmitri of the murder. The murderer is revealed to the reader and as the trial advances the tension increases as we begin to wonder just how the truth will be revealed. There are subplots with Father Zosima and his life before becoming a monk. Alyosha, the youngest son, was studying to be a monk under Zosima's tutelage, but becomes embroiled in the power struggles of the family and leaves the monastery to seek a life in the real world. Alyosha also becomes involved with the care of a dying child named, Ilyusha who is in the book to illustrate the heavy burden that the seemingly inconsequential actions of people can leave on others. The book explores that theme extensively. It was fascinating to watch the ripple effects of each character's actions as the chapters advance. Every time I picked this book up I had to read large chunks because it simply would not let me go. The reactions and high drama created by the smallest spark of contention in the characters kept the pages turning and as new information snapped into place I found my pulse quickening as my brain sprang ahead trying to guess where Dostoyevsky was taking me next. I worked with a young woman years ago that said that I reminded her of one of the Karamazov brothers. Because of the diverse personalities of the brothers, and the fact that I can see a little of myself in each brother I'm still left with the grand mystery as to which brother she was referring too. It serves me right for waiting so long to read this beautiful book. If you wish to see all my most recent book and movie reviews check out http://www.jeffreykeeten.com
2141551469	I'm writing this review as I read. Frankly, I'm astounded by how good this is and how compelling I'm finding it. Astounded? Why should that be? This is a classic, after all. True, but it breaks just about every "rule" of fiction. The plot so far is virtually nonexistent: three brothers get together with their wastrel father and all sorts of dysfunction, including an odd love triangle involving the father and the eldest son, are revealed. The brothers aren't particular close to each other, and really not much happens except that they meet at a monastery, where the youngest son lives, for an audience with a holy man who's dying, and then they go their separate ways, except that they have kind of random meetings with each other and with the woman involved in the love triangle, and there's a vague sense of foreboding that something will happen to the father. And the characters? Not really the kinds of characters we're used to in contemporary fiction. These are characters who struggle with all kinds of philosophical issues and enjoy nothing more than debating them at length with each other. Sounds boring? Well, it's not. Not at all. By the way, I'm reading the Ignet Avsey translation based on Kris's recommendation, and it's wonderful so far!***One of the things I find so fascinating about this book is how it can be both one of the most dark and cynical works I've read, and one of the most overtly spiritual and soulful. This is a true testament to Dostoyevsky's range, to how effortlessly he "contains multitudes" in this masterful work.***[Alert: Some Spoilers to Follow]One of the most cynical passages I've read so far is about how, following the holy man's death, his fellow monks are all shocked when his corpse begins to smell. Because of course if he'd been a true holy man, they figured, his corpse wouldn't have smelled at all, so the fact that it started smelling makes them all begin to question whether he'd really been what they'd imagined. Soon several of them begin to remember times when he'd been shockingly and suspiciously less-than-holy, and then the pile-on really begins, as the monks begin competing to disavow him the most, with only a couple of his friends holding onto his good memory, but even they are cowed into silence by the general gleeful animosity. Oh, this Dostoyevsky really knows how to plumb all that's dark and pathetic about human nature.***After about page 500, the plot really picks up. We have murder, a mad dash to a woman, heavy drinking, protestations of love, and the police moving in. After the languid plotting of the opening sections, I'm almost breathless!***The use of the narrator here is so interesting. We have a nameless figure who lives in the place where the events take place recounting the story almost as if recounting a legend. At the same time, we get the characters' most intimate thoughts and long speeches that the narrator could not possibly have known first-hand. It all adds to the notion that this may be more the narrator's own tall tale than any faithful recitation of history--which of course is true, because it's a novel, but the way the artificial nature of the story gets highlighted makes me think it's another example of Dostroyevsky's cynicism at work.***All signs point to Dmitry as the perpetrator, but the way he protests his innocence just makes you want to believe him! He's having a hard time of it, though. The prosecutor and magistrate conduct a long interview of him, and the evidence is damning.Interestingly, after Dmitry is taken away, the scene shifts radically, revisiting the young boys we'd briefly met earlier. What is Dostroyevsky doing here? In the figure of Kolya, a 13 year-old prankster wunderkind, he seems to be pointing out the limits of rationalism, the way it can be abused to wow those with slightly less knowledge and how it can ultimately come off as a big joke.***Now things have become complicated. Who's really guilty of this crime? We know who "did it" because he tells Ivan, but then he blames Ivan himself for his athiesm--for influencing him by the notion that nothing we do matters anyway.***At the beginning of the trial, we see Dostoyevsky's biting and cynical nature reassert itself, as he describes the spectacle that the event has become--the people who've traveled from far away to witness it, drawn by their desire to see the two female rivals for Dmitry and Dmitry himself, who's especially attractive to the ladies because of his reputation as a "ladies' man." The proceedings themselves seem secondary to the spectacle and the sport.***The trial itself is a fascinating deconstruction of Dmitry's character--how that character can be everything the prosecutor says, and yet at the same time, it's everything his defense counsel says too. We're given to long speeches about the character that are fascinating psychological studies (the lawyers themselves debate about this newfangled science of psychology--how plastic it is, how it can be used to justify and explain anything). You can see Dostoyevsky working on multiple levels here, showing multiple sides of his character that don't quite cohere, and that's exactly the point, that people are complex and inconsistent and constantly at war with themselves, so what does "character" mean? What does "a" character mean in a novel? And just when it looks like the defense will carry the day....***The coda is a plan for escape and the funeral of a young boy, and yet it end on a curiously uplifting note, a statement of faith and everlasting remembrance--and a change, for the better, in many of the other young boys, united as they are in love of the lost boy, who thus becomes an almost Christian martyr, the one whose death brings love to all his friends. And so Dostoyevsky brings to a close his massive masterpiece, and so I end these little scribbles.
32249447	If there was still any doubt, let me confirm that this actually is the greatest book ever written. But be warned that you need to set aside a solid month to get through it. And it's not light reading--this is a dense work of philosophy disguised as a simple murder mystery. But it's well worth the effort. It tackles the fundamental question of human existence--how best to live one's life--in a truly engaging way. Dostoevsky created 3 brothers (Ivan, Alexei, and Dmitri) with opposite answers to this fundamental question, and set them loose in the world to see what would happen. A testament to Dostoevsky's genius is he didn't know how the book would evolve when he started writing. As a consequence, the book really isn't about the plot at all, but about how these brothers evolve and deal with their struggles based on their differing world views.Dostoevsky articulates, better than anyone, how human beings really are what I would call "walking contradictions". Perhaps all of our struggles in life boil down to the reality that we desire contradictory things, simultaneously. If you like your novels with good character development, this is the masterwork. Dostoevsky's characters are more real, more human, than any other. At different points along the way, you will identify with them, sympathize with them, curse them, agonize over them, celebrate them. You will be moved.Reading this book was a deeply personal experience for me, because I saw myself in one of the characters, and I didn't like what I saw. My worldview, in fact my entire direction in life, shifted as a result of this experience. I can't guarantee the same results for you, but you owe it to yourself to set aside the time, someday, for the Brothers Karamazov.Be sure to read the Pevear Volokhonsky translation.
2110255735	The Brothers Karamazov is the greatest novel… The Brothers Karamazov is the greatest grotesque novel. And I’m afraid my interpretations of it will hardly be very popular.What is God? What is man? And what are their relationships?“You see, I close my eyes and think: if everyone has faith, where does it come from? And then they say that it all came originally from fear of the awesome phenomena of nature, and that there is nothing to it at all. What? I think, all my life I’ve believed, then I die, and suddenly there’s nothing, and only ‘burdock will grow on my grave,’ as I read in one writer? It’s terrible! What, what will give me back my faith?”In his deepest novel Fyodor Dostoyevsky created the whole gallery of human types – both male and female – that later T.S. Eliot will define as ‘The Hollow Men’“Vanity! Ivan does not have God. He has his idea. Not on my scale. But he’s silent. I think he’s a freemason. I asked him – he’s silent. I hoped to drink from the waters of his source – he’s silent. Only once did he say something.”“What did he say?” Alyosha picked up hastily.“I said to him: ‘Then everything is permitted, in that case?’ He frowned: ‘Fyodor Pavlovich, our papa, was a little pig,’ he said, ‘but his thinking was right.’ That’s what he came back with.”Fyodor Karamazov, the father was a swine, a hungry greedy hog that would devour everything and everybody on its way and nothing, bar death, would stop him. “Oh, we love to live among people and to inform these people at once of everything, even our most infernal and dangerous ideas; we like sharing with people, and, who knows why, we demand immediately, on the spot, that these people respond to us at once with the fullest sympathy, enter into all our cares and concerns, nod in agreement with us, and never cross our humor.”Dmitri Karamazov is a parrot, a popinjay – the poseur who admires nothing but his own reflection.“But Ivan loves nobody, Ivan is not one of us; people like Ivan are not our people, my friend, they’re a puff of dust… The wind blows, and the dust is gone…”Ivan Karamazov is a peacock proud of his iridescent tail – he cares about nothing but his empty and fruitless ideas.His heart trembled as he entered the elder’s cell: Why, why had he left? Why had the elder sent him “into the world”? Here was quiet, here was holiness, and there – confusion, and a darkness in which one immediately got lost and went astray…Alyosha Karamazov is a frightened calf, a cat’s paw – an infantile whipping boy created to serve the others and to be used.…while the sun, moon, and stars might be an interesting subject, for Smerdyakov it was of completely third-rate importance, and that he was after something quite different. Be it one way or the other, in any event a boundless vanity began to appear and betray itself, an injured vanity besides.Smerdyakov is a rat – he hides in darkness but he hates the entire world and he is capable of any meanness.Man is one’s own enemy… By living one unavoidably destroys oneself and the others.
4455341164	"Reading Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov is comparable to pushing a beautiful grand piano up a very steep hill."—Kevin AnsbroWhy, oh why, in a world filled with endless opportunities to enjoy oneself, did I think it was a good idea to embark on a 19th-century book that's almost the size of an electric toaster?I have friends, I have a wife, I have a life. Heck, I even have one of those home television sets that you so often hear about…The Brothers Karamazov is by no means a galloping read. It is a whale of a novel that requires the reader to drop anchor and bob about on Fyodor's ocean of esteemed eloquence for as long as it takes. It was a slog at times, and I'm ashamed to say that I almost jumped ship on a few occasions.Dostoevsky threw everything but the kitchen sink at this, his magnum opus. He plucks random details from the alcoves of his mind and scatters them like confetti, and there are more characters here than you could wave a stick at. His imagery is vivid without being overdone; the writing is tight and beautifully paced. The story focuses on Fyodor Karamazov, a boorish and wicked father, and his three dissimilar sons. Collectively, the eponymous brothers are perhaps designed to represent all of us. Philosophical and theological discussions abound; the existence of God, morality and freedom of choice are the author's themes of choice. I certainly have no complaints about the writing, which is rich and expressive. Any quibbles I have say more about me as an easily-distracted reader than they do about Dostoevsky's incontestable skill as a writer. I dare say the novel would be a godsend to a bookworm who has chosen to live off-grid for a month. I don't know how long it took Dostoevsky to complete this, but his writing hand must surely have resembled a sloth's claw by the time he'd finished it!Does The Brothers Karamazov (yes, I know they sound like a troupe of Russian trapeze artists) harbour a captivating story to rival the likes of Great Expectations or Les Misérables?I think not.Is this venerated novel worthy of the widespread admiration it receives?Absolutely.
3472813647	In 1929 Freud wrote that The Brothers Karamazov was “the most magnificent novel ever written”. Well, it’s possible he had not got round to reading Ulysses yet (copies were hard to get until 1934) and of course he never did get the opportunity to read the work of Dan Brown or J K Rowling, but even so, this gives you the idea of this novel’s impact on the brains of its readers. A SUMMARY OF THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOVThe major themes areComedyTragedyPsychologyPoliticsTheologyLifeDeathDrinkingBorrowing moneyTHIS NOVEL IS A SHAPESHIFTING BEASTFor chapters at a time this novel is about children. For most of the last half this novel is like a Richard Price police procedural (Clockers, Freedomland, Lush Life) and also like a great courtroom drama with verbatim closing speeches. Elsewhere it’s a detailed debate about monastic life and the intricacies of the Christian message. The rest of the time it’s an intense psychodrama between seven or eight major characters. In one chapter (“An Ailing Little Foot”) Dosto prefigures Molly Bloom’s stream of conscious. Got to say, this guy Dosto was not a one trick pony, not by a country mile. SOME POINTS ABOUT 19TH CENTURY RUSSIAOnly peasants and servants work, leaving the rest of the people time to talk a lotPeople are really ill quite often. This might be connected to the high alcohol consumption or the poor medical facilitiesIt is clear that the concept of interrupting someone had not yet been introduced into Russia at this point. So everyone is able to spout forth about anything they like, rambling on with multiple digressions for ten pages, and none of the other people in the room will say “oy, shut it, sunshine, we’ve heard enough from you, let somebody else have a go”. No one will say this. Eventually the speaker collapses to the floor from lack of oxygen and the next character will launch into their ten page rant. THE NARRATOR IS A MAJOR CHARACTERHe is a bumbling old fart who lives in the little town where all this happens. He says he has gone round talking to people to get all this story straight. He continually says things likeThe details I do not know – I have heard only that…I myself have not read the willThis arrival [of Ivan] which was so fateful and which was to serve as the origin of so many consequences for me long afterwards, the rest of my life, almost…And on P 573 he says Today’s item in the newspaper Rumours was entitled “From Skotoprigonyevsk” (alas, that is the name of our town, I have been concealing it all this time). THERE ARE ZINGERSYou probably thought Dosto was a bit gloomy but this is often a comic novel, yes really. For instance Dmitri saysWho doesn’t wish for his father’s death ? …Everyone wants his father deadAnd the narrator himself comes out withThe two were some sort of enemies in love with each otherAnd Ivan says stuff likeWhen I think of what I would do to the man who first invented God! Stringing him up on the bitter asp would be too good for him. THERE IS A MACGUFFINThere is an amount of 3000 roubles that Dmitri borrows from his current squeeze, and readers had better get used to the phrase 3000 roubles popping up about three times on every other page of this 900 page novel. Because you see, totally co-incidentally, the dead father was robbed of this exact sum also. It can get slightly tiresome, I admit that. We never hear the last of it.SOME BLURB WRITERS SHOULD BE STOPPED BEFORE THEY BLURB ANY MOREThe blurb on the back of my Penguin copy saysThe murder of brutal landowner Fyodor Karamazov changes the lives of his sons blah blah blahThis is likely to get readers all het up and their anticipation of a juicy whodunnit may turn to irritation because the murder doesn’t happen until page 508. This is not Dosto’s fault. ALL KARAMAZOV BROTHERS RATED4. Alexei a.k.a. Alyosha, Alyoshka, Alyoshenka, Alyoshechka, Alexeichik, Lyosha, LyoshenkaThis is the holy joe, novice monk, all round too good to be true guy, but he doesn’t seem to have much vim, zip, pazzaz or get up and go about him. You wouldn’t want to be stuck in a lift with him. Not good boyfriend material.3. Dmitri (a.k.a. Mitya, Mitka, Mitenka, Mitri) This is the roister-doistering swaggering loudmouth uber-romantic aggravating jerk who because of his ability to drink ox-stunning amounts of hard liquor and then do the Argentinian tango or the Viennese waltz at the drop of a samovar is a wow with the ladies but you better be expecting to pay for his exhausting company because he never has a bean. Except that on the two occasions he does have a bean (3000 beans!) you will have the best time ever! Definitely not good boyfriend material.2. Pavel Fyodorovich Smerdyakov (aka the lackey)The unacknowledged bastard of Big Daddy Fyodor who is kept around as a skivvy and although he has brains because he’s epileptic and an unacknowledged bastard is never given any education and therefore becomes an autodidact with a full tank of bloodcurdling homicidal suppressed rage. He’s completely boring until he starts talking then whooahhhhh. Really not good boyfriend material.1. Ivan (a.k.a. Vanya, Vanka, Vanechka) Obvious star of the show, the full-on atheist and progressive thinker – he’s given two entire chapters of brilliant ranting against religion – Rebellion and The Grand Inquisitor and every time he slams into the room and starts sneering the quality of the conversation is going to increase. Also probably not good boyfriend material. NICE BIT OF DOSTO META HUMOURDmitri gets to make a good joke :Eh gentlemen, why pick on such little things : how, when and why, and precisely this much money and not that much, and all that claptrap… if you keep on, it’ll take you three volumes and an epilogue to cram it all in.
858340547	It's not hard to understand Nabokov's objections to Dostoevsky. It's his scruffiness as a novelist Nabokov with his literary sartorial elegance would have objected to. For example, his gun-ho attitude towards unnecessary repetition. And also his occasional lapses at organising his material for maximum dramatic effect, most evident in the construction of the trial. Nabokov was much more of a literary dandy than Dostoevsky, much more self-conscious, much more vigilant in his attention to detail, more subtle and ingenious in his artistry. But Dostoevsky was more courageous and pioneering psychologically. More intimate with the dark and unearthed side of the human condition. Nabokov was always looking for the laugh; Dostoevsky was more drawn to the accelerated heartbeat, the rush of blood to the head. Dostoevsky's closest ally as a novelist is probably Emily Bronte. I thought while reading this that it's literature's greatest tragedy that Emily never got to write another novel. It's almost a complete mystery what she might have come up with. Like Emily, he dramatizes in the outer world the illicit promptings of the shadow self. Like Emily, he knows only a thin layer of cerebral paint shields us all from violence and horror. Like Emily, he's not the least interested in life's civilised arrangements, the house and garden existence. And they both mirror Shakespeare in this regard. Characters nakedly put the entirety of their being into every dramatic moment. Character is always fate. The brothers are simplistically split into single imperatives of the human psyche: Alyosha is spirit/innocence, Mitya is sensuality and Ivan is intellect. Each of the brothers allow D to enter a different milieu of society. Aloysha surrounds himself with children and monks; Mitya with loose women and dissolute men; Ivan with progressive thinkers. You might say the three brothers combined are presented as an everyman. As always with D, his women, though relegated to background roles (historically accurate you'd have to say for the most part), are fascinating creations. This was especially evident to me as I was reading Michael Chabon at the same time whose women as a rule tend to be kind of perfunctory and less than vivid or nuanced or compelling as dramatic presences, often having no independent life outside their relationships with their men. D's women on the other hand blaze with frustrated independent aspiration. I marvelled at the idiosyncrasies of my memory while reading this. Though I've read it twice my memory withheld all the central plot coordinates, yet I could recall various scenes as vividly as if they were a part of my own life. Made me think of Proust whose narrator seems to remember what we consider incidental details of his life rather than the big picture landmarks. There's clearly a lot of truth in this perspective.I read a professional review of this which put forward the idea that Aloysha didn't interest Dostoevsky. I'd say this is utter baloney. For starters, the novel always benefits from his presence. He provides warmth and empathy. And then his narratives are often the most compelling - his flirtatious relationship with Lize or with the dying boy or with Zosima the elder for example.
406519	Contrary to widespread rumor, this is a far from bleak book. While every character has his or her own misery, and it all takes place in a place called something like "cattle-roundup-ville", the moments of religious ecstasy and moral clarity are heartbreaking in their frequency - it's hard not to wish that one had such bizarre events going on around one in order to prompt such lofty oratory.The story involves Ivan, Dmitri, Alyosha, and Smerdyakov, four brothers with a rich but notoriously lecherous father, Fyodor. All four brothers were raised by others, Fyodor having essentially ignored them until others removed them from his care. In the beginning of the book, Alyosha is in the monastery, studying under a famous elder name Father Zosima; Dmitri has just left the army and stolen a large sum of money from a government official's daughter, who he has also apparently seduced, all while pursuing a lawsuit against Fyodor for his inheritance and canoodling with his own father's intended, the local seductress Grushenka; Ivan, the intellectual in the family, has just returned from (I think) Petersburg. Dmitri is violent and impulsive, referring to himself as an "insect," and gets into fistfights with Fyodor several times. Smerdyakov works for Fyodor as a lackey, having gone to France to learn to cook at some point in the past. It's unimaginably more complicated and digressive than all this, and just trying to follow this crucial sum of three thousand rubles through the story is almost impossible. But anyway, Fyodor is killed and much of the book hinges on which brother killed him and why. When I first read this book in high school, my teacher (who was a devout Catholic, a red-faced drunk who wore sunglasses to class, and the most enthusiastic reader of Russian literature imaginable) asked everyone who their favorite brother was. Was it Ivan, the tortured skeptic? Dmitri, the "scoundrel" who tortures himself for every wrong he commits but can't help committing more? Or Alyosha, the saintly one who always knows the right thing to say? (Certainly Smerdyakov is no one's favorite.) At the time I went with Ivan - I was in high school, after all, and his atheism and pessimism were revolutionary to me. But now Ivan seems rather selfish and callow, and I can't help siding with Dmitri, the one Dostoevsky uses almost as a case history of conscience. Like Shakespeare, Dostoevsky gives his characters all the space to talk like gods, clearing pages upon pages for their reasoning and dialog. Dmitri fumbles with Voltaire and is clearly not overly literate, but in some ways that's apropos, because his main problem is the constant internal conflict between his desires and his ethics which is only partly resolved when he chooses to become responsible for not only what he does, but also what he wants. The most famous passage in the book, Ivan's tale of the Grand Inquisitor, is, to me, far less interesting than Zosima's meditations on the conflict between justice and the collective good. The elder Zosima is a kind of Christian socialist who grapples with the typical mid-19th century Russian issues of how to build a equitable society without the extremes of coercion that the Tsar used to turn to, while also ensuring public morality and avoiding the kind of massacres that characterized the French Revolution (an event that seems to have been even more traumatizing for Russians than it was to the French due to the enormous cultural influence France had there at the time.) Zosima's answer is unworkable and in some ways naiive, but the discussion is well worth it, moreso than Ivan's somewhat simplistic dualism of Christ vs. the Inquisitor. Dostoevsky was a cultural conservative in the sense that he was constantly renewing his commitment to the obligations imposed on Russians by the Orthodox Church. At the same time, he was committed to the pursuit of joy through kindness and community and a kind of interpersonal fair dealing in a way that transcends his political concerns and is inspiring to see articulated in the lives of people who are as confused as the rest of us.It's a huge, messy book, but so worth the effort. It took me about three months to read carefully, though my reading has been flagging lately, as well. I read this while listening to Hubert Dreyfus's accompanying lectures at Stanford on existentialism and this book which are available on iTunes U, and even when I felt his readings overreached, it was a good way to reread a tough and subtle work like this.
3847478041	Cartea pe care a luat-o cu sine Lev Nikolaevici Tolstoi cînd a fugit de-acasă, în 28 octombrie 1910 după stilul vechi. Cartea despre care autorul spunea că e numai o introducere în biografia lui Alexei = Alioșa Karamazov și că va avea negreșit o continuare. Din păcate, Dostoievski n-a apucat să-și ducă gîndul la capăt. A murit peste cîteva luni. Pentru nota de față, am ales un singur episod, din finalul cărții.Vă mai amintiți? După ce l-au petrecut pe Iliușa la groapă, copiii se opresc în jurul lui Alioșa Karamazov și-l întreabă dacă există cu adevărat Învierea. Iar Aleoșa răspunde că există negreșit și adaugă, „cu însuflețire, deși zîmbind”, că atunci vor avea prilejul să-și povestească „veseli și fericiți” tot ce au făcut în viața de acum. Unul dintre copii (Kolea Krasotkin) exclamă: „Vai, ce frumos va fi!”.Tensiunea romanului se risipește tocmai prin acest sfîrșit senin, iar cititorul poate exclama la rîndu-i, cînd închide romanul lui Dostoievski: „Cu siguranță, va fi foarte frumos!”.P. S. Mă întreb și vă întreb: unde afirmă Ivan Karamazov ilustra frază, citată de teologii cei mai isteți, „Dacă Dumnezeu nu există, totul este permis”? Eu unul n-am găsit-o sub forma asta în carte...
1392369583	Con qualche licenza poetica, da piccolo demone quale io sono, rigorosamente in disordine (“amate il disordine?”).Un personaggio ha un minimo di sei nomi.Tutti odiano Fedor Pavlovic. Hanno ragione.Tremila rubli.Pasticcio di pesce (quasi sempre freddo).Il sangue dei Karamazov porta sfiga.“Anche in te che sei un angelo vive questo insetto e suscita nel tuo sangue delle tempeste”.L’eredità va sudata.Caccia i tremila rubli o succede un bordello.Gente ubriaca. Jurodivyj.Dio esiste. Forse. Dio non esiste. E Gesù?E allora i bambini? “Tutto è permesso”. Con la coscienza degli altri.Questo è figlio di quale delle trentotto madri?"Una belva non può esser mai crudele come un uomo, così raffinatamente, così artisticamente crudele". Vero. Lo starec fa miracoli.Inchini.Lo starec dice cose sulla sua vita (leggermente peso ma ok).Lo starec fa puzza, Alesa è turbato.Il classico momento: “mo’ chi è questo?” (problema manifestatosi già da pagina 30). Il calvario di un’anima. Tribolazione prima (e poi a seguire). Smerdjakov suona le serenate (secondo me, è innamorato di Ivan). Il grande inquisitore. Resistete. Ivan è intelligente e laconico. Non ha preso dal padre.Grusenka urla (Grusenka è diminuitivo di Agrafena, per qualche motivo…).La febbre nervosa. “è libero un uomo simile?”. Non è una domanda. I tremila rubli.La febbre cerebrale.I cinquemila rubli.La crisi isterica.Rubli.Malattie varie (tra cui alcune paralisi).I lavori in miniera. Grusenka, sei tu? O è il vento? I segnali alla porta. Fedor, c’hai un’età, sei ridicolo. Mi pari Berlusconi, mi pari. Maniaci, ossessionati, indemoniati. Insomma, la gente non si sente tanto bene.Non ha cacciato i tremila rubli e succede il bordello. Tutti si credono Sherlok Holmes.Katja o Grusa? Ambarabaciccicoccò. L’attacco epilettico di tre giorni. L’alibi di topo gigio. Bambini si tirano sassi. Anche loro con problemi comportamentali. Tutti a casa della signora Chochlakova, festa a sbarco. In provincia le porte degli appartamenti sempre aperte, open bar, tutta notte.L’unica porta chiusa è quella che vede Grigorij (mortaccitua).“Detestava le tenerezze vitelline”. In compenso amava molto i binari. “Vile, vile, vile!”.Dimitrij, che cazzo fai, buon’anima? (buono sempre). Dannata coscienza. I due abissi. Sopra e sotto. Senza scampo. "I rettili si divorano a vicenda".Dio esiste. Oppure no.Gesù c’entra, comunque.M’ama o non m’ama?“Ho scoperto il mio caro Alesa in flagrante gesuitismo”.Ve l’avevo detto che Gesù c’entrava.“Non sei tu che l’hai ucciso”.Dire a cani e porci di volersi macchiare di parricidio.“Non sono colpevole del sangue di mio padre” (mo’ è tardi). “Credi che io l’abbia ucciso?” (eri tu quello che gridava “al lupo, al lupo”).Scrivere lettere ad ex amanti incazzate confessando di voler uccidere il proprio padre (bravo).“Non sei tu che l’hai ucciso”.Ho stato io. Un uomo nuovo."Disperazione e pentimento sono due cose completamente diverse". Vero. Rakitin è un po’ Alfonso Signorini.Lise, lo Xanax l’hai provato? Il processo. (Sarà doloroso). I tremila rubli.I millecinquecento rubli.Testimoni esagitati. Testimoni ubriachi.Bordello in aula.In fondo tutti vogliamo uccidere il papà, non c’è bisogno di prendersela tanto.Perry Mason.“Avete la testa a posto?”. “Certo che ce l’ho a posto…ed è una testa ignobile”.I lavori in Siberia (immancabili).Ancora rubli.“Che tu mi perdoni o no, resterai per tutta la vita nella mia anima come una piaga”. E questo è certo, Katja. L’America (ma che c’annamo a fà in ameriga? poi che famo? siamo russi fino al midollo)Si è trovato il cane mangiachiodi?Ammaestrare il cane.Umiliati, offesi e trascinati per la barba.Funerali e grossi lacrimoni.I bambini sono innocenti."C'è Dio, sì o no?". Ho voluto fare caciara. La verità è che questo romanzo è tutto. Fede, Libertà, coscienza, invidia, disgusto, desiderio, fratellanza, vizio, amore, Mistero, Bene, Male, Assoluto, Altro.
1700146894	I have read this book three or four times in both English and French translations. In English, grab the Volonhovsky one. I cannot even begin to describe how awesome this book is. If for no other reason than Ivan's two chapters and especially for the Grand Inquisitor, this book is clearly in the upper reaches of the greatest literature ever written in any language. The range of personalities, emotions, and reactions of the various characters - all so fully developed and realistic in that specific Dostoyevsky way - makes the plot move along so very quickly. One's sympathies shift as we vilify Fyodor and idolise Aliosha at first but then we start to feel a bit sorry for Fyodor and resent Aliosha's naïveté as we learn about Misha and Ivan...There is just so much in this novel to love. This is one of those desert-island books without which the human race would be poorer.Also highly recommended is Joseph Frank's excellent biography of Dostoyevski if you wish to understand why this book was his last and his greatest.Ivan's chapters about unbaptized children and The Grand Inquisitor are among the greatest chapters I have ever read, absolutely spell-binding and critical for today's world of "alternative facts" and disdain of objectivity.Just finished this again, but in audio format. Always so exhilarating!
1975025287	أَفَرَأَيْتَ مَنِ اتَّخَذَ إِلَٰهَهُ هَوَاهُ وَأَضَلَّهُ اللَّهُ عَلَىٰ عِلْمٍ وَخَتَمَ عَلَىٰ سَمْعِهِ وَقَلْبِهِ وَجَعَلَ عَلَىٰ بَصَرِهِ غِشَاوَةً فَمَن يَهْدِيهِ مِن بَعْدِ اللَّهِ ۚ أَفَلَا تَذَكَّرُونَ (23) وَقَالُوا مَا هِيَ إِلَّا حَيَاتُنَا الدُّنْيَا نَمُوتُ وَنَحْيَا وَمَا يُهْلِكُنَا إِلَّا الدَّهْرُ ۚ وَمَا لَهُم بِذَٰلِكَ مِنْ عِلْمٍ ۖ إِنْ هُمْ إِلَّا يَظُنُّونَ (24) سورة الجاثيةالأب المؤمن بالمادية الذي ليس له حظا من الأبوة إلا أن الله رزقه بالولد و ليس له حظ من الإنسانية إلا شهوات دنسته و دنست من يخالطهم أما الأبناء فقد انقسموا إلى ثلاثة نماذج مختلفة من الخارج متطابقة من الداخل و لا عجب في ذلك فقد كان ديستيوفسكي يصور لنا الإنسان بكل تناقضاته “الانسان متى جحد المعجزة أسرع يجحد الرب. لأن ظمأه هو إلى العجائب لا إلى الرب. وإنه لكونه لا يستطيع أن يحيا بغير معجزات سيخلق هو بنفسه معجزات أقوى . فهوى . ولو كان متمردا كافرا ملحدا . إلى خرافات سخيفة . تنطلي عليه أباطيل السحرة وخزعبلاتهم.انك لم تنزل عن الصليب حين دعاك الجمهورإلى ذلك صائحا "انزل عن الصليب فنصدق أنك أنت" . انك لم تنزل لأنك لم تشأ أن تستعبد البشر بالمعجزة. وانما أردت أن يجيؤوا إليك بدافع الايمان . لا بدافع العجائب. كنت تريد أن يهبوا إليك محبتهم أحرارا لا أن ينصاعوا إليك عبيدا أذهلتهم قوتك.”هل آفة البشر الغباء أم أنه الفضيلة بعينها؟ “ما أكثر الشرفاء عن غباوة..” لقد طال شرح هذا الموضوع في عدة مجلدات تجاوزت الآلاف منذ بدء الخليقة و لا زالت الكلمة تجري و ستجري أبد الدهر و هذا هو الغباء بعينه أن نسمع و لا نعي و أن نعيا بما نسمع. “لأن المرء يكون أقرب إلى الحقيقة حين يكون غبيَّاً. إن الغباء يمضي نحو الهدف رأساً. الغباء بساطة وإيجاز. أما الذكاء فمكر ومخاتلة. إن الفكر الذكي فاجرٌ فاسد. أما الغباء فمستقيم شريف. لقد شرحت لك يأسي. وعلى قدر ما يكون الشرح غبياً يكون الأمر أفضل في نظري.”و منذ أن يصطدم وعينا بالخلق الأول فلا نجد إجابة يقتنع بها عقلنا الصغير لا نجد حينئذ إلا حلا من اثنين لا ثالث لهما .. إما التسليم التام و وضع غلالة على العقل تمنعه من طرق هذا الباب مرة أخرى و إما بذرة التمرد و الشك التي ستنموا إلى أن تبتلعك أو تذبل حتى تذروها الرياح إن الرب قد خلق الضياء في اليوم الأول. وفي اليوم الرابع خلق الشمس والقمر والنجوم. فمن أين جاء الضياء إذن في اليوم الأول .”و لأن المؤلف العبقري لم يبخس أي شخصية حقها في هذا العمل الفلسفي الدرامي المبهر فقد كان لكل نصيب من الكفر و الإيمان في كل مرحلة من مراحل الرواية " إنني لا أقبلُ العالم َعلى نحوِ ما خلقهُ الله. ولا أستطيع الموافقة على قبولهِ رغمَ علمي بوجوده. لستُ أرفض الله. . . افهمني جيدًا. . . وإنما أنا أرفضُ العالمَ الذي خلقهُ ولا أستطيعُ الموافقةَ على قَبوله".ألا فاعلم أن السخافات لازمة لوجود هذا العالم. ان الكون يقوم على سخافات بدونها قد لا يوجد شيء و قد لا يحدث شيء.نحن نعلم ما نعلم.لست أفهم شيئا و لقد أصبحت الأن لا أريد أن أفهم شيئا. أريد أن أكتفي بالوقائع و أن أقتصر عليها. لقد قررت منذ زمن طويل ألا أحاول تأويلها. فلو حاولت أن أفهم إذا لشوهت الوقائع فورا. و أنا أحرص على أن أبقى في الواقع لا أخرج منه. الإبن الأصغر بطل القصة و محورها يتردد مليا بين الشك و الإيمان و لكنه لا يعرف إلا الحب الذي يقوده في النهاية لمعرفة الرب إننى لا أعرف الحل لمشكلة الشر. و لكننى أعرف الحب أما الأوسط فقد استهوته الشياطين في الأرض حتى هوت به من السماء السابعة و ليس بعد السقوط من صلاح “ان ما من شئ في هذا العالم يمكن ان يجبر البشر على ان يحبوا أقرانهم. و انه ما من قانون طبيعي يفرض على الانسان ان يحب الانسانية. فاذا كان قد وجد و ما يزال يوجد على هذة الارض شئ من الحب فليس مرد ذلك الى قانون طبيعي بل الى سبب واحد هو اعتقاد البشر انهم خالدون. ان هذا الاعتقاد هو في الاساس الوحيد لكل قانون اخلاقي طبيعي. فاذا فقدت الانسانية هذا الاعتقاد بالخلود فسرعان ما ستغيض كل ينابيع الحب بل و سرعان ما سيفقد البشر كل قدرة على مواصلة حياتهم في هذا العالم. اكثر من ذلك انه لن يبقى هنالك شئ يعد منافيا للاخلاق و سيكون كل شئ مباحا. حتى اكل لحوم البشر.” الإبن الأكبر كان مثالا للشهوة المجسدة كأبيه و لكنه مع ذلك صقلته الألام و اكتوى بنار الحب “يا رب! اقبلني رغم حطتي. ولكن لا تحكم عليّ. اللهم اسمح لي أن أجيء إليك دون أن أمثل أمام محكمتك... لا تحكم عليّ. ما دمت قد حكمت على نفسي بنفسي.... لا تحكم عليّ. لأنني أحبك يا رب! اللهم إنني خبيث دنيء. ولكني أحبك. وحتى في الجحيم. إذا أنت أرسلتني إلى الجحيم. سأظل أحبك. وسأظل أهتف لك بحبي إلى الأبد. ولكن دع لي أن أحب حبي الأرضي حتى النهاية.. إسمح لي أن اظل أحب. في هذه الحياة الدنيا. خمس ساعات أخرى. إلى أن تطلع شمسك الدافئة.. إنني أحب ملكة قلبي. ولا أملك أن أمتنع عن حبها. اللهم إنك تراني كلي في هذه اللحظة. سوف أهرع إليها. فأرتمي عند قدميها. وأقول لها: لقد كنت على حق حين نبذتيني. وداعا.. إنسي ضحيتك. ولا تدعي لذكراي أن تعذبك يوما” أما الأب فهو الشيطان نفسه و لا شك أعتقد أنه اذا لم يكن الشيطان موجوداً . و اذا كان الانسان قد خلقه. فلا شك في ان الانسان قد خلقه على صورته هو.“يجب أن نعلن بغير تردد أنه ليس يكفي المرء أن ينسل نسلا حتى يكون أبا ‘ وإنما ينبغي له أن يستحق شرف هذا الاسم . أنا أعلم أن هناك رأيا مختلفا عن هذا الرأي . أن هناك فهما آخر لمعنى كلمة الأب . هو أن أبي يظل أبي ولو كان شيطانا رجيما ومجرما عاتيا في حق أولاده وذلك يا سادتي لمجرد أنه أوجدني !!” يصهر ديستيوفسكي كل تلك الشخصيات التي تمثل المجتمع الروسي في قمة تناقضاته في منتصف و نهاية القرن التاسع عشر محاولا البحث عن طوق النجاة في الآلام التي ستتولد عنها اللذة و الغفران يوما ماالإيمان هنا في الرواية يولد من الآلام و ليس من العقل و هو يتأرجح دائما كبندول الساعة و ان لم يكن بنفس الانتظام “الآلام أنواع : فهناك آلام تخفض قيمتنا أو تنقص قدرنا . كالجوع مثلا . فالناس تحب أن تصدقنا في ما يتعلق بهذا النوع من الآلام . ليجعلوا من أنفسهم محسنين إلينا بعد ذلك. أما إذا كان الألم أرفع من هذا درجة أو درجتين . إذا كان ألما نحتمله في النضال من اجل فكرة مثلا . فإن الناس يرفضون أن يصدقوه. باستثناء قلة قليلة. وهم لا يصدقونه لأنهم حين نظروا إلى صاحبه رأوا أن رأسه ليس ذلك الرأس الذي لابد أن يكون في نظرهم رأس من يتألم في سبيل قضية رفيعة تلك الرفعة كلها. وهم عندئذ يأبون أن يتعاطفوا معه أي تعاطف. دون أن يكون في موقفهم هذا شيء من روح الشر على كل حال” البشر يحبون الجريمة. جميع البشر يحبون الجريمة. يحبونها دائما لا في بعض الساعات فحسب. و كأن هناك اتفاقا عاما بين الناس على الكذب في هذا الأمر. ما من أحد يحب أن يكون صادقا مخلصا في هذا الأمر. هم جميعا يؤكدون أنهم يكرهون الشر. مع أنهم يحبونه في قرارة أنفسهم. “ولكن كيف يكون هذا الإنسان فاضلاً بدون الله ؟. إلى من سيندفع..” في النهاية تأتي وصية إليوشا للأطفال في وداعهم الأخير و كأنها كانت وصية المسيح للحواريين في موعظة الجبل و كأن ديستيوفسكي يقول أن كل منا بداخله مسيح و شيطان يتصارعان. نعم مسيح و شيطان و ليس ملاك و شيطان فالمسيح هنا تجسيد لكل ما في الملاك و الإله و الإنسان من معان و ايحاءات. كما تأتي توبة ميتيا في النهاية و كأنها الأمل في الخروج من النفق التي علقت فيه روسيا آمادا طويلة كيف يمكنني أن أعيش تحت الأرض بدون الله؟ و حين سيطرد البشر الله من على سطح الأرض سنهتدي نحن إليه في جوف الأرض و نرتد إليه. ان السجين المحكوم بالأشغال الشاقة لا يستطيع أن يحيا بدون الله. و هو أعجز عن ذلك من الإنسان الحر الطليق. فمن غياهب الليل سنغني نحن اللذين نعيش تحت الأرض. سنغني نشيدا حزينا يمجد الخالق ينبوع السعادة و الضياء. تبارك الرب. و تبارك فرحه. إنني أحب الله.
145916529	On Romancing The Devil Warning: This review might contain spoilers even outside the hidden 'spoiler alert' regions. I honestly am not capable of discriminating. The book is not about the murder or about who did it, those things were very apparent before half the book was completed - the narrator taking special pains to spoil all suspense for his readers at the very beginning (harkening back to the days of greek drama and Euripides - according to whom, the effect of a story, even a whodunnit, was not in epic suspense about what was going to happen next, but in those great scenes of lyrical rhetorics in which the passion and dialectic of the protagonists reached heights of eloquence. Everything was to portend pathos, not action, which was always there only as a container for the pathos, to give it form). This was probably done so that the typical clue-seeking aspects of a mystery does not detract his reader from addressing the real, the painful questions littered all across his treatise, almost with indecent abandon. (view spoiler)[After all, we were shown by Dostoevsky varying degrees of foreshadowings of every event that eventually became turning points in the plot - starting with the numerous leading comments of the narrator including the one in the opening paragraph, Zosima's prediction of suffering for and apology to Dimitri and Smerdyakov's not so subtle clues to Ivan among many others. And do not forget that Dostoyevsky even gave us the alternate route that Mitya could have taken in the Zosima narrative - the parallels in that story are too numerous to list out here. (hide spoiler)]No, this story is not about the murder, or about the murderer, or about his motivations, or around the suspense surrounding his final fate. The story is about the reaction - it was all about the jury. Many theories abound about how the Karamazov family represents Russia/humanity/all characters but the reality is that they represent individualities; while it is that terrible faceless jury, always addressed to and never addressed by, that represents humanity. The job of the country, the society, of the whole human race is to judge, to determine the fate of individuals based on the stories that they construct, literally out of thin air, out of the small pieces of a life that they can only ever observe. The best character sketches, fictional or otherwise can only ever be the minutest portion of a real character - but from that tiniest of slivers we build this ambiguous thing called ‘character’, as if such a thing can possibly exist for a creature as fickle-minded and forgetful of himself as man. Character of a man is the greatest myth, propagated best by novelists, as no story can proceed without a ‘constant’ man who behave with some level of predictability or with predictable unpredictability, but real life is the result of adding a minimum of three more ‘unpredictable’ as adjectives to that earlier description, to come close to describing even the simplest and most boring idiot alive. But yet we construct stories, to understand, to predict, to know how to behave, we even make up stories about ourselves so that we may have an illusion of control over who we are - so that we do not melt into the amorphous protean mass that is the rest of humanity - my story separates me from all of them. I construct, therefore I am.These are the romances that Dostoevsky wields his best work against and the trial is a trial of reason, of reality pitted against the overwhelming circumstantial evidence in favor of romance, of the myth of character, of individuality, of cause and effect, of there being anything predictable when such a wild variable as a human mind is part of the equation, how can such an equation be anything but ‘indeterminate’ (to borrow Dostoevsky’s own expression)?That was the grand trial, the inquisition of reason.But how can the defense stand up in favor of reality without explaining to the jury (to humanity) why they see things not as they are, that they have made up a story that is perfect but is never real as no story can ever be - as no cause can really cause a definite effect when human beings are involved? You have to tell a story to convince the jury. You have to tell a story to defend the fact that stories do not exist. A story now, about stories. Or multiple stories to show how all stories are false if only one can be allowed to be true. The only other option is that all are true, simultaneously. By proving which you include your own story in that ‘self-consuming’ super-set and doom your own argument. There is the irresolvable conflict of the trial, of the story, of the novel, of life.You cannot discredit the myth of the story without the help of a story as the jury that judges cannot understand, cannot comprehend any reality outside of a story, human beings cannot think outside their romances. They will continue to exist as prisoners to their own stories. That is why it is a comedy and not a tragedy, as no one died and no one killed and it remains akin to a sphinx setting us a riddle which he cannot solve himself. But, judgment had to be passed as the story was told.One story among many.--------An expanded review might follow and will try to address some of the big themes of the book, enumerated below:1) On Fatherhood - The second big theme of the book. Possibly the real theme, the above only being my own story...2) On Crime & the Efficacy of Punishment - On how men will always rise to be worthy of their punishment/mercy; On suffering and salvation and on how no judgement can be stronger, more effective or more damning/redemptive than moral self-judgement; On how Ivan’s ecclesiastical courts eventually would have behaved - would they have behaved as predicted by him in his prose poem and let christ go, unlike the real court? So, in the end his alternate vision of Satan’s court is what was really shown by the current judicial apparitions? But in the fable who was it that really forgave the inquisitor or the inquisitee? And in the overall story too, who forgives whom in the end? Christ or Humanity, Satan or Church, Dimitri or Russia?3) On Collateral Damage - inflicted by the main story on side stories, on how the small side stories are over shadowed, no murdered by the main one and without any risk of conviction.4) On the Institution of Religion- On morality and the question of the necessity of religion; On the basis for faith; On the implications of faith/lack of faith to the story one tells about oneself; On how Philip Pullman took the easy way out by expanding Dostoevsky’s story for his widely acclaimed novel; On the enormous burden of free will; On the dependence of men on the security of miracles that is the source of all hell and of all action.5) On the Characters - On how Dostoevsky took the cream of his best-conceived characters from the universe of his creation, from across all his best works to populate his magnum opus, his story about stories, to trace out their path with the ultimate illusion of realism, with the ultimate ambition and to show/realize how it should always, always fall apart; On how he reflected the whole universe in a small lake and created a novel about all novels, disproving and affirming them simultaneously, murdering its own parents in its own fulfillment; On how they might have their Hamlets, but we have our Karamazov's.6) On Hope & Redemption - On how ultimately Zosima's world view trumps the cynical aspects that dominated the book; On how Zosima predicted it all at the very beginning and apologized to Dimitri on behalf of all mankind - ‘taking everyone’s sin upon himself”, thus creating an inverted reflection of the christ figure, its image playing on both Dimitri and on Zosima for that split second and then passing on to Alyosha until finally projected back to Dimitri, in the ultimate paradox, where he becomes at last a christ figure and a buddha figure, exemplifying self-knowledge and enlightenment through true suffering; On how even the Karamazov name can be inspiring and be cause for cheers even though it represents the worst (best?) of humanity; On The Sermon at the Stone.7) On Nihilism - On the absurdity of life and trying to explain it. But oh wait, this is what I talked of in paragraph length already. PS. By the way, when you read this, keep your ears tuned towards the end - for somewhere in the distance you might hear the laugh of the Grand Inquisitor echoing faintly.
1667701074	Αδελφοί Καραμάζοφ: η τέλεια τραγωδία. Ένα έργο ευσυνείδητης μεγαλοφυΐας, αποκορύφωση, διακριτή ως επίτευγμα στην υπαρξιακή παράδοση της ανθρωπότητας και στα παγκόσμια λογοτεχνικά πρόσωπα. Η πατρίδα όλων των ανθρώπων βρίσκεται σίγουρα στην καρδιά αυτών των μεγάλων τραγωδιών. Τρομάζει το μεγαλείο που κρύβεται μέσα σ’αυτό το βιβλίο. Μια φανταστική ύφανση πολυπλοκότητας κατακλύζει πλήρως τον αναγνώστη κατά τη διάρκεια της εξέλιξης. Η αλληλεπίδραση είναι τόσο απλή και φυσική σαν να συμμετέχεις στην πλοκή της ιστορίας παρέα με τους υπέροχα δημιουργημένους χαρακτήρες φθάνοντας απο κάποιο σημείο και μετά να θεωρείται αυτονόητο πως είσαι μέρος της ζωής τους. Αυτό βέβαια δεν είναι τόσο εύκολο όσο ακούγεται. Ο Ντόστο σε πετάει σε απροσμέτρητα βάθη με τη γραφή του, όσο προσπαθείς να αποστασιοποιηθείς ως αντικειμενικός αναγνώστης, τόσο περισσότερο σέλιδα τη σελίδα σε κατακαίει μια αχνιστή λογοτεχνική τελειότητα που σε αφήνει άφωνο και κατάπληκτο. Πως μπόρεσε αυτός ο μύστης να γράψει με τέτοιο βάθος για την ανθρώπινη ψυχική άβυσσο, πως δημιούργησε μια τέτοια ομορφιά γεμάτη καρδιακές θραύσεις και οδυνηρές ιδέες. Γαντζώνεσαι απο μια δυστυχισμένη γοητεία και γίνεσαι έρμαιο των περιστάσεων ως την τελευταία σελίδα. Άπειρες φορές ένιωσα πως θέλω άμεσα να επέμβω στα γεγονότα. Να βοηθήσω, να παρηγορήσω, να φιλήσω παιδικά δακρυσμένα μάγουλα, να εμπόδισω το θάνατο και το σπαραγμό, να φωνάξω οργισμένη την αλήθεια, να πετάξω μέσα στο κενό τους τις εγωιστικά ηλίθιες, χαμένες αριστοκρατικές φιγούρες που προκαλούσαν πόνο, να ζεστάνω ψυχές, να χαμογελάσω διώχνοντας τη θλίψη, να προειδοποιήσω, να συμφωνήσω, να αγκαλιάσω την απόγνωση και να διώξω την απελπισία. Άπειρες φορές. Τόσο πολύ που κουράστηκα, και ως ανήμπορη μπροστά στα τεκταινόμενα απλώς έκλαιγα ή γελούσα, με το μαύρο ζοφερό χιουμορ, εκ περιτροπής. Ο μεγαλύτερος συγγραφέας ψυχών όλων των εποχών ο Ντόστο, δημιουργεί ένα έργο πολιτικής, ψυχολογικής, κοινωνιολογικής, φιλοσοφικής και θεϊκής σκέψης, το οποίο ταυτίζεται ως αληθές σε χώρες και λαούς παγκόσμιας κλίμακας. Οι αδελφοί Καραμάζοφ είναι ο πυρήνας πολλών ιστοριών. Ουσιαστικά είναι ένα επιβλητικό έπος που σαρώνει αλήθειες και ψέμματα της ζωής και της ανθρώπινης μοίρας. Αποκαλύπτει, εξηγεί, μετριάζει, περιπλανιέται μέσα στη ζοφερή πραγματικότητα που αντανακλάει τα αιώνια αναπάντητα ερωτήματα της ζωής. Η πίστη κυριαρχεί και άρχει μέσα στην ιστορία, ποτέ όμως ως δόγμα πάντα ως απαντοχή στην δυστυχία της δημιουργίας του κόσμου. Ενός κόσμου που δεν ειναι τέλειος. Δεν θα γίνει ποτέ. Ενός κόσμου που χωρις θεό δεν έχει όρια και φραγμούς δεν μπορεί να συνεχίσει να υπάρχει επομένως ο θεός δημιουργείται απο τον άνθρωπο όπως και ο διάβολος. Έτσι πρέπει. Έτσι θα κρατηθούν οι συμπαντικές ισορροπίες. Όταν κλείνεις την πόρτα στη φυσική νομοτέλεια του καλού και του κακού ως αμάγαλμα σύνθεσης της ζωής αυτή σίγουρα θα μπει απο το παράθυρο με περισσότερη ορμή και οργή. Αριστουργηματική η στιχομυθία του σατανά με έναν απο τους αδελφούς, όπως επίσης και η ιστορία του μέγα ιεροεξεταστή που καίει στην πυρά τον Χριστό για να σώσει την ανθρωπότητα απο το βάρος της απόλυτης ελευθερίας. Η ιστορία που κυριαρχεί είναι απλοϊκή. Ένας άξεστος, αδίστακτος, χαμένος μέσα στα πάθη του γαιοκτήμονας εκπροσωπεί την πατρική φιγούρα Καραμάζοφ. Οι τρεις γιοί του απο δυο διαφορετικούς γάμους και οι υπηρέτες τους αποτελούν τον κορμό του οικογενειακού δράματος. Κλοπή. Φόνος. Δική. Εξελίσσεται αργά και βασανιστικά η εξιστόρηση πολλών γεγονότων που απεικονίζουν όλη τη χαμέρπεια και την μεγαλοψυχία των ανθρωπίνων συναισθημάτων και κινήτρων. Πολλοί δευτερεύοντες χαρακτήρες που κρίνονται απαραίτητοι για να μας δωθούν σε ισάριθμες δόσεις η ζήλεια, η αγάπη, ο πόνος, η απανθρωπιά, η φτώχεια, οι αρρώστειες,ο θάνατος,το ερωτικό πάθος που κινεί τα νήματα και η ευλογία της βαθύτερης κατανόησης του συνανθρώπου. Το βιβλίο αυτό είναι μια παγκόσμια κοινωνία, είναι ο ίδιος ο Ντοστογιέφσκι, είναι αυτός, σε ένα βιβλίο. Γύρω του οργισμένες φιγούρες ουρλιάζουν, κλοτσούν, σκέφτονται και προσεύχονται. Ο συγγραφέας πραγματοποιεί έναν προσωπικό άθλο. Αν είναι μάταιος ή επιτυχημένος δεν κρίθηκε ακόμη. Δεν νομίζω πως θα αξιολογηθεί ποτέ. Δεν υπάρχουν κριτήρια. Ανεβαίνει -γράφοντας- την πλαγιά ενός πανύψηλου απόκρημνου βουνού. Απο κάτω η γήινη άβυσσος, πάνω, στα δυσθεώρητα ύψη, η ουράνια άβυσσος, εκεί που αναπνέει ο Θεός. Προσπαθεί να αναρριχηθεί για να φτάσει στην κορυφή, να δει τον ορίζοντα και να γράψει πάνω σε αυτόν τα όνειρα του για μια πιο δίκαιη και στοχαστική κοινωνία. Ξαφνικά γλιστράει σε μια τρελή πτώση με τον διάβολο και βυθίζεται στην γήινη άβυσσο. Δεν απελπίζεται. Γεμάτος σκοτεινή ενέργεια και αναρχία αρχίζει πάλι -γράφοντας-την αναρρίχηση προς τον ορίζοντα, θέλει να τα πει όλα, θέλει να πιστέψει, θέλει να ακούσει την αναπνοή του θεού. Κάθε φορά που πέφτει μυείται σε έναν μυστικισμό και ψάχνει να βρει απαντήσεις στον πόνο του ανθρώπου. Συνεχίζει να γράφει, να μας παίρνει μαζί του σε αυτή τη σισύφεια προσπάθεια. Παγιδεύεται σε όλα τα πάθη και τα λάθη κατά την ανάβαση και μαζί του και μεις, που ίσως κάπου χάνουμε την ελπίδα, έρχεται η απογοήτευση. Ο αναγνώστης κουράζεται, ο συγγραφέας γεμάτος ενέργεια οδηγείται στην αποδιοργάνωση, μα δεν σταματάει να γράφει και αυτό ακριβώς κάνει το βιβλίο τούτο αξεχαστο. Όντας αποδιοργανωμένος δεν παύει να χτίζει με την πένα του υπόβαθρα και μία τεράστια μεταφυσική, υπαρξιακή, ψυχολογική υπό-δομή για να μπορέσει να σταθεί ο αναγνώστης. Όσο για τον ίδιο, συνεχίζει την ανάβαση ,θέλει πάση θυσία να κρεμάσει στον υπερβατικό ορίζοντα τα κάδρα της φιλοσοφίας και των πεποιθήσεων του. Ακυρώνει την πίστη όταν η σωτηρία της ψυχής δέχεται την ακραία και άδικη ταλαιπωρία των παιδιών και των αδύναμων, όμως δεν επικροτεί την αθεΐα. Σε όλο το έργο του Ντοστογιέφσκι επικρατεί εξαιρετική τήρηση αναλογιών. Η πίστη, η δουλεία, η αθεΐα, η αδιαφορία, η πραότητα, τα αρνητικά ένστικτα και οι παρορμήσεις συγκρούονται. Η παραπλάνηση ανοίγει την πόρτα στους εφιάλτες και χάνεται η λογική και το νόημα. Όλα τα πλάσματα εκτός απο τα ανθρώπινα όντα γνωρίζουν το μονοπάτι που πρέπει να ακολουθήσουν. Στο τέλους του βιβλίου υπερισχύει η δήλωση πίστης, η υπόσχεση αγάπης και μεγαλοπρέπειας. Επικρατεί μια όμορφη εκστατική ατμόσφαιρα ελπίδας, όμως κατά τη γνώμη μου δεν εξαλείφεται η αμφιβολία, η τραγωδία, η ειρωνεία και η αμφιθυμία που χαρακτηρίζουν αυτό το ορόσημο της παγκόσμιας λογοτεχνίας. Καλή ανάγνωση Πολλούς ασπασμούς. *Είτε διαβάσατε όσα έγραψα,είτε όχι, λίγη σημασία έχει. 🟦🟪🟥⬛️✡️ΔΙΑΒΑΣΤΕ ΤΟ. ΑΥΤΟ ΕΙΝΑΙ ΑΠΑΡΑΙΤΗΤΑ ΟΥΣΙΩΔΕΣ.
766316384	تولستوی و داستایوسکیتفاوت تولستوى با داستايوسكى، مثل تفاوت سعدى و حافظه.شعرهاى سعدى، سهل و ممتنعه: يعنى از بس ساده و روان هستن، آدم فكر مى كنه سرودن همچين شعرى كارى نداره. ولى وقتى مى خواد مثلش رو بگه، مى بينه امكان نداره. تولستوى هم همين طوره.شعرهاى حافظ، ولى يه جوريه كه آدم وقتى مى خونه، نه تنها فكرِ تحدّی هم به مخیّله ش خطور نمى كنه، بلكه حيران مى مونه كه يه انسان چطور تونسته همچين شعرى بگه؛ از بس الفاظ و معانى و مضامين عجيب و غريبى داره و پر از شيدايى و جنونه. داستايوسكى اين طوريه.این کتاببهترین اثر داستایوسکی نیست به نظر من (به رغم عده ی زیادی). بهترین اثرش، جنایت و مکافاته و بعد، ابله. اما در رده ی سوم، این رمان مستطاب قرار میگیره و سومین اثر داستایوسکی بودن، یعنی بهترین اثر ادبیات بودن.آلکسی قدّیسهر کدوم از سه برادر، دنیایی شگرف و زیبا و گاهی وحشتناک دارن. اما اون کسی که من عمیقاً و از عمق جانم باهاش همذات پنداری کردم، آلیوشا، برادر کوچک تر بود. (view spoiler)[چه اون زمان که مجذوب عوالم دین بود و از برادرانش گریزان بود، چه اون زمان که به ورطه ی سقوط افتاد و چه اون زمانی که به سجده افتاد و زمین خاکی رو بوسید و زندگی رو تقدیس کرد و به نوع جدیدی از عرفان رسید. (hide spoiler)]مشابه این شخصیت سالک رو، در هیچ رمان دیگه ای ندیدم و بعید میدونم ببینم. چرا، امثال "خرمگس" یا "سرگشته ی راه حق" هم شخصیت هایی مذهبی آفریدن، ولی در مقابل سلوک عظیم آلیوشا، اونا فقط بچه بازی هستن.
4103379199	Una obra maestra, digna de su fama, pero...En realidad 4,2Este libro me hace enfrentar una lucha feroz y salvaje en mi interior. Una lucha entre ser despiadado, o ser comprensivo; entre ser destructivo, o ser amable; entre ser un Karamazov, o simplemente no serlo. Empiezo esta reseña con estas palabras porque sinceramente no ha sido fácil decidir el tipo de crítica que realizaría para esta ocasión. En un lado del ring, se encuentra el Steven despiadado y juzgador, que está esperando la oportunidad de pulverizar con sus palabras cualquier obra que lo haya dejado insatisfecho, o que no haya disfrutado plenamente; pero, en el otro lado del ring, se encuentra el Steven prudente y positivo, que con mucha calma sabe destacar lo bueno de cada obra y logra minimizar los detalles negativos de cada historia. Generalmente esos combates se resuelven fácilmente con un knockout, y descifrar el resultado es solo cuestión de minutos; pero, para esta ocasión el combate ha estado bastante reñido y mucho más difícil ha sido tomar una decisión. Comencé a leer esta obra, no solo por la popularidad del autor, sino también porque varias obras de su autoría realmente me interesan, y quiero leerlas en el futuro. Mi primer, y único acercamiento a Dostoievski, había sido la lectura de un pequeño cuento llamado El sueño de un hombre ridículo —el cual recomiendo bastante—, en el cual finalicé completamente satisfecho por la manera como el autor ruso logró transmitir en menos de treinta páginas tantas observaciones y críticas sobre la vida en general. Con esta experiencia, entonces mi cerebro, basándose en su lógica tomó apresuradamente la siguiente conclusión: Si en un cuento de treinta páginas has quedado tan satisfecho, ¿te imaginas, Steven, la experiencia tan increíble que vivirás en ese libro de mil páginas? Entonces me decidí, busqué un espacio, comencé a leer y efectivamente me gustó mucho el libro. Fue una lectura con una prosa bastante destacada, que se me asemejó a la combinación entre Victor Hugo, por la forma como estructura su historia, y Gabriel García Márquez, por la duración que pueden llegar a tener algunos párrafos y la cantidad de temas diversos que se encuentran allí. Es una prosa —irónicamente— fácil de leer, pero que en mi opinión personal, ralentiza en exceso la velocidad a la que transcurren los hechos descritos en el libro. Para ser completamente honesto sentí que en las más de mil páginas no sucedieron tantas situaciones como esperaba, y también percibí que desde el inicio se reveló demasiado pronto el verdadero clímax del argumento. Desde los primeros capítulos es fácil detectar el problema principal que vivirán los protagonistas, con la única diferencia de que desconocemos la ruta que vivirán para llegar hasta allí, por lo que eso me decepcionó un poco. No me malinterpreten, no me ha parecido aburrido el argumento, solo que no creí que esa dinámica del principio fuera a perdurar para todas las páginas, quizás esperaba un secreto que más adelante me sorprendiera, quizás esperaba algo así, pero no sucedió. Hay ocasiones en las que un libro está bien escrito, el argumento principal también es interesante, pero en el que la velocidad y duración excesiva de algunas partes puede llegar a hacerte sentir que estás teniendo una lectura interminable. Los libros largos me encantan, tengo muy buenas experiencias con muchos de ellos, pero con estos mastodontes de papel me gusta sentir que cada página ha valido la pena, y con este libro no viví eso. Hubo partes muy interesantes, pero no todo el tiempo. Ahora bien, eso no significa que el libro no valga la pena. El libro tiene todos los componentes de aquel libro clásico que te invita a reflexionar sobre cientos de detalles de la vida. ¿Qué está mal? ¿Qué está bien? ¿En qué debemos mejorar como sociedad? Dostoievski en esta obra te deja con la sensación de que, a pesar de que han pasado varios siglos y tenemos tanta diversidad de cultura con respecto a nuestros antepasados, seguimos enfrentando durísimas batallas donde la protagonista es la conciencia. La conciencia te puede ayudar a sentir paz, pero también te puede condenar de por vida, eso en caso de que nunca lleguemos a perdonarnos por nuestras malas acciones que no deseábamos hacer. El tema más importante de esta novela, en mi opinión, es la conciencia, y con cada uno de los personajes de este libro, podremos notar cómo batallan todos los días de su vida con ese silencioso «enemigo». ¿Realmente quiero hacer el bien, o simplemente quiero evitar hacer el mal? Igualmente encontramos mensajes importantes sobre la familia, respetar a los padres, el dinero, la avaricia, la capacidad de tomar decisiones, etc. Personalmente no todas sus palabras lograron sensibilizarme sobre los temas presentados, pero sí hubo varias que me tocaron el alma, me dejaron emotivo, y asimismo perturbado por lo presentado. Una aclaración importante es que uno de sus protagonistas está cerca de la vida religiosa, por lo que en varias partes del libro el tema principal se centra en Dios, y en la religión. Para aquellos que no creen en Dios puede parecer algo molesto leer tantas páginas sobre el tema, y más porque se cuenta la historia de cómo un monje se volvió predicador, pero no es una situación que perduré tanto tiempo porque el tema principal del libro no es la religión, solo que el autor decide enfatizar demasiado en las creencias, cultura, pensamientos, etc., de cada uno de los personajes del libro –tanto principales, como secundarios- por lo que esta parte es necesaria para comprender al personaje cuasi principal de esta historia. Digo cuasi principal porque Dostoievski en sus primeras páginas afirma que lo es, pero en mi opinión los protagonistas son los tres hermanos Karamazov, no solo el menor, Aliosha, sino los tres. Asimismo, hay otra conversación sobre la religión entre un ateo y un religioso que también debemos leer con cuidado. Pienso que son partes que requieren leerse con comprensión, sin juzgar, y teniendo muy en cuenta que el objetivo del autor es exponer la mentalidad de cada personaje, y no cambiar nuestras creencias.Sin lugar a dudas la mejor parte ha sido el final. Es la sección donde comprendes que cada historia de cada personaje sí valía la pena para algo, y que sin la debida exposición de estas mini-escenas seguramente este acto final no sería tan llamativo e interesante como lo es en verdad. Por un momento creí que no valdría la pena llegar hasta el final del libro, pero por esa sección sí valió resistir tantas y tantas horas de lectura que realicé por más de dos meses. Les juro que si esa parte hubiera sido mala, la batalla del ring que mencioné al comienzo de esta reseña habría quedado definida en menos de cinco segundos. Afortunadamente ha valido la pena llegar hasta el final, aunque si me preguntaran no volvería a leer este libro jamás. Hay miles de historias que me están esperando. Solo repetiría aquellas que me tocan el alma en la mayor parte de sus páginas, como es el caso de mi querido libro, La Historia Interminable. Como ya se sobreentenderá por los párrafos pasados, los personajes han estado excelentemente desarrollados. No me ha parecido tan sencillo comprender a los rusos del siglo XIX, pero entre más fui avanzando más fui comprendiendo el modo karamazoviano como vivían los seres de aquella época. Principal, y naturalmente, los tres hermanos Karamazov fueron los de mejor desarrollo, aunque no por ello me inclino a elegir un personaje favorito de la obra. Todos tienen sus tonalidades de bondad y maldad, por lo que comprendo a los personajes, y comprendo sus acciones, pero no lograron inmortalizarse en mi memoria. Eso sí, si tuviera que elegir forzosamente un personaje a destacar, entonces no elegiría a ningún Karamazov, sino al abogado Fetiukóvich, que me sorprendió gratamente por su gran capacidad para presentar diferentes perspectivas de una misma situación; perspectivas que no habíamos ni remotamente tenido en cuenta.Ya casi para terminar, debo también reconocer que he sufrido bastante con los nombres de los personajes. Siempre he creído que los nombres más difíciles de diferenciar son los que se encuentran en novelas asiáticas —especialmente chinas—, pero la verdad es que sufrí bastante con los nombres rusos. Todos los nombres se me parecían, no lograba ni siquiera memorizarlos y mucho menos pronunciarlos. Lo digo con todo el respeto posible, pero esos nombres para mí fueron como trabalenguas nivel imposible. Vuelvo y reitero, lo digo con todo el respeto posible. Sé que para aquellas personas nuestros nombres también son extraños. Si ofendo a alguien, no es mi intención hacerlo, en serio que lo siento mucho, solo expreso mi opinión.Podría seguir escribiendo muchos detalles más, pero no quiero desvelar mucho de la trama, ni tampoco quiero realizar ningún tipo de spoiler. Como ya lo he mencionado en varias reseñas, los spoilers no deberían existir, matan la trama y te la friegan. En resumen, Los hermanos Karamazov es una obra madura, que con la exposición de una familia tan peculiar, te intenta dar muchas lecciones sobre la vida en general; lecciones que pueden tocarte el alma, o bien, pueden no hacerlo, todo dependiendo de la conexión que sientas con la forma de pensar del autor. Por ejemplo, pueden parecerte las reflexiones sobre la sociedad, vanas y repetitivas, pero puedes conmoverte cuando te hablan sobre la familia, sobre la maldad del hombre en el pasado, etc. No es un libro que considere apto para todas las personas, ya que depende mucho del ritmo de lectura al cual tú estés acostumbrado, pero también debemos entender como lectores del siglo XXI, que la forma de escribir del siglo XIX y de nuestra actualidad es bastante diferente, y que no podemos esperar de un libro clásico de más de doscientos años la intensidad que encontramos en obras actuales que han sido diseñadas específicamente para ello. No es un clásico sencillo, lo reconozco, pero tampoco es imposible de leerlo. Solo es cuestión de tener paciencia, no tener expectativas, intentar conectarnos con la prosa de Dostoievski, y arriesgarnos a experimentarlo por nosotros mismos. Mi calificación de cuatro estrellas expresa claramente que este libro me ha parecido muy interesante, me atrevería a decir incluso que es una obra maestra, pero que honestamente no me conmocionó con la magnitud que esperaba, no con la magnitud como sí lo hizo un pequeño cuento de treinta páginas. En esta ocasión, la batalla del ring ha finalizado en empate.
2108383503	Russian novels always get better of me, I am left battered both body and mind. But the exhaustion is like the exhaustion of sex (can’t find more fitting analogy) breathless and full of life at the same. Like the traveler who was long gone on a journey and on his return, bathes for a long good hour, taking good care of every little pore of body, soaping himself as he sinks in tub very slowly, and as water pours over him he shuts his eyes and with numbing senses recalls everything in an episodic manner, the tiniest details of his journey, and that’s the magic of Dostoyevsky, his reader is exasperated by the far off tours but at the end, is exalted nonetheless! The hell we create through our thoughts for ourselves, is never been better visited by any other but D.the endless war we are in with ourselves, the fluctuations of our mind, the contradictions of our ideas and creation of ideals, the conflict of God or no God, the choice of being sinner or saint, is all in us, within us, and Dostoyevsky leaves nothing unsaid in telling the tale of who we are, and what we choose to hide, the characteristic quality of his prose is directness, he sometimes, undoubtedly descends to the elegant, but his element is great. He occasionally invests himself to an extent, but his natural port is human psychology.“Je pense, donc je suis, I know that for a fact, all the rest, all these worlds, God and even Satan—all that is not proved, to my mind. Does all that exist of itself, or is it only an emanation of myself, a logical development of my ego which alone has existed forever?” (p. 781)Brother Karamazov is not the tale to be taken as a chronicle of one family and parricide only, the murder is not a mystery here, neither is the murderer, it’s all known at the instant murder takes place, or even before, the plethora of themes and thoughts runs deep in the waters of this gigantic ocean that the volume is! We have in detail, the characters donned into garbs of confused expressions about other characters and on the brink of self-assessment and self-denial. And as the novel proceeds, there are peculiar ideas, echoing into the minds of characters, ideas get doubled or split into multiple strings as the tale follows, Dostoyevsky makes his characters suffer by their own doomed states, their own beings are their torture cells, no one escapes this suffering, no one!The question of individual identity mounts many a time in the story, as the devil visits Ivan or so he fancies; the boundaries of one soul and the influence of wishes thought to be unvoiced are questioned throughout the novel, the suppressed/unidentified wishes of one character are accomplished by the other, For instance, the relationship between Ivan and Smerdyakov, with Ivan apparently the stronger and more intelligent, and Smerdyakov the instrument of his will. Ivan’s unconscious wishes for his father’s death direct Smerdyakov, who communicates with the unconscious directly; Smerdyakov is, then, the master, the controller of fate simply because he is able to penetrate the barrier of consciousness that must conventionally deny evil impulses.We are quite restrained to admit the bastard smerdykov shrewder than Iven, he is cleverer and is more strategic with his nihilistic views, and the self-centered epileptic is astonishingly strongest of the characters, he proves through actions that “all the things are lawful”Ah! How cold he is to lay us stark naked before us, we’ve long known his brother Karamazov, we are them, if not wholly, but in parts, the impulsive, goodhearted Dimitri is recognizable to us like a closed kin,we know Ivan, the skeptic genius and we’ve been him too in our hearts, haunted by uncertainty, tormented by conscience....“Do you understand why this infamy must be and is permitted? Without it, I am told, man could not have existed on earth, for he could not have known good and evil. Why should he know that diabolical good and evil when it costs so much? Why, the whole world of knowledge is not worth that child’s prayer to ‘dear, kind God’!” (p. 287)
5467073352	“You wanted to regenerate another man within yourself by means of suffering; in my opinion, if only you will remember that other man all your life and wherever you may flee to- that will be enough for you.” Dostoyevsky successfully captivates a narrative of futility and resentment, while exploring the notion with beauty. To say a book with such gritty topics is bizarrely beautiful feels ironic, but the craft of this novel really generates a sense of emotion that I did not anticipate. From the depiction of religious and societal questioning, to the changeability of romantic and familial relationships- The Brothers Karamazov is a Journey, a long journey, but filled with the type of moral profundity that almost makes you forget that pages are passing by. Each character serves a purpose, each brother is a personality worth exploring, every chapter presents new questions, new answers. The ending, a minefield of conflicting emotion. This book is a long read, but entirely worth it.
3417108047	People of Goodreads, I don't get it. I don't share the excitement, not for the great Russian authors in general nor this title specifically. They tell me of its its great literary and historical importance and I guess I've got to respect that, but I don't feel the love.Sitting through page after page I got the feeling I was the victim of the world's longest "I told you that story so I could tell you this one" gag. I also had a strange sense of deja vu at times - a case has been made that every significant Western novel from 1880 on had some sort of germinating seed sown here. Any dialogue on the subject of morality, any debate on the goodness of God or the need for religion in modern times, any courtroom drama – they're all in development here, and reading this book later in my reading career is like visiting with old friends and having their mom pull out the embarassing photos of their awkward teen years.Really, what's so great about it? We've got some weighty philosophical questions to deal with, but they're handled so clunkily. I don't mind grappling with big ideas, but the presentation puts me off. Long-winded doesn't even begin to describe it! And I take issue wtih Dostoyevsky's habit of introducing a minor character then launching into a longish backstory about them. "We must pause to say a few words about..." or "I really must mention..." —no, really, you needn't and mustn't do anything seeing as how YOU're the author here and the one calling the shots. I don't need all this padding, just the primary story is enough, thanks.Oh, how I detest the dull formalities of high society, the blowhard dialogue, the pages and pages spent detailing bricks on walkways, print on wallpaper, buttons on overcoats. This maximal prose style wears me out and runs counter to something I love most in my literature, which is to say: brevity. Knock me out with a sentence or two, and spare me the exposition!Somewhere beneath the bulk is a slender novel a few hundred pages shorter that makes its points quicker and repeats itself less. I'd probably have liked to read that abridgement much more.3 stars. I made myself sit through to the end.
2870936617	رنج چیست؟ از رنج نمیترسم، حتی اگر بی کران باشد، حالا از آن نمی‌ترسیم؛قبلا میترسیدم. می دانی، حالا به قدری قدرت در من هست که می توانم برهمه چیز غلبه کنم، برهمه ی رنج ها، فقط اینک بگویم وهر لحظه به خودم بگویم:من هستم، درميان هزارعذاب_من هستم‌؛ پیچ وتاب خوران_زیرشکنجه _اماهستم.محبوس دربرجی،اماهنوز هستم. خورشید را می بینم واگر نبینم باز می دانم که هست وهمه ی زندگی اونجاست.بااینکه کتاب پرحجم وسنگینه من از خوندنش لذت بردم برعکس جنایت و مکافات که هیچ ازش نفهمیدم وبعد از این کتاب شاید برم بقیه ی آثار داستایفسکی رو بخونم 💖
4594137162	I wish I could give ten stars! This book was incredible. It is a mellodrama which concerns a murder in the family. We try to figure out the guilty one. The charictor development was masterful and the plot was awesome. The book was very long, but it did not lag at any point. Quite possable the best book I have ever experienced.I recommend it to all.
1003199786	“Above all, don't lie to yourself. The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love”--Father Zosima, to Fyodor Karamazov, a scoundrel and atheist who somewhat disingenuously asks of his son Alyosha’s spiritual mentor what it is he needs to transform his life.I have always said in bar or coffeeshop conversations about The Best Books of All Tme that the two best books I have ever read (for my tastes) were The Brothers Karamazov and Crime and Punishment. Great epic explorations of nineteenth century Russian society--politics, society and morality--and both are also great murder mysteries that help to complicate the social and cultural and moral issues Dostoevsky raises. I took the time to read and listen to this 750-page tome because I was sheltered at home and hoped he/it would help me take a broad look at my own time and place and inner life again. I took notes all along the way but cracked my laptop screen a couple days ago, lost several things including 3-4 ongoing reviews, including a review of this book, boo hoo, so am just writing this again, having taken roughly a month to finish the book. I will say that this particular edition of this book is a gift from perhaps the best (let’s say among the very best, more modestly?) translation team of our time, Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky.Dostoevsky spent nearly two years writing The Brothers Karamazov, which was published as a serial in 1879-1880. Dostoevsky died less than four months after its publication. He wrote it after he was released from six years of prison in which he made his most complete commitment to God after a lifetime of doubt and struggle (though if you are worried this is some kind of religious tract, relax, there is still a lot of anguish and struggle in it). What’s it “about”? Debates about God, doubt, free will, love, capital, inequity . . . and (there henceforth spoilers) patricide.Fyodor, Daddy K, is a wastrel, scoundrel, rake, philanderer. . . you get the picture. We are not rooting for him. One wife leaves and he neglects his son, another dies and he neglects the next son. He fathers a child with a disabled woman in the village, known as Stinking Lizaveta, ugh. (I mean he despicable, not her). We would not be unhappy to see him go. . and he does, but not for a long time in this story. He’s in love with Grushenka and in some dispute with his son Dmitri over money and his shared love/lust/jealousy about her.Dmitri is, like his father, a ladies man, a “sensualist” or hedonist, engaged to Katerina Ivanovna, but later in love with Grushenka. A trial ensues after his father is killed, and he is accused.Ivan is an intellectual, the most cynical of the three brothers, an atheist that battles his monk brother Alyosha over issues of faith; recites a poem/tale of The Grand Inquisitor that is seen as one of the great statements about faith and doubt ever written. Ivan, distressed about the massive suffering of the world, doubts that a benevolent God would allow it. He also seems to be in love with Dmitri’s betrothed, Katerina Ivanovna.Alyosha is the youngest brother, a novice monk who has left the lust and greed and cynicism of his family (which are some things Dostoevsky himself struggled lifelong with, and more). Called by the narrator as the “hero” of the novel, he is also named after Dostoevsky’s dead 3-year-old son, Alyosha. While the novel primarily moves forward through rich and entertaining dialogues on social issues and family, Alyosha speaks the least, and is potentially the least interesting in a way because he is just so. . . good, but the novel ends with him interacting with children in love, an image of hope and reconciliation. At one point he is briefly engaged to disabled neighborhood friend Lise. His spiritual father is Father Zosima, who gets to make some of the best defenses for faith in God; even if you are an atheist you might want to check out these speeches.Smerdyakov, an epileptic as was Dostoevsky, is the “illegitimate” son of Fyodor and Lizaveta. Maybe as grim and cynical as Ivan. His father hires him as a servant.I felt a kind of intellectual vindication of my feeling for the book when in grad school I read Mikhail Bakhtin’s assertion in The Dialogic Imagination that the novel was the best of all forms of writing for an exploration of the world. Not poetry, not debate/argument, but narrative. At its best, Bakhtin said, the novel could function as a kind of “cultural forum,” as opposed to some kind of didactic treatise. Bakhtin held up the Brothers K as the best example of this tendency in the best of novels, not a sermon with mere types of characters but a rich dialogue among very real and visceral human beings representing a range of human (and decidedly Russian) experience. Bakhtin thought the later Tolstoy, such as in Resurrection, created a kind of black and white, saints and sinners universe, not nearly as good an example of the novel’s possibilities as Brothers.In Brothers Dostoevsky has a credible atheist, a credible hedonist/sensualist, and a credible Christian, all three brothers making a kind of case for how one might live one’s life. Dostoevsky, a gambler, a heavy drinker, an intellectual, an epileptic, a passionate lover of women, a passionate and anguished believer and doubter of Christianity, isn’t writing a tract for faith but an exploration one can use to think about one’s own moral life.“And what's strange, what would be marvelous, is not that God should really exist; the marvel is that such an idea, the idea of the necessity of God, could enter the head of such a savage, vicious beast as man.”That murder and trial? As good a page turner as any murder mystery you’ll find. You just have to wait about half of the book to get to it. . . I am not sure if you can actually predict the verdict. I mean, Dmitri is found with blood on his clothes, had motive, was on the scene, was spending money drunkenly afterwards. . . So he did it, right? Maybe. A lot of people had reason to kill the old man.Some interesting things:*So, Father Zosima finally dies, but not before he makes a final sermon to those around him at the monastery. Whether or not you are a Christian, or even religious, this is a great and powerful speech. Then, almost as comic relief, we see that many people are disappointed to find that the body of this guy they think of as a saint actually decays. What, no resurrection?!“This is my last message to you: in sorrow, seek happiness.”*As the father of two boys with autism, I was especially anguished this time around about the chapter on Lizaveta, who roams the streets, with no verbal language (as is the case with one of my sons). Most people accept her, feed her, support her, but as now, not everyone. And she is pretty clearly raped by Fyodor, because we can’t assume consent.*One sort of feminist acknowledgement of patriarchy is that people of this time found a tendency in some women to largely go “bad” because of. . . men. These women were referred to as "shriekers," and if you saw the limitations many women faced in this time, you would shriek, too.*Early on I love the dialogues between the hedonist/wastrel/sensualist/sinner Fyodor and Father Zosima, who is the closest thing we have to a saint in any Dostoevsky story, though his follower Alyosha may just fill his shoes.*After all the anguish, I like the sweet simple image of love and faith that concludes the book, with Alyosha and some children.Some good and thoughtful quotes: “The mystery of human existence lies not in just staying alive, but in finding something to live for.”“I think the devil doesn't exist, but man has created him, he has created him in his own image and likeness.”“Man, do not pride yourself on your superiority to the animals, for they are without sin, while you, with all your greatness, you defile the earth wherever you appear and leave an ignoble trail behind you--and that is true, alas, for almost every one of us!”“If he's honest, he'll steal; if he's human, he'll murder; if he's faithful, he'll deceive.”“Everything passes, only truth remains.”The best book ever? For me it is.
2550519505	Rating this book is sort of ridiculous. It stands by itself as one of the greatest books of the western canon. Set in a small city somewhere in czarist Russia in the mid-19th century, Dostoevsky uses the Karamazov family to wrestle with the nature of good and evil, passion and love, faith and doubt, religion and atheism, intellect and kindness. Whether you can get through the 800 pages depends on your appetite for classic Russian sensibility, and I can understand that not everyone will be able to. But in a weird, wonderful, clever, fun, engaging and deeply moving story, no matter if we believe in God, Satan, socialism, humanism or anything else, Fyodor urges us that while we live we should try to be good, love, be kind, reach out to those around us and make connections. Soon enough we’ll be gone.
1257420351	از "قمارباز" خوشم نیومده بود و از داستایفسکی ناامید شده بودم، ولی برعکس بعد از خوندن این کتاب تازه فهمیدم که چه قلم قدرتمندی داره این مرد!توصیه می کنم بخونید این کتاب رو، بقدری غرق در کتاب میشید که اصلا حجم بالاش به چشم نمی یاد.
1343574583	“Until one has indeed become the brother of all, there will be no brotherhood.”What is it about snowy weekends that gives me the urge to dive into big, fat Russian novels? I definitely enjoy sipping hot chocolate and occasionally looking up from the book and out the window to look at the snow covering everything like a thick layer of icing – and then diving back into stories set in a similar landscape. The forecast called for thirty-five centimetres of snow, so I thought the timing was perfect to pull a Dostoyevsky off my shelf.I always thought the plot of “The Brothers Karamazov” sounded more interesting and layered than “Crime and Punishment” (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... I do have a weakness for dysfunctional family stories, inherited neuroses and sibling rivalries. And I was told by many avid readers of Russian literature that this was really the magnum opus of Dostoyevsky’s rather impressive catalogue – so I was excited about getting acquainted with Dimitri, Ivan and Alexei.“The Brothers Karamazov” is a little tough to summarize, but the broad strokes would be: three brothers reunite at their father’s house and try to sort out a family dispute involving a woman that both the father and eldest brother wish to marry, with dreadful though predictable results – which the second half of the book spends unravelling.If you are reading this for the “murder mystery”, forget it: you will probably lapse into a coma before you get to the conclusion of the intrigue, because while there is a murder, a trial and all that none of these things are the point that Dostoyevsky is working towards. If anything, those events are merely devices that give him a good reason to dwell on plenty of other topics: spiritual starvation, the characters’ incapacity to reconcile their ideals and their urges, the value of traditional morals in a country that’s rapidly modernizing, our relationship and duty to other humans.Given my taste for deranged characters, I am always in for a treat with Russian literature, because they certainly do not do their “bad guys” watered down: and yet, the great writers know that a bad guy has more going on under the surface. Dostoyevsky had a wonderful talent for peeling back layers and showing you his characters’ very marrow. Those three brothers are all detestable in their own unique way, but they are also strangely lovable. Most readers seem to get very annoyed with Alexei (Alyosha), but to be fair, his innocence got on my nerves a lot less than Ivan’s self-righteous restrain or Dmitri’s truly horrible decision-making. And Katerina, urgh, Katerina! Make up your mind, for all of our sakes! Grushenka is a strange and fascinating creature, seductive and manipulative, to be sure, but her instinct to destroy is shown to be an attempt that demanding payback from a world she feels has compromised her. Her “fall” gives her the great power of feeling no responsibility whatsoever for the consequences of her schemes – but how long can that immunity last? The memoirs of elder Zosima were a fascinating little interlude and had an earnestness and a beautiful humanity: I was surprised by how much enjoyed those few pages.As is the case with most classics written in the era, there are often long and rambling passages that while interesting, also weigh down the plot – literally and figuratively. Even if I agree with Ivan’s musings about religion having to be the result of direct experience, and not as something dictated by an organization, I thought that a 6-page paragraph on the topic was a bit long-winded. But those moments are more than made up for by the very modern psychological exploration of the relationship between father and sons, but also between brothers. None of three were really raised by Fyodor Pavlovich, but he remains a looming shadow of their lives, and his conduct bleeds a strange influence on theirs.Just like my experience of “War & Peace” (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), this was quite the immersive read, and I was happy to be snowed in and really indulge in it for a few days. It also almost ruined my wrists, because my edition of the Pevear-Volokhonsky translation is gigantic (this is another contender for a Kindle version when I’ll feel like re-reading it). Also, just like “War & Peace”, this novel is worth all the praise that’s been heaped on it. It’s a lot of work, and requires quiet and concentration, but it’s a very rewarding undertaking. It gets 4 stars instead of 5 simply because the first half sometimes felt like a chore, but as soon as I reached the midway point, it was quite a gripping read!
1818547715	واقعا نمی‌دانم این داستایوسکی کیست! یک نابغه‌ی داستان‌نویسی؟ یک فیلسوف اگزیستانسیالیست؟ یک دیوانه؟فقط این را می‌دانم که لذت خواندن رمان‌هایش را هیچ وقت فراموش نمی‌کنم. آن از "قمارباز" که تمام یک فرهنگ و گوهر یک قوم بزرگ را در گیرودار یک نوع قمار به نام رولت روایت می‌کند و تازه این همه‌ی ماجرا نیست و آن کنار آدم‌ها داستان خودشان را دارند و دور این میز رولت هر لحظه ممکن است معادلات تغییر کند و این دقیقا شبیه آدم‌های داستان است که هر لحظه ممکن است یک مسخره‌بازی از خودشان دربیاورند.جنایت و مکافات را هم که دارم میخوانم و بسیار از غرق شدن در مداقه های موشکافانه این نویسنده در شخصیت هایش لذت میبرم. شاید کامل ترین و روانکاوانه ترین نوع شخصیت پردازی را بشود در جهان داستایوسکی یافت.(view spoiler)["برادران کارامازوف" هم یک رمان به شدت فلسفی است که نیروهای بزرگ معنابخش به زندگی انسان در جسم این سه برادر تجسم می‌یابند و با هم به بحث و حتی جدل و حتی جنگ می‌پردازند. آلیوشا که مهم‌ترین نقش را بین آن‌ها دارد تجسم معصومیت و ایمان انسان دین دار و معتقد مسیحی ارتدوکس است که در برخورد با برادرانش روحش متلاطم میشود و به سمت پرتگاه میرود. دیمیتری تجسم عشق شهوت‌آلود و گناه رنگ است که حاضر است روح معشوقه‌ی خود را با خیانت و هرزگی آزرده کند. و ایوان هم تجسم انسان علم‌زده و علم‌گرای مدرن است که از سویی دیگر ایمان خود به غیب را از دست داده و به عشق هم ایمانی ندارد. خود فئودور کارامازوف هم که پدر این سه برادر عجیب است تجسم کامل "انسان دیوانه و طماع" است. طماع را تنها به معنی طمع پول نگیرید. درست ترش طمع زندگی است در همه جنبه‌های حیوانی آن. این معنا را ایوان به این شکل بیان میکند که " پدر قصد ندارد تا هفتاد سالگی از جام رو بگرداند، راستش در رویای رسیدن به هشتاد سالگی است، خودش این طور می‌گوید." (فئودور داستایوسکی، برادران کارامازوف، ص324) حال آن که در کتاب مقدس عمر انسان را هفتاد سال ذکر کرده‌اند.بالاخره این رمان نمی تواند این همه نیروی کنترل نشده را در خود تاب بیاورد و دیمیتری کارامازوف پدر خود را می کشد. ظاهر قضیه هم یک کشمکش عشقی و رقابت عجیب بین پدر و پسر بر سر زنی به نام گروشنکاست اما فکر میکنم جنبهء عینی و پلیسی قضیه کوچکترین بخش ماجراست و داستایوسکی با نوع داستان نویسی اش ما را مجبور میکند به جنبه های عمیق تر ماجرا فکر کنیم. به درون آدمها نفوذ کنیم و از روان و ایمان آدمها سوال کنیم.برادران کارامازوف و جنایت و مکافات هر دو حول و حوش یک قتل شکل میگیرند. در هر دو داستان مقتول شخصی است دنیاپرست و تهی از ارزشهای عالی انسانی اما حذف شدنش از دایره شخصیتها بر بدبختی بقیه می افزاید. کشمکش داستایوسکی به کشمکش نیچه یعنی انسان ذلیل نزدیک است. او هم به این فکر میکند که نکبت جامعه از وفور آدمهای ذلیل و حقیر نشات میگیرد اما این مسئله را نمیتواند حل کند که با این همه موجود حقیر چه باید کرد.فقط این را میداند که ذلتی بالاتر از ذلت آنها که با تنزه طلبی قصد دارند دامن از این معرکه برچینندوجود ندارد.بر اساس نظریه چندصدایی باختین این رمان نسبت به جنایت و مکافات اثری موفق تر است چون صدای دین صدای علم و صدای طمع را با وضوح بیشتری میشنویم. (hide spoiler)]---اسفند 96:📕هفتمین میزگرد از سری میزگردهای آزاد ادبی #بوطیقا در موسسه شهرستان ادب برگزار شد و علیرضا سمیعی، مجید اسطیری، محمدقائم خانی، نیلوفر شاهین نیا و بهاره ارشدریاحی پیرامون بررسی #برادران_کارامازوف نوشته‌ی #فئودور_داستایفسکی به بحث و گفت‌وگو پرداختند.خلاصه جلسه :✔️ #علیرضا_سمیعی : «داستایفسکی معتقد است در دورانی زندگی می‌کند که در همه‌ی آدم‌ها در بن‌بست اخلاقگرایی گیر افتاده‌اند. او فرد اخلاقگرا را در نقش ناجی مهم‌ترین متهم می‌داند. از دیدگاه او در این بن‌بست واقعی بازگشت به معنویت و دینداری تنها راه نجات آدم‌ها است.»✔️ #محمدقائم_خانی : «اگزیستانسیالیست‌ها معتقدند داستایفسکی آزادی را در بالاترین درجه‌اش پیگیری می‌کرد. او انگار دارد انسان‌ها را دعوت می‌کند که آزاد نباشند، که آزاد نبودن را انتخاب کنند، به خاطر خود آزادی. به این خاطر که از درون در بند چیزی نباشند.» ✔️#نیلوفر_شاهین_نیا : «به نظر من کل رمان «برادران کارامازوف» تجلی این جمله‌ی داستایفسکی است: "اگر خدا نباشد همه‌چیز مجاز است."»✔️ #مجید_اسطیری : «این رمان در ذهن من همیشه با طرح بزرگ‌ترین سوال‌هایی که تا به حال یک رمان توانسته برایم ایجاد کند خودش را تثبیت کرده است. مهم‌ترین سوال این است:"چرا انسان باید رنج بکشد؟"»goo.gl/69i7Yfبخوانید این بریده از کتاب ارزشمند مرحوم داریوش شایگان "آسیا در برابر غرب" را: غرایز آدمی بخودی خود معصومند، یعنی نه خوبند و نه بد. ولی آنگاه که به قالب ایدئولوژیهای افراطی و تعصب انگیز ریخته شوند و از حمایت عقل اقلیدسی و حسابگر و برنامه ریز برخوردار شوند، می توانند نیروهای هولناکی را که هیچ دیٌاری دیگر قادر به مهار کردنشان نیست، از هرسو رها کنند و شاید بهترین مصداق این ارتباط را می توان در رابطه «برادران کارامازوف» جستجو کرد، بخصوص در رابطه روشنفکر نیهیلیست (ایوان) و برادرش (اسمردیاکوف). قدرت مسحور کننده نیهیلیسم ایوان که منکر هر مرجعیت و ارزش والایی است، و در نتیجه، همه چیز را مجاز میداند موجب میشود که اسمردیاکوف، دست به قتل پدر بزند. اسمردیاکوف غریزه محض است که آلت دست یک ایده، یک ایدئولوژی میشود. تأثیر این ایده است که طبیعت غریزی او را به هولناکترین قتل ممکن وا می دارد.شایگان انگار که دارد میگوید داستایوسکی ظهور فاشیسم را پیش بینی کرده بود
5902056451	Written by Fyodor Dostoevsky and translated by David McDuff (at least my copy was), The Brothers Karamazov is one of the best books that I have read. Set in Russia a few years after the abolishment of serfdom, this book is a piece of realist philosophy in the guise of literature. Its main themes include theological apologetics, alongside critiques of psychological determinism. Such issues are allegorically intertwined with the complicated and ultimately murderous relationship between Fyodor Karamazov and his three sons--Alyosha, Ivan, Dimitri--and perhaps a fourth son--Pavel Smerdyakov. Dostoevsky delimits that having faith in God and an afterlife, one will lead a morally fulfilled and law-abiding existence because fearing God's retribution ensures compliance with social and legal codes. Conversely, lacking faith leads to lawlessness and nihilism since "everything is permitted." I disagree. One can be an atheist and not be a nihilist, as evinced by philosophies like existentialism and absurdism. Furthermore, actions stemming from fear or expectancy of reward are, in my opinion, morally dubious. One could alternatively follow humanism, which promotes leading an ethical life for the sake of improving the happiness of oneself and society.Dostoevsky argues that people are overburdened by free will. It enables freedom to sin and leads to existential questioning that undermines ones sanity. Instead, one would obtain greater freedom by embracing the bosom of God, which relieves one of these encumbrances. I again disagree. Constant questioning of extant paradigms is an essential part of the human condition. Moreover, I question the sanity of embracing a totalitarian ideology that has done much to limit human progress in science, philosophy, and society because such actions are perceived as blasphemous or sinful. Despite my disagreements, however, this book remains intellectually rigorous and is exhilarating to read.
571595466	Човекът и неговото скитане по друмищата на живота. Човекът, който плува в океана на собствената си вселена и може никога да не достигне бряг. Онзи човек, който сам не знае какво е скрито в душата му. Разбира се, че Достоевски е всемир. В „Братя Карамазови“ той не е намерил сили да пише за нещо по-малко от целия живот. В „Братя Карамазови“ тема няма. Нито сюжетна линия. Нито праволинейност, нито чиста фабула. Там има живец. Има вплитане, вкопчване, схватка на съдби, отзвук, рикоширане на думи и действия. В „Братя Карамазови“ има грозота, толкова много грозота. Но има и мигновено разпознаване на красивото, което те прави нещо повече от теб самия, нещо повече от човек (лирично отклонение: този мотив ме подсеща за шведския филм “Till det som är vackert”, незнайно защо преведен като „Обичана“). Роман, в който персонажите са птици, а битието им е клетка с невидими решетки и те се блъскат обезумели в незримите си чисто човешки ограничения, блъскат се до отмала и до кръв.„Защото тайната на човешкото битие не е само да се живее, а за какво да се живее. Без да си представя ясно за какво живее, човек няма да се съгласи да живее и по-скоро ще се самоизтреби, отколкото да остане на земята, ако ще наоколо му да е само хлябове.“В романа житейските позиции на братята Карамазови постепенно се раздиплят и всяка поглъща в собствения си въртоп. Отдаденият на бога Алексей, самият той подобен на ангел, в хармония със себе си и със света, безусловно следващ своя наставник. Безбожникът Иван, чието присъствие в целия роман е спорадично, но изключително силно. В „Бунтът“ Иван задава безмилостен ритъм с монолога си за съмнението в бог, за теодицеята и почти скверните описания на нещастията по света. Същата нощ, след прочита на тази глава, ми остана като прогорено зад очите „как селякът шиба коня с камшик по очите, „по кротките очи“ и детето, което „се удря с мъничкото си юмруче по измъчените гърдички и плаче с кървавите си незлобливи, кротки сълзици пред „боженцето“, да го защити“. Възглавницата ми е виждала и по-сухи и не толкова солени нощи. Впрочем ненапразно казвам, че Иван е безбожник, а не атеист, тъй като все още помня едно изказване на някогашната ми учителка по философия – че чисти „атеисти“ няма, има просто теисти, защото хората все в нещо вярват. Било то в някакъв бог, в прогреса или дори единствено в самите себе си. И третият брат, грешникът Дмитрий. Дмитрий не е нито боголюбив, нито ревностен отрицател. Той е най-ясният изразител на онези „карамазовски страсти“, които погубват. Той е събирателен образ на човека – без да е фанатик, има пламенни залитания към вяра и надежда, но има и моменти, в които екзистенциалните въпроси го вълнуват по-малко от една дума на любимата жена. Персонажът на Митя дава възможност за разгръщането на двата ярки и противопоставени женски образа – на жената изкусителка и строгата съдница. Въпреки че характерите на Аграфена и Катерина са привидно диаметрално срещуположни, Достоевски и тях е опръскал с мастилени капки дуализъм, защото само такива или онакива хора няма. Неми изрезки от чернобяла лента сме ние и през целия си живот опитваме да багрим душите си по някакъв свой вкус. За мен Дмитрий беше истинският протагонист в романа. Макар в началото да се твърди, че става въпрос за животоописание на пътя на Альоша, най-пълнокръвен и истински беше именно Митенка – с възторзите и паденията, с раздвоената си любов, с ненавистта към родителя, белязала живота му.В „Братя Карамазови“ освен големите мотиви за религията, невъзможната любов и престъплението (от любов) има още няколко микрокосмоса, чрез които успяваме да надзърнем в душите на персонажите. Живачно красиви и неуловими, непрестанно изменящи се. Като човеците. Като живота.
217033840	Brothers Karamazov is an exceptionally tricky and intricate book. It's also an exceptional pain in the ass. I might have to create a new shelf for it called "I'd Have To Read It Again To Get It But I'd Rather Just Not Get It." Tristram Shandy can join it there. The first problem is when a speech is so long that it reminds you of Atlas Shrugged. The second problem is that when I finished it just now, the words that unconsciously escaped my mouth were, "Well, fuck you Karamazov."Here's a game I made up during the interminable ramblings of Elder Zosima: Zosima or Baz? Guess whether each boring platitude below is from the Elder Zosima or Baz Luhrmann's 1998 novelty hit, "Everybody's Free (To Wear Sunscreen)": a. Don't be reckless with other peoples' hearts; don't put up with people who are reckless with yours.b. Keep company with yourself and look to yourself every day and hour, every minute.c. Enjoy the power and beauty of your youth.d. Cherish your ecstasy, however senseless it may seem.e. Love children especially.Answers at end of reviewOkay, I almost never had a good time reading this book. Why'd I give it four stars? One reason: cowardice.Listen, I know this book's smarter than me. Its inventiveness is impressive. Watch how careful Dostoevsky is with words: how each character, including the narrator, uses and misuses them, repeats them, throws them to each other. Check out how the stories - Ilyusha and Dmitri, Katya and Grushenka - intertwine. Feel how the word "Karamazovian" implants itself in you: you wouldn't be able to say what it means, maybe, I probably can't, but you'll know it when you see it from now on. Debate whether the whole thing is a comedy or a tragedy. Before I read them, I used to think Tolstoy and Dostoevsky were probably more or less the same, y'know? Like, old Russian guys who wrote crazy long books, how different can they be? But they're not the same at all. Tolstoy is exceptionally controlled. Dostoevsky is pure virtuosity. I don't mean to say he doesn't know what he's doing; actually, Karamazov is more tightly structured than War & Peace is. But the energy behind it is more or less insane. Four stars because I know this book is good; if I give it two stars, it would be like admitting that I let a brilliant masterpiece escape me for the prosaic reason that it's incredibly fucking boring. Y'know? Four stars, dude. A brilliant masterpiece.Introduction note: You can and should read the first section of Pevear & Volokhonsky's intro, up to p. xiv. It gives you great background. Get out quick after that though - right after "transforming them finally into a universal human drama" - 'cause they're gonna blow the whole plot in the next paragraph.I forget which brother is whichLiz M. said this and it's perfect:"Alyosha = superego or soul (youngest brother)Ivan = ego or head (middle brother)Dimitri = id or heart (eldest brother) "If you haven't read Dostoevsky before: Start with Crime and Punishment. It's a better read.Quiz Answers: Fuck you, Karamazov.
1362895058	‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این رمان در نوعِ خود بینظیر است و مقایسهٔ این رمان با رمان هایِ دیگر، بنظرم نادرست است.. این کتاب، اثریست ناب و بی نظیر که همه چیز را در خود جای داده است و نمیتوان شبیه به آن را یافت.. نوشتهٔ داستایوفسکی، اثری فلسفی، روانشناسانه، جامعه شناسانه و هنرمندانه میباشد... یاد زنده یاد <داستایوفسکی> گرامی باد----------------------------------------------‎عزیزانم، داستان در موردِ زندگی پُر چالش و ماجراجویانهٔ پیرمردی ثروتمند به نامِ <فئودور کارامازوف> میباشد که فرزندانش <آلیوشا>، <ایوان> ، <دیمتری> و <اسمردیاکوف> با رفتار و اخلاقِ پدر مخالف هستند و هریک به شیوه ای با پدر مخالفت میکند... بنظرم، چیزی که این داستان را خواندنی میکند، تفاوت هایِ رفتاری و اعتقادی و اخلاقیِ این برادرها با یکدیگر میباشد... زنده یاد داستایوفسکی به نوعی مهمترین مواردِ اخلاقی در انسانها را بینِ این برادران، تقسیم کرده است.... و امکان دارد هر خواننده ای، اخلاق و روشِ زندگیِ یکی از برادرها را برتر از برادرانِ دیگر بداند و بتواند با آن شخصیتِ موردِ نظر تا پایانِ داستان، ارتباط برقرار کرده و همزاد پنداری کند‎شخصیتی که بیش از سایرین، به چشم می آید، ایوان کاراموزوف است.. ایوان، انسانی خردگرا و تیزهوش است که به نوعی خویش را پایبندِ ذهنیتِ اقلیدسی میداند و شیفتهٔ اندیشهٔ ابعادِ سه گانهٔ اقلیدس میباشد.. شاید ایوان را در پایانِ داستان، دادگاهی و سرزنش کنیم، ولی از دیدگاهِ من، او هرچه میکند، بخاطرِ عشق به انسانیت است، درکل میتوان گفت که ایوان در اندیشهٔ رستگاریِ انسانهاست.. وقتی میبیند موجودی به نامِ خدا نمیتواند عدالت را بر رویِ زمین برپا کند، خود دست به کار میشود تا عدالت را اجرا کند... ایوان شخصیتِ دوست داشتی و خردمندِ این داستان است.. او خردگرایی را برمیگزیند و ایمان و موهوماتِ اینچنینی را پارادوکسال به شمار می آورد و آن را امیدی بیخردانه و کورکورانه میداند و دلش به حالِ کسانی میسوزد که خودشان را با واژهٔ موهومِ ایمان سرگرم کرده اند و واقعیتها را نمیبینند‎اسمردیاکوف، پسرِ کاراموزوف است، ولی از مادری که کلفتِ خانه بوده، زاده شده است .. پس او برادرِ ناتنیِ بچه هاست که در خانه همچون نوکر با او برخورد میکنند و مادرش بخاطرِ رفتارِ بدی که کارامازوف با وی داشته، دق کرده و میمیرد.. این موضوع سبب میشود تا از اسمردیاکوف بزرگ، کینهٔ زیادی در دل داشته باشد و نیاز به جرقه ای دارد تا از او انتقام بگیرد‎در میانِ برادران، الیوشا، در انزوا زندگی میکند و در کلیسا در حال راز و نیاز است، او قصد دارد تا پدر را از مرگ نجات داده و نگذارد تا برادرانش او را به قتل برسانند‎و اما برادری دیگر، یعنی دیمیتری، جوانی شهوت ران که به عواقبِ رفتارش فکر نمیکند و حاضر است به خاطرِ دختری به نامِ <گروشنا> رقیبِ عشقیِ خویش یعنی پدرش را از سرِ راه بردارد‎خلاصه آنکه پدر به قتل میرسد و شواهد نشان میدهد که دیمیتری این کار را کرده است و دادگاهی میشود، ولی حقیقت چیزِ دیگری میباشد..... بهتر است خودتان این داستانِ زیبا را بخوانید و از سرانجامِ آن آگاه شوید************************************‎ایوان: هر شرارتی که در جهان به پا میخیزد، از بشر سر میزند... مردم گاه از بی رحمیِ حیوانی سخن میگویند که این خود توهین به حیوانات است.. یک حیوان نمیتواند به اندازهٔ انسان بی رحم باشد، یعنی هنرمندانه بی رحم باشد... ببر و پلنگ، فقط شکار میکنند و میدوند. ولی هیچگاه به فکرشان نمیرسد که آدم را توسطِ گوشهایش به میخ بکشند!!.. حتی اگر قادر به این کار بودند‎این تورکها از شکنجه دادنِ کودکان بسیار لذت میبردند.. گاه جنینِ به دنیا نیامده را از رحمِ مادر بیرون می آوردند و آن را به هوا پرتاب میکردند و دوباره آن را با سرنیزهٔ خود میگرفتند و درست جلویِ چشمانِ مادرانشان این کار را انجام میدادند.. به خصوص جلویِ چشمِ مادران بود که مایهٔ لذت بسیار زیاد برایِ آنها میشد... فکر میکنم، اگر ابلیس وجود نداشت، انسان آن را به وجود می آورد و درست طبقِ تصویرِ خاصی که از خود دارد، ابلیس را میساخت************************************‎ایوان: تنها چیزی که میدانم این است که در این جهان، رنج و عذاب بسیار زیاد است و هیچکس هم گناهکار نیست.. این را خوب میدانم و به همین دلیل است که نمیتوانم زندگی کنم. چه فایده ای دارد دانستنِ اینکه کسی گناهکار نیست و معلول از پیِ علت می آید!؟ .. من خواهانِ عدالت هستم، وگرنه خویش را نابود میکنم.. نه آن عدالتِ موهوم در روزِ حساب و قیامت.. نه آن عدالتی که در زمان و مکانی بینهایت دور به وجود بیاید.. عدالت باید در اینجا و رویِ زمین اجرا شود و من بتوانم آن را ببینم************************************‎ایوان: کسی که کودکی را شکنجه میکند، باید تاوانِ اشکهایِ او را بدهد.. این رنج و محنتِ معصومانه را باید کسی جبران کند و کفاره اش را بپردازد، ولی این اتفاق نیافتاده است.. پس آن هماهنگیِ جاوید در ادیان یک دروغ است و وجود ندارد.. چگونه میخواهید رنج و ستمی که بر کودکان روا شده جبران کنید!؟؟ با سوختنِ ستمکار در جهنم؟؟؟ سوختنِ آنها چه ربطی به من دارد؟ اصلاً جهنمِ موهوم چه دردی را دوا میکند، وقتی آن کودکانِ معصوم چنین شکنجه هایی را تحمل میکنند؟ دیگر سوختنِ ستمکاران در جهنم چه فایده ای دارد!؟؟ حتی اگر جهنمی هم وجود داشته باشد‎«« وای بر کسی که به کودکان آسیب میرساند »» --------------------------------------------‎امیدوارم این ریویو در جهتِ آشنایی با این کتابِ بینظیر، کافی و مفید بوده باشه‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
3498466303	Ο απόλυτος μυθιστοριογράφος, μάστορας του λόγου και της γραφής, τεράστιος υπαρξιστής, ανελέητος αναζητητής της αλήθειας και των θεμελίων της ηθικής, ποιητής της ανθρώπινης τραγωδίας, παρατηρητής των ανθρώπινων μαρτυρίων και βασάνων. Προσδοκώντας τη λύτρωση, σκάβει τόσο βαθιά στην ανθρώπινη συνείδηση, που νιώθεις σχεδόν να σε πονάει. Παίρνει την ανθρώπινη ψυχή και ένα χειρουργικό νυστέρι και αρχίζει με απόλυτη μαεστρία να την τεμαχίζει, με αποτέλεσμα κάθε χαρακτήρας των έργων του να ενσαρκώνει και μια πτυχή του συνόλου του ανθρώπινου χαρακτήρα.Κανείς δεν μπορεί να είναι καθαρά και μόνο σαν τον εγκεφαλικό, απόλυτα ορθολογιστή, αρνητή κάθε συναισθήματος Ιβάν που κηρύττει την αρχή του ‘’όλα επιτρέπονται’’. Ή σαν τον άπληστο, φιλήδονο, γεμάτο από σαρκικούς πόθους στην πιο βρώμικη μορφή τους, Φιόντορ. Ή σαν τον Ντμίτρι που ενεργεί υπό το άλογο, μη ελεγχόμενο πάθος χωρίς να υπολογίζει καθόλου τις συνέπειες. Ή σαν τον συμπονετικό, γεμάτο κατανόηση και καλοσύνη Αλιόσα που προσκολλάται στις παραδόσεις και στο Θεό. Ή τέλος σαν το νόθο γιο Σμερντιακόφ που, διαστρεβλώνοντας τις μηδενιστικές ιδέες του Ιβάν, καταντάει ένας χυδαία αποκρουστικός και ποταπός χαρακτήρας. Αν όμως πάρεις σε διαφορετικές αναλογίες και δόσεις τα παραπάνω χαρακτηριστικά και τα αναμείξεις, τότε ναι δημιουργείς έναν σφαιρικό ανθρώπινο χαρακτήρα, με τα καλά και τα κακά του χαρακτηριστικά, τα οποία προβάλλουν περισσότερο ή λιγότερο ανάλογα με τις εκάστοτε συνθήκες. Όποιος έχει τον Ντοστογιέφσκι στο μυαλό του σαν έναν τυφλό ακόλουθο του ορθόδοξου χριστιανισμού κάνει μεγάλο λάθος. Ο Ντοστογιέφσκι πιστεύει στο Θεό ναι, αλλά πιστεύει αναρχικά και ιδιότυπα. Τα έργα του διαπνέει όχι η δογματική θρησκευτικότητα μα η βαθιά πνευματικότητα. Τρανή απόδειξη το βαθιά αντικληρικαλιστικό κεφάλαιο του Μέγα Ιεροεξεταστή, στο οποίο παθιασμένα υποστηρίζει ότι ο άνθρωπος δεν έχει ανάγκη από διαμεσολαβητές στη σχέση του με το Θεό. Είναι μια σχέση βαθιά προσωπική και εσωτερική και οι μεσάζοντες περιττεύουν. Πρώτη φορά ο Χριστός υμνήθηκε μέσα από τη σφοδρή κριτική στο πρόσωπο του. Ένα κεφάλαιο που αποτελεί ταυτόχρονα κραυγή και ωδή της ελεύθερης βούλησης. Αδυνατώ να σχολιάσω οτιδήποτε παραπάνω για το κεφάλαιο αυτό. Είμαι πολύ μικρή σε όλους τους τομείς για να κάνω κάτι τέτοιο. Αρκούμαι στο να διαβάζω εκστασιασμένη ξανά και ξανά τις εκατό εκείνες σελίδες και να αφήνομαι να με συνταράσσουν οι Μεγάλες Ιδέες των Μεγάλων Ανθρώπων. Όλη αυτήν την τεράστια ουσία την ξετυλίγει μέσα από ένα δικαστικό δράμα και ομολογώ ότι από τα πιο αγαπημένα μου σημεία ήταν η δίκη στο τέλος του βιβλίου. Ακούς τα ίδια γεγονότα από διαφορετική σκοπιά (αυτή του συνηγόρου και του κατήγορου) και από διαφορετική ψυχολογική προσέγγιση. Επίσης μου άρεσε πολύ και το ελπιδοφόρο τέλος! Το ίδιο ελπιδοφόρο όπως και στο ‘Έγκλημα και Τιμωρία. Μια ελπίδα, μια προσμονή για όποιον το επιθυμεί...
7298375558	Dostoevsky is a remarkable psychologist: every character in The Brothers Karamazov is depicted with such depth that they feel alive. Ivan, Alyosha, and Dmitry — the three brothers — embody different facets of human nature, from cold rationality to sincere faith and wild passion. Through their stories, Dostoevsky explores timeless questions about good and evil, faith and doubt, freedom and responsibility.In addition, I would highlight a character like Smerdyakov — he is truly complex and provocative. Smerdyakov not only intrigues with his darkness but also evokes discomfort with his passive cruelty and slavish dependence on circumstances. To me, he represents that part of human nature we sometimes fear to confront: weakness bordering on cunning and the inability to take responsibility for one’s actions.Women in The Brothers Karamazov play a limited but significant role. They primarily symbolize passion, temptation, and moral trials for the male characters.I enjoyed The Brothers Karamazov more than The Idiot, though both are significant for their character exploration. In The Brothers Karamazov, Dostoevsky crafted a more balanced set of characters, despite most being unlikable. The addition of mystery, suspense, plot twists, and courtroom drama made it a more engaging and realistic story. Although, overall, I would consider this novel a fundamental philosophical work.
4233507105	I don’t know how to explain what I just read but let me tell you, it was a JOURNEY. Incredible.
4758126678	روايه الشخصيات المتناقضهصراعات داخل العيله الأب هو فيودور كارمازوف والي يعد واحد من أحقر الشخصيات في جميع ما قريت من روايات الإبن الأكبر ما يختلفش كتير عن أبوه وإبن تاني مثقف وملحد والثالث متدين وإبن رابع ما يظهرش دوره في الروايه إلا في الآخرعلاقات حب متشابكه ومعقده مقتل شخص داخل العيله ومحاوله الكشف عن القاتلروايه استثنائيه للعبقري ديستوفيسكي
714327135	لما سيجموند فرويد يصف عمل روائي بأنه الأعظم على الأطلاق فمن الأكيد ان هذاالعمل به ما يميزه وعندما تقرأ انت هذا العمل وتنبهر به اذا ففرويد لم يكن مخطأوعندما تطلق انت حكم مطلق بأن ديستويفسكى هو افضل من تحدث عن النفس البشريه وقدمها فى الأدب فغالبا لك كل العذر فى ذلك من الاعمال القليله التى تترك أثرًا جليًا على نظرتك فى الحياة وكم فى مجتمعنا من مدعى طهارة وشرف وهو فى الحقيقه مجرم أثيم وكم من مذنب ظاهرى وهو ضحية اجرام مدعى الطهارةوكم من اب آثم فى حق ابناءه وابناء عاقين لأبيهمولكن ان تقدم لك هذه العلاقات فى صورة ادبيه بليغه فهو النادر فعلاعمر الفكرة ما كانت في مجرد إخوة مشتتين وأب ظالم وعاهرة تلقي بظلالها الآثمة ولا أنثى بريئة فسدتها الحياة،ولا حتى مجتمع شرّحه دستويفسكي بمشرط طبيب، بل الفكرة كلها تتمحور حول براءة الإنسان وإلى أي حد نتقبله على ما هو عليه،وأين المجرم، هلى المجرم مجرد المنفذ(من يقتل ،من يسرق،من يطلق النار،من يفسد)أم أن المجرم دائما ما يقف خلف الستارة بعد أن يٌلقي بذور الشر ليحصدها هو وهو بمنأى عن الأذى؟
5335636100	"My brothers are destroying themselves," he went on, "my father too. And they are destroying others with them. It's 'the primitive force of the Karamazovs,' as Father Païssy said the other day, a crude, unbridled, earthly force. Does the spirit of God move above that force? Even that I don't know. I only know that I, too, am a Karamazov..." Initial Thoughts Reading Dostoevsky is a bit of a landmark in anyone's reading career and when I was given the challenge to read something outside of my comfort zone it looked like the perfect time in my life for some classic Russian literature. But which novel should I choose? The obvious answer would have been his most famous work, Crime and Punishment, but after doing a bit of digging around I discovered many consider his final novel, The Brothers Karamazov, not only his personal best but also the greatest book ever written. On that basis I decided to give this beast of a novel a whirl. Yes it's worth noting before you start that this book is huge and a big commitment. It's divided into four parts, each of which is broken down into a further four "books" each containing eight to ten chapters. And yes the text is dense. I'm not sure if that's a feature of Dostoevsky work yet, but I'm assuming it is. But as they say if you want to reap the rewards you go to put that effort in. Wish me luck. "In the town I was in, there were no such back-alleys in the literal sense, but morally they were. If you were like me, you'd know what that means." The Story Although the work is complex, the tale itself is a pretty simple one. Parricide is the order of the day as it centres around the murder of one of the most vile and despicable father's in history. An absolute devil who funnily enough goes by the name of Fyodor. Although he is great at making money, he is good for absolutely nothing else and lives a life of debauchery and sin. Something we all aspire to!He has three sons, who couldn't be more different. There's the emotional and passionate Dmitri, the calm and rational atheist Ivan and the spiritual and kindhearted Alyosha. There also may be the possibility of a fourth, illegitimate son who goes by the name of Smerdyakov. It's the eldest, Dmitri, that Fyodor is in conflict with as they are both infatuated with the same woman. The bewitching but slightly crazy Grushenka. This is despite the son being married to the beautiful Katerina Ivanovna. There's nothing more complicated than family but this is taking it to another level.The first half of the novel is spent getting acquainted with the characters and the latter turns into a murder mystery of sorts. There's a lot of sub plots on the go, which all interconnect, but if you think I'm going to tell you all about them then you got another thing coming. Dostoyevsky does a far better job of that than I ever will. The Writing When someone says a book is dense this is what they're talking about. There is a lot going on and you need to give it your full attention. The story contains a lot of dialogue that gets deeply philosophical. Dostoyevsky's understanding of society and human psychology is at genius level and the way he incorporated it into the narrative is quite breathtaking.The main plot is definitely an engaging one but this is certainly not a plot-driven narrative. The story itself is a vehicle used to explore a range of ideas through the exploration of characters and this is interspersed with moments of extreme drama that was greatly entertaining. The way it's done is so thought provoking and you really need to pay attention to what you're reading. Almost every passage has meaning, blink and you could miss something life changing.But there are a couple of unusual aspects that caught me by surprise. For one, the majority of the main characters have two names and this is not made clear at the onset and it took me a little while to catch on. For instance, Grushenka also goes by the name of Agrafena Alexdrovna and Alyosha by Alexei.Then the dialogue is interspersed with French and Polish (I think) dialogue with no explanation. My advice is just to keep reading and it doesn't really have an impact. "The man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to such a pass that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so looses respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceases to love, and in order to occupy and distract himself without love he gives way to passions and coarse pleasures, and sinks to bestiality and vices, all from continual lying to other men and to himself." The Characters This is the moment I've been waiting for. If you love character development like I do, the The Brothers Karamazov is the book for you. The author's style is to concentrate on his fantastic array of characters and their response to stressful situations and interactions with one another. And he really is a master of this like no other.Dostoyevsky goes so deeply into their lives, their sense of motality and the way they think and view the world that they really do become living, breathing entities. Over the course of the novel, which lasted me almost two weeks I really felt like part of their lives. Perhaps the most scary thing was I began to see myself in some of them despite the majority being pretty awful people. By the second part of the novel I felt that I knew each character so well that I was invested in their circumstances and plight. It's so well done and perhaps the best character development I've come across in my pretty limited reading career.The focus of the story is of course the three Brothers Karamazov and as I've already said they are drastically different. Each is used to portray a different outlook on life and morality. Alyosha is the deeply religious one who is the most virtuous, whereas as Ivan is the most intellectual and logical but chooses not to believe in God. Then there's Dimitri who is wild, emotional and impulsive. The distinction is deliberate, and it's up to you in the way you interpret it's meaning, but what is truly impressive is that the author argues both sides so convincingly you would never know, which side he falls on. For instance, Ivan's argument that God doesn't exist is far more convincing and this is recognised by Alyosha. But, how far does that being right get Ivan as he is far less happy and is certainly not the better man?And while we're on the subject of Alyosha, he was probably my favourite character in the story. The only one who could be termed heroic. After finishing I found that Dostoyevsky's own son died while he was writing this novel and he named this character in honour of him. Some of the moments featuring Alyosha and centering around the meaning of being a father are so emotionally charged you can feel the impact that this event had on the author imbued in the words. Final Thoughts So I began this review by saying many regard this as the greatest novel ever written. I certainly wouldn't argue with anyone who said this. It's a tremendous literary achievement and I got more out of this that any other novel I've read. But so I should based on the bloody size of it. Almost as big as this review!I was expecting it to be a really tough read and had a couple of short stories on standby in case I needed a break. But I didn't need them. From the very first page I was hooked till the moment I put it down. A book that's consumed my thoughts almost entirely during my reading and for a long time afterward. An absolute masterpiece!It's a book that reminds me of how I have changed as a person. In my youth I'd have found this too slow and boring, lacking the patience to persevere. But now I appreciate the depth and beauty in the writing and the ideas within.So my first book by Fyodor Dostoevsky but certainly not my last. I'm already lining up Crime and Punishment. I'm starting to feel like a whole new world has opened up to me. The power of reading!Thanks for reading and...Na Zdorovie!Genius... Fyodor Dostoevsky
3866591476	Março, o mês do meu aniversário, foi o mês que escolhi para reler aquele que considero um dos livros da minha vida. O livro acompanhou-me durante todo o mês e foi uma experiência incrível reler e perceber certos pormenores que me tinham escapado na primeira leitura. O que me encanta em Dostoievski é como ele consegue explorar as características e traços de personalidade tão peculiares de cada personagem e desenvolver isso de uma forma que parece bastante simples. Ivan, Aliocha, Dmitri, Smerkadiov todos tem uma forma de falar diferente e Dosto consegue transmitir isso de uma maneira genial.As personagens são imensas e ainda assim Dostoievski não se perde na maneira de falar, a linha de raciocínio e os conflitos internos de cada um. As personagens são tão complexas que dava perfeitamente para falar sobre cada personagem de forma profunda.Na minha primeira leitura, a minha personagem favorita tinha sido o Aliocha (coitado, sempre no meio da discussão a tentar apaziguar), mas desta vez rendi-me ao Ivan, o "Hamlet russo". Gruschenka normalmente é desvalorizada, mas para mim é das personagens mais importantes de todo o livro. Exerce uma influência muito grande tanto no pai quanto nos filhosO livro tem várias discussões sobre religião e a existência de Deus e um dos capítulos mais famosos da literatura - "O Grande Inquisidor" - versa precisamente sobre estes temas de uma forma absolutamente genial.Aliocha é monge e uma representação do ser humano perfeito, que trata as pessoas bem, é respeitoso e é o grande mediador do romance (coitado, sempre que havia problemas, lá estava o pobre Aliocha no meio). Já Ivan é um ateu declarado e um existencialista. Num mundo de tanto sofrimento, onde as crianças sofrem, não faz sentido que exista um Deus.Um dos grandes temas do livro é a escolha entre o bem e o mal e a presença da maldade na vida do ser humano. Ivan tem muita consciência da maldade e sabe que o ser humano podendo escolher entre o bem e o mal, se Deus não existe, vai ser muito difícil para o homem escolher o bem.Se Deus não existe, isso não quer dizer que tudo é permitido? Hoje em dia, acreditamos que o ser humano tem a capacidade de construir os seus próprios valores de forma livre, sem depender de alguma moral que coincida com a existência de um Deus. Mas na época de Dostoievski, igreja e estado coexistiam, havia até alguma confusão entre o papel de ambos (o estado estava dentro da religião e vice-versa) e, por isso, estas eram questões muito importantes. Ainda hoje o são, se substituirmos Deus por qualquer outra coisa superior ao ser humano. Apesar de Dostoievski procurar sempre a redenção das suas personagens, a escolha do Cristianismo pelo bem, n'Os Irmãos Karamazov é demonstrado que a maldade está sempre presente no ser humano. Não conseguimos fugir das nossas paixões e dos nossos vícios. A escolha pelo bem e o caminho da redenção é uma das questões abordadas no livro.O romance trata de questões sócio-económicas, filosóficas, psicológicas, religiosas e até jurídicas. Dostoievski cria situações para discutir tudo isto e de forma bem profunda (não é à toa que o livro tem quase 800 páginas)Do ponto de vista da psicanálise, este livro é riquíssimo. Os Irmãos Karamazov tem umas quantas personagens desvairadas, quase todos são completos loucos e ainda tem um dos piores pais da literatura. Dostoievski rejeitava profundamente o Cristianismo da Igreja Católica, que corrompeu os ensinamentos de Cristo e acreditava que a Rússia e a Igreja Ortodoxa Russa tinham um papel muito importante no resgate do verdadeiro Cristianismo.Este não é um livro feliz (o facto de ser o meu livro favorito da vida diz alguma coisa sobre mim?). Um livro que envolve questões existencialistas, a vida, a morte, a liberdade, o declínio da sociedade e do indivíduo, que trata de questões sócio-económicas, filosóficas, psicológicas, religiosas e até jurídicas é obviamente um livro denso. Mas também é um livro que nos impacta como nenhum outro, um romance que é, ao fim e ao cabo, um tratado sobre a alma humana. Já não me lembrava que o final era assim um tanto ao pouco decepcionante. Terminei o livro e disse para mim mesma: "mas isto acaba assim? Então e o que é que aconteceu aos outros? E o Ivan, onde está o Ivan???", mas depois de saber que Dostoievski planeava escrever uma continuação e que morreu ainda antes de a conseguir... não é um final que estraga o livro, nada disso.
3567711648	به نام اوزنده‌باد داستایفسکی! آخرین عبارت از آخرین رمانِ منتشر شدة فیودور داستایفسکی این است:‌ «زنده‌باد کارامازُف!»و حالا برایِ تکریمش و به مناسبتِ اینکه آخرین رمانش را برای اولین‌بار و به عنوان آخرین شاهکاری که باید از او می‌خواندم تا کهکشان داستایفسکی‌خوانیم تکمیل شود، خواندم. با شور و شعف هرچه تمام می‌گویم: «زنده‌باد داستایفسکی!»زنده‌باد نویسنده بزرگی که اگر نبود نه تنها بسیاری از رمانهای ماندگار ادبیات، بلکه بسیاری از شخصیتهای ادبی که به ظاهر خیالی‌اند ولی در اصل موجودیت دارند و مانا خواهند ماند، نیز نبودند و چه تاسف‌آور می‌بود اگر راسکلنیکف، سونیا، پرنس میشیکین، راگوژین، اسماردیاکف، ایوان کارامازُف و تعدادی دیگر از ستارگان کهکشان داستایفسکی خلق نمی‌شدند و در میان ما نفس نمی‌کشیدند.به نظر بنده دو نوع داستان داریم، یک داستان‌های روایت‌محور و دیگری داستان‌‌های شخصیت‌محور. برای نویسندگان دسته اول، داستان و بستر روایی ،اهمیت بسیار بالایی دارد چنین نویسندگانی روایت و گره‌های روایی را طراحی می‌کنند و شخصیتها را در دل این روایت قرار می‌دهند. اغلب نویسنده‌ها چنین تکنیکی استفاده می‌کنند به عبارتی آنها افراد عادی را در بستری غیرعادی قرار می‌دهند. در این شیوه هرنویسنده به فراخور استعدادش موفق است به نظر من لف تالستوی استاد و سرآمد نویسندگان این شیوه است و به قولی مو لای درز داستانها و منطق روای‌اش نمی‌رود. در مقابل، نویسندگانی هستند که شخصیت‌پردازی را بر روایت ارجح می‌دانند من به شخصه نویسندگان کمی را می‌شناسم که به این شیوه قلم زده و می‌زنند. چنین کسانی شخصیتهای غیرعادی را در بستری عادی قرار می‌دهند و این افراد غیرعادی موتور محرکه داستانهایشان هستند، اگر افرادی پیدا شوند و با من اختلاف نظر داشته باشند و نپذیرند که تالستوی سرآمد نویسندگان دسته اول است ولی مطمئنا در اینکه فیودور داستایفسکی بزرگ و به نوعی پادشاه بلامنازع شیوه دوم است با من هم‌نظر هستند.و اصلا به همین‌خاطر است که بسیاری از منتقدان ادبی ایرادات اساسی و غالبا به‌جایی بر رمان‌های داستایفسکی و خط روایی‌اش می‌گیرند داستایفسکی حتی در شاهکارهایش هم در بعضی مواقع بسیار سهل‌انگارانه عمل می‌کند ولی در عین حال چنان شخصیتهای جذاب و بی‌بدیلی خلق می‌کند که بسیاری از مخاطبان یا آن خلل‌ها را نمی‌بینند و یا به راحتی از کنار آنها می‌گذرند و این است جادوی داستایفسکی.و دیگر اینکه به همین دلیل است که ادبا و نویسندگان بزرگ طرفِ تالستوی را می‌گیرند و فیلسوفان و روانشناسان شاخص جانبِ داستایفسکی را.و اما من که به فرم علاقمندم (و در گوشی به شما می‌گویم جزو گروه اولم) اگر بخواهم از میان آثار داستایفسکی اثری را به عنوان بهترین اثر انتخاب کنم مطمئناً جنایت و مکافات را انتخاب می‌کنم، به این دلیل که این رمان در عین اینکه یکی از شاهکارهای اوست ساختمندترین آنها نیز هست تا پیش از خواندن برادران کارامازُف هم انتخابم همین بود ولی گمان می‌کردم ممکن است بعد از خواندن آن نظرم تغییر کند ولی چنین نشد باز هم جنایت و مکافات انتخاب من است. ولی باید بگویم که اگر از من بخواهند داستایفسکی‌وارترین رمان داستایفسکی را انتخاب کنم، مطمئنا این کتاب برادران کارامازُف خواهد بود. این رمان به نوعی کمال شیوه این نویسنده بزرگ است و به خوبی تمام جنبه‌های کارنامه هنری او را نشان می‌دهد هم امتیازاتی که برای او برمی‌شمرند و هم نقایصش را.به عنوان مثال از لحاظ روایی صد صفحه این رمان به راحتی قابل حذف است و خللی به داستان وارد نمی‌کند (هرچند خیلی‌ها خصوصاً عشاق سینه‌چاک فلسفه و روان شناسی این نظر را برنمی‌تابند) ولی با این حال این رمان فرازهایی دارد که به نظر من هیچ‌کس به غیر از داستایفسکی توانایی نوشتن آنها را ندارد و اصلاً ورای استعداد هر نویسنده‌ایست مثلا فصل مفتشِ اعظم و فصل دیدار ایوان با شیطان.به هر رو اگر داستایفسکی‌بازید و برادران کارامازُف را نخوانده‌اید بدانید که خودتان را از خواندن مهمترین اثرش محروم کرده‌اید. البته من یک دلیل داشتم برای نخواندن و آن اینکه ترجمه خوبی از آن در بازار نبود، ترجمه صالح حسینی که اصلا خوب نیست و ترجمه احد علیقلیان نیز به مانند اغلب کارهایش بی‌روح و مکانیکی بود و من نخواندم نخواندم تا اینکه ترجمه اصغر رستگار بیرون آمد و واقعا چقدر خوب که اینقدر صبر کردم چرا که ترجمه رستگار با فاصله بعیدی بهتر از آن دو است. امتیاز دیگری که ترجمه رستگار –علاوه بر نثر بسیار خواندنی‌اش- دارد. پانوشتهای آن است. رستگار که خود کتاب مقدس را پیش از این ترجمه کرده‌است، تمام ارجاعات متن به کتاب مقدس و همچنین اطلاعات تکمیلی دیگر را در قالب پانوشت در انتهای هر فصل آورده است. این ترجمه اینقدر خوب است که اگر پیش از این برادران کارامازُف را با ترجمه دیگری خوانده‌اید پیشنهاد می‌کنم این‌یکی را نیز بخوانید. تنها خرده‌ای که بر این ترجمه می‌توان گرفت افراط رستگار در اعراب‌گذاری‌ها و برخی ابداعات نه‌چندان مناسبش در زمینه رسم‌الخط است و دیگر هیچ.در آخر اینکه برای مقایسه بخشی از فصل «مفتش اعظم» را با این سه ترجمه در انتهای این یادداشت آورده‌ام:«"انصاف بده حق به جانب که بود- تو یا آن‌که از تو پرسش کرد؟ نخستین پرسش را به یاد بیاور، مفاد آن -هرچند نه عین واژه‌ها- چنین بود: "تو به دنیا می‌روی، و با دست تهی می‌روی، با وعدة آزادی، که انسانها در سادگی و تمرّد ذاتیشان حتی نمی‌توانند به آن پی ببرند، از آن می‌ترسند و وحشت می‌کنند –چون تاکنون برای انسان و جامعة انسانی هیچ‌چیز تحمل‌ناپذیرتر از آزادی نبوده است. اما این سنگها را در بیابان ترک‌خورده و بی‌حاصل می‌بینی؟ آنها را به نان بدل کن و آدمیان چون گلّه، سپاسگزار و فرمانبردار، سر در پی تو خواهند گذاشت، هرچند تا ابد می‌لرزند که مبادا دست خود را پس بکشی و نانت را از آنان دریغ کنی"»ترجمه صالح حسینی«"خودت قضاوت کن حق با که بود: تو یا کسی که آن‌گاه از تو پرسید؟ پرسش نخست را به یاد بیاور؛ معنایش، هرچند نه عین کلماتش، این بود: «می‌خواهی به دنیا بروی، و داری تهی‌دست می‌روی، با وعده‌ی آزادی که آن‌ها به سبب سادگی و بی‌قانونی ذاتی‌شان نمی‌توانند حتی درکش کنند، از آن در هول و هراسند –چون برای انسان و جامعه‌ی انسانی هرگز چیزی تحمل‌ناپذیرتر از آزادی نبوده است! اما آیا این سنگ‌ها را در این بیابان لخت تفته می‌بینی؟ آن‌ها را به نان مبدل کن و انسان‌ها همچون گوسفند از پی تو خواهند دوید، سپاسگزار و فرمانبردار، گرچه تا ابد لرزان که مبادا دستت را پس بکشی و نان تو دیر به آنان نرسد.»ترجمه احد علیقلیان«"خودت کلاهت را قاضی کن ببین حق با تو بوده یا با آن روحی که می‌خواست وسوسه‌اَت کند. وسوسه‌یِ اول را یادت بیار، عینِ جمله‌اَش را نمی‌گویم، مفهومش را می‌گویم: وسوسه‌یِ اول را یادت بیار، عینِ جمله‌اَش را نمی‌گویم، مفهومش را می‌گویم: وسوسه‌گر به تو می‌گوید: "تو می‌خواهی بروی سراغِ اهل دنیا ولی با دستِ خالی، با یک وعده‌یِ گنگ و مبهم، با وعده‌یِ آزادی، وعده‌یی که آدم‌ها چون نادانند، چون ذاتاً مسئولیت‌پذیر نیستند، نمی‌توانند درست درکش کنند چون وعده‌یی است که آدم‌ها را به وحشت می‌اندازد و مرعوب می‌کند؛ چون برایِ بشر و جامعه‌یِ بشری هیچ‌چیز طاقت‌فرساتر از آزادی نیست!"وسوسه‌گر به تو می‌گوید: "این سنگ‌ها را در این بیابانِ برهوت ببین. اینها را تبدیل کن به نان، آن‌وقت می‌بینی که بشریت، عینِ یک گله‌یِ حق‌شناس و مطیع، دنبالت افتاده، ولو این که دائم بترسند از این که دستت را پس بکشی و دیگر نانی تویِ دامن‌شان نگذاری."»ترجمه اصغر رستگار
628737038	Rosewater said an interesting thing to Billy one time about a book that wasn’t science fiction. He said that everything there was to know about life was in The Brothers Karamazov, by Feodor Dostoevsky. ‘But that isn’t enough anymore,’ said Rosewater.—Kurt Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse-FiveI’m not sure I’m aware of any quote about a book that sums it up more perfectly than that one. This book is vast. Not in terms of plot (the actions takes place over a few days), but in terms of ambition. When I put it down, and give it thought, I am hard pressed to think of a single aspect of human life that Dostoyevsky does not incorporate into this grand work. Religion, sensuality, money, politics, love, education, crime, morality, history, science—all are touched on and woven into one whole fabric. And behind all of this is one fundamental question of the novel: what gives life meaning? To explore this question, Dostoyevsky creates personifications of certain philosophies, and pits them against one another. We have Rakitin’s socialism, Ivan’s rationalism, Fyodor’s sensualism, Dmitri’s romanticism, Katerina’s pride, Smerdyakov’s nihilism, and Alyosha’s piety. Each derive meaning from something fundamentally incompatible, but each are forced into each other’s lives by one single momentous, mysterious event. This event puts each of these characters through a singular ordeal, and the outcome is the moral of the story. I must say at this point that, if there was one aspect of the human soul that was completely alien to Dostoyevsky’s mind, it was apathy. For him, the question “what gives life meaning?” was so fundamental and so urgent that he required an answer at all costs, even if that answer was suicide. But the answer most people give to that question, I suspect, is simply to stop asking it. This gives his novels that characteristic Dostoyevskian insistence. Every character is animated by some idea, and the voyage of their lives is the development, examination, or possible refutation of that idea. This is why I agree so strongly with that quote by Vonnegut, because our current intellectual climate is characterized by the disappearance of the question, rather than any definite answer. We did not respond the mystery of the meaning of life by substituting a social utopia or heaven-on-earth for God—now the very question “what is the meaning of life?” seems almost silly. Perhaps this is why we need people like Vonnegut. Let me get back to the novel. If we are to regard Nietzsche (and justly so) as an intellectual prophet, who foresaw the great, defining struggle of Western thought, and inspired some of the 20th century’s greatest works—if we, I repeat, are to give Nietzsche his due, then how should we regard Dostoyevsky? However great Freud’s debt may have been to Nietzsche, Nietzsche’s debt to Dostoyevsky is surely greater. Here, in this book, are the exact same conflicts portrayed by the German thinker, with the same predictions of an imminent crisis of faith. Both responded to and rejected Marx (at least indirectly). Marx attempted to replace the second coming with the proletariat revolution, and to offer a future communist paradise as a substitute for heaven. But both Dostoyevsky and Nietzsche believed that this is merely to sidestep the issue, that transforming humanity’s external surroundings would leave the most pressing question entirely untouched—why live in the first place? The great difference between the two men was that Dostoyevsky believed that the only salvation laid in a return to Christ, whereas Nietzsche saw that morals were to change, and new values had to be posited. I’m afraid that I’m rambling now. Anyone that attempts to encompass Dostoyevsky’s vast mind is sure to fail. It is like throwing pebbles down the Grand Canyon. The Brothers Karamazov, whatever philosophical themes it contains, is a story, and a damned good story. And perhaps that’s the most impressive thing about it: that all of human life is turned into a page-turner.
42428784	Tenía mucho tiempo con ganas de leer este libro, pero no me había animado. Supongo que me intimidaba por varias razones, su extensión, el hecho de ser un clásico de la literatura universal, y etceteras, entre ellos falta de tiempo y tranquilidad.Qué maravilla, la verdad fué lo mejor que pude haber hecho.Soy lectora todo terreno. Leo de todo porque quiero leerlo todo. Siempre me gana la curiosidad, y a veces esto me ha metido en más de un libro que me hace pasar bochornos.Pero este libro tiene todo lo que te puedes imaginar, y que puedes esperar, si eres un lector y fan de la forma novela. Es alucinante lo que logra Dostoievski en esta su última novela (me hubiera encantado saber por dónde la pensaba llevar). Yo por lo menos no había escuchado este dato en particular lo suficiente. Lo siento, nunca estudié literatura pero me encanta leer. Y este libro tiene todo. La historia te va llevando siempre, tiene personajes entrañables, que ojo que no te caen bien, no son simpáticos, pero acabas sintiéndolos muy cercanos y muy vivos. Tiene varios momentos en donde los personajes tienen unos monólogos tremendos sobre filosofía, religión, espiritualidad, que si la humanidad está perdida en su egoísmo, o en defensa de los niños. Y una línea en la narración que en ningún momento pierde la tensión y te va llevando por todos lados haciendo que todo tenga sentido. Así que sientes todo lo que puedes sentir cuando una historia te conmueve, te transforma, te enseña cosas de tí mismo. En fin, que te mueve el piso. No sé si puedo decir que los personajes me caen bien. De hecho solo lo puedo decir de Alexei (Aliosha! Lo quiero!), es difícil no quererlo! Por lo bienintencionado e ingenuo que es, aunque esto mismo a momentos me desesperaba de él.Dimitri, cae fatal, pero al ver como los hechos lo van transformando acabé también queriéndolo, aunque me parezca un bestia, un bocón y un escandaloso. La Grushenka, al principio la odié también, por frívola y por mala onda, por jugar con la gente y por vanidosa, pero después también acabé solidarizando con ella porque no es ninguna tonta, porque tiene su carácter, y porque cuando la ves sufriendo el dramón no puedes más que simpatizar con ella. Definitivamente me cayó más bien ella que Katia.Katia me pareció un poco mosquita muerta, la típica sacrificada que un día explota y sale con una venganza mucho más mala onda que si no hubiera aguantado tanto. Aunque dice una línea tan romántica que la tengo que citar “Nuestro amor ha terminado ….… pero amo dolorosamente nuestro pasado”. (Ajúa!)Ivan es extraño, como personaje es el que menos me convenció, de repente es más lo que se discute de él, que lo que él mismo opina o aporta (aunque aparece bastante, y tiene sus monólogos). Me parece que quedó más en lo que representa, el intelectual que no cree en Dios, ni en la vida eterna, representa el lado de la ciencia, de los laicos, que solo piensan en sí mismos y que no pueden querer al prójimo. (No digo más para no meter spoilers)El Fedor Pavlovich tiene más presencia aunque no aparece tanto. Ese hombre te da asco, la mala semilla, pero en vez de ser el hijo, como suele ser en los libros, es el padre.Y muchos personajes, Smerdianov (envidioso deprimente), Kolia (inteligente y precoz), Illusha y su familia, Rakitin (guácala), los Polacos que llegan con el ex de Grushenka, en fin, muchos más que son igual de memorables.Aunque ha cambiado mucho nuestra forma de relacionarnos, como sociedad, con respecto a la religión y la vida espiritual, las ceremonias o en pareja, suceden cosas y situaciones que no se sienten tan distintas a las nuestras. El concepto del bien y del mal sigue siendo el mismo, nuestras intenciones al hacer una cosa o la opuesta también lo son. En eso es como estar leyendo algo completamente cercano, y los personajes son tan vivos y tan reales, que te caigan bien o te caigan mal sales afectado. Yo definitivamente se que los voy a extrañar.
1473222307	Wait a sec...Fuck the five stars!★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★It actually hurts to give it only five. Need I say that this book must be considered one of the wonders of mankind? Would it be necessary to talk about Dostoyevsky's extraordinary ability to create such interesting and realistic characters, or the fact that he was a master of the human psyche? This, of course, is an understatement. Check Ivan Karamazov's encounter with the devil if you don't believe me. In fact, the whole novel is a unique proof of this statement. From the first, introductory pages to the redemptive finale, this novel is a pure masterpiece. I honestly think that books like The Brothers Karamazov defined literature the way bands like The Beatles defined music. Enough said.
1069358396	Sau, un subtitlu subiectiv: CONSECINŢELE DRASTICE ALE RAŢIONALISMULUI, URMĂRILE DEZASTRUOASE ALE EMPIRISMULUI ŞI FERICITA CALE DE MIJLOC.... Încep cu puncte de suspensie, căci nu se poate altfel atunci când ÎNCERCI să spui câteva cuvinte despre "Fraţii Karamazov". Triunghiul Alexei-Ivan-Dimitri. Societatea rusească din secolul al XIX-lea?! No way. Timpul -secolul al XIX-lea- şi spaţiul -Rusia- nu reprezintă decât un fundal pe care Dostoievski îşi aşterne personajele, căci în cadrul operelor sale nu se poate vorbi de o dimensiune spaţială şi una temporală decât dacă privim opera dintr-un unghi pueril. Personajele lui Dostoievski -şi implicit trăirile lor- rămân veşnice, anacronice, lipsite de spaţiu, căci personalităţile complexe dăinuiesc veşnic, indiferent de spaţiu geografic ori de timp istoric, iar asta nu pentru că le-a teoretizat geniul incontestabil al literaturii universale, ci pentru că ele au existat de când lumea şi vor dăinui tot atât, potenţiala "nebunie" cu care sunt descrise nefiind altceva decât formele pasiunii într-un anumit cadru istoric (pasiunea pentru Dumnezeu, pasiunea pentru ştiinţe -de orice ordin- şi pasiunea pentru femeie, inoculate în Alexei, Ivan şi Dimitri deopotrivă). Desigur, aceste forme ale pasiunii nu ţin de geneza ontologică a personajului, ele fiind cultivate de diverşi factori ce se răsfrâng asupra subiectului înzestrat cu o capacitate raţională (şi, prin urmare, cu o capacitate de a discerne, subiectiv, anumite evenimente de care are cunoştinţă). Fără doar şi poate, din acest motiv Dostoievski alocă o bună parte din filele romanului originii fraţilor Karamazov. Cu discrepanţele de vârstă (faptul că unul a avut o mama diferită nu constituie un argument pentru marea diferenţa ideologică dintre dânşii şi, de asemenea, amprenta lui Feodor asupra fiilor săi nu a fost pusă decât prin propria-i spermă *cah*, dat fiind că el nu voia să aibă într-adevăr ştiinţă de rostul copiilor lui în lume), noile mlădiţe ale Karamazovilor cresc -aparent!- armonios...Alexei nu este un "tinerel firav" şi nu avea în el "ceva bolvavicios". Aspiraţia sa demiurgică nu survine din nevoia vieţii eterne, motiv pentru care Dostoievski dă amănunţite explicaţii: "... minunile nu vor reuşi niciodată să-l descumpănească pe un realist. Nu datorită minunilor un realist va ajunge credincios. [...] se va îndoi de propriile lui simţuri decât s-o admită ca atare. [...] minunea ia naştere din credinţă".Despre Ivan -trecând peste considerentele evoluţiei sale- ajunge să spun că, undeva în volumul doi, când acţiunea planează în jurul crimei odioase, spune: "Totul e permis!". Pentru Dimitri, "iubirea plăteşte totul, răscumpăra totul". I. IUBIREA în "Fraţii Karamazov".1. O interesantă remarcă ce surprinde iluzia proiectării omului în absolut prin iubire. Aşadar, iluzia absolutului nu poate dăinui în om decât atunci când acesta este cuprins de o apoteotică "uitare de sine", de o pasiune mistuitoare, fie pentru Dumnezeu, fie pentru cunoaştere, fie pentru femeie: "Pe măsură ce iubirea va triumva, veţi ajunge să va convingeţi de existenţa lui dumnezeu şi să credeţi în nemurirea sufletului". 2. "...cu cât urăsc mai mult indivizii luaţi în parte, cu atât dragostea mea pentru umanitate în general e mai fierbinte." 3. "să ştii că faţă de iubirea contemplativă, dragostea activă pare aprigă şi înfricoşătoare."4. Definirea romanţată a pasiunii omului de geniu, care -în mod absolut!- trebuie să fie conştient că pasiunea, chiar şi în stadiul embrionar fiind, ştirbeşte judecata: "... a fi amorezat e una şi cu totul altceva e să iubeşti. Poţi să fii mort după o femeie şi în acelaşi timp să o urăşti." 5. "Mi-e milă de el şi milă nu e chiar cea mai bună dovadă de dragoste [...] l-aş urî."II. EXISTENŢIALISMUL (precoce) în "Fraţii Karamazov".1. Titlu de capitol: "Degeaba mai face umbră pământului omul acesta!" 2. "Nu putea să suporte incertitudinea!"3. Înrădăcinata dăinuire a iubirii dincolo de hotarele raţiunii: "Viaţă dumitale va fi preocupată cu contemplarea dureroasă a propriilor tale sentimente, a eroismului şi a suferinţei de care ai avut parte."4. Incontestabila cale a sentilui vieţii: "Cred că toată lumea trebuie să iubească viaţă mai presus de orice. [...] s-o iubeşti mai presus decât logică, căci numai aşa ai să-i înţelegi rostul".5. "Taina existenţei umane nu constă în a trăi, ci în a şti pentru ce trăieşti."6. Nevolnicul om în faţă incognoscibilului adevăr: "Totul pe lume este trecător, singur adevărul este veşnic."III. DIMENSIUNEA RELIGIOASĂ în "Fraţii Karamazov". 1. "Dacă nu există nemurirea sufletului, nu există nici virtute." Deducţia aparent fără temei, are, în fapt, o însemnătate cosmică. Doar autoiluzionarea nemuririi îl poate împinge pe om să respecte riguroasa dogmă a virtuţii. Cred că un exemplu arhicunoscut este cazul călugărilor catolici, care ori "cad în păcat", ori "se debarasează", cu brişca, de un deget al manii. Chiar autoflagelarea ("să cauţi fericirea în durere") acesta nu reprezintă altceva decât lupta omului cu virtutea. Deşi, în plan obiectiv, nu are decât iluzia vieţii eterne, el lupta cu flăcările pământeşti pentru ipoteitca (în plan obiectiv), dar sigura (în plan subiectiv) dobândire a vieţii eterne.2. "... Nu-mi place ipocrizia, cuvioşiilor-voastre, iubesc adevărul. Părinţi monahi, de ce postiţi, rogu-vă? De ce aşteptaţi răsplată în ceruri? Pentru o răsplată ca asta aş fi în stare să postesc şi eu! Nu, cuvioase, caută mai bine să fii virtuos în viaţă şi să aduci folos societăţii, nu te fereca în mănăstire ca să stai acolo pe mâncare şi pe băutură şi să ai totul de-a gata, şi nu aştepta o răsplată de acolo, de sus, asta-i ceva mai greu de înfăptuit."3. Nuanţare a pragmatismului, cu iz de indolenţa: ".. admit existenţa lui dumnezeu, o admir pur şi simplu fără niciun fel de complicaţii."4. "Dacă diavolul nu există şi este numai o născocite a omului, atunci într-adevăr acesta l-a plăsmuit după chipul şi asemănarea lui. "Volumul II este o oglindă a celui dintâi. În volumul II se conturează, romanţat, ideile filosofice expuse în primul. Dacă primul aruncă remarci asupra iubirii, în al doilea, procestul (nebunie!!! nebunie totaaaaallllaaa!!) în care Dimtri este acuzat de omucidere, reprezintă o "punere în practică" a iubirii înfiripate în volumul I. De asemenea, Ivan pierde, buimăcit -ca şi mine!- de teroarea aia de proces. Smerdeakov este, de asemenea, o teroare, o întruchipare, în plan metafizic, a Diavolului. Alexei singur, ţinând cu dintîi de "calea lui Cristos", merge mai departe: "Mereu vom merge aşa, toată viaţă, mâna în mâna! Trăiască Aleoşa Karamazov!!"Ajunge! Sunt incapabil...Andrei Tamaş,28 februarie 2016
2772845640	YouTube kanalımda Dostoyevski'nin hayatı, kitapları ve kronolojik okuma sırası hakkında bilgi edinebilirsiniz:https://youtu.be/0i9F0L1dcsMhttps://i.ibb.co/7jghFLT/1.jpgKaramazov Kardeşler : Dostoyevski olağanüstü bir olaydır; belki de Rus bilincine özgü, eşi görülmedik bir olaydır, demişti Oğuz. Sonrasında da "Çirkin kitap yoktur, az Rus klasiği vardır." dedi. Haklıydı. Bugün burada sizinle bir yapbozu tamamlamak için bulunuyoruz. Bu yapbozun adı ise varoluş yapbozu.https://i.ibb.co/RvB530g/2.jpgİnsancıklar : Yapbozun ilk parçası benim, bilirsiniz ki bir yapbozu tamamlamak için genellikle en kolay parçalardan başlanır. Dostoyevskici evren, parçalar halindeki bir evrendir, parçaları da parçalar halindeki başka evrenleri içerir. O yüzden Dostoyevski yapbozuna başlamanın ilk adımı en acı adımlardan ilki olan İnsancıklar parçasıdır, değil mi Karamazov?Karamazov Kardeşler : Kesinlikle. Hatta okurlarımın beni tam olarak anlayabilmesi ve Dmitri, Fyodor, Gruşenka, Katerina karakterleri arasındaki açık uçlu ilişkileri öğrenebilmesi için zamanın eleştirmeni olan Belinski'nin de okuduğunda gözyaşı döktüğü İnsancıklar parçasından başlanması gerekir. Zaten insan, doğduğu anda gözyaşına boğulur belki de geleceğini hisederek. Bu yüzden hayat, gözyaşı havuzunda yüzmeyi bilenlere layıktır.https://i.ibb.co/PTr6G24/3.jpgKaramazov Kardeşler : Yüce İsa adına! Gözlerim çift mi görüyor? Öteki : Parçalarından biri de benim Karamazov. Bilirsin, İnsancıklar'dan sonra ben gelirim. Psikolojide alter ego adıyla geçen, "öteki ben" olarak da tanımlayabileceğimiz, görünmek ve olmak istediği bir insanla birlikte gezen bir insanı anlatırdım, Yakov Petroviç. Namıdiğer Bay Golyadkin. İnsancıklar kitabından sonra ne kadar eleştirilsem de yapbozda olmazsa olmaz bir parçayım bence.Karamazov Kardeşler : Bilirim, bilirim. Bilmez olur muyum! Zaten Dostoyevski'nin varoluş yapbozuna devam edilebilmesi için senin okunman gerekir 2. olarak. Çünkü sayfalarımın arasında anlattığım Ivan Karamazov ile Şeytan'ın karşılaşması, engizisyon başkanı ile İsa'nın konuşması bile bir "öteki ben" kümesine girer. Hatta sevgi ile nefret, zevk ile acı, alçakgönüllülük ile gurur bile birbirinin "öteki ben"idir bence. Dostoyevski'nin sıkça uyguladığı karşıtlıklar ile kurulan edebi metronomun sesi ilk olarak sende duyulur.https://i.ibb.co/Gc9gQYM/4.jpgEv Sahibesi : Artık bir evim var, İnsancıklar ve Öteki sayesinde. Aynı zamanda devrimci bir grup olan Petraşevski grubuna da katıldı bu sırada beni yazan. Dostoyevski'nin bu kadar mali kriz içinde olduğu bir zamanda çektiği zorluklar arasında yazdığı bir kitabı anlatabilmek de çok zor doğrusu. Bilirsin Karamazov... Ordınov nasıl bakardı benim kitabımda?Karamazov Kardeşler : Sanki insanların en derin parçasına ulaşabilmek için bakardı Ordınov. İnsanın içindeki o sahipsiz varoluş parçasını bulabilmek için en derin bakışlarıyla bakardı karşısındakine. Okurun benim içimdeki karakterlerin bakışlarını ve anlık duygu değişimlerini tam olarak anlayabilmesi için yapboza Ordınov parçasını da koyması gerekir önce.https://i.ibb.co/HXQt07P/5.jpgBeyaz Geceler : Ah, ne güzeldir sadece St. Petersburg'da mayıs ile temmuz ayları arasında görülen gecelerin kararmaması olayı! Ne kadar şanslı bir ulusuz biz! Bembeyaz gecelerimiz olmuştu senle Karamazov, hatırla!Karamazov Kardeşler : İnsancıklar'dan sonra senle öğrendim yarım kalmayı, senle öğrendim yarımlarımı tamamlamam gerektiğini. En iyi buluşma yarım kalandır, dedim. Geceleri beyazlaştırdım, gündüzlerimi geceleştirdim senle birlikte. Günlerim birbirine girdi. Sen olmasan erkek ve kadın kalbinin derinliklerinden yukarılara da çıkamazdım. Çünkü içimde anlattığım en renkli Rus geceleri bile senin acı ve yarım kalmışlık eleğinden geçmiş birer özdür, dedim. Varoluş ise özden önce gelir, dedim. Bir kitap düşünün, kitapların yayın hayatları boyunca 'olacakları' varlık çizilmiştir. Onların özü ise Karamazov Kardeşler'dir ve bir ulusun, Rus ulusunun halk bilincini ve varoluşunu tamamen eline almıştır. Sartre sever miydin bu arada?Beyaz Geceler : Bayılırım!Karamazov Kardeşler : Nasıl seviyorsun yahu? Adam 1905'de doğdu. Sen ise 1848'de?Beyaz Geceler : Konu Dostoyevski ise gelecek bir teferruattan ibarettir. Çünkü o daha adı konmamış ve bilimin ancak çok sonra keşfettiği ve adlandırdığı telepatik, histerik, sanrılı, sapıkça fenomenleri keşfetmişti. Stefan Zweig böyle demişti biyografisinin 186. sayfasında. Böyle bir adamdan geleceği görmesi beklenemez mi?https://i.ibb.co/PGXF8fk/6.jpgStepançikovo Köyü : Foma Fomiç'i tanır mısın Karamazov?Karamazov Kardeşler : Tanımam mı? Aslında Rus insanı içinde bulunabilen ve tam da yazımından etkilendiğim Gogol'ün tasarlayabileceği bir karakterdi Foma. Zaten içimde kurguladığım Fyodor Pavloviç Karamazov karakterinin uçarılıkları, Gruşenka'nın rahatlıkla alaya alınabilecek hareketlerini senden öğrenmiştim.https://i.ibb.co/3fy7jWY/7.jpgEzilenler : Eziliyorum, çekilin üstümden! Çekilin!Karamazov Kardeşler : Ezilmeden, öğrenemezsin. Acı çekmeden varoluş yapbozunu tamamlayamazsın. Üstündeki kitaplar olmasaydı sen de olmazdın. Ezileceksin ki öyle öğreneceksin. Dmitri, Alyoşa ve Ivan Karamazov kardeşler bu konuda sana çok şey borçlu.I. Nikolay : Noluyo kardeşim, ne bu tantana? Devrimci Petraşevski grubuna katılanların cezası bugünden sonra idamdır! (Birkaç gün sonra I. Nikolay belki de Rusya'nın edebiyat geleceğini kurtarmak istercesine)I. Nikolay : Ya da hadi neyse, affettim Dostoyevski'yi. Ama sürgün cezasından kurtulamazsın!https://i.ibb.co/JsswzsY/8.jpgÖlüler Evinden Anılar : Çekmeyin, yahu! Çekmeyin beni... Ne yapıyorsunuz?Karamazov Kardeşler : Sen benim "ego"msun. Orta noktamsın. Hatta Dostoyevski'nin kitaplarını Ölüler Evinden Anılar öncesi ve Ölüler Evinden Anılar sonrası olarak ikiye ayırabiliriz. Aynı İsa Öncesi ve İsa Sonrası gibi. Ama benim oluşmamda çok büyük paya sahipsin. Senden öncesi tam bir tutku basamağıydı, yani "id"di. Senden sonrası ise kaçınılmaz bir süperego olacak. O yüzden kitaplar çekiyor seni. Sen ego olduğundan dolayı id ve süperego arasında gidip geliyorlar senin yönetimin altında. Kaçınılmazsın.Eğer Dostoyevski'nin omuzlarındaki melekleri görebilseydik, solundaki melekler Ölüler Evinden Anılar öncesi kitapları, sağındaki melekler ise Ölüler Evinden Anılar sonrası kitapları olurdu. Çünkü tez ile antitezin harmanlanıp bana dönüştüğü yerin tam da ortasısın! Renklerin geldiği yersin. Dostoyevski'nin beyninin sol ve sağ lobu arasındaki o saydam çitsin, okyanuslarda suyun karışmadığı yerleri kıskandıran o sınır sensin! Sen Rus ulusunun arafısın, senden öncesi cehennem ise senden sonraki Dostoyevski, Rus Tanrısına inanan, kurtuluşunu Ortodoks Rusya'da bulmaya çalışan cennetsi Dostoyevski'dir!Ölüler Evinden Anılar : Ben neymişim be abi!II. Aleksandr : Gözyaşlarına boğdu bu kitap beni! Nasıl bir kitap bu, Dostoyevski? Lanet olası federaller! Kaldırıyorum köylülerin köleliğini, serfliği! Kalmayacak bundan sonra özgür olmayan köylü! Milyonlarca köylü artık özgürdür!https://i.ibb.co/0msqnpf/9.jpgO sırada Dostoyevski ağzından köpükler saçıyordu. Sara hastalığını belki de en şiddetli yaşadığı zamanlardı hapishaneden sonrası. Sara olmasaydı Karamazov Kardeşler de olmazdı. Çünkü;"Siz sağlıklı insanlar, siz," diye vaaz eder coşkuyla, "krizden hemen önceki son anda saralının içine nasıl bir sonsuz haz duygusu dolduğunu asla bilemezsiniz." demişti Stefan Zweig'ın biyografi kitabının sayfalarında. (s.114)https://i.ibb.co/ZV4Qh65/10.jpgYeraltından Notlar : Yerin üstünde keyifler nasıl?Karamazov Kardeşler : İnan ki, sen olmasaydın ben de olmazdım. Zirveyi senin sayende gördüm. Yeraltındaki ve en dipteki gözyaşlarıyla beslenerek büyüdüm. En derini seninle birlikte kederleriyle kazan insan aslında sevinçlerine bir kuyu potansiyeli oluşturur gibi düşünmüştüm.https://i.ibb.co/6Bc6ZDX/11.jpgSuç ve Ceza : İşte ben, id, ego ve süperegonun en net hissedildiği kitaplardan biriydim. Sonya ile masumlaştım, Raskolnikov ile Napolyon olmak istedim. Svidrigaylov ile gizemin ta kendisi oldum. Raskolnikov'un vicdan azabını bırakmayan Porfiri oldum. Ben baltaydım. Benle birlikte geçmişti Rus Edebiyatı uçuşa! Hatırla!https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-sOnNePqc6C...Karamazov Kardeşler : Ben ise havaneliydim. Dmitri Karamazov'un gözünün döndüğü yerde senin sayende öğrenmiştim tutkuların ve nefretlerin en derinini. Senin sayende kleptomaniye savrulmuştum. Senin sayende vicdan azabının yoğunluğunu tüm dünyaya tanıtmıştım. Senle kurtulmuştu aslında Rus ulusunun geleceği...https://i.ibb.co/0YNhr8k/12.jpgKumarbaz : Ruletteki kırmızı ile siyah renkleri arasında sanki ölüm ile yaşam arasında yuvarlanır gibi yuvarlanırdı Dostoyevski. Mali sıkıntıları arasında yazdığı ben olmasaydım, karşıtlıkların, kumar tutkusunun ve aşkın bir kumar olduğunun da farkına varamazdın!Karamazov Kardeşler : Bu kumarın krupiyesi benim! Ben topladım senden önceki kitapları buraya, çünkü onlar da iliklerine kadar mali zorluk içerisinde sürünüyordu. Hayatın kumar olduğu yerde Dostoyevski'nin oynadığı kumardan ne zarar gelirdi?https://i.ibb.co/R71LrNJ/13.jpgBudala : Suç ve Ceza'nın tamamlayıcı elementiydim. Raskolnikov'da eksik bırakılan ne varsa Mışkin tezatlığıyla sağlardım. Rogojin ve Nastasya Filippovna karakterleriyle tanıtıldım. Her zaman budala dendi bana. Ama I. Nikolay'ın Dostoyevski'yi idam cezasına çarptıracağı sırada affettiği yerde hissettiklerini belki de içimde anlattığım idam mahkumu sahnesindeki saniyelerde keşfedebilirdi okurum. Zaten saniyeleri saatleştiren adamdı Dostoyevski. 50 yaşında binlerce yıllık acı çekmiş demişti Zweig onun için.Karamazov Kardeşler : Sen olmasaydın Suç ve Ceza tamamlanamazdı! Suç ve Ceza bir aksonsa, sen ise bir dendrittin insanın sinir hücreleri gibi. Akson ile dendritler arasında gidip gelen edebi stimülasyonlarımı senin aracılığıyla keşfettim.https://i.ibb.co/k21Kdn7/14.jpgEcinniler : Neçayevizmi benle tanıdı Rus okuru. Zaten Dostoyevski'nin amacı da buydu. Rusya'yı, Rus bilincini, Rus halkı olabilmeyi ve ben-insan'dan evrensel-insana geçişi anlatmak istiyordu. Aynı Hz. İsa gibi! Ben ise ahlak ile politikanın birleştiği noktaydım. Entelijansiya kesimini ben tanıttım. Karamazov Kardeşler'deki çeşit çeşit katmandan insanı tanımak isteyen okur beni es geçmemeli! Bakın, nasıl da heybetliyim bir siyaset adamı gibi!https://i.ibb.co/mFcnmjR/15.jpgKaramazov Kardeşler : Sen niye hiçbir şey yapmıyorsun? Senin özelliğin ne?Delikanlı : Benim özelliğim, Edward Hallett Carr'ın da biyografisinde demiş olduğu, "Dostoyevski'nin hiçbir romanında bu kadar kişi yoktur ya da hiçbir romanında, kitap kapatıldıktan sonra okuyucunun aklında kesin bir izlenim bırakan bu denli az kişi yoktur," Tam olarak buyum. Versilov ile Makar karakterlerinin baba rolleri arasında kutsal Rusya ve Neçayevizm akımının sönmesini anlatmaya çalışmıştım.https://i.ibb.co/MV5XN2g/16.jpgKaramazov Kardeşler : Sadece isim benzerliği, üzgünüm.Eti Pavloviç Karamazov : Özür dilerim!Ölüler Evinden Anılar kitabından sonra Dostoyevski'nin sağındaki Ortodoks Rusya ve Panslavist melekler ayaklanmıştı. Öncesi "id"di. Savrulmuş tutkular, başıboş hayaller ve liberal Avrupa'ya yan gözle baktığı gençlik hovardalığı zamanlarıydı. Karamazov Kardeşler de aslında bir nevi yükseliş sırasındaki duraklamaydı. Çünkü Suç ve Ceza ile Budala zaten çıtayı en yükseğe koymuştu. https://i.ibb.co/QF78J1P/17.jpgPuşkin Konuşması'nda çıtayı, Rus milli halkı bilincini, Puşkin'in değerinin bilinmesi gerektiğini dinleyenlerine olabildiğince şevkli bir şekilde anlatabilen Dostoyevski aslında Hristiyan doktrininde Tanrı'nın Baba, Oğul ve Kutsal Ruh'tan oluşan teslis inancında Gogol ve Puşkin ile birlikte edebi bir teslise ulaşmıştı. Bütün insanlar adına acı çekmek istiyordu! Ben-insan'dan evrensel insana ulaşmayı, Hz. İsa gibi dünyanın bütün acılarını kendi vücudunda toplamayı ve Rus ulusunu kurtarmayı istiyordu! Karamazov Kardeşler'in başarısı işte buydu! Puşkin'e Rus Tanrısı diyen okurlar Dostoyevski'ye peygamber diyorlardı!https://i.ibb.co/nbpcDVC/18.jpgKaramazov Kardeşler yazımı sırasında icra edilen Puşkin Konuşması'nda Dostoyevski'nin anlattıklarından sonra küsler barışıyordu, 20 yıldır konuşmayan insanlar birbirleriyle konuşmaya başlamıştı, küsleri aşkla tutuşturan, dargınları barıştıran bu olağanüstü adam edebiyatındaki karşıtlıkları ustaca kullanımını nasıl insan hayatına bu kadar derin bir şekilde yansıtabiliyordu?! Gözyaşları, Dostoyevski'nin istediği derinlikte yüzebileceği havuzuydu. Turgenyev ise bu milli havuzun içinde liberal Avrupa ütopyasıyla birlikte boğulmuştu.https://i.ibb.co/yFP5Tc6/19.jpgOmuzlarda geziyordu Karamazov, mutluluktan uçuyordu, hayat boyunca geçmek bilmeyen mali krizi flörtü Suslova ile tanışmasından sonra eşi Anna ile çocuklarının olmasının da etkisiyle birlikte varoluşuna ulaşmaya çabalıyordu. https://i.ibb.co/W0K0r93/20.jpgVe tamamlanmıştı. Dostoyevski'nin varoluş yapbozu en nihayetinde tamamlanabilmişti. Sonbaharı İnsancıklar, kışı Ölüler Evinden Anılar, baharı Suç ve Ceza, yazı Bir Yazarın Defteri olan bu ulu adamın varoluşunun en büyük öz parçası Karamazov Kardeşler'di. Evet, Rus Tanrısının edebiyat çarmıhına Gogol ve Puşkin ile birlikte gerilen bu olağanüstü adam varoluşunu Karamazov Kardeşler ile çoktan tamamlamıştı. Dostoyevski'nin ilk ürünlerinde etkisi net bir şekilde görülen Puşkin'in Yevgeni Onegin'den kaldırılan şiirine ufak bir ekleme yaparak sonsuzlaştırmak isterim yazımı:"Ortasında yosmaların dua düşkünü,Ortasında dalkavukların gönüllü,Ortasında her günkü moda sahnelerin,Nazikçe, güleryüzlü ihanetlerin, Ortasında soğuk kararlarınınKatı yürekli bir koşturuşun,Ortasında bezdirici boşluğununHesaplaşmaların, düşüncelerin ve konuşmaların,O burgaçta, ki Dostoyevski ile ben durmaksızınSevgili dostlarım benim, yıkanmaktayız."
8910297	This is a review both of the book and the translation. See my review of Crime and Punishment for an explanation of why I don't entirely like this translation -- the authors sacrifice clarity and readability for technical accuracy in a way that tends to obscure the meaning. That said, though, it's a very good one, and I'd give it a four out of five. My pet peeve in most translations is the choice of the word "meek" instead of "gentle". These have utterly different connotations in modern English, and describing a man as having "meek eyes" totally misses the point Dostoevsky was trying to make, which was that the person was serene and handled someone else gently. Argh.Anyway, this is the best book ever written. Every time I read it, I discover new truths about life, and find myself reading passages out loud to anyone within range. Different plot lines and passages stand out to me every time I read it, in different parts of my life. It has profoundly affected my outlook on the world, and is very nearly the equivalent of a bible. (Think Moby Dick in Heathers. :) )Nominally, it is the story of three sons of a lecherous, nasty old man. The oldest is Dmitri, a passionate, sensual man who hates his father for cheating him out of his money. The next is Ivan, an intellectual and enlightened man, who hates his father for abandoning him and for just being a reprehensible person. The third brother is Alexei (called Alyosha by most) -- a quiet, gentle (but not meek!!) mostly innocent boy who (when the book opens) is living in a monastery, and doesn't hate anyone. There is also a possible fourth brother, the illegitimate child of the father and a town fool he raped. The first half of the book culminates in the murder of the father, the second half is spent discovering who did it and why.To be honest, the first few times I read the book I didn't even remember who actually ended up doing it -- so much more is going on in the book that it turns out to be the least important thing. Any of them could have done it, certainly. But in the course of the book, Dostoevsky uses these characters (and a bunch more) to examine the nature of humanity, religion, faith, good and evil, love, hate, and just about everything that matters in life. He's not like modern authors who gloss over everything -- his characters all do terrible things at various times. There are very few purely good or evil people in his books; he is obsessed with examining all aspects of people, and who they are within themselves and through society. There is an interlude, The Grand Inquisitor, which is a story Ivan tells to explain what he hates about organized religion, that is frequently used as a short story in itself by literature and religion classes around the world.On a deeper level, Dostoevsky uses the book to express the conflicting parts of himself. He names the father Fyodor, his own name, and splits the sons into caricatures of himself; a passionate side, an intellectual side, and a pure side that is striving for goodness (which last, it must be noted, is named for his son Alexei, who died at three years old.) He has the parts argue with each other and themselves, and tries to work out how they complement each other and what it all means, with the help of other characters who bring out those parts of him. The fourth brother represents the nasty parts of himself that he's mostly unwilling to acknowledge (thus the unacknowledged son), but oddly enough, he gives the fourth brother epilepsy, a problem Dostoevsky himself had.I could go on for pages, but I'll stop now. Read this book! I mean it! But go for the Constance Garnett translation if you can find it. Or check out several translations, and pick the one that appeals to you the most.
77246388	Note: This review was written on Nov 18th 2007, a week after my twenty-first birthday. Excuse the youthful clumsiness of my style.Matters of Life and DeathOften I used stop people in the streets, shake them frantically on the shoulders and slap them on the face, shouting again and again: “Is there a God? Is there a God? For God’s sake, just tell me if there’s a God!”You would be surprised at the results I gathered from this. One or two of them confirmed that there is indeed a God, and that his name is Jack Daniels, whereas the others fought me off and beat me to a pulp (which I interpreted as an emphatic no). This marked the beginning of my long period of agnosticism. I was fed up of the bruises, quite frankly.In The Brothers Karamazov, one of thee Great Russian novels, I found characters who shared my plight. For within this Herculean tome, I found discourses in which the author wrestles with notions of the hereafter, the supposed everlastingness of God, and the point of it all. It tackles the most impossible philosophical arguments that will visit each and every mortal on this earth at some stage, and offers the most incredible arguments for them all, proving universal to all types of being on this earth. All in a succinct and accessible 974 pages of literary delight.Historical FactsFyodor Dostoevsky wrote this book at a time when he had been lionised in Russia as one of the most important writers in the motherland. Not necessarily from a critical standpoint—his books were still unpopular among the status quo—but within the academic and greater reading public, he was tantamount to an emperor. He should have been a megastar within his lifetime, in this reviewer’s opinion, but no one was ever going to warm to an author as uncompromising and academically volatile as he was. Except perhaps his stenographer.In 1880, after this (his final book) was released, he made a speech to mark the erection of a monument to Aleksander Pushkin, celebrating a milestone in the progression of Russian literature. One year later, he passed on at the solid age of 60, leaving a canon of work more sensational than one-hundred free trips to Glasgow’s Water World. His swansong novel was quite a note to bow out on. An often quoted but scarcely read masterwork, it made the biggest impact of all his novels on the world at large, and pushed him into the echelons of literary immortality with 19th century contemporaries Dickens, Balzac and Tolstoy.On top of this, Sigmund Freud was his biggest fan. Not bad, eh? That nefarious little wench Susan Sontag also likes him. Which is less impressive in comparison.Themes & PlotFor those unfamiliar with this work, it is an accessible and none too unmanageable text to read. The conceit is that the Karamazov brothers, Dmitri, Ivan and Alyosha are all to some extent dependent on their grudging old scrote of a father in the small village of Skotoprigonyevsk. These three brothers are used to symbolise the tripartite nature of man: body, mind and spirit. Each also harbour opposing teleological views which puts them at odds with one another throughout the entire duration of the text. When Dmitri, a hedonistic wastrel (representing sensual pleasures of the body) asks his father for three-thousand roubles with which to support himself, he is refused and is unable to find another benefactor. Here we have the setup.What transpires is a murder mystery yarn, the crux of the plot to the novel, where Dmitri is incorrectly arrested for the murder of his father following a dark night of carousing. The action in The Brothers Karamazov takes place over four days, and is centred (for the most part) around the interactions of these brothers and additional characters, most of whom sink to various levels of despair, confusion, helplessness and sorrow over the course of this short time. The continual themes of deceit, abandonment, torture and suffering are never far from the narrative, and the dialogue is very much in the melodramatic tradition of the era.Central to this basic narrative are the discourses around God and the Devil, whose presences cast a continual shadow over the narrative. In this desolate and rather awful village in North Russia, the characters wander through their miserable lives with uncertainty, seeking examples of God’s existence and to prove their individual theories of life just so they can understand the absurdity of the world around them. It is a place of petty tortures and brutal co-dependence, where the follies of man are shown for what the stupidities they are, and the sad desperation of life is rendered almost transcendent.CharactersOne suspects, given Dostoevsky’s own faith, that he intended Alyosha (the spiritual and naive brother) to be the real centre of this piece. It was easier for me to empathise more with this character, one of the few gracious, forgiving and angelic presences in the novel, and without his voice the book would lack a hopeful presence. He is taken on a journey that tests his faith in a proper John Bunyan idiom, forced to contemplate the idea that the monk Starets Zosima was not as pure and divine as he trusted him to be. We are also shown the extent of his knowledge and wisdom with an exceptional sub-narrative revolving around a precocious child and a group of troublemaking schoolchildren.The brothers Dmitri and Ivan are destructive and irascible characters, seldom likeable and halted in their lives through their mutual dislike of both their father and one another. We are forced to watch these brothers scold one another and fester in hatred, and for their views and desires to drive them apart. The Father Fyodor (while he is still alive) is also intolerable, and it is only through religious voices such as Starets Zosima whom we can take some kind of solace.The object of the feuding brothers’ affections is the more well-to-do “lady” of the village Katerina Ivanovna whom is torn between her hateful relationship with Dmitri and her uncertain affections for Ivan. Grushenka is the “local Jezebel” of the village with whom the brothers are also besotted. It is clear that part of their mutual downfall has to do with the indecision, torment and deceit these women place upon the brothers, but this is more in relation to the untrustworthiness they have placed upon them. Alyosha expresses affection for Lise, a secondary character who also occupies the one home in which these women reside. He is unsure of his affections in the novel, however, and his love goes unresolved within the narrative.The purpose of these characters is to torment one another. It is rare that a character within this text is not breaking down into a hysterical outburst at one moment or another. Barely five pages have past before a Karamazov is tearing someone apart in a moment of feverish excitement. The shame of asking for money (for grovelling and sacrificing dignity) seems to hang over the brothers at all times (especially Dmitri), and there are procession of niggling villagers such as Miusov, the bothersome theology student Rakitin and the dangerous epileptic Smerdyakov (who is roundly abused throughout the novel) to fester their lives.Style & LengthThe Brothers Karamazov does require a few weeks of consistent reading and demands those who undertake it to be prepared for all manner of devious arguments pertaining to the existence of God. The author was a devout believer in He Above (meaning there are Bible quotes aplenty to be found) but presents the opposing arguments in a lucid and accessible manner through Ivan’s own atheism and Dmitri’s agnosticism. Given how the two non-believers are forced to confront their own demons to an extreme degree, and to follow through on their godless decisions in times of great strife, it would seem the sensible people are those on the side of God in Dostoevsky’s opinion. Ivan is forced to confront the Devil towards the end of the book, and in contemplation of a life without love, he is driven to delirium.Critics often liken the long-windedness in the text to the structural principals Dostoevsky derived from music. It is thought that the development of the novel thrives on the extended use of subordinate themes and variations of these themes. Victor E. Amend argued that, similar to the dialogue between piano and orchestra in Beethoven’s Fourth Piano Concerto, the development is accomplished by the alternate presentation of the themes until the dominant one prevails. While his style is an oral, often freewheeling and “unedited” it is a very readable and thoroughly accessible style.Some might quibble about the extended time spent dwelling on inappropriate scenes, such as when the schoolchildren gather around Alyosha or the 70-odd pages spent on legal speeches towards the end, but these all contribute to this musical “theme and variation” style that makes Dostoevsky such a fulfilling author. To trim material as psychologically prodigious and insightful as this would be akin to chopping out the last ten minutes of a Beethoven Concerto or losing that extended guitar solo in Stairway To Heaven. It must remain as it stands. However, I should confess for the sake of honesty that I did find myself restless towards the end. This does not diminish the flow and brilliance of his style, in fact—it seemed appropriate to bring such a mighty work to its conclusion.Translation & Other WorksThe finest version of this book is the translation from Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky, who also did a stellar job on Crime & Punishment. It is available in Penguin Paperback. This version, alas, was an Oxford World Classics print, translated by Ignat Avsey. This Latvian louse converted a great deal of the text into Present Day English, incorporating phrases that seem inappropriate to the time period of the novel. He also had the audacity to change the title to The Karamazov Brothers instead of the original title on the proviso we don’t say “The Brothers Marx” when referring to a brethren. Pah! His introduction is also littered with erroneous observations (such as that the town name of the text is said once – it is in fact said twice in the text). His translation is to be avoided at all costs.The oeuvre of this great Russian author is to me vitally important. What I take from his novels is this profound sense of redemptive catharsis; that there is nothing so awful from which a person can never return. His novels, in all their unrelenting gloom and Russian thickness, present a vision often of a world in squalor-filled chaos, but from this chaos he shows us that the solution for all our problems lies in our own collective freedom as individuals. This makes him timeless and cherished in the eyes of this reviewer, and I have yet to find a novel to match the incredible Crime & Punishment or a novella to equal Notes From Underground. Both are also recommended to those unversed in his canon.ConclusionThe Brothers Karmazov achieves that rare feat in 19th century literature in that it remains infinitely readable, gripping and vital to readers to this very day. Even those intimidated by its considerable size will be surprised just how immersed in this magnificent masterwork they will become. As a rule, I avoid these mammoth doorstoppers when making book choices, but this one had me entranced from beginning to end—despite those indulgent moments of excessive erudition. I recommend this to all readers prepared to tackle its complex subject matter and who wish to put themselves at the hands of a master.The rewards are abounding.
3248996177	Satana sum, et nihil humanum a me alienum puto.Dostoevskij distillato puro, senza edulcoranti. Il consumo eccessivo potrebbe provocare effetti allucinogeni e crisi di coscienza nei lettori più sensibili.Inizia lento e schivo come una brace sepolta dalla cenere, termina divampando in un rogo di emozioni. Se le interminabili digressioni sulla dottrina cristiana vi annoiano, tenete duro: dalla metà in poi il paradiso lascia il posto all'inferno.Deliri religiosi a parte, è comunque bello leggere un libro scritto solo ed esclusivamente per dire quello che l'autore ha in mente, senza filtri, tagli o facili espedienti narrativi fatti per accontentare il pubblico; io però sono una lettrice semplice, e un po' di scorrevolezza in più l'avrei apprezzata.
3358851489	Esta monumental novela ofrece motivos suficientes para posicionarse como una de las novelas cumbre de la literatura rusa y universal. Fiodor Dostoievski con su ultima y más lograda novela, alcanza retratar a la perfección la decadencia del alma humana así como la obsesión por los deseos carnales más bajos del hombre, tal como ya nos había mostrado en sus novelas anteriores. Una magnífica obra que entre sus tramas refleja a la perfección la situación política de la Rusia del siglo XIX, la espiritualidad del ser y la redención. Una novela altamente emocional y visceral, plagada de personajes disfuncionales y excesivos, pero sobre todo creados con una profundidad y complejidad propia de un autor tan conocedor del alma humana como lo era Fiodor Dosteievski.Cuando el autor cumplía su sentencia en Siberia en 1850 (por fomentar ideología en contra del Zar), conoció a un joven llamado Ilinski que había sido condenado por asesinar a su padre para convertirse en heredero. Luego de 10 años se descubrió que había sido injustamente condenado y más tarde liberado cuando el verdadero asesino confesó el crimen. Esta experiencia conmovió a Dostoievski, transladándola a su más grande novela mostrándonos a la familia Karamasov. En algo más de mil páginas estructuradas en doce libros y con una prosa llena de sabiduría su autor desprende magia y maestría al contarnos una historia monumental sobre un parricidio.Fiodor Karamasov es padre de tres hijos, un hombre repugnante y egoísta, que disfruta de caer en el ridículo al parecer un completo bufón; así como aprovecharse de los demás. El primer hijo es Dmitri, un hombre violento y lleno de odio hacia su padre al considerar que éste le robó parte de su fortuna. De un segundo matrimonio Ivan y Aliosha son los siguientes hijos, dotado este último de una personalidad conciliadora y entregado a la religión. Gruchenka, una divertida y despreocupada fémina que goza con implantar discordia en la familia Karamasov será pieza clave en la historia junto a Smerdiakov, el sirviente fiel del Padre Karamasov y del que se cree que es su hijo bastardo. Pronto ocurrirá una tragedia que termina con la muerte del padre, culpando a Dmitri el hijo mayor por considerar suficientes motivos el odio y los celos que sentía hacia su padre por culpa de Grushenka, mujer que tenia una relación sentimental con ambos. Dostoievski siempre afirmó que Los hermanos Karamasov era su obra maestra. Y sin duda podría dársele ese título debido a la maestría con que su autor escribe innumerables historias entrelazándolas en una obra general. La novela es magistral y plasma toda su complejidad narrativa logrando manipular al lector en los dilemas psicológicos de sus personajes así como al mostrarnos un universo filosófico y altamente alegórico. Podríamos decir con todo mérito que Los hermanos Karamasov es la mejor novela jamás escrita, alabada por diversos autores ha servido de referencia y punto de partida para que grandes pensadores y novelistas desarrollen historias grandiosas inspiradas en esta bella novela. Y es que como diría Dostoievski: No hay nada que seduzca más al hombre que el libre albedrío, pero tampoco hay nada que lo haga sufrir más.🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟
213554101	I know it makes me look ignorant and uncouth to declare a masterpiece of literature by one of the greats to be awful, but here I am. I've wanted to read The Brothers Karamazov for years and years. I was looking forward to the type of revelatory experience I had with Anna Karenina a few years back--the oh-wow-now-I-see-what-everyone-was-talking-about:-Tolstoi-is-AWESOME experience. But no. I managed to wade through the first quarter or so of the audiobook before the library demanded it back for another patron and I can't say I was sorry to see it go. Although admittedly it was right as I was starting on the story of the Grand Inquisitor which is supposed to be the great contribution of the novel, so perhaps I ought to give it a few more chapters.It's not the translation and it's not the reader (I'm pretty sure he's the same guy who read The Count of Monte Cristo which has a similar prose style to Karamazov except that I ENJOYED that novel). It's the tedious, repetitious prose and above all the gosh-awful characters. The women especially are all over-the-top drama queens full of hysterics and the men aren't much better. Even the heroic protagonist, Alyosha is not someone I have any interest in spending time with. The most valuable part of the novel are the occasional dialogues set up as an excuse to give lengthy discourses on politics and religion. Which are intriguing insights to 19th century thought, but for that I could read a history or philosophy book, not a painfully constructed novel.So please, please--somebody point me to a literary critic or something that can help me appreciate this book so I don't feel like such a clueless oaf.
831295993	2014 has started out as a real crapper on the reading front. I'd like to believe it's because of work distractions, family drama, competing entertainment - but we all have those things and find plenty of time to read. So the honest answer is that for weeks I couldn't come to grips with just how little I was enjoying this novel. And that frustration lead me away from all other reading material. The tight downward spiral of self imposed illiteracy.I haven't completed all of FD's works, but everything else I've read by him I have found tremendous. His short stories - even Netochka Nezvanova - held rich characters and thematic threads that I keep coming back to. Crime and Punishment is one of my top five fave fictional works. I was waiting to read TBK, his reported magnum opus, as the last piece after completing everything else of his - I was encouraged by friend spenke's tattoo and the fabulous reading group here on GR to take it on before The Idiot and Demons - now I've scared the shit out of myself for finishing the rest of his oeuvre.I'm prepared to accept that TBK and me may have been snake-bit from the start. I really did read the first 250 pages four times; on the fourth read through I just had to accept that the lack of subtlety and over-drawn characterizations wasn't going away. Christ-like Alyosha? Hit me over the head with that again please. Dmitri's constant flying at his conversational partner? By mid-novel I just went ahead and pictured him with a pair of giant dragon wings to entertain myself. Then there's the long, unnecessary story about the young toughs that belongs in a different book; the unraveling pot-boiler of a whodunnit murder story that I just couldn't have given a shit about; and brain fevers/vapors/weak constitutions enough to make me wonder if there was something in the town's well. And in case the reader wasn't paying close enough attention to FD the first 650 pages, we are going to get it served up thick-and-meaty from two lawyers' soliloquies that there isn't a chance we won't get it. In what could possibly be the greatest advertisement never, ever, NEVER to get a Kindle Paperwhite - and just read from a book made from trees like we've done since the dawn of man - there's a nifty, over-engineered function that allows you to click on a character's name on a page, and ostensibly it should give you a sentence of some very basic info on who this person is. Great in theory. Until you click on a character's name AND IT GIVES YOU A HUGE FUCKING PLOT SPOILER REVEAL!!! I'm not joking. I almost snapped that wafer-thin electronic over my knee. For those of you that have a Paperwhite give it a go: Smerdyakov. Just please don't try it until you've finished the book.Snake-bit, I tells ya. Snake-bit.
6912734050	Anche dopo questa seconda rilettura mi scopro sempre esterrefatto dalla capacità di Dostoevskij d'innestare una tale mole di temi su di una trama di per sé assai esigua. Riflessioni filosofiche, politiche, sociali, istanze di rinnovamento, continui dilemmi, domande, dubbi, estasi religiose, intense meditazioni sul senso della vita non fanno che intrecciarsi tra loro a comporre un unicum l'incredibile fascino. Si tratta forse di un libro in grado di fornir risposte ai grandi temi che caratterizzano l'esistenza? Tutt'altro. Dostoevskij non concede risposte, ma solo spunti di riflessione che spera, forse, aiutino il lettore a trovar le PROPRIE risposte. Ecco perché, innanzi agli eventi narrati e alle loro implicazioni, è così difficile pronunciarsi. Ogni facile giudizio viene subito a vedersi sconfessato e, contesa tra mille opposti diversi, la verità, come sempre accade anche nella vita, stenta a lasciarsi contemplare.
3916629291	پایان بازخوانی دوم، برای همین یک متن جدید به ریویوی قبلی اضافه میکنم:برادران کارامازوف بیش از یک رمان است؛ این کتاب یک تجربه انسانی است که هر خواننده‌ای را غنی‌تر، متفکرتر و شاید حتی مهربان‌تر می‌کند. داستایفسکی در این اثر، تمام توانایی‌های خود را به کار گرفته تا آینه‌ای در برابر بشریت قرار دهد، آینه‌ای که هم زیبایی‌ها و هم زشتی‌های وجود ما را نشان می‌دهد. این کتاب نه‌تنها ارزش یک‌بار خواندن را دارد، بلکه هر بار که به آن بازگردید، لایه‌های جدیدی از معنا و زیبایی را در آن کشف خواهید کرد.ریویوی مربوط به خوانش اول:فئودور کارامازوف به قتل رسیده و همین امر باعث میشود که سه پسرش به نام‌های دیمیتری، ایوان و اَلکسی به دور هم جمع شوند. قاتل چه کسیست؟ اما این ماجرای اصلی نیست. شروع داستان از زمان ازدواج فئودور با همسر اولش "آدلاید" شروع میشود و تا به دنیا آمدن پسران و بچگی و بزرگ شدنشون ادامه پیدا میکند و روایت‌های مختلفی از حرص و طمع و حسادت و عشق و دوستی میان اعضای مختلف خانواده را به تصویر میکشد و میرود تا برسد به قتل پدر این سه برادر و ادامه‌ی داستان...این کتاب یک کتاب معمولی نیست و نباید به عنوان یک داستان کلاسیک و عادی بهش نگاه کرد چون قطعا اگر با این دید به سراغش برید همون پنجاه صفحه‌ی‌ اول ازش خسته میشید و ولش می کنید. چرا؟ چون این کتاب پر از توصیفات و گفت و گوهای معمولی بین چندین نفره و قطعا اگر با دید یک کتاب معمولی بخونیدش به هیچ وجه جذبش نمیشید. اما دقیقا این توصیفات و حال و احوال شخصیت‌ها داستان اصلی رو تشکیل میدن که اگر حتی یک خط رو هم رد کنید ممکنه یک قضیه‌ی فوق مهم رو نادیده گرفته باشید.شخصیت های این کتاب به علاوه شخصیتهای اصلی، فوق‌العاده زیادن و البته هر کدوم به نوع خودشون در پیشبرد ماجراها مهم هستند و اینقدر پیچشهای شخصیتی و فامیلی بین کاراکترها زیادن که خواه‌ناخواه فرعی ترین شخصیت هم کاملا مهم تلقی میشه.جالبه که بدونید داستایفسکی در اول کتابش شخصیت "الکسی" رو به عنوان قهرمان داستانش در نظر گرفته که همین باعث شد موقع خوندن خیلی به این شخصیت توجه کنم و ناخودآگاه فهمیدم که چقدر این شخص با اینکه هیچ تشابه‌ای به معنی کلمه‌ای و واقعی قهرمان نداره اما شخص اول داستانه و مهم ترین کاراکتر.این کتاب یک چیزی فراتر از داستانی معمولیه. پر از درس زندگیه، پر از عشقه، پر از آموزه‌های دنیایی و دینیه و کلا پر از نصحیت و حرفه که قطعا میتونه تا سالیان سال جز برترین آثار تاریخ باشه. جالبه که باید بدونید برادران کارامازوف آخرین نوشته‌ی داستایفسکیه و ازش به عنوان "وصیتنامه‌ی داستایفسکی به ملت روس" نام برده میشه.خب، من واقعاً تک تک شخصیت های این کتاب رو دوست داشتم و با اینکه کتابی فوق العاده حجیمیه و سخت‌خوان هم هست اما برای من فوق‌العاده جذاب بود. تنها کاراکتری که واقعا ازش حرص میخوردم همین فئودور کارامازوف بود که نمونه‌ی بارز یک موجود اضافی برای جامعه‌ی بشری محسوب میشد...بهتون پیشنهاد می کنم حتما این کتاب رو بخونید اما اصلاً به عنوان یک اثر معمولی بهش نگاه نکنید.این کتاب با تمام شخصیت‌هاش، با تمام دیالوگ‌هاش، با تمام حرص‌خوردن‌هاش و با آغاز و پایانش شما رو شیفته‌ی خودش میکنه.واقعا 5 ستاره برای این اثر فاخر کمه و اگر میتونستم 100تا ستاره براش میذاشتم....
4087637353	От размирен дух като Достоевски не може да се очаква нищо по-малко от това в един битов сюжет да изправи на съд бог, човечеството и Русия. И после да направи помен за тях, наобиколен от децата на бъдещето.———Жанрът на романа е определящ за всяка основна заложена идея, и същевременно е без значение в цялост, защото е само маска, с която майсторът си служи и сръчно сменя преди зрителят да е успял даже да мигне.Семейната сага очертава портретите на едно семейство (общество), което не е семейство (общество) - баща, който не е баща, и синове, лутащи се в търсене на собствен път. Фьодор Павлович е образец на низостта, удостоена с примитивни наченки на ум. Дмитрий е руската стихийност между запоя и блъскането на разкаяна глава в здрава стена. Иван е рационалистът, опитващ се да се отърси от оковите на закостенялостта и низостта около себе си. Алексей е наивният мистик, смятащ се за готов да надене монашеското расо, докато не осъзнава, че този свят също има нужда от благородни борци, а отвъдният няма да му избяга.Криминалният трилър предоставя съдебна трибуна за природата на човека под привидно тривиалния, но изпипано напрегнат въпрос: “Кой и защо уби Фьодор Павлович и му открадна 3000 рубли?”Философското изследване - като запазена марка и тежка мозъчна артилерия на руските романисти - е разпръснато наглед случайно из сюжета на няколко почти самостоятелни острова:📚 Новелата “Великият инквизитор” може да се чете дори отделно от романа. Тя е елегантно завършена и смислово отделена - направо е гениална! - и представлява един от най-проницателните анализи кое у човека изначално прави вътрешния му повик към тиранията и тоталитаризма неустоим. А именно - щастието да връчи свободата и съвестта си на “избраните”, “компетентните”, “авторитетите”. И - отървал се от това бреме - щастливо да си свирка по пътя… Оруел, Хъксли и останалите донадграждат този фундамент през следващия нов век. [Първоначалното намерение на Достоевски за тази новела като заклеймяване на либерализма няма нищо общо с финалното ѝ читателско тълкуване и въздействие - гениално, Достоевски излъчва всъщност тъкмо обратното послание и зрелищно се самоопровергава!]📚 Поученията на стареца Зосима са “правото на отговор” на бълнуващия и не по-малко зловещ православен мистицизъм в руска версия. Като правилен път Достоевски настоява за установяване на теократичен църковен тоталитаризъм. Наред с любовта към ближния, уви, се настоява за пълен отказ от личността, но не се забравя и стремлението към въздигане на руския православен народ-“богоносец” в собствен здраво укрепен и прилично голям ъгъл. Тук поученията са точно онези, които нашият Христо Ботев злостно иронизира - не мога да се сдържа да не го цитирам като противоотрова към мракобесния Достоевски култ към самоотричането и “целебното” страдание:“Кажи ми, кажи, бедний народе,кой те в таз рабска люлка люлее?Тоз ли, що спасителят прободена кръстът нявга зверски в ребрата,или тоз, що толкоз годин ти пее:„Търпи, и ще си спасиш душата?!“📚 Гъската с прерязана от каруцата шия , защото не може да се спре да кълве зърно под опасната неукрепена и потеглила на собствен ход каруца. Великият инквизитор на Севиля би одобрил притчата. А сталинизмът и нацизмът доказват правотата ѝ в по-ново време. 📚За десерт - съвсем по руски - се явява и сам дяволът . Малко старомодно облечен, но крайно изискан господин, много остроумен и направо неустоим. Булгаков ползва сходен патент за своя. ———Централният въпрос, който занимава целия роман, е има ли нужда от бог. Темата - отново съвсем по руски - се дискутира разгорещено на обичайни и необичайни места, в разумни и в “безбожни” часове - в манастира, в кръчмата, у дома, в затвора и в съда. Наред с крайно интересните гледни точки, Достоевски отстоява до самия край под различни форми следното: без бог всичко е позволено, защото без бог няма морал. Точно тук никак не съм съгласна с Фьодор Михайлович, защото той сам в крайна сметка се опровергава, признавайки бог за идея . Каквито са и религии като конфуцианството, даоизмът, индуизмът… И отчитайки, че в края на 19-ти век негов главен “враг” са тъкмо други идеи, идещи основно от западноевропейкото Просвещение, което той люто кълне и ненавижда. Писателят удобно забравя, че силните и добри идеи се допълват, а не се отричат, като новооформеното цяло никога не е тъждествено на източниците си. И това е цялата човешка история, която съдържа все по-малко и по-малко бог, но не непременно за лошо! А преди него е имало други - също ефективни - идеи и етични системи… За Фьодор Михайлович девизът на френската революция “свобода, равенство, братство” (наред с трижди проклетия либерализъм - демо-версия от 19-ти век) е порта към отприщване на ада на земята. Тази трагична гледна точка - от камбанарията на век и половина изтекло оттогава време - е преувеличена и преждевременна. Дали хората ще отприщят злите сили на своята природа в името на една (бог) идея или друга (комунизъм, нацизъм, шовинизъм, колониализъм) идея е без значение. А в името божие са извършени чудовищно количество зверства. Интересното у бога на Достоевски е първо ясно посоченото наставление за обич и разбирателство. И на второ място - той е някакъв доста руски бог, както го нарича и Дмитрий, и определено изключва - да речем - “чифутите” - които са споменати подигравателно, и на всичкото отгоре се цитира ужасяващ и лъжлив памфлет от епохата как те ядат деца като първо ги режат къс по къс. Тъй че Достоевски също е продукт на епохата и е поел част от заблудите ѝ. Ако добавим и факта, че героините му до една са истерични, и истерията е считана в романа за естествено женско състояние, картинката е пълна. Друг въпрос, който не дава мира на автора, и то благороден въпрос - е този за бъдещето. Дотук докретахме някак, а сега накъде? Че идеите на просвещението са ерес, вече стана ясно. Свободата Достоевски също я разбира “по руски” и “по православному” - това е всъщност свобода да се избира между греха и добродетелта. Бъдещето, значи, трябва да е национално обусловено, религиозно и уникално само за Русия. Най-славното е, че в битката си между мироглед и метод, Достоевски е толкова неизчерпаемо богат в метода си, че далеч надхвърля собствения си мироглед! Крайните опасности под формата на шовинизъм и мистицизъм са безжалостно посочени. Почвеникът Достоевски очертава капаните на обичаната и следвана от него философска линия. Относно човешката душа като бойно поле на доброто и злото като тема в романа, на теми като що е семейство, що е престъпление, що е справедливост, що е обич - може да се пише още много пъти по много. Стихийната емоционалност на всички герои в романа, пълната им липса на каквато и да е равновесна точка между бездната на порока и отчаянието, и сияйните небеса на възвишеното и върховното благородство - е махало, което мята читателя във всички посоки. Истерията, гальовно наричана “руска душа”, е голяма и очарователна въпросителна… Страстите на героите са помитащи и безразличието пред мощта им не е опция. ———Достоевски не работи с нищо по-малко от вечността. И се отнася към задачата си сериозно, задълбочено и с уважение, както и сладкодумно и ерудирано. Най-вече искрено. Струва си човек да поспори с него. И да се поучи. И да се наслади на майсторското му перо.————————————————————————————————▶️ Цитати: 🪶“Той беше зъл и сантиментален.”🪶“Онзи, що лъже сам себе си и слуша собствената си лъжа, стига дотам, че вече никаква истина ни у себе си, ни наоколо може да различи и поради туй изпада в неуважение и към себе си, и към другите.”🪶“Не, широк е човекът, твърде широк даже, аз бих го стеснил.”🪶”Живописецът Крамской има една забележителна картина, наречена «Съзерцател»: гора зиме и в гората, на пьтя, в окъсан кафтан, с црвули, стои сам-самичък в най-дълбока самота залутан селянин, стои и сякаш се е замислил, но той не мисли, а нещо «съзерцава». Да го побутнете, той би трепнал и би ви загледал като пробуден, но без да разбира нещо. Наистина тутакси би се окопитил, но да го попиташ за какво е стоял и мислил, той навярно нищо няма да си спомни, ала затуй пък положително би затаил в себе си впечатлението, под което се е намирал през време на своето съерцание. Тези впечатления му са скъпи и той навярно ги трупа, незабелязано и без дори да съзнава — за какво и защо, разбира се, също не знае: може изведнаж, натрупал впечатления от много години, да махне с рька на всичко и да замине за Ерусалим, да се скита и да се спасява, а може изведнаж и родното си село да подпали - много е възможно обаче да направи и едното, и другото. Сред народа има доста съзерцатели.”🪶“…най-добре е хората да се запознават преди раздяла.”🪶“Именно ближните според мен е невъзможно да се обичат, а само далечните.”🪶“…звярът никога не може да бъде тъй жесток като човека, тъй артистично, тъй художествено жесток.”🪶“Отдавна съм решил да не разбирам. Ако поискам да разбера нещо, тутакси ще изменя факта, а съм решил да остана при факта…”🔥Великият инквизитор:🔥“Петнадесет века се мъчихме с тази свобода, но сега с това е свършено, и то окончателно.”“…нищо и никога не е било за човека и човешкото общество по-непоносимо от свободата!”“Нахрани ги и тогава искай от тях добродетели!”“…те ще поднесат своята свобода пред нашите нозе и ще ни кажат: “По-добре поробете ни, но нахранете ни.””“Ще разберат най-после сами, че свобода и земен хляб доволно за всеки са немислими заедно, защото никога, никога не ще съумеят те да се спогодят помежду си.”“Няма по-непрекъсната и по-мъчителна грижа за човека от тази — останал свободен, да намери по-скоро онзи, пред когото да се преклони.”“Но човекът търси да се преклони пред онова, което вече е безспорно, толкова безспорно, че всички хора наведнаж да се съгласят на всеобщо преклонение […] Ето тази потребност от общност е и най-главного мъчение за всеки човек….”“Има три сили, единствени три сили на земята, що могат навеки да победят и да пленят съвестта на тез слабосилни бунтовници за тяхното щастие: чудото, тайната и авторитетът.”“Но ти не знаеше, че щом само човек отхвърли чудото, тутакси ще отхвърли и бога, защото човекът търси не толкова бога, колкото чудесата.”“Защото кой друг ще владее хората, ако не онези, които владеят съвестта им и в чиито ръце са хлябовете им?”“О, ние ще ги убедим, че те само тогава ще станат свободни, когато се откажат от твоята свобода заради нас и ни се подчинят.”“Ще им докажем [на хората], че те са слабосилни, че са само жалки деца, но че детското щастие е по-сладко от всяко друго.”“Ние ще им кажем, че всеки грях ще бъде изкупен, щом бъде направен с наше позволение.”“Най-мъчителните тайни на съвестта си— всичко те ще съобщават нам и ние всичко ще разрешим и те ще повярват на нашето решение с радост, защото то ще ги избави от великата грижа и страшните сегашни мъки на личното и свободно решение.”🪶 „Що е ад?“ […] “Страданието, че вече не можеш да обичаш.“🪶“О, той плачеше в своя възторг дори и за тези звезди, които сияеха над него от бездната […] Сякаш нишки от всички тези безбройни божи светове се бяха събрали отведнъж в душата му и тя цяла трептеше, докосвайки се до други светове.”🪶“…почти всички хора със способности ужасно се страхуват да бъдат смешни и поради това са нещастни.”🪶“Не бъдете като всички: макар сам да останете друг, все пак бъдете друг.”🪶“Има минути, когато хората обичат престъплението.”🪶“…всички истински руси са философи…”🪶“Аз имам една добродетел, китаецът има друга, значи, тя е нещо относително. Или не е тъй? Или не е относително? Коварен въпрос! Не се смей, ако ти кажа, че две нощи не съм спал заради това.”🪶“Иван няма бог. Той има идея.”🪶“Много хора са честни, защото са глупаци.”🪶“Някои хора е по-изгодно да имаш в числото на враговете си, отколкото на приятелите си.”🪶“Ще се бием. Но за обичане, ще я обичам безкрайно.”🪶“Те бяха някакви влюбени един в друг врагове.”🪶“Без критика ще има само една «осанна». Но за живота не стига само «осанна», трябва тази «осанна» да преминава през топилнята на съмненията.»🪶“Ако всичко в живота беше благоразумно, нищо не би станало.”🪶“…желая неговото младо […] стремление към народните начала да не се обърне отпосле, както толкова место се случва, откъм нравствена страна - в мрачен мистицизъм, а от гражданска страна - в тъп шовинизъм - две качества, които заплашват може би с още по-голямо зло нацията […]”🪶“…ние дори се проникваме […] от най-благородни идеали, но само при условие, че те се достигат сами по себе си, да ни падат на масата от небето и главното, да бъде даром, дарим, нищо да не се плаща за тях.”🪶“…ние сме натури широки, карамазовски […] - способни да вместваме всевъзможни противоположности и едновременно да съзерцаваме двете бездни, бездната над нас, бездната на висшите идеали, и бездната под нас, бездната на най-ниското и зловонно падение.”🪶“Любов към баща, който не я заслужил, е нелепост.”🪶“Ах, дечица, ах, мили приятели, не се страхувайте от живота! Как хубав е животът, когато извършиш нещо хубаво и правдиво.”
3829375419	برادران کارامازوف یک شاهکار از داستایفسکی و یکی از برترین رمان‌های تاریخ روسیه است. در ابتدا باید بگم که من نسخه‌ی دوجلدی کتاب رو با ترجمه‌ی آقای پرویز شهدی خواندم٬ ترجمه ایشان در مورد محتوای کتاب قابل قبول و روان بود جز یکسری موارد که البته مهم هم بودند٬ همچون ترجمه آیه‌هایی از انجیل که فهمش به فهم بهتر اون بخش کمک می‌کرد اما ایشان فقط سعی داشت متن را به فارسی برگردان کند و به نظرم ارزش محتوایی آن بخش‌هارو به شدت پایین آورد٬ همچنین از نظر من اشعار روسی بسیار بی کیفیت ترجمه شده بود چون من در حال خواندن یک شاهکار روسی بودم و انتظار داشتم با ادبیات روسیه آشنا بشم نه یک چرک‌نویس فارسی و برای مثال یکی از اشعاری که در کتاب بود را ما هنوز هم که هنوزه در مجالس عیش و نوش ایرانی‌ها که از قدیمی‌ها به ارث رسیده و الان می‌فهمم از روسیه وارد ایران شده رو به بدترین شکل ممکن برگردان کرده در حالیکه کافی بود خود شعر کامل رو گوگل کند ( من زن سرباز نمی‌شم اگر بشم کشته میشم٬ من زن سرهنگ نمیشم چون کاری که سرهنگ میکنه...) به همین منظور پیشنهاد میکنم در مورد چنین کتاب‌هایی به دنبال ترجمه‌هایی بروید که مترجم آن را از زبان روسی مستقیما برگردان به فارسی کرده باشه و سایر دوستان هم رضایت داشته باشند از ترجمه. در مورد خود کتاب٬ آرزو میکنم روزی بشر به علمی دست پیدا کنه و بتونه آدم‌ها رو تکثیر کنه٬ آنوقت یکی از آدم‌هایی رو که باید تکثیر کرد داستایفسکی هست که باز هم برایمان بنویسد چون وقتی نوشته‌هاش رو بعد این همه سال می‌خوانیم تازه می‌فهمیم چقدر از زمان خودش جلوتر را می‌دید و افکارش را به چه زیبایی روی کاغذ می‌آورد. این کتاب مثل آش‌رشته‌ایه که تک تک اقلام درونش گرم به گرم به اندازه توسط یک آشپز حرفه‌ای پخته شده و همه از خوردنش لذت می‌برند٬ در جاهایی که لازمه طنز٬ جایی فلسفه٬ جایی اخلاق٬ جایی هشدار٬ جایی خرابات٬ جایی خداشناسی٬ جایی خودشناسی و ... همه چیز به اندازه‌ی لازم نه کمتر نه بیشتر. من به داستان ورود نمی‌کنم اما جزئیاتی که در داستان روایت میشه رو کافیه با دقت بخوانیم تا خود را در محیط پشت سر یا در کنار شخصیت‌های کتاب حس کنیم٬ وقتی روی هر کدام از شخصیت‌های کتاب فوکوس می‌کنیم حتی باطن او را می‌بینیم چه برسد به ظاهر او و این کاری بود که داستایفسکی به خوبی از پس آن در آمد. برادران کارامازوف انقدر کتاب مشهوری هست که نیاز به نوشتن ریویو نداره کافیه اسمش را سرچ کنیم تا هزاران ریویو از برترین منتقدان ادبی رو در موردش بخوانیم برای همین چیزی جز تعریف از کتاب و ستایش نویسنده ننوشتم. پیشنهاد میکنم حتما کتاب را بخوانید و به دوستانتان هدیه دهید، ضمنا این را بدانید که کتابی نیست که بعد یک بار خواندن آن را فراموش کنید.
1407640686	When trying to evaluate such a significant novel, one looks to its historical literary context and developments in style and language over the last 140 years in an attempt to explain its shortcomings. The truth is that when read with a modern eye The Karamazov Brothers ^ is an inconsistent novel, and not strikingly original. Rather, the opposite is apparent, as its devices have since become familiar influences for countless other works. For something that claims to be philosophical novel, so much of its word count is devoted simply to descriptions of characters and events, much of which are mundane and superfluous (so different to the succinct and incisive Notes from Underground!) If we are honest, most of the first 500 pages of the novel falls into this category. With some exceptions, the role of the first half of the novel is little more than to set up the conclusion, and there is just so much extraneous description and seeming lack of focus that reading it cannot be described as enjoyable. It is easy to see why this novel is so often abandoned. However if one can get through the first half of the novel, the remainder, or more specifically the last 300 or so pages rewards the effort. And because the first half of the novel renders the second half possible, and in fact brings it retroactively to life, I am inclined to regard the entire novel highly based on the merits of the later parts.As to the content of the story itself and its explorations I won’t go into detail (there are plenty of reviews which cover this already), only to say there is a complexity, richness and nuance that exceeded my expectations. The characters (though often excessively flamboyant or dramatic, sometimes comically so) contain genuine human limitations and contradictions, which together encapsulate the broad possibilities of human experience and whose nature and actions are open to endless interpretation. There is a level of philosophising which is overt in the discourses of the novel, and a secondary level which is hidden in the actions of the characters and evident only under examination. There is so much here beneath the surface, I feel that one could never approach the limits of what this novel has to offer. The Karamazov Brothers is by no means a perfect novel, but it undoubtedly deserves its reputation as one of the greatest.* * * * * ^ (view spoiler)[ In case you were wondering, the translator of this edition explains the variation in the title:“One need go no further than the title, the standard English rendering of which is The Brothers Karamazov. This follows the original word order, the only one possible in Russian in this context. Had past translators been expressing themselves freely in natural English, without being hamstrung by that original Russian word order, they would no more have dreamt of saying The Brothers Karamazov than they would The Brothers Warner or The Brothers Marx.”This explanation is compelling enough to me, yet the more “correct” title still sounds odd at first, and loses some of the authority of the distinctive traditional title, with its word order which in English seems for some reason exclusively reserved for Karamazovs and Grimms. (hide spoiler)]
3536308504	داستایفسکی کبیر کتاب برادران کارامازوف را به مانند جدالی بین نیکی و بدی ،خیر وشر ، شک وایمان ، جبر و اختیار ، سکون و طغیان ، ثبات و تزلزل آفریده . شخصیت های او هم بازتاب همین احساسات هستند ، آنها شر مطلق یا فرشته خوبی نیستند ، آنها بسته به شرایط واکنش نشان می دهند ، گاهی ساکت هستند و صبور و گاهی هم طغیان می کنند ، آنها قربانی دوران خود هستند اما هم متهم هستند و هم متهم می کنند . کارامازوف ها آماده طغیان و سرکشی هستند ، سرشار از خشم و نفرت همانند دیگر کتابهای استاد باز هم جنایتی صورت گرفته و این آغاز سفری ایست برای کارامازوفها که همانند راسکلینیکوف جنایت و مکافات که آشفته و سرگشته شوند ، به شک بیافتند ، مسیری را طی کنند و خواننده را همسفر خود کنند در این راه ، تا با تیپهایی متفاوت دیگر هم آشنا شود ، از پیر سالک گرفته تا خدمتکار و خانواده او . افراد زیادی که معرف وضعیت و طرز فکر روسیه آن زمان هستند . استاد این خصوصیت های متفاوت را بین کارامازوف ها هم تقسیم کرده و البته بیشتر صفات مثبت را به آلیوشا داده ، او را انسانی مهربان و جذاب و با خدا به تصویر کشیده ، انسانی بزرگوار که میان برادران خود میانجیگری می کند ، انسانی که خود را وقف عشق به همنوع خود می کند ، انسانی کامل و مطلوب استاد .ایوان را هم جوانی روشنفکر و بی خدا دانسته که دل خوشی هم از زندگی ندارد ، با هوش است وآگاه ، ایوان میل به شورش و طغیان دارد ، او از مظاهر روسیه قدیم بیزار است ، شاید نماینده نسل جوان روسیه و صدای خطری باشد که داستایفسکی روسیه را از آن می ترساند .دیمیتری پسر بزرگ خانواده بیشترین شباهت را به پدرش دارد ، او خشن است و برده شهوت ، هم ساده است و هم جاهل ، می خواره ایست ولخرج که ارزش پول را نمی داند . اما صفات خوبی هم دارد ، دروغ نمی گوید و حقیقت جو ست ، دیمیتری نماینده اکثریت جامعه روسیه است ، فاجعه داستان برای او رخ می دهد و دیمیتری را عازم آن سفر معنوی و طولانی می کند تا از نو متولد شود . اما پدر خانواده فیودور کارامازوف شخصی ایست به تمام معنی مبتذل ، حقیر و بی ریشه . این فرد ناچیز عشق و محبت خود را از فرزندانش دریغ کرده و وقت خود را به عیاشی گذرانده . داستایفسکی با نشان دادن ذات خبیث این مرد و رفتار او با فرزندانش خواننده را متقاعد می کند که این فرد نباید وجود داشته باشد . فیودور شر و سیاهی را در دنیا دنباله دار کرده ، سامردیاکوف پسر نامشروع او که مهربانی و اهمیتی از فیودور ندیده در زندگی فیودور و داستان کتاب نقش مهمی بازی خواهد کرد . اما پیرمرد که در دوران حیات زندگی پسران خود را به گند کشیده بود پس از مرگ نیز دست بردار آنها نیست ، چگونگی و چرایی به قتل رسیدن او دست استاد را برای بحثهای فلسفی آزاد می گذارد . داستایفسکی به دقت حالات روانی و ذهنی کارامازوف ها را شرح داده . او خواننده را با خود به تاریک ترین اعماق ذهن آنها برده تا به او بفهماند که همه در این جنایت سهم دارند . کتاب چند خطابه مفصل و سنگین دارد که خواننده بنا به سلیقه خود آنها را می تواند خسته کننده یا جذاب بیابد . اولین آنها صحبت طولانی ایوان با برادرش آلیوشا در باب روشن فکری و ایمان است و دیگری نطق درخشان فتیوکوویچ وکیل مدافع دیمیتری . یا صحنه مواجه شدن ایوان با شیطان و احساس او قبل و بعد از مکالمه .در مورد ترجمه فارسی کتاب ، بار اول که آن را خواندم با ترجمه جناب صالح حسینی بود که سخت خوان بودن کتاب در کنار ترجمه سنگین آقای حسینی باعث شد که خواندن کتاب را پس از 400 صفحه آن کنار بگذارم اما ترجمه پرویز شهدی علاوه بر ساده بودن و پرهیز عامدانه او در استفاده کردن از واژه های نامانوس و سنگین باعث شد که خواندن کتاب به تجربه ای شیرین و جذاب و پر کشش برایم تبدیل شود . گرچه برادران کارامازوف به هر صورت کتابی ایست سخت خوان که مطالعه آن اندکی صبر و حوصله و زمان و البته ذهن آزاد نیاز دارد .
5708946663	ادغام درد و شعف، همچون یک غش صرع :در میان انبوهی از تفسیرها، نقدها و ستایش‌هایی که از میان بزرگان جهان به این اثر ازلیِ شکاک اعظم وارد شده، دیگر دل و دماغی برای نوشتن از آن باقی نمی‌ماند. گفتنی ها را، بهترین‌ها پیش از این گفته‌اند.پس عجالتا از همان صحبت‌های همیشگی درباره شک و ایمان، وجود خدا، الحاد، انگیزه‌های پدرکشی، راه‌های رستگاری، ماحصل رنج و تاثیر زندگی شخصی نویسنده بر آثارش و بخصوص این یکی، می‌گذرم. سعی می‌کنم از حاشیه‌های برخوردم با این ابر اثر بنویسم. از شخصی‌ترین برخوردها.مثل هر پسر بچه‌ای که تازه کله‌ش بوی قرمه سبزی گرفته و پی این است که التهابات مغزش را که بخاطر سوال‌هایش ورم کرده را با کتاب آرام کند، داستایفسکی بسیار زود کشف شد و بسیار دیر خوانده شد. معلم انشایی داشتم که مشوق اولی و اصلی من برای کتاب خواندنم بود. کرد بود و با صورتی شش تیغ و سبیل کلفت سفید اما مرتب که صدای بم و ته لهجه‌ی کردی‌اش، صلابت و نفوذی داشت که هر کلامی که خطاب به من بود برایم تاثیر زیادی داشت. خوشبخت بودم که همیشه از آن آدم تعریف شنیدم وگرنه نمیدانم اگر حرف تند یا مخربی به من زده بود چطور با آن کنار می‌آمدم. عادت داشتم همیشه آخر زنگ انشا بروم پیشش و یک ربعی درباره مطالبی که اخیرا نوشتم یا کتاب‌هایی که خواندم با او صحبت کنم. هر انشا یا داستان یا هرچیز دیگری که می‌نوشتم در واقع به نوعی کلنجار ذهنم بود با آخرین کتاب یا کتاب‌هایی که خوانده بودم به علاوه‌ی تجربیات اخیرم، در نتیجه برای او بسیار جالب می‌آمد. همیشه می‌گفت آخرین چیزی که نوشتی را بیاور، می‌برم خانه می‌خوانم و برایت می‌آورم.می‌برد خانه و می‌خواند اما نمی‌آورد. این برایم حتی لذت‌بخش‌تر بود. هر کتابی که می‌خواندم تشویق او را به همراه داشت تا اینکه یکبار دیگر با اطمینان تشویقم نکرد و تا حدی شوکه شد. روزی بود که حین گپ و گفت به او گفتم می‌خواهم ابله داستایفسکی را بخوانم. چیزی نگفت. فهمیدم که بایستی مراقب این یکی باشم.از آن پس هر کتابی که میخواندم، در واقع پیش درآمدی بود برای کتاب‌های داستایفسکی. یا حداقل شاهکارهای او. همیشه بی‌پروا سراغ سخت‌ترین ها می‌رفتم و اتفاقا تبدیل به نویسنده‌های محبوبم می‌شدند؛ فاکنر، وولف، جویس، ساباتو، رولفو و ... اما داستایفسکی همیشه عجزی غریب همراهش بود. دویست جلد کتاب خوانده بودم که تازه جرئت کردم یادداشت‌های زیرزمینی را بخوانم. صد و خورده‌ای جلد دیگر خواندم تا آماده شوم جنایت و مکافات را بخوانم. خیزی که برای ابله برداشته بودم هم همین حدود لازمه‌اش بود. و الان هم که برادران کارامازوف ( طبعا می‌بایست قبل از برادران کارامازوف ، شیاطین را می‌خواندم اما از آنجایی که بنا بر خوانده‌ها و شنیده‌هایم آن کتاب هر آن چیزی که از ادبیات می‌خواهم را یکجا دارد، آن را کنار گذاشتم برای کویرترین روزهای زندگی‌ام به لحاظ حظ ادبی و کتاب‌خوانی ).جنایت و مکافات را چهار روزه خواندم. اولین هفته‌ای بود که بخاطر کرونا دانشگاه تعطیل شده بود و فکر می‌کردیم از هفته‌ی بعدش دوباره برمیگردیم سر کلاس. زمان محدودمان اقتضا می‌کرد که بیشترین کار را در کمترین زمان انجام بدهیم و من در آن یک هفته سه شاهکار مدام منتظر فرصت را خواندم. ابله را نه روزه خواندم، آن هم بنا بر شرایط مجبور بودم تقریبا زود بخوانم. برادران کارامازوف جلد اول حدود یک ماه طول کشید و خواندن جلد دوم حدود دو ماه و فاصله بین خواندنشان هم حدود هفت ماه. به بیانی این کتاب را اول مرداد شروع و اوایل اردیبهشت تمام کردم. این هم بنا به شرایط آنقدر طول کشید.به نحوه خواندن این کتاب‌ها که نگاه می‌کنم می‌بینم که هرچند زمان و شرایط حکم کردند که همگی آن‌ها زودتر از معمول یا بسیار دیرتر از معمول به سرانجام برسند اما وجه مشترکشان این بود که مهم نبود چند روزه خوانده شوند، همگی آثار داستایفسکی تازه بعد از خوانده شدن در ذهنم شروع می‌شدند. ( ولی در نهایت توصیه می‌کنم که اگر امکانش را دارید، اصولی‌تر از من بخوانید ).برادران کارامازوف، ملغمه‌ای از شخصیت‌ها و عقایدی است که همه‌ی آن‌ها نشانگر بخشی از کاراکتر داستایفسکی است. چیزی که من برایم بیشتر ملموس می‌آمد، تقلاها و چالش‌های نویسنده‌ای بود که سعی می‌کرد با بسط دادن داستانش، خودش را برای خودش شفاف کند.نوری بیلگه جیلان، فیلمساز درجه اول ترک که به گفته‌ی خودش بیش از فیلمسازان بزرگ، متاثر از چخوف و داستایفسکی است، در مصاحبه‌ای به نکته بسیار شفاف کننده‌ای اشاره می‌کند. او می‌گوید داستایفسکی با ایمان نیست بلکه تمام عمرش تقلا که به ایمان برسد. و این در تک تک آثارش مشهود است. هرچند که شخصیت با ایمان آلیوشا را در برادران کارامازوف ، با داستایفسکی متاخر مقایسه می‌کنند و می‌گویند که هر یک از برادران نمایانگر دوره‌ای از زندگی داستایفسکی است که البته بی‌راه هم نیست اما من کماکان به شک بنیادینی که تا آخر راه یقه‌ی او را ول نکرد، اعتقاد بیشتری دارم. تنها چیزی که ظاهراً تا آخر عمر بدان معتقد ماند، البته شاید حتی این یکی هم صرفا تلقینی مکرر بود که به خود بقبولاند به آن اعتقاد دارد، رستگاری زاده رنج بود که تفسیر و تشریح آن بماند بر عهده مفسرین و برداشت های شخصی مخاطبان این اثر چرا اینجا نه جای مناسبی برای این کار است و نه من آنقدر فاضل که جرئت پرداخت به آن را داشته باشم.هر خرده روایت این کتاب هم کلاس درسی است چه برسد به پلات‌های اصلی داستان. به وضوح می‌بینم که فیلمسازان بزرگ یا نویسنده‌های بزرگ با یک ادای دین کوچک و یا اقتباس از بخش کوچکی از این کتاب، چگونه به اثر خود اعتبار می‌دهند و چگونه بخش زیادی از جهان‌بینی خود را با وصف بخش بسیار کوچکی از این کتاب به رخ می‌کشند پس چیزی کمتر از ارجاع مدام مخاطبان جدی تفکر به این کتاب، روا نیست.اثری که ممکن است هر روز در شما زنده شود، شما را بیازارد و در تعلیق‌های ابدی نگه دارد اما از شما انسان بهتری بسازد.شاید مصداق همان آیه از انجیل یوحنا، که داستایفسکی به مثابه چکیده وجودش بر سر در این کتاب حک کرده : اگر دانه نمیرد، تنها ماند اما اگر بمیرد ثمر بسیار آورد.در باب ترجمه : اصولاً باید شخصی مسلط به زبان روسی، نتیجه‌ی ترجمه‌ها را بررسی می‌کرد ولی با تقلیل به اکتفا کردن صرفا بر مبنای فارسیِ ترجمه، ترجمه‌ی استاد رستگار یک سر و گردن بالاتر از ترجمه‌ی آقایان صالح حسینی، احد علیقلیان و پرویز شهدی بود که من کمابیش تطبیق دادم. جدای از لحن اثر، تسلط و تحقیق‌های مفصل آقای رستگار در باب عهد عتیق و جدید، برای انتقال بهتر حال و هوای داستایفسکی مزید بر علت است. بنابراین این پیشنهاد می‌کنم مادامی که ترجمه‌ی مستقیم و خوبی از روسی وجود ندارد، این کتاب و ترجمه‌ش را غنیمت بدانید.اردیبهشت هزار و چهارصد و سه
2589898601	11th book of 2022. “I dislike intensely The Brothers Karamazov and the ghastly Crime and Punishment rigmarole," so Nabokov once said. I disagree with him on the latter, I think it's a brilliant novel, and I don't intensely dislike this, but Nabokov's view has allowed me to feel slightly less alone. 3.5. Often called the 'greatest book ever written', it's hard not to go in with some high hopes. It's even harder having read Crime and Punishment and loved it. The problem was, I knew this was a different sort of novel, denser, longer, more overtly philosophical. Most of the time I could only read this in fairly short chunks, most of the time not even managing 50 pages a day, which I would, usually, easily read of a big novel. The 'plot', the murder mystery/courtroom drama as the blurb suggests is really a selling point, these two things don't come around until the final third of the novel. The first 2/3 of the novel is mostly giant tirades on morality, religion and the relationships between the characters, the brothers and various women in the story. Considering its reputation, I barely underlined anything though I found many bits interesting. The characters were all very good but at times I struggled to care about what they had to say. The last portion of the novel was good and putting the novel down I felt its collected power accumulating inside me which is always a good sign. Reading isn't always pleasant but can still reap wonderful rewards and feelings. I guess this is one of those books. As far as the big Russian novels goes, this one falls in with Anna Karenina as being a great novel, having my respect, but ultimately being a little disappointing. For me the pinnacle so far remains to be War and Peace which completely bowled me over with its brilliance. I guess you could say I'm more Tolstoy than Dostoyevsky [1], but I'd also want to read more of both before saying anything final. Putting it aside I feel like the message of the book is a wonderful one and I will have to read it again when I'm older and wiser; in a way I'm glad I read it in my mid-twenties so when I can read it in my 30s or 40s I can (hopefully) think to myself, what an idiot I was in my twenties! And then know for certain how much wiser I've become, and maybe better, too. _________________________[1] In the choosing favourites game with natural pairs, Camus v. Sartre, Balzac v. Zola, Hemingway v. Fitzgerald, etc.
45260941	I've read the Brothers K maybe five or six times in the Constance Garnett edition--Garnett translated all the major 19th Century Russian authors, and was the first to translate Dostoevsky into English. Respect due, but her translations (re Brodsky and Nabokov) lack sensitivity to the language of the individual writers. Pevear and Volokhonsky's translations do not suffer this, and the new translation of Doestoyevsky's masterpiece is amazing. Who knew Dostoevsky was funny? But the father is funny/awful/funny/awful in the most brilliant way. Every time I read this book, it's different, because I'm different. Great literature is such a mirror that way. Doestoyevsky saved my life as a young person. The overheated claustrophobic drama that was my life found its explication.They say that Dostoyevsky tied a girl to the tracks in the first fifty pages of every novel, and this is absolutely true of The Brothers Karamazov. A horrible, awful, hilariously dirty old man is found bludgeoned to death, and it seems one of his very different sons is the culprit. As I've aged, I've identified with different brothers--it's almost like 'which Beatle do you like the best?' When I was young it was the brooding young intellectual nihilist, Ivan. I was an "Ivan." It's Ivan who has the famous encounter with the Grand Inquisitor. Then there was the angelic son Alyosha. Can't we just get along? Great embrace of the poor, a spiritual young man, living his beliefs. Finally there's the passionate, headstrong Dmitri, who boils over and smashes things up, and is passionately in love with the questionable Grushenka--who I later identified with, (and I think is the true hero of the book). There's also an illegitimate half-brother in the wings, Smerdyakov, and even his name tells you what Dostoyevsky thinks of him--the likely product of a rape of a simple girl, a holy fool, and the grotesque senior Karamazov. It's a great epic contest of spirit and earth, of passion and greed and everything else under the sun. If only one book were to be saved at the end of the world... to encapsulate the range of the Human Condition, who we were and what we did on earth, for me it would be a tie between the Brothers Karamazov and Ulysses.
6066232881	The Brothers Karamazov is Dostoevsky's last major novel, and the work established him not only as a great Russian writer but as one of the great writers in world literature. The book incorporates themes from his earlier novels but more fully develops them. It contains the ideas with which he is most closely associated and perhaps his most famous fictional story, The Grand Inquisitor. Dostoevsky's Challange to Western IdeasAs with his earlier novels, the adverse impact of Western philosophy on Russian Orthodox Christian society remains a preoccupation in The Brothers Karamazov. As an overriding theme, the book considers the influence of atheistic socialism and its attendant nihilism. In Crime and Punishment, Dostoevsky focused on a young student becoming radicalized by nihilistic ideas. The Brothers Karamazov focuses on the influence of these ideas on the Russian working class. Portrayed as an atheist who denies individual immortality, Ivan Karamazov holds the philosophy that "the moral law of nature must immediately be changed into the complete opposite of the previous religious law, and egoism, even if it comes to crime, must not only be permitted to men, but even recognized as necessary, as the most rational and, in effect, the noblest outcome demanded by this situation." (1) As a shorthand for this thinking, Dostoevsky adopts the phrase "everything is permitted," meaning if God does not exist, then all moral restraints are lifted. Ivan's nihilism influences the thinking of a household servant, Smerdyakov. As a cold theorist, Ivan views Smerdyakov as "the cannon fodder of progress." (2) Such chilly rationality calls to mind the white Marxist in Ralph Ellison's The Invisible Man, who views black agitators as expendable within the revolutionary framework of Marxist theory. Dostoevsky invites readers to consider the distinction between a person considering radical ideas as an armchair thinker versus someone who lives according to such ideas. Ivan asserts nihilistic thinking as pure theory without considering its practical implications. Ivan's theoretical neutrality is reminiscent of Thomas Jefferson's thought in Notes on the State of Virginia. Jefferson asserted, "it does me no injury for my neighbor to say there are twenty gods, or no God. It neither picks mypocket nor breaks my leg." Such thinking prompted Reverend William Linn to respond, "Let my neighbor once persuade himself that there is no God, and he will soon pick my pocket, and break not only my leg but my neck. If there be no God, there is no law." (3)The Grand Inquisitor and The Russian MonkThe Grand Inquisitor portion of The Brothers Karamazov is the most well-known portion of the novel. Indeed, as Michael Katz notes in the Afterword, The Grand Inquisitor has been published as a standalone book, leading readers to conclude that the story represents the sum of Dostoevsky's thinking on religious faith. As Michael Katz notes, Dostoevsky intended The Russian Monk portion of the novel to be the answer of faith to the radical skepticism of the Grand Inquisitor. In writing The Grand Inquisitor, Dostoevsky drew on his journey from unbelief to Christian faith, noting that "it is not like a child that I believe in Christ and confess Him. My hosanna has come forth from the crucible of doubt." Dostoevsky would say of The Grand Inquisitor, "You might search Europe in vain for so powerful an expression of atheism." (4) Indeed, Dostoevsky worried that the story was such a powerful "denial of God" that it would overwhelm The Russian Monk as a response. (5)The Grand InquisitorIvan narrates the story of the Grand Inquisitor to his brother Alyosha. The story is set in the time of the Spanish Inquisition. Christ momentarily returns to earth, performs miracles, and then is imprisoned by The Grand Inquisitor.The Grand Inquisitor accuses Christ of abandoning humanity. Unlike Christ, who was able to resist the temptation of the devil to turn stone into bread, society cannot live "by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God" (King James Version, Matthew 4.4). People are overwhelmed by a need for temporal satisfaction, yet they have grave forgiveness of sin. In response to this need, a future society will emerge where people indulge in the flesh and are granted forgiveness by a select group of overlords. These state guardians will control every aspect of the people's lives. The rulers, hardened in atheism and aligned with the devil, will know that the faith of the people is based on lies. In such a society, the people will be blissfully ignorant and happy in their indulgent lives. The Grand Inquisitor finishes questioning Christ and demands a response. Christ "approaches the old man in silence and kisses him softly on his withered and bloodless lips. That is his only answer." The Grand Inquisitor angrily sends Christ away, ordering him never to return. Then Dostoevsky writes, "The kiss burns in his heart, but the old man holds fast to his idea." Dostoevsky depicts a person so hardened in unbelief that nothing can persuade him, not even receiving the forgiveness and love of Christ directly. (6)The Russian MonkIn contrast to the pride and haughtiness of The Grand Inquisitor, The Russian Monk is humble and generous in spirit. In this portion of the novel, Dostoevsky portrays the life and teachings of a fictional Russian Orthodox priest, Father Zosima. He is especially concerned with ministering to the common people of Russia in his vocation as a priest. Father Zosima realizes that atheism has infiltrated the minds of upper-class Russians. Rather than trying to convince through arguments, the priest believes, "Only the people and its future spiritual strength will convert our atheists." (7)Father Zosima recognizes the scientific advancements in society. While these trends have allowed the wealthy to "regard themselves as above God's people," this has led to "isolation and spiritual suicide." As for the poor, "envy and insatiability of needs are drowned in drunkenness." Foreseeing possible trouble for Russian society, the priest notes that "soon instead of wine," the poor "will drink blood; they are being brought to that." (8) Despite the warning signs of social unrest, society will realize that "There is equality only in the spiritual dignity of man." In the end, Russia "will preserve the image of Christ, and it will shine forth like a precious diamond to the whole world." (9)Ivan Karamazov and the DevilIn 1862, Dostoevsky traveled through Western Europe and later published his thoughts on what he witnessed in Winter Notes on Summer Impressions. He visited London's Crystal Palace, a vast glass structure showcasing the technological advancements of the day. Dostoevsky was overcome by its Tower of Babel-like nature as he took in the Crystal Palace. "You feel a terrible force that has united all these people here, who come from all over the world, into a single herd...You feel that it would require a great deal of eternal spiritual resistance and denial not to succumb, not to surrender to the impression, not to bow down to fact, and not to idolize Baal, that is, not to accept what is as your ideal." (10)Continuing to develop the idea of an exclusive focus on the here and now in The Brothers Karamazov, Dostoevsky imagines the devil appearing to Ivan Karamazov. Instead of the Rolling Stones' "man of wealth and taste," Dostoevsky imagines the devil as appearing to "have gradually fallen into poverty and had turned into something like a sponger of the best class." The devil reflects Ivan's guilty conscience and an actual being. He torments Ivan with the consequences of his everything is permitted philosophy and his authorship of The Grand Inquisitor. Trying to draw Ivan further into a labyrinth of despair, the devil gloats about a "new era" in which "the man-god will appear. From hour to hour extending his conquest of nature infinitely by his will and his science, as each day passes man will experience such joy and exaltation in his accomplishment that it will make up for all his old dreams of the joys of heaven." (11) In his portrait of Ivan's vision of the devil, Dostoevsky shows the pull and ultimate emptiness of a focus on the here and now. He also demonstrates the psychological consequences of adhering to radical nihilist philosophy. The Brothers Karamazov is one of the world's great novels. Few novels come close to its depth of content and the psychological range of its characters. While it is a Russian novel preoccupied with issues of its time and place, it deals with lasting issues in a way that appeals to readers worldwide. Notes1. Dostoevsky, Fyodor. The Brothers Karamazov. Translated by Michael R. Katz. Liveright Publishing Corporation, 2003, p. 84. 2. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 160.3. Allen, Brooke. "Jefferson the Skeptic." The Hudson Review. vol. LIX, no. 2, Summer 2006. pp. 193-217. https://www.jstor.org/stable/204645554. A Summary of the Grand Inquisitor. https://web.pdx.edu/~tothm/religion/S.... Accessed 18 February 2024.5. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 898.6. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 311.7. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 348.8. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 369.9. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 371.10. Dostoevsky, Fyodor. Winter Notes on Summer Impressions. Translated by David Patterson. Northwestern University Press, 1988, p. 37.11. Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, p. 751.
6817126484	برادران کارامازوف، عجب شاهکاری! خوندنش فقط سه روز طول کشید و این در حالیه که با جنایت و مکافات سه ماه درگیر بودم😭 با این حساب می‌تونم بگم که این کتاب موردعلاقه‌ام از آقای داستایفسکی هست. در حدی که از تمام فصل‌ها، صفحات و تک تک جملات خوشم اومد.اگه عمری باشه حتماً دوباره می‌خونمش و از سرگذشت این سه برادر متفاوت لذت می‌برم.
2936916992	بلاخره تموم شد 😅😅کتاب سختی رو برای شروع از داستایوسکی انتخاب کردم و کاش اول سراغ کتاب های کم حجم ترش رفته بودم . خیلی جاها خسته میشدم و میخواستم ادامه ندم اما خوشحالم جا نزدم.
4170292474	Una de las novelas más emblemáticas de la literatura rusa y habiéndola leído es fácil entender porqué.Dostoievski crea una historia extensa, profunda, erguida sobre pilares filosóficos, espirituales y de crítica social. Partiendo del conflicto intrafamiliar entre un padre déspota y sus tres y muy diferentes hijos, consigue construir una exploración de algunas de las grandes inquietudes humanas. Pasión, ira, ansia. Libre albedrío, responsabilidad, culpa.La novela no impone una verdad con carácter absoluto sino que da voz a múltiples personajes con posiciones y convicciones que difieren y les permite elaborar, defender, triunfar o condenarse por sí mismos sin juzgarlos y dando lugar al lector para conectar, contradecir y absolver a quien quiera. El conflicto entre fe y razón, tanto como la disección del mal y su vinculación con la libertad humana son dos de los temas más fascinantes que propone el autor en medio de una trama sobre rivalidades románticas, parricidio y búsqueda de culpables. La complejidad psicológica atraviesa, envuelve y define la obra junto con su lenguaje elevado y diálogos inolvidables.Es extensa, es difícil, pero es ciertamente imprescindible.
611694556	¡La gran novela de los extremos! ¡La elástica concepción del Hombre que va del cielo al infierno! De Aleksei a Fiodor Pavlovich, de Smerdiakov a Fenia, de Zosima a Trifon Borisich. Hay aquí amplitud entre contrarios como para generar un espacio literario formidable, habitado por personajes de inusitada carnalidad. Eso sí, al conjunto hay que quererlo con sus defectos, que los tiene. No sirve de nada apartar del plato aquello que nos hace torcer el gesto. Es deber del lector tragarlo todo mezclado, engullirlo hasta el final, procurando caer en una fabulosa indigestión.
5139767563	Literatur als verzweifelte Weltablehnungsgeste – ein Anti-Evangelium.Inhalt: 5/5 Sterne (existenziell-theologischer Mordfall) Form: 5/5 Sterne (fließend-klassisch-rund)Erzählstimme: 3/5 Sterne (unzuverlässig-angreifbar)Komposition: 5/5 Sterne (operettenhaft-polyphon)Leseerlebnis: 5/5 Sterne (psychologischer Sog)-->23/25=4,6 SterneErschienen in den Jahren 1878-80 Die Brüder Karamasoff bildet die Summa des gesamten literarischen Schaffens von Fjodor M. Dostojewski, der ein Jahr nach Beenden des Romans gestorben ist. Tatsächlich sticht der letzte Roman neben Die Dämonen, Der Idiot und Schuld und Sühne heraus, nicht nur hinsichtlich der Länge. In keinem anderen Roman wird die Montage, die Erzählung in der Erzählung so weit getrieben wie im Falle des Karamasoffschen Vatertodes, mit der Legende des Großinquisitor als Herzstück von Dostojewskis Gedankengebäude schlechthin. Selbst die quälendsten Geheimnisse ihres Gewissens, – alles, alles werden sie zu uns tragen, und wir werden ihnen verzeihen, und sie werden mit Freuden unserer Entscheidung glauben, denn sie wird sie von der großen Sorge und den furchtbaren gegenwärtigen Qualen einer persönlichen und freien Entscheidung erlösen. Und alle werden glücklich sein, alle Millionen Wesen, außer den Hunderttausend, die über sie herrschen. Denn nur wir, wir, die wir das Geheimnis hüten, nur wir werden unglücklich sein. Es wird Tausende von Millionen glücklicher Kinder geben und nur hunderttausend Märtyrer, die den Fluch der Erkenntnis von Gut und Böse auf sich genommen haben. Still werden sie sterben, still werden sie verlöschen in Deinem Namen und hinter dem Grabe nur den Tod finden.Der Plot lässt sich schnell zusammenfassen: Eine Familie befindet sich im Aufruhr. Der älteste Sohn verschwendet Geld und verstrickt sich in Schulden, buhlt mit dem eigenen Vater um eine Geliebte, unterdessen der Bruder auf die Verlobte des ältesten schielt. Gesagt getan, Geld muss her, um die Frau zu bezirzen, und das Geld hat der Vater, aber er sitzt geizig drauf. Eines Nachts wird dieser erschlagen in seinem Haus aufgefunden und der Briefumschlag, in welchem sich Geld befand, liegt leer vor dem Bett. Was ist passiert?Hier der Clou von Die Brüder Karamasoff, den der Großinquisitor preisgibt. Es gilt das Geheimnis zu ertragen. Nochmehr, es gilt dem Blick hinter den Vorhang zu vermeiden, denn wie Nietzsche sagt: „Und wenn du lange in einen Abgrund blickst, blickt der Abgrund auch in dich hinein.“ Das Thema schlechthin von Dostojewskis Roman: eine Welt, die aus den Fugen geraten ist, die in den Kommerz, in die Amerikanisierung hineinschlittert und den wahren Glauben an das Unendliche verliert, mimt den unaufhaltsamen Aufstieg und reißt alles mit. Mit nur ein paar Ausnahmen, bspw. Aljoscha, der jüngste Bruder, der den Glauben an das direkte und unverbrüchlich Zwischenmenschliche im Romangefüge repräsentiert: Doch plötzlich wandte Aljoscha sich um und verließ die Zelle. Er blieb nicht auf der Treppe stehen, sondern eilte hinunter auf den Rasen. Seine von Jubel erfüllte Seele dürstete nach Freiheit, nach Raum und Weite. Über ihm wölbte sich weit, breit und unabsehbar die Himmelskuppel, übersät mit stillen, flimmernden Sternen. Vom Zenit bis zum Horizont zog sich noch, undeutlich schimmernd, der neblige Streifen der Milchstraße. Eine kühle und bis zur Unbeweglichkeit stille Nacht umfing die Erde.In Die Brüder Karamasoff fährt Dostojewski alles auf, um vor der Individualisierung, der abstrakten Staatsmaschinerie, den religiösen, unsittlichen Kircheninfrastrukturen zu warnen, denn all das findet nur statt, so die These, wenn Menschen vereinzelt, hilflos, isoliert werden und nicht die Kraft haben, aus sich heraus, wie Aljoscha das Unendliche zu ergreifen. Leider zerbricht der Roman an der eigenen These, denn er, der Roman selbst, ist der schaulustige, voyeurhafte Blick in den Abgrund und auch hier zeigt sich, dass Nietzsche und Dostojewski sich näher stehen, als letzterer angesichts Nietzsches Unglauben wohl wahrhaben hätte wollen. Dostojewskis Roman gerät, in sich widersprüchlich, zur verzweifelten, in überbordendem Maße Weltabwehrgeste und fällt ganz tief in sie hinein. ------------------------------------------------------------------Details – ab hier Spoilergefahr (zur Erinnerung für mich): ------------------------------------------------------------------Inhalt: ●Hauptfigur(en): Dmitrij und Ivan Karamasoff. ●Zusammenfassung/Inhaltsangabe: Haupthandlung: Ins Rollen kommt die Handlung durch Katerinas Vater, der als Beamter Geld veruntreut hat und 4500 Rubel zurückerstatten muss. Die Familie hat das Geld nicht. Dmitrij, der sich gerade sein Erbe auszahlen lassen hat, überlässt Katerina das Geld, nachdem sie persönlich bei ihm vorgesprochen hat. Sie kniet zu Boden vor ihm. Das Geld rettet die Ehre des Vaters, der kurz darauf stirbt. Katerina zieht nach Moskau, lernt eine Generalwitwe kennen und erhält ein Vermögen. Sie zahlt das Geld Dmitrij zurück und bietet sich, von ihrem Reichtum berichtend und obwohl sie von seinem unsittlichen Lebenswandel weiß, unterwürfig als Braut an. Dmitrij geschockt, fühlt sich nicht würdig, weicht aus und schickt stattdessen Iwan, der auch in Moskau weilt, zu ihr. Dieser verliebt sich nun in Katerina. Später reist Dmitrij nach Moskau, die Verlobung wird gefeiert. Er reist wieder zurück zum Vater, ob der Erbangelegenheiten im Streit, erhält aber vor seiner Abreise aus Moskau von Katerina den Auftrag, heimlich ihrer Halbschwester Agafja Iwanowna 3000 Rubel nach Moskau aus einer Gouvernementsstadt zukommen zu lassen. Wieder zurück, hört er, dass sein Vater einer gewissen Agrafena Alexandrowna Swetlow, genannt Gruschenka, ihm einen von Dmitrijs Wechsel zur Vollstreckung überlassen hat. Er fährt zu ihr, um ihr zu drohen und verliebt sich Hals über Kopf und schmeißt eine riesige Fete von dem Geld Katerinas in Mokroje. Zentraler Konflikt: Ivan liebt Katerina, die Verlobte Dmitrijs. Dmitrij hat sich in den Schwarm seines Vaters Gruschenka verliebt, und hierbei 3000 Rubel verzecht, die Katerina gehören. Dmitrij muss irgendwie die 3000 Rubel auftreiben, um vor Katerina nicht als Schuft und Dieb dazustehen, und benötigt auch Geld, um Gruschenka zu überzeugen, mit ihm ein neues Leben anzufangen, unterdessen sein Vater Gruschenka mit 3000 Rubeln lockt, auf dass sie sich mit ihm verlobt. Folgen/Auflösung: Dmitrij versucht seine Erbansprüche auf ein Waldstück zu monetarisieren, scheitert. Als er wiederkommt, findet er Gruschenka nicht bei sich zuhause. Wutentbrannt läuft er zu seinem Vater, eifersüchtig, spioniert seinem Vater hinterher. Gruschenka ist aber nicht dort. Grigorij, der Diener des Vaters erwischt ihn. Dmitrij schlägt ihn nieder und flieht Hals über Kopf, rennt zu Gruschenka und erfährt dort, dass diese nach Mokroje gefahren ist, zu ihrem Ex-Verlobten. Er kauft seine Pistolen zurück, hat plötzlich Geld und beschließt, nach Mokroje zu fahren, dort alles Geld auf den Kopf zu hauen und sich dann umzubringen, nun, wo er Gruschenka für immer verloren glaubt. In Mokroje aber hat sich der Ex-Verlobte als Reinfall für Gruschenka erwiesen, freut sich, dass Dmitrij sie rettet. Sie feiern, geloben sich ewige Liebe, und dann wird Dmitrij festgenommen. Der Vater wurde tot aufgefunden, dessen 3000 Rubeln sind fort und Grigorij lebt und hat Dmitrij gesehen. Zwei Monate später kommt es zur Gerichtsverhandlung. Dmitrij wird schuldig gesprochen, verurteilt. Ivan und Katerina planen eine Flucht, sind sich herbei näher gekommen. Nebenhandlung: Dmitrij beleidigt einen Hauptmann namens Ssnegirjoff öffentlich, zieht ihm am Bart aus dem Gasthaus auf die Straße; daraufhin wird sein Sohn in der Schule „Bastwisch“ genannt und gehänselt für die Feigheit des Vaters. Da sich sein bester Freund, Kolja, von ihm wegen Hundequälerei abgewendet hat (Smerdjakoff hat Iljuscha angestiftet, dem Hund Shutschka eine Teigkugel mit Stecknadel zum Fressen zu geben), steht Iljuscha alleine da. Als Kolja zusieht, wie Iljuscha mit Steinen beworfen wird, stürzt dieser auf ihn zu und sticht ihn mit einem Federmesser ins Bein. Kurz danach, als Aljoscha den Streit zwischen den Jungen schlichten will, schmeißt Iljuscha einen Stein auf ihn und beißt ihm in den Finger. Aljoscha und Katerina beschließen zu helfen. Der Hauptmann wehrt sich zuerst, aber findet sich dann damit ab. Iljuscha ist krank vor Sorge um Shutschka und zieht sich zudem noch Tuberkulose zu. Kolja sucht seinen Hund und findet ihn, täuscht zuerst vor, es sei nicht der Hund, lässt ihn, sich totstellen, und feiert die Wiedergeburt. Es ist tatsächlich Shutschka, den er als Pereswonn vorgestellt hat. Iljuscha lässt sich aber nicht kurieren und stirbt kurz darauf. Aljoscha versammelt die Freunde und spricht zu ihnen, dass sie das nie vergessen sollen, wie alles sich um ihn gekümmert, um ihn sich versammelt haben, dass diese Kindheitserinnerungen sie vor Bösem schützen. Nebenhandlung: In dem Dorf gibt es ein Kloster mit einem Beichtmönch, den Staretz, der Gegenspieler besitzt, Ferapont, vollendeter Schweiger und Asket, und den Prior, der Klostervorsteher, der gerne schmaust. Aljoscha hat sich dem Staretz angeschlossen, lebt bei ihm. Der Staretz ist alt. Er empfängt Menschen, die sich Wunder erhoffen, unter anderem eine Witwe, Katerina Ossipowna Chochlakoff, und ihre Tochter Lise, die in Aljoscha vernarrt ist. Lise sitzt im Rollstuhl und hat Fieber. Die Witwe bedankt sich für den Beistand beim Staretz. Lise schreibt Aljoscha einen Brief und der Staretz verspricht, ihn zu ihr zu schicken. Sie schreibt im Brief, dass sie ihn liebt, und als Aljoscha sie besucht, verspricht er sich ihr. Der Staretz stirbt, und dessen Leichnam beginnt früher als normal zu stinken. Das verwirrt die Witwe und sie fällt vom Glauben ab, auch Lise wird heftiger, und nach zwei Monaten hat sie sich in eine masochistische Dämonin verwandelt, die Iwan schreibt, der ihren Brief aber zerreißt. Vorher hat sie sich von Aljoscha losgesagt, um dem Bösen zu huldigen, derweil sich Perchotin und Rakitin, der Neffe von Gruschenka, um die Witwe bemühen. Nebenhandlung: Eine Herumtreiberin namens Lisaweta Smerdjaschtschaja wird vergewaltigt und bringt ein Kind namens Pawel zur Welt, und zwar im Gartenhaus von Fjodor Karamasoff, den viele als Vater vermuten. Grigorij und Marfa, die Kammerdiener von Fjodor, ziehen Pawel auf. Er wird Koch im Hause, leidet an epileptischen Anfällen, unter anderem in der Nacht, als Fjodor erschlagen wird. Pawel behauptet, ihm 3000 Rubel gebend, gegenüber Ivan, dass er den Vater umgebracht hat, und erhängt sich danach. ●Charaktere: (rund/flach) sehr rund, sehr detailliert analysiert, außerordentlich weitschweifig, umfassend charakterisiert und lebendig (mit Ausnahme vielleicht Aljoschas).●Besondere Ereignisse/Szenen: die Großinquisitor-Szene; der stinkende Staretz; Dmitrijs Flucht, die Nacht der Tat; der unbekannte Mann, der dem Staretz den Mord gesteht und vor öffentlichen Eingeständnis kurz überlegt, ob er den Staretz nicht töten sollte;●Diskurs: --> außerordentlich politisch-theologisch, über die richtige Einrichtung der Welt, Widerspruch gegen Sozialrevolutionäre, gegen das Katholikentum, gegen die Bürokratie, gegen die Moderne.… Handlung einer mörderischen Opera buffa, eine Welt der Korruption, Verwirrung, der Zerstörung und Misshandlungen, der Lügen, der Unvollkommenheiten, der desaströsen Entscheidungen. Dostojewskis äußerst pessimistische Weltsicht, die menschliche Komödie als Farce, nur der Glaube kann helfen, nur die Gemeinde, nur das öffentliche gemeinsame, ent-individualisierte Leben; und dies alles als Kriminalfall aufgezogen.--> 5 SterneForm: ●Wortschatz: wenig dichterisch, mehr dialogisch, mehr alltäglich, mehr Genre-haft●Type-Token-Ratio: (auf Länge bereinigt) 0,017 (hohe lexikalische Vielfalt) ●Satzlängen-Verteilung-Median: 15,65 STAB 13, Median 12 (bei Musil: 28 Wörter mit Standardabweichung (STAB) 19 Wörter)●Anteil der 1000 häufigsten Wörter: 78% (Musil/Mann <70% - Genre >80%)●80% Abdeckung mit wievielen Wörtern: 1139 relativ gering durch Dialogizität●Auffälligkeiten: viele viele Namen.●Innovation: keine, aber geschliffene, runde, musikalische, weiche lesbare Prosa --> 5 SterneErzählstimme:●Eindruck: die Erzählstimme ist seltsam gebrochen; sie lokalisiert, ein Zeitzeuge, der mit dem Kloster zu tun, in welchem Aljoscha beim Staretz lernte. Er ist auch bei der Gerichtsverhandlung zugegeben. Er übt sich als Laienchronist, besitzt nicht die Sicherheit, relativiert vieles, muss Lücken schließen und spekuliert. Seltsamerweise aber spekuliert er als allwissende Erzählinstanz, die Gedanken in die Figuren hineinmontiert. ●Erzählinstanz (reflektiert, situiert, perspektiviert?): ja, aber mit selbstherrlicher Überschätzung; zwar perspektiviert, auf eine Figur, mit einer Sicht der Dinge, die aber nach Belieben Lücken füllt, ohne die Autorität zu besitzen. ●Erzählverhalten, -stil, -weise: Urteilend, hart kontrastierend, teilweise vernichtend, teilweise ironisiert, komisch, aber stets am Geschehen interessiert, parteilich. ●Einschätzung: Die Erzählinstanz selbst ist der Schwachpunkt des Romanes, der als Architektur die Schaulust bedient, ohne die Schaulust gutzuheißen, d.h. der Roman und so die Erzählinstanz taucht zwiegespalten auf, dringt in Bereiche vor, in die besser niemand vordringt. Entblößend. Als Figur kaum einschätzbar, eher gebrochen. Doch als stellt sich der Kritik, gibt sich zu erkennen. Deshalb gerade noch:--> 3 SterneKomposition: ●Eindruck (szenisch/deskriptiv/Tempiwechsel): unfassbar polyphon, mitreißend, interessant, mit retardierenden Elementen, ein paar schwierigen Digressionen, bspw. nach der Verhaftung die lange Passage über Kolja Krassotkin; oder auch die ewig langen Reden der Anklage und Verteidigung. ●Extradiegetische Abschnitte: ja, der Großinquisitor als eigene Erzählung●Lose Versatzstücke: die Geschichte des Staretz wirken lose, nicht wirklich eingebunden, funktionieren nicht mal als Montage, wirken wie Predigten.●Reliefbildung: hoch, bunt, schnell durch Episodenformat, sehr unterhaltsam, ein Zirkus, ein Karneval (Bachtin). ●Einschätzung: Mit den Stimmen, den angedeuteten Motiven, der Dynamik und Theatralik, wie eine Oper, die mit Arien und Gesangseinlagen arbeitet, sich langsam zum Höhepunkt hin entwickelt. --> 5 SterneLeseerlebnis: ●Gelangweilt: Nur bei den Predigten des Staretz; und bei den Reden der Anwälte.●Geärgert: nein, bis auf die langen Reden am Ende.●Amüsiert: hier und da.●Gefesselt: stets.●Zweites Mal Lesen?: mglw. nicht. Ein drittes Mal muss nicht sein. --> 5 Sterne--------
1348032615	Dane causes scandal in online literary circles, admitting: I just didn’t love The Brothers KA reporter representing discerning readers everywhere yesterday rounded up the Danish reader in front of her home as she was attempting to slink off to her car, carrying a suspiciously thin volume under her arm. What follows is an attempt to get to the bottom of the Dane’s reaction:Reporter: Excuse me, Ma’am, it has been brought to our attention that you’ve given The Brothers Karamazov a rating of three stars on goodreads. Do you have a comment? Dane: Wha..aat? Why would I have a comment? And don’t call me ma’am.R: Sorry, m.., but a rating that low just doesn’t go unnoticed. An explanation is called for.D: Oh. Well, I’m sorry, but I just couldn’t always hang on to it. I liked the overall idea, the philosophical questioning of ideas, but it seemed to vacillate back and forth between the exploration of ideas – with the characters representing different ethical positions – and a melodrama brimming with pathos. And of course Dostoevsky’s trademark dealings with guilt, crime and blame galore. R: Well, yes. Frankly, that is part of the point. Dostoevsky wrote philosophical novels, as you must be aware.D: Of course I’m aware of that. I even agree with much of what is expressed in the novel. In fact, I found myself agreeing with Ivan in his lengthy soliloquy – the Grand Inquisitor – when he said to Alyosha that it’s not that I don’t accept God, I just most respectfully return him the ticket. I can relate to that. The problem is, I felt I wasn’t supposed to agree with Ivan. As a Lutheran growing up in a highly secularized, if not entirely faithless, society, I felt too distanced from the overall themes of faith, redemption and punishment, or at least in the way they were repeatedly offered up at the expense of story. My sporadic knowledge of the Bible probably didn’t help. R: Ah, and shouldn’t it be assumed that serious readers are aware of Biblical references? Surely it cannot be the author’s fault that you failed to understand aspects of the novel based on your own ignorance of specifics in the Bible?D: Of course not. I do have a general knowledge of the Bible, and I have no problem not getting all intertextual references in a novel. But there were long passages in which a character would speak soliloquy-fashion without another character interrupting or the character speaking doing anything else. The genre went from novel to sermon in those passages, and I felt preached to. R: But, but, but…That’s part of Dostoevsky’s style, his sophistication, his Big Ideas. D: And I deeply sympathize with many of his ideas. I was touched by many things he said, especially everything he said about children. I loved what he said about being a father at the trial – totally agree. In fact, I was quite taken with the whole court scene. I can see that it’s brilliant. R: Well, then…?D: Look, I know it’s supposed to be tough Russian realism, but it never felt very real to me. The characters didn’t seem real. Although I experienced moments of philosophical or spiritual or intellectual profundity, I just didn’t connect with the overall manic, tragic, morbid intensity of it. Everyone seems to be yellow in the face and scrawny; they invariably sob and scream. The poor were automatically good, the rich automatically corrupt. It seemed too black and white to me – like a communist, religious manifesto. I know he was influenced by Dickens, and like any modern, decent individual I sympathize with the problems they point out, but where Dickens showed, Dostoevsky often told, hence my feeling preached to. There was nothing left between the cracks for the reader to guess at and co-create the text with; it was all out there. Even Virginia Woolf said as much although at one point she deeply admired him. R: You are doubtless aware of Kierkegaard’s influence on Dostoevsky as well, then?D: Yes, I am aware of it, and it showed. Kierkegaard personifies the overly aesthetic ideal only to contradict it in his subsequent purely ethical stance, and everything is viewed through the prism of religion. He was a kind of existential philosopher, founded on religion, which I guess, in a way, Dostoevsky was, too. Mind you, Kierkegaard didn’t write novels. And as I said before, to me Dostoevsky often digressed from that genre, although I suppose you could call it a more modern take on the novel. R: Aha, and coming to that: don’t you realize that it’s objectively speaking a masterpiece? That it’s considered one of the best novels in the world?D: Certainly I do! But that’s not a reason for liking it. That’s a reason for reading it. And now I have. OK? I felt it was amazing but monstrous. I was impressed by much of it, but it wore me out.R: Hm. I wonder if you are aware that Dostoevsky has been in fashion in literary circles for a while now; that serious readers greatly admire, even love, this novel?D: Yes, yes, I know. And I know what it’s like to have a favourite book rated low for no good reason or for inadequate reasons. I hope I’ve explained myself at least a little. I didn’t utterly dislike it, but the extent of the religious fervor threw me off the path of the story. Ultimately, I resent the underlying belief that you cannot be a decent person or love another person properly if you don’t believe in God.R: And you admit to these, shall we call them, shortcomings on your part? D: Uhm, well, as I’ve seen someone else put it: we all like and dislike with impunity, don’t we? Sure, I feel guilty. Inadequate even, but there it is: I. Just. Did. Not. Love. It. Neighbours were approached for an explanation of this un-heard-of phenomenon but answered with blank stares, followed by an occasional ‘Karamazov who?’ or ‘Is that that weird Russian rocket launcher?’ and other telling comments. In this sea of ignorance surrounding the Danish reader, we may have found the true cause of the mystery.
2078632439	"L’umanità troverà in se stessa la forza di vivere per la virtù anche senza credere nell’immortalità dell’anima! La troverà nell’amore per la libertà, per l’uguaglianza, per la fratellanza..." ( Novembre 2015 )Ed è così che un libro a lungo scansato, aperto e poi chiuso nel giro di pochi giorni, diventa, poi, quell'opera che ti si appiccica addosso.Non sono fra coloro che credono " nel libro della propria vita".Non un solo libro ci appartiene ma siamo fatti di tante parole.Come questi meravigliosi personaggi karamazoviani intrisi di bene e di male, complessi e mai forgiati di un'unica materia.C'è la follia tra queste pagine. Una follia che nasce dal malessere di tutti gli uomini che hanno la forza di fermarsi a riflettere e porsi la domanda che a tutti appartiene poiché essenza di ogni esistenza:Dio esiste o non esiste?E' la domanda disperata che si ritorna e che Ivan Karamazov nell'allucinante dialogo pone a l'altro sé diabolico.L'idea di Dio è fondamentale anzi necessaria. Non si trovano tracce tangibili ma un'àncora di salvezza c'è: è l'amore universale, la fratellanza. E' l'unica metà che dia un senso in questo mare dove infuria la tormenta. L'unica zattera a cui il naufrago può aggrapparsi.Sono passati 135 anni dalla pubblicazione di quest'opera e mai come oggi la sua lettura ha assunto un'importanza così profonda.
1123300939	Αριστούργημα !
3335801559	سفر خوبی داشتم همراه با آلیوشا، میتیا و ایوان. علی‌رغم طولانی بودن صفحات، بسیار کوتاه بود. با اینکه سعی کردم با آرامش بخوانم و مشغولیات زندگی هم فرصت مطالعه ام را کم کرده اما خیلی زود گذشت چون خوب گذشت. یک رمان کامل بود اما هم دوست داشتم ادامه پیدا کند هم در پایان کاملا احساس می کردم ادامه دار است. وقتی در جایی خواندم قرار بوده این کتاب بخش اول یک سه گانه باشد و داستایوفسکی چهارماه پس از نگارشش درگذشته بسیار ناراحت شدمخیلی فکرکردم به تمام رمان هایی که تاکنون خوانده ام، تا قبل از برادران کارامازوف، خیلی دشوار است برایم رمانی را پیدا کنم که از این رمان بهتر بوده باشد. جلد اول را که تمام کردم نوشتم: «اگر داستان‌ها و رمان‌های روسی داستان و رمان هستند، آثار دیگر ملل چگونه جرات دارند ادعای ادبیات داستانی داشته باشند؟ همچنانکه اگر شعر فارسی و ایرانی شعر است، نوشته های دیگر زبان‌ها و ملت‌ها چگونه ادعای شعربودن می‌کنند؟»برای من که دانش آموز توامان ادبیات و فلسفه بوده ام این رمان از هر دو منظر قابل تامل و ارزشمند بود. هم ادبیات و ساختار زیبای داستان شگفت زده ام کرد هم نبرد سهمناک اندیشه ها در آن پیش از مطالعه کتاب از اهالی فلسفه ستایش های فراوانی را درباره این کتاب شنیده بودم اما پس از مطالعه کتاب و در گشت‌زنی‌های اینترنتی دیدم که متفکران و دانشمندان بزرگ معاصر در رشته های گوناگون در تحسین و تحلیل این رمان نوشته اند، از مارتین هایدگر فیلسوف بزرگ، تا آلبرت اینشتین فیزیکدان نابغه، تا زیگموند فروید روانشناس مشهور. این به خودی خود نشان از اهمیت این اثر داستانی دارد. هرچند بعضی از این نظرات، مثل نظر فروید بسیار سخیف و سطحی است و گذر زمان بی اعتباری اش را ثابت کرده است. اما رمانی که بتواند اینهمه نظر نخبه را به خود جلب کند هم عظمت خود را ثابت می کند هم برتری ادبیات خلاقه بر دیگر علوم و عوالم را***پ ن: کتاب را با ترجمه صالح حسینی خواندم. قابل تحمل بود اما خوب نبود. هم اشکالات فراوان داشت، مخصوصا در علائم و نشانه‌های نوشتاری. امری که اگر مخاطب دقیق نباشد گیجش میکند کدام متن دیالوگ است و کدام روایت راوی و گاهی حتی دیالوگ دو شخصیت خلط شده. همچنین استفاده از بسیاری از عبارات تازی نامانوس و غیرمستعمل متن را برای مخاطب جوان سخت میکند. مشکل دیگر هم اصطلاح گزینی های تطبیقی در برابر اصطلاحات نویسنده اصلی است. از همه بدترش یک جا برای حضرت مریم (سلام الله علیها) عبارت «بی بی دو عالم» را به کار برده و در مقدمه هم به این کار خود افتخار کرده. حال آنکه بی بی دو عالم اصطلاح خاص برای یک شخصیت خاص است در زبان فارسی و انتخابش برای چنین مقامی قطعا پشتوانه ادبی و علمی ندارد. خلاصه که امیدوارم شما ترجمه بهتری را برای مطالعه انتخاب کنید و مهمتر امیدوارم که ترجمه ای حرفه ای از زبان اصلی از این کتاب انجام بگیرد تا مخاطب فارسی زبان بتواند ارتباط و نسبت بی واسطه تری با این شاهکار ادبیات داستانی جهان برقرار کند
4511747372	موضوع اصلی‌‌ای که در تمام بخش‌های این کتاب به آن پرداخته شده همان سوالی‌ است که اکثر ما را آگاهانه یا ناخوداگاه رنج می‌دهد: وجود خدااین جمله خلاصه ای از تمام حماسه کارامازوفی‌است.اما به هر حال کتاب برادران کارامازف یک تور ادبی است، داستایفسکی مطلقاً تمام دانش، تجربیات، شادی‌ها، غم‌ها، باورها، ترس‌ها و امیدهای خود را در این اثر عظیم جمع کرده است «یک اثر هنری کامل».امکان ندارد که برادران کارامازوف را از جامعه روسیه در آن زمان تزاری که در حال زوال و تشنج بود جدا کرد. همانطور که داستایفسکی گروه های انقلابی نهیلیستی و آمیخته از دوز های بالایی از بی‌خدایی آن زمان روسیه را در «شیاطین» به تصویر کشید.به طور کلی، ایده‌‌ای که داستایفسکی در «برادران کارامازوف» پیاده کرده است، این است که تمام جنبه‌هایی که جامعه روسیه را تشکیل می‌داد در بر گیرد. داستایفسکی می‌دانست که می‌تواند تمام عناصر ممکن را در گره و پیچاپیچ کتابش بگنجاند و میتواند روی همه اقشار اجتماعی روسیه محبوبش حساب کند.درمورد اشخاص درون کتاب حرفی نمی‌توان زد زیرا تمام نکات را داستایفسکی درون کتاب پوشش داده است. نمیتوانم بگویم از بین کتاب‌های (شیاطین، ابله، جنایت و مکافات و برادران کارامازوف ) کدام یک محبوب من است زیرا هر کدام به نوبه خود جزو خدایان ادبیات هستند.
