5814711223	Some of these are masterworks I expect to outlast us, whereas others perhaps should've been aborted.The notion that anyone might think “I have measured out my life with coffee spoons” perfectly captures the crude metrics we use to number decidedly not crude things. Recall that this section of 'Prufrock' asks "Do I dare / Disturb the universe? / In a minute there is time / For decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse." The whole “And in short, I was afraid” segment kicks ass.In the 'Preludes,' we have observations such as "You dozed, and watched the night revealing / The thousand sordid images / Of which your soul was constituted." Almost an atheist in 'A Cooking Egg' by noting "I shall not want Capital in Heaven," the coarse interpenetration of earthy materialism with ethereal spiritualism, Marlowe's 'massy entrails of the earth,' just in the afterlife.On the other hand, he is sometimes too showy with his lexicon and classical references ( I know, right?), such as in the generic 'Ode,' stating "Children singing in the orchard / (Io Hymen, Hymenæe) / Succuba eviscerate." Just why "Polyphiloprogenitive," anyway? Eliot should know that this neologism violates classical compound rules--though such promiscuity might be the point of the poem of its appearance, if not of the entire enterprise.Then, 'the Waste Land.' Is there a more ostentatious text in English? It reads 100% better if all of the authorial footnotes are skipped; they more interfere than enlighten. That said, "They called me the hyacinth girl" is probably a song waiting to be sung. The notion that Philomela "Filled all the desert with inviolable voice" is picture perfect. Nevertheless, "there is not even solitude in the mountains." I don't have a reasonable interpretation of the poem--it is lovely and weighty, but opaque and potentially dehiscent. At least it can be concluded that “These fragments I have shored against my ruins.”The volume and 'The Hollow Men' ends with "This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but a whimper."Recommended for those who are expert beyond experience.
7187407690	Magic LanternA miscellany of musings about old age and decay, striking stylistic flurries and vivid images. It reminded me keenly about Guillaume Apollinaire. Slightly conceited at times. Quotes:'Let us go then, you and I,When the evening is spread out against the skyLike a patient etherized upon a table;Let us go, through certain half-deserted streets,The muttering retreatsOf restless nights in one-night cheap hotelsAnd sawdust restaurants with oyster-shells:Streets that follow like a tedious argumentOf insidious intentTo lead you to an overwhelming question ...Oh, do not ask, “What is it?”Let us go and make our visit.' ⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤'April is the cruellest month, breedingLilacs out of the dead land, mixingMemory and desire, stirringDull roots with spring rain.' ⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤'A woman drew her long black hair out tightAnd fiddled whisper music on those stringsAnd bats with baby faces in the violet lightWhistled, and beat their wingsAnd crawled head downward down a blackened wallAnd upside down in air were towersTolling reminiscent bells, that kept the hoursAnd voices singing out of empty cisterns and exhausted wells.' ⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤'We are the hollow menWe are the stuffed menLeaning togetherHeadpiece filled with straw. Alas!Our dried voices, whenWe whisper togetherAre quiet and meaninglessAs wind in dry grassOr rats' feet over broken glassIn our dry cellarShape without form, shade without colour,Paralysed force, gesture without motion;Those who have crossedWith direct eyes, to death's other KingdomRemember us-if at all-not as lostViolent souls, but onlyAs the hollow menThe stuffed men.' ⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤'Though you have shelters and institutions,Precarious lodgings while the rent is paid,Subsiding basements where the rat breedsOr sanitary dwellings with numbered doorsOr a house a little better than your neighbour's;When the Stranger says: " What is the meaning of this city?Do you huddle close together because you love each other?"What will you answer? " We all dwell togetherTo make money from each other"? or " This is a community"?' ⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤⬤See also:ALCOOLSUlyssesScènes de la vie futureExégèse Des Lieux CommunsCitadelle
5288789802	"by this, and this only, we have existed." brb buying every t.s. eliot collection ever
5826844043	вибране самим еліотом. передмовлене соломією павличко. ідеально 🤌 Отож ходім, удвох ходімВ час, коли вечір простягнувсь під небом цим блідим, Як хворий на столі хірурга під наркозомЧи розповісти, як ішов я смерком серед вулиць Вузеньких, між легких димів сигар поодинокихВ зубах мужчин, що де-не-де висовувалися з вікон? Перетворитися б мені на пару грубих клешень,Що десь вовтузяться на дні морів безмовних.Натягла ніби струни коси чорні-чорнющі І заграла на них собі жінка зашепотіла Серед іскор фіалкових крил лопотіння Кажани з лицями немовлят свистілиІ сторч головою повзли по стінах зчорнілихІ я, що лежу тут розкраяний, Заповідаю діла свої забуттю, а любов мою Потомству пустелі й родові гарбузовому.Сподіване впокорення, погідність осені,Старечу мудрість? Чи вони нас ошукали,Чи ошукали самих себе ці тихомовні старигани,Що нам заповіли самі тільки рецепти ошуканства? Оця погідність — лише обміркована глупота,А мудрість — лише знання померлих таємниць,Вже непотрібне в темряві, в яку вони вдивлялись,Чи від якої відвертали очі. Бо, на нашу думку, Знання, котре походить з досвіду,Все ж невелику має вартістьМи не уникнемо пошуків,І кінцем наших пошуківСтане місце, звідки ми починали, Пізнане, наче першого разу.Дім — це місце, звідки рушають
5263675373	You’re either a “Love Song” person or a “Waste Land” person, there is no in between!! And I definitely prefer “Love Song” (Sorry to my English teacher who’s probably reading this 😬)“Love Song” is by far one of the most brilliant and timeless poems I have ever read. If I were to post my favourite quotes from the poem, I’d have to show every line. It’s beautifully written that every time I read it I have to read it out loud. A bit of an embarrassing story to share, I used to get ready to Tom Hiddleston reading this poem for about a month, truly humiliating but so worth it.And if my English teacher is still reading my bizarre review: Could we pretty please analyse “Portrait of a Lady” in class? (I’d also ask for “Love Song” but I think I’d faint if you pulled out this poem out of your baby blue folder😵‍💫)
155688268	Best read out-loud for yourself, and remember misogyny and antisemitism does not mean poetry void of beauty and truth. The grimy beauty of Eliot's masterful versification compresses and plants dense metaphysical ideas next to one another which find their expression in a pure and controlled diction. I'm afraid I was often left writhing in some kind of paroxysm of pleasure. This is difficult poetry with an encyclopedic sprawl of references but very rewarding if you're invested. My favourites comprise the first half of this particular collection. "I am moved by fancies that are curledAround these images, and cling;The notion of some infinitely gentleInfinitely suffering thing."
1553612413	Ако значението на една творба винаги е свързано с възприемателя (по Ричардс), то в субективното пространство на моето читателско битие Елиът е един от поетите, които са оказали най-голямо влияние в развитието на литературния ми вкус през годините. Безкрайната тъга в поезията му, съчетана с безмилостния реализъм на внушението, превърта светове и хвърля читателя към едно безкрайно чезнене. А чезненето е най-мощното оръжие срещу злото там, където тишината лекува.http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2016/02/t.html﻿
1264592662	T. S. Eliot's poetry is what made me fall in love with poetry in the first place. It is out of this world - I don't know how I could articulate a review about something so close to my heart. I'll tell you a story, instead. When I picked out this book out of my parents' shelves, I could speak and roughly understand English, but my vocabulary was nowhere near developed enough to understand all of the words in the poetry. I still felt compelled to read the poems - the sounds made sense, in a way. I loved that I could only understand snippets, and the poem was wholly mine, with its strange sense of tragedy and doom - no demand for a logical understanding of the world. My obsession was 'The Hollow Men'. Now, I can confidently say I have the vocabulary to analytically approach this book - but I won't. I can't shake the feeling that poetry, especially T S Eliot's, is a way to go beyond words with words.
2635560517	If you're googling the authors name and "anti-semitism" after a couple of pages you're probably not in for a good time.That just pretty much coloured the rest of my reading this book so it's a hard no really.
3015438906	Wonderful collection of poetry from a great poet. Here are classics: 'The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock', 'The Waste Land', 'Ash-Wednesday', and others. Wonderful.
2192849035	Има време да се чете и време да се мисли. Минути за себе си и минути да бъдеш. При Елиът всичко е едно безкрайно преплитане на живот, мисли, минало, настояще, пътуване и бъдене, и тук, и там. Отлагах книгата с месеци, прочитах по малко, като дете ядящо тайно шоколадови бонбони, криех се от себе си, да не ми хареса много и изведнъж да свръши. Елиът се чете бавно, преглъща се трудно, но носи една непозната топлина, на думи, които тежат на онези места, избразнени от ежедневнието. "Да го кажа ли пак? За да постигнеш дотам,дотам, където си, за да се махнеш оттам, където не си, трябва да изминеш път, по който няма екстаз. За да стигнеш дотам, където не знаеш къде, трябва да изминеш път, който е пътят на невежеството. За да притежават това, което не притежаваш,трябва да минеш по пътя на лишението. За да достигнеш това, което не си, трябва да минеш по пътя, на който не си. И което не знаеш, е единственото нещо, което знаеш,и което притежаваш, е което не притежаваш, и там където си, е там, където не си. " "Любовта е най-близо до себе си,когато Тук и Сега предстанат да имат значение."
2649445266	I’ll admit that I found this a challenging read - I’m a good 25 years out of practice in critical poetry reading. To be honest, I’ll probably give this a higher rating after further reading and mulling over the contents. I found that I experienced brief periods of illumination, when I felt I was getting to grips with the material - for example the echoes of the modern digital age in the “Choruses from the Rock” - but then found myself plunged back into the mire of confusion. Throughout, I had the sense that I was missing something extraordinary. While I consider myself to have had a reasonably good “liberal education” - I have a working knowledge of Greek myth, the old and New Testament and the works of Shakespeare - I think I’d be lucky if I picked up more than 10% of Eliot’s references. Nevertheless, a quality read, and I do intend to attempt some of these works again in due course.
4046303614	“We are the hollow men We are the stuffed men Leaning together Headpiece filled with straw. Alas! Our dried voices, when We whisper together Are quiet and meaningless As wind in dry grass Or rats' feet over broken glass In our dry cellar Shape without form, shade without colour, Paralysed force, gesture without motion; Those who have crossed With direct eyes, to death's other Kingdom Remember us-if at all-not as lost Violent souls, but only As the hollow men The stuffed men.”
3984864546	Sim, Eliot é tudo que dizem que é.
6872913992	Me alegro de haber reconectado con mi parte filóloga.Había partes en las que decía wow esta persona es un genio y otra en las que no entendía un caraj0 y tenía que fingir que sí😀
4135177306	"For I have known them all already, known them all:Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons,I have measured out my life with coffee spoons;"
5604678738	Eliot has great prose. My favourite poems / stanzas are as follows:(This from "The Love Songs of J. Alfred Prufrock")For I have known them all already, known them all - Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons, I have measured out my life with coffee spoons;I know the voices dying with a dying fallBeneath the music from a farther room.So how should I presume?(This from "Preludes")IVHis soul stretched tight across the skiesThat fade behind a city block, Or trampled by insistent feet At four and five and six o'clock;And short square fingers stuffing pipes, And evening newspapers, and eyes Assured of certain certainties,The conscience of a blackened streetImpatient to assume the world.l am moved by fancies that are curledAround these images, and cling:The notion of some infinitely gentleInfinitely suffering thing.Wipe your hand across your mouth, and laugh;The worlds revolve like ancient womenGathering fuel in vacant lots.All of "The Hollow Men"(This from "Ash-Wednesday”)IBecause I do not hope to turn againBecause I do not hopeBecause I do not hope to turnDesiring this man's gift and that man's scopeI no longer strive to strive towards such things(Why should the agèd eagle stretch its wings?)Why should I mournThe vanished power of the usual reign?Because I do not hope to knowThe infirm glory of the positive hourBecause I do not thinkBecause I know I shall not knowThe one veritable transitory powerBecause I cannot drinkThere, where trees flower, and springs flow, for there isnothing againBecause I know that time is always timeAnd place is always and only placeAnd what is actual is actual only for one timeAnd only for one placeI rejoice that things are as they are andI renounce the blessèd faceAnd renounce the voiceBecause I cannot hope to turn againConsequently I rejoice, having to construct somethingUpon which to rejoiceAnd pray to God to have mercy upon usAnd pray that I may forgetThese matters that with myself I too much discussToo much explainBecause I do not hope to turn againLet these words answerFor what is done, not to be done againMay the judgement not be too heavy upon usBecause these wings are no longer wings to flyBut merely vans to beat the airThe air which is now thoroughly small and drySmaller and dryer than the willTeach us to care and not to care Teach us to sit still.Pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our deathPray for us now and at the hour of our death.(This from "The Rock Choruses")The Eagle soars in the summit of Heaven, The Hunter with his dogs pursues his circuit.O perpetual revolution of configured stars,O perpetual recurrence of determined seasons, O world of spring and autumn, birth and dying!The endless cycle of idea and action,Endless invention, endless experiment, die hi to Brings knowledge of motion, but not of stillness;Knowledge of speech, but not of silence;Knowledge of words, and ignorance of the Word.All our knowledge brings us nearer to our ignorance, All our ignorance brings us nearer to death, But nearness to death no nearer to GOD.Where is the Life we have lost in living?Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge?Where is the knowledge we have lost in information? " The cycles of Heaven in twenty centuriesBring us farther from GoD and nearer to the Dust.[…] Life you may evade but death you shall not.
4962326720	A man struggling against but working with, from, and out of the abyss the collapse of what he liked most and best left behind. So strangely haunting the words these poems make, as well as the poems the words so made make, haunting, yes, but beautiful. And perhaps most best to most cap it off is Beckett, who, writing on this writer, made the observation, T. Eliot spelled backward is toilet.
3125924203	Poetry by one of the premier poets of the 20th century. An immersive experience reading them all in one day.
3529696072	Елиът е изумителен.
3603320713	** spoiler alert ** Не е моят тип поезия, не ме докосва, а дразни като неакордирано пиано, на което някой натиска случайни клавиши с един единствен неуверен пръст, мъчейки се да си спомни и налучка неясна мелодия. Мелодия, пълна с неравномерни късове мистицизъм, религия, отчаяние и отчужденост.Но поезията винаги е лична, и няколко строфи все пак ми допадат:”Понеже аз не се надявам да се върна тукПонеже аз не се надявамПонеже аз не се надявам да се върнаПоревнал дарбата на този или порива на другАз повече не се стремя да се стремя и да постигам(Защо е нужно старият орел криле да вдига?)Защо да съжалявамЗа свършеното царство на видимия свят?”“Болката на всекидневния живот и наркотикът на сънянатикват малката душица под прозореца, върху стелажазад Encyclopedia Britanica.От ръката на времето извира простата душаплаха и себична, безформена и куца,неспособна да поеме напред нито да спреуплашена от топлата реалност, от отреденото добро, ...сянка на своите сенки, призрак в собствената си тъга, ...тя заживява след сетното причастие — в оная тишина.”“Че вчерашните думи са на вчерашен език, а утрешните още чакат новия си глас.”“ще ти разкрия дара, който е запазен за старостта, като корона на делата ти. Първо — студът трептящ на чезнещото чувствобез чар, без други обещания, освен горчивото безвкусие на плод от сенки, когато почнат тяло и душа да се разделят.Второ — съзнатата безсилност на гнева пред глупостта човешка и мъчителният смях пред това, което е престанало да радва.Накрая — болката от преповтаряното на всичко, що си вършил и си бил; срамът от късно осъзнатите подбуди, от нещазле свършени и във вреда на други хора, неща, които взимал си за добродетелни.”
935307142	Surprise, surprise, Mr. Eliot has a way with words.Somehow I had managed not to read any Eliot until now, but he is obviously pretty great. He clearly has a lot of value in an objective sense as a modern classic poet (and is hardly unrecognised in this regard) but I would definitely have to read more to see if he is ‘my’ sort of poet, though I think I have engaged pretty well with what I found here and would definitely still like to read his poetry in full as well as exploring his other contributions.A few things that stood out to me were the juxtaposition of the cosmic and the mundane, the way established images can be used and developed to create entirely new ones, and the use of ideas in combination to express a greater idea about their relationship without any further need for explanation. I also noticed that the last line is often the best. My main concern with this collection is that I am sure there is plenty of subtext and deeper symbolic meaning that I have missed (and would probably need some sort of annotated edition to help me in this regard), but other reviewers have noted this problem and yet still said that this knowledge didn’t impair their enjoyment (and thus given the collection five stars anyway), so although it bothered me a bit and the thought distracted me and stopped me from being immersed in my reading I suppose it shouldn’t bother me as much as it actually does.
5603357468	Whilst there are some exceptionally sharp and intriguing poems like " choruses from 'the rock'", or lyrically fresh poems like "marina" that are truly delightful and unique, the initial amazement sort of fizzles out near the end of the collection as the poems faithfully retrace T.S. Eliot's growing devotion to the "lord". The quality does not necessarily suffer as much as could be expected (since his style is so experimental one might expect it) but the themes explored are not as vast anymore. The sole thematic of the closing poems is that of the loss of faith over the past couple decades. For any devout Christian definitely fascinating, just not for me. Terribly chagrining how T.S. Eliot seems to follow in the footsteps of other great artists and thinkers whose craft was diminished by some sudden "illumination" like Pascal.
2093270925	"Στα θαλάσσια δώματα πλανιόμαστεστεφανωμένοι από ξωθιές με φύκια πορφυρά ώσπου φωνές ανθρώπων μας ξυπνάνε, και πνιγόμαστε.""Πού είναι η Ζωή που χάσαμε ενώ ζούσαμε; Πού είναι η σοφία που χάσαμε στη γνώση;""Πήγαινε, πήγαινε, είπε το πουλί: το ανθρώπινο το γένοςδεν την αντέχει την πολλή πραγματικότητα."
4198993350	Increasingly unhinged mythopoetic nonsense — but anchored by a few deeply affecting, more grounded poems, like clear breaks in the thought process of a schizophrenic stopping to catch his breath
1622710388	Read this a couple times before. The religious poems are shit. The rest are pretty good.
5408762279	Ao reler este livro, apaguei, sem querer, a apreciação. O livro é brilhante. Já o tinha dito.
5176903174	this was really heavy to be honestso many amazing quotations."This is the way the world ends / not with a bang but with a whimper." - The Hollow Men (1925)"under the firelight, under the brush, her hair / spread out in fiery points / glowed into words, then would be savagely still." - A Game of Chess the whole of The Hippopotamus (1920) >>"regard the moon, / la lune ne garde aucune rancune" - Rhapsody on a Windy Night"do I dare disturb the universe?" - The Love Song of J Alfred Prufock also this man is either EXTREMELYYYYY religious or he likes being philosophical and bringing religion into it.
4186621656	Wow - I ... um... I don't know ... wow. I have never really been someone who's all that into poetry, but I can confidently say that I am now. T.S. Eliot is by no means an underrated author. That being said, I wish more people who aren't strictly classics readers recognized his work more (the way they do for poets such as Robert Frost and Edgar Allen Poe). This is a very short and incomprehensible review, but whatever. If you are into poetry (or looking to get into it), and somehow haven't read any of T.S. Eliot's stuff yet, pick up this book !!
4711746136	Some of Eliot's work is brilliant - the introductory chorus from The Rock, his Journey of the Magi. But lots of his earliest stuff feels contrived and overwrought. I could understand why CS Lewis couldn't enjoy Eliot at all.
6458000974	Lots of weird religious undertones, but highlights included “The Burial of the Dead” and “The Hollow Men.”
3286582832	I reread another book from my college days. We have lingered in the chambers of the seaBy sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown Till human voices wake us, and we drown.
3652928211	absolutely LOVE ts eliot’s poetry and i treated myself to this little number to fuel my obsession
3154833621	Beautiful at points, too preach-y at others.
3502359127	I imagine practically everyone literate knows or knows of T.S. Eliot and his erudite poems.He has a distinctive style, and there is a distinctive rhythm to his poems, so one always recognizes his authorship.I like his quotes in various languages, which I mostly understand, except the ones in Greek.I can’t say I understand what the poems mean, however; in fact, I would have appreciated the inclusion of an explanation/interpretation of them – absolutely.I remember studying Murder in the Cathedral years ago, at school, or university. That was comprehensible, as I recall, if I recall correctly, I don’t know Eliot’s work well enough to suggest the inclusion of other of his poems or extracts thereof.Here is an extract from The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock:“Let us go then, you and I,When the evening is spread out against the skyLike a patient etherised upon a table;Let us go, through certain half-deserted streets, ---Let us go and make our visit. ---In the room the women come and goTalking of Michelangelo. ---I grow old … I grow old …I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled.”From The Hollow Men:“We are the hollow menWe are the stuffed menLeaning togetherHeadpiece filled with straw. Alas!Our dried voices, whenWe whisper togetherAre quiet and meaninglessAs wind in dry grass ---Those who have crossed---- to death’s other KingdomRemember us – if at all – not as lostViolent souls, but onlyAs the hollow menThe stuffed men. ---This is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsNot with a bang but a whimper.”Extracts from The Waste Land and choruses from The Rock are also included in this selection.This was an enjoyable read, though somewhat cryptic.Now I will look into Eliot’s Four Quartets, The Family Reunion and The Cocktail Party.
498667862	I've been thoroughly reading my copy of T.S Eliot's Selected Poems in the past day or two, and I must say I really do love his writing. I confess; for the most part his referencing is so obscure that 90% goes right over my head, but as I'm going to be actually studying the poems in detail and university, I've been doing some research as I go along (hence making me understand them and appreciate them a lot more).His poems are, in essence, right up my street: often dark and melancholy; reminiscent of years past, rather than filled with optimism of the present and the future. I myself frequently write dark, negative poetry, rather than happy positive verse. For this reason then, something in Eliot's poetry certainly strikes a cord with me. The Waste Land in particular; although littered with references which can at times disrupt the flow, the language is beautiful in its darkness.The more I read and re-read these in the coming months, and I start to understand more clearly the layered meanings and metaphors, I'm sure my appreciation of T.S. Eliot's works will grow even more. For now, though, I would certainly recommend to anyone wanting to discover some marvellous verse. Just one request: if you're going to read these, you will only do them true justice, by reading aloud.
2687538440	I was heavily divided on this collection. I don't particularly enjoy poetry that is full of references to names, places, events and characters that I don't know. I'm sure that people who already know many of the references or are willing to put time into researching every name they don't recognize would get more out of the poetry, but for me, I found it frustrating and off-putting. The poems which seemed to stand on their own, full of descriptions or concepts were my favourites. I also wasn't a big fan of his more overtly religious poetry and musings; there were some interesting ideas and insights, but it wasn't communicated in a way that felt profound or new to me, so it felt almost tedious to read, having grown up often reading things with a theological focus. My favourite poems in this collection were:Parts of PrufrockParts of portrait of a ladyThe PreludesThe wasteland I. The Burial of the deadThe Hollow men I.
3895809348	Let call it 2.5 starsI chipped away at slowly before bed over some time. I went into it with an open mind but no real context or preconceived ideas on what it would be. I found myself mostly reading on autopilot. A handful of pieces did make an impression on me. I would call those the successful ones, cause what is the purpose of a poem if not to make you feel something.Anyway, it was fine!
5370572065	What a trip. I have to say Modern Poetry is not easy for me. But I did enjoy almost all of the poems a lot. The choice of words was so deliberate, you could almost feel every thought over decision.I was missing the funny, silly, cute poems which got me started with TS Eliot thought.Will reread. Will revisit.
3775194	The poems in this collection are arranged in a sort of progression of quality (in my mind). Prufrock is good, The Waste Land is insight, Ash Wednesday is beauty and The Rock is prophesy. I never knew I liked Mr. Eliot so much.
7959653167	Even though this collection runs to only 127 pages, it’s such complex, richly crafted material that I couldn’t do justice to the entire set of poems within a brief review; so, I will confine my comments to “The Wasteland” which is highly representative of the entire collection. This work says a great deal about the man who wrote it. At first reading, one might assume that the ‘wasteland’ is Europe itself after the devastation of the Great War. But while that does provide context, it seems to me that Eliot was more concerned with an internal wasteland of the soul. We know that Eliot was not really the sternly self-assured patrician that he sought to display to the world. Freud would have had a field day sorting him out: chaste of habit, even within marriage; American born and bred, yet striving mightily to become as English as possible; morphing from agnostic to stridently Anglican, describing himself as ‘Anglo-catholic.’His habit of repeatedly shifting voices and persona (without any signal to his reader) suggests an ambiguity of self-identity as well as a cool disregard for the satisfaction—or even the comprehension—of his audience. Within Part I “The Burial of the Dead” alone, he changes voices at least eight times, evoking several women, a clairvoyant, a priest and even Danté! There’s nothing the least bit charitable in his verbal “Game of Chess;” the women’s chatter is unrelentingly shallow and bitchy. In “The Fire Sermon” he even identifies as the sexually mobile Tiresias, and in whichever setting and voice he occupies, he portrays sex as squalid, joyless and pointless. (Dr. Freud, please chime in!)The work is uncompromisingly modernist, larded with allusions, many of them obscure; challenging stuff, unlikely to appeal to the casual reader. But there are intriguing voices here and many a literary rabbit hole to explore. The entire poem strikes me as declamatory in nature, to be best appreciated if delivered orally by mixed voices — ideally incorporating a Greek chorus. Which again calls to mind Murder in the Cathedral, which I greatly admired many years ago as a student.I doubt if would have found Eliot a likable fellow had I encountered him in person, but he is never boring; and his work is always worth the effort required to comprehend it.
4504039581	This is a collection of poems that TS Eliot himself chose as a suitable introduction to his poetry. I certainly found them to be obscure, but even the obscurest of his poems left me with a sense of profundity, a lingering sort, almost disturbing sometimes, without ever knowing what it was exactly that made me feel that way, luring me back to reread, again and again, to make a little more sense of it before finally leaving it for another day. It captures you, but you cannot quite grasp it. Like death. Many of his poems involve the theme of death.Alas, I am too early in my hermeneutic cycle to write a real review. Too early in my life. Instead, I leave you with a few broken images of Eliot's "soundscape", as Seamus Heaney put it in the introduction. The ones that linger, disturb and lure:Streets that follow like a tedious argumentOf insidious intentTo lead you to an overwhelming question...I have measured out my life with coffee spoonsYou tossed the blanket from the bed,You lay upon your back, and waited;You dozed, and watched the night revealingThe thousand sordid imagesOf which your soul constituted;They flickered against the ceiling.Webster was much possessed by deathAnd saw the skull beneath the skin;And breastless creatures under groundLeaned backward with a lipless grinAnd I will show you something different from either Your shadow at morning striding to behind youOr your shadow at evening rising to meet you;I will show you fear in a handful of dust.This is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsNot with a bang but a whimper.The heavy burden of the growing soulPerplexes and offends more, day by day;Week by week, offends and perplexes moreWith the imperatives of 'is and seems'And may and may not, desire and control.When the Stranger says: 'What is the meaning of this City?Do you huddle close together because you love each other?'What will you answer? 'We all dwell togetherTo make money from each other'? or 'This is a community'?
5833891802	This selection of poetry by TS Eliot is not for the casual reader. A vast majority of the poetry included has references that went well over my head and will for you also if you are not well versed in the bible, Greek tragedies, and Shakespearean tragedies. Even the references which I did understand or tried to understand seemed to make the poetry more confusing. During my time reading I decided not to try and comprehend the references, but rather to just read the poems with out too much of an analytical eye. This approach seemed to work much better for Eliot, his poetry produced for me immense imagery, whether intended by the author or not. An obviously rather snooty high brow intention lingers in much of Eliots stanzas, if you are able to remove this aspect from the reading of the poetry it is considerably much more enjoyable. Particular highlights of this collection are The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock, The Waste Land, and The Hollow Men. There is a lingering sadness in much of the poetry, a remorse at what could’ve been and dread of what will be. The Waste Land captures a culmination of literary worlds, modernity pushing towards disaster, and our final destination of not just death but the apocalyptic waste land itself. It is quite clear the influence of The Waste Land on much of not just 20th century literature but the 20th Century in general. My personal favourite poem was The Love Song of J Alfred Prufock, which makes me think of a man who was one a romantic but never truly achieved anything of notable distinction and feels his life slipping by him. From the poem: Shall I part my hair behind? Do I dare to eat a peach?I shall wear white flannel trousers, and walk upon the beach.I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each.I do not think that they will sing to me.I have seen them riding seaward on the wavesCombing the white hair of the waves blown backWhen the wind blows the water white and black.We have lingered in the chambers of the seaBy sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brownTill human voices wake us, and we drown.
4768876328	I am unsure what edition of Eliot's poems I read. Whatever edition it was, it didn't include his plays so I'm going to go with this as an educated guess (although I read the e-book, but anyone who reads my reviews knows I'm total crap at picking the right edition... sorry readers)I know it included the two "big ones" The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock and the Waste-Land, both of which I have read multiple times.Those two are essential as are others that you will find. This is only about 100 pages long. At that length, you have nothing to lose. I always felt Eliot was one of those "Lost Generation" writers along with Fitzgerald, Hemingway, and Joyce except that he wrote poetry.This isn't my favorite thing in the world but I love the openness of his work for the reader to interpret it in their own way. This has always been striking to me about Eliot, and particularly his two most known masterpieces. It may not be a lengthy read, but you could dive in and interpret these words in any method you prefer.I believe his work is essential. Not perfect in its entirety (although Love Song and Waste-Land are close), but essential regardless. I wish they'd shoved this down my throat during high school instead of the garbage they chose to spoon-feed us.(note: I cannot honestly say I've read all of these, but I'd read most of them so this was kinda the second or more-go-round)~J
7254023845	Rating a collection as a whole isn't easy... Overall, I much prefer the poems of "Prufrock and Other Observations" to those listed in this collection under "Poems". And of course, "The Waste Land" is wonderful. "Prufrock and Other Observations": 4,5/5favourite poems: - The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock- Portrait of a Lady- Preludes- Hysteria"Poems" (those listed under it in this collection*): 3,25/5- favourite poem: Gerontion- didn't quite like the tone of some of the poems- not sure if I enjoyed the abundance of satire- just don't care for the Sweeney poems much"The Waste Land" 4,75/5*The original 1920 edition of "Poems" also includes the poems of "Prufrock and other observations"
7052241414	So the thing is that the poems in the beginning (Prufrock and Other Observations) I really enjoyed. The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock is such a lovely mellow poem ending in lines I thought about much after: "We have lingered in the chambers of the sea / By sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown / Till human voices wake us, and we drown." Even The Waste Land I enjoyed, but after that the poems become overly about religion. I might be simplifying here but the sound like some old guy rambling on about how the demise of west is soley caused by its secularisation.
2663116002	I struggle with Poetry but have been wanting to read more of it, so what better way than with a modernist classic? Uch. I was clearly naive. Wading through the dense imagery just to come up against Misogyny, racism and anti-Semitism was painful. The only one I connected with was The Hippopotamus. Otherwise I just got the feeling the Eliot was the kind of self-satisfied arrogant idiot who I would have wanted to punch.
6421364702	*3.25Quite liked a lot of the poems at the beginning but by the end I was bored. Choruses from the rocks were especially painful to get through. We get it, you hate atheism! Do you really have to right a collection of 10 poems (plus more outside the choruses) about it! Shut up!Favourites:The Love Song of J. Alfred PrufrockPreludesRhapsody on a Windy NightThe Burial of the DeadThe Fire SermonWhat the Thunder Said
7210639361	3.5/5Still trying to shake off the artsy quality of how I received poetry growing up, so throughout some of these poems I was half trying to be immersed in it and half feeling like there wasn’t much that was significantly different from a beginner’s poetry class where obscure phrases are written in an attempt to be profound. I was more immersed in the final few poems which I hope will become second nature in reading poetry.
2509673045	I think I'll have to return to these later in life. I found some definite merits in Prufrock and The Waste Land, but whatever aspect of them which has brought them universal acclaim eluded me. I do think, however, that The Hollow Men is an outstanding poetical achievement. And then the book trails off into irritating lamentations about spiritual decay...
4239047928	no five stars because i'm pretty sure i didnt' get even 50% of it. as poetry is, i will have to revisit these works. some that stuck in my mind include "Portrait of a Lady", "A Song for Simeon", and "Choruses from 'The Rock'". if rich, bleak commentary of godlessness and morality are your cup of tea, drink up.
2596510542	4/5FavouritesLove Song of Alfred PrufrockPreludesGerontionSweeney ErectThe HippopotamusWhispers of ImmortalityThe Waste-Land - (Parts I, II and V especially)The Hollow MenJourney of the Magi
3050075854	In high school a friend pushed The Hollow Men to me. At 17 I thought those lines were beyond cool. I still have, still read this book I bought a few months later. She is a professor now, just down the road. We catch up from time to time.
5665945606	so many stars in the margins for a thousand hauntingly beautiful lines — i can’t wait to meet ts eliot’s God
6398387031	Very poetical but like reading about visions in somebody's dream, I found it hard work.
5863485878	I'm sorry eliot I'm not smart enough but I love you king keep slaying
6635351100	Lot of poetry about god, I think it inspired some writers at bungie
6324211822	A pleasure to read I have heard of author most of my life but thus is the first book of his that I have finished.
6348349035	he is my baby
3060638697	would probably enjoy more if i wasn't so confused/needed both a dictionary and a translation for nearly every poem. 'Prufrock' remains one of my all-time favorites, though!
3232601549	There are parts I like very much and parts where I feel like I'm reading a bunch of unrelated words in random order.
6499773614	The edition I got had some poems there that nowadays Faber and Faver might keep away from their catalogue. Even if it's T.S. Elliot
