2082250828	”We were like gods, at the dawning of the world, and our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.”This book!!! Gosh I loved this book!!! The moment I read the first page I was already certain of two things:1.) This would become one of my all-time favourites and I’d gush about it like crazy.2.) It wouldn’t only leave me devastated and heartbroken but also sobbing like a little child. Well, both of those things came true, even way earlier than I had initially anticipated. I was about 37% percent in (yes I looked it up! ;-P) when I first started to cry and it didn’t get any better after that. This book was just so beautiful! So, so damn beautiful! Madeline Miller definitely has a way with words and I loved how this story was written: Poetical with a lot of mythological facts and with so many details that it succeeded to make this a more than just intriguing journey. What I loved the most was how she managed to convey Achilles’ and Patroclus relationship though. Even though she never went into detail, never actually let them say that they loved each other; it was still palpable in every single moment they shared together. Those moments were so precious I couldn’t get enough of them and all I wanted was for them to be happy. Unfortunately I’m a little geek and know a lot about Greek mythology so yeah, I already knew how it would end before it even ended. Still, the sense of foreboding in this book!!! Oh gosh, it killed me!! All those little hints, those infinitesimal innuendos, those tiny insinuations, they piled up and up and up until all I was able to feel was dread!!! By the end of the book I was reduced to a sobbing and crying nervous wreck and the final sentence was like a dagger in my heart. In other words:This was exceptionally painful and utterly devastating, BUTit was also so damn good and worth every second of pain!The characters: This is my spoiler section in which I’m going to speak about the individual characters and what I thought of them. So you better beware and don’t read it if you still want to read the book. Heed my warning or get lost in the underworld. It’s your choice, choose wisely! ;-P Achilles:’Ah.’ A sly smile spread across his face; he had always loved defiance. ‘Well, why should I kill him? He’s done nothing to me.’This sentence killed me when I first read it! Achilles, my beautiful, innocent and naïve boy!!! Jeez! I loved him so much! He was every bit the hero people believed him to be and most of the time he actually did the right thing. Well, most of the time. At the end of the book there happened a lot of things I didn’t agree with and the longer his conflict with Agamemnon lasted the more I dreaded the end! It made me so sad to see how much Achilles changed over the years and when the thing with Briseis happened my reaction was the same as Patroclus’! I mean I knew what Achilles did (I’m a geek remember?) but reading it the way Madeline Miller wrote it? Boy it destroyed me! There was this wonderful, perfect, righteous, honourable, intelligent, innocent and honest golden boy and then the war over Troy tainted him, transformed him and made him an entirely different person. The true tragedy about this all is that he never even wanted to take part in the war, he was more or less forced into it and I think looking at it in retrospective a life as a normal person would have been preferable to the one of a hero. I guess in the end Achilles saw it the same way and would have done everything in order to change his path. Even if it would have meant that he would have been forgotten and would have never become a legend… it would have been worth it. Patroclus would have been worth it… *cries*”I stopped watching for ridicule, the scorpion’s tail hidden in his words. He said what he meant; he was puzzled if you did not. Some people might have mistaken this for simplicity. But is it not a sort of genius to cut always to the heart?””Your honour could be darkened by it.”“Then it is darkened.” His jaw shot forward, stubborn. “They are fools if they let my glory rise or fall on this.”“But Odysseus –“His eyes, green as spring leaves, met mine. “Patroclus. I have given enough to them. I will not give them this.””They grinned, loving every inch of their miraculous prince: his gleaming hair, his deadly hands, his nimble feet. They leaned towards him, like flowers to the sun, drinking in his lustre. It was as Odysseus had said: he had light enough to make heroes of them all.””It is not true. You left yourself today. And now you are returned.”His shoulders rise and fall on a long breath. “Do not say that,” he says, “until you have heard the rest of what I have done.”Patroclus:”I went to Peleus. I knelt before him on a wool rug, woven bright with purple. He started to speak, but I was too quick for him. One of my hands went to clasp his knees, the other reached upward, to seize his chin with my hand. The pose of supplication. It was a gesture I had seen many times, but had never made myself. I was under his protection now; he was bound to treat me fairly, by the law of the gods.‘Tell me where he is,’ I said.”I adored Patroclus! He was the best! He was wonderful and beautiful in his own way and I loved how faithful he was. That boy was one of the kindest and sweetest people I ever read about (tough competition for Lazlo Strange *lol*) and I was so happy Achilles saw this too. He realized that Patroclus is special and he encouraged him to speak his mind. It felt like Patroclus was Achilles’ conscience, intervening whenever his divine heritage showed. Without Patroclus Achilles path would have been dark and bloody but with him at his side he became the glorious figure we all know about. Patroclus was so much more than just a companion. He was a friend, a lover, a teacher, a conscience, a reminder and Achilles past, present and future! This boy was literally the embodiment of Achilles life and actions and the people around them were fools for not seeing their strong connection. Patroclus was everything that was good about Achilles, he brought out the best in him. Taught him compassion and love, he was an anchor and someone he could come home to! Speak to! Confide in! Once Patroclus was gone the relentless godly part of Achilles showed though and the rest of it is (bloody) history. T_T’Patroclus.’ It was the name my father had given me, hopefully but injudiciously, at my birth, and it tasted of bitterness on my tongue. ‘Honour of the father,’ it meant.”Perhaps she thought I was mocking her, flourishing my triumph. Perhaps she thought I hated her. She did not know that I almost asked him, a hundred times, to be a little kinder to her. You do not have to humiliate her so thoroughly, I thought. But it was not kindness he lacked, it was interest. His gaze passed over her as if she were not here.”’Willl you come with me?’ he asked.The never-ending ache of love and sorrow. Perhaps in some other life I could have refused, could have torn my hair and screamed, and made him face his choice alone. But not in this one. He would sail to Troy and I would follow, even into death. Yes, I whispered. Yes.”I do not know this man, I think. He is no one I have ever seen before. My rage towards him is hot as blood. I will never forgive him. I imagine tearing down our tent, smashing the lyre, stabbing myself in the stomach and bleeding to death. I want to see his face broken with grief and regret. I want to shatter the cold mask of stone that has slipped down over the boy I knew. He has given her to Agamemnon knowing what will happen.”Odysseus:”May I give you some advice? If you are truly his friend you will help him leave his soft heart behind. He’s going to Troy to kill men, not rescue them.” His dark eyes held me like swift-running current. “He is a weapon, a killer. Do not forget it. You can use a spear as a walking stick, but that will not change its nature.”Damn, how much I hated and liked that sneaky and cunning bastard!! I’m still very torn when it comes to him. On the one hand he gave sound advice and knew exactly what he did and on the other hand he forced Achilles on his destined path. If it wouldn’t have been for Odysseus he would have never gone to Troy and even though I agree with his sentiment that Achilles could save them all, I still disagree with the way he played him. Of all the countless men that manipulated young Achilles, Odysseus probably was the worst, hiding behind the mask of a friend but ultimately pursuing his own goals. Clever! Very clever indeed! Agamemnon:”Then you are a traitor to this army, and will be punished like one. Your war prizes are hostage, placed in my care until you offer your obedience and submission. Let us start with that girl. Briseis, is her name? She will do as a penance for the girl you have forced me to return.”I HATE AGAMEMNON!!! Fiercely!!! Such an unfair and dishonourable numpty!!! I hate him and all his actions! I mean what kind of father would trade his daughter away and then kill her?! His own flesh and blood! Gosh, I CAN’T EVEN WITH HIM!! I’m still so angry! Those moments at the end and the tense situation between Achilles and him had me at the edge of my seat and all I wanted to do was to scream at the injustice that took place in front of me!!! Such a stubborn and self-righteous fool!! He should have listened to Achilles but he was too proud to. *shakes head in disbelief* I. HATE. HIM!!! Enough said! Thetis:Another person that landed on my shit list! *lol* I really, really disliked her too! I mean I understand that she was Achilles mother and only wanted the best for her son, but it was more than just obvious that the best was Patroclus and I hated her for always trying to drive a wedge between them! Without Thetis half of their troubles wouldn’t have even existed and even though she kind of redeemed herself in the end I still don’t like her! Sorry Thet, but you’ll never get a thumbs-up from me! #SorryNotSorrryThe relationship:Achilles & Patroclus:”This morning he had leaped on to my bed and pressed his nose against mine. ‘Good morning,’ he’d said. I remembered the heat of him against my skin.”Ohh how sweet those two were! I loved their relationship! They were so gentle and adorable and no matter what happened and no matter how many obstacles were in their way they always managed to find back to each other! They had confidence in each other and they supported each other regardless of the consequences. Achilles and Patroclus had such an honest and beautiful relationship, I CAN’T EVEN!!!! THIS was the real deal!!! A connection so deep that no one could destroy it, a love so strong that it cast aside all obstacles, their trust so deep that they could talk about everything!!! Boy, I could gush about this relationship at eye level for eternity and still would never get tired of it! *lol* I just adore them so much! It was so sweet they couldn’t even be angry with each other and even though Patroclus wasn’t always happy with Achilles decisions, he still did his best to support him as best as he could, even if that meant that he had to go against his will. I think in the end their unconditional love for each other was the only thing that was able to break them and it eventually did. Jeez! How it did! *cries again* Achilles had no reason to kill Hector, no reason to fulfil the prophecy. Well, at least not until Hector took the only thing that mattered to him, the only thing he didn’t want to live without. Patroclus! *sobs* Hell! The way Achilles grieved!!! It broke my freaking heart!!! It was like a punch in the gut! I know first-hand how much this hurts, how painful it is to lose a person you love so much, and boy did it trigger my emotions. T_T I felt Achilles grief with him and it was so intense it left me crying and sobbing. They were so beautiful together… so, so, so damn beautiful. I can’t anymore… *weeps* ”I saw then how I had changed. I did not mind any more, that I lost when we raced and I lost when we swam out to the rocks and I lost when we tossed spears or skipped stones. For who can be ashamed to lose to such beauty? It was enough to watch him win, to see the soles of his feet flashing as they kicked up sand, or the rise and fall of his shoulders as he pulled through the salt. It was enough.””My pulse jumps, for no reason I can name. He has looked at me a thousand times, but there is something different in this gaze, an intensity I do not know. My mouth is dry, and I can hear the sound of my throat as I swallow.He watches me. It seems that he is waiting.””His eyes were unwavering, green flecked with gold. A certainty rose in me, lodged in my throat. I will never leave him. It will be this, always, for as long as he will let me.””Had she really thought I would not know him? I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell, I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.””You can’t.” He was sitting up now, leaning forward.“I can’t.”“I know. They never let you be famous and happy.” He lifted an eyebrow. “I’ll tell you a secret.”“Tell me.” I loved it when he was like this.“I’m going to be the first.” He took my palm and held it to him. “Swear it.”“Why me?”“Because you’re the reason. Swear it.”“I swear it,” I said, lost in the high colour of his cheeks, the flame in his eyes.“I swear it,” he echoed.”There was more to say, but for once we did not say it. There would be other times for speaking, tonight and tomorrow and all the days after that. He let go of my hand.”All told this was one of the most beautiful books I’ve ever read. It caused me to cry, it made me angry, it made me smile and it touched me deeply. I’m a total mess after reading this and my emotions are still all over the place, to say I regret reading it would be one hell of a lie though.I rarely write this into my reviews but: If you haven’t read this, do it now!!! You won’t regret it! =)Last but not least I want to thank my Sweet Sugar Bun who dared to buddy read this book with me! Thank you for all the comments, messages and updates that made it bearable to read this book. I swear if you wouldn’t have discussed this with me I would have cried even more often than I already did. *lol* So yeah, thanks for that wonderful buddy read and for keeping my sanity intact. I really appreciate it! XD We definitely should go for another buddy read some time soon! I heard “Circe” is a nice book too! *lol* ;-PIn the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood, like a hundred golden urns pouring out the sun.”Artist credit: I really tried my best to track down the artist but all I could find out is that the picture was shared again and again on pinterest. One of the people who shared it is: https://www.pinterest.com/avalonisles/ I don't have pinterest so I dunno how this works?!
2376455771	”He was a marvel, shaft after shaft flying from him, spears that he wrenched easily from broken bodies on the ground to toss at new targets. Again and again I saw his wrist twist, exposing its pale underside, those flute-like bones thrusting elegantly forward. My spear sagged forgotten to the ground as I watched. I could not even see the ugliness of the deaths anymore, the brains, the shattered bones that later I would wash from my skin and hair. All I saw was his beauty, his singing limbs, the quick flickering of his feet.” Madeline Miller studied Latin and Ancient Greek from Brown University and even more interestingly studied at the Yale School of Drama, specializing in adapting classical tales for a modern audience. I ignored this book when it first came out because I had read The Iliad twice and plan to read it many more times if the Gods grant me enough time to do so. A reimagining of Homer’s words? There is enough debate over translations of the original source documentation without adding in additional controversy over Miller’s interpretation of events. Or so I thought.After all, aren’t these books designed for a “modern audience” who will never even attempt to read Homer? I am not the target audience, as there is very little modern about me. I have ancient book dust permanently lodged in my lungs. I cough, and the air is redolent with the scent of decaying leather and the intoxicating smell of the slightly hallucinatory book fungi. Miller is doing good work, though, bringing Homer to life for a new generation. Her books are not for me. Or so I thought. When her book Galatea came out, I barely even flinched. A mild flickering of interest, but I was up to my eyeballs in books to read so I easily dissuaded myself from giving it much thought. Deciding to read Galatea would also mean that I would need to read Song of Achilles first because I do believe that books by serious authors build upon one another. I wasn’t taking Miller serious...yet. Part of my resistance came from the fact that I’m not a big fan of Achilles. He might have been ”The Greatest Warrior of his Generation,” but I didn’t find him very heroic. Now Hector, poor doomed Hector, to me he was the hero of The Iliad. I didn’t really want to read a book glorifying Achilles and how effortless it was for him to kill a hundred Trojans in one lazy, bloody afternoon. Or so I thought. The lovely and talented Madeline Miller.I fully expected Miller to fade back into the woodwork of academia, but then this year she published Circe. With one raised Nadalesque eyebrow, I thought to myself, now Circe is someone I don’t know nearly enough about. The five star reviews started raining down on me like thunderbolts from the fingers of Zeus. Cupid shot a quiver full of arrows at me, piercing me in numerous appendages until I looked like Saint Sebastian. If I could have gotten my hands on that pink tinted, chubby, precocious toddler, I’d have turned him over my knee and paddled him with his own bow. Really, I must confess that my new found love for Achilles, Patroclus, Briseis, Chiron, Odysseus, and even Madeline Miller herself could be the result of those love poison tipped arrows. Regardless, does it matter the reason why? Even in an addled state, there is no way I would ever confuse great writing for poorly conceived writing. As I was reading through my notes and savoring favorite passages again, now that Cupid’s fog has cleared from my mind, I must say Miller is a wonderful, lyrical writer. It all begins with a rape. The Greek Gods want to reward Peleus for being such a good subject and decide that he should be given a sea nymph named Thetis as his bride. ”It was considered their highest honor. After all, what mortal would not want to bed a goddess and sire a son from her? Divine blood purified our muddy race, bred heroes from dust and clay. And this goddess brought a greater promise still: the Fates had foretold that her son would far surpass his father. Peleus’ line would be assured. But, like all the gods’ gifts, there was an edge to it; the goddess herself was unwilling.”The Gods whisper in his ear. Don’t even bother trying to woo her with kelp flowers, Aquaoir Ocean aged wine, or shrimp cocktail. The Greek Gods, being rampant assaulters of unsuspecting, pink cheeked, mortal maidens, have no compunction about advocating rape. Jump her on the beach, take her, and make her thine! The Greek Islands are lousy with half Gods. You will meet many of them in the course of this story. Achilles is the greatest of them all. Greater than Hercules. His chosen companion is Patroclus, the disgraced and banished son of a king, an odd choice in many eyes as the closest friend of the greatest warrior. Patroclus is, after all, rather unremarkable at...well...everything. It doesn’t matter, though, because Achilles is good enough at everything for the both of them. Thetis is rather annoyed at his choice. She doesn’t feel that Patroclus is good enough to spend so much time with her son. Her favorite greeting for Patroclus is: ”You will be dead soon enough.” With Patroclus being the narrator of this story, it is rather poor judgement on her part. Any quest I’ve been on I have always plied the narrator with honeyed wine and the most succulent figs in the hope that I would be rewarded in the prose and poetry of his/her telling of the tale. Achilles and Patroclus by Barry J.C. PurvesHomer skates around the closeness between Achilles and Patroclus, although much can be read between the lines. There is also the possibility that some homophobic Christian hundreds of years later made some deft corrections to the original, obscuring any overt reference to a homosexual relationship. Homer may have been blind, but his ears must have heard the rustling of the reed mats whether he was an “eye” witness to the Trojan War or an interpreter of events many years later. Madeline Miller wades into the sweaty bedsheet truth of the matter, and yes, the Greatest Warrior to ever live is light in his sandals. Miller puts flesh on these ancient bones, Gods and mortals alike, and brings a freshness to one of our most venerated stories. Though I resisted, it turns out that Madeline Miller was writing these books for me. She has also given me a burning desire to read The Iliad again while her interpretation is still imprinted so deeply in my mind. I have a feeling my reading experience will be deepened and her observations will glow like phosphorus between the lines.If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visithttp://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten
1660390379	1.5 stars.Aw man, where do I start with this one?I know that the big majority of people love this book. They cried and were heartbroken and it was the best thing they ever read and shit, but for me? It was just so boring. The characters were horrendous, if I wanted to read about the most useless, passive and boring narrator being in love with this attractive, golden god, dude with no personality, and when he does have one, he just turns to a selfish prick, I would reread Twilight. Seriously, can Patroclus be any more of a Bella?The writing was mediocre, the author clearly knows her stuff, but the dialogues were often ridiculous, the pacing was off. This story NEVER seemed to end. Now I wonder: how the hell does an epic tale become such a bland, flat story? Ok, confession time, I never read The Iliad. I am 90% sure I read The Odyssey twice in my school years, yup, blame it on my school to make us read the same book twice just years apart. I am, however, familiar with this story. I enjoy Greek mythology and I was all for this book and its premise. But it was just not for me.My biggest problem with the book was the characters, like I said before, they were awful characters. Patroclus is portrayed from the beginning as this weak, bland guy who can't defend himself and, throughout the book, that never changes. He is one of the most passive characters I've ever read. He is there solely to admire every physical aspect of Achilles, damn this guy had a thing for homeboy's feet. Seriously Patroclus, we get it, Achilles's feet were soft and pink and smell amazing. I got the message, and I also got how golden his skin and hair and everything in him was. Guy's hot, noted. What drove me crazy was the fact that Achilles really was the sole reason of Patroclus's existence. Without him, he didn't know how to do anything, he didn't have a reason to live and I just, ugh, really? We are going there? The whole ''if he dies, I'll die too cause there's nothing for me after him'' speech? Ugh. Even though Achilles and Patroclus had zero chemistry (seriously how many times do these guys talk, like really talk, in this book?) Do I have to believe that this good for nothing kind of guy, with no personality whatsoever, is actually the most beloved person for the best of the greeks? For this demigod? I just can't buy into this relationship that happens to be the entire focus of this book. It's like the author takes for granted that we know this is a love story between them so why bother to actually develop a relationship?Achilles, he had no personality either until almost the very end of this book and then he turns into this selfish, proud asshole that even though is letting everyone be killed and failing to notice how dumb his decision is, is still admired and revered by Patroclus... I just...this book is just so dumb sometimes.Of the story I can't say much because nothing happens. Seriously, we spend years in places and there's nothing to further the plot, it's like we are just waiting for the call against Troy. It is so boring and in this time, there's never a change in these characters. To me, the 8 years old Patroclus is the same Patroclus at the end. I don't know if it is because the story is told in past tense or if it's definitely a mistake from the author, but it reads the same. Through Patroclus's childhood, adolescence and adulthood, the character and his views feel exactly the same, which is ridiculous. For example, when all their greeks companions are dying and Achilles refuses to fight, even though Patroclus knows it's the stupidest decision ever, he refuses to say something and act, so what do they do? They both just consider to maybe swim or play later that day... I repeat, this book can be so dumb.I don't understand Thetis role in here and why was Achilles so devoted to hear her and always obey her. Why was Achilles the perfect son, I don't understand because they clearly had a lot of issues.I can't really say more, because I would be criticizing the same things over and over. I had a lot of issues with this book, this book took me more than a month to read More than a month! A book that I was planning to finish in 4 days... It seemed like it would NEVER end. The prophecy said that Achilles would die shortly after Hector, you don't know how many times I was rooting for this dude to die so everything could end soon. JUST SOMEONE COULD PLEASE KILL HECTOR NOW.Anyway, if you liked this book, and judging by the ratings and reviews everyone and their mother loved this book, good for you! I personally had one of the most boring and frustrating experiences reading this. Maybe I would have enjoyed it more if I had read the Iliad, but I sincerely doubt it. That being said, the only thing and character I truly enjoyed was Odysseus. You go, Odysseus. You da best Odysseus!
826637915	Madeline Miller did what the movie producers of the film Troy (2004) were too cowardly to do; she stayed true to the homosexuality of Homer’s Iliad rather than writing a censored version of the story which stank of homophobia. Achilles and Patroclus were passionately in love, which resulted in their respective destructions. They were not cousins or man at arms, but soul mates. The watering down of this in the film Troy was an insult to the LGBT community. Nothing more. Nothing less. The attraction between these two men wasn’t something that was rushed and squandered. It was built up, ever so slowly, and delivered eloquently. The two were friends from boyhood, and Patroclus was enamoured by Achilles after just one glance. He didn’t want to be parted from him. The two grew up together, they fought together, they learnt together and they developed together. They became inseparable and reliant on each other. Their sexual relationship just matured as they did it; it was the most natural thing in the world. Like all relationships, there were issues. The two weren’t without their differences. They clashed and quarrelled but only because they truly cared for each other. Patroclus wanted to end the war, and Achilles didn’t think the fight was worthy of his name: he wanted a bigger war to fight in. So, Patroclus, in his most bravest and stupid move goes against his lover’s wish and tries to end the war with a stroke of his sword. But he is no Achilles: he is not a god of war. He was out of his depth, outmatched and doomed. It could only end in tragedy - "Achilles Laments the Death of Patroclus" 1767. I’ve not included a spoiler warning because everybody knows the story of Homer’s Iliad. Well, at least, I hope they do! Following the traditional narrative arc, Achilles goes on a mad rampage to avenge the death of his beloved. In the process he simultaneously destroys and immortalises himself. He got what he wanted, but not in the way he wanted it. I love the way the author wrote this, I could really feel the desperate rage of an Achilles who had lost the only thing that mattered to him in the world. I’m so glad the author didn’t deviate from the suggestions of homosexuality that were present in Homer’s writing. This would have failed dramatically had she done so. There would have been no power, and, again, like the film Troy it would have been abysmal. The romance plot in here is one of the truest and believable I’ve read to date: it was strong and real. However, this is not to downplay the other aspects of the story. It is driven by romance, but it is not defined by it. There is also a story of growth, and the story of warrior who is out to prove his strength and honour in a world driven by war. He just happens to like guys. A strong four stars p.s- I’ve purposely avoided images of the movie Troy in this review. Anybody who has seen it and read this book really shouldn’t be putting the two side by side, at least, not if they want to make their review fair. One is an insult to the story, the other a novelisation of a timeless classic.___________________________________You can connect with me on social media via My Linktree.__________________________________
759932292	A new take on the Iliad, written by a high school classics teacher -- how could I not read this? The Song of Achilles retells the story of Greece's greatest hero from the point of view of his best friend Patroclus. The big twist: Madeline Miller casts the story as a romance between Achilles and Patroclus. While staying true to Greek legends and the works of Homer, Miller creatively and convincingly fills in the blanks, giving Patroclus a back story that makes perfect sense, and tracing the friendship, and eventual romance, between the two young men in a way that casts a new light on the human side of the Trojan War.I always found Achilles to be an unsympathetic character -- a brat, a bully, a big-headed jerk who knows he's the star player on the team and throws a tantrum if he gets put on the bench. Miller shows his unattractive qualities, but she also shows that Achilles is human. He's capable of love. He's deeply conflicted. He has a sense of humor and a gentle side. We see him through Patroclus's eyes, growing from a privileged child to a sensitive teen to a young man struggling to balance his personal feelings with the expectations of an entire country. If you've read the Iliad, you know that the story will have a tragic end, but it's also strangely uplifting and hopeful. I'll never be able to read about these characters the same way again, and that's a good thing. Reading The Song of Achilles put a new light on this ancient story. It was like watching a really good interpretation of a Shakespeare play. You think you know the story, but you're surprised to find how many layers of new meaning can be brought out by a smart production.The book is certainly appropriate for YA and up. The prose is elegant in its simplicity. Miller gives Patroclus a Hemmingway-like directness. I read a New York Times review of this book which I thought patently unfair, complaining that the style made the book seem like a fast-food version of the Iliad. I think this misses the whole point of the story. Patroclus's mission in The Song of Achilles is to cut through the legend of the hero and show us the mortal side of demigod. He doesn't want the pompous metaphors and flowery hyperbole of a war epic to bury Achilles's other qualities -- his tenderness, his insecurity, his honesty and lack of guile. The Song of Achilles can serve as an excellent introduction or counterpoint to the study of the Iliad. It certainly made the story new and vibrant for me, despite how many times I've read Homer.
3050279001	***2 stars***I know this is an unpopular opinion, but I did not like this book. And I must confess that the fault partly lies with me, because I did not read the blurb before I dived in. After having loved Miller's Circe, it was a no-brainer that I'd want to read her take on the Trojan War - so I left it at that and just began reading. Lesson learned, because I wanted this to be more historical fiction, yet it was basically just romance fantasy - hence my disappointment.In this tale the narrator is Patroclus, best friend and lover of Achilles. Even though I haven't read The Iliad (yet), and I know that Patroclus was not necessarily one of the greatest Greek warriors, I do know that he played a major role in the Greek victory over the Trojans. And Madeline chose to portray him as a weakling in her story, which I think is a shame.From a romance novel point of view the love story between the two didn't work for me because I think that throughout the book Patroclus was too dependent and clingy and I don't like that type of relationship. His life only revolves around this great, beautiful hero and more often than not, it seemed that he was by Achilles' side on every step - even when he isn't supposed to be, he tags along anyway. I wish he was more of his own person, a more dynamic character and also a more competent fighter, instead of this physically weak person. I am a big enough romance fan, but at times this was too soapy for my taste.From a mythological novel point of view - if you are seeking a book about the Greek and Trojan war, I personally suggest skipping this one. In my opinion it is barely a retelling of myth, because only writing about the private lives, loves and bedrooms of classical gods/demigods/heroes does nothing to make us understand the grounds on which classicism was built. For me it was disappointing, since I really wanted the richness of the actual story and not just romance. Not only was Patroclus and Achilles' love story the main focus, it was pretty much the only subject matter throughout. Could have been really well done if the events of Troy were more thoroughly framed in the context of the love story.But hey! If you're looking for a socially relevant, modern treatment of a classic tale or simply for some romance fantasy, this might be the perfect read for you!
4098741241	"Name one hero who was happy . . . You can't . . . I'll tell you a secret . . . I'm going to be the first." Achilles is destined to become the greatest warrior of his generation. But before that, he is just a boy growing up in Phthia with his devoted companion Patroclus by his side. The two are sent away to the mountains to be trained, but it isn't long before war comes calling when Helen of Troy is kidnapped. Achilles is forced to choose between eternal glory and mediocrity, but with greatness comes a price that Achilles and Patroclus will both have to pay.Well, now I feel a bit silly for having waited so long to read this! If I had known how remarkable and thrilling of a tale The Song of Achilles is, I would have gobbled it up years ago.I thought it was really interesting that this story is told from Patroclus's perspective. In Greek mythology, Patroclus is a minor character and hardly ever mentioned, but he is central to this tale. And through his eyes, we are able to see all the facets of Achilles: the making of a hero though still a boy at heart, shining and bright, easily seduced by glory, and ultimately a tragic figure.It's not easy to take a beloved and much-revered story and make it your own, but Miller did a masterful job. This retelling feels fresh and sharp, relevant to the modern audience while still staying true to the original material. It has everything you would expect from Greek mythology: love, war, glory, sacrifice, and redemption. I was hooked from the first page to the last.This has one of the best endings I've come across in a long time. It isn't so much what happens as the way it is written. Visceral and gut-wrenching, it builds in power and emotion until I was good and blubbering. It gave me all the feels.It took me so long to get to this book. I think I was afraid it wouldn't live up to all the hype I'd heard over the years. But it was worth the wait. Stunning, epic, and beautifully-written, it's a coming-of-age story, but also one of war and love and sacrifice. It's truly a memorable tale.~~~~~~~~~~~~See also, my thoughts on:Circe~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧
3642838306	"The never-ending ache of love and sorrow."There are a few books I come across everyday while going through my GR feed, and The Song of Achilles is at top of that list. Rightly so, I have to agree, the heart-wrenching ending notwithstanding. Spoiling this book for future readers would be a crime, so while I'm sharing my thoughts, I'll do my best not to overshare."We obey our kings, but only within reason."Patroclus - the lesser known hero - being the protagonist helps narrate the story of Achilles from a very unique standpoint. While the sequence of events does follow the Trojan war, war part only feels like a sub-plot which complements the main plot beautifully. The reader would rarely await the outcomes of war, for, the amazing and somewhat poetic narrative keeps one deeply immersed in the feelings of the main character. Still, you'll come across the brutalities of war as well, and how they change the characters and their personalities as the story progresses. "I find the folly of men amusing."As I was finishing the first half of the book, it didn't feel that eventful or impressive in itself. Sure, it was interesting and had a nice flow to it, with some intricate details about both Achilles and Patroclus, but it didn't feel like anything new: a regular romance novel. But as you finish through the last chapters, those seemingly uneventful - though quite emotional - first half will deepen the reader's emotions profoundly. I think a re-read of this might prove very difficult, especially with the first half, with being familiar with the ending. Still, you'll definitely re-read this."No man is worth more than another, wherever he is from."It might be easy to hate Achilles during the latter half of the story, based on some of his decisions, and rightly so. But, I think it's a good thing that the author did not alter his character to fix those flows. The objective of the story was never to portrait the greatness of Achilles. And as for the ending: it was as emotional and beautiful as it could be. Madeline Miller had done justice to Patroclus with The Song of Achilles perfectly. " 'Go,' she says. 'He waits for you.' "
4607708890	Please don’t start a war but Lisa of Troy rates this 5 starsThe Song of Achilles is a retelling of classic Greek mythology involving Patroclus and Achilles, specifically covering the battle of Troy. Earlier this week, I read some original Greek mythology, a play called Medea by Euripides (and yes Medea and her husband Jason are referenced in The Song of Achilles). It was written in 431 BC, more than 2,400 years ago. Greek mythology is incredibly interesting. The characters are unique, imperfect, have a rich and interesting backstory, and don’t necessarily conform to gender norms. The play itself only takes about 1 hour and 45 minutes to read. However, because the language is so archaic, I spent more time referring to reference materials on Medea than it took me for the actual reading.This book is brilliant because the language has been modernized. This reads much smoother than Medea. The action is fast-paced, and the writing style of short paragraphs makes for a quick read. Additionally, the storytelling itself is incredible. The author tells the story in a very compelling way. Instead of focusing on guts and glory, Miller weaves in the romance between Patroclus and Achilles. She also sets the stage for fascinating political and moral dilemmas. Overall, this was an incredible emotional journey, and one of the best (if not the best) retellings that I have ever read. 2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango
398998153	I am going to disagree with the Orange Prize committee. I am going to disagree with thousands of goodreads reviewers. This book is crap.Okay, all you trolls. Go ahead and tell me what a philistine I am, how ignorant I am of Greek literature and mythology, and how my failure to appreciate this book reflects my limitations rather than those of the book. You don't really need to bother defending this book, because the masses seem to agree with you. But if you ask me, this was a Harlequin. Boring Patroclus is wholly infatuated with the impossibly perfect Achilles, who, even more impossibly, returns Patroclus's passion. Lots of purple prose, lots of love, daring battles, blah, blah, blah. I got about halfway through and decided I was finished wasting my time.I'm fine with Patroclus and Achilles being in love, but a little complexity PLEASE. How about some characterization? How about some relationship tension from within, not just without?I've read some glorified Harlequins that managed to break my snob barrier -- Outlander and Water for Elephants to name just two. Sadly, this one didn't. Perhaps this was, in part, because all the accolades led me to expect something far more literary or deep. And maybe had I read The Iliad I would be more excited by the references and more forgiving of the book's flaws.So feel free not to take my word for it, but I found this book incredibly disappointing.
2177890603	ACHILLES, it reads. And beside it, PATROCLUS. Can anyone please call my boss and let her know I may not go to work for a week or so? I need time to recover from this book that m u r d e r e d me. No kidding, here. I think getting a Brazilian wax wouldn't have hurt this much.I'm an ugly sobbing mess, running nose and hair pulling included. Wow. What a-wow! I have no words. I can't remember the last time a book made me weep so much. This is honestly the kind of book I prefer: zero dull moments, fast-paced, character characterization (lol what is this) on point, and stuffed with all the feels and angst a novel is capable of containing. It was wonderful, poetic and the writing was 100/10 perfect. If you haven't read it already, please do yourself a favor and give it a try. Goooosh, I'm still shaking. Favorite book of 2017!A huge thanks goes to this gorgeous lady for recommending it to me. You were right, I did do love it! <3
3845835521	Real fans already know: I'm heartless. I'm soulless. My resting temperature is 35 degrees Fahrenheit and I have a deep abyss where my cardiac system is supposed to be.So it shouldn't be surprising to anyone who is familiar with me that this book didn't make me feel much of anything.I didn't read the Percy Jackson books in elementary school (I was too busy sneaking into the teen section at the library and reading books that would cause me to ask my mom what a bl*wj*b is at 9 years old). I don't read much historical fiction now. Mythology generally is like a worse version of fairytales in my mind.Anyway this was a recipe for disaster, is what I'm saying, and instead it was just. Kind of boring? To me.So really that's a compliment, I guess.Bottom line: Not my cup of tea!-----------pre-reviewme and madeline miller just don't get along.review to come / 3 stars-----------currently-reading updatesthat day has arrived.-----------tbr reviewsaving this for a day i want to cry during
2336719688	‘we were like gods at the dawning of the world, and our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.’ i must be a masochist because i can think of no other reason to endure the emotional and stunning pain of this story for a fifth time. but here i am. crying for my sweet, sweet patroclus. the best of men. the best of the myrmidons. <3______________________________its been nearly 12 hours since i finished this and i still am at a loss for words at the beauty of this book. i dont think i have ever read anything as gorgeous as this and nothing i write will even come close to describing its loveliness. truly, a touching masterpiece. and i will forever be singing its praises until the end of my days. ↠ every star, to give patroclus his own constellation
4334569868	The writing is great and I enjoyed reading about the tender relationship between Patroclus and Achilles, but I'm not a fan of Greek mythology and thus couldn't care enough for the story unfortunately (especially since it gets so slow-paced during the war). I dig the ending though for the drama!
3435259728	In my mind, they never left Pelion.
503001400	Epic.
2449450565	Achilles is kinda dramatic ngl
2755412352	patroclus: constantly gushing about achilles' outer and inner beauty, like 80% of the timeme: *remembering brad pitt's chiseled abs and legs in troy (2004)* same boi
1868065893	remember tht part where it was like:achilles: lol listen my mom can’t spy on us anymore 👅patroclus: 👀 achilles: 👀
3212975717	4.5/5 starsBeautifully heartbreaking and tragic, Madelline Miller’s first novel burst with palpable emotions.Countless amazing things have been raised and sang for the Miller’s craft on The Song of Achilles and Circe, and that speaks volumes on how ridiculous it is that it took me this long to finally get around to reading it. In truth, there was a hesitancy inside me; The Illiad, the stories of Achilles, Hector, and Odysseus are stories that I’ve read and heard about so many times before in several mediums. In my mind, before I read this book, I simply didn’t think that I would love reading another retelling surrounding this tale again. As you can guess from my high rating, Miller has righted the wrong notion that nestled deep in me. “True. But fame is a strange thing. Some men gain glory after they die, while others fade. What is admired in one generation is abhorred in another." He spread his broad hands. "We cannot say who will survive the holocaust of memory. Who knows?" He smiles. "Perhaps one day even I will be famous. Perhaps more famous than you.” If there’s one thing that we can agree and admire about Achilles, it would be his strength. Almost every story about the legend of Achilles portrayed him on a similar nature; he’s a mortal who possesses godlike abilities for battles. Bow down before his prowess. And it’s not like Miller didn’t include Achilles’ skills for devastation in her retelling; she did magnificently. However, Miller goes above and beyond by humanizing him through Patroclus’ eyes. Miller starts the story from Patroclus’ and Achilles’ childhood, and she successfully showed the genuine development in their characterizations and relationship that the passage of time can’t prevent. “He is a weapon, a killer. Do not forget it. You can use a spear as a walking stick, but that will not change its nature.” The entire novel is told exclusively through the first perspective of Patroclus, and this is what sets Miller’s retelling apart from so many other media. This reading experience reminded me of reading Lancelot by Giles Kristian. Both Giles Kristian and Madeline Miller did the same thing with their craft. Through Patroclus’ view, we get to see Achilles’ vulnerability, and we also get to see Achilles’ aptitude for virtues that most of the time were concealed in many retellings. I thought knowing how the journey will end for these characters would diminish my experience, but the opposite occurred; the hindsight in the finality of their story actually elevated my reading experience extensively. For example, there were lines—I won’t mention them in my review—about Hector repeatedly spoken by Achilles that act as a dagger that inflicted a sharp cut to the heart every time it’s unsheathed. “There are no bargains between lion and men. I will kill you and eat you raw.” There’s an enchanting quality in Miller’s prose. For almost a decade, hundreds of thousands of readers/reviewers around the world have been charmed by her writing style, and now you can definitely count me among these entranced readers. What I found to be the most incredible aspect of this novel is how well-conveyed were the feelings of the characters; they popped out of the pages effectively. It is always crucial to learn what truly matters in life and to never lose sight of them; trust, pride, jealousy, and the seduction of glory tests Patroclus’ and Achilles’ relationship to its maximum limit. The pacing was great, and the last five chapters of this novel capture the everlasting brilliance of the horror and tragedy in this tale. The sense of grief, the meteoric fury, and the comfort that love provides amidst blood and death felt profoundly physical to me. “And perhaps it is the greater grief, after all, to be left on earth when another is gone.” The cover art of this book usually depicts the golden armor/helmet/lyre of Achilles, and there’s an underlying message behind these cover arts; it contains mandatory advice that you should prepare yourself before reading this book. Guard your heart and mind carefully; there’s a prophecy conjured that they won’t remain unscathed after you read the breathtaking lyrics written in The Song of Achilles. Every page was a bait to lure me away from reality, and I devour those bait willingly. I look forward to reading Circe very soon to witness more of Miller’s talent, and more importantly, to put her storytelling as an item to be locked in my memories. “I am made of memories.” Aren’t we all, Patroclus?You can order the book from: Book Depository (Free shipping)You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel NotionsSpecial thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Devin, Hamad, Joie, Mike, Miracle, Nicholas.
5609234174	‘I am made of memories.’Storytelling is a key form of cultural memory, dating back to early visual and oral traditions of passing on stories from generation to generation. Through retellings, stories are not only passed along and retained, but often reshaped and reexamined, adding a larger texture and nuance and growing the myths. The Song of Achilles, the debut novel from Madeline Miller, is another in a long tradition of retellings of the Greek myths and zooms in from the large, sweeping epic scale of the Trojan War tales into an intimate and largely interior look at the relationship between Patrocles and Achilles. It is a deeply moving portrait of a lifelong love between the two, traversing the years together from training in the wilderness with Chiron to the violent years in the siege of Troy that immortalized Achilles name even to this day. By reframing the tale through the eyes of an otherwise minor mortal in the vast battle—beautiful in his naïvety, frustrations and hope—Miller reminds us that every life contains a universe of loves and hopes, fears and griefs. Mostly adhering to the tale as you know it, Miller writes in an accessible and engaging prose that plucks each emotional string in your heart as Achilles’ song on the lute does to Patrocles, passing along the tale for a new generation.‘We were like gods at the dawning of the world, & our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.’Retellings fascinate me and I think are a really cool way to honor the traditions of storytelling. In his 1955 publication of The Greek Myths, historian Robert Graves was concerned the classics had gone so far out of popular consciousness that even ‘an educated man’ wasn’t expected to know the references. Yet today Greek mythology continues to exist in pop culture and while many were still writing myth retellings before Miller, the continued popularity of The Song of Achillesstill hitting bestseller lists 12 years after its publication in 2011—and her follow up, Circe has spurred a huge revival in myth retellings (from where I sit right now at the bookstore, there are at least 4 on the New In display from the past few months). Personally, I find this to be exciting as a continuation of oral retellings into printed retellings but people can have strong opinions on versions especially if they liked an older one. This puts Miller in a tricky spot, especially with a debut where there isn’t any goodwill built up in the reader yet. In his book Retelling Stories, Framing Culture, John Stephens says that there is ‘a tendency…to privilege similarity over difference,’ which is a dilemma constructing retellings because deviating from whichever version of a tale someone finds to be their subjective best is met with criticism (look at how upset people still are over Disney dropping the Star Wars Expanded Universe from canon). While Graves might be pleased to know the Greek classics references are even known by children thanks to films like Disney’s Hercules, Rick Riordan’s Percy Jackson series, or countless videogames, we also have to wonder if the strong deviations from the tales in his book would irk him the way Jack Zipes utterly despises any children's films of old fairy tales as diluting the story (I like to think of them as "versions" that can lead you to the originals, personally. Like gateway drugs for literature). If I have one criticism of Song of Achilles, it is perhaps that it didn’t change things enough as I really enjoy when authors use retellings as a catalyst for an idea beyond the retelling, such as discussing having an Atlas complex in our own lives as Jeanette Winterson does in Weight . I do feel there is likely a balance on intent, how much is changed, and for what reason, which is why retellings set modern day are given less scrutiny and with this book being as immersed in the idea of just telling the story from a personal perspective, see how it opens it up for more splitting hairs on details. But then again, the Greek myths are not corporate IP and even The Iliad is just an author's interpretation on a long line of oral telling. There is no objective canon, just versions and that is cool so just have fun with it. It’s a mythology of mythologies, do whatever you want and just do it well.I enjoy where Miller deviates and I think the intentions are well accomplished in many places. In Homer, we understand Patrocles to be a strong warrior, not quite the match of Achilles, but certainly more so than he is presented here. Which is where memory and retellings come in. Telling the story from his perspective allows us to see him how he saw himself and in supposed real-time, making the traditional view of him one that was formed because of his story being told long after his death drawing on assumptions from his shared tomb with Achilles. It is not only a retelling, but a shifting of perspectives. We see Odysseus as rather different even between her two books because Patrocles and Circe have different perspectives on him. While perhaps there is an argument to be made this book doesn’t have the same scholarly value as other versions or the source material, I think it resonated with me quite strongly and to me that’s what matters most. But I also don’t find much joy in disliking things and tend to try to open myself to enjoying them so I guess take what I say with a grain of salt.‘He is half of my soul, as the poets say. He will be dead soon, and his honor is all that will remain.’What I’m getting at is my fears of this being too similar and not holding up was instantly abated because I simply loved reading this. It validates its own reason for a retelling because it puts us inside the battle that feels huge around us and not for the purpose of glorifying the strongest of the people killing each other over some rich asshole deciding his wife leaving him was excuse enough for mass murder but to show how love is tested and tortured under such a conflict. Miller points out in an interview that, while ‘Homer tells us what his characters do, he doesn’t tell us much of why they do it,’ and I enjoy the way she dives into the psychology of the why. And, for Patroclus, that why is love. Which I suppose is the best why. Even when you are doing something ill-advised like throwing on some armor to uphold your lover's image and promptly finding yourself pants shittingly dead at the end of Hector’s blade. Because that scene hit me in all the feelings. But for real, have tissues on hand for the last bit of this one. ‘I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.’This book is endlessly quotable and the overall telling earns the individual lines, making it still fresh with poetry despite being in prose form. I think the love story was successful as it manages to seem subversive in the present without having to actually really be, and doesn’t fall victim to imposing modern moralizing onto historical events. Reading it today when books having queer content are being removed from shelves—or when it first was published in 2011 before the landmark Obergefell v. Hodges US Supreme Court ruling legalizing same-sex marriage—seems pointed but scholars have argued this sort of relationship, especially amongst nobility, would have not been a scandal and Achilles and Patrocles being lovers doesn’t really raise any eyebrows in the book. Many have previously asserted the pair as lovers, similar with Alexander the Great and Hephaestion, including a nod to it in Plato’s The Symposium (where Miller says she stole the idea). As Miller says:’The idea that Patroclus and Achilles were lovers is quite old…We even have a fragment from a lost tragedy of Aeschylus, where Achilles speaks of his and Patroclus’ “frequent kisses.” There is a lot of support for their relationship in the text of the Iliad itself, though Homer never makes it explicit. For me, the most compelling piece of evidence, aside from the depth of Achilles’ grief, is how he grieves: Achilles refuses to burn Patroclus’ body, insisting instead on keeping the corpse in his tent, where he constantly weeps and embraces it—despite the horrified reactions of those around him. That sense of physical devastation spoke deeply to me of a true and total intimacy between the two men.’The emotional intensity of this scene burns so brightly in the book you could read it on a moonless night. I do enjoy seeing their relationship tested and I think Miller does an interesting job portraying the different paths they take during the conflict with Patroclus opting to be a medic instead of a warrior while Achilles seems misguided using violence as a path to fame. Some of the bits, such as Achilles freeing Briseis, are framed in a way that feel a bit too much like “okay but looks he’s not all bad” though I was fine with having Achilles being morally gray on the darker shade of the spectrum because Patroclus still loving him in spite of his rage and disgust at him was beautiful enough to nod need to sugar coat anything. ‘The never-ending ache of love and sorrow. Perhaps in some other life I could have refused, could have torn my hair and screamed, and made him face his choice alone. But not in this one. He would sail to Troy and I would follow, even into death.’The lesson from Chiron is well baked into the story, that ‘no man is worth more than another, wherever he is from,’ and one can certainly interpret Song of Achilles as an thematically anti-war without being overly heavy handed. Odysseus reminds Patroclus ‘He’s going to Troy to kill men, not rescue them…’ and we know a fall is coming and that the promise of glory on a battlefield is merely manipulation to get young men to lay down their lives for the glory of some king. In The Odyssey, Odysseus speaks with the ghost of Achilles who laments having chosen the quick route to fame and quick route to death than the long, uneventful life, but here I think Miller elegantly constructs a portrait of a young boy who has been so talked up by his fate and by his mother, the sea nymph Thetis (unpopular opinion but I loved Thetis in this, I loved how terrifying Miller made her and her portrayal as symbolic of the cruelty of the gods just stuck the landing for me), that he had the optimistic hubris to think he could have it all. ‘They never let you be famous AND happy,’ Achilles says to Patroclus, insisting ‘I'm going to be the first…because you’re the reason.’ Shit, I got chills just retyping that scene, its this beautiful naivete that you hold in your memory even when he is at his worst and weep for the downfall of the boy Patroclus once knew. And loved. And will love still. ‘I will never leave him,’ he says. That no amount of violence, shame or even the wrath of Agamemnon can bring Achilles down but the loss of his companion reduces him to tears and sets forth the fateful end is telling of the importance of their love to him as well.“There is no law that gods must be fair, Achilles,” Chiron said. “And perhaps it is the greater grief, after all, to be left on earth when another is gone. Do you think?”I could ramble about this book for a long time because it just really moved me and was a joy to read from start to finish. It has the feel of an epic without being epic in length, and Miller blends the romance with the action and political playmaking like an expert bartender ready to get you drunk on her art.The victors write the histories—as the saying goes—and Patroclus is pleading to push aside the ideas of glory in battle to focus on emotional connection as the true lasting glory. This is a very intimate and gorgeous novel that harnesses the power of retellings to create a rather lovely tale to pass along for the next generation and once again have us remember the names of Achilles and Patroclus.3.75/5‘The sorrow was so large it threatened to tear through my skin. When he died, all things swift and beautiful and bright would be buried with him.’
2674828192	I hated pretty much everything about this. The only reason I didn't dnf was because I wanted to watch them die suffering and begging for death. The main characters, that is.I was likeWhere is Red Priestess Melisandre when I need her most?Come my Lady and burn them all!!™ through the whole book.They are probably the most awful characters I have ever read about. Just imagine a face with pure disgust, multiply it seven times and that was me for like 6 hours straight.I don't want to answer every question about why, so here are the updates I made while I was reading it:1, 39% This is the most disgusting thing I read in 2020. Congratulation. It would be an instant dnf if I wasn't buddy reading the book. (Patroclus had sex with the woman who is pregnant with Achilles' child just because why not. I almost puked.)2, 60% Am I supposed to be amazed by them? That they were so kind and generous to save that girl from rape?Guess what! That girl only needed to be saved because they went there and killed everyone but her.Fuck, I hate this book so much. I was told this is a sad story, but I really don't care if the main characters die. I hate them both.3, 63% I could not even see the ugliness of the deaths anymore, the brains, the shattered bones that later I would wash from my skin and hair. All I saw was his beauty, his singing limbs, the quick flickering of his feet.4, 67% “I left one son alive,” he said. “The eighth son. So that their line would not die.”How fucking generous of you. 👏👏 I bet that boy will be grateful. -.-5, 72% Listen to me well, Patroclus. Briseis doesn't love you in any shape or form. She has Stockholm syndrome.6, 80% Just so y'all know: the only reason I'm still reading this is because I want to see them die at the end with a lot of suffering.
816902054	the vibe of "i feel like i could eat the world raw" vs. "i will kill u & eat u raw"but actually, the only thing that was eaten raw was my heartrep: achillean mc & li
268343520	** spoiler alert ** I feel a bit silly doing this, but I have put a spoiler alert on this review, just in case there are folks out there who might not be versed in the classics.In a nutshell, Boy meet demi-god. Boy gets demi-god. Boy loses demi-god. Wait, demi-god loses boy, goes a bit funny in the head and behaves badly. Greece loses demi-god, the happy couple wind up sharing an afterlife. Madeline Miller - image from her siteYou might want to dust off your Iliad, as this is a retelling of the story of Achilles, you know, the greatest warrior of his time, from that slightly older work. It is impressive, when looking up details from Miller’s novel, how directly her version corresponds to that of Homer. It was very important to me to stay faithful to the events of Homer’s narrative. The central inspiration behind the book is the terrible moment in the Iliad when Achilles hears about Patroclus’ death. His reaction is shocking in its intensity. The great half-god warrior—who carelessly defies rules, and condemns a whole army to death—comes completely unglued, desperate with grief and rage. I wanted to understand what it was about Patroclus and their relationship that could create that kind of crisis. Although Homer tells us what his characters do, he doesn’t tell us much of why they do it. Who was Achilles? And why did he love Patroclus so much? Patroclus is a twelve-year-old prince down on his luck. Born of a damaged mother and possessed of none of the obvious gifts that make fathers proud, he defends himself against a bully. The bully slips, falls, coshes his deserving skull on a rock and the planet is one bully lighter. Oops, sorry. But since the bully was a royal, Pops exiles Patroclus to the island of Phthia. (Go ahead, try to say it out loud, five times fast, or at all. You know you want to. Sounds like Parseltongue to me.) Luckily for him, the island’s king, Peleus, is kind and receptive. In fact he seems to have made a business of re-treading unwanted, or in-need-of-training blue-bloods, running a sort of island of lost royalty, a military training camp for boys. He is also father to the luminous Achilles. The questionably-heeled one (BTW, the heel never enters the story here. As Miller explains on her website, it was added to the myth of Achilles way later, by the Romans) is presented in such glowing terms that we are uncertain if the author is elevating him to the level of Homeric perfection, or we are seeing the externalization of the smitten Patroclus’ achy smitten-ness. In any case, Achilles turns out to be a pretty decent sort, and takes Patroclus under his wing, even inviting him to share his room. In time it gets steamy. Boys have, well, needs, and their inclinations, it turns out, are in synch. Thankfully the soft-core element of this story cools down enough to give us a look at the times, the idiocy of the Trojan War, and the ridiculousness of leadership, which does not seem to have changed all that much over the millennia. While some physical intimacy is noted, the author very much focuses on the affection between the two as a moving force. What one gets here is a touch and feel (go ahead and snicker) of what life might have been like at the time of the Trojan War. And it sounds like they could have used a few of the more contemporary Trojans, what with unintended pregnancies and all. Patroclus is our eyes and ears, but he is not merely a plot device. He is a fleshed-out character with significant conflicts to resolve, and growth to endure. Miller says, In writing this novel, I thought a lot about personal responsibility. Patroclus is not an epic person, the way Achilles is. He’s an “ordinary” man. But he has more power than he thinks, and the moments where he reaches out to others and offers what he sees as his very modest assistance have huge positive ramifications. Most of us aren’t Achilles—but we can still be Patroclus. What does it mean to try to be an ethical person in a violent world?You will have to suspend your disbelief a bit, as magical things do happen. Just as Homer included magical elements in his epic, so Miller follows. Gods do indeed engage themselves in human affairs. Achilles is the product of a human father and a fishy-dearest sea nymph of a mother. The lads are trained by a centaur, Chiron, who is a pretty cool character, (fans of Harry Potter will recognize in Chiron the source for Hogwarts’ own Firenze, also a teacher of medicine, and overall good guy) and of course the gods can’t help but interfere with the doings of men, like early-version Koch Brothers with training in the Dark Arts. Miller takes the odd liberty here and there. Patroclus, for example, was older than Achilles in the Iliad. They are the same age here. But The Song of Achilles is a novel. Miller gets her important facts right. Of course, the facts have to do with re-creating the story told by the great Greek poet, not, you know, actual facts. Unless of course you are one of those who believes that Achilles’ mother, Thetis, really was a sea nymph, or that the actual Greek gods personally interfered with the goings on down below. There are plenty of people who believe stranger things. In fact, the clearly homosexual relationship between Achilles and Patroclus is sure to raise the hackles of folks who hold beliefs of a more contemporary theistic bent. Expect to see calls for this book to be banned in the usual places. But really, it’s the 21st century. Get over it. If it was good enough for the Iliad…Miller is a classics scholar and teacher and knows her stuff. What she has done here is take the eternal tale and re-tell it in a manner that is easy to read. In fact it is so easy to read that it felt like a YA title to me. Maybe too easy? She does teach high-schoolers, so I expect that was her target demographic, but it still seemed a bit young to me. While I have no philosophical issue with the same-sex element of the tale, I found the youthful pining and sex scenes mushy and maybe gag-worthy, but once the pairing is secured, the story is free to flow back to Homer’s tale. It does so smoothly and well.One benefit of this book is that it offers young readers an entrée to one of the great works of literature in a more accessible form. I expect that Miller will eventually get around to producing another modern interpretation from the classics. In the meantime, if you are a student, seek this lady out and take her classes. She seems to me like the sort of teacher we all dreamed of having and rarely got, in love with her material and able to communicate it well. Review first posted – February 3, 2012Publication dates (USA)----------March 6, 2012 - hardcover ----------August 28, 2012 - trade paperback =============================EXTRA STUFFDefinitely check out Miller’s web site, one of the better author sites I have seen. She is on FB and Twitter too. My review of Miller's 2018 novel, CirceMy review of Natalie Hynes' A Thousand Ships - a view from the perspective of the female characters of The Iliad and The OdysseyMay 30, 2012 - The Song of Achilles wins the 2012 Orange Award August 27, 2021 - The Guardian - Madeline Miller on The Song of Achilles: ‘It helped people come out to their parents’ - a wonderful piece on how she came to write Song of Achilles
1691547290	“Why would I kill Hector? What has Hector ever done to me?” Fun Fact of the Day: I was in a Latin class my freshman year where the teacher mentioned how gay Achilles was every single sentence. She could not bring up these two without mentioning that they were believed to be in a romantic relationship. That's honestly at least half the reason I picked this book up, so thanks, Magistra Vasquez, for being so extra. Can't wait to have you again next year for AP Latin. Can probably wait for the rest of my life before I translate the entire Aeneid, but that's okay. The Song of Achilles is a romantic retelling of the Illiad. It's written with gorgeous prose, but that's not what really stands out about this novel. Emotion drips from the pages, making it impossible not to at least tear up through the book.For the first 150 pages, this book is a simple romance. While these two main characters are well-built and interesting, I didn't feel much emotion. That all changed over time. As the war begins, Patroclus slowly begins to realize and acknowledge Achilles' faults, leading to a steady character change for him. Both these characters developed so much and were so flawed, yet so interesting. The mythology of this is fairly accurate and interesting– sure, some of the plot points around Briseus were far-fetched, but nothing here is disproved by the mythological canon. That made me really happy, although I know many won't really care. For those of you who need reference on key players:✔Agamemnon, an asshole, abandoning his wife Clytemnestra✔Menelaus, another asshole, missing his wife Helen✔Odysseus, a mixed man, missing his wife Penelope✔Helen, a daughter of Leda and Zeus but raised by Tyndareus, and deeply in loveHighly recommended just for sheer emotion and character development.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
1441793068	I thought the writing was great and I liked Patroclus as a character, but I was honestly pretty bored throughout the entire thing and thought Achilles was an asshat sooooooo
3782145808	i don’t even know where to begin. if i’m not loved the way Patroclus loved Achilles. i don’t want that shit. this book was so lovely to slowly enjoy.(taking off 1 star because it was hella dragged out; the plot didn’t start to move until the last 30% of the book) the writing was the best part of this book. a journey of life, love, and grief was this entire book. i thought i’d cry way more than i did. it was the very last line that began the water works. the last line and the best line in the entire book!
4496742146	Patroclus has my whole heart
519746096	We despise spoilers. We avoid them at all costs, cover them with spoiler tags, and castigate those who share them. But a great book is one that we can appreciate even when we already know the ending. That's how it was with The Song of Achilles: I knew the fates of the characters beforehand, but no matter how much I tried to brace myself, the last few chapters still broke my heart in the best possible way.What had Deidameia thought would happen, I wondered, when she had her women dance for me? Had she really thought I would not know him? I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.Madeline Miller retells the Trojan War through Patroclus's point of view. The book begins with his childhood, and it captures almost all of his life. Miller takes us from his exile from his own land to when he meets Achilles, to their gradual and growing friendship, to when they embark on the war together. She incorporates various historical qualities and characters such as the battle strategies of the time period and Thetis's difficult relationship with her own son. The Song of Achilles will please those searching for a retelling of the Iliad as well as those who want a fresh take on Patroclus and Achille's relationship.Can we all take a collective moment to appreciate the beautiful bond between Patroclus and Achilles? Their relationship developed in the most sincere, realistic, and wonderful way. Miller did not bypass the societal standards of the Trojan War period, rather, she used them to strengthen an already solid friendship. The best and worst part was that I knew how it was going to end - heck, anyone who has learned about the Trojan War or Achilles knows - but my prior knowledge could not stop the waterfall of tears that flooded my face upon the book's conclusion. Patroclus's kind heart, Achille's gumption and glory, and the prophecy that hung over them captured me and held my heart captive. Instead of releasing my emotions at the end, Miller tore them apart, and I enjoyed every second of it.The never-ending ache of love and sorrow. Perhaps in some other life I could have refused, could have torn my hair and screamed, and made him face his choice alone. But not in this one. He would sail to Troy and I would follow, even into death. "Yes," I whispered. "Yes."Miller's writing transported me. It took her ten years to write this and the effort she put into her research shows; the development of Patroclus and Achilles and all of the different events in the story exemplifies her passion for classics. Achilles, Patroclus, and even side characters like Thetis and Briseis received human qualities that allowed them to remain true to their portrayals in history while making them easier to relate to at the same time. Achilles and Patroclus's relationship won me over and made me cry, but this book succeeds in several other areas as well, like its description of settings and battles.Highly recommended for history/classic buffs or anyone searching for a story with a romance that will leave you breathless. It left me sobbing and gasping for breath at 8 AM in the main lobby of my college dorm, and I am confident it will evoke a similar reaction in other readers who come across it.*review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice
2241354283	“In the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood, like a hundred golden urns pouring out the sun.” I read The Song of Achilles many years ago, before I got into book reviewing, but it always bothered me that I didn’t have a proper review for this beautiful book. I was a little apprehensive about rereading it, because I wasn’t sure if it would hold up and impact me the way it did many years ago. But, friends, this story is still everything.I feel like this is still a hard review to write, because I don’t want to spoil anyone, but I feel like everyone knows how this tragic tale ends. But friends, the ending of this story literally broke me and my heart into a million pieces all over again. But if for some reason you do not know the story of Achilles, please stop reading this review, pick up this book immediately, and have your life changed forever. In high school I became really obsessed with Greek mythology. I couldn’t get enough of the adventures in The Iliad and The Odyssey. And the Trojan War is almost a decade worth of adventures that I fell completely in love with. And I always had a special soft spot for Achilles, son of a god and a king, being convinced to join the Greek army by the Greek commander, Odysseus, to become the greatest warrior in the world. But so much happens before that deadly battle between Hector and Achilles outside the gates of Troy. And The Song of Achilles is Madeline Miller’s love letter to Achilles complete story, and it is an actual masterpiece that is the best reimagining I’ve ever read in my entire life. This is also a story about Patroclus, also a son of king, who was exiled from his kingdom when he was only ten-year-old. But when he is sent away, he is sent to Achilles’ kingdom, where Achilles claims him as his companion, and they become best friends. And eventually, they become more than friends. “We reached for each other, and I thought of how many nights I had lain awake loving him in silence.” Patroclus is totally bi or pan, and obviously Achilles is for sure queer, but I am not actually sure if he is only gay or where he falls in LGBTQIAP+ because I feel like he was questioning gender and gender-roles during this reread, too. But regardless, this is such a beautiful m/m romance that will leave me swooning and crying forever. This is a story about the cruelty of men and war and how that impacts so many others. This is a story about how sometimes we can become what is not expected of us, but sometimes the expectations are impossible to hide from. This is a story about love, and friendship, and honor, and what it means to sacrifice everything for those very things. This is a story about how those things never end; not even in death. “I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.” Overall, if you want a reimaging that will completely break your heart, but also heal your very soul, this is it. Madeline Miller has created something so magnificent that it truly transcends words. This is one of the most beautifully told and crafted stories I’ve ever read in my entire life. I recommend the book with the sum of who I am.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | TwitchContent and trigger warnings for murder, death, slavery, abduction, abandonment, torture, mention of rape, blood depictions, human sacrificing, physical violence, human trafficking, graphic mention of a plague, self-harm, child abuse, and war themes.
2479170370	
5805380382	”I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.” im seriously so heartbroken by this book. my heart is aching for all my beloved characters. patroclus briseis achilles pure pain pain pain.the writing is so incredibly beautiful. it was so immersive and i instantly fell in love with the storytelling. each part of the book was so significant, and it all ties together wonderfully at the end. the chapters of them in pelion with chiron will forever be my favourites. such comfort in those words and the love between them. seeing them fall in love and being so soft and sweet made me go weak. the way patroclus talks about achilles sighsighsigh. his love for achilles knows no bounds. he loves him so unconditionally.the progression towards the end of the story was so well done. all the little signs, the prophesies, the foreshadowing. there was just this daunting feeling as you’re reading the book. then the ending leaves you absolutely shattered. i can’t stop thinking about them and crying. my heart feels so heavy. straight pain and heartache. ”He is half of my soul, as the poets say.”
3923960406	Every time I now think about this book, I get even sadderThis was such a beautifully written book. The atmosphere was so captivating and it really draws you in. Going into this, I had never read The Iliad and my only knowledge of these characters came from the movie Troy. However, upon finishing this book I have some interest in reading The Iliad and doing some more research on Greek mythology. I really enjoyed that we got to see Patroclus and Achilles’ relationship develop from such a young age, up until the end of the book where I believe they’re now late 20’s. Seeing them bond and watching that relationship flourish was so beautiful to read and I really enjoyed. The action scenes, near the later half of the book, were also really well written and I was truly immersed in the book during those moments. The audiobook for this book is one I would highly recommend as I really loved the narrator. Also this book did make me cry at the end (some of you may have wanted to know that!)Only reason it wasn’t a full 5 star book for me is due to parts at the beginning I found to be a little bit slow and also I wish we had some more romantic moments. I also did a reading vlog on this book on my YouTube Channel, where I discussed this book further and reacted to the ending on camera. If you’d like to see that video, you can check it out here: https://youtu.be/BgIXlPV3mvw
1472927781	It's pretty hard to mess up The Iliad, and Madeline Miller's magical narration and unique perspective definitely don't. She manages to tell the tale from angles never before seen and put a fresh spin on one of the best known stories of all time. On top of being mostly accurate, what Madeline Miller does especially well is make this story accessible to anyone. A lot of the sybolisms that make The Iliad great are easy to miss, but in this version, that's not the case. And the way she structures sentences, and the words she chooses, the way she has her characters speak--everything about it has this transportive property to it, that takes you back 3000 years to classical Greece.But it's not without the flaws of a 3000 year-old story. Like the voyage from Mycenae to Anatolia, the start is rough but well worth it for the epic ending. The way Madeline Miller closes this tale is ESPECIALLY brilliant. It makes it clear why The Iliad might be best told from the eyes of Achilles and Patroclus. There's a relationship between these two characters, particularly Achilles' pride and how Patroclus handles it, that is so ingrained in this epic, it seems strange that the story hasn't been told from this perspective before.The problem, though, with this version is that, from the way Patroclus is portrayed, it's hard to see what draws Achilles to him until the end. He's seemingly just an uncoordinated hot messy accidental murderer, until out of left field he becomes the forgotten hero of the Trojan War, the true Aristos Achaion. There's not much growth for Patroclus: where one second he is a buffoon, the next he simply is not. Until that switch, for about 95% of the story, the relationship between Patroclus and Achilles that holds this tale together seems wildly unrealistic--the worst kind of InstaLove, the kind without reason.On top of that, the MOST important part of the story--the battle between Achilles and Hector--falls short. Since the perspective comes from Achilles/Patroclus, it leaves out some majorly important characters: Helen and Hector and Priam and Paris. To me, that side of the story is necessary for The Iliad to have all its deserved glory.All that said, experiencing the story from this angle was truly unique and awesome, and I'm so glad that I did.
4126313489	“He is half of my soul, as the poets say.”I loved this book so much! This is a beautiful and heartbreaking story about friendship, love, grief, loss, war and fame. Patroclus is a young prince who is exiled from his home because of an act of violence. Achilles is the son of King Peleus and the sea goddess Thetis. An inseparable bond forms between them that starts as a friendship and becomes love. Achilles and Patroclus are trained by the centaur Chiron where they learn about war and medicine. Achilles decides to join the heroes of Greece after learning that Helen of Sparta was kidnapped. Patroclus joins Achilles and their love will be tested and a sacrifice will be made.I fell in love with Achilles and Patroclus and the beautiful bond between them. Achilles is strong, brave, handsome, loyal and so sweet to Patroclus. Patroclus is brave, kind, helpful, and loyal. The writing and storytelling in this book was amazing! I felt immersed in the story from the beginning till the end, I felt like I was next to Achilles and Patroclus as they fell in love. I loved that we learned about the Trojan War from Patroclus' perspective, he is such a likable and relatable character. The character development was marvelous, I loved seeing a different side of Achilles and Patroclus. The ending was so heartbreaking and beautiful, it completely broke me. This book will stay with me in my heart for a long time.
5542167957	˚*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚✨4.5 stars ✨*•̩̩͙✩•̩̩͙*˚ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ “we were like gods at the dawning of the world, and our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.” i finally completed the book that has been on my physical tbr longer than any other. i put this off for years and truly never would’ve picked it up if it weren’t a blind pick from my tbr jar. 🤭i definitely pronounced most of the names in my head incorrectly and my understanding of greek mythology remains subpar… yet, this was nothing less than incredible despite my shortcomings as a reader.ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ ”he is half of my soul, as the poets say.” you know it’s a great book when you know what is going to happen and it still hurts. 🥺the prose was so lovely, everything was surprisingly easy to follow, and i can see why this book is so beloved. i went into this book knowing it would be more of a tragedy than a romance (the distinction was important for my reading experience) and wow, did it deliver. ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ “my mind is filled with cataclysm and apocalypse: i wish for earthquakes, eruptions, flood. only that seems large enough to hold all of my rage and grief.” ❤️‍🩹✨
4077921668	Oh my god! What a well written masterpiece.Why didn't I pick it up earlier? Because I knew what was going to happen and I wasn't sure if I was going to like it but I was sooo wrong!“He is half of my soul, as the poets say.”The song of Achilles is a retelling of the story of Achilles and Patroclus in Homer's Illiad.It beautifully describes the journey of a young prince who was exiled for a crime he had no control over to a man who would do anything for the people he loved.Patroclus and Achilles met when they were very young.The journey of their friendship which lead to something else in the future is one of the main focus of this book.Patroclus and Achilles were total opposites.Patroclus was soft-hearted and had nightmares when he saw people die.Achilles on the other hand gained pleasure by killing his enemies.But they were the most perfect match to ever exist.Things that I loved about this story-Everything.“I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.”The way love is described in this book would either fill everyone's heart with joy or their eyes with tears.Madeline Miller beautifully described how love could bring peace to people and how easily it can destroy them.Like how his love for Breisis made Patroclus betray Achilles, how his love for Achilles made Patroclus to go fight in a war so that Achillies's men didn't hate him.Like how his love for Patroclus made Achilles kill someone who's death was destined to be the destruction of himself.“And perhaps it is the greater grief, after all, to be left on earth when another is gone.” If you haven't read this book yet then please go and read it.I'm begging you.
1285662340	Mi reacción al terminar el libro:
3984806032	why did it take me this long to find out about a gay greek mythology book? seriously I'm disappointed in myself. I'm better than this
4167765458	MY HEART😭💔 if you have not read this book yet, please do. It is so beautiful and so heartbreaking
5706248693	Quintessential!!!What a great achievement!!! Congratulations to Madeline Miller!!!I was savouring every word, it was beautifully written.Since I was a kid, mythology was aways my favorite subject, just love it, I was introduced to greek mythology first, so I have some knowledge about it.This story was told many times by a lot of writers, I was so pleased with her version, absolutely superb! Even though we already know the story and how it's gonna end, I went through all the emotions , I was so hungry for more, I didn't want to stop reading but also I wanted to taste every moment.(view spoiler)[I was in love with Achilles and Patroclus love story, since the early age, until the end, I felt happiness, anger, sadness, turned on and also jealous, like I was one of them, I enjoyed that the story happened by Patroclus perspective, it was so good, I was at the edge of my seat in a lot of moments, and the finale, wishing I could change the fate, knowing how it'll finish and yet unexpected, so well written, heartbreaking, and then so beautiful! (hide spoiler)]It felt like when I watched Titanic at the cinema, we know that the ship is going to sink, and yet we fall in love and all turned into a surprise!It was a delight, I'm gonna read this book again and again!!!This book will be in my Favourite Shelf and 6 Stars Shelf! Amazing!!!I loved this book so much that I've got on Audible as well, Frazer Douglas gave a splendid performance, such a beautiful voice, so believable, he was on point in every moment, I was engaged! Praises for him, well done!!!6🌟
4001817344	Hope Madeline Miller is ready to pay for my very exspensive therapy.
2267804986	“ACHILLES, it reads. And beside it, PATROCLUS” “IN THE DARKNESS, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun” This book was just utterly heartbreaking and breathtakingly beautiful. I’m in love with every aspect of it.The end, the end broke me💔! In the best and worst way possible.BR with Khadidja (sorry, I just couldn't wait, had to finish this💗).
4885245030	“He is half of my soul, as the poets say.”THE. ENDING. CHAPTERS. BROKE. MY. HEART.No, those chapters literally ripped out my heart, stepped on it, and crushed it into a million pieces. They were never supposed to leave Pelion. Never.“I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.”This book was so beautifully written. But I wasn’t invested in the plot, because all I cared about was Achilles and Patroclus—they were everything. Their love was tragic and heartbreaking, but above all, it was breathtakingly beautiful.“Name one hero who was happy.”“You can’t.” He was sitting up now, leaning forward.“I can’t.”“I know. They never let you be famous AND happy.” He lifted an eyebrow. “I’ll tell you a secret.”“Tell me.” I loved it when he was like this.“I’m going to be the first.” He took my palm and held it to his. “Swear it.”“Why me?”“Because you’re the reason. Swear it.”“I swear it,” I said, lost in the high color of his cheeks, the flame in his eyes.“I swear it,” he echoed.What about this promise they made to each other?Achilles and Patroclus were supposed to live their life filled with love and happiness! But at least I know they are now happy and together, so that’s enough for me.“A C H I L L E S, it reads. And beside it, P A T R O C L U S.”“In the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun.”It’s been a year since I read this book, and I’m still not over them and the ending.To my best friend, who forced me to read this book. I hope both sides of your pillow are hot.
2980389266	This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷 “Chiron had said once that nations were the most foolish of mortal inventions. “No man is worth more than another, wherever he is from.” 🌟 I have heard a lot of great things about Madeline and this book and I did not read it for the longest time. When she released her second book, I jumped immediately into it and I liked her writing but I was a bit bored and the plot could not capture my full attention then. I decided to give this book a chance and I am glad I did because I understand the hype! and for all I know, I am part of the hype now!!🌟 I am a sucker when it comes to Greek mythology and was always fascinated by it from movies to games and novels! And who better than a Greek teacher to write a book about the subject?! (Madeline students, you’re so lucky!).🌟 The writing was as good as I wanted it to be, the book follows the life of Achilles and Patroclus from being young boys to war leaders! I am a fan of this setting in books when it is done right because rather than telling me about the characters background, I get to live it trough their eyes and get much more. Madeline prose is great, it has this magical touch that makes it easy to read but it is unique at the same time! “We were like gods at the dawning of the world, & our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.” 🌟 The characters are the strongest point in the book, I could feel them, they were so fleshed out and humane! I cared about them, I rooted for them and their love was very graceful and not erotic, just suitable for demi-gods!! There is some major character development for both characters and I do love both although I am more of team Achilles!🌟 Another thing that captured my attention was Thetis love for her son and the things she was doing to protect him and her sacrifices through his journey. She may not appear as a good Goddess but I loved how her maternal instinct to protect her child was a major thing the whole book!🌟 Plot wise, it was entertaining from beginning to end. The second half was more interesting because of the war but it wouldn’t have been so without the first half! My favorite trope is probably prophecies and there were some prophecies here -as there should be in any Greek mythology- and that means bonus points for the book! “I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.” 🌟 Now I kind of knew how this ends but that did not change my experience reading the book, I did not cry as many other readers did but it certainly gave me many feelings! 🌟 Summary: this book gave me all I asked for and more with good writing, characters and plot! I will remember these characters for a long time for sure! I recommend strongly for fans of Greek mythology!
3390024377	5/5 In the darkness, two shadows reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun. Okay guys I need everyone to read this book ASAP. It’s so so sooo good. It’s fluffy, tragic, and mythology based. What more could you need?In truth, I expected to love this book but not this much. It’s just so beautiful. Madeline Miller’s writing is so lyrical and I need her next novel right now. She makes such heart-wrenching quotes so easily, it’s amazing. He is half of my soul, as the poets say. Our main character is Patroclus. He’s such a cinnamon roll and so sweet and soft and ahhh-He is truly one of the sweetest MC’s ever. His development over this book, becoming someone strong and independent, was so masterfully and well done. Achilles is our other main character and I love him too. His character development over the course of this book is amazing. It’s so satisfying to see him reach his full potential. I loved him very much. I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world. The romance. Wow. Hands down one of the best romances I have ever read. Ever. The best friends to lovers (superior trope guys) excellency was so on point. The pining and development over decades. The happiness they found in each other. I really don’t think the romance could have been done any better. It was fluffy, sweet, and just so beautiful. “Perhaps it is the greatest grief, after all, to be left on earth when another is gone.” You can hear me quietly sobbing. The plot is so so sooooo good. As with anything based off of Greek Mythology, you have a large and crazy cast of characters. I loved the development in some of them and the little connections to other myths.The plot isn’t the fastest, but as this is a re-telling of a centuries old story that in itself takes place over twenty something years, I think anyone can understand the slower pacing. And it’s better to stay in the happy times, isn’t it? The war scenes were super good. I seriously enjoyed them so much. “Name one hero who was happy.” The ending. My god. The last three chapters had me sobbing for an hour straight. I am not lying. I knew it would happen, because I have read all the popular Greek myths and stories. That certainly didn’t make it any less hard hitting. The grief and pain Madeleine Miller was able to create with her words are nothing short of remarkable. She made the grief and pain of this ending raw and real. I loved the emotions in it so much.In conclusion, I adored this book and everyone needs to pick it up ASAP. “I am made of memories.”
3623446066	Pick up this book not because of the hype surrounding it but for the ease with which you will read it till the end. And yes, you do not need to know things in depth about the background mythological story and every character mentioned to enjoy the book.Glad that I read the book. My issue is things are little too young adult for me reading this book now.Well, I am a bit underwhelmed reading the book this time. Yes, the actual hype overexpectations did it. Am I really disappointed? Yes and no.It's okay. (No, it's not okay.... You know how long I have been waiting to reread this book and go crazy about it?)I wanted more of the characters. I wanted more depth to the plot as well. While most, almost all the adult side characters is to growl and grit without making much of an impression, the two (should I add the almost main character too?!) main characters seemed like they needed to be brought upto the surface level to know them better while the writing is trying to pull them down to make the characters drown in between all the events that were happening. What I like the most reading this book is the writing, even though I have all these complaints listed beforehand. The forbidden romance works but it's almost toxic and really get to annoy you once in a while while reading about it.I don't want to spoil things. So not bringing up the important side characters and what role they play. But it hurts....(Am I disappointed?Am I???!!!!!!Seriously.I need to get all the available editions possible and read them all until I'm okay 😭).Why is this review so complicated???!.
2806905002	The gods are a fickle lot, and we foolish mortals who dare to fall in love with them - and their offspring - are surely doomed. Such is the fate of Achilles and his loyal comrade, Patroclus. The Song of Achilles is a beautiful, highly emotional retelling of the Greek myths regarding Achilles’ legendary military exploits.Young Patroclus, who has been disowned and exiled by his father for accidentally killing a nobleman’s son, is bewitched by Achilles, the son of the sea nymph, Thetis, and a mortal, King Peleus. Thetis is the epitome of the mother-in-law from hell as she plots to make her son, Achilles, the most powerful and famous warrior of all time – as was foretold by a prophecy at his birth. Thetis does not approve of her son’s homosexual relationship with Patroclus and does everything she can to destroy their love. She almost succeeds a few times - and at one point devises a diabolical scheme that will eventually backfire on her (Phyrrus puts Genghis Khan to shame!)Achilles, like his indulgent father, comes across as being very laid back: he often caves in to pressure from his demanding mother and always to poor Patroclus’ detriment. Well, I can’t go into any more details, for fear of major spoilers. Since I had studied Greek mythology, I already knew the fates of these star-crossed lovers (and the speculation regarding their homosexual relationship) before I even started reading this book, but I was really quite pleased by the twist at the end. Redemption with a capital R, for sure! (Keep a box of facial tissues handy. I’m still sniffling.) Highly recommended!. . . . . . .
3268787799	i’m so sorry heathur & karli 😬
5852108970	It’s not often I read a book like this, and let me tell you it was a lovely diversion from the typical psychological thrillers I enjoy. The plot was driven by beautiful prose, and the quality of the writing never wavered. Although I steer clear of war descriptions usually, here I didn’t mind because I needed to read more about our heroes and their love story. It was also a great way to get to know more about Greek mythology, so I even feel a bit more educated after reading it.
2892293933	I LOVED THIS BOOK! Heading their story and the trust they had in each other is something I’ll never forget. They were truly inevitable. The plot itself is flawless, easily going from childhood to the end. The friendship was beautiful, and when more cams: that was better. The tragedy was heart wrenching, and the last chapter of the book was hard to read, but I’m so happy with the way it ended. I like that Miller didn’t stick entirely to the story we’ve come to know about Achilles, the golden boy dipped in the river all save for his Achilles’ tendon? Eventually becoming his downfall? Forget him: learn the love the one she gave us instead.
1407509008	I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory.so wow. I've heard for years that this book is sad but so, so powerful, which I understand. I think it was a leeeeeettle overhyped for me, but it was still a magnificent read. This story had such a great aesthetic. Set in ancient Greece but told through the lens of a quiet, conflicted main character. I thought it was beautiful. The writing, the way that Achilles is described, the first half of this book developing the characters was just absolutely gorgeous. Then I began to have a lot of issues with it. Mainly, the whole middle section about the developing Trojan war was boring. Nothing was happening, there were too many characters with unpronouncable names, and Achilles turned into sort of a pompous ass. One of the main downfalls of this story is that it focuses so much on Achilles' honor, and that was so annoying to me. This book really emphasizes the flaws in characters, which I assume is why this was discussed so much, but it just irritated me that I was expecting a love story and there was actually a lot of underlying conflict between Patroclus and Achilles. This is more of a war story and the development of individual characters than it is about a love story. That being said, I felt like the romance was a little bit on the dry side. I adored the two together, but at some points, the story just felt so drained of any emotion and it was like Miller was just slugging through a textbook saying "this happened then this happened then this happened." There were so many moments that I felt we could have taken a step back and added some more impactful imagery and dialogue to make a short scene more meaningful to the reader, but it ended up feeling so stretched thin because this book takes place over 12+ years. Regardless, I cried throughout the last 50 pages of this book. It delivered the punchy ending I was anticipating, and it SLIGHTLY appeased the hatred I have for Achilles' mother. slightly. she's still a raging bitch but like...... a chill raging bitch. (also just kill me so i never have to read that last paragraph ever again my chest hurts)
4427183157	every time it causes me pain, and i love the pain nevertheless
1953640821	....well, I didn’t cry. “I am made of memories.” I am so sorry T_T I feel like I failed the greek population. I tried so much to care for the plot that I ended up finishing it. (Please don't shoot arrows or throw spears at me)Why this book isn’t a 2.0 star or less:- Chiron- Patroclus when he’s doing more than just be there- the greek mythology- that ending. (I really wished I loved the rest of the book as much as I did the ending)- the gayness (they are so whipped for each other lol)— overall thoughts: 2.5 —⇢ content warnings// (view spoiler)[ Abduction, Abandonment, Blood depictions, Child abuse, Death, Human sacrificing, Human trafficking, Murder, Physical violence, Plague (mentioned, graphic), Rape (mentioned), Self-harm, Slavery, Torture, War (hide spoiler)]In case you didn’t know, this book is a retelling and inspired by The Illiad and The Odyssey, and focuses on the relationship between Patroclus and Achilles.The main reason that this wasn’t a fave book was for the reason that Achilles and Patroclus’ relationship wasn’t the most investing thing to me (I’m very sorry). Don’t get me wrong, I enjoyed their relationship at times and did love them at the start because it played with tropes that I normally enjoy (shared bed, slow burn, forbidden romance, etc.). But towards the middle it just started to fall flat for the lack of complexity in their relationship other than what outside forces were placing on them. The conflict aside from the war felt soooo draggy with it's linear plot and the flow of the story was so boring to me. I didn't feel like there was enough nuance and thought provoking conversations/topics that were explored that satisfied me. To all future readers, I am telling you now that this book is a lot more character driven than I anticipated. Even though it was slow burn, my problem was that there wasn’t enough chance for me to get to know the characters individually before I was supposed to care for the romance and their problems. I really do see why everyone loves them though and I think it's more of a personal preference in certain kind of stories. In settings like these, I just can't handle when you throw two characters at me that I feel like I've watched so many versions of and expect to just fall in love. I needed something more unique? something that makes these two versions of Patroclus and Achilles feel distinct AND THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN If you are the kind of reader who needs to fall in love with the characters first before the romance, like me, you might not be as sold. Achilles was just too perfect ohmygoodness and it was so frustrating because I felt like I was Patroclus suffering through that 🤣 It felt like the two mains were getting dragged along by the plot and that is not my style at all.In case you do love their romance, which I think is the popular consensus for the book, and don’t need that much character build up, there’s a chance you’ll still love this (yay)Aside from the romance, it’s still tragic because of the war, which was intriguing to explore but again... I'm not saying nothing happened because things did, but there could have been more to it. Me being the nosey person I am loved the drama though. Give me that forbidden romance!!! *whispers* even though Achilles and Patroclus could have been more realistic *whispers*. The guy (not telling you which so it's less of a spoiler) literally ran to the forest with only his clothes on his back like a damsel racing after her lover knowing that said guy knows that he doesn't have the capabilities to track other guy down and would probably die in said forest... like???? This also might have just been overhyped to me (someone please tell me I'm not alone here) In case you reached this far into this review and have not read the book, you don’t need to worry about prior knowledge on greek mythology but I think anyeone who has read The Illiad and/or The Odyssey beforehand would get more appreciation towards this story “In the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun.” There’s nothing about the actual writing style that I hated aside from the choices in the execution of the plot and the character relationships, I still think it's a technically well written book. It’s just really hard to talk about the writing for characters and a plot that you don’t care about.I should also mention that I got spoiled for the ending of this book randomly on my timeline because the person didn’t mark their spoiler and that sucks because I lost about 50% of my already declining motivation.This was overhyped for me and it didn't reach my expectations but everyone loves this and I can see why T_TThat ending was beautiful and you know what, it was worth suffering through the last half of this book to read that ending. And that's what's important. Amiright?Anyways, this was a journey and I am...----------------------“This title is unlikely to be ready for you to borrow for at least 6 months” -Libbysee you in 6 months["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4046957453	Acho que as expectativas não deixaram dar cinco estrelas (e favoritar), mas não deixa de ser um livro muito bom! Como li Circe antes, acabei esperando coisas diferentes da história. Mas aguardo ansiosamente por mais obras da Madeline Miller <3
1668392818	2nd read: first review still stands. 1st read:Don't touch me.
2084129337	Insanely underwhelmed.
5119317697	✨re-read: You're still so pretty 6/3/24It is a stunning, gorgeous, poetic retelling of a Greek classic. After the first chapter, I was literally in tears. Madeline Miller has a gift for prose. She takes mundane sentences and turns them into magic. Why did it take me so long to pick this up?! Yet this beautiful spear had been fashioned not in bitterness, but love. Its shape would fit no one’s hand, but Achilles’, and its heft could suit no one’s strength but his. And though the point was keen and deadly, the wood itself slipped under our fingers like the slender oiled strut of a lyre The beauty of A Song of Achilles —you don't need to be an expert on Homer's Iliad to comprehend the journey that leads up to the Trojan War. Miller crafts the novel in a familiar tone, examining all aspects, and leaving the reader intrigued. Achilles and the somewhat awkward, exiled Prince Patroclus create a bond of friendship and love that is told with charm and beauty, despite the rejections and rebukes from Achilles' goddess mother, Thetis. He is half of my soul, as the poets say This I say. This and this. The way his hair looked in the summer sun. His face when he ran. His eyes were solemn as an owl at lessons. This and this and this. So many moments of happiness, crowding forward When word of Helen of Sparta's kidnapping spreads, the mighty of Greece are summoned to fight for her return. A long, arduous war ensues, pushing the two men to their fatal and promised destiny. This isn't only a love story. It's an entire imagined world turned on its head. I fell in love with the universe, savoring the detailed descriptions. When Patroclus first hears Achilles play the lyre... His fingers touched the strings and all my thoughts were displaced. The sound was pure and sweet as water, bright as lemons. It was like no music I had ever heard before. It had warmth as a fire does, a texture and weight like polished ivory. It buoyed and soothed at once Something was endearing in the way that Patroclus urged arrogance away from Achilles. He knew his name came with great power and strength, but he knew he could also remain grounded. Even when Patroclus goes into battle, he goes covertly, wanting to give honor and credit to Achilles. Pride became us—heroes were never modest The relationship between the two boys that grew into warriors was gallant and poetic. I also enjoyed the character development of other mortals and Gods Each was well layered and defined. One of my favorites is Briseis, an Anatolian captured during the Trojan by King Agamemnon. She befriends Patroclus, and their friendship is one of the book's most pure and lovely parts. She is in Agamemnon’s custody, but she is Achilles’ prize still. To violate her is a violation of Achilles himself, the gravest insult to his honor. Achilles could kill him for it, and even Menelaus would call it fair I can quote this book until tomorrow, but I need to move on at some point. I read Circe, too, but this book far exceeded my expectations. 5/5 stars that launched a thousand ships!Check out my review Circe
4787304842	˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗ 3 𝕊𝕥𝕒𝕣𝕤 ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹Alright, so The Story of Achilles is a retelling of Homer’s Iliad, which is the story of the last year of the legendary Trojan War. Much of the original story does actually revolve around Achilles, but Miller’s version not only zeroes in on this one character, it also stretches out the timeline a bit. Greece in the age of heroes. Patroclus, an awkward young prince, has been exiled to the court of King Peleus and his perfect son Achilles. By all rights their paths should never cross, but Achilles takes the shamed prince as his friend, and as they grow into young men skilled in the arts of war and medicine their bond blossoms into something deeper – despite the displeasure of Achilles’ mother Thetis, a cruel sea goddess. But then word comes that Helen of Sparta has been kidnapped. Torn between love and fear for his friend, Patroclus journeys with Achilles to Troy, little knowing that the years that follow will test everything they hold dear.I really hated how “soft” Achilles was. There’s nothing wrong with gentle and quiet men but Achilles was supposed to be one of strongest warriors of all time. In my opinion, up until the last 25% of the book Achilles just seems boring and lackluster. Again, this could only bother me because I already have an image in my mind about what traits Achilles should have.I really just have the bare bones knowledge of most Greek Mythology, it's not particularly my jam- but I did expect more action? I just felt that the whole story revolved around the romance too much and not on much else. I often felt bored because not much was going on until about the last 25%.Sigh. I'm not sure, maybe Miller just isn't an author for me. The story was enjoyable, don't get me wrong. I guess I just wanted more. 💙Greek Mythology 💙World Changing Battle💙Epic Love💙Undying Love & Devotion💙Childhood Friend Romance💙Re-imaging💙First Person Peripheral Narrator💙LGBT Rep⋆✴︎˚｡⋆ Connect with me on Instagram ˗ˏˋ★‿︵‧ ˚ ₊⊹
1840093202	“We were like gods, at the dawning of the world, and our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.” The hype was real with this one guys! This book was wonderful. Heartbreaking yet powerful. Violent yet with some of the softest hearts. I’ve read The Iliad. I studied Classics at University. I know the story of Achilles and the Trojan War like the back of my hand. But that didn’t stop me from being entirely swept away by the epic love story of Achilles and Patroclus. I watched their story unfold with more and more trepidation as I waited for its ultimate tragic end. “Our world was one of Blood, and the honour it won; only cowards did not fight. For a Prince there was no choice. You warred and won, or warred and died.” Seeing them both as they grew up together. Patroclus with his lack of fighting ability, compared with Achilles’ god-like abilities. I enjoyed reading about Achilles’ nymph mother, even though I hated her! I loved spotting all the other characters, from Odysseus and Nestor, to Paris and Hector. This is a historical retelling at its most gripping. Never a dull moment, never a time when I wasn’t either petrified or heartbroken. Madeline Miller I salute you. “It is right to seek peace for the dead. You and I both know there is no peace for those who live after.”
2302475331	As soon as I finished reading my ARC of Circe, I had to get my hands on this book! Although I did like Circe more, I did enjoy this book as well.I will not give my synopsis as I would be giving away too many spoilers, but what I will say is that one does not need to be overly knowledgeable about the Greek Gods, the Trojan war or Achilles to enjoy this book. Of course, knowledge is power and would help but not knowing will not detract from the story at all. This is a brilliant re-telling of Achilles and the Trojan War! It has a little bit of everything for everyone: heroes, demi-gods, Gods, romance, ancient kings, adventure, lust for fame, and the sorrows of death.
2279220133	RTCJust finished this masterpiece and I don't think I wanna think about anything else for a long while. I wanna drown and drown in it over and over again. I'll never forget this book. Never.Listening to these 3 continuously now.https://youtu.be/KzvOJtq1FfMhttps://youtu.be/1w1u9VYDKykhttps://youtu.be/l2rrzNwMwlk
4138690927	2,5/5
4666245225	SO GOOD! Believe the hype and read this immediately. No prior knowledge of Homer is necessary, though the novel is an adaptation of The Iliad if you're curious. I went in with little knowledge of mythology and loved everything. Possibly because it was all so new to me. I had read The Odyssey over ten years ago and The Penelopiad, Margaret Atwood's brilliant adaptation, but that's it. I haven't even seen Brad Pitt in Troy.The love story between Achilles and Patroclus was all news to me and kept me totally enraptured. Miller doesn't just breathe life into these characters, she transforms them into powerful romantic figures deserving (and exceeding) of their iconic status. I researched her source material enough to know that many scenes are imagined from mere scraps of verse. Others are pretty much straight Homer, but done in a way that feels approachable and immediate.Crafting well-rounded characters is challenging enough, but Miller makes gods and centaurs feel like people we all know. Narrating the story through Patroclus' point of view was smart. As a non-god, he can appropriately admire the various supreme beings around him, and he has room to grow into a legendary hero himself.I don't dare reveal anything more. The less you know the better. Be surprised and become obsessed as you journey through adventures from a mythological time. With so much stress in the real world, The Song of Achilles is practically doctor prescribed. It's just fantastic enough to be an escape, but also just real enough to deliver wisdom by the end.
3680114256	OUT OF FIVEACTUAL RATING: 5 fucking, heart wrenching and so worth it starsPLOT: 4CHARACTERS: 14AWESOMENESS:30000000000Rep: m/m coupleI am so not okayI'm not supposed to be crying on my birthday but here we are, in the bathroom crying my eyes out!“I could recognize him by touch alone, by smell; I would know him blind, by the way his breaths came and his feet struck the earth. I would know him in death, at the end of the world.”This was too beautiful even for me gahhhh!!“He is half of my soul, as the poets say.”“In the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun.”Just a quick advice:Keep a box of tissue close to you when you read thisRip your heart out and throw it away cause, where you're going, YOU WON'T NEED IT.And remember you're entering this at your own risk!If you still wanna read itWho would have thought this historical romance between Achilles and Patroclus would be the death of me(NOT ME!)
4246142441	hello darkness my old friend. sometimes, after i read a book, i wonder why the book was written. this one i know. this book was written to lure in depressed readers seeking a wholesome lgbtq story then catch them in a moment of vulnerability and slaughter them. it was bait. we fell into the trap. and now im dead.name one hero who was happyi canti know they never let you be famous and happy. ill tell you a secret.tell me.i'm going to be the first.swear it.why me?because you're the reason.swear it.i swear itSHE DIDN'T LET ACHILLES BE FAMOUS AND HAPPY. HE WASN'T THE FIRST. he only realized that he chose wrong after he was clutching patroclus' body to his chest. fuckkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk. after everything. he deserved that. we deserved that. WHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY some authors you just know are sipping their tea in one hand and crushing our hearts with the other I. AM. DESTROYED. im sobbing this is how i start my day? with absolute fucking heartbreak. someone get me some ben and jerry's stat. i don't want to see people today. i would trade them in for achilles and patroclus' life back. give me achilles and patroclus back. they're mine. you stole them from me. YOU HAD NO RIGHT. id trade in all u suckers in a heartbeat. my reaction reading the last few pages of the book:how will i function for the rest of the day. im hollow
4173474531	Pues terminé. Me siento satisfecho y pleno. La canción de Aquiles ha sido una de las narraciones que más me ha fascinado. La conexión entre los protagonistas es tan maravillosa que no pude evitar sentir un vacío cuando cerré el libro. Madeline hizo un espectacular trabajo para contarnos a detalle y con exactitud lo que nos narran en la Ilíada.De los mejores de este año.Pronto reseña en el canal ✨📚
4608918028	Probably the best book I’ve read this year. In a very well-researched way Madeline Miller retells the Iliad from Patroclus’ perspective and leads us into a journey that seems to last a lifetime to describe the unbreakable bond between Patroclus and Achilles. Love, loyalty, passion, honor, and pride are key ingredients that lead to a remarkable must read and that will help many get immerse into the magnificent world of the Greek mythology and understand in a much simpler way Homer’s Iliad.
3947576279	This was beautifully written & I loved how it stayed mostly true to greek mythology stories. I cried at the end but I didn’t sob like I expected to because I lowkey really liked how it ended? The only reason this wasn’t a full 5 star for me was because it was really slow at times & I did get a little bored. But I loved it nonetheless. <3 “he is half of my soul—as the poets say.”
1342432101	No me hablen
3759888341	Un libro semplicemente stupendo.La storia d'amore tra Achille e Patroclo è forse una delle più belle che abbia mai letto.L'autrice è riuscita a trasformare dei "semplici" personaggi della mitologia greca in persone in carne ed ossa con sentimenti ed emozioni tipicamente umani. Anche se Achille incarna il tipico eroe greco orgoglioso e arrogante, attraverso questo libro si impara a conoscere anche la sua natura umana.Patroclo è stato il mio personaggio preferito all'interno di tutto il libro, non c'è stato un solo momento in cui mi abbia fatto ricredere.Sono rimasta piacevolmente sorpresa in molte parti del libro.Inutile dire che ho pianto numerose volte ma era impossibile non piangere in alcune parti.Sicuramente lo rileggerò in futuro quando sentirò la mancanza di una storia d'amore a lieto fine.
2839549653	I read this for a video, it's a little bit out of my comfort zone, but wow this story was beautiful. So well-written and so heart breaking and the romance happening in this book was e v e r y t h i n g, see my full thoughts here: https://youtu.be/2OknqgHLvIE
5629457034	|| 5.0 stars ||When I read Circe I completely fell in love with this author’s gorgeous writing, and I just knew I had to read this book as well. And wow, am I glad that I did, because this was yet another piece of art. The prose enchants to the bone and the story feels so deeply visceral that nothing quite compares to it. The words flow so naturally and the descriptions are so beautiful; it can do nothing but make your heart feel completely full, and then, at the end, leave it behind aching and broken.If you’re familiar with The Iliad, you will know the heartbreak and tragedy that awaits Patroclus and Achilles. You might think this would take the suspense out of it, but it does not. Instead it makes the entire story feel incredibly important somehow. Like every moment of life we get to see from them feels precious because we know it will all end so soon. It gives the story intense weight and deep emotion from the very beginning. The love story we get to see between these star-crossed lovers is intense and magical; they are intwined in a way that is almost impossible to understand, but somehow the author makes us understand. We see the dedication these men have towards each other, the complete adoration, and the utter devotion. Of course, we also see the troubles... How Patroclus is always expected to be in the shadow, and how Achilles will eventually let his pride eclipse all else. It is not all rainbows and sunshine, and in the end there can be no love, no matter how strong, that will stop things from falling to pieces.The characterization in this story is also truly incredible: Achilles as the fated hero, and Patroclus as the fated nobody. Still, we see that even though Achilles is the man who has it all, who could do anything, he is not necessarily the person who will use those gifts for good. Instead, Patroclus, with no particularly special talent at all, will be more of a hero at heart than Achilles ever was. However, the fates did not give Patroclus the power or destiny to be a hero, so no matter how strong his will may be, he cannot do what Achilles could have done, if only Achilles had been willing to set aside his pride... A pride that turns out to be so indestructible that it will doom them both. Madeline Miller books: The Song of Achilles - 5.0 starsCirce - 5.0 starsGalatea - 4.0 stars
3534559554	Amazing remake of a classic Greek myth, but instead of an epic war we've got emotional tragic story if love, friendship and betrayal
2071832400	"Permanecerá por él y le hablará a todos los que pasen: vivió y murió y ahora vive de nuevo en la memoria"."It will stand for him, and speak to all who pass: he lived and died, and lives again in memory"No sé qué esperaba encontrarme cuando leí La Canción de Aquiles. Lo cierto es que el libro no fue lo que me imaginaba. Aquí, Madeleine Miller nos cuenta una reinterpretación de las vidas de Aquiles y Patroclo desde que son unos chicos hasta que se ven forzados a pelear en la Guerra de Troya. Además, La Canción de Aquiles no la narra Aquiles mismo, sino Patroclo, y eso fue algo que me decepcionó de cierta manera en un principio. Creo que cuando empecé el libro, quería encontrarme con una historia de romance, de amores prohibidos, de huir de la desaprobación de los dioses y de enfrentarse al destino que las Moiras les habían preparado a Aquiles y Patroclo. Y no. La Canción de Aquiles no se centra en la relación romántica de estos dos personajes, se centra en el paso lento de los años, en una amistad que se va cultivando lentamente, en los entrenamientos de quien sería el mejor de los griegos, en el estar conforme con ser sencillamente una sombra detrás de un héroe, en los pequeños momentos robados y en el amor incondicional que se crea tras años de compartirlo todo. De las cosas que más me gustaron de La Canción de Aquiles fue el sentir la esencia de La Ilíada y de los textos antiguos de mitología en ella. Madeleine Miller no se toma demasiadas licencias literarias para adornar una historia que, en su mayoría, ya está contada. Lo que hace la autora es rescatar esa relación entre dos hombres, explorarla a fondo y narrarla de manera que, desde la mente de Patroclo, llegamos a entender a Aquiles más allá del ser pedante y seguro de sí mismo que nos ha enseñado la Historia. La Canción de Aquiles no es un libro que apoye su trama en los acontecimientos, pues todos ya están narrados. Es un libro que se centra en los personajes, en volverlos más humanos a pesar de su procedencia divina. Junto a Aquiles y Patroclo vivimos las diversiones de la niñez, las dudas del autodescubrimiento en la adolescencia, el miedo que implica enfrentarse al mundo y a las profecías, la determinación de defenderse mutuamente y la inevitabilidad de los sentimientos. Ahora, a pesar de mi amor por la mitología y las reinterpretaciones históricas, sentí que La Canción de Aquiles fue un libro que tal vez pudo haberse narrado de una manera más ágil. Me parece que la historia, antes de llegar a la Guerra de Troya, fue lentísima a pesar de la cantidad de años que pasaban. Aunque, de nuevo, puede que esto sea únicamente una percepción mía porque, como les dije, esperaba un libro completamente distinto al que leí. Eso sí, debo confesarlo, La Canción de Aquiles me llegó bastante hondo y sentía las desgracias de Aquiles y Patroclo como si fueran mías. Puede que incluso haya llorado un poco porque vaya final más cruel, Madeleine, vaya final más cruel.
