793805934	When I was a child, one of my favourite things to do was to look through pictures in books - children's picture books, colouring books, etc. - and tell stories in my mind with them. For example, a picture of two children holding hands would start this story of friendship, which would then grow with every picture, introducing grander stories and dragons, unicorns, whatever the pictures gave me.Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children reminds me of that.This story, for me, feels completely disjointed and messy. It is evidently framed around this marvelous collection of creepy, vintage photographs, but the story is not smoothly incorporated. It reads like you can imagine the author viewing each image and trying to find a way to fit it into the plot of the book. Here's a weird image of a girl smoking a pipe and peeling potatoes, how can I make that part of the story? Here's a creepy picture of some twins in clown outfits, how do I add that to the book?And if you're thinking of reading this as a creepy book for Halloween - it is not scary at all. The narrative never delivers an atmosphere deserving of the photography. It's all a bit bland and never becomes anything more than a standard paranormal tale about teens/children with special powers.Additionally, the narrator - Jacob - is simply not a character I like to read about. I hate it when rich, privileged narrators constantly wallow in their own self-pity for no good reason. Here, he says: If I never went home, what exactly would I be missing? I pictured my cold cavernous house, my friendless town full of bad memories, the utterly unremarkable life that had been mapped out for me. What??? He is from a ridiculously wealthy family and has two loving parents and lives in a huge house. He did have a part time job, but he took it for granted and spent his time showing up late and deliberately shelving things wrong because he wanted to be fired. He also did have a best friend, but his friend not surprisingly walked out after this exchange: “What are you, my mom?”“Do I look like I blow truckers for food stamps?” I did not like him at all. Some unlikable characters are unlikable in a complex and interesting way, but Jacob is just a spoiled, entitled and selfish brat. Add that to the simplistic, yet messy, storytelling and this book was completely disappointing. I'm also tempted to say it "reads like a middle grade" book, but that would be an insult to some of the fantastic middle grade books I've read recently. It just reads like a not very good book.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store
758721883	This book has been getting a lot of well-deserved attention for the way it incorporates unusual antique photographs into the narrative. The premise: Jacob grew up on his grandfather’s stories about his own childhood during World War II. Supposedly his grandfather escaped the Holocaust by taking refuge on a Welsh island, at an orphanage that catered to children with strange powers. The grandfather even has photos to prove it. As Jacob grows up, he loses faith in his grandfather, and assumes the stories were fantasies, the photos faked. But when a horrible, inexplicable tragedy occurs, Jacob has to reevaluate. Could those stories have been real? Could this island refuge still exist so many years later? And is it possible his grandfather’s paranoia about ‘monsters’ wasn’t just paranoia? Even without the photos, this would be a gripping story, but the photos add an irresistible element of mystery. The first-person narration is authentic, funny, and poignant. I’m looking forward to the next volume in the series!
1271204792	Edit on January 9th, 2016: I haven't thought about this book since I read it in July and I really have no interest anymore in reading the rest of the series. ----------It definitely was a slow moving book, but the plot really held my attention and I loved the use of the pictures. Sometimes I felt like he tried a little too hard to make the pictures perfectly fit into the story which made it a little awkward to read, but they still made the reading experience more interesting. The book really read like a movie and I can't wait to see how Tim Burton's interpretation is going to turn out!
242459797	I can't even.The poor execution of a good idea is just so upsetting to me.The main problem with this book is that the entire time I was reading I felt like a high school English teacher grading a student's paper, when in fact I am not a teacher or anyone who majored in English or writing. If I am simply a normal reader thinking this, then who the hell was working as the editor?? Did they not bring up these issues? Clearly the several people the author listed in his acknowledgements couldn't have been reading closely enough. The text was just screaming "amateur writer, please help." What surprises me is that the author's background is in film. Being that I myself have a background in film, I can tell you that the one thing that is stressed is making conclusive ideas. Do not bring up something that has no relevance to the rest of the story (because obviously in film, every second is costly, whereas of course in Microsoft Word there is so consequence to typing more characters.) What bothered me most was that the author seemed unaware about how to properly use the gimmick of his entire book: the old photographs, some photoshopped, some vintage original, to illustrate the world. He used several of these pictures simply to use them, and I find out later that they in fact contribute nothing to the story.That's right. There's no reason at all for them to be there.Often it seems the author was thinking "oh that's a cool picture, let's throw it in," when in fact there's no connection that it's in there, besides the narrator finding the picture. Here I'm speaking of the several pictures of Peculiars that we never meet, the clown twins (who we have TWO different photographs of at different times in the book, as if they have significance), the dog headed boy, the girl in the jar, the girl with the reflection....I could go on. Why include these photographs if they are not involved in your story? You may think they look cool, author, but it weakens your story when you make no mention of them in your story after you show their pictures. At least make up some sort of subplot about how they've been disappearing or leaving, as to why you've brought up characters simply for putting in pictures. The author states at the end of the book there are only ten children, so it's not like they're there and just not talking. So if there are only ten children, then the fact that all these pictures in there of much more than ten children makes it confusing and annoying. The lack of cohesion was just destroying my brain.Another thing that weakened the picture gimmick is that the multiple pictures of Emma were clearly different people and it bothered me that the author pretended that wasn't noticeable. The first picture of Emma was more about age 10/11 looking, and the fact that her age, or a description to indicate she's more mature, isn't stated til two chapters after we see that picture completely derailed me and what the mental picture of her was supposed to be. Then the comparison of the picture of potato peeling Emma with the last picture of Emma were not possibly believable as being the same person. I may sound picky, but if your book is centered around this idea, then make your concept strong! Horace as well, the two pictures we have of Horace aren't possibly the same person, and again, an issue with using about a 9 year old kid for his first picture and then a 17 year old boy's picture for the next. Consistency is important, and if he cared I felt he would have dug deeper into finding better photos for his characters instead of just saying "oh this might work." (And I'm not sure which ones were photoshopped and which ones weren't, but the perspective of Victor's bed in the mirror of that one picture is absolutely impossible, and it bothered me to no end looking at it)Aside from the fact that the entire book felt like it was created simply to show some 'cool vintage photos,' I felt that the author didn't have a full grip on his own ideas. He had good ideas, as complicated as they are. Nice settings, I enjoyed some of the scenes, like the glowfish, and Enoch's big moment, but the writing itself was rather weak. The thing that bothered me quite a lot for the first 2/3 of the book is that the reader is too smart for the book. This book is clearly meant for older teens, due to the language I couldn't say it's for anybody younger, and I know older teens are clearly capable of putting together the information presented and figuring out what's going on. However the narrator does not, and the reader ends up waiting several more pages each time for the narrator to figure it out and then state importantly that he's figured out what's going on as if it's a revelation when we've been waiting for the obvious for a while. Luckily though, at the end there were at least some things I did not see coming, which felt a bit better. However writing-wise I also found some general writing 'don'ts' that screamed out at me, like lack of pronoun clarification, use of cliche phrases ("face the music"), and using the same phrase over and over in only a few pages time ("torn to pieces").Additionally, the side story about Marcie (the one with the photo of the girl crouching waiting for the school bus) clearly showed me that the author didn't have a good idea of his own concept. I don't want to spoil the basic premise of how the world works, but if you think about it there's no way she could have been that age waiting for a school bus if you applied the rules of the world to her.And lastly, the way the book ended....is there supposed to be a followup book? I didn't believe so, but it's so unfinished I'm not sure. Perhaps he was going for a bit of both, like 'if this book does well I'll write another, but if not it doesn't matter.' I understand the reasoning of why it ended how it does: because of the way things turned out, the narrator is now in charge and has plenty of things to do with his life. But there's no conclusion whatsoever. The questions that such openness leaves hanging in the air just adds to the already mounting stack of issues with weak writing.Overall, the book had some good ideas, and the gimmick with the photos would have been nice, however the ideas aren't fully formed. With lots of editing and reinforcement of concept, this could have been a good book. Unfortunately, due to the fact that the people working with him on this book didn't bring up or didn't force the author to take a longer look at his numerous weak points, we end up with a book that feels flattened by the author's inability to form and communicate ideas effectively. This book is, sadly, a mess.
1118032480	yo I came for the horror, got the fluffy stuff
173727068	This book started with a bang. It was very creepy, exciting and really intriguing, but it all went downhill from there. Once the mystery around the house was explained - which was fairly early and without any nuance - it became a very boring and almost childish story, which I didn't expect at all. One thing I can say I enjoyed was the photographs- they're scattered throughout the book, all black and white and remarkably creepy. They add a nice eery touch to the story and gives it a really unique flair.The plot is what I didn't like. After its strong beginning, it fizzles into this bland and predictably dull tale. Don't get me wrong. It's very unique and unconventional so I can see it's appeal. It's also well written and does stem from great creativity, but I found it lacked too much detail and sophistication. The characters, too, fell flat and as a few things went unexplained we were left with scattered holes in the plot. This book is marketed for young adults but definitely feels more juvenile, like a child's fairy tale, which is not what I expected hence leaving me feeling a bit underwhelmed.
195877131	This is kinda like uh...a hipster Harry Potter. Not a bad thing! I liked it a lot. There are tons of cool vintage photographs that lend the air of a turn of the century freak show. I loved the world and the vibe though.
1065319404	My grandfather had described it a hundred times, but in his stories the house was always a bright, happy place—big and rambling, yes, but full of light and laughter. What stood before me now was no refuge from monsters, but a monster itself, staring down from its perch on the hill with vacant hunger. Trees burst forth from broken windows and skins of scabrous vine gnawed at the walls like antibodies attacking a virus—as if nature itself had waged war against it—but the house seemed unkillable, resolutely upright despite the wrongness of its angles and the jagged teeth of sky visible through sections of collapsed roof. Jacob Porter (I leave out his middle name, which you can enjoy discovering on your own) had been enthralled by his grandfather Abe’s magical, if frightening, tales of his past, horrifying monsters in pursuit and a safe haven of a special school in Wales for those fortunate enough to escape. When being the brunt of derision at school was too much, Jacob cast aside his faith in his grandfather’s stories, and assumed the consensus view that Gramps had been speaking metaphorically, about having been chased out of Poland by the Nazis. But when Jacob is a teen, and his grandfather is brutally murdered, he has cause to reconsider. Ransom Riggs - from The Columbus Dispatch There is something both appealing and frightening about old photographs. In our apartment when I was a kid we had a book with photos from the Civil War. The pages were in less than pristine shape, but there were occasional pages that were well preserved, and on which the images were clear. It seemed impossible that people who had lived almost a hundred years before could seem so real, even in black and white, as if they might step out of the pages into our living room. It was similar in seeing photographs of my parents and their seldom, if ever, seen relations. I only knew my parents as middle-aged or elderly. Photos of them as young seemed, somehow, unreal. Nah, they never looked like that. I often wondered who the imposter was in a photo that was supposed to be my father, in full work gear, in front of a locomotive, sans moustache. Was he really my father, and if he was, who was that guy falling asleep in the recliner in the living room?Emma Bloom from The Peculiar Children WikiaThe offbeat collection of fascinating photographs included in the book is one of the things that makes this book stand out. Ransom Riggs, the author of Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children, has a peculiar affinity for old photographs. He had originally intended to collect them into a picture book, but was encouraged to expand on what he had and make a novel out of them. He did, amassing quite the collection, trolling estate and yard sales broadening his scope and finding unexpected notions and plot direction from the new collections. He particularly enjoyed spotting photos that were odd. One appears to show a girl floating above the ground, another an invisible person in a suit, another a young man covered in bees. The book contains about fifty of these images. They lend both a sense of antiquity and strangeness. Many are downright creepy. And that is a good, sometimes a wonderful thing, particularly when the images relate to the darker elements in the story. Riggs selected a lineup of these oddities and from them constructed a tale, an explanation for what the photos purport to show. The result is magical, a triumph of imagination, and a rip-roaring read. It was just a casual hobby, nothing serious, but I noticed that among the photos I found, the strangest and most intriguing ones were always of children. I began to wonder who some of these strange-looking children had been—what their stories were—but the photos were old and anonymous and there was no way to know. So I thought: If I can’t know their real stories, I’ll make them up…Sometimes I’d find a new photo that just demanded to be included in the story, and I’d find a way to work it in; other times I’d look for a certain type of photo to fit a story idea. When he begins to dig into the meaning behind a letter his grandfather had left him, Jacob begins on the road to discovery. He must figure out what the words in grandfather’s letter mean. His quest leads him, accompanied by his amateur ornithologist father, to an island off the coast of Wales. I am not giving anything away by letting you know that on this island he finds a very special place and some very special people. Miss Peregrine from The Peculiar Children WikiaI had inconsistent reactions to the book. At first, I was smitten. What a great idea! How beautifully realized! It offered the same sort of tingle I had when reading the first Harry Potter. Later, I felt that the story-telling relied on too many tropes. Oddities-thrown-together-to-cope-in-a-hostile-world, for example. It is no stretch to see close links to, say, X-men, or The Harry Potter series, or even, in a more adult realm, the sideshow performers of Geek Love. There is the portal to another place. Think the wardrobe of Narnia fame or John Carter finding a magical route to Barsoom. Stargates and wormholes are rampant in sci-fi, as are parallel dimension tales, (The Matrix series pops to mind) and there is always the familiar story of one Dorothy Gale to show the way as well. So, a well-worn path. On the other hand, writers use tropes because they serve a story-telling purpose. What matters more is whether they use well the familiar tools at hand. And they are handled pretty well here. Jacob is a sympathetic lead. Peregrine is a familiar person in charge, the type who is courageous and caring, despite what can seem a severe façade. The crew of peculiars is perfectly fine. And Riggs has come up with a particularly nifty explanation and form for his other world. What Jacob findsStepping from one world into another, particularly for teens, is usually about leaving the nest and seeing the real world for the first time, whether this is about sexuality, fairness, conflict, truth, or all of the above. Growing up, coming of age. Jacob’s hormones are stretched a bit here, so we can check that box. Also he gets to see some of the reality of what his life pre-Peregrine featured. What were the adults in his life really like when seen through his newly acquired perspective? Can our character grow sufficiently to take on adult responsibilities, make adult decisions? You betcha. In A Conversation with Ransom Riggs, an extra section at the back of my Peregrine volume, Riggs says One of the themes of Miss Peregrine, and I think of any novel that involves the discovery of a secret world, is awakening—the protagonist’s awakening to an awesome and wonderful and, in some ways, terrible reality he scarcely could have imagined before, but that was right under his nose all along. At the end of Miss Peregrine, Jacob writes that his life was never ordinary, but he “had simply failed to notice how extraordinary it was.” Noticing the extraordinariness of the world is one of Emerson’s major themes. Again, from Nature: “If the stars should appear one night in a thousand years, how would men believe and adore, and preserve for many generations the remembrance of the city of God which had been shown. Emerson (Ralph Waldo, not Keith) is referenced several times here. In fact Emerson was much more in the book in earlier versions, according to the afterward in the volume I read. Riggs says Emerson often speaks of the possibility of fantastic things that exist just out of view, and many of his most famous quotes almost seem to refer directly to the peculiar children. He offers a mystery, and the clues that Jacob and the reader are challenged to interpret in order to figure out what is going on. And there is magic. The powers of the peculiar children are certainly fun, but not spectacular, overall. A bit of fire control, levitation, super strength, invisibility. A few stand out. One boy has a close relationship with the apian world. Another has a gift for animating the inanimate. A girl can make plants grow very, very fast. One girl has an unexpected way of eating. And, of course, Peregrine has a few nifty tricks up her wing.The underlying conflict, mirroring the war in the world when the school was founded, (WW II) offers some pretty scary baddies, wights and hollowgasts, the origin story of which called to mind Tolkien’s Gollum. The ongoing fear, chase, and battle loop is fun, generating the needed tension and keeping things moving along. Peculiars - from the filmI did not like that dad was portrayed as a dimwit. Not that he needed to be heroic, but he seemed far too lacking in strength and perception for my taste. And then, there are the changes made for the film. This review was posted before the film was released, so I can refer only to what I have read, and not to what I have actually seen. I reserve the right to modify once I have seen the movie. I am not thrilled that the film conflates two girls into one. I do understand that changes are typically made when translating a book to the medium of film. My objection is a small one. And while I expect to quite enjoy the otherworldly looking and compelling Eva Green as Peregrine, I imagined an older bird in the role. Getting Tim Burton as director is an amazing coup. Whatever changes have been made, I expect the film to be enchanting and wonderfully entertaining. The author writes that this book, like the first Harry Potter, is meant to introduce his characters and his world to readers. It is in the second book in the series, Hollow City, that we can expect to enter that world and experience it more fully. I cannot speak to that one, as I have not yet read it. But I very much want to be kept in the loop for how this series unfolds. Peculiar may not have quite the rich dazzle of the Harry Potter books, but that is a pretty high bar by which to measure any YA series. It is enough that the first one is a particularly fun hook, and a very enjoyable read, with engaging characters, a good bit of action, some mystery, some surprises and a lot of human, and maybe not-so-human, connection. I suppose the only thing that would really be peculiar would be if anyone was not interested in checking this out. Review first posted - 9/30/16Publication date – 6/7/11=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter, Instagram, and FB pagesRiggs made the trailer for this, his first novel, after traveling to Belgium and Luxembourg looking for the ruined house of his imagination. The house he selected (shown in the review) is in Belgium.The Peculiar Children Wikia offers a cornucopia of information about the book and the series‘Miss Peregrine’ and Tim Burton: The Making of a Film Fable - By Mekado Murphy - SEPT. 23, 2016The Facebook Page for the movieA fun fan-siteA fake travel agency site for Cairnholm IslandCheck out the Calmgrove site for a nifty take on where the real Cairnholm might be , and its significance
801346976	هل تستهويك تلك الصور الغريبة..الرهيبة..الأبيض والأسود ذات الطابع المقبض؟بالأخص التي بها أطفال؟؟ تلك التي صورت وقت كان الأمر مكلفا بحق مما يجعلك تفكر، لماذا؟هل تعجبك تيمة روايات المدارس التي تضم أولئك الذين ولدوا بقدرات خارقة..او سحرية؟حسنا، تعال معي وأهلا بك في عالم بيت الأنسة بيرجريني للأطفال الغرباءRead it before Tim Burton Multi-color edition of it..If you're into creepy old photos, specially those with children, you know..when Taking pictures was really too expensive to just take a creepy ones..And If you're into the theme of Schools for Extraordinary talents youth..Well, so you're Welcome here... Welcome to Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children...Oh and I can't wait to see it with Tim Burton amazing vision. But I feel it's too colorful to the tune of the novel -at least when I saw the trailer and the posters.--------------------------------جاكوب فتي في السادسة عشر من عمره, يشهد مصرع جده في حادث غامض يسبب له هلاووسولأن جده كان يروي لجاكوب الصغير حكايات غريبة بصور أغرب عندما كان طفلا, فيخاف عليه والده ان يكون مصيره مخرفا كجده...فيذهب لدكتور نفسيويقنعه الدكتور بمواجهة تخيلاته فيسافر وأبيه الي جزيرة ما بانجلترا كي يتحقق من ان بيت الايتام الذي عاش به جده بعد الحرب وهو صغير مجرد خيالات وان المكان طبيعيا لاخيال بهوهناك يكتشف حقيقة هولاء الاطفال الذين كانوا اصدقاء لجده يوما ما...كما رأهم في الصور, وذلك بين اطلال ما تبقي من بيت الانسه برجريني منذ غارات الحرب العالمية في الخمسيناتلن أحرق لك باقي المفاجأت التي ستكتشفها مع جاكوب حول ماضي جده وحقيقة تلك الصور الغريبة التي كانت بحوزته والبقية التي وجدها جاكوب بعد اكثر من 60 عاما منذ ان غادر جده البيت...منذ ان تم ضرب البيت بقذائف الغارات في الحربA sixteen years old Jacob Portman witness the death of his beloved grandfather..which cause for him nightmares, and delusions..May be it's just because his grandfather's weird stories and creepy photos of his childhood..Fearing end up bit loony as people said about his grandfather, he goes to a Psychiatrist..He convince him to face his fantasies and goes to the place where his grandfather grow up, his old Home/School, just to prove that's all imagination and everything is just normal..And so, Jacob goes to some Island in UK with his father to explore the place .... but he explore more about those childhood friends of his grandfather, more about the house that destroyed in the WW II....I won't spoil how he find out everything...just will give you a hint...He'll meet his grandfather old friends....The Children themselves......*****************************هي قصة عن الصداقة والعجائب ، نبذ المجتمع للغريب عنهقصة عن تقبل الاخر...وعن الصراع للبقاءكحبكة وقصة أعتقد أن تقييمي لها 3 نجوم او 3 ونص بغض النظر عن تتابعات النهاية والتي كنت انتظر منها المزيدمايشفع للنهاية فعلا هو انها بداية للجزء الثاني..اما ما زاد من تقييمي فهو أمرانأولا الاسلوب السينمائي السهل للمؤلف في الوصف بسهولة وبدون ملل سواء للشخصيات, الاماكن, الاحداث وحتي الاكشن كان افضل بكثير من روايات اخري قد تكون اقوي ولكن وصف الاكشن فيها ممل بالنسبه لياذا ما راجعت اغلب الريفيوهات ستجد ان لدي دائما مشكلة في روايات قوية ولكن الاكشن بها لم يعجبنيفمشاهد الصراع قبل النهاية كانت وصفها سينمائي قليل جدا ما يرضيني بحقوان كانت كما قل..احتجت المزيد من الحبكة بجزء النهاية الامر الثاني والاهم هو كيف تم اخراج هذا الكتاب هو بالتأكيد ما زاد تقييمي لربما 4 ونصف "تم حجب النصف لمعرفة ما اذا كانت السلسله نفسها تستحق ام لااولا قبل الحديث عن اخراج الفني للرواية يجب ذم واستحقار ما يحدث في دور النشر المصرية الذي لا يتناسب مع اسعارهما بخصوص الاوان الطباعة..كدار الشروق في استخصار وضع بروتريهات اروايات نجيب محفوظ ضمن الكتاب كما كان يحدث في مكتبة مصر ودور اخري في رداءة الوان الغلاف او الطباعة الداخليةفي هذه الرواية كالصورة السابقة تزدان 15% من صفحاتها بصور غريبة التي تعبر عن احداث الرواية نفسها, علي ورق فاخر جدا لم اجده حتي الان في رواية مصرية ..وبالمناسبة...سعر هذا الكتاب النسخة الورقية منه نفس سعر رواية نادي السيارات التابعة لدار الشروقعاما نسخةالورقية للاسف ليس بها هذه الصفحتين في الصورة السابقة " مختصر اسماء الابطال مع صورهم" والموجودة فقط في النسخة الهاردكفر ولكن النسخة الورقية عامابها جميع الصور الأخري وحتي تلك صور الابطال نفسهم ولكن متفرقة ضمن الاحداث, هذا جعلني في بعض الاحيان يختلط علي بعض الاسماءكما ان بها اضافة حوار مع المؤلف يفجر فيه مفاجأة حقيقة تلك الصور الموجودة بالكتاب....انه بالرغم من انه قد يأتي وقت تشعر ان الصور قام بتصويرها محترف الا ان الصور فعلا هي صور قديمة غير معروف اصحابها وقام ببراعه المؤلف في نسجها في تلك الرواية ولهذا المجهود, مع الطباعة والأخراج الفني الذي يحترم القارئ..مع قصة جيدة فعلاتم منحها هذا التقييم..واتمني ان يكون الجزء القادم افضل ايضا في الحبكة من ذلكخاصا ان النهاية لم ترق لي حبكتها وغير مشجعة كثيرا للبدء في الجزء الثانيThe Story, the plot worth 3, 3.5 of 5 Stars...Just if I skip rating the last chapters..which I expected to be stronger..What may make these last ones okay that it's consider a "new beginning" to the next novel...which I hope it'd be even stronger.Two points made me appreciate the novel more :First the Cinematic way of the story telling, and the ease of describing the action made it a good fun read....although I'm not big fan of long action describing but it was easy here..The Second is the AMAZING photos and the overall design of the book - I notice that the Hardcover edition even more better with the character photo table too- it was really elegant and creepy..I suspect first that the pictures were made for the novel but it gave me the creep when I know that it was real photos..Great work been done, that why I appreciate the novel more ,and gave it another 0.5 points to Gryffindor to the rating...I didn't like the ending chapters much... it's not huge encourage to try book two...But still, sure I will try part 2 soon..~~~~~~~~~~After watching the movie thoughts: It's Great, not all multi color...on the contrary, The shifting in the atmosphere and colors of the scenes was AMAZING.. exactly just how I imagine it.Have mixed feelings about the ending though. just as the book though it's still very different. محمد العربيمن 21 مايو 2014الي 27 مايو 2014الريفيو في 24 يونيو 2014
2934471599	For most of his life Jacob's grandad had spoken of his amazing adventures and the peculiar friends that he had, even providing photographic evidence, but as time passed Jacob grew out of the 'stories' considering way too far fetched to be true, until after a tragedy and his reaction to it, he finds himself having his own adventure! This is a delightfully quirky and peculiar read punctuated by genuine peculiar images from the past. What came first the book or the photos? Google and find out (only after you've read the book).￼I like that the characters are attributed photographic evidence of their existence, and that some moments in the book are depicted by a vintage photograph. The world building, the photos, the characters are all top drawer - the story at times not so much, there are few glaring plot holes, but all-in-all, I liked it enough to want to read the sequel. One of those books where the concept, reality and characters are way too good for the just average plotting, still the aforementioned are good enough to earn this book, less on second read, a 7 out of 12, three Stars.2023 and 2019 read
2246001044	This was amazing and I enjoyed it immensely. I actually grabbed this book because I loved the movie. And I watched this movie because, yes, I love anything fantastical and magical......but mostly, I watched it because I adore Eva Green…God, I love her. ...and I will literally watch any movie she’s in. Because, as I said…obsessed. Isn't she fierce?Anystalker, after watching the movie – which I don’t even know why I loved so much, I just did – I really wanted to read the book. Ya’ll know how that goes. I’ll be honest though, I didn’t expect to like it as much as the movie. So color me surprised when I did. It’s always dicey with movies and books, no? Most people ALWAYS like the book better; and I usually do too – when I have read the book BEFORE seeing the movie. But, for whatever reason, for me it’s usually a simple matter of which one I ingested first. If I read the book first, I typically always like the book more. Full stop.…However, full transparency, I must admit: most of the time, if I saw the movie first, I have no desire to pick up the book so I never manage to read the book, anyway. In those cases where I HAVE actually grabbed the book post-movie…I typically liked the movie better. Examples of this are The Notebook and A Walk to Remember…so, apparently if it’s a Nicholas Sparks book, I will like the movie better. LOL. Just realizing that now. Le sigh.Anyway, in the case of this movie, I just knew the book would have details the movie didn’t (as is always the case, I know) and I really wanted to know what those details were. Again, full transparency, I actually think seeing the movie first made this book better for me. As I said, I love Eva Green. And I really enjoyed all the other characters and actors from this movie too. So, of course, I was visualizing them as I was reading. Which I really enjoyed. The book was very different than the movie in many ways. The characters Emma and Olive had their peculiarity traded for the movie, apparently. In the book, Emma is the walking furnace and Olive is the floater.As such, the book was obviously missing one of my favorite scenes from the movie:There were some other major differences too, one of the most obvious being the appearance of Miss Peregrine herself. Obviously, she was portrayed differently in the movie than she was in the book:But, I don't care. Right or wrong, I was picturing my Eva throughout my reading adventure. Now, even though it may seem like it's becoming one, I'm not here to do a compare/contrast essay on the book vs the movie, so I will move on from that. I really, really enjoyed Ransom Rigg's writing style. Also, even though this is billed as a "children's book," there was a grittiness to it that sets it apart from most books of its kind. Kind of like Grimm's Red Riding Hood vs Disney's Red Riding Hood. Creepier, bloodier, and more visceral all around. I also really enjoyed the pictures that were strategically placed throughout the book. What a treat to be able to read about characters and then have mysterious pictures of them pop up several pages later. The coolest part is, in the back of the book, Riggs explains how all the pictures are authentic, vintage photographs (that were only mildly retouched in certain cases to depict a peculiarity) which were part of large vintage collections. Be-YOND cool. Also, he talks about how the pictures influenced the story and how his background in film influenced his writing. Pretty MADE to be a movie, no?Thus, super excited about my next read - before I tackle Hollow City - because I just can't wait:
3622402217	This is kind of book, you want to throw it against the wall, scream and run to the opposite direction or put it on a freezer like Joe Tribbiani did to Shining and be scared to defrost it for years! That soul freezing, earth shattering story, those haunted photos force you to wear big girl pants before deciding to get your ticket for this one of the most disturbing, crazy wild ride! When I first read it when I was dumb and teenager, I suffered from very unpleasant ( oh boy, is there any pleasant nightmare? See I’m still dumb!) suffocating nightmares! So I chose this bloody blue full moon, Mercury retrograde ( thankfully it moved from Scorpio to Libra) and Halloween day to face my fears! But I made a quick change and I decided to listen audiobook this time! And I’m telling you my friends, if you haven’t listened this audiobook, you’re truly missing something extraordinary! Jesse Bernstein did a marvelous job! He gives you chills, he makes you laugh, he pushes you out of your comfort zone and help you have so much fun! What a best way to face your fears and spend your Halloween weekend! Most of you know the eerie, blood freezing, highly dark and bleak concept of the book: little Jacob Portman was addicted to his grandpa’s stories who has survived during the Second World War by running away from man eating monsters and living in a house for peculiar children protected by wise old bird. When Jacob grows older the stories his grandfather told lost its touch. He becomes more logical and doubtful to believe them. And his grandfather is found at the outskirts of Florida Woods with blood stains, fainted, telling his last mysterious words about finding that old wise bird which protects the house of peculiar children! Then he dies!After losing his grandfather, Jacob starts suffering from nightmares and his psychiatrist advised him to go Cairnholm, Wales; the very same location where peculiar children lived in his grandfather’s story. His doctor thinks facing his fears will help him to heal his invisible scars of his soul but he couldn’t be so wrong!! Overall: as for me facing my fears turned into an entertaining experiment! Thanks to the amazing narrator, this audiobook definitely made my weekend!
1062692676	A peculiar reading indeed! This is the first book in the trilogy of the same name than the title of this very book. THE PECULIAR X-MENISH We cling to our fairy tales until the price for believing them becomes too high. This was a book hard to rate, since it provoked some contradictory feelings.I enjoyed a lot the concept of creating a new “world to be discovered” in an era where it’s supposed that everywhere was already explored, along with such unique (for not saying “particulars”) characters. However, it was kinda bummer that the story lacks of action, until the very final climax, where even there, you are left in a huge cliffhanger, so not having a real closure in the book was disappointing too.I can understand that this is a trilogy, so we won’t have a definitive closure in the first book, BUT, leaving the book in a cliffhanger, always got you unbalanced.Also, as I commented, the book lacks of action, and while you have it at the final climax of the book, it’s what you can tell as something that intense, that you may expected with such “peculiar” characters, in both sides of good and evil.However, I still am amazed of the level of imagination, developing character totally “peculiar” breaking the boundaries of logic or common sense, that I enjoy a lot, since your real life is limited by logic and common sense without any remedy, but if you’re reading fantasy, you want to be mindblowed, and certainly you find some character with “peculiar” features, so wacky, so astonishing that you have to thank the brain of this author to go beyond.Along with breaking that awful reality of our time that with orbital satélites, there isn’t any place in the world unexplored, so finding again “new places” to explore, it’s such a wonderful treat.And of course……you have the photographs!Peculiar, odd, spooky, you never know what you’ll find in the next photo! …what an unchallenging life it would be if we always got things right in the first go. So, while I expected a higher overall reading experience in this first book……the series already proved me that it’s indeed “peculiar”, different than other book series, and yes, I want to continue the journey.So, we’ll see you in the second book in the very near future! P.S. UPDATE (October, 10th, 2016)I already watched the movie adaptation and I liked it a lot. I think the movie has better rhythm and a climax more satisfactory in the sense of action. Also, besides some changes in characters interactions, the movie was designed to work as a stand-alone story, must likely in the chance that it wouldn't be able to adapt the other two books in the series.
550891067	Seeing this book when I entered the bookstore one time, the peculiar cover truly piqued my curiosity. I didn't buy it that instant though or the time after that and the time after that. Although it was on my "to-read list", I wasn't a big fan of supernatural stories (this is what I assumed the story to be about) and so reading this wasn't one of my top priorities. I knew I had to read it some point in time to finally cross it off the list and when I heard about the Ransom's book signing, I knew it was the perfect timing.Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children centers on Jacob, a young boy who ever so loved his grandfather, the man who filled his head with endless mysterious yet wondrous and terrible tales of people with amazing power and monsters too. Growing up though, his faith in his grandfather's stories grew into doubt. As an unfortunate tragedy befalls Jacob, he thinks he's lost his mind- his head full of darkness. He thinks the only way to solve his problems would be to go back to where it all started- to where his grandfather started. He finds himself in a bleak island and stumbles into the broken old house where his grandfather used to live, the place that he will find the truth about himself and everything else.From the very start, I was at ease with the way the book was written and was in love with how the author conveyed words. I never knew that such simple sentences could be so haunting and beautiful. The way Jacob's character was portrayed was really good. Even though I usually have a hard time relating to a boy's point of view, I found it easy to relate with Jacob's. I grew to understand his relationship with his grandfather. I grew to understand his curiosity and restlessness, his peculiarity. I even understood his attraction to Emma.Although I enjoyed reading Jacob (I really did, despite the darkness that I feel lurks inside him), my favorite character would be Millard. How awesome is it that he's invisible? And aside that, I found him totally hilarious!! I really did love all the peculiar children. Each were just so unique, not just with their skills but also their persona. Miss Peregrine's is a really amazing book.The setting, the characters, the plot, the photos were weaved together beautifully to create a wonderful, one-of-a-kind story that surely leaves a great impression upon the reader. I wouldn't consider the ending as a cliff-hanger but it was open ended. It does have a sense of moving forward, making you anticipate the next book.
1584682173	“I used to dream about escaping my ordinary life, but my life was never ordinary. I had simply failed to notice how extraordinary it was."Mystery begets mystery as the world of Miss Peregrine and her orphanage for peculiar children takes shadowy shape. I was immediately intrigued by how the story unfolds (through vintage photographs) in Ransom Riggs' Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children #1. The atmosphere works nicely with our protagonist's search for answers on a remote island off the coast of Wales where most of the action takes place. After a beginning (which quickly drew me in), it took some time for me to get caught up in the story again. The ending left plenty of mystery (maybe a bit too much), but I enjoyed the story!
1591161015	I am speechless. This book was so good. I loved it so much. It was fun to read this and for a long time I haven't felt that feeling while reading a book.
1926276965	Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest #1 Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children - ★★★★#2 Hollow City - ★★★★★ It doesn’t hurt me to say that I have watched the movie before I read the book. What hurts me to say is that even though I loved the book, I enjoyed the movie way more. But I am not here to compare the book and the movie, because I loved them both in a different way. ‘’I had just come to accept that my life would be ordinary when extraordinary things began to happen.’’ Jacob was raised by his grandfather, who told him stories about the amazing house he used to live in, and all the children that lived with him, that had amazing abilities and were different than ordinary people. Grandpa Portman would even show Jacob pictures of the children and their peculiarities - he would tell him stories about the invisible boy, the girl that could float if she didn’t have iron boots, the girl that could breath out fire and the children that could easily lift the heaviest rocks. He would also talk about the danger and the big monsters that the children were so scared of. And Jacob believed and loved these stories - he shared an amazing bond with his grandpa. Until, of course, he grew up. Suddenly, he was old enough to know this isn’t true, and stopped believing. His grandpa would try to convince him, and warn him that the monsters are coming, but the only conclusion he had is that his grandpa lost his marbles. But then his grandpa dies, and Jacob sees the monsters himself. Despite everyone believing that he is crazy, just like his grandpa, Jacob now has no choice but to find these strange children - and get answers to all his questions. The book moves quite slow, and it is not until half of the book that we actually get to meet the children. As a person that watched the movie, this was extremely frustrating, as I kept waiting and waiting, and nothing special happened for 90 pages. The author puts photographs in the book, and they're perfectly put in the book to explain how a character looks, and to describe the scene better. This was the strawberry to my cake in this book. I immensely enjoyed the beautiful photographs and how perfectly well they fitted with the book and detailed the characters. The only character that I couldn’t imagine was Miss Peregrine - her picture is not at all what I expected. At first, I thought about sharing some of those pictures here - but then, I assumed you might enjoy them more if you explore them yourself while reading the book, as they come - as I could never be able to do that as well as Ransom Riggs did. For the ones you watched the movie first - the movie is not at all the same as the book. So lower your expectations, otherwise you will be disappointed. The movie seemed to have put three books into one, and swapped people’s abilities, and made up some scenes and places. The book, however, had parts that you wouldn’t see in the movie, and its own magic of detailed descriptions to your favorite stories and characters. I hated Jacob. Not just at the beginning, but all the way through. Mister ‘’I-am-too-good-for-everything’’ , Mister ‘’My-family-is-so-rich-I-will-try-my-best-to-get-fired-from-work-because-my-uncle-owns-the-shop’’. No - Just no. As much as I enjoyed his story, his character is very egocentric and unlikeable. I actually liked Grandpa Abe so much more, even though he was only partially and ghostly present in the book.Miss Peregrine didn’t reveal much of her character as she does in the movie. We don’t get to read a lot about her to be honest, and she was the one person I expected to see more of. We get to hang around with the children a lot though, and meet Emma, the girl that has fire powers, and that used to be Grandpa Abe’s lover and now Jacob - which is more than weird, but oh well… ‘’She moved to pinch me again but I blocked her hand. I’m no expert on girls, but when one tries to pinch you four times, I’m pretty sure that’s flirting.’’ We get to meet Millard, the invisible boy, Olive, the girl that can float without her iron boots, Fiona, who can make plants and trees grow in seconds and many other lovely children with even lovelier abilities. This is an amazing story about extraordinary people, children who will amuse you with how cute they can be, a bit of (well, a lot of) time travel and a great valuable lesson that everyone in this world is peculiar and extraordinary in their own way! A must-read to all of you that love some fantasy stories and different worlds. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
1840074804	“If all the suns but ours collapsed tonight, how many lifetimes would it take us to realise that we were alone? I had always known the sky was full of mysteries – but not until now had I realised how full of them the earth was.” I thoroughly enjoyed this mysterious fantasy! Jacob’s grandfather always used to tell him stories about his childhood. About a children’s home filled with kids who all had wonderful and strange capabilities; from invisibility and super strength to having two mouths or a constant swarm of bees following them. Jacob would take his grandfather’s tales with a pinch of salt, he was after all a Jew during WW2 – the horrors he witnessed, the family he lost, it’s no wonder his grandfather had a bit of a wild imagination.Even when he showed Jacob the photographs Jacob thought surely they had been doctored – they weren’t real…. Right?When Abraham dies suddenly leaving Jacob with his dying words, Jacob makes a trip to Wales – to find this children’s home from his grandfather’s past once and for all. His parents think Jacob is cracking up, but maybe this trip will help him return to sanity. Whilst there Jacob discovers a new world. One where Peculiar children live in hiding, in a permanent time loop. Where their carer Miss Peregrine does everything within her power to protect the children from the monsters that hunt them.This was a great story, with action and magic but also death and war. The time loop the children are in is during WW2 so it’s a bit of historical fiction corresponding with the present time that Jacob is in. And the photographs made this story even more remarkable! They were truly outstanding. I can’t wait to continue this series.
1321932847	Booo...! The dude's a photography collector not a novelist.Very disappointed not only in reading this nicely-packaged "novel", but to learn that Tim Burton is directing its celluloid equivalent. GAG. Will someone use good novel material already!After my time with it--in which the reader silently prays that more photos will be included, less prose--I am left like a kitten rolled around in thorns. Too many to pick at, I guess I find the biggest fault (a biggie) in the inconsistency of voice. The narrator... is he modern? youthful? He goes to the library because although he lives in modern times he has no internet, and he says stuff like "unreasonably expensive Adirondack", & "Ricky, whose car cost less than my monthly allowance at age 12" (what a fucking jackass, this douche!). Also, describes something as a "David Lynch nightmare", says his father gets an "ornithology boner" when he figures that he can con the parental to follow him in some insipid self-appointed voyage to an English isle, cuz, you know, the guy is rich and the father is a scientist. One last one: "Sisyphean suicide cult." Puh-lease. This is the main problem, the trunk of the narrative structure, & its faulty as fuck.Suddenly, a lighthouse appears for the action to take place in. Suddenly, the X-men seem less fantastical than these group of misfits (none of them with original powers, mind you). The titular character is a Hitchcock figure-meets-Nanny McPhee concoction which possesses zero personality. It is super inconsistent, super lame, and what's up with the old children talking with modern lingo?Just bad. But the pictures, yeah. Scan through those.Lastly, "Miss Peregrine's" has that uncomfortably modern attribute, an a-ha moment very early on when the reader realizes that he's been had: for he's treated not like a reader here, but as a book CONSUMER. A CONSUMER of books. Thanks you tons, marketing!
848292944	2.5 stars. True story: I've always liked to draw, and when I was a kid I loved the party game where people draws a random scribble on a piece of paper, and then you pass your scribble to someone else and they have to create a drawing based on your scribble: I totally ruled at this game, and am still willing to take on all comers.So, this book reminds me quite a bit of that game. The author found some bizarre vintage photos, mostly old circus pictures or early experiments in trick photography: . . . and decided to concoct a fantastical story around these photos, about children with strange powers and the evil people and creatures who want to take advantage of those powers. Also: time travel! Unfortunately it was all a lot more tedious than it might sound. The storyline and the writing struck me as very average, other than the vintage picture gimmick. And I didn't care for the unresolved ending that begs you to buy the sequel.This book originally caught my interest because it was one of the most requested books on PaperbackSwap--hundreds of requests on the wait list, I kid you not--but honestly, I'm glad I found a copy at the library rather than buying it or even using a PBS credit. I have no particular interest in reading the sequel. My advice is, save your money. The photos are far more interesting than the story. Middle graders will probably like it, but if you're older than 15, it's a crapshoot.
662132065	I was skeptical before reading this book as I'm not a lover of horror stories, but this is not a horror story. Sure it's creepy, but it is not a book that will give you nightmares or make it hard for you to fall asleep at night. Ransom Riggs has created a world within a world, a world for the different, peculiar. To say this book was what I expected would be an outright lie. This book was much more than I expected. It was a beautiful coming of age tale, filled with just the right amount of mysticism and creepiness. The characters were lovable and relatable, each with their own peculiar quirk. Reading this novel transported me to a whole different world, one I would love to be a part of. For that, I give it 5 gold stars, well deserved.
1372033191	I know my review isn't needed since there are tons that explain why Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children is not the best book out there.After I joined Goodreads, I saw this book in my feeds every so often. I came across it more and more on other book communities but was never interested in reading it. Then I heard of the movie adaptation. Of course, I checked out the book on Goodreads and wow over 600 000 ratings! I had no idea it was so popular! So naturally, I got the ebook and read it (eventually). I didn't expect to love it, to be honest. I just wanted to know why all the hype. I mean, I've read enough popular YA to know not to trust the famous books. But then again, nothing can be worst than Fallen.. And yes, I was right. This book wasn't. Spoilers, obviously. I saw the trailer first (still going to watch the movie, someday). It looked promising. I directly thought of X-men. In the past, I used to think of Shatter me the YA adaptation of X-men. But no folks, this one is.Let's start by saying I love horror (not the gore just the ghosty stuff). I never read horror books, though. So when I knew this book was creepy, I was interested (it's a young-adult so that's a plus). But where is the creepiness? I didn't even have the chills. I was bored. I thought about dropping it but maybe the end offered something special that deserved all love?? Nope. I tried to distract myself on social media. And I was never one for them. I just wanted to avoid reading it, still, I forced my way to the end.The events of this book happen during WWII and I love WWII stories. I try to buy these books so later have a shelf only for these novels. I knew some the events of Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children occur during this time so I was excited. However, it was done in the most cliche way possible. The Nazis were bombing the house (or how would it be obvious that the kids live in that period of time?). So stupid. Let's blame the bad guys every time just because!I'm still not sure if I want to give it 1 star or 2. I only 1 star the books I hate. However, this one didn't make me experience any emotion but boredom. Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children was boring, tedious, dull, slow, and I ran out of suitable synonyms.So now that I made it clear that the plot was tiresome with nothing special, let's move to the characters. The real disaster.I said YA a lot because this one shouldn't be considered as such. Or rather, shouldn't have been written as such. Because you see, it would have been better if it was a middle-grade (and I wouldn't have been interested enough to read it then). The main character, Jacob, is 16 yo. He acts like a 12 years old spoiled brat. I mean oh my parents are so rich and I don't want their money. Oh, my parents are trying to make me work in the future business I'll inherit. But I hate my life and I don't want to work at all so I' try my best to ruin the job. Oh, my parents don't believe I saw some abnormal stuff after my grandpa's death (i mean no, the natural answer that you're grieving isn't logical at all). Oh, my parents are those rich people who don't care about their son much. Oh, my parents make me the most miserable misunderstood kid on the planet. Oh, I have no friends. Ok, I think you get the idea. If Jacob was 14, I would've stomached his nagging. However, he isn't. I hate spoiled ungrateful rich kids. Look, if he said I want to earn my family's money by studying and making my own income in future, it'll be totally fine with it. But he just complained. As for the children, I knew everyone had his own ability and all but they were so uninteresting. After 2-3 days of reading the book, I honestly only remember Emma's name. They were a decor in the background. Just there. No development, we knew almost nothing of their former life. They don't even have a personality. They're just mentioned to fill the void. They were kids, in body and mind. You see, if kids were reliving the same day for 80 years, they should be more mature, less like kids. But from what I gathered (I might be wrong), their mental age stopped growing. Still, you'd expect them to be wiser, especially those in their teens but no. Now, Emma. The love interest. Let me correct it, the most disgusting love interest I ever came across. Emma was his grandfather's girlfriend. She's about 88 years old. And she's hitting on Jacob. And they kiss. He likes her. It's just gross. Eww.Let's move to the pictures idea. It was cool. The best thing about the book honestly. Too bad it was poorly executed. Emma is obviously not the same girl in all the photographs, the age difference is shown clearly which doesn't make sense. The author had this creative idea but didn't know how to handle. Let's just throw pictures here and there. Briefly, this book is overrated. It's slow, boring, with no memorable characters. It had a cool concept but badly executed. Needless to say, I'm not going to read the sequel.
1762241585	Young Jacob Portman was close to his grandfather, loving the stories his grandfather told of his childhood in Wales - the magically beautiful house, the other children ... and that they were all "peculiar." One could levitate; one was invisible, others had other talents. Jacob believed these stories until he was bullied about them at school when he was about 7, then announced he no longer believed in them and his grandfather never brought it up again.However, when Jacob is 16 he finds his grandfather horribly murdered - and sees something in the forest that haunts him. An evil-looking creature, just like those his grandfather used to describe from his youth - the monsters that drove Grandpa Portman from his home. Unable to resolve his feelings of guilt and grief, Jacob and his father travel to Wales to try to find the children's home, in hopes that finding it and talking to people from his grandfather's past he will be able to finally resolve his feelings.However, once in the small town on a Welsh island, few people know what he is talking about - finally he finds someone who has heard of the house and gives him directions, but he finds only a run-down, bombed out house that was apparently destroyed in World War II. While looking around, however, he finds a truck of pictures, which he shoves down the stairs in order to break into it. The floor actually breaks and the trunk falls into the basement, and while down there he hears the voices ... of children ...What happens next .. you'll have to find out for yourself. "Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children" is an amazing piece of magical reality, however, and I don't think you will end up being disappointed in reading it. One unusual thing about this book is the use of pictures throughout - something that isn't seen much in fiction anymore. These pictures document some of the people in the book.I highly recommend it and hope you will take my advice and buy this book - the sooner the better!
1471800535	Ένα παράξενα συγκινητικό βιβλίο που πραγματεύεται μια ιστορία φαντασίας με τόσο όμορφο τροπο που εύχεσαι να ειναι αληθινή. Σε όλο το βιβλίο κυρίαρχο συναίσθημα η αγάπη που κινεί τα νήματα και κάνει τις αποφάσεις ζωής ή θανάτου να μοιάζουν απίστευτα εύκολες και αναπόδραστες. Η αφοσίωση και η πίστη σε αξίες ξεπερνάει κάθε φαντασία και μαγεύει πραγματικά, με τροπο απλό και τραγικά αληθινό. Η αγωνία και η ένταση κυριαρχούν και επιβάλλουν τη δίκη τους τροπή στα γεγονότα που δεν ειναι σχεδόν ποτέ αναμενόμενα. Μια σειρά αποκαλύψεων εντυπωσιάζει τον αναγνώστη και ως την τελευταία σελίδα υπάρχει προσμονή και ελπίδα σωτηρίας για τον κόσμο των ασυνήθιστων πνευμάτων - των ξεχωριστών παιδιών της μις Πέρεγκρινπου τόσο έξοχα κερδίζουν τις καρδιές των συνηθισμένων ανθρώπων!!Καλή ανάγνωση!Πολλούς ασπασμούς!
614786249	4/9/2017Has it SERIOUSLY been almost four years since I've read this book??? I feel like I read it just yesterday, and it was as good today as it was yesterday. Ransom's writing is just so gorgeous and the structure and description is so exquisite that it makes me jealous. I read this for class, which just made it that much more intriguing to delve into. After reading the entire trilogy and then returning to the first book, it was definitely a fun experience. I highly, highly recommend this book because it's so masterfully done with the characters, description, and world-building. 6/17/2013Even though this was amazing i'm really creeped out. It's not scary, just the whole concept gave me heebie jeebies, especially when it says in the back that all the pictures are real
1648463623	Esperaba mucho mas, entretenido, pero para nada maravilloso
991825654	"I don't mean to be rude," I said, "but what are you people?""We're peculiar," he replied, sounding a bit puzzled. "Aren't you?" Someone really needs to have a word with the publisher's marketing department. The cover and blurb both suggest spooky happenings and a creepy gothic vibe, but in truth, Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children is... It's a superhero narrative, all right? It is a goddamn superhero story and unless they're secretly soul-sucking monsters in disguise, it is in no way gothic. The prose isn't gothic, the characters aren't gothic. It's a relatively simplistic middle-grade book that some guy up in Marketing decided to Stephen King-up in order to showcase the "vintage photo"element.That's the only thing interesting about the book. The photos, which are ham-fistedly crammed into the plot.Not to step on toes, but I get the feeling that Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children is written for a very particular audience. Suburban ten-year-old to tween boys with a taste for "adventure books." Not Harry Potter per say (because Miss Peregrine's has more of a male gaze thing going on), but toeing that line. Plus, Jacob is an altogether unsympathetic narrator. He's ungrateful, whiny, and walks around with a sliver spoon up his ass, then complains about it. Right from the get-go, when he was trying to get himself fired from the family business by acting like a jackass to the ordinary employees, I already knew we wouldn't get along. See, this is why I think it would appeal to suburban or middle-class-or-up kids more. Those in the lowest income brackets would sooner punch his teeth out than empathize with his privileged ass. He complains his parents don't care about him, but doesn't make much of an effort to connect with them in the first place. When danger threatens Miss Peregrine's orphanage, he doesn't take in consideration the Bird's pain or that she might have more important things to tend to, and bombards her with questions for his own satisfaction. There's also a reverse Twilight romance going on, which is weird to say the least. (view spoiler)[Jacob, babe, Emma used to date your grandfather. Those lips you're kissing once kissed your grandfather, and God knows where else. I doubt Emma really loves him. She's just transferred her feelings for Abe onto his grandson. She as good as proves it when she leaves his picture behind and saying she doesn't need it anymore. (hide spoiler)]I haven't watched the movie adaption, so I can't vouch for its quality. The source material, however, is mediocre and spectacularly dull. Just Google the photos online.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1722227743	Wow, schon ab den ersten Seiten hat mich dieses Buch gefesselt! Ich liebe den Schreibstil, die Charaktere, die Idee - Es war einfach grandios!!!
1589593089	With the upcoming release date of the movie, Miss Peregrine’s is once again in the spotlight. In all actuality, has it ever left? Spurring remakes, spin-offs and copy-cats galore, this novel is not the first of its kind but is certainly one of the more excellently executed that I’ve come across so far. I first read this novel a few years back, but decided to jump in for another dose before delving into the next edition to the series, and boy, am I glad I did! This was not only an explosive novel from a debut fiction author, but a sensational work in its own right as well! Yes, Quirk, the publisher, did a wonderful job of packaging and selling it, but this one could also stand on its own once unwrapped, and that’s refreshing. It was creative and bold, particularly for YA, which I basically never pick up.This is the tale of Jacob, a boy who, after years of hearing tales at his grandfather’s knee of peculiar children, feels that he has grown out of believing such nonsense. Until, that is, a family tragedy brings him to the coast of Wales where he stumbles upon the ruins of Miss Peregrine’s “home.” As he explores those dark corridors and seemingly long-abandoned rooms, he comes face to face with these children and is forever changed. Tinged with adventure, oddities, danger in the woods and a touch of supernatural, Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children is an anomaly on the shelves well-deserving of the title.We’ve all heard the old adage, “Don’t judge a book by its cover,” but this cover is exactly what originally drew me in! After a cursory glance at the cover and venturing to take a peek inside, I was immediately rewarded with a slew of sepia stills that quite literally chilled my soul and peaked my interests to the point of near obsession. Immediately, the book was bought, and that’s a pretty tall order for me; I don’t attract easily to the nicely packaged big read of the moment anymore. (In fact, oft times, that fact is a repellent.) What Ransom Riggs did here was not a first, but was most certainly innovative and, ultimately, visionary. This work took creativity of mind and spirit that all cannot boast; it took an idea and turned it into a journey with a cast of delightful characters who tickled and tricked both the reader and themselves in that enthralling way that children do. The orphans themselves were the star of this work, as I’m sure they were meant to be, and their numerous powers and personal oddities made them simultaneously creepy and intriguing, empathetic and entertaining, because they still displayed all of the quirks that children do, the naughtiness and teasing, the reprimand and need to seek comfort and family in each other.The novel started out in a way that made me curious, because it started with a story at Grandpa’s knee. Classic, but where would this take me? Yet, honestly, it was the brilliant and chilling display of photojournalism that made this one such a pleasure. A grand sommelier couldn’t have paired the photos better, I tell you, because there were moments when the combination was just unnerving enough to make me pause…for more than a few seconds. And Riggs’ use of vivid imagination was perfectly paired with those wild imaginings of a child or pre-teen’s, making the world that he crafted wholly believable and enchanting. Mind you, this isn’t the YA novel for your grandma’s generation. The backdrop of social strife in the real world that hovered outside of Peregrine’s island added another layer, which made this read both suitable for adults and literarily elevated for young readers. Here you’ll find the appropriate level of adult swagger, as the kids today have, when they say things like:“Were you just smoking and chewing tobacco at the same time?” “What are you, my mom?” “Do I look like I blow truckers for foodstamps?”That made it all the more realistic, because our little sisters, brothers, nieces and nephews would certainly say that to one another today, making this one altogether enjoyable for all ages (well, above 11 or so, depending on the maturity level). The only qualm that I had with this one was the ending. In the interest of avoiding spoilers, I’ll leave that one there. Let’s just say I’m glad this one has a continuation and even more glad it’ll have its shot at the ole’ silver screen. 4 stars. ****FOLLOW ME HERE:Art + Deco Agency Book Blog | Twitter | Instagram | Art + Deco Publishing Agency
277801263	Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children is an entertaining, different and very well-put-together novel and an all-around great introduction to a new author. The story is a sort-of Science Fiction/Horror/Fantasy all rolled into one and is told to great effect using mostly authentic old photographs to supplement the story by providing amazing visuals of the "peculiar" people and events of the story. It makes me wonder if the author created his story to fit the photos that he and other collectors had found or if he wrote his story and found the right pictures to fit (or some combination of the two.) Either way it made for a fascinating and fast-paced novel that I found extremely difficult to put down and I eagerly await a sequel so that I can further follow the adventures of these "Peculiar Children."In terms of style, the main character and feel of the book were a bit reminiscent of Joe Hill's recent novel Horns and the style of the book did bring to mind Brian Selznick's The Invention of Hugo Cabret. However the book itself is not in any way a copy of these two works or any other. It is a wonderfully unique story and presentation that brings the characters to life in a way that most other novels do not.I highly recommend Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children.
1771845386	REVIEW TO COME TODAY.*THIS REVIEW CONTAINS MILD SPOILER*this book had been sitting on my shelf for months (I don't exactly remember when I ordered it) but I do remember after it arrived at my home, I didn't instantly read it because I wasn't in the mood to read this book and I was also afraid because that time I had high expectation for this book, so I decided not to read it that time and the time I was in the mood for reading it came few weeks ago and my expectation was not high anymore so I thought I would enjoy it and I was right, I enjoyed it but I found something that prevent me to give this book 4 stars and these are the reasons why I gave this book 3 stars : The Characters the only character I liked was Millard Nullings because he could make me smile and laugh and I really really liked him but he was just the only one and the rest of the characters were plain and boring. I don't even know why I didn't feel connected to Jacob or Emma or anyone and I was also having a hard time to remember all the characters names and In the end I still didn't remember their names. The only names I remember are few, those are : - Millard ( obviously because I liked him so much )- Jacob ( he's the main character so yeah I still could remember him very well )- Miss Peregrine - Emma ( this girl was quite annoying, so it was easy to remember her )- Dr. Golan I think that's all ... and I tried to remember all the characters especially all the peculiars but I somehow just couldn't remember them but basically the main problem was just I couldn't connect to any of the characters ( except Millard ). The Romance I didn't like the romance at all, I felt the romance was like forced to happen and it was also ... weird.I mean how could Jacob kiss Emma?! she used to have special relationship with Abe and Abe was Jacob's grandfather and there was this scene where Miss Peregrine said "When Abraham left to fight in the war, he took all our hearts with him, but Miss Bloom's especially. Yes, they were admirers, paramours, sweethearts." and Jacob already knew that Emma used to have special relationship but that didn't stop him from liking her. it's okay if he liked her in just friend way but he didn't like Emma that way and Emma also liked him. isn't that weird for Emma and Jacob? I know Emma should move on but not with Abe's grandchild! that's ... it just doesn't seem right in my opinion and this romance was kind of Insta-Love and Insta-Love was one of my bookish pet peeves and there was one scene that made me very very uncomfortable. And then we were kissing. The profoundness of our lips touching and our tongues pressing and my hand cupping her perfect white cheek barred any thoughts of right or wrong or any memory of why I had followed her there in the first place. ... at this scene I was like and the only thing that made me give this book 3 stars was only The Plot/The Story just like I said my expectation was low when I finally read this book and I think the story or the plot was better than my expectation so I quite enjoyed it but there were too much talking and not enough action scenes and I even skimmed reading it when I was about to reach the end of the book because it was boring but I still managed to understand the ending and this was the only thing that made me give this book 3 stars and well maybe there was also a little bit extra star because I liked Millard but I don't think I'll read the sequel because I just don't really care about this story anymore. thank you guys for reading and liking this review. I hope you all have a great day! *hugs*
4782395217	This book is so insanely popular, and whilst it is not without merit, I think it’s totally underserving of the amount of hype it has received. Now let me explain: the idea of combining words and photographs to tell a story is undeniably original and clever, and here the distorted black and white snaps fit the eery gothic vibe of the narrative. They work well together but ultimately become a little problematic. At times, it felt like the story was pushed to breaking point as the narrative was twisted around the photographs. It’s almost like the photo dictated where the story was going, and the events were stretched around it. There were a few instances where this was particularly bad, and it gave the direction of the writing a totally random feel. It was bizarre. If you take the photographs out of the book, and leave the writing as it is, ultimately, we are left with an average young adult story about escapism with very poor characterisation. There are other books that deal with this theme much better; thus, this would no doubt become a little lost in the saturated market. The photographs are the unique selling point, and without them the book would flounder. My point here is that the writing is quite weak and by itself would not be strong enough to carry the story. I find this a little problematic: the writing should be enhanced by the photographs, not become completely reliant on them. I do think this is a creative and remarkable way to tell a story but ultimately the execution was a little poor. I don’t think Riggs’ prose was quite up to scratch nor his ability to give his characters any real depth. It felt amateurish, difficult to get into and the story did not work for me. For me this book is a curiosity, nothing more. ___________________________________You can connect with me on social media via My Linktree.__________________________________
1938898285	I quite enjoyed this unique and quirky story. Sometimes books like this quickly lose my interest because they become so unrealistically weird that it feels like the author is trying too hard. In this one, the weirdness and mystery occurred at just the right pace.It was definitely not the story I was expecting. If you ever judge books by covers or titles, I can guarantee you will not be correct with this one. For a YA novel, it was very creative and presented itself well as the first book in a series. I am looking forward to the next one!As I was nearing the end of this, I was looking through some reviews and saw some complaints of boredom and a few DNFs. I can honestly say I did not get that at all. While the plot was quite often far fetched, I at no point found it slow, boring, or that I wished to quit. I didn't even have to give it a chance - I enjoyed it right from the beginning. If you like mysterious YA, check this out. But, remember those who DNFed - you may end up agreeing with them instead of me!
1101188873	This is my second time reading this book and I enjoyed it even more than the first time I read it. In fact, I absolutely freaking loved it! It's such an interesting and original concept, I've really never read anything quite like it before. I'm always a fan of time travel and this book presents it in such a unique way that I couldn't help but I adore it. Each of the characters is awesome in their own way and you can't help but become attached to them and invested in their future. And the photos are just spectacular and add the perfect spooky touch! It almost makes you feel like the story is real and I adored it. I really can't say enough good things about this book and I can't wait to continue with my reread!
171422433	Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children is a beautiful work of art and the first novel by Ransom Riggs. Sadly, I didn’t love it nearly as much as I wanted to, and am still feeling conflicted by it. What this book has going for it is that it is strikingly beautiful. The cover features a super creepy old black and white photo of a levitating little girl, the title printed in a lovely font, and doodles which are reminiscent of tombstone art from Victorian era cemeteries. Inside, this book is just as aesthetically pleasing. The inside cover is a brown and beige design which brings to mind gloomy Victorian wall paper, the actual pages are a thick paper and decorated at the bottom with little brown scrolls. And of course there are the pictures. This novel is filled with wonderfully disturbing and bizarre old black and white photos which complement the narrative. These old photos are all taken from private collections and I applaud Ransom Riggs’s ability to construct a story around so many odd images. Where this book failed is that I don’t believe quite as much attention to detail was involved in the actual telling of this tale as was put into the presenting of it. Yes, this book is visually striking. But after a strong beginning, the story falls a little flat. Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children features sixteen year old Jacob Portman, who is just starting to wonder if there is some truth to the crazy stories his grandpa has told him his entire life. Stories of strange birds, monsters and, of course peculiar children living together in an orphanage on a tiny island off the coast of Wales. My discontent for this story stems from the fact that while it appears to be a young adult book, it is written as more of a book for older children. Or maybe it is because I am a girl used to the angst and the drama, and this mystery is also an action story written by a male author. Either way, this book has a lack of character development, insight, and emotions. The peculiar children here are defined by their oddities, rather than their personalities. Jacob spends a considerable amount of time with children who are considerably younger than him (grade school and middle school age) and the interactions aren’t any different than when he is spending time with adults or other teens. A sweaty, hormonal, impatient sixteen year old boy should have a big brother complex, a power complex, or some reaction to spending time with younger kids, but Jacob does not. Jacob himself should be an interesting kid to read about. He is a bit of a loner, doesn’t have any friends and has (predictably) emotionally absent parents. Yet, we don’t see him struggle with his own oddness or social issues. When adversity strikes, Jacob steps up to the plate just like any other heroic YA hero. Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children isn’t a bad story. Not by any means. It’s a decent story in an eye-catching book and features a new paranormal world that will surely fascinate tons of people. However, all of the attention put to the looks, the plot and the action left the characters to suffer. Plus, there is one major issue with the fantasy aspect that was never explained and that itself bothered me more than anything else. If you don’t mind a small spoiler, go ahead and read (this is something that becomes introduced around page 150) (view spoiler)[So, there are time loops which can keep people living the same day over and over again. Say you and I are in the loop, we know about it, but no one else does. That means for twenty four hours we can do whatever, say whatever, go wherever we want and when the loop resets the people we have interacted with start over and forget what has happened. My question is this; if children are caught in the loop do they remain children? Do they grow up? The children Jacob meets are in this loop, so either he is interacting with kids who have never grown. Or he is interacting with very elderly people living in the body of children. But we will never know because, as I said, Riggs has chosen to define the children by their peculiarities. They don’t have actual personalities. (hide spoiler)]It’s doubtful that I will read the next in this series. I am however eagerly anticipating Ransom Riggs book of found photographs, Talking Pictures,which will be released next year. His writing style is not for me, but he (apparently) has an amazing collection of found photos.
1050147367	Everything about this book was brilliant and unique! I was hesitant to read it as I'd heard it was slow and boring but I didn't think that at all! The story was completely gripping and I got lost in the book.My favourite thing about this book has to be the use of photos as it made it all feel so real! The concept was fantastic and I fell in love with the writing style straight away! The characters were all incredible and I couldn't help but fall in love with them all, they're just so fascinating!I need to read the next one as soon as possible! Also, the fact that it's going to be made into a movie directed by Tim burton makes me so excited because I feel like it has potential to be such a great yet creepy film!!
1670080782	WARNING: unmarked spoilers. EDIT 02/12/16: took this from three stars to two because I can't stop thinking about how disturbed and annoyed I got while reading this book. “But why did the monsters want to hurt you?” I asked.“Because we weren’t like other people. We were peculiar." Hype is something I try not to buy into when I read books, however, with Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children I chose to. Which was a mistake. Maybe if I hadn't read more into the hype - watching countless booktube videos and getting excited for the movie - I may have enjoyed this book. The premise for this book was alluring and interesting. It may be a common book idea, but I had never read anything like this. I didn't know a lot, but the story line was incredibly slow. By slow, I mean nothing happens for 80% of the book and we're told a collection of incredibly obvious facts. I figure this is a children's book, so that may be necessary. The plot line of children being stuck in a loop of the same day before they died was incredibly interesting, the fact that the children had not aged a day was also interesting. I had a lot of questions, those were thankfully answered. So, I can't critique the author on his brilliant writing style and overall beautifulness of the writing style. I would, however, critique him on the fact the antagonist was obvious - at least to me. Part of the reason this book was incredibly slow is I believe that Jacob was an incredibly dull character and person. He didn't have much of a personality in my opinion apart from being curious and dutifully rude. I understand that no one in his town liked him and his parents liked to flaunt their wealth, but for some reason, Jacob had absolutely no personality that would distinguish him from another character I had read. The other characters, such as Enoch, Millard, Horace, Bronwyn had a lot more personality. Maybe it was because their peculiar powers were interesting. Jacob's power, however, seemed very Bella Swan turned vampire - dumb. Now, don't get me even started on the romance. This is a complete spoiler, but oh well. Emma dated Jacob's grandfather, who passed away in the beginning of the book. The romance follows Emma and Jacob. Emma who dated Jacob's grandfather. Jacob even mentions briefly it could be considered incest. I mean, it's not, but I'm incredibly uncomfortable by the mere idea of someone dating their grandfather's ex - even if she hasn't aged a day. She held a flame for the grandfather for so many years, but Jacob and Emma still kissed. The mere thought of that makes me shiver. The idea of dating one of my mum's ex's makes me want to crawl up in myself and die, so I can only imagine what was going through these characters minds. Don't even get me started on Emma. I expected so much more from her character. I expected her to be this kickass girl and just overall great, since everyone loves her so much. I was completely disappointed by the lack of anything she gave. She was as boring as Jacob, constantly mourning the fact that the grandfather had left. I don't know, she just rubbed me the wrong way. She was incredibly judgemental as well, which didn't sit too well with me. “You’re invisible,” I replied dumbly.“Indeed. Millard Nullings, at your service.”“Don’t tell him your name!” the girl cried.“And this is Emma,” he continued. “She’s a bit paranoid, as I’m sure you’ve gathered.” The book also holds YA tropes such as the uninvolved parents, who don't see to care for their son in the slightest. They're also rich so he can afford to jet off to an island off the coast of Wales in order to find out more about his grandfather. The ending where Jacob actually chooses to join the world of loops was ridiculous. I can only imagine trying to tell my mum "hey, I'm going to go join the peculiar world, don't worry I'm safe. Maybe, I'll probably die. But, hey, you'll never see me again". Yeah, that would go down an absolute treat. However, Jacob's father just claims he needs a nap. Overall, Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children wasn't a bad book. It was interesting and filled with photos which had been collected at fleet markets. I had simply bought into the hype and was let down by the fact it didn't actually live up to the standards I had created in my mind. I may continue this series, but for now it is not at the forefront of my TBR. I will, however, see the movie.
1582731344	When I started this book I thought it would be for a young age group but I was pleasantly surprised it wasn't, while I feel the story was extremely slow to start off with it picks up and keeps your attention throughout. With some seriously creepy photos chucked in amongst the pages, it actually gives you a hint to why Tim Burton has the honour of adapting this into a movie.Jacob has grown up with his grandad's ghoulish war stories of monsters and beasts and peculiar children that are very interesting, but how much is truth and how much is fiction? When Jacob goes to the little mysterious island off the coast of Whales he's not sure of what he's looking for or what he will find until he stumbles into the old abandoned orphanage which is partly ruined and no one has lived there from 1940.. so why has his grandfather received a letter from here only fifteen years ago? It's oh so strange and very peculiar indeed.The story reminds me of my grandma's sister Betty when she would come up from London, I used to make her tell me stories all the time about a parrot brooch she had since the second world war and how it came to life and kept them safe even when my grandad was kept captive in the jungle and returned home safe. I loved all these weird and wonderful stories she had to tell while my gran tut and tatted and would mumble how these stories were nonsense but it never made much difference to me, I always loved hearing them and I wonder if that is why I got so wrapped up in the book as it reminded me of when I was only young listening to these stories which were really wartime stories just wrapped in cotton wool for kids. The book is pretty dark at times in no way is it all glitter and light which I really enjoyed also, it has me extremely excited for the movie!The book has been well planned and really thought out, I enjoyed Riggs writing and how it all gelled together his twists and turns had you guessing throughout the book and you never really knew where it was going. The loop was an excellent idea and it really got me thinking, would I like to be a child for all they years? never growing up? stuck there? I don't think I would. I loved all the peculiar children they all added their own little spice to the book and I really enjoyed each of their peculiar traits. I really do recommend this book, especially if you love Tim Burton movies as Riggs writing has this similar sparkle to it that captivates you and leaves you wanting more. three and a half stars!Check out my blog www.amandaminnockx.tumblr.com thanks! "I don't mean to be rude," I said, but what are you people?" "We're peculiar," he replied, sounding a bit puzzled. "Aren't you?"
2384809000	This book was immensely enjoyable - something that for ya fiction is becoming less of an occurrence for me. On a side note Millard is my favourite character and is god damn hilarious!!Here we meet Jacob; whose Grandfather told fantastical stories all his life about the monsters and the time of his youth. After his passing (no spoiler at all) Jacob becomes obsessed with the clues he left behind - until he stumbled upon the answers he never thought he’d find.This book is incredibly witty, well written and the story comes along and steals your imagination without you even realising it!
242877956	Tossing up between 3 or 3.5 stars for this. It was enjoyable however I found it super predictable (totally called the bad guy too)
989250086	i am so glad it is not the early 2010s anymore.this may seem like a hot take, considering the world is considerably more on fire than it ever was between the years of 2010 and 2013, but let me explain: it does not matter how horrible everything around me is if the books i can use to ignore everything are good.books in that era simply did not hit.i've said it before and i'll say it again: all we had to work with was a knockoff of a dystopian chosen one story and paranormal romance so terrible it almost turned the corner and became good again.and then whatever this is.i love a book with images, sure, except that if you pair a meh read with some truly stellar photos it only makes the meh of the words look meh-er. and this book's okayness simply cannot stand in the face of spooky old-timey images of kids doing weird magic sh*t.almost no book can, to be fair. but this one is not even close. part of a series i'm doing in which i review books i read a long time ago and we all get to feel good about how books are better now, basically
2177718995	"...so one day my mother sat me down and explained that I couldn't become an explorer because everything in the world had already been discovered. I'd been born in the wrong century, and I felt cheated."I listened to this via audiobook while looking up the images throughout the novel. Note: audiobook Emma's voice grated so, so much on my ears that it almost ruined the book. Picture the most screechy, cockney accent you've ever heard. Now double it.The initial impression is that this will be a scary novel - with creepy children and terrifying monsters. We get a bit of the monsters when Jacob first meets the THING but not much other than that. The images were far spookier than the actual novel.Enter Jacob - rich white boy who works at his uncle's store. He screams privilege (actively trying to get fired because he doesn't want to work) and his aloof parents provide the gentle neglect that makes leaving them for an adventure far easier than you'd expect. Jacob comes off as extremely unlikeable in the first few chapters but he grows on you.His grandfather - who always told wild and crazy stories about Peculiar children - dies, leaving Jacob in despair and seeking answers from the one cryptic clue passed down. Jacob goes in search for the truth and gets more than he bargained for.Emma and the other Peculiar Children provide a much needed sense of adventure and fantasy - allowing Jacob to grow and develop from his initial flatness. Emma is by far the most developed and I enjoyed that (for once) the girl is stronger in every which way in comparison to the lead. And Jacob, despite being a bit of a snot in the beginning, learns to feel and care for his very peculiar friends. Note on the movie: : This is something to be avoided if you want to stay true to the books. The first half follows pretty well but after that, the directors go off on their own path. In addition, Emma no longer has fire, instead she has the much more delicate/feminine power of flight while Olive (who in the book, could float) is now full fire.Audiobook CommentsRead by Jesse Bernstein and while it was mostly a good audio...every time Emma opened her cockney mouth, I wanted to strangle her. That accent. My nerves. Ugh.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
1077852235	2014 F.A.B. Bookclub pick # I.❤️. F.A.B.
1781105775	Having already seen the movie, I'm guessing there isn't going to be two more because of how they wrapped it up.
1536519944	3,5 stars! I really liked this book!Gloomy and spirit-lifting at the same time!This kind of book is right up my alley and the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because I didn't like the main character: Jacob. Even though he improves towards the end of the book (seeing finally the light at the end of the tunnel) there were many things that annoyed me. Bearing in mind that this is YA, I find it deeply disturbing that young people may read about and idolize an utterly ungrateful spoiled teenager who grows up in a rich family with 2 decent parents and deliberately does everything in his power to get himself fired. His insolent behavior towards almost everyone and his parent in particular is what made me pause my reading at times and wonder: How am I supposed to identify with this little sh*t?? Fortunately around page 120 the book becomes very interesting, as more pleasurable characters appear and I completely forget about the little idiot. That's when I start to feel I am part of the story. I tread the same paths he does, see the same extraordinary places he sees, meet and talk to the peculiar people he meets. What I loved in this book (and I will so poorly attempt to explain in this review) is that whenever I read a book I almost always visualize what I read. The places, the people, whole scenes play out in my head. However, there come moments when I cannot fully picture in my mind what I am reading and other moments when I just wish there was a picture in the book or even a drawing so I could see how beautiful the character is, how big and ferocious the dragon is or even how surprised the detective is when they finally figure out the identity of the killer. Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children is the only book I have ever read (besides graphic novels) that catered to my wish. By the way if anyone can recommend other books accompanied by a collection of pictures I would really appreciate it.The collection of the vintage photographs was simply beautiful! They created an eerie atmosphere and made me want to keep reading in order to find out more about these mysterious people and their well-kept secrets. I was very glad that most of my questions were answered though I spotted a few forgivable flaws in the plot. I also loved the quality of the book. I don't know if it's just my copy but I really loved the velvety smoothness of its thick pages, the page borders, the fully coloured pages containing the photos. Last but not least I would like to congratulate the author for venturing to precariously walk on thin ice and do something many writers would choose to avoid. He wanted the photos to be included in the plot no matter what, risking this way writing messy nonsense which couldn't possibly fit in the plot. Nevertheless, he manages to smoothly integrate the visual material in his storytelling (as I read at the end of the book he had already found the photos when he came up with the story) and share with us his version of the story of these anonymous people whose names we will never get to know. Beautiful prose and skillful description. The premise is excellent and I never got bored even though it takes more than a 100 pages to read about the cool stuff. I will definitely try the second book "Hollow city".
1982031016	Was soll ich sagen? Wer meine Leseupdates hierzu verfolgt hat wird schon wissen, dass ich so meine Schwierigkeiten mit dem Buch hatte. Und auch jetzt wo ich es endlich beendet habe muss ich sagen, dass ich enttäuscht bin weil ich einfach etwas anderes erwartet hatte: und zwar eine spannende Geschichte rund um Kinder mit X-Men-mäßigen Fähigkeiten. Nur leider kam bei mir null Spannung auf und man lernt die Kinder in diesem Teil zumindest gar nicht näher kennen, was ich mir aber von einem ersten Band eigentlich erwarte, dass ich die Protagonisten kennenlerne. Außerdem fand ich die Liebesgeschichte total seltsam und auch unnötig für den Verlauf der restlichen Geschichte. Hätte man sich sparen können. Die drei Sterne bekommt das Buch auch nur weil ich die Idee nach wie vor toll finde und vor allem auch mal neu und anders, genau wie die liebevolle Aufmachung mit den alten Fotos. Ich weiß trotzdem nicht, ob ich diese Reihe weiterverfolgen werde, da ich auch schon von einigen gehört hab, dass es nicht besser wird, was den Spannungsbogen der Geschichte angeht...
994870531	This was a very fun and peculiar read. The beginning was very interesting, with Jacob finding his way to the orphanage and exploring it. I found it very gripping and the atmosphere was exactly what I was hoping for. Creepy!The photos were a wonderful addition to the book, vintage looking and creepy. I have always loved looking through old photo albums, discovering the stories behind each picture. So, I had a lot of fun with these pictures. I couldn’t wait to discover a new one, examining them closely and looking for hidden clues.The story did remind me of X-Men, but that didn’t really bother me. After all, most stories borrow ideas from other ones. But the story felt a little disjointed, sometimes slow and repetitive, with Jacob going from one place to another and sometimes I found the story that gripping I couldn’t stop reading.The plot was rather predictable and nothing special. Once again the children do what they are not supposed to! Yeah, I saw that coming from miles away.I liked the children, but I wish there had been more character development. Jacob started as a slightly annoying character but I grew fond of him as his character developed. His character growth was quite nice.The romance… well, I don’t really get it when a very matured and experienced person falls in love with a very young and inexperienced one. Immortal beings falling in love with teenage people has always been rather hard for me to understand. On the other hand, I do believe that the heart and soul is always young and it’s the body that ages, so it might be possible for two people with a very wide age gap between them to fall in love. Anyway, some people find it weird that Jacob falls in love (view spoiler)[ with a girl who used to love his grandfather, but that didn’t really bother me either. Yeah, it’s weird but seriously, the poor girl has been on her own for decades. People are allowed to move on and find love in some place new, even if it’s a little too close for comfort. And Jacob is a young teenage boy with hormones out of control. So considering the circumstances, I don’t really get Emma’s love for Jacob, an 80-year-old in love with a 16-year-old, but I do get Jacob loving Emma, despite knowing this woman used to be in love with his grandfather. (hide spoiler)]Overall, I enjoyed this story. I was expecting something really scary and creepy and less than half of the book lived up to my expectations. So, don’t start this book expecting a horror story, this is a fantasy! A fun and peculiar fantasy.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
198142456	Visually this book is easily 5 stars, but in reality it is like a beautiful airheaded woman. The photography is amazing especially considering it is real, but the plot is weak. This book sold itself as a creepy, quirky ride, but sadly it never reached the heebie jeebie level it promised. The photographs while beautiful and odd were used as too much of a crutch within the book, depended on too much. Instead of being supplemental to the plot, they were the only glue holding the rest of it all together. The main character is supposed to be 17 but instead comes off as a preteen, but that wasn't all that surprising considering all the rest of the characters were elementary aged children. It does make sense that he would act their age when surrounded by them. The plot had so many holes (view spoiler)[ like why wasn't Victor decaying? How the hell did he die? And what was up with the village raids??? Let the kids be monsters - who cares, the villagers won't even remember tomorrow! And if is the same day over and over are they eating the same meals every day? How are they getting food since the growing season would be stagnant? I had TONS of these types of questions. (hide spoiler)] Plus the ending wasn't an ending at all - it was such a childish way of thinking at the end despite the MC being 17, and I was amazed by his train of thought.Someone else suggested listening to the audio book so you wouldn't have the benefit of the photos to make the book seem better, but wow that just sounds like torture to me! Just take my word for it - skip this one no matter how pretty the pictures are.
782706864	A re-read for me. Round two…did I love it more than the first read? No but it was still entertaining. Pure escapism! This book is the type of book I would have loved as a teenager, fabulously strange but with a smacking bit of robust adventure thrown in. However it is over hyped for what it delivers overall. I wanted super weird, spooky and kooky and it doesn't quite make it.Some parts of the book strangely reminded me of Enid Blyton's "The Famous Five" books, really nothing like them but the camaraderie and friendship between the children was similar. The bond they have with each other is strong.It's not quite as peculiar a book, nor as creepy scary as I thought it would be but it's still highly entertaining, I loved the concept of the old photographs in the book, they were an unusual touch, but they worked well. I found the first 100 pages a bit slow but enjoyed it from that point, I didn't expect the storyline to be what it was. I was endeared to many of the "peculiars", they were all quite unique. I think that aspect could have been expanded on too.I just think it's one of those books that will be read for years and years to come, it's not perfect but fabulous if you fancy some escapism and don't want to feel guilty about it, you may like this one.Be wary of anyone missing pupils in their eyes, I know I'll be looking for them in the crowds, you have been forewarned. 3.5 stars from me!Thanks so much for reading my review! Feel free to follow me for more reviews or send me a friend request.
1626573637	DNF I am really tired of posting DNF full reviews. So I've decided to type a mini one. The reason I didn't finish this is because this book felt like a mess. You have these really creepy pictures and witty dialogue. It didn't really mix. This book is supposed to be a creepy book but it never felt that way while I was reading it. Interesting fact that pictures are real. I've rated it 2 stars because the premise sounds interesting. I do still recommend it to fantasy fans. As there is an original premise regarding the fantasy aspect.
1478779058	This is my Book Of the Month- September 2016, with GR group- A Little Bit Of This, Category:Val's BOTM.This has been on my shelf for sometime now and I have delayed picking it up because of the mixed reviews. The movie is releasing soon and it was selected as a group read so, what better time to pick it up! The things that I found fascinating in this book: The book has a very vintage feel to it. I liked the overall atmosphere of mystery and the little bit of sinister feel at times created in this story.The authentic vintage pictures really added to the story and heightened my reading experience. I think the author did a really good job of taking regular old pictures and adding fantasy elements to it!Miss. Peregrine's world is interesting but I am really not sure if I would want to be stuck in it. "It was just so hypnotizingly pleasant that it might take a person years to notice, and by then it would be too late; leaving would be too dangerous. So it's not even a decision, really. You stay. It's only later- years later- that you begin to wonder what might've happened if you hadn't." The whole experience that Jacob goes through in his home-town and then on the island was well written and there are times you feel as confused as Jacob is. "I'd finally be able to put my grandfather's mystery to rest and get on with my unextraordinary life, anything I had to endure would be worth it." The things that I found NOT SO fascinating in this book: We are introduced to Miss.Peregrine's world only after half of the book is over. It would have been better if the family drama would have been cut short and this bit was introduced earlier.The reveal at the end (view spoiler)[The psychiatrist being thewight (hide spoiler)] was just a bit cliché.At the end we have this scene where there is lot of action but somehow I felt I am reading a children's book (something that is out of Famous Five or Hardy Boys). It was not gripping enough.All things said I will be reading the sequel and I hope it carries the story forward in a good direction.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1757198832	[3,5/5]¡¡Yo quería amarte, Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children!! De verdad, lo intenté, pero tenía el hype tan arriba y tú eras taaaaaaaaaaaaan lento que lo nuestro nunca terminó de funcionar. Lo lamento.Acabado el drama...Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children nos cuenta la historia de Jacob, un chico cuyo abuelo le ha contado historias sobre la Segunda Guerra Mundial, sobre niños peculiares con poderes extraños y sobre monstruos desde que era muy pequeño. Jacob creía esas historias, hasta que creció y vio que toda su familia decía que eran tonterías y que incluso las fotos que le enseñaba estaban trucadas. Así, el chico empezó a pensar que su abuelo estaba loco, que la Guerra lo había dejado mal y que sólo quería llamar la atención... hasta que, un día, vio cómo lo asesinaba un monstruo. A partir de ese momento, el mundo de Jacob cambia. Se siente culpable por no haberle creído a su abuelo, por no haberlo protegido, por haberlo dejado morir. Y es que las historias que le contaba su abuelo vuelven a la superficie de su mente y Jacob empieza a ver retazos que debe unir, pistas que debe descifrar. Siente que la misión de su vida debe ser encontrar un tal hogar para niños peculiares en el que su abuelo vivió durante la Guerra. Así, ante la mirada escéptica de sus padres y la aprobación de su psiquiatra, Jake se embarca en un viaje que lo llevará a una islita perdida de Gales en la que buscará los orígenes de las historias que le contaba su abuelo. Jake no sólo descubrirá que hay mundos enteros escondidos a los ojos de los humanos, sino que los monstruos son reales y ahora buscan venganza. ¿Mi principal problema con este libro? Su ritmo lento y los capítulos larguísimos. Por supuesto, todo coge un poco más de ritmo cuando empezamos a conocer a los Peculiares. Aunque esa parte es un poco confusa porque son un montón de chicos con poderes diferentes que cuesta un tiempo asimilar. Bronwyn, Emma, Olive, Millard, Enoch... La mismísima Miss Peregrine, que hace parte de una especie a la que se llama las ymbrynes. Y todo tiene su propia ciencia, su propia lógica de cómo funcionan sus poderes, cómo crea los bucles temporales y qué reglas deben seguir quienes están amparados/atrapados en uno. Siento que, para mí, fue un poco complejo enterarme bien de cuál era la gran disputa entre las ymbrynes y los monstruos, los Hollow. Vamos, que sigo sin enterarme bien del todo, jajaja. ¿Qué me gustó muchísimo del libro? El contraste que se ve entre el mundo real de donde viene Jacob y el loop en el que viven los Peculiares. ¿Qué me pareció rarísimo? La proyección de sentimientos que noto de Emma a Jacob. ¿Qué hizo que terminara el libro además de que nunca dejo un libro empezado? El sentido del humor que flotaba entre Emma y Jacob. Ese tira y afloja, el coqueteo y los comentarios graciosos para picarse el uno al otro hacían que los capítulos eternos y lentos valieran la pena. ¿Voy a leer el siguiente libro? ¡Por supuesto! El final, aunque un poco precipitado, te deja en el borde de tu asiento, así que necesito saber qué va a ser de la vida de Jacob y los Peculiares ahora que las circunstancias han cambiado y se han revelado todos los entresijos que vienen tejiéndose desde que el abuelo de Jacob era un chico.
1299012793	I went into this book totally blind; I had no idea what this book was about. I could tell by the title that it would be a bit spooky, and that was enough for me. I am so glad that I did pick this up. First off, if you don't already know, Miss Peregrine's is laced throughout with vintage photos to help illustrate the story. I absolutely loved this, and it really added another level to the story. When I was younger, we used to try and make up background stories for old pictures, or for strangers on the street. It's almost like Ransom Riggs was taking a creative story class, was handed a pile of old photos, and told to create a story to tie them all together, And it really worked, the photos are worked in almost seamlessly. Another thing I loved was the fact that the main character reveals important details at the right time. A character would tell him to look out for anything weird, and he would be like, you know, I did notice such and such. In a lot of stories, he would have "forgot" or chose not to mention that and it would bit him in the bottom later. The story continued to have mystery and untold secrets without having to use lack of communication as a plot device. I thoroughly enjoyed the characters in this book! There was such an odd assortment of bizarre individuals, and they really add to the eery feeling of this book. There's an invisible boy, a girl who can make fire, a boy who can reanimate the dead, a girl, a girl who has a mouth on the back of her head, a boy who has bees living inside him. There's also antagonists with tentacles coming from their mouths, or pupil-less eyeballs. It's like the making of some sort of sideshow, but we get to see that they aren't that much different than anyone else, deep down. If you're looking for a book full of intrigue, mystery, strange characters, a bit of history, and some creepy monsters, look no further. This book was not only a great story, but it was also very visually appealing.
2673758345	I know I am extremely late in reading this, but after reading all the reviews for the latest book in the series, at the end of last year, I asked for the set for Christmas. In the first book, Ransom Riggs builds a wonderfully mysterious world.From a young age Jacob remembers listening to his Grandfather’s stories and strange tales of growing up in an orphanage during WWII. After a family tragedy, Jacob travels with his father to Wales ......... to be more exact, a tiny island off the coast. Here, the story takes a magical turn, when Jacob finds the bombed out ruin of Miss Peregrine’s orphanage in a isolated spot on the island. Here Jacob hopes he can solve the mystery around his grandfather’s stories. The vintage photographs add a wonderful dimension to the story. It was interesting to read from the author that almost all of the photographs are real and they are from people’s own collections .... a unique idea and for me the highlight of the book. On to Hollow City, book two!
1728682938	It was unique and delightful.
248917336	** spoiler alert ** I know this book is sold as YA/teen, but the only thing that places it in that category is the ages of the main characters. The writing style, the tempo, a deliberate killing in the course of the story, the behavior of the townsfolk, all read definitely adult to me. I also expected the children to be less normal and more eerie in the tone of the photos when we finally met them, and the home itself to be less idyllic. The adults in the protagonist's normal life are distasteful and ineffectual, and the romance is creepy.What can I say? I liked it enough that I read it in a day, but I found enough to dislike, and the creepy things weren't the fun-creepy things promised by the photos. I don't think the gimmick advertised by publisher and author--that these were real found photos--sell the book itself.
2150127090	“I had just come to accept that my life would be ordinary when extraordinary things began to happen.” Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children was my Bookclub’s pick of the month, and since it seemed like a perfect spooky book for this October, I was very excited to start. Because this book has such an intriguing plot! A beloved grandfather killed by Cthulhu-like monsters. An old collection of haunting photographs. A boy discovering an orphanage filled with strange secrets. And an unique group of children, each of them with their own peculiar talent.All of these were great plot-elements, but sadly the execution of the story and its characters were far from perfect. During the first half of this story literally NOTHING happened expect Jacob having to deal with his trauma. The story finally picked up when we meet Miss Peregrine and the Peculiars, but still the writing lacked the suspense and excitement that I was hoping for. The unsettling photographs gave me more the creeps than the whole story together.The characters also didn’t blow me away. Jacob especially irritated me with his disdain for his privileged life and his immediate insta-love for Emma (despite KNOWING about her bond with Abe). Also, his talent wasn’t a talent, it was a plot device to move the story further. How cheap.Emma I wasn’t a fan of either because of how quickly she moved on from Abe, but I did like her active spirit: she, Bronwyn, Millard and Enoch (I love that grumpy jerk!) brought in the action that made the last 50 pages so thrilling.So although I’d actually prefer to read a book about the adventures of Jacob’s grandfather (he sounds like a young Dean Winchester!), the ending of this novel left me curious. Perhaps I’ll pick up the second book in the future to see how things go with the Peculiars…and with Miss Peregrine of course. :)Ps. Did any of you see the movie? Was it good or nay?Read here my other reviews of the Miss Peregrine trilogy: #2 Hollow City | #3 Library of Souls
531989656	"Dom gospođice Peregrin za čudnovatu decu" prva je knjiga istoimenog serijala mladog autora Ransoma Rigsa, koja predstavlja zanimljiv spoj YA fantasy romana i starih, po autorovim rečima, autentičnih fotografija koje je pozajmio iz ličnih zbirki desetak kolekcionara, a evo kako neke od njih izgledaju:Moram da priznam da sam očekivala donekle atmosferičniju priču, i konkretniju radnju, da bi se u ovom prvom delu triologije sve praktično svelo na upoznavanje mnoštva likova koji kao da su izašli iz jeftinijeg ogranka škole za nadarenu omladinu profesora Ksavijera. Očekujem da će drugi deo, pod naslovom "Grad pustoduha", biti znatno dinamičniji, barem se tome nadam, a moram da priznam da je ovo jedna od retkih situacija u kojima mogu da kažem da mislim da će film nadmašiti svoj književni predložak. Ako ništa drugo, ova knjiga može da posluži kao fina razbibriga u ove praznične, neradne dane.Ono na šta bih se posebno osvrnula je odličan prevod Save Kuzmanovića, i jako loš povez. Korica se odlepila već posle 20 strana i to duž cele rikne :( Ocena:3/5
1726421729	‘Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children’ is a book I’ve been meaning to read for years now and I was so happy I finally got around to it. I decided to read it in October because I expected it to be a creepy read that would get me in the mood for Halloween, but instead I was thoroughly disappointed. I wanted to love the book so badly due to how hyped it is but in the end, I had to DNF it at 51% because I just couldn’t get myself to read another page of it. The first half of this book was incredibly boring and extremely slow. I know that some people enjoy reading slow books and I don’t usually have a problem with a book being slower than most others but I had so many moments in which I put the book down to take a break because nothing was happening at all. I also really liked the idea of the book prior to reading it and think it would’ve had a lot of potential if it had been done in a different way. I kind of just don’t understand why this is an entire trilogy if the first book is so slow that it might’ve been better to put part of the second book into the first one.I was also very intrigued by the photos included in this book and thought they would add a lot to the story. But after reading most of the book, I feel like the photos actually interrupted my reading flow and I could’ve sometimes done without them. For one, I felt like someone had just found the photos and decided to build a book around it. I often felt like the author just needed to find some sort of story for the photo even though it didn’t really work with the rest of the book and felt a little far-fetched or redundant. Furthermore, I also didn’t like how each of the photos was thoroughly described before I turned the page and was able to take a look at it. I would’ve preferred it if I had had the chance to look at the pictures myself, discover all the little details about it and imagine my own story for the character before reading the author’s version of it. Reading through thorough descriptions of several photos and then turning the page and seeing all of them in a row just really interrupted the story for me and it just began to annoy me after some time. One more thing that made me DNF this book was the main character. For me, main characters are an important part of books because I get to follow their story. And if I don’t like a main character, the plot can be incredibly well done and I still won’t be able to thoroughly enjoy it. Unfortunately, the main character from MPHFPC was arrogant and so ungrateful, I just wanted to throw the book out of the window. He’s such a brat and literally takes everything for granted. He is constantly complaining about his job at a drug store (which he has because he’s going to inherit part of the company one day) and also constantly complains about his parents (even though they do everything for him, allow him anything and even pay for a three-week trip to the UK to look at a freaking house). There are people out there who are struggling with money and much worse problems in their life and he still thinks everyone else got it better than him. I understand that authors don’t always want to create characters that everyone falls in love with but this was just so infuriating and unnecessary. All in all, I just didn’t enjoy this book and can’t give it more than 1 out of 5 stars. But I just want to say that I don’t want to stop any of you from giving it a try anyways. This has received a lot of amazing reviews already and there are people out there who love it a lot. So maybe you might love it even though I hated it. We all have different tastes in books and I don’t want to sound like I’m telling everyone to not touch this book or hurt anyone who’s loved this one a lot.
641797168	I was surprised to find this was a Young Adult book. The book trailer I saw left me to expect something much darker.I always think it's hard to give a book a fair review when the advertising has led you to think you are buying something else!This book with its peculiar photographs and a story woven among them was very enjoyable. I'd put the tale into company with the sort of YA stories that one gets from Diana Wynne Jones or Diane Duane. That is, it's intelligent and assumes young adults are intelligent. And that's always a very good thing for a YA book to do.
1735839620	so i know that this book has now been made into a tim burton film, but it literally READS like a tim burton film! so whimsical yet spooky, very atmospheric & i loved the addition of the photos. i had so much fun!
445077673	This is the daily deal on 01Feb18 on Amazon for $1.99I really enjoyed the first book of this series. “We cling to our fairy tales until the price for believing in them becomes too high.” Jacob has been told fantastical stories his entire life by his grandfather about the orphanage he grew up in and the other children that where in the orphanage with him. Jacob believed them all when he was young; there were pictures of the children to back up his Grandfathers stories. But as he grew up the stories faded away into being more myth and fantasy than fact. Jacob’s parents convinced him that his grandfather was not the man Jacob thought he was and the stories were just that…stories. That is until his Grandfather dies and says some cryptic last words to his favorite grandson. Jacob is determined to see the orphanage in England for himself and find out if his Grandfathers past is fact or fiction. “...so one day my mother sat me down and explained that I couldn't become an explorer because everything in the world had already been discovered. I'd been born in the wrong century, and I felt cheated.” I will say this is a very peculiar story indeed. The cover looks so creepy but this is not really a scary book at all. As the mysteries unfold the story of the past is brought to light and Jacob must decide where and when he belongs. The pictures throughout are fantastic and add so much to the story, this is a really original concept. The love interest is cute and different in so many ways, the idea behind the orphanage the children in it and the monsters that hunt them was a great concept. There were new discoveries around every corner.If you are looking for something a little out of the ordinary than this is a great break from the norm. But make sure you get it in a format that you can see the pictures for the book as they add so much to the story. “Because we weren’t like other people. We were peculiar.”“Peculiar how?”“Oh, all sorts of ways,” he said. “There was a girl who could fly, a boy who had bees living inside him, a brother and sister who could lift boulders over their heads.”
1385858719	Aslında kitaba düz 4 puan vermek istemiyorum ama daha düşüğünü de vermek gelmiyor içimden. Neden biraz ikilemde kaldığımı yazacağım birazdan ama sevdiğim yönlerinden bahsedeyim öncelikle: Kitap oldukça akıcı. Bir oturuşta ilk yarısını, diğer oturuşta da ikinci yarısını okuyup bitirebilirsiniz kolaylıkla. Akıcılıkta çevirinin payı büyük biliyorsunuz, o yüzden Aslı Dağlı'ya kocaman alkışlar burdan *-*Karakterleri cidden seviyorsunuz. Okuduğum bir kitapta konuyu vs. çok sevsem de içindeki karakterleri sevmezsem olay bitiyor benim için.Emma'yı ve görünmez çocuğumuzu çok sevdim ben. Jacob'ın babasının da hevesinin kaçtığı yerler çok gerçekçi geldi bana.. Belki biraz kendime benzettim ondandır ama ehehfkkdjgdfgKitabın baskısı,cildi?? O kadar güzel ki anlatamam. Kargodan geldiğinde ilk yaptığım şey arkadaşlarıma mesaj atıp ben bu kitaba sarılıp uyuyacağım demek olmuştu hatta:D İç kapaktaki ve ilk birkaç sayfadaki desenler, bölüm girişleri, fotoğraflar.. hepsi inanılmaz güzel. Babaannemnin evinin yer döşemelerini hatırlattı bana, bakıp bakıp mutlu oldum... :DKitap tamamen orijinal değil evet, döngü olayı özellikle daha önceden gördüğümüz bir şeydi ama genel olarak çok farklı bir konusu vardı ve ben 'canavar' olayına bayıldım.Sevmediğim yerlere gelirsek:Aslında kitapla ilgili bir sıkıntım yok. Konu olabildiğince orijinaldi dediğim gibi. Benim tek sıkıntım yazarla. Yazarın ilk kitabı olduğu çok belli ve özellikle kitabın ilk başlarında bazı zorlama paragraflara rastladım. O da ilerledikçe yok olduğu için fazla düşmedim üzerine. Sonlara doğru kitap güzelleştiği için serinin diğer kitapları daha güzeldir diye umuyorum.Yazarın kurguyu fotoğraflara uydurmak zorunda olması oldukça zor bir şey olsa gerek. Çünkü kitapta elinden geldiğinde fazla fotoğraf kullanmak isteyecek ama fotoğrafların da zorlama gibi gözükmemesi gerek.. Bazı fotoğraflar olmasa da olurmuş dedim. Özellikle iki Bayan Peregrine fotoğrafı arasında oldukça arada kaldım. İlkinde oldukça yaşlı gözüküyor, diğerinde çok genç. Okurken bir şeyler mi kaçırdım ben?? Bir de (view spoiler)[ Emma kaç yaşında yahu? Küçük değil mi bu kız?? Abe ve Emma'nın fotoğrafında Emma resmen orta yaşlı. Bir gün bile yaşlanmamışsın diyor Jacob bir de. :') Yine fotoğrafı hikayeye uydurma amaçlı seçilmiş bir fotoğraf ama hiç uymamış ki bence. Çok merak ettiğim için bakmıştım ve kitabın sonunda bir şekilde Emma'nın büyüyüp başka bir zaman diliminde Abe ile yaşayacağını falan düşünüp spoiler yedim sanmıştım. O denli alakasız gözüküyordu fotoğraf. (hide spoiler)]Genel olarak beğendiğim, keyifle okuduğum bir kitap oldu *-*
1018331729	3.5 stars?This book gave me an entirely new, unforgettable, somewhat weird hair raising and goose pimples causing reading experience and I liked it. Mostly. Lol! ^^
1661208648	Full Review on The Candid CoverI waited way too long to start reading Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children, but I am so glad that I finally got the chance to read it. The story is so unique and the pictures throughout the book make it so much more interesting to read. Ransom Riggs has a descriptive and mysterious writing style that really drew me in. Everything about this book was just so enjoyable.This book has such an original concept! Basically, a boy finds and old children's home filled with people who each have strange abilities. For example, one of them is invisible and another has super strength. I loved getting to know each of the children and reading about Jacob's encounters with each of them. What I enjoyed even more was the fact that there's a bit of time travel incorporated into the book. I don't want to say too much about it because of spoilers, but the way time travel is included is so different than any other time travel book I've read.I really enjoyed the old photos scattered throughout the book. It was really interesting to be able to read a scene and then turn the page to see an image of a character, for instance. The pictures really helped me visualize the story more and I felt like I had a better understanding of what was going on. I loved the idea of including images so much and I wish there was more of it, honestly.Ransom Riggs has such an amazing writing style. He writes so descriptively and as a reader, I actually became immersed in the story. What I found interesting about the way Ransom Riggs writes is the fact that he doesn't reveal too much and waits to share important details until a specific moment where there is a massive plot twist. I am not a fan of info dump and I liked the way this book is more mysterious as the information comes gradually.Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children is one of the most original books out there. I really enjoyed the old photos included in the book and Ransom Riggs's descriptive and mysterious writing style. If you are one of the few that have yet to read this book, I would definitely recommend that you pick it up soon!
1315333736	Bir çeviri daha bitti!Kitaba dair söylenecek o kadar söz var ki hangisine önce başlayacağımı bilemiyorum. Heyecan doluydu, eğlenceliydi ama en önemlisi baştan çıkaracak kadar "tuhaftı". Hem tuhaf hem büyüleyiciydi. Başından sonuna kadar film havasında ilerleyen 352 sayfa çoğu zaman gözlerimin yuvalarından düşmesine neden oldu ama en en en dehşete düşürücüsü kesinlikle son elli sayfaydı. Elim ayağım dolandı çevirirken; çeviriyi bırakıp kitabı okumamak için kendimi zor tuttum. Öte yandan öylesine keyif aldım ki tarifi imkansız.Özellikle Kafes'ten sonra Bayan Peregrine'in Tuhaf Çocukları'nı çevirmekten de onur duydum. Sırada serinin delicesine merak ettiğim ikinci kitabı var.Bu çeviriyle birlikte şunu öğrendim kendime dair: Çevirdiğim kitapların son sayfalarında hep ağlanıyorum. Kendimi onlardan ayrılacak gibi mi hissediyorum, yoksa yüzlerce sayfalık çabanın sonucu mu duygulanmama neden oluyor bilemiyorum. Ama her defasında aynı şey oluyor.Bu kitapta özellikle fantastik öğelerle ilgili bana yardım eden herkese çok teşekkür ederim. Geceleri telefonlarınıza gelen bildirimlerden ötürü de üzgünüm:)
1122502347	I didn't know much about this book, but what a new way to tell a story. This book was thrilling to me. I was engrossed in it and it was peculiarly good. I would think anyone interested in a good mystery would just adore this book. It's just magic what this little book did.
1776306592	“I used to dream about escaping my ordinary life, but my life was never ordinary. I had simply failed to notice how extraordinary it was.” I will give to this book 3/5 StarsI have felt many contradictory things with this book, I don't say that it's one of my favorites, but I certainly will remember it for its excellent plot, I think the writer has an incredible imagination and I'm very pleased to have met this book.I think everyone already knows a bit about what the story is, but still I summarize it: The story is told by Jacob, a boy of 15 years old, which his grandfather had this small fantastic stories about his youth, when he met some "peculiar" kids, who had special skills and while Jacob grows up, ends for believing that the stories of his grandfather are nothing more than stories, until something sinister happens and decides to investigate about it, until he meets with these children, who incredibly, they look like the photos that his grandfather showed to him , without having aged a day. “When someone won't let you in, eventually you stop knocking.” Well, as I said before, the plot is fantastic, but still hasn't been enough to impress me.I decided to read it because I was eager to see the movie, which I saw the trailer and left me wanting more, and since I have bad experiences to see the movie first and then read the book, I decided to do it right this time and go for the book first.This may sound strange but sadly I liked more the trailer or the promise of what would, that what the book was. At first I was hooked with the story but thought that reading was a bit slow, when I thought I had read much, I really wasn't, and that frustrates me a little, even so I continue because the plot is initially compelling .After the first 100 pages turned out faster to read, but a little less interesting, and althoughI really liked the character of Jacob, wasn't the way with the character of Emma , ​​I feel it has a somewhat overreacted and dramatic character, and even I found her quite hysterical, I couldn't really connect with her. Not to mention the romance, that was anything but romantic, was forced and hard to believe , I think Emma saw Jacob as second option from the beginning and he believed all that. I feel sorry for that guy haha. “We cling to our fairy tales until the price for believing in them becomes too high.” on the other hand, I loved Millard , I think it's adorableSomething that I just think that is amazing, are the images which the book contains, I've loved that!, is very original and many turned out to be quite creepy, which is perfect for these times of Halloween!I can see that Emma's skill is not the same in the movie, as they are changed, I don't know how I feel about that, maybe they did since the levitation was more "interesting" for the plot, I don't know, but I will , once see the movie :).I'm not sure if I will continue with the trilogy, perhaps, but not for the moment, the truth is I'm more interested in going to other readings, even so , maybe I'll go for these books again with the time :)
1443021100	** 2,5 stars **This book was quite disappointing. I went into it expecting to have a creepy and mysterious story. But what I got was simply a paranormal story about time travelling and kids with powers that never creeped me out. The first 150 pages were actually very promising, and I enjoyed them very much. It was really mysterious, full of secrets and enigmas, with the creepy photos that would make the story come alive and bring a strange and scary atmosphere to the story. But then, the book took a direction that I was not expecting and I can’t say I liked it. From that turn, the story was just plenty paranormal, we lost all the potential it had at the beginning. I came to think at some point that the pictures actually no longer matched the story and the characters because they were far too creepy whereas the story wasn’t at all. I felt that how the main protagonist would describe the characters was absolutely not how the pictures depicted them. In my opinion, the book ended up dragging a little bit, and at some point I couldn’t feel involved in it anymore and just wanted to finish it quickly, which is quite regrettable since the story had real potential at the beginning. One thing also is that through the entire book, I could never care for any of the characters, I couldn’t feel anything towards either of them. I felt detached to them and not really invested with them in the story and what was happening. I thought the characters lacked real characterization, character’s development, as well as backgrounds that could make us feel for them or become attached to them. In the end, each of the characters felt flat and bland, without us knowing anything about them other than their powers. As for the writing, it was quite fluid and simple, really easy to read, though not extremely fast-paced, which led me to get a bit bored several times in the book when nothing much was happening. I don’t think I will pick up the sequel since the book disappointed me and didn’t live up to my expectations though I really enjoyed the first pages.
