319342489	Red rain good. Aliens good. (Awesome concept.) Biker who can't drive, good. Obstacles in her path, plausible. But seriously. Packing all those clothes, food, stores? 1. Yes, there is talk of scavenging along the way, explaining why she's not carrying too much food. There are bike stores in most major towns, but I can see packing lots of bike supplies because you don't want to get stuck between towns without bike-fixing gear. But seriously--limiting yourself to a liter of water a day? Can't you carry more than that and scavenge for bottled water when you scavenge for food? Water is important, especially with all that biking! Also, panniers, yes, but wouldn't pulling a little cart along behind you be a great way to carry things without weighing yourself down too much? People put children and pets in those little things you hitch to a bike, so why not food, water, bike-fixing gear, even those spare rims Emily wanted so much?2. Packing all your clothes and worrying about clean underwear? Hello, Emily, there are department stores in pretty much every city. Also, I suppose I shouldn't expect a man to know about pantiliners, but Jones wrote about tampons and pads, so do a bit more research or ask a woman!3. Double-burner propane burner with tanks (plural) of propane? Again, what happened to scavenging? And seriously, a double-burner? You're eating for one! 4. That GPS for your bike, Emily, it needs batteries. So does your flashlight. Okay, maybe the GPS is pedal-powered, but the flashlight sure as heck isn't. But I don't see Emily packing batteries, rechargeable or otherwise. I don't see her packing up more solar panels connected to battery packs. I don't see her picking up portable battery packs (astronomy shops! camping supply place! She's a journalist, she should know these things.) 5. Oh, and considering she's WAAAAY overpacking, what was wrong with grabbing a can opener and not having to deal with looking for pop-top cans? Grocery stores sell those, you know. Can openers, I mean. You know, the manual kind you crank to open a can?*sighs* I thought the aliens were great. But considering the level of detail Jones is lavishing on the way Emily is preparing for her trek north (spending the ENTIRE BOOK on it, in fact) you'd think he'd THINK about the preparations a little more!
606451792	NOTE: Whenever passages from the book are quoted, all emphases are mine.This review is full of spoilers. I can’t even begin to describe how incomplete, how uninspiring, how nothing this book was without spoiling it. Besides, you really don’t want to read it. Trust me on this.I read Extinction Point because my wife downloaded a free sample on her Kindle, read it, and thought the book might be something we’d enjoy reading together. Boy, was she wrong. That I promised to read the book to completion is the only reason that I didn’t dump it a third of the way through it. Yes, Extinction Point was that bad, bad enough to stand as the single worst post-apocalyptic book I’ve ever read. It offended me on an intellectual level.The idea, the concept behind the novel, was something that could be worked and developed into something great, but my overall impression is that Extinction Point was not well thought out. The execution and details were major failures.Before I discuss them, let me give you a brief overview of the book: Emily Baxter is a reporter for New York City daily newspaper. Emily grew up on a farm in Iowa, did not leave the state until she was in her twenties, and yet, never learned how to drive. As the novel opens, she lives in Manhattan on the seventeenth floor of a higher end apartment building. One day, a mysterious red rain falls on Europe and then, hours later, the United States. Within eight hours after the fall of the red rain, seemingly all animal life dies except Emily. A couple of days later, Emily posts her cell phone number on every social media site she can think of. A day or so later, she receives a phone call from a research center in Alaska where a team—supposedly; we never hear from or of anyone other than a man named Jacob—of scientists survived. They suggest Emily come to them.(view spoiler)[Much of Extinction Point’s many problems are caused by the author’s use of language. The novel read to me as a collection of words that the author thought might sound pretty together. Sadly, many of his words and phrases failed to make any sense when put into context. “His face turning as white as the blood-splattered sheet of paper he still clutched in his free hand” makes no sense. My absolute favorite:The line of work Emily was in had long ago taught her to trust her gut instinct. For some unknown, subconscious reason, she hesitated at the threshold of the apartment, the flat of her left hand resting against the door, her right hand clenched so tightly around the ax handle that she could feel her nails digging into the flesh of her palm. Something did not feel right, she realized. She couldn’t put a finger on it, but she had a definite sense of offness about what she was hearing. From the dark apartment beyond the door the wail of the child sounded again, louder now that she was so close, breaking through her indecision.Wagghhhhh!!!A scene from the movie The Shining—the one where an insane Jack Nicholson chops down the door to his kid’s room with an ax—leaped unbidden into her mind, sending a shudder of unease down her spine, but she dismissed it as just nerves.He just loved contradicting himself throughout the book. “She was glad she had brought the flashlight with her, as the interior of the store gradually became darker the farther back she walked. She fished the flashlight out of her backpack switched it on, and twisted the beam adjuster until it gave off a wide angle of light that pushed back the remaining darkness. There was almost enough light to see by without the flashlight…” Another: “Emily didn’t think there would be any kind of threat in the store; Mike was too smart to have stayed. He would have gone home and died with his family just like millions of other Americans probably had.”Many of the protagonist’s thought processes failed to make any sense. Everyone around Emily is dead, but when she saw a body under a blanket on the sidewalk, she calls out to it and runs up to it with the full expectation that it’s a living person who’s sleeping on the street. Why would she expect this man to be alive? If he was alive, why, considering that everyone else is dead, would he still be sleeping on the street.That’s but one example of Emily proving to be the dumbest ELE survivor in literary history. There are scores of others. She was worried about drinking tap water after everyone died, but she was comfortable taking a long bubble bath. She was worried about what was going on in the city, but she took a sleeping pill. She stayed in her seventeenth-floor apartment. She holed up in her apartment for days, but did not leave her computer on so she could research as much as she could—Emily was a reporter, remember. She was a reporter who neither reported nor recorded anything that was going on. She didn’t right anything down. She didn’t type anything. She didn’t take a single photograph with her cell phone. Nothing.The biggest example of Emily’s—and, by extension, the book’s—stupidity is that she thought riding her bicycle from Manhattan to Alaska (heading due north before heading west, too) was a smarter decision than teaching herself how to drive there. My favorite, though, was that after making contact via telephone with a research team in Alaska, Emily rejected the idea of getting out of New York: “What? I’m not planning on leaving my apartment, let alone New York. Why would I need to get out of New York?”Another one of the things that really bothered me was that Emily’s building had one elevator. It is a high end building with at least twenty floors of apartments and forty units per floor. One elevator? Nah, son. But the story required there to be only one elevator, which the author made undesirable to his heroine, because he needed her to trudge up and down sixteen flights of stairs every time she traveled to and from her apartment.The dumbest thing about the novel that wasn’t related to Emily’s thought processes was the woman’s last night in her apartment, a day after the power had gone out. One of the creatures chewed threw the floor above Emily’s apartment, fell into her bedroom, and knocked over a lit candle. Emily didn’t notice the fire right away; she only did so when standing by her apartment’s front door. The smoke traveled from the bedroom to the front door, but not into the exposed apartment above her? If it was strong enough to make it to the front of the apartment, would her unit’s fire alarm not have gone off? Fire alarms do have batteries, right? Like I said, the author did not think his story through to completion. After letting the creature out through her front door (yes, she let it out, mainly because she—the author, really—forgot that Emily had a shotgun at her disposal), Emily looks through the peephole into the unlit hallway and saw creatures there. Because this was the world’s most magical peephole, Emily was able to see creatures in the hallway even after backing away from the door. The next day, when she was leaving, she was able to see and avoid falling through holes that had been chewed through the floor. We know she didn’t use the flashlight to see them because we read that she didn’t turn it on until she reached the stairwell. Emily Baxter, our heroine. Maybe she was immune to the red rain because she has built-in SONAR.I don’t know whether or not the author ever lived in New York or visited the city, but his writing demonstrates very little knowledge of the city. Emily’s boyfriend, Nathan, was a New York City police officer. He was described as tolerant of Emily’s “ability to swear like a proverbial sailor.” You see, “Dating was hard enough in this town; finding someone to put up with her inordinate knowledge of cuss words was even harder.” What New York City is this guy talking about? Speaking of Nathan, a New York City cop would never say “I couldn’t even get within ten miles of the precinct.” First of all, New Yorkers—city dwellers, period—don’t think in terms of miles. Second, and more importantly, Manhattan is only 13 miles long and a couple of miles wide. If the officer was stationed in that borough, then he would have spoken in blocks or given a specific street. If he needed to report to a different borough, then he would have said that he couldn’t get anywhere near it. What good do “miles” do anyone here? Also, what New Yorker thinks of the state? Every New Yorker I know thinks of the city. The state is just…a place. “Is that just here or throughout the state?” is only asked by a New Yorker in fiction.The geography of the story frustrated me often. Emily’s apartment is described “handy for the Sixty-Sixth Street and Lincoln Center subway station.” Later we read that she leaves her apartment on her bicycle, heads southwest on Amsterdam until she turns left onto Eighty-Sixth. This places her apartment at least twenty blocks north of Lincoln Center Plaza. Umm… When Emily finally decides to leave New York, she planned heading directly North. “If she did that she would be out of the city I a day at most.” How big does he think New York is?Extinction Point also lacked completeness. There was a beginning—really, it was just the beginning of a beginning—but no middle, and certainly no end. Instead of a novel or the opening of a series, this was more like the opening installment of a serial that would have shown up in the Saturday Evening Post a century ago.Extinction Point is a novel that lacked continuity. It is a post-apocalyptic tale that lacks desperation. It is a story of science fiction that is less scientific than an episode of Looney Toons. After the red rain falls, Emily decided that people got sick and died due to a virus. She did not think it; she did not hypothesize it. No, Emily knew it. Later in the novel, she decided the red rain was alien. No scientific clues, no evidence, no actual thought behind it. As the entire novel is spent inside of the woman’s head going through every inane thought, I find it reasonable to expect that we would have read Emily’s decision process on the cause of the apocalyptic event if she actually had one. Figuring out the cause is only the single most important plot point this book would have been able to offer.But Emily never seemed to grasp the gravity of her situation. The further removed I am from finishing the book, I actually grow convinced that the author was more concerned with showing how talented a wordsmith he can be than he was with staying true to the story. How else to explain the inclusion of the following prose as Emily leaves her apartment for the last time:Leaving it behind was going to be painful not only because of her deep emotional investment but because, when she stepped outside that door for the final time, she was also stepping away from the last remnants of her old life and all the security that came with it.Emily Baxter, a shotgun in one hand and all that was left of her worldly possessions strapped to her back, opened the door to her apartment, stepped outside, and closed the door on her old life as she began a new journey out into the unkown.What? Everyone she’s ever known has been dead nearly a week, her adopted hometown has been taken over by what she believes are aliens, and the author treats it as if she’s leaving home for a job in the big city.Despite everything I’ve written so far, Extinction Point’s biggest failing is its absurdity. Actually, its biggest failing is the writing itself. There were some funny moments and some good turns of phrase. They were, unfortunately, few, far between, and lacked any cohesiveness. I really don’t know what the author was thinking. I do know he was in love with his words. “It was like watching some strange migration.” No, it was not like watching some strange migration. It was watching a strange migration. “She knew, with a concrete certainty that sank deep to the bottom of her stomach, the world would remember this day, and those that followed it, for as long as there was still a human race.” Gee, you think?Whenever he tried to put together a poignant or emphatic moment, it fell flat. Usually, it was because he couldn’t leave a sentence alone and, instead, had to stamp it with Emily’s feeling about it. Emily is an idiot, so this never helps. “This sickness, this red plague, did not seem to discriminate between species, and Emily was pretty sure that was a very bad thing.” Also, “Now that she had seen what had crawled out of one of those cocoons with her own eyes, there was little doubt left that what she had witnessed over the past few days was connected, part of some unfathomable plan.”Oh, Emily. How stupid can a protagonist be? When it comes to her and her trip, the answer is immensely. Many reviews about Extinction Point go on and on about how stupid it was that Emily decided to ride instead of drive to Alaska, but that decision was just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to dumb decisions. Emily packed a tiny apartment onto her bike. Multiple wool sweaters, multiple parkas, multiple pairs of shoes, multiple gallons of water, multiple pairs of socks, multiple T-shirts, multiple multiples of multiples, as if she wouldn’t come across a store or home during the 4,400+ mile trip to Alaska. In total, it had to be a couple hundred pounds of stuff.The final 20% of Extinction Point must be treated as an entity unto itself. Even though I had considered the first 80% to be the dumbest book I’d ever read, I now refer to that final fifth as “the dumb part”. It was…special. Emily brought an entire Wal-Mart with her on her bike, but she didn’t think to bring a map or a pair of sunglasses. Of course, that means she had trouble with morning sun and she got lost. Yes, she did have a GPS with her, but she had an “innate stubbornness to refuse to rely on technology unless she absolutely had to. The GPS and sat-phone were not going to work forever, so the sooner she learned to get by without them the quicker she would become self-sufficient.” Where I come from, using the tools that are available to you is the definition of self-sufficiency. Why did she even bring the GPS?The most ridiculous thing Emily failed to bring with her was a tent. You’re probably thinking that she could just sleep in people’s houses, in their beds. Emily, darling little saint that she is, has a moral objection to doing that. Even though she’s the last known survivor of the lower forty-eight, Emily has a moral objection to sleeping in others’ beds. She’ll break into houses and scavenge for food, but she can’t sleep in a bed. I know, I know; I don’t get it either.The most important thing she forgot to bring with her was a contingency plan. Jones’ text explicitly states so.After a fire forces Emily into a panicked detour, she comes across a “forest unlike any that had ever existed on Earth before,” a forest of alien trees. After a week of cowering and refusing to act like the only reporter on the ground in the face of the story of all-time, she decides to stop riding her bike and stick her hands into the alien goo. Instead of trying to ride her bike around the forest or find another way, Emily decided that the safest and smartest way to run away from the aliens was to WALK HER BICYCLE THROUGH THE ALIEN FOREST. She was already nursing a pretty bad shoulder injury. I will never understand how this was a healthier or safer option than riding her bike around the forest. Of course she was attacked by monsters and of course she forgot she had the shotgun and of course she was rescued BY THE LAST LIVING DOG ON EARTH, a dog from Valhalla, New York named—yes, you guessed it—Thor. Prior to that climactic scene, the creatures had shown exactly zero interest in Emily. What’s one more contradiction?A reader is left with no conclusion but to believe that the only reason for the fire, the fire, and the monsters was to have Thor save Emily. Why didn’t the author just give Emily a dog at the beginning of the book? Did he not realize that many apartments in New York City are pet-friendly. (hide spoiler)]I joked with my wife that the author must not use UPS—he can’t make logistics work for him. (Thank you! Thank you! I’ll be here all week.) Extinction Point was a logistical nightmare. Practicality, geography, science, societal understanding, and common sense are but a sample of the ideals that never made an appearance in a novel whose protagonist, who also served as the only POV character—and, for a good 80% of the novel, its only character at all—is a veteran newspaper reporter. Some stories are plot driven. Some are character driven. Extinction Point is deus ex machina driven. There is no reason, no logic, behind the action. I can only go through so much of it here, but nearly every page contained something frustrating enough to make me laugh.
337325698	This sucked so bad I DNF'd at around 10% and regret every second of my time wasted. It was free and I still want my money back. The writing was horribad. May God have mercy on us all.
287888225	4.5 StarsEveryone has their own way of realizing to what degree they are enjoying a book they are reading. For me it comes down to a few things. 1.) I think about the story when I'm not reading it. 2.) I look forward to picking it back up again. 3.) I am disappointed when it is done. If I don't look forward to reading a book, then it's just filler. When this book ended I was definitely irritated with myself for not taking longer to enjoy it. (I'll know better when the next one comes out!) Something kind of strange happened with this book too. When it was done, I had a very hard time picking up another book. Nothing looked good enough, when what I really wanted was to still be reading about Emily and her story.This is not a story about constant action, fighting, or tons of witty dialog, although you do get the impression that our heroine, Emily, would be more than capable of exchanging witty repartee with a worthy companion, were she not the only living person within way-further-than-shouting-distance. This story is about character, perseverance, struggling to survive despite having no one to share that survival with, and more than a fair share (and that's a good thing) of "Eeeek!" creep factor.Speaking of creep factor, that was one of my favorite things about this book. As Emily makes her way around, investigating what has happened and determining what to do next, she encounters frequent signs of the world's new boogeymen. I don't want to give away too much, but let's just say, there's more than one thing to fear in this new world she has been marooned in. I enjoy a good shiver or squeal of happy-disgust (if read much horror, you know what I'm talking about), so I definitely got a kick out of this book.A couple of things led me towards calling this a 4.5 star book. One thing is that I kept noticing a certain remoteness/coldness in Emily. When some events happened I would expect a likable character to be very concerned about her family, friends, neighbors, boyfriend (and of course, for herself). She worried about #1 okay, but everyone else... not so much. I think that was intentional from the author, but as a woman myself, I expect a certain amount of caring from another woman's character. DISCLAIMER:I know the author, through Goodreads. If you've ever read a book by someone you know (and maybe even like), you'll notice there is a constant mental dialog occurring simultaneously with reading the book. First, you are looking at things that you can provide reader feedback on, and second, and this one is a doozy, you have to constantly ask yourself, "Did I really, like this, or is it just because I know the author?" Every laugh, smile, or nod of appreciation gets questioned, if you are conscientious enough to attempt to stay unbiased. And, it is always SUCH a relief when what you are reading turns out to be good. Sometimes even great. Fortunately, I really, genuinely enjoyed this book. I'd have liked it even if it was written by someone I thought was a total asshat, which really says something about the book itself. :-P
293127755	A Badass Hidden Gem...http://badassbookreviews.com/badass-h...Read my review at badassbookreviews.comI admit it. I’m a fan of the series Doomsday Preppers. I also have a major crush on Les Stroud of Survivorman. There is something about a guy that can survive with nothing but his common sense and his knowledge of the world around him! I will also admit to having an emergency backpack filled with stuff that I hope to never need. I’m not a fanatic in any way, shape or form. I’m semi-prepared for earthquakes, floods, fires, and other natural or man-made disasters. However, I am NOT prepared for…BLOOD RAIN!Holy red smoke! This book scared me. I like scary books but this book SCARED me. It makes you think, what would you do?So, on that note, what would you do if red rain was falling? I’m not talking about rain with a mild tint but rain that clung to the glass of the window like mud, or, more appropriately, like blood splatter at a murder scene. That’s right folks…BLOOD RAIN!Would you go out and stand in that rain and look up out of curiosity? Would you taste it? Yes, some people would. That little thought disturbed Emily greatly…Why the hell would you stick that stuff in your mouth? Emily wondered. The level of some people’s intelligence never failed to amaze her. Who knew where it came from?Our poor, poor Emily. She has a problem, she lived. In fact, she may be the last person on earth. What did she survive? The beginning of Extinction Point deals with this little mystery. Is it fallout from an experiment gone bad? Is it some weird natural phenomenon like the bioluminescent dinoflagellates that make the oceans glow in neon lights? Well, you’ll have to read the book to find out what causes the almost extinction of the human race!The storyThe author came up with a clever survival story. Not only does Emily survive the blood rain but she also has to deal with her own extreme loneliness, the metamorphosis of the human carcasses to something else (can’t say more, it’s a spoiler), and how to survive when all Emily ever wanted was to report the news, not become the news.OverallThe strength of this story is the details and the believability. The author makes the reader truly believe the events in the book. I loved how every move Emily made was described and how the reader could go “NOOOO” when you watched Emily go somewhere where you knew trouble was waiting!The weakness was the details. I know, that makes no sense since I just said it was a strength. However, after a while, I was tired of watching EVERYTHING Emily did. I was afraid I was going to read “Emily farted” next in the book. Thankfully, later in the book, we get to meet THOR. I have to capitalize THOR since he is larger than life and he is plain awesome. I’m not going to spoil THOR since he should be a surprise to all the readers. GO THOR!!!!This was a great book 1 and a great start for a series.
501428296	Really kind of disappointed herefirst the good: the premise, great idea. You're basically one of the last people on earth due to a kind of stealth alien invasion. Author looks like he set everything up well, planned out the way the alien takeover is happening and looks like he has a plan for the future.the bad: the heroine. Doesn't drive at the beginning is really no big deal. That at age 30ish that she's never driven is a bit unrealistic, but okay, I can roll with that. However, if you are the only person left in the world and you are trying to go thousands of miles and you don't want to drive a car or learn is asinine, stupid, and just flat out dumb. Maybe she's only riding a bike til she hooks up with predictable dog and book 2 she'll get over it. But then again, the dog addition was also predictable. Did I mention predictable.Add that everything that she seems to be carrying seems too much for a bike. Again, she's one of the only people left in the world, there's a lot of stuff she probably doesn't have to worry about. She can basically go into any store and grab what she wants in terms of clothing as needed. She can go into anyone homes and probably get more than enough canned foods as she travels, etc... There's lots she doesn't have to worry about that she needlessly does. The problem is that she's a reporter, and at the beginning seems to be the go-getter type, at least that's what the 1st few paragraphs shows us. But when it comes right down to it, she's not. Thus, the first few paragraphs that I think were designed to show us who she is, is pointless and meaningless. Also, as a reporter, the first thing she tries to do is call people to find out if anyone is alive and only as an afterthought does she check social media websites the next day? Really? Not remotely consistent with a reporter these days.And that she's too afraid to even learn to drive a car? Really? No one else on the road. Grab a car and learn. You're an intelligent woman. You won't have to worry about running into someone. You won't get a ticket. If you get in an accident, get another car. They're free at this point.What the book did was make me think about what I would do if I were in this situation:1) obviously learn to drive. Why? More protection, and better able to carry needed things. Think a decently large car.2) rob any grocery store of canned goods, water, etc... put in a said vehicle, 3) go to a hospital and get medical supplies4) go to a library and find any books about survival5) before the power goes out, download any books about survival, or even just for reading that you can, then go to an electronics store and grab tablets, usb drives, storage, etc, along with car chargers so that you can always keep up. Hell, grab a few cell phones while you are at it, if they are pre-paid and usable, just in case.6) go to auto shops, get an extra spare tire, oil, tools, etc.. that you might need just in case.7) hit up an rei for survival gear. hell, grab a bike rack and a bike if you think you'll need it. Grab a tent, lamps, warm clothing, etc... To conclude: The only reason I gave it 2 stars was because it made me think about those 7 things and that for the most part, it was well written and easy to read. The obvious plot issues is why I ranked it down. Though, because of the premise and the hope of a little more intelligent 2nd book, there is a chance I might check out book 2, but it would definitely have to be in a discounted bargain bin or a serious kindle sale for me to purchase it.
6386731627	I went in blind assuming it would be a zombie apocalypse story since it was on my recommendations based on a few zombpoc books, I'm pleased to report that it wasn't actually a zombie story. I liked the main character well enough because she came across as a realistic rather ordinary person faced with extraordinary circumstances. I thought the pacing was pretty good too. Looking forward to reading the next installment.
319809881	** spoiler alert ** So this story started out really well and then it just dragged on towards the end. The premise of the story is awesome; young independent woman who is the sole survivor of a red rain plague that hits the whole world wiping out man and animal alike. The monsters that the people surrounding her turn into were well written and made me want to read the whole thing straight away but then I find myself really noticing that this book could have done with a general editing. On almost every page there is a hyphen mistake or two, place names are misspelled and the repetitions really killed it for me. It is one thing to mention that her shoulder hurts, but to repeat it again and again and again just makes for a very slow read. Plotwise forcing the heroine to bike instead of drive could have made for an interesting way of telling the story but add that she has no clue how to pack a bag (the amount of stuff she brings with her would require a small tank to carry) and the fact that all this added weight still does not hinder her from carrying her bike over fences, tree trunks etc she would have probably been better off just winging how to drive a car or at least find herself a motorbike. Never mind the fact that she is going to drive to Alaska on this bike, yeah that's right peddling through ice and snow.Towards the end you find yourself wanting the plot to move on instead of detailing her every idea and meal. Of course to add on top of the cliche that they story turns out to be towards the end we also get the trusty dog added. Maybe this indicates that there will be more survivors, but how did the dog manage to survive without eating anything? And also, why does she not rummage through the house she stays at, stealing clothes and other supplies than just a couple of cans of things? How about looking in the trunks of some of these cars you keep passing, as the author keeps reminding us that our heroine was the only person not stupid enough to try and make a run for it with everything they own? In the end the suspense of the first half can not really outweigh the dragging on of the plot in the second half. Lovely premises, poor execution.
308405404	So I really liked the concept behind this book, a very interesting take on the apocalypse/post-apocalypse genre. The idea of the "red rain" was fascinating, however, there were some flaws with the book that prevented me from giving it a higher rating.First, what I enjoyed. Like I said above, I really enjoyed the take on what has happened in this book. The "red rain" and the results of that, are fascinating so far, and I am very interested to see where it goes. Also, throwing in the aspect of not knowing where it came from - is it alien? or the world reinventing itself again? - really intrigued me. I enjoyed the main character Emily, but not until about half way through the book.Truthfully, Emily annoyed the crap out of me for the first part of the book. She seemed like a very typical New Yorker, which I am sure was what the author was trying to convey. She just didn't have much substance. She was very shallow, and as she became the supposed lone survivor in NYC (was she really? and how did she really know this in a city of millions of people? did she search every single building for survivors?) - her survival skills those first few days REALLY drove me crazy. She grew up in a little farm town in Iowa, and the author states she spent most of her time outside. She didn't learn anything in those days? Seriously? Her lack of concern about how to survive in those few days drove me nuts, and then when she did start manning up and realizing she needed to get out of there, the supplies she went for were not going to suffice. The camping store would have been the first place I would have gone, not the last. One other thing about Emily that didn't sit well with me in the beginning was her lack of emotion over all of the dying people, especially her boyfriend. She had been with him 2 years, and apparently loved him, yet was totally unemotional about his death. I think that could have been written a little better.Overall editing could have been much better. This book has a lot of potential, but just needs some tighter editing and revision. Missed and repeated words, grammar, punctuation, the usual things I have seen with self-published Kindle books. Some of the sentence repeating really bothered me, as in the author would describe something and then a paragraph or page later, would describe the exact same thing using the exact same words. Once could be overlooked, but I saw it multiple times throughout the book.Like I said earlier, I would really have liked to give this book a higher rating. The concept is unique and intriguing, but Emily needed some more meat to her, and some better editing would have been definitely appreciated. I will read the next book, but I hope some of these things can be corrected until the next one comes out. Looking forward to it!
618838447	There is so much I didn't like about this. Emily as a leading character, wasn't a strong enough personality for one. Every now and then there may be a little "fun fact" about her slipped in between scenes but other than that the book is like a to-do list of her day. Maybe the author wanted a very plain generic " everywoman" type of lead. But all this does is make me not care one way or the other about whatever happens to her. Oh and do we know what happens to her!! We know every second of her freakin' life. I kept waiting for her to say she needed to pee and then we would get a couple paragraphs of how she proceeds to relieve her bladder. God, how trivial. This could have actually been summed up into a short story. Another thing that unnerved me. Girl doesn't have her license, so instead of just finding an abandoned car and keys, putting it in drive and pushing the gas peddle, she decides to bike her self to Alaska. From New York. To Alaska. No one else on the roads. No cops. But she wants to bike. Am I the only one scratching my head? Anyone over 16 knows the main points of driving a vehicle even if they've never tried. And would sure as hell try if they were trying to get across the country quickly. And the ultimate mystery surrounding this "extinction", (sorry for all the quotes) was a major let down. I had expected something a little more creative. Something never been done before. But this has been done to death. The beginning of all the chaos is quite interesting and that's why I was so let down by the direction it eventually took. Red rain falling spontaneously from the sky all over Earth. That had my imagination running wild. Grrrrr. I was so let down :( Yeah. This book made me type a sad face. Anyways, to summarize:It's too long. I skimmed all of the final chapters without feeling like I missed anything. Emily is not a good enough leading character. No personality or qualities that made me care whether she survived or not. And the main plot of the story, what the hell is going on, is not that fascinating or new. I would not recommend it to anyone, and I definitely won't read the next book in the series.
297456372	After reading a glowing review of this book from a GoodReads friend and finding that it was available for a mere $2.99 on Kindle, I had to snatch it up. Then, on a sleepless night when I was sick of the never-ending book I was reading, I decided to give this one a try. Oh, sweet popcorn! I was soon devouring this book with eyes flying over the pages at record speeds. Reports of red rain come to New York from Europe shortly before all contact with Europe ceases. So when red rain begins to fall in New York, everyone either panics or goes home to be with loved ones. After the rains, Emily cannot seem to find signs of anyone alive in New York. Even the internet seems to show no signs of life anywhere. Is she the only person left alive? And why did the residue of the rain seem to show signs of intelligence? Was this a terrestrial biological attack or could it have perhaps come from an extraterrestrial source? This book excelled spectacularly as a horror read. I paused from my reading last night while at my favorite coffee shop, went to the restroom, and was startled by a misplaced garbage can. I also found myself double-checking the restroom ceiling. What was I looking for? I'll not give away anything except to say that I definitely was NOT looking for zombies. With many questions left still unanswered at the end of the book, I'm definitely looking forward to the sequel coming in the summer of 2012. This one gets 4.5 stars from me.
1430377142	I'm a bit of a sucker for a good apocalypse it has to be said. Extinction Point was a highly readable example, lone surivor, strange alien goings on, people dropping dead all over the place and the world changing rather significantly.This is a fairly short and quick read following our main protagonist Emily in the 7 days following a mysterious red rain that has wiped everyone else out (and not in a pretty way either, some of the descriptive passages in this novel are rather horrific which all adds to the fun). Emily is preparing to go looking for other survivors. In that interim though she is going to face some very weird goings on.I very much enjoyed the concept and the execution of this one - I was quite fond of Emily, which always helps and I'm admittedly hooked into the narrative now and am going to HAVE to hunt down the sequels and see what is next. This is very much a "Part One" in that there are no answers to be found, simply questions - intriguing questions at that, the flow of it is pretty perfect, it was a 2 sitting read for me.The fact that my chronic impatience kicked in as I read the epilogue bodes well, all in all a pretty great read and I'm looking forward to eventually getting my answers. Recommended for fans of post apocalyptic tales.Happy Reading Folks!
593071412	You know what's one way to really dampen the mood of a post-apocalyptic story that actually has some REALLY good scenes and some REALLY good scares, including a stairwell-turns-dark scene that had me leaning forward in my seat on the subway as I read it?Have the character actually exclaim things like "Ouch!" and act like a wisecracking valley girl just two days into a post-apocalyptic event that wipes out the planet.I don't know. Like I said, this book had some REALLY good scenes and scares, and it was a three-star book up until the parts where the main character, a young reporter named Emily Baxter, just carries on a little too casually for the apparently last person alive in NYC. I mean, c'mon, she's just seen people bleed out and die horrific deaths, and she thinks it's a great time to take a hot bath and eat ice cream like she's on a spa vacation? Her reflections as she's exploring her surroundings are more like those of a preteen on Twitter than a seasoned reporter who just happens to have stumbled onto the greatest story of her life. She takes forever and a day to act on a situation that clearly requires some immediate action, and is a klutz to boot.I guess she's just supposed to be an everywoman. She's remarkably unspectacular, she's not the brightest, and she's just an average woman who rides a bike to work and can't drive a car. Okay, I get it. But for some reason, this everywoman approach just didn't seem to work here. The novel seems to be trying to craft her into someone smarter than the average reporter, someone who just happens to know how to fire a 12-gauge shotgun, and someone whose good sense and miraculous DNA sequencing have made her somehow immune to the red rain. But there is just so little that's remarkable about her, and it seems hardly plausible that she could survive the apocalypse just by wiping down her bike or staying in her apartment.Moreover, the writing was a bit wordy at times and definitely hung on an adverb or two along the way, and my feeling is that the book could have used another round of editing before being ready for prime time. Also, the book is clearly written as the first part of a series, and so leaves a LOT of questions unresolved. I guess this is the author's way of making you buy book two, but I'm not feeling it. I think this story could have been told in one book, or at least made book one much more self-contained so that it didn't have so many loose ends that essentially make this a plot-less read. And, finally, the ending. Okay, you know the drill.Spoiler alert.Don't read on if you don't want to be spoiled.I'm serious! Spoiling is imminent!Okay, here it is...last chance!Seriously, what's up with the magical dog that just happens to show up in the nick of time to save Baxter's derriere? I mean, C'MON MAN! How insane was THAT convenient plot-friendly insertion that had no bearing on anything and no indication that it could even be possible? What, is the answer to how this dog just happened to be there at the right time (and who just happens to understand everything Baxter says to it) in book two? And, seriously, he's named THOR??!! Argh!!!!Yeah, sorry, the book lost a star by the end. Solid intro, solid middle, crappy ending.
289504608	Paul Jones has started a refreshingly unique Post-Apocalyptic series, unlike anything I have read in the genre. Set in the present day, Extinction Point starts out with news of an advancing world-wide phenomena... an intense red colored rain that falls mysteriously at 12:30 PM local time and abruptly stops a few minutes later. Emily Baxter, reporter for a Manhattan based newspaper, finds herself indoors when the thick crimson rain strikes the concrete jungle around her. Careful to avoid contact with the thick red fluid, she reports to work, expecting to find a flurry of activity. She finds the rest of her colleagues speechlessly glued to the news floor's television monitors. Reports from western Europe are sketchy at best...Eastern Europe has stopped transmitting video altogether. As New York City descends into panic, Emily returns to the safety of her apartment, never to emerge into the same world again.Extinction Point brilliantly increased the tension with each successive chapter, as the menace of Earth's apparent demise slowly unravels around her. Nothing is what it initially seems, as Emily ventures into her new world. She is the apparent sole survivor of an extinction level event, but her loneliness is replaced by horror, as she starts to make inexplicable and disturbing discoveries.The author has a talent for description, immersing the reader in the solace of an empty city. His true talents for description shine, as more of the "red rain's" true purpose is revealed. Paul Jones' ability to bring complex concepts to life through description and narrative is awe inspiring. Few authors could successfully create the world that emerges after the "red rain." Even fewer could relate the experience to readers in such vivid detail. I thoroughly enjoyed Emily's transition into survivor mode. Shuttered in her apartment, she reluctantly comes to terms with the fact that she has to leave the city. The author chose to make this difficult for her...as a true New Yorker, she never learned how to drive. She is bicycle bound, which adds a whole new dimension to her survival story. Readers will enjoy watching her prepare for the trek out of the city, and may even argue with her as she shops empty stores and adds gear to the limited list she can carry. The story is punctuated by realistic periods of slowdown and reflection, as the main character contemplates the strange phenomena outside of her apartment, but the author keeps the tension level high. The "new world" continuously changes around her, unveiling the alien-intelligent design of the world's metamorphosis. I couldn't wait for her to turn another corner. I eagerly await the next installment in this series, which will clearly plunge Emily into an increasingly unfamiliar world, as she treks north.
307110745	While building on a popular apocalyptic theme, there is more than enough original plot and imagination to set this book apart from the crowd. Think The Day of the Triffids meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers meets I am Legend and you still won't have grasped the full scope of the apocalypse in Paul Jones' artfully crafted tale of extinction and survival. Five stars for this up and coming author. I can't wait for the sequel. If I were to offer any criticism of this book, besides being too short (LOL), it is that Emily Baxter, being a newspaper reporter, should be taking pictures on her cell phone, or at least writing in a notebook or using a tape recorder, as she witnesses the apocalypse. I think a reporter would want to chronicle the amazing and horrific events, even if she wasn't sure there would be anyone left to read/see/hear them. Her journalistic descriptions might have fleshed out even more of her well developed character traits and clarified her impressions of the apocalypse. Journal entries would also be a way to break up the descriptive narrative in a novel that does not have a lot of dialogue between characters. Just a thought.Nevertheless, this was a first-class read and I have high expectations for the sequel. I'll also be adding Towards Yesterday to my reading list! Bravo, Mr. Jones. Keep up the great work.
518533000	I picked this one up on my Kindle a bit ago & decided to give it a go. For some reason I was thinking it was post-apocalyptic zombies but alas it was better. It was alien invasion! It's been a while since I've read a good alien story so I was thrilled as the story unfolded. We follow Emily, who is seemingly the lone human survivor in NYC after a strange weather phenomena & it's through her eyes that we experience everything that comes with that. One would think that being the last human would be the worst thing to contemplate but then you realize it's not when the metamorphoses begin. And when that seems like the worst, it's not, the things that result from the metamorphoses start running around. All I can say is, it was icky, creepy & I loved every minute. I want to complain about her not checking Twitter & FB more quickly or thinking to get the hell out of the city faster but then there'd be no story & things wouldn't have been able to unfold as they had to. Also, I completely bought the emotional toll this whole thing took on Emily & her desire to hold on just a little longer to her familiar surroundings. I've pre-ordered the next book because I need to know how Em & Thor will make out. Maybe there'll be others to meet along the way of this trip to Alaska. Also, I am looking forward to Jacob & the rest of the people at the base camp possibly having new information to impart. In the whole book, I think there were only three typos, so no complaints on the usual indie "strikes against" list. Well done!
1341238834	This brings a fun and new twist to the Apocalypse genre. I honestly did not have any idea what to expect, but this book pulled me in from the start. Obviously no spoilers, but this twisted little story introduces you to a strong, smart female protagonist in Emily Baxter.Now, I will say that this first book is set up, and it leaves A LOT of open questions. There were scenes where I really wanted to know what the heck was going on with the various "things" that formed after the red rain. I will be continuing this adventure very soon.***Note for the audio version, the narrator was fantastic and helped to convey Emily's personality very well. She even managed to handle the rough job of capturing a "screaming cry" without blowing out my ears.***
1050864869	Truly dull.Which is amazing considering the post-apocalyptic-alien-food-goo-premise. Terrible main character, abysmal writing style.
515549031	25% and I was still skimming, waiting for something other than her every move and inner thought to be described in excruciating detail, nope, time to move on.
4996226161	Found this book one of a series rather pedestrian in execution. The Idea is interesting - a red rain which instantly kills birds and after a delay, people, only to revive and repurpose them with devastating effect. Unlike many similar tales, it's not a standard zombie apocalypse. However the protagonist, a female New York reporter, is a really irritating character who makes so many silly mistakes it becomes impossible to believe she would survive. Even her choices of clothing to take when she finally decides to leave the devastated city aren't sensible. She has the option to take fleeces and other modern walking kit from the camping shop she raids but keeps the woolly jumpers from home, items that, far from wicking away moisture as the narrative states, would become saturated. She takes tinned food and bottled water rather than the dried food and water purification means the shop offers. And despite being armed with a shotgun her reaction when faced with a nasty creature in New York is to shut her eyes and wait for it to kill her. The style is clunky because every little action tends to be spelled out: for example, we aren't just told that the character removes an object from her backpack, but every little stage of unzipping a particular pocket etc.The story is also dragged out, taking the whole of the first volume to escape the city. Luckily I didn't have to pay and also obtained volume two or might have found that more annoying. But I can't rate it as more than an "OK" 2 stars.
1683996358	So...my honest, unbiased critique of this book...I would advise you to not waste your money on this one. Seriously.I shall start with protagonist Emily Baxter. From what I read, it became blatantly obvious that author was a male and not a female, and one that has no clue at all what goes through our minds. He had no clue what life is like living in farm country, no clue the way people talk to one another, and definitely no clue what passes for reality.Emily grew up on a farm in Ohio. She never learned to drive because everything she needed was within biking distance. Uhm..Ohio has some pretty cold, snowy winters sir. There will be no bike riding in the middle of winter, with snow and ice and freezing temperatures. There will be no riding a bike to the store, or school, or work in the winter in farm country. The second you hit a pocket of thick snow, you will be stuck. The second a storm hits, you will have no shelter, you will probably die from hypothermia. Living on a farm, you are isolated. I grew up on a farm in rural MI, and the nearest store from my house was 10 miles away. My nearest neighbor, 4 miles. The fact that you used "everything was in biking distance" as a reason for not learning to drive, made me realize what a waste of time this book was going to be. You stated all Emily ever wanted to do was escape farm life and go to the city. Are you telling me she biked with all her belongings to New York from Ohio? Not happening. Every teenager, outaide of huge cities dreams of something bigger than where they grow up. They learn to drive to escape. The second thing was that you said it was hard for her to date because she had a hard time finding someone who could accept her way of talking worse than a sailor...this is america in 2016. People casually drop swear words in practically every sentence.Emily is supposed to be a reporter, but she has zero common sense. The reasoning behind her decisions and actions are unbelievable. She lives in a tiny apartment because she can't afford better at the moment. Yet, she has no food in her fridge or cupboards. New York is one of the most expensive places to live. She probably pays astronomically high bills, and goes out to eat at every meal? Must not be very bright.So she is a reporter, all she cares about is her reporting, she wants to further her career..blah blah. so why is it, when she goes into the cafe and the blood rain begins, is she taking no pictures, writing no notes. She doesn't document anything. Totally makes sense...She just...she's stupid. She is unlikable. She's annoying. She's stupid. Did I say she's stupid? When her boyfriend dies a horrible bloody death right in front of her, she's completely unfazed. Some of her first thoughts are about how to remove his body from the apartment. There was no grief. No shock. Nothing. To try and find information about what is going on, her very first calls are made to major government organizations, buildings, and make no sense. She calls the white house. The CIA. The FBI. Call the CDC. WHO. The White House would never, ever be anyone's first resort for information unless they worked there and knew someone. So...Emily thinks that it is smarter/easier to ride a bicycle from New York to Alaska rather than teach herself how to drive. She thinks it is safer and smarter to take two plus weeks riding a bicycle, instead of like 70 hours (3 days) driving. Where is the logic in this? Her packing..She packed a double burner stove. Several gallons of water. A ridiculous amount of clothing, boots, winter coat, extra underwear...but almost no food. She thinks it is going to be simple and easy to scavenge for things required for survival but not clean clothes. Not to mention she thinks it is ok to go in people's houses and take the food and water and whatever else she might need, but finds it disrespectful to sleep on their beds? What? I hated this book. Hated it. Emily is unlikable. The plot was pointless. 95% of this book was over detailed events of her riding her bike, her talking to herself, her just being dumb.I would honestly love to know how this book has such positive reviews. They just can't be real. There are not this many unintelligent, stupid people who enjoy poorly written drivel. So beyond terrible.I would throw this in the trash if it wasn't an ebook.(sorry for typos, reviewing on my phone)
475933403	Extinction point is interesting. It's a pretty big chore to get me to read a book with very little dialog. I probably could've given this one four big whopping stars if not for one small detail...SHE'S PLANNING TO RIDE A BIKE FROM NEW YORK TO ALASKA!!!! #stupid.Seriously, her motive for choosing to ride a bike is that she never learned to drive a car. You know what type of person can't drive a car? Little people who can't reach the pedals and people without feet, who can't reach the pedals.It seriously ruined the book for me, you know how long it takes to figure out how to drive a car? 5 minutes. If a 15 year old kid can learn, I think a 30 year old woman would pick it up ok. Deserted highways and zero traffic...Make it work. Seriously, she's going to scavenge and carry a day or two worth of food on her bicycle... Uggh, can't take it, DRIVE A FREAKING CAR! Pile all the cans of food and crap you want into that baby. What are you going to do? Travel a hundred miles a day 6-8 hours worth of pedaling a day, uphill sometimes, weighted down but tons of food and water. Oh wait, now she has a dog, now you're going to have to go even slower. Enjoy the 40 years its going to take you to travel 3000+ (or however many miles it is) through mountains and frigid weather on your bicycle. Unless she gets a car in book 2, I won't be reading it. Because as interesting as the premise is I just can't get past the absurdity of the bike.
318651231	I honestly don’t pay much attention to the bestseller’s list anymore. I get my reading material free from Amazon. Yes, it is risky. Not all of the novels are worth reading and many are not edited properly (see previous post on the New Novel), but now and then you find a gem!I just finished reading Extinction Point by Paul Jones and couldn’t put it down. (see below for synopsis) There were two or three minor typos, but the story was so engaging that it really didn’t hinder my enjoyment of the story. It is the first in a series. I’m not exactly a fan of novels that just end and you have to wait months for the sequel (example Justin Cronin’s Passages…still waiting, Justin!). Jones promises the sequel in August though, so I will definitely read it when it comes out.The reviews at Amazon are almost all favorable ones albeit the general consensus on the use of a bike rather than a car and the minute detail used as the main character prepares for her journey (read the book and you’ll know what I mean!). The plot and the conflicts are engaging and the main character is interesting and well formed.The book is no longer on the free list, but it is priced at $2.99, so it is well worth your while if you enjoy the sci-fi and/or post apocalyptic novels.
1436350131	'Extinction Point' by Paul Antony Jones is the first book in a series, and it's a pretty good one. I tell you that so you understand that the story does not really stand alone in this volume.Reporter Emily Baxter is a reporter living in New York. Really early on in the book (so you don't think this is a spoiler), a weird weather phenomenom occurs which bathes the earth in red rain. Emily finds herself unaffected as everyone around her succumbs to the effects of the rain. Emily watches the world around her change rapidly. What begins to happen next proves to Emily that the world no longer belongs to humans. Is she truly alone and what will she do to survive?It moved along rather quickly and I liked the main character well enough. The book ends with her still on her journey, so I'll definitely read the later books in the series.I received a review copy of this ebook from Amazon Publishing, 47 North, and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this ebook.
383918701	Although the concept is good, and the author does a good job with the scenes involving the other worldly creatures, the book needs to be edited to make it a tighter read. Explaining every move the main character makes is unnecessary. A pet peeve of mine with sequels is when the first book can't really stand alone because it is more like a movie trailer. It gets you interested, but nothing is really resolved. At the end you feel like you were just left hanging after all that build-up.All this makes me wonder that if instead of being two books (?), the whole story could be tightened up and offered in one satisfying novel.
288238370	OMG..... Totally loved this book, it has to have been the most creepiest atmospheric scifi I have read in a long time. It made my heart race . Not a good idea to read certain sections late at night. It haunted me to the point where every squeak + rattle of my central heating made me jump. Kudos to Mr Jones for giving me a good thrill.... but don't leave me hanging too long for book 2 !!!!
1110411645	This is the story of Emily who finds herself alone in New York with a red dust/haze that is taking over everything, including people. She does not know how to drive (WHAT?) so she rides her bike. This is very odd to me. I have driven since I was 16 and can't imagine not knowing how to or not being able to drive. Anyway, she finds herself communicating by radio to a group in Alaska who have survived because the red stuff does not do cold. She also wants to be with the only other people she has heard or or seen. She starts her trip, on a new bike she finds in a bike shop, and finds some very interesting scary things out there. A little dog saves her life and they continue on together. There is lots of scary stuff along the way, and I was listening to this book, although I had read it a year ago or so. I wanted to get up on Emily so I could read the next books that are not out. A good read, no zombies in this one. Just really alien scary things.
316877449	I got this free when was offered for a short time. It was worth it. Yes, I caught a few editing mistakes, but then I find them in all book. What I liked is that caught me and dragged me into the story. I didn't stop until I had it done in a few days—unusual these days as a writer I only read a night in bed as other times I am writing or promoting my own works (a far cry from those old days as a plain reader able to finish a book in couple of days).I can not wait for the sequel. If you like those War of the Worlds type of movies or books, then you will enjoy this book.
298211171	I picked this book up during a free deal period and wow am I glad I did. This was a very well written book and one that I couldn't put down.The main character was well written and you really felt for her and the addition of the partner at the end was great and pulled on my heart stringsIf you like end of mankind, biological alien invasion stories, then you love this book.
1554422474	Неплохая история :) конец света, инопланетяне, все дела :) люблю такие истории, в мозгу сразу срабатывает, что мол надо запомнить полезные детали для выживания, ну знаешь вдруг тааам прилеееееетит злой инопланетный дядя :)) в общем, с книги не плевалась :) понравилось :)
1993024553	I kind of went into this book blind, and boy am I glad I did. What a fantastic thrill-ride of a book. The premise initially sounded kind of stupid, and I won't say this book doesn't have some glaringly dumb points, but if you suspend disbelief in some cases (as you must with most fiction, especially sci-fi) it's a good read. The world all but ends at the on-set of a blood-like rain. 8 hours later, everyone is dead, except Emily (completely inexplicably). She is entirely alone in New York City. The entire book spans 7 days, but I feel like that's a bit arbitrary. It more or less matches what she's doing, as it's written basically sun up to sun down, but so much of the events happen SO FAST that it's hard to believe. For instance, I doubt the power would go out in only 2 days in a city as massive as NYC without human interaction. The vegetable section of a grocer would not rot into a pulpy mess in only 3 days. People have vegetables on their counter far longer than that. There were some other cases where I just kind of shook my head and moved on. Otherwise, it's a pretty tense book. There are some legitimately scary moments, especially (view spoiler)[ when the aliens start hatching and Emily is running away in the dark. Great scene! (hide spoiler)] I like how she has to figure out what to do, tries figuring out what's going on, but so much is just a total mystery to her. (view spoiler)[Eventually, when it comes to the aliens, I thought this was handled quite well. The aliens are very alien, intriguing and weird and felt natural, as opposed to some attacking force essentially equal to human except in appearance. These were just creatures going about their business, but with some level of intelligence. The conversations with the remote team were sparse, but that's okay as it didn't matter much yet. Maybe in the next book. (hide spoiler)]The book is reminiscent in ways to I Am Legend (one of my favorites) and some others, but definitely different enough to be it's own unique thing. I definitely look forward to reading the next in the series. One of my biggest complaints is that it ended too soon. The ending is essentially in the middle of a book, and this one is quite short, so I'm not sure the reasoning (besides making it a series for more money) for cutting it there.
2123913750	I listened to this story on Audible and while it's a great idea... I had a really hard time getting past the main character's inconsistencies and ridiculous oddities. 1. She lives in NY, so she doesn't drive. That's acceptable. However, she's apparently "afraid" of driving a car on completely deserted roads (or off road- grab an SUV for pete's sake).2. She decides to head off to Alaska on a BICYCLE. From New York. Alone. Okay.....3. She decides against packing freeze dried food, because she has canned food. Which is easier to carry on a bike? Just curious.4. She packs a 2 burner camp stove. A 2 BURNER CAMP STOVE. Plus propane to fuel it. Huh. Why does she need 2 burners?5. If you're going to head across the country because of an alien invasion and everybody is dead, and you are incapable of driving a vehicle, why not grab a small trailer to haul behind your bike? She's got clothing, camping gear (No tent though, because she's apparently only going to be traveling through towns and will just break into homes to shelter.) canned food, bottled water, a camp stove and fuel, a shot gun, a flashlight, a sat phone... and it's all in her backpack and bike storage. 6. If everybody is dead because of an alien invasion and you are the last person on earth and you are going on a 3000 mile trip ON YOUR BIKE, please be concerned about changing your underwear everyday. 7. She's a reporter and pretty much just an average woman. Then she attacks an alien in a chrysalis with a kitchen knife. Why? Why not just get what you came for and leave? So now she's RAMBO. It just goes on and on. This story has great potential, but I found myself yelling at the narrator and rolling my eyes constantly at the ridiculousness of it.
3088132162	A strong beginning with a red rain that is comming throught the world, beginning in russia. Later, it becomes clear that people in Europe are dying, and that everything east of berlim has died, but the strange blood rain already fall in NY.Emily is our protagonist but she is not so interesting as the author thinks. She could be a good YA protagonist, for instance. The main problem is (view spoiler)[almost everybody in the world dies with the rain. So there are NO other characters. Just her. And the whole book is she getting out of NY (hide spoiler)] She eventually get in contact with a artic base, with a dozen living people. You guess they will be their human counterpart to relieve solitude and to make dialogue - no, they don´t come up. When she should meet another characters, time passes on her survivalists adventures, and instead of getting out of new york really quickly, she meanders day after day. It takes her an entire day to go to her old work and retrieve a solar powered phone (that she don´t even use to talk to the artic people and tell the new information).Many readers comment on details. It would be a small point but the problem is that not much happens, so we follow every little detail of what she is taking in her trip, like clothes, food, water, gps, phone, stove burning, gas, more clothes, feminine hygiene products, tools for the bycicle... compare this with the same scene in The Stand - two survivors walk out of NY on foot with packbags. In a later scene they are camping, we don´t need to consider if they could carry tents, burners, food, water, etc. That´s the power of brief narration.It needed urgently the introduction of new characters real early (even a companion dog is introduced already in the second third)do you recommend? - just for a quick reading of the beginning, that is funny. After the tragedy, the author doesn´t know what to do with the story so it is a good book to lend from your library
2062718140	Sloooooow.Not a lot really happens in the whole book.I did get interested when the red dust came. Wondering what might happen, was it nano bots or? Who knows...Seems a virus is the best guess of the characters. But an intelligent one that moves like a sentient being? Then grows into Aliens from the dead bodies of humans.New York has a sh#tload of people who all died and turned into aliens but she is able to just ride her bike around without seeing aliens most of the time. They should be EVERYWHERE. Nope. Since halfway through the book she has been preparing to go to Alaska. Wait, wait, wait. Nope not there yet. Getting ready to ride a bike there cause figuring out how to drive would be too hard... Check reviews of the next book and it seems the next one is all about the journey to get there! This one is about discovering the new world then planning for the journey. Geez. Too slow for me.
556628581	Originally reviewed on Kirkus' SFF BlogDeath was coming for her. She knew and waited. It would be just a matter of seconds before she joined Nathan and the millions of victims around the world who had already succumbed to this violent, insidious, red plague. What was strange, though, was the inevitability of calmness within her mind as everything complicated in her life ceased to matter. Now her only responsibility was to wait.In Paul Antony Jones’ Extinction Point, Emily Baxter is your typical New York career woman—she’s smart and dedicated to her job (a reporter for a major newspaper), a non-driver and a transplant from a different part of the country. On a day just like any other, she heads out to work, stops at her favorite deli to get some lunch, and checks the news. A strange red rain has swept through Europe, and it’s not long before it hits New York City in a humid, bloody downpour. Then, reports from Europe start rolling in—people exposed to the deluge are dying, bleeding out of every orifice. Emily is with her boyfriend when the same symptoms kick in on the East Coast, and she watches in horror as he violently hemorrhages to death before her eyes. She knows it is only a matter of moments before she, too, dies, just like everyone else on the planet.But as the minutes, then hours, tick by, Emily remains alive. Unharmed. Untouched.She tries to find other lucky, inexplicable survivors like herself, only to discover that New York City is a ghost town completely devoid of any life—no humans, no animals, just oppressive, complete silence.And then the really strange stuff starts to happen.The red rain turns into some strange kind of sentient dust, and the bodies of the dead start...changing. The planet Earth no longer belongs to humans, and Emily has to leave the city before she joins the legion of her near-extinct species.Extinction Point is Paul Antony Jones’ second novel, originally self-published as an ebook to significant success and re-released from Amazon’s SFF imprint, 47North. It’s easy to see why Extinction Point found such a niche with the science fiction crowd—this is a page-turning, apocalyptic thriller that manages to imbue some nice original twists to a more familiar setup. Conceptually, Extinction Point is fantastic: What if there were a biological agent that could wipe out almost all sentient life on planet Earth? Humans, gone. Animals—from birds to dogs to flies—gone, all in a matter of hours. This is complete and total annihilation, but happens without devastating the planet’s natural resources or ecology.[1] And then, the aliens (yes, aliens) move in...by taking over the vacated bodies of the living, and changing them into something new and decidedly NOT human.The alien invasion angle is not new, but it’s one of my favorite apocalypse scenarios. Extinction Point has shades of some of the greats: Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Footfall, The War of the Worlds. Heck, even Independence Day. What sets this book apart is its treatment of these particular invading aliens—they don’t really care about survivors because they are ridiculously, statistically insignificant. In the entire city of New York, Emily is the only surviving person (or, at least, she doesn’t run into anyone or anything else) and she makes her slow way around the abandoned metropolis, I Am Legend–style, looking to amass supplies and come up with a plan to leave before things get really hairy.While the underlying concept behind Extinction Point is solidly memorable, the writing is somewhat wanting. Every detail of Emily’s thought process and the minutiae of her day are frequently laid out for the reader, in play-by-play, laundry-list fashion. When Emily picks up a backpack, or changes her clothes, or decides to towel herself off with tepid bathwater, we hear her read about every single step of the process in great detail. Similarly, there are a number of repeated phrases, images and needlessly detailed plot points that could easily be removed from the book. On the character front, Emily also feels a little off—she’s driven and smart, but I’m not entirely sure I believe in her as a young journalist (her actions, thoughts and phrases feel more in tune with an older person).Criticisms said, I still devoured Extinction Point in a single sitting and cannot wait to return to this post-apocalyptic world as Emily continues to make her way north. A recommended, fun, summer blockbuster-type of read.In Book Smugglerish, an entertained 6.5 alien spiders out of 10.[1] Ok, I’m lying a little bit. We don’t really know the full scope of the annihilation of life on Earth in Extinction Point. And, as we know, an ecosystem relies on every living organism within that contained environment—so when you kill off large animals, small animals, or even microorganisms, this has dramatic shocks on the system at large. I’m not sure that Extinction Point cares about this—and honestly, in the framework of this story, neither do I. Suspension of disbelief and all that jazz.
1990792435	Interesting concept , repetitive story at times.
4953933359	An easy read, im not sure if I will read anymore in the series, the protagonist lacked depth and this spoiled it for me a bit
4870982665	Very compelling reading—the pacing was fantastic. I will read more of the series.
2880450725	My dad asked me to get him some books and one of them was this one.I was intrigued by the description and decided to give it a try myself. Ended up reading all 5 books. No idea when I began but I know when I finished book 5 that was July 31.I very much enjoyed this book because it was so different from the dystopian after the world ends books I have read before.
3612289977	Wow, a lot of negative reviews. I found this to a be fun and quick read. I wasn’t bothered by the things others talked about. It didn’t really cover any major new ground but the overall story worked fine for me. I like Emily, the main character, and was interested enough to buy the second book to see where it takes her. Certainly a good summer post-apocalyptic read if you;re not looking for anything too deep.
4237930038	Was OK I guess .. probably a 2.5 starStarted off interesting enough but got a little tedious in the middle.
2620708425	This book, Extinction Point, was recommended to me by a work colleague of mine who really enjoyed it. So, further to his recommendation, I thought I'd read the book, however, unlike my colleague, I was less than impressed with it.My main issue with this book is that the pace is unnecessarily slow, more attention is devoted to describing actions in minute detail than on progressing the story. It wasn't until I added this book to my Goodreads' account that I learnt that it is only the first instalment in a series consisting of five books and one short story. As a result of this being part of a series, I can see what the author has done, used every technique available to him to stretch out the story over the course of a series. The contents of this book could easily have been condensed into a fraction of the size without losing anything.Am I being a little too harsh?No. The title of the book, Extinction Point, informs the reader that this book is about some kind of "extinction event". Therefore, no reader will be surprised to learn this book contains an "extinction event", although the book makes no attempt to answer any questions around this "extinction event". At the centre of the story is the character of Emily Baxter, who seems to be the only person alive after the falling of "red" rain. Later in the book we learn that the bodies of the dead humans are metamorphosising into strange insect-like creatures who seek out other similar creatures and physically join with them in the construction of mysterious towers. Emily Baxter must find a way to survive in this new world and seek out the few remaining survivors she has managed to make contact with. That's it, that's the story of this book in a nutshell.The premise of this book, whether it be described as "the last man on earth" or "surviving in a post-apocalypse world", is not new, it has been depicted countless times over the years in many books, films, and TV programmes, notable examples include I Am Legend by Richard Matheson or The Stand by Stephen King. There's a typical pattern of how events in these kinds of stories unfold: 1. Some kind of "extinction event" wipes out large numbers of the population. 2. A person (or persons) somehow survives and sets out to seek other survivors. 3. Apart from the few survivors, the world is now full of other evil creatures, these could be zombies, aliens, or even other humans. 4. The few survivors struggle to survive and create a new life for themselves in this post-apocalypse world. 5, There is some kind of a showdown between the survivors and the evil creatures. 6. The "extinction event" is finally explained as some kind of virus created by humans, or an alien invasion, or something similar.Any story which merely follows a standard formula, simply retelling something which has already been told without offering anything new, is unlikely to generate much interest. The only things new, and slightly interesting, in Extinction Point are the strange insect-like creatures who have replaced humans. This book feels more like a prequel to a bigger story, which would explain why nothing is fully explained or resolved by the end of the book. The purpose of the first instalment in any series is to generate enough interest in the story for the next instalment. Because of its predictable nature, by the end of the Extinction Point I had lost all interest in the story, and as I no longer cared about things properly resolved or explained, I will not be reading any of the later instalments. I found Extinction Point to be nothing more than a cynical attempt to get readers interested in the story enough to want to read more of the series.
595827969	3.5 Stars, truly. A fresh spin on the apocalypse (read: no zombies) creates a fast read exploring a very exciting new world. While the first installment is addicting enough to get me to the second, I do so hoping the next installment makes the main character more active in resolving action scenes and display better survival instincts. I'm also unsure where the armed services (equipped with rain jackets) come into play to resolve the global dilemma.Positives: I'm a sucker for stories starting within an hour of the apocalypse. Not only did I get that in spades here (action, characterization), but the details of how were unique enough to add a fresh take to a genre I fear is wearing out its welcome. Okay, maybe poisonous rain isn't entirely unique, but I haven't read anything that used it well, and what is to come after the rain is strange and horrific. I enjoyed the survival prep and action to come, but that also leads into my negatives.Negatives: $2.99 is a good price for a book, but this feels more like Part 1 than it does a complete book. Ebook popularity makes issuing books in portions a sustainable model, but it is frustrating having to pay more to get past the opening act.I'm pretty sure I'll end up buying the next "book," but I'm really hoping the author improves on two major problems with this story:First, it was very hard to believe that she would be the only survivor she'd see simply because she was in a coffee shop at the time of the rain. What about everyone else that was inside during the short rain? Apparently, either everyone else ran outside and stuck out their tongues for a taste, or some survived, but hid inside the whole time. The author alludes to this possibility that others must be hiding, but the lack of anyone going outside to explore felt like more of a plot convenience than a reality.Second, the main character makes some odd survivalist choices. One of the first things I would do if I lived in a New York City apartment is raid the dead neighbors' food supplies, but she doesn't because their doors are locked. She finds an axe and ends up breaking into one later, so it turns out that wasn't an issue. Then she bikes around (no car, doesn't know how to drive), and I'm wondering how hard it would be even if she never drove to ease her leg muscles and not bike sixty some blocks to a bike store. She stops at stores, but doesn't eat food or drink water there, just takes some for later. I thought, why not replenish your body with what's on site, so you don't have to use your supplies later?Third, even though I was impressed with the horror the author invokes, the action is very passive. I can't get into more without spoiling, but our main character gets awfully lucky (in every instance). If the author doesn't really amp up the main character's role in resolving future conflict, I'm going to bail on this series. I already might. The description of action is well-written, but the great build up is let down by weak resolution.
549355013	Pleasantly surprised by this book. It tells the story of a seemingly lone survivor of an alien invasion of Earth. We follow Emily as she wakes up in this new, eerily quiet world and tries to wrap her head around what has happened. Throughout her new reality, strange things are moving, gathering and forming. And at first, they are seemingly oblivious to Emily's presence. Emily wisely realizes she needs to get out of town...quickly. We ride along with her as she packs and prepares for her journey out of NYC to her destination of a far away, friendly (but is it?) voice on the phone somewhere in the cold, frigid North above her. Along the way she uses (the author uses) her journalistic background to (sometimes painstakingly) describe all of the weird, new things she discovers on her way. And these things are indeed weird and also a bit gross and increasingly dangerous. I can't count the number of times I wanted to yell at Emily to take a frigging photo! Surely that phone of hers had a camera on it, surely she could pick up a disposable camera so that she can document this stuff for future scientific purposes. But I suppose this is just my love of photography and science talking. And I suppose that is the point, Emily's background is journalism and we are lucky that it is. Although some of Emily's reactions to things seemed a little wrong to me and I often found myself thinking as I was reading, that's not what I would do, on balance this was a well thought, well written story and it didn't really matter. I found myself looking forward to seeing what Emily would do or discover next and to anxiously see how she got out of the current dilemma. I was just happy to be along for the (bike) ride. Although I normally shy away from series books, it looks like this is the wave of the future, at least in scifi. There were a lot of unanswered questions in this first book and I look forward to finding the answers to those questions and reading about the future adventures of Emily (and Thor!).as an aside: the author Paul is a GR AW Group member and I smiled when I saw that this first book is even graciously dedicated in part to AW's fantastic moderator, Gertie.
641453243	Extinction Point and its sequel Exodus are apocalyptic candy, where one woman finds herself alone in world, which has been wiped out by a biological alien invasion. I must confess, this book scared me … (I am easily spooked.) But Jones’ story also kept me reading and reading and reading. I had to find out what happens next, discover what wiped out life on Earth and witness alongside Emily the end of our world and the birth of a terrifying new one. This book is a page-turning thriller with a fantastically designed story. What if you were the last living person in New York, what if the only other survivor you know of was 4500 miles away and what if the millions of human carcasses around you would slowly transform into something alien and frightening. Paul Antony Jones has a few really great angles towards the alien invasion apocalypse and he knows how to spice it up with good horror moments, too: A bit from Ridley Scott’s Alien movies, H.G. Wells’ The War of the Worlds or I Am Legend.While the concept of the story is really captivating, the author’s somewhat domineering love for details is NOT. As much as I did enjoy half of the book, the other half was boring enough to skip. It’s not so interesting really which clothes Emily packs into her backpack, and how many other things she places in that backpack and especially not where exactly she places every object in the backpack. It’s the same with changing clothes, riding her bike, or making herself a cup or coffee. Those needlessly prolonged chapters could have been easily removed and besides, it would have done the novel a great favor.In spite of the minor criticism points, I still demolished Extinction Point in a single sitting like a big tub of New York Super Fudge Chunk Ben & Jerry’s ice cream.You can read my review on http://litslut.wordpress.com/
1565195490	** spoiler alert ** This is the first book I've ever read where I was rooting for the main character to die. So many face-palm moments that my forehead is bruised. Some of my more notable face-palm moments...1) At one point we all know the red rain kills. Instead of stripping off her clothes and taking an ammonia bath (that's what I'd do) Emily chills watching TV with her red-rain covered boyfriend on the couch sipping diet soda. "Red rain turns people inside-out? ...Ouuu, a Friends marathon!"2) Emily basically watches her boyfriend explode in her kitchen and never thinks about him after she throws his dead-@$$ body into her neighbor's apartment. 3) Before the power was off Emily first tries to call the pentagon before checking THE INTERNET. BTW, it was day #3 before used the Internet to find survivors.4) After Emily is aware that her apartment complex is crawling with aliens she go off and gets supplies - only to return to her apartment?! Well, you gotta get a good night sleep hiding in your closet when all you need to survive is only 17 floors down. -=shrug=-5) When Emily is FINALLY on her way she decides to take a bike instead of learning to drive one of the many cars on the highway (with keys inside) because biking to Canada laden with supplies is TOTALLY a good idea.6) When Emily sees an alien forest in her way she doesn't go around it...oh no, she goes through it. Because she hasn't learned anything at this point. (Btw, this is where I started rooting for her to die.)7) When Emily is inevitably chased through the alien forest (duh), she decides to carry her bike (laden with supplies) in front of her while running...was she a power lifter on the weekends?No, I won't be reading the next books in the series. Just wasn't my cup of tea.
307181579	https://celebrityreaders.com/2020/10/...ORIGINAL REVIEW:4 stars — Oh dear…that was totally out of my normal realm of reading…. Very well written, great descriptions…I actually felt like I was there, and frankly I was terrified. Honestly, the only reason it didn’t get to more stars was my own personal taste….I tend to get really into books, and that’s not so good in a disturbing world like this. And I totally didn’t know this was going to be a series, so now I have to wait patiently and then read even more in a world where I’m not exactly comfortable, but I’m gripped anyways… Plus, Thor just put the final nail in that coffin. Well done Paul Jones. Well done.ON REREAD:3.5 stars — I still only have the old indie version, not the rereleased by 47North version, so that’s what I reread. Not sure what changed when it was republished. I’m hoping they cleaned up a lot of the editing mistakes, and the UKisms that were sprinkled throughout (tinned vs canned, Bergen, some weird word for tarmac/pavement).I still don’t read basically *any* horror, so for me this was still very atmospheric and frightening…but I’m a super chicken, so take that into account.I sometimes found that Emily’s reactions were unreasonable, but then it felt more like it was delayed or compartmentalizing, and then that actually felt pretty realistic. It’s really hard reading a book with basically 1 character — I’m used to enjoying secondary characters.But then again, there was Thor. I forgot how late he comes in. I love him. I need more of him.So yeah…definitely curious to see what comes in the next book, but I’m also kind of afraid. Definitely not a book I can read in a house all alone, or at night all alone.
6432315689	** spoiler alert ** DNF'd at 50%. Only got that far because the premise of the alien invasion was very interesting and I was waiting for that matter to take more importance over Emily. I'm giving 1 star only because I can't give 0 or negative stars.My main gripes: -Terrible writing style. Most of the book consists of lengthy, unnecessary descriptions of environments that have no weight on the plot whatsoever. No, I do not need to know the exact list of supplies Emily is grabbing or in what order she's packing them into what bags. This is inconsequential. And the prose is bad and pretentious.-Tiresome American pop culture references every few sentences. No, I do not need to know what brands the main character is consuming.-Absurd plot. Main character doesn't give a shit about the death of their loved ones or the entire planet, does not even try to learn to drive even when all cars are free for the taking and the roads are clear; deciding instead to pack an impossible amount of supplies on their bike and cycle all the way to Alaska from New York. I stopped reading by this point, but as the other readers pointed out, the plot just kept getting sillier with the appearance of the heckin' doggerino as deus-ex-machina. What a tired trope. To make matters worse, the ending is inconclusive. Absolutely nothing of matter happened in this book. I'm guessing one could start reading the sequels This book should NOT have been approved by the publisher. I would say it feels childish in every sense, but giving this to a child would be criminal. I wish it had not been recommended to me.
4350080681	Good concept bad execution Original concept but the writing is not well past highscool composition grade. Also, the plot holes and the unbeliable stupidity of the protagonist are enough reasons not to continue with the series.
290156709	Extinction Point by Paul Jones was a good read, but expectations kind of got in the way for me. I love post-apocalyptic fiction and this novel definitely fits that bill, but I wasn't expecting science fiction. And science fiction is a better label for Extinction Point than post-apocalypse. Having said that, the science fiction elements were still interesting even if rather weird. I would give the first one-third of the book five stars. Great set up of the main character, Emily Baxter, and a wonderfully suspenseful "end of the world." However the remaining two-thirds got bogged down in describing Emily's every action in excruciating (but nicely written) detail. She packed so many things. I also couldn't help but question her mode of transportation. It was kind of a joke. There is no way she could make it where she is going on a bicycle. The last problem I had with Extinction Point were the last three words: To be continued... In spite of the negatives I mentioned, I liked the book (hence the four stars), but I'm not sure I want to read more of the same.
707520877	I agree with other reviews I've read elsewhere (i.e. Amazon), that while the premise is tried and true, it's engaging, but what drags this novella down are the scatterbrained actions of the protagonist Emily Baxter. Emily is a New Yorker who doesn't drive, no big deal, I get that, it makes sense to me. However, the fact that Emily won't learn to drive, won't even attempt to learn, in the face of a massive alien invasion/terraforming operation that destroys mankind and forces here into a thousands of miles long escape journey defies logic. For me that made every other difficulty she faces as she began to RIDE A BICYCLE away from the aliens annoying. I would think to myself, "well X wouldn't be happening to you if you'd just gotten in a car and driven like a normal person!" Then I would sigh and keep reading because I found the author's descriptions of the increasingly alien landscape interesting. I will probably read the next installment because of the interesting premise and to see if she will ditch the bike.
1158443562	** spoiler alert ** Great idea, promising premise but failed delivery. Unlikely situations (how does an Iowa farm girl not know how to drive? For that matter, how does anyone that has ever been in a car, watched TV, or been alive in the US for any length of time decide its a better idea in an apocalyptic situation to bicycle across country instead of figuring out how to drive??) The main character has awful survival skills, narrative passages far too detailed and cause the story to drag along. And just as a side, listening to the Audible version, 1) I NEVER want to hear a narrator attempt a baby's wail ever again and 2) the narrator keeps using the term 'bergan' when the text reads 'backpack.' I assume this is the difference in possibly the original text, as I have heard the author is British, and the Kindle version--but still a minor annoyance.
599650611	Here's the problem: You have a good, though slightly derivative concept. You set it up rather well, and then you screw it all up by making the protagonist one of the dumbest, most useless characters since Yar Yar Binks. This book is basically about the main character trying to get out of her apartment, while stumbling about, falling on her ass, and making decisions taken straight out of the movie Dumb & Dumber. I spent 300 pages hoping she would just die, so it would be over. It's packed with feeble and repetitive phrases like "a sense of unease fell over her" every other sentence, and the narrative quality of teenage fan fiction. This is what happens when flabby nerds try to write books about survival.
3198751290	Excellent premise. Terrible protagonist. You want a heroine who cares about other people, yet she doesn't. (view spoiler)[ See her "grief" after boyfriend dies. (hide spoiler)]You want a do-er. Someone who can make a plan and get things done. This Emily girl was so clueless that I feel she should have died and someone else given a chance.I read a few reviews and see that she's not going to bother to learn how to drive. The fact that she can't drive and has never driven is absurd. But not even attempting to learn for this 100s of miles of trek is just beyond stupid. I can't.I was really excited about this book when I figured out the premise, but can't stand Emily. So no thank you.
1029865551	Well usually I hear the words 'self published' and steer well clear. But I'm glad I read this, because it was a surprisingly good piece of light post-apocalyptic fun.I've heard people making unfair comparisons to The Road, how The Road was good but this was bad. But... you know, I loved The Road, it was unquestionably a piece of high art, but heavens is was desperately depressing.And I quite liked about this book, it was post-apocalypse as we might imagine in our heads where it's actually kind of fun, with a heroine who wasn't just a desperate mess of PTSD.Pure YA popcorn of course. But something light and popcorn-ey is fun sometimes.
1098082532	At first I wasn't sure if I was going to like this book. The writing wasn't the best (neither is mine, to be honest), and the story just seemed to struggle to get moving. But after a few chapters the story started to roll and the writing seemed to get better. I do love a good end of the world story, and this has a good twist. Heck, I even teared up near the end of the book , due to a heart warming event. So, if you enjoy a good end of the world story I would recommend this. I am about to start book two of the trilogy and i'm excited to see where the author takes the story.
307200601	Paul Jones does it again! Extinction Point is an original take on the end-of-the-world trope. Red rains bring disease, panic, and eventually death to all but a few. A lone survivor fights isolation, despair, monstrous nightmare creatures, and the daunting distance between herself and potential survivors. The story itself shifts dramatically between scenes of quiet reflective solitude and brutal violence. A human story about inhuman circumstances. Can't wait for the next one!
1008782928	I've read a lot of post apocalyptic fiction. This is derivative of all of it.Nothing terribly original. Survivor of alien plague scavenges supplies and has to leave the city. It's terribly by the book and the Emily character isn't interesting enough to get me past the boring plot.I'm being harsh, but the end led nowhere was a cliffhanger. If this book can't stand on its own, why would I pick up the next?
288314295	Excellent Book! Loved the premise, the detailed level of descriptions really make you feel like you are there. Read it over the last couple days while it was storming outside and that really added to the mood. Have read both his books now (Towards Yesterday and Extinction Point) and have to say that while I liked both his one is by far my favorite. Can't wait for the next one! A+ all around and thank you for writing it!
4194653228	Poor writing. Complete lack of understanding of the field of journalism. Complete lack of understanding about how people respond to disaster. Annoying and weirdly written main character. Didn't finish - life is too short to read crappy books. It's too bad, too, cause the premise is interesting but terribly delivered.
298348895	I would have rated the book higher, but it is the type of book I just don't like. Overall very well written, good pacing, high level of interest in the character(s), and decent ideas. If you are into this type of book I would recommend it to you. If not, I'm not sure it will convert you to the genre.
1595242931	I like the idea of the book but wasn't thrilled with the delivery. I kept telling myself it was realistic. If the most incompetent New Yorker survived an extinction level event, this is probably how they would behave.The main character rambled way took much. I said out loud several times, "Just get on with it!"I don't plan on finishing the series.
661536216	A very quick and entertaining read.However, I HATE the current trend of making every ding-dang book part of a series! While good, there is no reason why the book should have stopped where it did. PUBLISHERS: Stop trying to make us think every new author is J.K. Rowling. They aren't.
608186369	This was a very difficult read. The book is written in far too much detail, the protagonist comes across as a blithering idiot, and the plotline is essentially creep-out horror, with no character development.
321019892	Did not enjoy I thought the storyline poor and boring...also there were 3 mistakes on the kindle edition...why do indie authors not proof read their material before publishing...there is no excuse for this :((
307473517	I liked this book read it from cover to cover non stop. I look forward to Emily and thors adventures in the strange new world!
593743635	Disappointing. I was interested in the premise but gradually started hating the heroine more and more as the story progressed partly thanks to the authors second rate writing. Pulp. Be warned.
1706567667	** spoiler alert ** Emily is an unlikable character with a very hard to believe back story. She was the ONLY person in New York City to not touch the red rain? I gave up.
2994117731	Do not buyStupid book. You are selling random senseless crap.I will not bother to state the problems with this book.Bye
