1647128687	The reason I am giving this book a 2 stars is because I expected so much more from both this book & this series overall and I am not very satisfied with the development or the ending. Schwab had so much potential going into this series, but ultimately I find myself very let down.I honestly don't know how to review this book without spoilers and so from this point on there will be unmarked spoilers for the entire series. ***SPOILER ALERT TURN BACK NOW***I feel as though this final installment was very disjointed. We've got:✔Perspectives tossed in here and there that ultimately amount to nothing.✔Unnecessary emphasis on characters who haven't mattered at all in the first and second books.✔A plot that takes almost 400 pages to really get going.✔Questions raised without answers given.✔A villain who feels neither scary, nor provides a real reason for his being a villain.So the story begins right where A Gathering of Shadows leaves off. Lila runs off to save Kell and immediately kills Ojka. What was the purpose of creating this neat character, giving us a glimpse of her background, just to kill her off immediately? It felt rather pointless??Then we spend the next almost 400 pages listening to Kell brood, Alucard jab at Kell while he broods, Rhy float around from room to room (after he avoids death again), and being incessantly reminded that Lila is a cool chick. If you guys don't already know, Kell and I don't get along. I don't sympathize with his plight, and I find him unnecessarily mopey in most of his scenes (especially in the second book). I don't mind Alucard, but I find his character to be a bit static. Even by the end of this book, he doesn't grow into anything new and he doesn't really participate in the action scenes in a meaningful way. His sole existence in this story is to create drama for Kell, Rhy, and Lila. Rhy, though not one of my favorite characters, undeniably experiences the most growth of the four over the course of the book. He evolves his perspective on being given a second chance at life, and ultimately comes to understand what it means to be king. SO bravo I guess on that front?Lila... Ugh. I want to like Lila so much but she's basically the same Lila we met on the streets in Grey London all those pages back. Lila's character on her own doesn't bother me as much as the way the Schwab handles telling us about her. I got weary of reading phrases like "thief-soft footsteps" and "she was a mystery" used to describe her. Like... I get it. She's interesting & capable. You don't need to keep reminding me.Outside of the main cast, we get chapters devoted to random one-time characters that don't really add up to anything, and we get chapters about King Maxim & Queen Emira & Tieren that... don't really add up to anything. Throwing in perspectives like Nasi, a little girl from White London who admired Ojka, did absolutely nothing for the plot or the world building. This character appears two times, around page 140 and around page 520, but her existence bears no consequence on the story.Using this character to explain more about Ojka's background could have worked, but since ultimately Ojka didn't end up mattering either it amounted to nothing more than a waste of time.Adding perspectives like Ned Tuttle & King George IV was so incredibly boring, since once again nothing of consequence happens in Grey London while this plot unfolds.Writing about Maxim and Emira was too little, too late for me. For the first two books, we've known these two to be side characters. This sudden shift to semi-main character status was jolting.We only scratched the surfaces of the King's and Queen's lives, and there simply wasn't enough there for me to connect to. I felt completely unattached to them, so their eventual deaths were reduced to plot devices for Rhy's development instead of being meaningful on their own.After a huge stretch of monotony, the plot finally gets itself going when the crew arrives at the floating black market. Here is where I started to become interested in where the story would go. The Inheritor was an interesting solution even if its existence felt very tailored for defeating Osaron. For the last 200 pages I was engaged, but pretty disappointed that the resolution of the plot played out exactly the way it was supposed to. Hell, it played out better than it was supposed to really, seeing as Holland survived to see the plan through to completion.No twists. No surprises. Our four main characters all survive. The end.Now I'm left wondering:What about Kell's past? Sure he decided he was better off not knowing about his true parents, but what about me as the reader? Resolving this question with Kell deciding he doesn't need the information was lazy on part of the author.What about Lila? Where did she come from? How did an Antari originate in Grey London? How did she lose her eye, and why? No, we are too busy being reassured that Lila is sly and mischievous and special to worry about her past, I suppose.How did the original tokens get into the different Londons? Can we know a little more history so that these worlds don't all feel like cardboard? What exactly caused Osaron to manifest into Vitari? Shouldn't we be looking for a solution to this problem since this is the second time it's happened? Maybe a way to eliminate the threat that Black London poses by just existing as a magical black hole that spits out perilous villains every so often?And that brings me to Osaron himself. He just doesn't scare me. When I read A Darker Shade of Magic, for the first 100 or so pages I was totally and completely enticed by the threat that Osaron presented. His unwanted presence felt menacing and dangerous in Red London and I was intrigued. But by A Conjuring of Light, he's still... just possessing people? Sure, they're chanting some creepy shit. Sure, he's killed a couple unimportant side characters. But... Is that all you got?Oh, and he creates an obsidian replica of the palace for... posturing? Intimidation? Once all the citizens of Red London are asleep, he's back to being a temperamental, smoke bitch until he's defeated at the end, which wraps up nicely and neatly and quickly in the last 50 or so pages of the book.I'm not impressed by Osaron.All three of these books suffer severely from pacing issues, on both a microcosmic and macrocosmic scale. Each book begins with a slow to medium pace, then concludes in a rapid whirlwind of events which is jarring to say the least. The series takes place over the course of what, a couple months? Maybe 4? Sometimes this can work, but in this case I don't feel it did. I wish Lila had been gone for two years instead of two months. It would've made much more sense for her to come back after two years of studying with Alucard to feel confident enough to enter the Essen Tasch.It would've given all of these characters time to grow into people I cared about.Now, perhaps you noticed I have been neglecting to mention Holland. That's because Holland was undoubtedly the star of the show. Holland's moments were such a treat for me. I was immediately entranced by him, and I drank in every one of his stories that Schwab graced us with.We get his backstory. We understand his motivations. We glimpse the events that have shaped him, hardened him, softened him. Holland's development causes the others' to pale by comparison.He possessed a depth I could sink my claws into. His death in the Silver Woods was beautifully tragic, and wonderfully appropriate. I just wanted to wrap him in my arms and die with him. If this series had been about Holland, I would likely be giving it 5 stars right now. Aside from Holland, Schwab's writing once again is absolutely stunning. This is an author who always impresses me with her writing style. She is whimsical in her descriptions, unique in how she conveys emotion to her readers. I am truly a fan of reading her words.But this series just did not deliver for me. I craved more intensity. I needed more unpredictability. I wanted meaningful characters that danced their way into my heart & a rich world that beckoned me to keep turning the pages. What I found here was a superb concept with a less-than-superb execution.
2395258585	Rhy: I messed with magic. Nearly killed everyone. Actually, it's still killing everyone.Lila:Alucard: Respect your limitations.Lila:Kell: I've literally used magic my entire life and you've been at it for what, two months? This will literally kill you. Lila: I'm calling mom. Schwab: By the power of author, I grant thee the power to do anything sans consequences. The Actual Review : “Life isn't made of choices, it's made of trades. Some are good, some are bad, but they all have a cost.” The Four Londons have existed (somewhat) in harmony for the past few years - but all that is about to change.The four realms (Black London, White London, Red London and Grey London) are like alternate realities, each with their own spin on magic. They can be accessed by Antari, humans with special magic, who create doors to access the other realms. Years ago in Black London, a piece of black magic became sentient and soon infected their entire world. White and Red London sealed their doors and thought they were safe.They did not know that the creature behind Black London's downfall was still alive and awaiting its chance.When Holland, an Antari from White London was sacrificed, was thrown into what was left of Black London, he was unwittingly sacrificed to the sentient magic. He became subject to the whims of an insane and insatiable magic. For the first time, in years, black magic will walk between the Londons. “Death comes for us all," said Holland evenly. "I would simply have mine mean something.” Meanwhile Kell and Lila must find a way to save their London, and all the Londons, before it is too late. “She was a thief, a runaway, a pirate, a magician.She was fierce, and powerful, and terrifying.She was still a mystery.And he loved her.” Talk about a whirlwind!Ultimately - this was a good third novel, though the more I think on it...the less I seem to like it. I'm going to cover - what I liked, Tragic Hero Holland and Lila-gate 2019. What I liked - aka, I was entertained but not loving it... It had plenty of action, adventure and mayhem. I legitimately did not know what direction this will take nor who would die throughout this novel. That kept it fresh and exciting for me. But it did seem to play fast and loose some of the book's original magic rules... which was somewhat annoying. Putting that aside, I did really enjoy the plot.The way the black London magic crept across the world - crazy-cool! Plus, I liked how the "big bad" was not a traditional villain. He had no reasoning, no logic, no overarching goal. He wanted to do some bad things...and he did them.And the characters! Rhys! Oh, I was so happy for him and his beau - such a perfect couple. It was wonderful to have such a strong couple in the book.I did enjoy how Lila and Kell really found their stride in this novel - the way they played off each other warmed my heart. But... they seemed like really good friends in their banter rather than lovers. I mean Kell does say he loves her a million times... but we do not see the love develop. However, there were a few things that took me out of the novel: Tragic Hero Holland - aka, you've had a sh*tty life? Let me sh*t on it some more By no exaggeration, the treatment of Holland was so awful that it bordered on comedy.The guy has been to hell and back all for what? Everyone to sh*t on him, apparently. Kell even knew that Holland had no control over himself while soul-bound to the evil twins, and yet Kell let everyone make Holland's life miserable. Kell pushed a dying Holland into Black London to die... then gets all prissy when the half-dead guy makes a deal to save his entire country. Everyone's hatred seemed nonsensical. There's justified prejudice and there's over-the-top. It could be my tinfoil hat, but it felt like the author was throwing the book at Holland so she could check every box from the Misunderstood Tragic Hero (TM) trope. Lila-gate 2019 - aka mom plays favorites This book was Lila's personal sandbox. She could pretty much do anything she wanted because "reasons"... Logically, Lila's powers should've been the weakest (she's a Grey Londoner, she hasn't practiced very long, etc...) but she continuously showed everyone up. It felt a little like the author loved Lila so much that she gave her a free pass to do whatever. It got so freaking annoying that I literally just couldn't stand her in this book. What is the point of creating rules for your world if one character just gets to do whatever they want, whenever they want?? Overall This one was enjoyable. It dragged at times but picked up at the 400 pg mark. The characters were unique and (mostly) believable. I won't be returning for a reread but I'll definitely be checking out Schwab's other series.Audiobook CommentsWell-read, though Lila's voice did grate on my nerves sometimes.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
7347804594	This is actually a VE Schwab fan account
2190540945	hot damn.
1845324574	As of now, this is the number one most overrated and worst trilogy that I've ever read so far. “Anoshe brought solace. And hope. And the strength to let go.” No need for Anoshe, I don’t need any additional strength to let go of this series. Let it be known here that I won’t be reading any more books written by VE Schwab. This is where I must part way with her works. Trust me it’s better for me to do this. For her fans, I’m happy that you love her series but you don’t want to see me rant and rated her books with bad reviews right? I have read all her (Not under Victoria Schwab) book, including the novella ‘Warm Up’ and her books just degrade in quality with each new release for me.'Vicious' being the first and the best one I read from her, it was a one hit wonder and believe me I would’ve continue with the series but the problem is, after reading this trilogy I change my mind. Vicious should’ve ended up as a standalone, it ended perfectly and I hate when authors decided to continue a standalone into a trilogy. Just like ADSOM (A Darker Shade of Mediocre), the first book started and ended well as a standalone and it should’ve stayed that way.To sum up, my experience reading this straight after AGOS (A Gathering of Shit), it’s like wiping my ass with sandpaper instead of a tissue. In other word, a bloody asshole experience.The plot continued straight after the previous book and I seriously thought this book would’ve been better cause it took you into the heat of the action and story right from the beginning but no, as soon as it landed on the 200 pages mark, it became so much worse. To explain this without spoiling anything, this series contained so many plot holes that a Diglett could make a living out of this series.For example, it’s been stated from the first book that Kell lost his memory before he’s adopted into the Maresh family, just when I thought the book was going to tell his story, nope, the book said “fuck you, you’re not getting one” and instead, letting me know that Lila is a damned one of a kind. Apparently mentioning her Mary Sue existence repeatedly is more important than the characters background.I’ll be honest, this book is less infuriating to read compared to AGOS because there’s less emphasis on Lila compared to before but my god this series is the first series that ever made me pray to a fictional character. I kept on praying to Kira Yagami, “Kira, please write Lila’s name. Cause of death: impaled by her own knifes through her mouth.” to end her life every moment she spoke. “Then why are you smiling?” “Because,” she said, “bad ideas are my favorite kind.” OH REALLY!? How about this? Take out your favorite knifes, cut your tongue out or drown yourself in the Arnesian sea. How bowdah for a bad idea? Seems like something you'd enjoy, hmm? Hmm? HMMM!?Apparently being reminded that she’s a badass (pretty sure she literally has a bad ass now) is more crucial to the explanation behind her ultimate Mary Sue developments, there is no clear explanation behind all her powers, her background, NONE! But get this, instead of Kell’s and Lila’s background, VE Schwab decided to let us know about so many side characters that barely made an appearance in the previous books. Why in the world would I care about these side characters that barely exist from before when I couldn’t even care about the main characters already? Use these pages to flesh out the background of the main characters dammit, not providing POV for so many characters that are worthless to the main story.Like the previous book, most of the story took place only in Red London. Seriously, the amount of wasted potential on the world-building of this series too damn huge. In fact, only the first book of the trilogy applied the 4 London concepts appropriately. The main antagonist is also one of the worst antagonists I ever read in a fantasy or any book. Not only he’s like a ghost who’s less scary than Casper, Michelin would’ve made a scarier antagonist compared to this fart, no seriously, look at this beast.The final confrontation is very underwhelming, to say the least. It took more than 500 pages to reach and it ended in less than 40 pages. Instead of a great climax scene, we receive a tedious 50 pages epilogue with cheesy romance.Honestly, this book should’ve received a one star from me but again, I have huge praises towards Holland. This is literally the only redeeming factor of the book for me, unlike all other character, this book actually sheds light on Holland’s background beautifully. Right from his childhood up to why he’s the way he is now. In my opinion, Holland should’ve been the main character of the trilogy. IF every other character received the same treatment as him, this book would’ve been a much better experience. Instead all we get is brooding Kell, Mary Sue who have a fetish with knives and other worthless POV's less important than potatoes.One last thing to mention, Rhy’s development is not bad here, in the first book he seemed like this creature that will literally fuck everything that moves, despite his stupidity in some part of the book, he actually has more personality and development compared to the Kell and Lila.I could go on for so much longer on why this book didn’t work for me but I’ll just end it here. This series drained the energy out of me and now I’m literally exhausted. I seriously thought VE Schwab probably signed a contract with the devil or something during my time of reading this book to make this book reached its fame and praises with this quality. Don’t believe me? Look at the total number of pages of the UK edition, it’s 666.Shade of Magic is easily the worst trilogy I ever read in my entire life so far. It will be hard for me to ever find another series as bad as this. I know I’m on the unpopular opinion side on this trilogy here but I honestly won’t recommend this trilogy for anyone who’s an avid adult fantasy fans. I feel robbed buying the physical books and thinking this will be an adult-oriented trilogy which it definitely isn’t. This is an unpopular and honest opinion of mine, I’m glad that a lot of you love this series but sadly, it’s just not for me. Series review: A Darker Shade of Magic: 3/5 Stars A Gathering of Shadows: 1/5 Stars A Conjuring of Light: 2/5 Stars Shades of Magic: 6/15 Stars You can find the rest of my Adult Epic/High fantasy and Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
1913029123	NO FAULTS.AMAZING.I LOVED IT.IM CRYING.anoshe ANNNNOOOOOOOOSHHEEEEEEEEEEEEEEi hope she does a spin off!
2312473244	No one is more stunned by this rating than me. For a series in which I was neutral on the first book and hated the second, this is one of my favorite finales. ..... I am confusion. Pleasant confusion... but confusion...
1648452254	Reread January 2020: sometimes you reread a story, and you realize you’ve forgotten how absolutely fucking incredible it is. This is one of those times. If A Gathering of Shadows deserved 100+ stars, A Conjuring of Light deserves 10x that many. I have no words. This series is honestly my favorite out of everything I've ever read and I just want to reread the first one now that it's all over! My heart is so happy. Anoshe ADSOM.
1382236817	“A myth without a voice is like a dandelion without a breath of wind.No way to spread the seeds.”Victoria Schwab is my favourite. I've read every one of her books, from The Archived to The Near Witch, This Savage Song and Vicious. Alright, not the middle grade/childrens books, but I feel like I'm a little too old for that.I love her. She is one amazing, badass author. She has such a beautiful mind, she writes the most fantastic, dark and thrilling stories. She is truly unique and I'm so excited what the future holds for her (and for her readers).It may not come as a surprise when I tell you that the Shades of Magic series is one of my favourites as well. The concept alone is stunning. ADSOM swept me off my feet. In AGOS I lost my heart to Rhy and Alucard (I lost it to Rhy in ADSOM already, but a heart can be lost more than once when it's Rhy).I had the highest of hopes for this finale. Maybe slightly too high. I think I scared myself a little. And while I loved the book it didn't take me by storm. I think it's one of those "It isn't you, it's me!" cases because I can't find anything wrong with this book. I'm just not in love with it the way I'm in love with book 1 and 2.Writing a conclusion to a series is hard. It happens so (so so so) often that I'm 100% thrilled by a series and then 100% disappointed with the last book. Only a few authors manage to make the finale as great or even better than the prequels. Two rare examples are J.K. Rowling and Nora Sakavic. Even Leigh Bardugo and Maggie Stiefvater can't always convince me and they are two incredible writers.So what happened here? Why was I hesitating to pick this book up, when I was desperately pining for it for a whole year? What was I scared of? Yup, you guessed it: Disappointment.In the end, the pacing was great, but some plot twists felt superfluous, unnecessary. Red London is in a state of panic and destruction. Osaron is the most powerful evil black magician ever. There is no time for anything but battle preparation. And the three most powerful magicians, the three people who are truly capable of destroying Osaron leave the country for several days? I'm not sure that's very realistic. There were several situations like this, some where I thought that they could have been left out of the book entirely and nothing would have changed except for the page count. In the end, a smaller page count and a more crafted and compromised plot would have improved the book and left me more satisfied.This fantasy world also lost some of its magic. Book 1 was so special and creative, book 2 introduced us to new cultures and characters, but book 3 didn't have this original and simply magical feeling to it anymore. Something went missing along the way. Even my favourite ship (Rhylucard) was less exciting than before.Luckily Victoria's writing is on point. Here dialogues are simply really good and so is the world she created. I'm also glad that Lila finally got a grip and got off this ego trip that she was on in AGOS. She annoyed me to hell and back.I couldn't give this book 5 stars even if I wanted to and 3 stars would have been the understatement of the year, but 4 stars feel just right.Victoria Schwab deserves a break. She is writing books like a madwoman and her books are intense and nervewracking and probably a hard piece of work for the author. And while I can't wait for Vengeful and Our Dark Duet I just want to say thank you so much for the wonderful stories you share with us. You are truly awesome.Find more of my books on Instagram
2460226925	why on earth am i so emotional right now!?!?! its been awhile since a conclusion to a series has hit me so hard. goodness, my heart is full. i loved that this picked up immediately where ‘a gathering of shadows’ left off. it was such a quick dive straight into the conclusion and this final book really has the best qualities of the previous two - more marvellous world building is at play as the characters travel beyond the city of london, and touching backstories/flashbacks are present to give even more depth and development to those characters with whom i have bonded. but where this book found its own voice was in its plot. this was filled with so much more action and adventure that wasnt quite as prevalent previously. so much was at stake that i couldnt put this down - i became so invested in the captivating writing, the constant peril and intrigue, and the emotions i felt for the characters and their redemption. just everything about this pulled me in and wouldnt let go. and even though this book hit every mark all the way through, it was really the ending that shined for me. this was wrapped up so nicely and provided the closure i needed after pouring my heart and soul into this story across three books. i felt very at peace with the way the story was resolved, which is all i could have asked for. and so to this series i tenderly and lovingly say, anoshe - until another day.↠ 4.5 stars
2122460535	#1 A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★ #2 A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★#3 A Conjuring of Light ★★★★★ I’ve been putting off writing this review for a month, which is about the same length of time I put off finishing the book itself, because I simply have not been prepared to say goodbye to this trilogy. Reading these three books has been one of the most emotional, anxiety-inducing, and genuinely magical experiences of my entire life. I have so much to say, with no idea how to express any of it. “Love and loss,” he said, “are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be.” I can safely say that I have never loved every character in a series the way I do with this one. I mourned every loss, laughed and cried tears of joy over each close call, every triumph, every kiss and reunion. The thing about this trilogy is that there are certain evils which must be faced and conquered, but what really stays with you is the build-up of these characters and their relationships with one another. I can’t even choose a favorite, because I love them all so much, in such different ways. “Scars are not shameful, not unless you let them be. If you do not wear them, they will wear you.” In typical Schwab fashion, though, the action scenes are downright glorious. I love that, no matter how many moving pieces are in a battle, I never struggle to keep up with exactly what is happening, because her writing is so immersive that it transports you right into the center of the fight. You never know quite what twist or slight of hand to expect next. “What are we drinking to?”“The living,” said Rhy.“The dead,” said Alucard and Lila at the same time.“We’re being thorough,” added Rhy. Of course, it’s not all war and heartache; there are always these gorgeous moments woven in of bonding, of bickering and playful banter. I don’t think I’ve ever laughed so much in so many moments of sheer and utter anxiety, but that’s this series in a nutshell—especially the second and third installments. I actually joked recently that I’m so happy there is going to be a spin-off series, but at the same time, I need ample room to recover before putting my heart through the misery of another book with these characters scaring me half to death and breaking my heart every other chapter. “Death comes for us all. I would simply have mine mean something.” I don’t know what else to say at this point. I wanted this review to be eloquent and thorough, but when I think back on this story, I am immediately pulled into such reminiscence for the feelings it drew out of me that I have a hard time viewing it subjectively and squaring it off into little, easy to describe compartments. “Anoshe was a word for strangers in the street, and lovers between meetings, for parents and children, friends and family. It softened the blow of leaving. Eased the strain of parting. A careful nod to the certainty of today, the mystery of tomorrow. When a friend left, with little chance of seeing home, they said anoshe. When a loved one was dying, they said anoshe. When corpses were burned, bodies given back to the earth and souls to the stream, those left grieving said anoshe.Anoshe brought solace. And hope. And the strength to let go.” A month after completing it, I feel comfortable in now saying that this is the single greatest series I have ever read in my life, and Victoria Schwab has solidified a permanent place in my heart. I will buy anything and everything she writes in the future, and I will doubtlessly reread this trilogy over and over again. The writing is so flawless, and frankly, you could just tattoo this whole damn trilogy onto my body if there was enough room, and I’d be just fine with that, thank you.You can find this review and more on my blog, or you can follow me on twitter, bookstagram, or facebook!---Buddy read with Terry and Julie! ♥♥♥
1563416486	“Myths do not happen all at once.”You would not be wrong in thinking of me as a girl of few certainties. “...They do not spring forth whole into the world.” The usual ones: the love of my family, my love for them, and one big dream -we all have one of those, even when we don't know we do- that keeps me going.“...They form slowly, rolled between the hands of time until their edges smooth...”There are also one or two things peculiar to me alone, of course. Unfortunately, they have a tendency to be dull things. But one of these, the brightest one, I think, is that I love stories. Always have, always will.“...until the saying of the story gives enough weight to the words—to the memories—to keep them rolling on their own.”And once, I used to think I knew how stories work. I thought I was able to pick them up, look them over, and tell who and what and where and when. (Though not the why; the why is always another story.) “...But all stories start somewhere...”I thought indeed that I could say, here it starts, and, there it ends. But as I grew, and read, I started to see that things are not quite this simple. It would take a certain story to finally make realize the truth. The truth being...“...and that night, as Rhy Maresh walked through the streets of London...”The truth being, stories don't like to have their boundaries set. Never have. “...a new myth was taking shape.”And never will.•One day I'll publish an essay on what makes for a good storytelling, and all I will write in it will be: Victoria Schwab nailed it all down. There is no other way to put it: in A Conjuring of Light, and in the Shades of Magic series more generally, she was perfect. Elegant, graceful, confident, composed while vibrant and stirring while unruffled, polished, dynamic, exquisite; in two words, absolutely regal. Schwab's prose is something you can't equal, because it's one of a kind, something you can't forget, because it won't let you go, and something you can't even believe, because it is, very simply, too beautiful and mesmerizing to be true.•Each one of these characters is so fleshed-out I'm honestly astonished that even their names can stay put and flat on the page. In the previous instalment, I'd had some issues with Lila, who in my eyes had gone through the whole book being more boastful and hot-headed than I -or anyone- could take, instead of showing the determination and strength that had captivated me in A Darker Shade of Magic. But the Lila we meet in this conclusion is definitely more mature, while losing none of her distinctive fierceness and boldness and tenacity. “There were a hundred shades between a truth and lie, and she knew them all.” •Kell, Rhy and Alucard are just as amazing as we all knew they would be, plus, prepare yourselves to be delighted -and wrecked, and shattered, and wrecked some more- by some secrets concerning Alucard's (and to a degree Rhy's) past and some crucial plot-twists determining our favourite crown prince's future. The events test them both, and they are made all the stronger by their obstacles, the ones they share as well as the ones they have to overcome alone. Rhy's dedication and resolve, in particular, are splendidly inspirational.•It seems my stupid, stupid mind realized this only with this book, but Holland is such an incredible and extraordinary character. I cannot explain how much my heart bled and sang for him. I feel the need to reread the whole series just to appreciate him as he deserves and as I should have done from the beginning. “Caring was a thing with claws. It sank them in, and didn’t let go. Caring hurt more than a knife to the leg, more than a few broken ribs, more than anything that bled or broke and healed again. Caring didn’t break you clean. It was a bone that didn’t set, a cut that wouldn’t close.” •Osaron is one of the best villain I've had the (dis)pleasure to meet in a long while, and I was completely caught off guard and captivated by how compelling he proved to be. Besides, I utterly adore the concept that he's pure magic. “It is an arrogant man that thinks himself a god. And an arrogant god, thought Tieren, looking to the window, that thinks himself a man.” •The plots of A Darker Shade of Magic and A Gathering of Shadows were already exceptional, but A Conjuring of Light basically towers over them. Fast-paced and heart-stopping, yet it never comes off as overly packed or in any way excessive -since we've already established that Schwab's trademarks are elegance and balance, I shouldn't even need to specify it.•There is one single insignificant tiny thing that felt slightly random, or maybe out of place, and that's the favour that Lila traded with (view spoiler)[Maris (hide spoiler)]. I expected it to be brought up again before the end, and it wasn't, and it felt a bit like a loose end. I'm really trying not to hope that Schwab purposely made it so, so as to have a sort of foothold for a possible continuation/spin-off/something, I promise I'm trying, but it just seems so natural and obvious once you notice. I just don't want my heart broken (again). Speaking of loose ends, I also thought Nasi's POV had been introduced because she would have a role later in the story, but that was apparently a red herring or purely a necessity in order to develop Ojka's character.•I think that plot-wise this works perfectly, and I feel that this was exactly how things were supposed to go, but I was and still am dreadfully curious about (view spoiler)[Kell's past (hide spoiler)]. I guess that's just something I'll have to live with. (See how hard I'm trying not to hope?)➽ I could try to put into words what I feel for this series, I could put my thinking cap on and make countless attempts, and still I would get nowhere. There simply are no words. I can only redirect you to my review of A Darker Shade of Magic and my review of A Gathering of Shadows, and hope they'll make my point a little clearer. Because believe me, you want to pick this series up. Of course, afterwards you'll want to kill me for introducing you to the most addictive obsession (?) of your life. But I'm more than confident that you'll also want to thank me. And until then, anoshe.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2586756694	Just...wow ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ "Because caring was a thing with claws. It sank them in, and didn't let go. Caring hurt more than a knife to the leg, more than a few broken ribs, more than anything that bled or broke, and healed again. Caring didn't break you clean. It was a bone that didn't set, a cut that wouldn't close." What an epic trilogy this has been! That quote pretty much sums up my love for all of these characters. Dark magic has come to red London, leaving a trail of death and devastation in its wake. Kell, Lila, Alucard, Holland and a small crew take to the high seas to find something, ANYTHING that can defeat Osaron.Meanwhile Rhy (my darling love) is at the palace, trying to keep the people calm in the midst of panic and fear.Despite me constantly stopping and starting this book, every time I picked it back up I wondered why I put it down in the first place! So much action and drama. We learn more of Holland's background (and I learned to love him as well). "Dawn to dusk. A fresh start. A good end." Plenty of stuff happens that I won't mention because spoilers. But this was such a wonderful round up of the trilogy, and I even got a bit emotional at the end! Love love love, and I will definitely be coming back for a reread! "Death comes for us all...I would simply have mine mean something."
1927314601	Ehhhhhh. I finished this one a while back, but I just couldn't decide how I felt about it.I mean, it was ok. Nothing was horribly wrong, and I certainly didn't feel pissed off when I closed the book. It just left me with this vaguely meh feeling.Like...why did I read all of this?This was, at 624 pages, a HUGE book. <--for me!I know some of you read massive tomes every night before bed, but I usually snack on comic books or fluffy romance novels, so when these bigguns don't deliver I feel a tad disappointed.And I'm not actually saying it didn't deliver, because look at all the bjillion 5 star reviews! Apparently, I'm one of the few people on the planet that had a lukewarm reaction to A Conjuring of Light, so please don't take this review as a slam on the book. It's a solid finish to the trilogy, there are no dangling threads left out there, and I was (for the most part) satisfied by the way it wrapped up.Schwab is a fantastic storyteller, and since she's managed to write my oldest son's favorite story ever --> Vicious, I'm afraid if I say anything less than glowing I'll have to sleep with one eye open. You never know with kids these days...*ducks*Still, I did have a few issues. I'll tag the ones that are possible spoilers...(view spoiler)[The two spoilery things I wasn't crazy about were Holland's ending, and Kells magic pains.First, Holland. I guess not everyone gets a happy ending, but man! That dude never got to have a good day in his LIFE! Everyone he ever knew was HORRIBLE to him, then he was tortured for years by those psycho twins, and after sacrificing his life once already...everyone in Red London still hates his guts. It was bad enough that the poor guy ended up slinking off to his own dimension to die (and maybe rejuvenate his London? Vague, much?), but why in the hell didn't Kell explain to everyone that Holland had been unable to control his actions while the Dane twins were alive. I mean, that would have gone a long way toward Lila forgiving him for that dude's death. And, yes, he was responsible for the evil dude escaping Black London, but give me a fucking break! The guy was half dead, stranded in a different dimension (after Kell killed him, btw!), and he thought letting that thing possess him might save his people. Can we not cut the poor fella any slack?To me, it felt like he was just the whipping boy so that there could be a tragic hero...who wasn't Kell.Which brings us to Kell and his ouchie magic.Why? Why does it now hurt every time he does magic? I mean, I know why...I read it! But it just seemed tacked on so that no one could accuse Schwab of going easy on her main character. So, yeah, he lives. But it hurts when he does magic now. Whatever. (hide spoiler)]I guess the other thing I wasn't crazy about was Lila and Kell's relationship. It never felt genuine or even really romantic. I don't know why, but they just seemed like a very dull couple. And I think Schwab can write depth to her romantic attachments because Rhy and Alucard had depth.P.S. This has nothing to do with the story, but I could not for the life of me stop thinking: Alucard is Dracula spelled backward!My kids used to LOVE The Batman vs. Dracula movie and there was this one scene in it that kept running through my mind during this entire book...Dun, dun, duuun! *gasp!*Anyway. I guess the rest of it was fine. There was some great stand out moments that I really enjoyed, and I think anyone who has read the first 2 books should be satisfied with this last installment. Overall though, I can't say I this would be a series/trilogy that I'd want to reread.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1943053941	Updated 9/11/17:I will be crying for the next 75 years. This was perfection. It was such a good conclusion.▪️▪️▪️UMMMMM so I finished A Gathering of Shadows and placed an order for this book within 10 minutes. It only took so long because I had to find my credit card. GIMME.
1712614648	I was incredibly excited to read the last book in this series and wow was it action packed. Almost too much if that's possible. I definitely enjoyed it (and recommend it!) but it wasn't as good as the two other ones in my opinion. I overall liked how things were wrapped up at the end but I felt like Lila's character was a bit one-dimensional.More in my wrap up at the end of the month!
1922011027	1.) A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★2.) A Gathering of Shadows ★★★ “Love and loss,” he said, “are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be.” I have read one book in this series every year for the BooktubeSFF Awards. And every year I enjoy what I’m reading, I close the book pretty pleased, and then I sit down to write my review and start thinking about how these are such big books with so little happening. And I know they are character driven. One of my favorite books of all time is the most character driven thing out there, but for some reason I just don’t love this series like everyone else does. A Conjuring of Light is the third and final novel in this trilogy that surround four different parallel Londons:➽ Grey London - is like our real world's London, with no magic. Delilah Bard is from this London.➽ Red London - is the home of the main protagonist, Kell, where he and his royal family rule. There is an abundance of magic in this London, most coming from a red river which lights up the whole city.➽ White London - is a city in war with itself. It was ruled by evil twins, but now has a new king. Everyone in this London tries to fight for magic and power within this corrupt city.➽ Black London - and is still basically a mystery. It is essentially a lost city, since regular people cannot travel between worlds.And after the brutal cliffhanger ending that was A Gathering of Shadows, A Conjuring of Light picks right back up after the events! And without saying anything too spoilery, since this is the concluding novel and all, our main character, Kell Maresh, and his home, Red London, are in serious danger. But with the help of a ruthless thief/assassin, Lila Bard, a swoon-worthy pirate, Alucard Emery, the best prince to have ever lived, Rhy Maresh, and a very morally grey Antari, Holland Vosijk, they are trying to save everything they’ve ever known and loved. “Life isn't made of choices, it's made of trades. Some are good, some are bad, but they all have a cost.” And even the idea of four different color coded Londons, with a handful of magical people who can travel between them, is so damn genius that I don’t even have words for it. Also, V.E. Schwab is such a talented writer. The way she echoes phrases from different books, or even sentences from previous chapters, is so powerful and is able to evoke all the emotions from me. She truly can weave and craft paragraphs together so expertly and I’m constantly impressed with her writing. I just feel like not a lot happens in her books. Like, a few big, key, important things happen without question, and storylines get completed, but I just feel like it is such a longwinded journey to get there. And these books are so easily consumable that you don’t really realize until after you’ve closed the book. I mean, at least for me and my personal reading experiences. Seriously, go back and look at my other two reviews; I say the same thing. Also, the big bad villain just fell so very short for me. The magic started off so dang well, but the villain really ended up feeling lackluster to me.But my biggest complaint about the other two installments in this series is that they don’t read or feel adult to me. But you know what A Conjuring of Light reads and feels like? Adult, without question. Also, just a little caveat, if an author says their work is in a certain age bracket/genre, then it is. I am just saying A Darker Shade of Magic and A Gathering of Shadows don’t feel or read like adult fantasy to me, but I’m not saying they aren’t. But ACOL did give me those brutal moments that made me go “okay, this isn’t YA” quite a lot. Also, trigger and content warnings for abuse, torture, abduction, slavery, captivity, talk of suicide, violence, gore, heavy blood depiction, abandonment, and depiction of grief and PTSD. Oh and I guess sexual content, too, but nothing too graphic. (Also, hello, perverted Melanie here to report that that sex scene was 11/10 and was so smooth and sexy and I actually loved it!) “I have never known what to make of you. Not since the day we met. And it terrifies me. You terrify me. And the idea of you walking away again, vanishing from my life, that terrifies me most of all.” But my biggest love for this series is Rhy Maresh, who has completely and without question stole my heart. He is easily my favorite character in this series. My beautiful, pure, cinnamon roll, unbreakable boy. I stan one man from this series, and it’s him. And he deserves everything good in the universe. Breathtaking art meliescribbles “We don't choose what we are, but we choose what we do.” Overall, take this review with a large grain of salt. I am for sure in the minority with not loving these books as much as everyone else. And even though this isn’t my favorite series, I think Victoria is incredibly talented and I can’t wait to see what she does next. And I truly think that these books get better and better, with A Conjuring of Light being my favorite in the series, and the last couple chapters of this book had me smiling from ear to ear in pure happiness. And I ultimately do feel really fulfilled and happy with the ending. Plus, I’m very interested (especially after gushing with my friend Julie) with reading the graphic novel series set around a character from this world. Also, I have the highest of hopes for the spinoff that Victoria is working on. I just hope I fall completely head over heels in love, instead of only just enjoying. Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch
3602930454	i loved it but i had multiple issues with lack of some character arcs & plot
2709901808	I'm just going to get hooked by this book BRB__________________________________________4.45/5 ⭐ “Scars are not shameful, not unless you let them be (…). If you do not wear them, they will wear you.” Well, of course, this book has at the very beginning something the second one lacked almost in all of its length – action that makes me go up the wall.Okay, I don’t say that A Gathering of Shadows did not have action at all, because it did, but it wasn’t as packed and as accurate to the actual course of the story as it was in A Darker Shade of Magic and in this one.With that beginning, there was no doubt in my mind that A Conjuring of Light was going to be waaay messier than I initially thought (before actually picking it up). And you know what? I was right.Messy as hell. 10/10 for the mess, good job with that Ms Schwab!First things first, even though I really liked this (it gave me a three-course anxiety meal and all that) I still felt like I couldn’t give it 5 full stars because it was a bit too long for how they handled the whole situation at the end.It wasn’t bad at all, but it did leave me with a bit of a bitter taste just at the end (and as I type this I am literally wrinkling my nose remembering the feeling). I wanted either less amount of plot or a more complex solution to the problem. But oh well, we can’t have it all I guess. Now, I know that I started off by telling you things I did not like about this book and I generally don’t do that but I really had to give a little fair warning at the beginning, just in case someone’s getting bored with me and my silly little words, you know, waiting for me to get to the point.And if you thought the things I didn’t like about this are over, think again :DThere is more to come. But later.Now let’s talk about things I did like. Because – you guessed it by my rating – I did like thing in this too.For me, Schwab’s writing style is always something I look forward to reading. I always love the way she tells a story. I love the way she is building up her worlds. I love the way she is inserting a little bit of evil in all of her characters.You simply cannot trust any of V.E. Schwab’s characters.And that seems to be a rule. But that’s not bad, because the world in which they find themselves is always some kind of general chaos or evil. “Life is chaos. Time is order.” Even so, I did love the characters, because even though they are so not trustworthy, they still have something good in them and I dare say, some of them are quite lovely actually. Alucard, for example, is one character that I truly loved and I enjoyed reading about and his and Rhy’s interactions made me so giggly happy you haven’t a clue. Also, I started liking some characters I didn’t really think I would, at least not from the beginning. And that’s always something that gets me by surprise in a very warm way (which hey, it's a good thing!).However, I did hate the fact that I had to struggle with some of the characters’ stubbornness. And here I will definitely include Kell, Rhy and, the queen of stubbornness herself, Lila Bard.Why do they feel the need to rebel against a piece of advice? Why not find smart solutions to what is actually bothering them? Why simply go absolutely rogue and create three problems while trying to solve a tiny one?No clue, I swear. But I wanted to bang their heads into a wall at some point in the book. This book felt a bit like anarchy, to be completely honest. I mean, it did pump some serious amount of adrenaline in my veins at some point and that wasn’t really a bad thing. It was so well written and the characters – annoyingly stubborn as they were – actually made sense to the whole action. The story unravelled nicely and the only thing I wished from it was to not be, I don’t know, so rushed at the end. To make them last a bit longer.That ending really felt like everyone has struggled and suffered so much for so little. Hello?? The solution was RIGHT THERE IN YOUR FACES.That easy. Ugh.I did enjoy this book. And I do recommend the whole trilogy, it’s absolutely fantastic, wildly imaginative and different from other books of the same genre. A uniqueness signed V.E. Schwab. “They ran together with the river and the mist and the moonless sky until they were everywhere.”
1999876505	4.25 StarsOverview: “Anoshe was a word for strangers in the street, and lovers between meetings, for parents and children, friends and family. It softened the blow of leaving.” Okay, I know my rating is picky and oddly specific, but it’s true. I enjoyed this more than AGOS (making it my favorite of the series) but it's still just shy of 5 stars. In fact, that's what I rated it in a blind-emotional fury immediately after I finished. Because there was a lot I loved. ...But also some stuff I didn't. Another BR with Sana. (Even though she hated AGOS, smh.)Pros:I need to read another Schwab book like now. This series was my first experience with her writing and I love it. She utilizes crisp sentences and sensory details so I can completely visualize the scene. She expertly lets the scene rise and fall and is a master at setting tone.Listen and let me tell you about my two new children: Rhy Maresh and Alucard Emery. I JUST REALLY LOVE BOTH OF THEM OKAY. Rhy especially has a ton of character development. I laughed with him at the beginning and here my heart broke for him. He has to step up so much and really come into his own as a leader and I just love it. Alucard and Kell bickering like old women is my new aesthetic. I could have honestly read a whole book about this, I swear. (But I also loved getting to see more of Luc’s backstory and taking him more seriously)The ending works very well. No spoilers, but everyone ends up in believable places and there’s certainly ramifications. Speaking of which, the villain here is kind of awesome. Not quite the direction I was expecting for this series, but it works very well and I loved getting inside his head.There are certain scenes the whole series seemed to be building towards and they are tense. Very well done and some of these really blew my mind. Yes, hello it is I. Still loving Holland and just silently weeping in the background. Just such a dynamic character with such a strong presence on the page. Cons:At almost 700 pages, this is a little long. Places seemed overstuffed while others seemed off-topic, and there just some major pacing issues. The first 100 pages or so take off right after the explosive ending of AGOS, but then everything veers one direction and then another and sort of clambers together by the ending. I really liked a lot of these elements, but couldn’t help by feel they were a little random? This floating market idea was super cool and I loved the way it played out, but it literally came out of nowhere.There were several characters who were expanded upon here—the king, queen, visitors from neighboring cities and others. While I really enjoyed their perspectives and how they impacted the story, it felt a little out of place to just now learn about these characters. I wish a lot of this started in the second book. Listen: Lila is a fun character, but she has no development. She seems almost exactly the same here as she did at the beginning of ADSOM. She definitely is fun, and I love how capable she is. But at some point the narrative switched to continually telling me what a bad-ass she is. She felt ridiculously over-powered. Why did the second book include a whole plot about magic having consequences and Kell warning her about her recklessness if nothing comes of it???In Conclusion:Anoshe -----------------------------I'm here for Rhy and Luc. ❤️❤️(And maybe even Kell) (Everyone but Lila, probably)
2038449942	i'm emo.
2670222549	“Life isn’t made of choices, it’s made of trades. Some are good, some are bad, but they all have a cost.” * A Darker Shade Of Magic 🌟🌟🌟🌟 * A Gathering of Shadows 🌟🌟🌟 * A Conjuring of Light 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 This series has been on my TBR since before this book was even released and I kept procrastinating and the general rule in this situation is that I am always sleeping on a good book! I really enjoyed it that it deserved a 5 stars from me. This makes it the 4th book to get this rating out of 95 books I read this year and I will try to explain why.🌟 After my mild disappointment with the second book which I thought was slow and suffered from middle book syndrome, I lowered my expectations significantly before starting this one as it was the largest, and I could not imagine reading 666 pages of slow pacing as in book 2.🌟 What I love in Schwab’s writing is her small multiple chapters, this book almost had a 100 chapters (not kidding) and they were short which kept me attached to the story with the dreaded “just one more chapter”. This style became like Schwab’s specialty in writing as it could be found in most of her books.🌟 Now small chapters alone are not a recipe for a good book, but add Schwab’s good writing and that would it make a very good recipe! There is something she does where she writes a kind of parallelism that I really really love and I don’t think I can give an example without spoilers so I will leave it for you to discover it in the book. There was the right mix of banter, sarcasm and serious writing at the right doses. I found many quotes that I really liked and if I highlighted them my book would have ended up half highlighted! “What are we drinking to?” “The living,” said Rhy. “The dead,” said Alucard and Lila at the same time. “We’re being thorough,” added Rhy. 🌟 The characters in this one developed immensely and then Schwab killed all of them! No, I am kidding but this was brutal and many characters do not make it so do not get attached to any of them! But I almost liked all of the characters whether they were primary or secondary ones!!(Me, whenever I think about the characters in this book:)🌟 Now the plot in this one was definitely better than the second book and it makes up for it because it felt like it was a bridge for all that happens in this one and a lot does happen specially at the beginning! There were a few questions that were left unanswered and a few things that felt like they were coincidences but in reality were very important for the story!🌟 Summary: I loved this one, from the writing to the characters to the pacing and plot! It was an addicting book from start to end and although there were a few details that irked me, I am trying to ignore them for the majority of the book which was excellent and I will be continuing Schwab’s books in the future for sure!
1784882284	A truly beautiful ending to an incredible series. Schwab never disappoints and this book, as well as the first two, were phenomenal.
1921595925	Okay, I'm a mess inside. Nope. This series is not over. Never the less this book was such a perfect wrap to this series. It was beautiful and heartbreaking. Definitely deserves all the stars. "Anoshe - until another day."
3435113382	3.5?
2053009928	I spent so long today crying and thinking about this book that it completely slipped my mind to mark it as completed on Goodreads. I was beginning to lose faith in this series because book two was a very weak sequel in my opinion and the first half of this book took me quite a while to finish. I will admit that I did skim read quite a few chapters in here (I found the addition of POVs other than lila/rhy/alucard/holland's quite slow), but it finally gained speed in the last half. A lot of the reason I didn't enjoy the middle of this series is because I'm really not a fan of books about pirates, or books that take place on boats. If i'd known that a huge chunk of this series was about being out at sea, I would have been far more wary to pick it up, but it was worth it in the end!I think Kell is one of the most interesting characters that I've read about in a long time. It was so engaging to be inside his head and to think and feel the way that he does. He's a refreshing, fully fleshed out character. He compliments every other character so well, and the way that he interacts with other people was just fascinating. I began the series hating Lila because I was like whY ARE U SO RECKLESS WITH THIS ROCK UR LITERALLY GONNA KILL EVERYONE AND THEN DIE U ARE SO DUMB but by this book i was like "pls knife me also i love you, my mother." Her dialogue and her attitude and the way that she demands respect from other characters is so refreshing and empowering. I only wish her relationship with Kell could be explored further, but the book ended too soon. And Rhy. My son. My baby. I love him so fucking much. I was crying so hard for him at the end of this book that I had to put it down. Victoria wrote so much heartwrenching material for him, and yet he remained a character that provided comedic relief and realness and bravery and I LOVE HIM IDK WHY I'M TALKING ABOUT HIM LIKE HE'S A REAL PERSON I WANT TO PROTECT HIM AT ALL COSTSalucard is awesome i love the fanart he has a man bun in most of it 10/10We're not gonna talk about Holland but asdfghjkl; YES bUT ALSO NO BUT ALSO YES I LOVE HIMLong story short, this had a LOT of plot to wade through, and I skipped some chapters from irrelevant side characters (even Osaron lmao whoops but really what did he add ~nothing~). The final battle scene became a little confusing just because this is one of those books that just throws loopholes in your face at the last minute like "we've been working for over 3 books to defeat this thing and by the way i just remembered something to stop the evil that could have ended this 1,000 pages ago!" But BESIDES that, it's a fabulous book with memorable characters.I love Holland. I love Kell. I love Lila. I love Rhy. Alucard is ok. ajfldsjfdjksa fkdlsa to those who keep asking, this series is worth it.
3967937866	4.75 o 5NO SE LO AMO DEMASIADO AHHHHpor favor lean estos libros y enamórense de los personajes y la historia y TODO.
2389138772	** spoiler alert ** Dear. Lord.Where do I begin to gather my feelings?Cause there are many.I feel so vindicated with Holland. I loved him from the beginning and felt like the rug was going to get pulled out from under me at any moment. But no. He is great. Fantastically grey and mysteriously heroic. His death had me crying. After the two other false deaths he had, that ending had me fucked up. It was so sad and freeing and beautiful. I wish it hadn’t happened but it was as fitting an ending as I assume he could be given. The relationships are really what drove the series. Lila/Kell and Alucard/Rhy were so fleshed out and slow burn. But what I was surprised by was the platonic relationships. Kell/Rhy was essential and so strong and beautiful. Also Lila/Alucard I fell in love with immediately and couldn’t part with. So beautiful and clever. Lila/Kell/Holland was so intriguing and hilarious. I need a whole other book just exploring that dynamic. I love the characters so much! It isn’t often that I adore the main characters but this changed that. The only characters of the entire series that I could not stand was the king and queen. I know we got to understand them more in this book but it didn’t change my mind. The Catelyn Stark mentality drives me to beat my fist on my countertops. Not that it’s unrealistic. Not by far. It just infuriates me. This series is phenomenal. I recommend 100%. I can’t wait to see what happens with Threads of Magic. But, more than that, I need a movie or a tv show.
1881274125	EDIT: I'm reducing my rating to three stars. Partially, I've read more at this point and have reduced a lot of my book ratings. Partially I just feel my opinion of this drop every time I think about it. This book was really so bland and so flat compared to the other two. Yes, it's a good conclusion, but I don't feel it added enough character development, enough plot, enough intrigue, enough anything. V.E. Schwab can do better. She HAS done better. This book offered me a fairly bad reading experience, and I can't ignore that, no matter how much I love this series. I really only have one complaint, and it's nothing new for this series, so I shouldn't feel disappointed at all. But I can't ignore that this... took me over a week to read. I NEVER take this long to read books. MY LOVE-HATE RELATIONSHIP WITH V.E. SCHWAB'S PLOTTINGI love so much about this series. The plotting is not one of those things. The plot is directionless. This is an issue I had with all three books of this series, and it's actually the one thing about this series I actively dislike. On one hand, I love the extended character work. On the other hand, there's no urgency behind the plot. That was tolerable in Gathering of Shadows, but here, the five main characters are trying to save the war, and yet they spend 400 pages screwing around. This book took me over a week, and I usually finish books in three days. That's kind of an issue. Usually, I'd ignore that ONE flaw, but I can't lie, I really hoped and expected Schwab would fix it here. Instead, it got worse. I just generally found the action of this book so meh, so lukewarm, so uninteresting. This conclusion felt like unnecessary drama that everyone was coming home from. It felt pointless. Without my love for the major characters, I don't know if I would've liked ANYTHING about this book.Also, and I'm nitpicking here, I still don't understand why Lila, Kell, and Holland don't just carry a ton of white and grey London trinkets with them. Why don't all of you just carry coins from Grey London? C'mon, wouldn't Lila have stolen enough from Grey London at this point? Do the trinkets have to be emotionally significant? BACK TO YOUR REGULARLY SCHEDULED I LOVE THIS SERIES MONTAGE* V.E. Schwab's writing style is incredible. It flows super well and manages to break my heart, but isn't annoying or pretentious at all. That's a hard balance and her books are worth reading for that reason alone. * Schwab's talent for describing setting especially stands out here. Usually I can't picture any settings in books, but I have such clear mental images of every moment in this book. * Kell is such a realistic character. He never seems like a caricature– he's a bit morally imperfect, not always the nicest, but loyal to the nth degree. He's just so interesting and fun to see on page. * Lila is STILL my chaotic neutral wife. She's a bit more mature here, but with the same reckless streak. I love her development. She's great to see on page– her dialogue is funny and entertaining. * Rhy's character development is perfectly executed. Again, he's such an imperfect person but he's still so lovable. And I cry. * Holland is so morally bankrupt and yet I love him so, so much. (view spoiler)[His ending made me both smile and cry. (hide spoiler)]* Alucard may have suffered a bit from I-have-an-archetypal-tragic-backstory syndrome a bit, but he was still a great character. I wished his sister could've been addressed a bit more. * I love the complex dynamics between all the characters. V.E. Schwab does an incredible job with the platonic relationships here. I especially loved Rhy and Kell here. And Kell and Holland have the best, most complex friendship ever. * The romance is built up very subtly and not the major focus. But oh damn, the romance is well written. I was so, so happy about Lila and Kell's relationship ending. Schwab knows how to write romance in a subtle but still swoon-worthy way. There's a sex scene in here that I actually genuinely kind of... enjoyed?? I hate sex scenes in books. Hate them. And yet... ya girl liked a sex scene. I know, I'm surprised too. * Also Rhy and Alucard were maybe one of the few new things in this book and they're really good?? This update is a complete callout for them. Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
4041231764	“Life isn’t made of choices, it’s made of trades. Some are good, some are bad, but they all have a cost.” ✅✅ Characters and interactions✅ Writing✅ World-building✅ Plot✅ Pace / Action✅ Atmosphere ✅🆗 Light romance Excuse me while I wipe away my tears. Happy tears. And sad tears too. “We don't choose what we are, but we choose what we do.” Wow, this adventure was amazing. I think this was my favorite book in the series. The pace, the action, the politics, and the betrayals. Give me a break, my poor heart! The fact that the chapters are so short definitely does not help me to stop reading this book at a reasonable hour... The "one more chapter" syndrome at 1:00 a.m. was hard to fight with this book. The book is 600 pages, but I still flew through it and everything was well explained and developed, while also feeling like a non-stop adventure. The world-building is amazing as always, and the magic system still impresses me, even after reading the first two books. The plot of this whole series is great, but the characters are what make this series truly amazing. I love them all more with each book. Their personality, and their interactions, it's all so fulfilling and delightful to read. They all grew and changed so much since the first book, and I cared about them all, even the secondary ones. You should also know that not all of the cast survives this book. get ready for some deaths (yes. multiple.). “What are we drinking to?”“The living,” said Rhy.“The dead,” said Alucard and Lila at the same time.“We’re being thorough,” added Rhy. The mix of seriousness, banter, and sarcasm in the character's interactions is awesome. This book is darker than the previous ones, but this touch of humor helped lighten the dark atmosphere all throughout the book. But Kell knew he couldn't break Holland.Holland was already broken. It showed, not in the scars, but in the way he spoke, the way he held himself in the face of pain, too well acquainted with its shape and scale. He was a man hollowed out long before Osaron, a man with no fear and no hope and nothing to lose. “Death comes for us all," said Holland evenly. "I would simply have mine mean something.” Holland. 🖤 🤍 I love him so much, and I am SO HAPPY that he gets a bigger role in this final book. I fell in love with him in the first book, and we didn't much of him until the third book, so I was starting to wonder if I was crazy to like him so much when we'd seen so few of him, and most of the time he was portrayed as "the bad guy". We got to know him so much more in A Conjuring of Light! He is a good man that lived through a ton of shitty situations and has been taken advantage of for most of his life. My poor Holland, I really liked his complexity, and I would have liked even more of him in this book. I am not a fan of flashbacks to help us better understand a situation or a character, but in the case of Holland, it was perfectly done. It was strange, fighting besides Kell instead of agaisnt him, the resonance of their styles, so different but somehow in sync - unnerving. At last! It happened! I made no secret of my wish for Kell and Holland to become allies since their first meeting in A Darker Shade of Magic. I also secretly hoped that they would become best buddies, but maybe that was a little too far-fetched considering everything. 😅 Still, I was so happy when they started to work together (and also with Lila), and when they had each other's backs, oh my, I was rooting for them out loud and cheering for Holland. He deserves a ton of love and friendship after everything he's been through, he is a human punching bag, I want to hug him. “She was a thief, a runaway, a pirate, a magician.She was fierce, and powerful, and terrifying.She was still a mystery.And he loved her.”“I have never known what to make of you. Not since the day we met. And it terrifies me. You terrify me. And the idea of you walking away again, vanishing from my life, that terrifies me most of all.” Lila is still amazing, and so is Kell (my baby I love him so much ❤️🖤💙). I already explained in my previous reviews how much I loved them both (although Kell is my favorite among them) so I will keep this part short and just remind everyone that Kell is perfect and I want his magic coat. The relationship between him and Lila finally moves forward! I have to say though that I am a little disappointed. There is a more "intense" scene between them, but except for those few pages, we can't feel the sexual tension between them at all, which is alright considering that they are on a mission to save the world, but it just felt like an interaction that was added to the book just so we could get a little steamy moment between them. The build-up is not really there... But who am I to complain? They love each other and they kick ass together so I am happy! “I told you to keep him safe, not cuddle."Alucard spread his hands behind him on the sheets. "I'm more than capable of multitasking”A low whistle behind him as Alucard appeared at the entrance."Picking out a gift?" asked the captain."No.""Good, then take this". He dropped a ring into Kell's hand.Kell frowned. "I'm flattered, but I think you're asking the wrong brother." I love Alucard, granted, I can't resist a dashing pirate (privateer, sorry) with a sarcastic attitude and way too much confidence. I loved seeing him with Rhy, and I want more of them. Can we have a novella about Rhy and Alucard, please? They are both sweet and funny and I. Need. More.Oh my, and what to say about Rhy’s and Kell’s relationship?! It is so strong and pure and beautiful, they made me cry and I am not even ashamed of it. Rhy Maresh is one of the characters who changed the most all throughout this series, and I LOVE HIM, and I love him and Kell together even more. (view spoiler)[ Rhy bowed his head, suddenly tired. “I wish I could go with you.”“So do I,” said Kell, “but the empire needs its king.”Softly, Rhy said, “The king needs his brother.” Kell’s eyes went to the palace one last time, and he thought he could almost make out the shape of a man standing alone on a high balcony. At this distance, he was little more than a shadow, but Kell could see the band of gold glinting in his hair as a second figure came to stand beside the king.Rhy raised his hand, and so did Kell, a single unspoken word between them.Anoshe. (hide spoiler)] "Anoshe-- until another day.""Anoshe was a word for strangers in the street, and lovers between meetings, for parents and children, friends and family. It softened the blow of leaving. Eased the strain of parting. A careful nod to the certainty of today, the mystery of tomorrow. When a friend left, with little chance of seeing home, they said anoshe. When a loved one was dying, they said anoshe. When corpses were burned, bodies given back to the earth and souls to the stream, those left grieving said anoshe.Anoshe brought solace. And hope. And the strength to let go." 1. A Darker Shade of Magic ⭐⭐⭐⭐.52. A Gathering of Shadows ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Follow me on Instagram 🙂
3870333275	“Love and loss,” he said, “are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be..” “Scars are not shameful, not unless you let them be. If you do not wear them, they will wear you..” This revieuw does not contain large spoilers , the large spoilers are marked with spoiler tags. it also doesnt contain large spoilers for the previous two books in the series. ! You know that feeling you have when you really lovee a series and it ends and you just feel so sad because it has ended and there wont be anymore new content of the charracters you came too love , the dynamics you came too love , the world you came too love? But also that happy feeling that you found the series and can re-read it over and over again. Yep well krizzie is having that feeling rightnow after finishing this series. i am pain , i am destoryed , i am already missing this story and i am going too be deceased now so bye. so i say Anoshe [ fans will understand * sobs * ] This series is just freaking awesome and just so good. I want too throw it in all of you people their faces and scream Read this now. or else mhuahahaha. No but seriously if you havent readed this series , you are missing something. In this revieuw i will basically be talking what makes this overall series so good and what made this book good and at the end of my revieuw there is a spoiler section.. Why read this series ?! , what makes this series so good? - an amazing urban fantasy world we have 4 londons but they are all in different worlds which is really cool , a lot of magic , darkness , queens and kings and just awesomeness + the beautiful writing makes it feel like you are actually in all these londons. - Morally grey charracters with also an amazing dynamic together The charracter carry this series and i have come too love them all somuch. We have Kell our little grumpy sarcastic bean protector who feels like he is stuck in the life he has , Lila Our sassy stabby wanna be pirate that struggels letting people in but in this book learns that while also staying true too herself. Rhy who owns charracter development , our sassy prince who grows intoo too be an amazing caring king who fights with the darkness inside of him , Alucard aka Luc my other bean also sarcastic , caring , amazing. and Holland our moral grey magician with a tragic past who also needs too be protected at all cost. These charracters as indivuduals all have their own personality and somany layers and together as a crew they shine. They have somuch banter and all the dynamics + the overall dynmaic just fits. Especially in this book the dynamic feels are so strong between the whole group. - Slowburn romances !!!! - beautiful writing with somany beautiful quotes and lines !!!! - amazing friendship dynamics [ alucard + lila , Rhy + kell , Holland + kell , kell + allucard aaaHHH- lots of emotions too destroy you. - diversity in fantasy What i loved about this book This one is probably my favorite out of the three but its really close with a gathering of shadows. The book is super fast paced and full of amazingly written action scenes. It also gives us more background information on some of the charracters that we get too know better in this book which i loved trough flashbacks , a very anxious plot where the stakes are high , emotinal rollercoaster vibes and beautiful writing overall with somany beautiful quotes. The way Ve schwab has again written such a good book with amazing writing and amazing dynamics and charracters just blows me away. I also highkey love the ending of this book and its exactly how the ending should be < 3 (view spoiler)[Lila has learned too let people in , in the end and goes on more adventures like she always wanted too as the captain on her own pirate ship * sobs * , Kell who discovered he wanted more of life in this book is with her and ugh i cant. these two are perfect together and right now being on a ship having adventures together and he is now free , holland has died in piece which was very sad but the ending fitted his story , he died knowing he did something good for the world and he died in peace in his home , which is now safe because of him. (hide spoiler)]Overall i just love the stories of these charracter that Ve Schwab created in this series and it will always stay a part of me. “It wasn’t a good-bye, not really.What was the word for parting?Anoshe.That was it.Until another day.” also i am so excited for that we might get a spinnoff of this series ! aaaah.
1569083817	The third definitely has a very good and satisfying end. :)It's pretty much an epic ride and destruction of Kell's homeland, with the demon of chaos and magic running rampant and generally being smarter than the rest of the characters as well as being a lot more powerful. I was sitting on the edge of my seat to see just how our heroes would pull off a fix or even if there could be a fix.It is definitely hard to pull off a good end with a series like this, but I'm happy to say that the author does it, wrapping up so many loose ends and even addressing the original first book's trick by forcing us down the path of a truly hard fix. And it was hard. And painful. There were deaths.I definitely don't have any complaints. :) I really enjoyed this book. It has quite the pathos, great action, and tons of magic and, of course, many destructions of all, or almost all, Londons. :)What more can we ask for? We all love to see London burn, don't we? :)I totally recommend for story and character and all the magical goodness. :)
1618696501	I'm so not ready for this to be over. I feel a book hangover coming on...all I want to do is reread the entire series again.
2158666930	I. Love. This. More. Than. I. Love. Pasta. And. I. Freaking. Adore. Pasta.
1647888773	not as good as A Gathering of Shadows, but better than A Darker Shade of Magic.all in all, a solid conclusion to the trilogy, even though there were some draggy parts weighing it down. a scattering of thoughts and opinions:lila is still the best thing about this series. she of the “jaunty posturing” and quick knives and aptitude unfettered by training. i was a bit disappointed (view spoiler)[that she turned out to be antari, because i was hoping she’d be some new kind of power, standing apart and alone, forging her own mythology as she went. (hide spoiler)] but she’s still my favorite, full of wit and grit and stabbing, and i appreciated the moments where her confidence was rattled, her skills not enough, her limits exposed, because a badass who can be beaten is much more interesting than one who cannot. holland also gets my thumbs-up here. he becomes more sympathetic with backstory reveals, and considering all he went through back in book two-town, "No one suffers as beautifully as you do" and all, can’t we cut him a little slack already? such a raw deal for poor holland. he never gets to have a nice day. (view spoiler)[and i do not understand his final scene, he just … dies like he’s some kind of heroine in a victorian novel, implausibly sudden, from unspecified causes. considering what he’s endured i understand the temptation to give up and will death to come, but still - disappointing, considering he knows the most and has survived the most and has the most to teach about pain and perspective. (hide spoiler)]”It does nothing to dwell on what’s been taken from you,” he snarled. ”Nothing.” rhy and alucard are easy to love, even if, like me, you hate the name “alucard” and, also like me, you are not into romance. i just like them as characters, so when they are getting their smirch on, it doesn’t bore me the way lovey-dovey stuff usually does. plus, rhy got to do and be more in this one, so he became more human and less archetype, which always helps me root for a character.kell is… still pretty boring. he holds it all together; he’s the narrative anchor or linchpin, but he’s not nearly as interesting as the rest of his posse, red hair and flashy coat notwithstanding. i am pleased to have more of a sense of maxim and emira, for what it’s worth. leftover questions:what’s with all the ned stuff? i can’t see any narrative reason for bringing that in so late in the book unless it is meant to be setting up some spin-off action. (view spoiler)[i mean, it feels like there’s a chance king george got him some shadow-eyes, right? (hide spoiler)]where does all of this leave nasi? she’s there to be a pair of eyes to witness the thing that happens, but once she serves that purpose, she’s just abandoned and i’m not even sure what the shape of that world is anymore.and cora - i feel like it might be important to know who helped her with that last thing she does, right???there are probably more questions, but they can just stay in my head with the rest of the chattering nonsense.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1823367184	The end of the magical mystery tour . . . a very unique and creative (wait, don’t those kinda mean the same thing???) epic adventure. The series has sorcery, pirates, intrigue, competition, humor, and lots and lots of blood! It is a pretty well done and entertaining story. I cannot say for sure if it will appeal to everyone. At times – specifically in book one and book three – there were a few times it slowed down a bit and got a bit draggy. But, what makes me feel confident in giving this book and the series overall a positive review is that 95% of the time I was following the action (which is sometime not completely easy for me in made up magical worlds) and, even when it slowed down, it always sped back up and got interesting. I liked the characters, their individual stories, and how they all became intertwined throughout the narrative. If you are a fan of fantasy/YA fantasy, I think you should give this series a go. I cannot imagine you won’t like it, and you may even love it! I look forward to trying out some of Schwab’s other novels.
1859832133	I AM GOING TO NEED A MINUTE..... and three days later, I took my minute. There is nothing wrong with anything that happens in these series. Everything is planned. Everything is beautiful and painful and wonderful. This is one of the best stories told in all the books that I have ever read, listen to or heard of. “Scars are not shameful, not unless you let them be. If you do not wear them, they will wear you." These whole series has a whole beautiful world(s) of magic, but they aren't overwhelming. The adventure never stops yet... no the adventure never stops and neither does your heart. There are equal roles of male and female characters. Speaking of the characters, they are so completely and utterly flawed. There's a pirate girl who takes everything to heart and will kill herself to prove she is the best. There is a broody guy who carries the world on his shoulders and does things without thinking it through. There's a prince who doesn't really have the magic that his previously mentioned brother has, but he will make everyone love him even if he has to become someone he isn't. A once-lord who drastically swung the other way and hurt those who he loves most in the making of the masquerade that doesn't fit well on his face. And then there is a man who is willing to do anything to save his white-world, including at the expense of any other worlds. And that's exactly what the beginning of this book tells you. This man brought over some magical wanna-be god because he didn't want him to ruin his world. The last two books were just the beginning. They were all building up to this book. A book that doesn't stop and a book that you won't want it to stop. I would tell you I have a favorite character, but I don't think I can choose. Kell got the adventure he asked for but didn't want. Rhy got the people's love but not in the way he planned. Holland broke out of his chains to be put in another. Alucard got what he loved the most and lost what he held most dear. Lila got the adventure she wanted at a high cost.I just have nothing bad to say about this book. But I can't find words to tell you how beautiful and wonderful and spectacular THIS book is. This series is. The ending of this book is one that will break your heart. But I was super satisfied (yet still completely broken). I'm not sure if it will be because of how it got there, what happens to certain characters, or if you will just break because this is the end of the story. But V.E. Schwab, or better known as Victoria Schwab, does write more books, and beautifully... so beautifully, and she does have a lot of brain-children to write to us. So know that your heart will probably break again. “What are we drinking to?""The living," said Rhy."The dead," said Alucard and Lila at the same time."We're being thorough," added Rhy.” And I, for one, welcome it.
1923787062	Schwab nicely balances multiple characters, plotlines, and flashbacks to tie together a very solid trilogy. The strongest parts of this series has always been the rich world-building and the engaging characters - this final book remains consistent with delivering these strengths into a satisfying and well-written conclusion.
1926614209	** 5 "PERFECT ENDING TO A GREAT SERIES" ! **I couldn't have imagined any better ending to this amazing series that now holds such a special place in my heart ! It was a very satisfying and brilliant conclusion, action-packed from beginning to end, with a strong and smart plot full of magic and fights, pirates and princes, and an overall atmosphere that felt dark and mesmerizing ! I never once got even slightly bored while reading it, and the some 620 pages were just pure bliss !Now, though I loved this final book and its characters just as much as in the previous books, I still didn’t feel as strongly passionate about them as in book 1 and 2. Maybe it’s due to the fact that the book was told from so many different POV and with sometimes short chapters making it hard to recreate a strong connection to the characters when the POV kept changing or because it had been several months since I had read AGOS, idk. Don’t get me wrong though, I was still very much attached to them but I thought this final instalment was not as character driven, except for Holland but we’ll come back to him later ;)- Throughout the entire series, I thought Kell was a constant character, always staying true to himself. Since book 1, I have loved him and he remained the entire time my baby. I love how kind and selfless he is, especially when it comes to his beautiful and strong relationship with his brother, Rhy : he would always think about Rhy first, before thinking about himself, always watching out for him and making sure he’s okay. In this book, I also loved Kell’s behavior towards Holland, how he was the only one really trying to understand Holland and where he comes from, protecting him at all costs when everyone else (Lila and Alucard) were always threatening his life. - Speaking of Lila, she was as badass as in the previous books, still liked her very much, but I found I got annoyed at some point with her always being so reckless and stubborn , especially when it came to (view spoiler)[using her powers when she’s been Antari for all of 2 days (hide spoiler)], and never listening to Kell or Alucard’s advice. Also, I was irritated with her always wanting to kill Holland without trying to understand him and all he’s been through, it got really old at some point. (view spoiler)[ Thankfully, she redeemed herself towards the end when she finally felt shame after attacking Holland when he had actually saved her life !! (hide spoiler)] - As for Alucard , I thought he was the character that went the most unnoticed in this final book. I missed his cockiness from book 2 and thought his story revolved too much around his relationship with Rhy and nothing else. Once again, don’t get me wrong, I love Alucard-Rhy, but I wish his past and the reason he left Rhy had been more developed and in-depth. However, I have to say I was thrilled with his constant bickering with Kell !!- In the entire trilogy, Rhy might be the character that grew the most , in my opinion. I obviously love him, how he loves his city and its people, how he’s willing to die for them, showing he’ll be a great king. I still missed his old arrogance and lightness from book 1 and 2 though, but it’s quite understandable that he had to be more serious and mature in this one considering the circumstances. However, at times, I had a hard time really understanding his reckless and useless behavior like when (view spoiler)[he went to face Osaron on his own without any power or anything to defend himself, I didn’t really understand what he meant to do by that except getting hurt and worrying Kell even more (hide spoiler)] .- And finally, last but not least, Holland , for me the star of this book ! I have liked Holland since book 1, I mean I always love me some tortured and dark character who hides a hard past. I loved finally discovering Holland’s past, his story really broke my heart, but it helped understanding him better, and in the end, he turned out to be the character that made me feel the most in this final book. The ending especially was sad and heartbreaking, but at the same time beautiful (view spoiler)[when Kell brought him back to White London and Holland died peacefully at the place he considers home despite all the suffering he went through there and despite the fact that in the end, Holland couldn’t save his beloved city that he fought so much for : this moment broke my heart and got a tear out of me (hide spoiler)]. All in all, the characters - very diverse, mature, funny, deep and complex - and the world building - billiant, magical, complex and fascinating - are what made this whole series to me from the start. The series had such a way to hook me in its universe and its different Londons and ways of magic, it was such a delight each time to dive back into the world and its characters that I came to care so much about. I'm so sad this is the end and I'll never get back to this wonderful world and I have to leave the characters, but at the same time it was such a satisfying ending and I can't regret it !! Now, I can't wait to discover VE Schwab's other books which I'm sure will be as great a her Shade of Magic series !!
1837636579	UPDATE 3/30/172.5 starsI realize now that I was trying to convince myself that I liked it more than I actually do. I'm honestly really disappointed because the series had so much potential and I liked the first one so much that, in hindsight, this third book just feels like a missed opportunity. Honestly, it was actually pretty boring. :(ORIGINAL3.5ish stars. Although my least favorite of the trilogy, it's still solid and I still recommend the series to all. Maybe it's just me but I feel like this book doesn't even have a lot in common with A Darker Shade- the series has morphed from beginning to end. Book 1 was fast and magical and creative; book 2 was a little longer and a little less exciting; book 3 ends up being almost twice as long as book 1 making it feel bloated and less innovative and more traditional high fantasy. And it's good for what it is, just not what I expected or hoped for. Lilah is still my favorite character besides Kell's coat, but it was good to see Holland get some time in the limelight. One thing I did love about this was the Ferase Stras, the floating black market, and its queen, Maris. I also thought things ended appropriately and very satisfyingly. V.E. Schwab is now officially on my radar, excited to see what fantastic worlds she brings us next.
2599444771	Shades of Magic: 5 glowing Red Stars1) A Darker Shade of Magic: ★★★★★/52) A Gathering of Shadows: ★★★★(★)/53) A Conjuring of Light: ★★★★★/5Second read 2025, as surprising as the first time.After years, I returned to it & now finished my reread.I savored it, reading it slowly. loved it more this time.I want to dive into Shades of Magic world again! already missed Rhy & Kell & Lila & Alucard!-4.75 Golden Starswhat a beautiful story!what a graceful writing.the second series I started & finished in 2018!all the parts were amazing & full of excitement (even the sea parts, which is usually my least favourite scenes)even the slow pace didn't bother me. (If you know me. you'd know I usually don't like slow pace)the whole world started crumbling down, the problem whirling around, everyone trying to find a solution ASAP & all those events happening was exhilarating & horrifying.I loved it!the only thing made me disappointed: (view spoiler)[We can't possibly know where Kell came from. (hide spoiler)] I was curious & I even had some hypothesis & I was dying to know if that was true but, I can't.update 2024: if you felt like me, check this short story out: A Life ErasedI love to read about parallel universes in fantasy!also the other thing I loved; it was a palace story, but not medieval like world or full of let-me-dress-you-up maids. Awesome! it was a magnificent palace/prince world!amazing cast of characters!:I loved Kell & Rhy. & Hastra. & Luc. & even Lila, Holland, Sol-in-Ar!Schwab is one of my favourite authors because of her elegant writing style. & especially I liked the back & forth from time to time or place to place in chapters.-World Building: ★★★★★/5Characters: ★★★★/5/Characters developments: ★★★★/5Plot: ★★★★(★)/5Writing style: ★★★★★/5general idea: ★★★★★/5-[one day I will have this gorgeous edition!]4th of September 2019: I finally bought this edition & I'm so happy! I didn't know my wish comes true so soon! I'm crying! <3
2796767522	Catch me in the grave with tear-stained cheeks because of this book. “You told me once,” said Kell, “that you are either magic’s master or its slave. So which are you now?” “That’s what you don’t understand,” said Holland, letting the emptiness fold over him. “I have only ever be its slave.”To my understanding, A Conjuring of Light was supposed to be the final installment of this series, not the final installment of my life. Pardon me for expecting to emerge with some semblance of sanity. ~★~ Plot ~★~ “It’s too easy.”“Killing? Of course it is.” Said Vortalis. “Living with it, that’s the hard part. But sometimes, it’s worth it. Sometimes, it’s necessary.”Brilliance is the word for V.E Schwab's intricate prose. With the astounding world building and character development established in previous instalments, A Conjuring of Light is all high stakes, leaving endless possibilities for the story's direction. I don’t think I took a breath between chapters; there certainly isn't time to cool down in between. The plot was consistently relentless, leaving me trapped in it's vicious grip. This story refused to leave my head, even when I wasn’t reading. Nothing drags in the slightest. Readers are thrown into the brunt of action from chapter 1, which is only a glimpse of the ride to come. ~★~ Characters ~★~ “He was meant to be your shield,” she murmured. “Your shelter. You were never meant to be his.”It still awes me- the skill it took to create such wonderful and intricate characters, paired with the amount by which I’m attached to them.Anyone who has read the Shades of Magic knows how lovely this cast is. The bonds and relationships formed between them is what makes the plot so much greater than its face value. Wonderful, well developed characters can really make a series for me, and Schwab nailed that aspect along with every other. ~★~ Relationships ~★~ “Love and loss,” he said, “are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be.”The bonds between these characters have been slowly chipping away at me. I can’t get enough of them and their reckless actions done out of love for one another.Three relationships out of the many in this series really warmed my heart, and each focuses on a different sort of bond.Lila and AlucardThe love of a friend"Do you ever get tired of running, Bard?"She cocked her head. "No."Alucard's gaze went to the horizon. "Then you haven't left enough behind."Though Lila and Alucard almost killed each other upon first glance, they topped the list of my favourite friendships in this series. Considering their confidence and trust in one another, their friendship seems years in the making, when in reality they met mere months ago.Dialogue between these two never fails to bring a smile to my face. I find it hilarious the way they feel is necessary to speak when in the presence of each other. They gave me something to smile about in the midst of this insane plot.Kell and RhyBrotherly love“That kind of love, that bond, it goes both ways. I would kill for him, and I would die for him, and I will protect him however I am able,”I started and finished this series thinking about these two. The undying sibling love that Kell and Rhy share is incredibly raw and pure. Rhy would do anything if it only meant Kell’s happiness. Kell would rather die than be the cause of his brother's suffering. The way their bond is portrayed can be described as nothing short of gorgeous.Rhy and AlucardThe romantic sort of love “One day you will be old and wrinkled, and I will still love you.”The prince and the captain- the two that have made me fall over myself with joy. Every interaction between these lovers was one that I didn’t want to have end. I distinctly remember my reaction during A Gathering of Shadows, when we first discovered this duo. I remember smiling wide, then closing the book for a minute in attempt at coming down from my elation. Rhy deserves the world- and if Alucard is a little bit of that to him, I’m so glad he can have it.Holland Vosijk“Death comes for us all,” said Holland evenly. “I would simply have mine mean something.”Since the beginning, I’ve been pulling for Holland to get his happy ending. The fact that he played something of a major role in this book was fantastic. It was great getting bits of his past recounted in A Conjuring of Light. I maintained a hope throughout the series that someone would see Holland for who he is, rather than seeing him littered with deep scars. I’m glad he found his peace, despite the circumstances.~★~ All in all, this series, this story, these characters- they’ll be with me for a very long while. I don’t want to forget any of it, as this was a truly beautiful reading experience.
1616062270	My husband said something last year that really resonates with me, and is truer than I'd ever want to admit. He knows I love The Hunger Games more than any other book in the universe, that it will forever and always be my favorite trilogy in the world...and what he said is so astute, I didn't realize it myself: I will always be chasing that exact same high. I will never be as deeply satisfied as I was/am with that series. And that has always been the case...Until now. This series is everything I could ever want, need, or wish to be a part of. No amount of re-reads will ever suffice, and I will never have a negative thing to say about it. I have found THG equal, and all I want to do is rejoice. I just wish it hadn't taken me a week to read it, being pregnant and now sick and all. But the peril, general mayhem and destruction, and self-sacrifice and love more than carried me through my stunted reading, and that too says everything.Thank you, Victoria Schwab, for making this a top series of all time. RTC-I hope. Just very swollen, achy, and without energy! Poo.For more of my reviews, please visit: *****************Let's do this.**************Okay so I'm like the LAST person on Earth to see this but.....THIS COVER OMFG IT'S GORGEOUS!!! I can barely contain my inner fangirl... Oh who am I kidding??? I CAN'T CONTAIN A SHRED OF IT!!!! Bravo. I'm impressed.
1959727214	At this point I don't have the words to describe how I'm feeling other than p e r f e c t i o n !!
1847156883	The perfect ending to the perfect series. I just can't say enough good things about this book. If you were waiting for the series to be written before starting it, you're now out of excuses. This series ends the way it began: with a man in a peculiar coat and a thief named Delilah Bard.
4236586213	~ 3.5 stars ~"Love and loss are like a ship and the sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be."A Conjuring of Light was certainly an improvement from A Gathering of Shadows. Which is great. I could actually enjoy this. It wasn't a complete bore, and I appreciate that. It had action, adventure, and purpose. All the things that I felt were missing in the last book.But unfortunately, the problems of book 2 are still lingering. I still don't like most of the characters. I lost a lot of my initial interest and I just didn't care about what would happened next. I was ready for this book to be over as soon as I started it. So while I do think that the A Darker Shade of Magic trilogy is pretty solid as a whole, I have issues with it. I'm glad to have finally gotten around to trying out V.E Schwab's works, and I certainly do look forward to reading more from this author. art credit
1872367331	4.5 Lila please don't stab me StarsPerspective is everything. You really can’t judge another person until you walk a mile in their shoes. I was upset with Holland in the last book but I sort of understood where he was coming from. In this book though when you get flashbacks to his life in White London and the tragedy of it along with how much he wanted to save it only too know it was doomed, well it gave me perspective. After that I really couldn’t help but like the guy most of the time and hope that he made it out alive and might save his beloved home. Did he???? Well to find that out and more you will have to read the book.We hit the ground running pretty hard in this book and it really only let up a few times for us to catch our breath. Overall for this series I really enjoy the writing and the way the story is conveyed. The present and flashback scenes work for me as a reader to give more depth to the characters and the motivations they have. The prose is something that I really enjoyed as well statements like In palace balls and tournament games they were mismatched, awkward, but they understood each other here and now, surrounded by danger and death.And Now that Alucard was alive and more or less upright, Rhy couldn’t bring himself to look at his lover, and couldn’t bear to look away, so he ended up doing both and neither. It had been so long since Rhy’d been able to study his face. Three summers. Three winters. Three years, and the prince’s heart still cracked along the lines Alucard had made. This was not a happy tale. There are happy parts but with that thing that came from Black London there is so much death everywhere. So many moments where someone I had come to like ended up dying. Some of those deaths were heroic and some shocking and devastating. This is not a book where in the middle you are sure that the hero will make it to the end. This is a story where you are pretty sure that at least one of the characters you have become extremely attached to will not come out of the other side alive. “Myths do not happen all at once. They do not spring forth whole into the world. They form slowly, rolled between the hands of time until their edges smooth, until the saying of the story gives enough weight to the words—to the memories—to keep them rolling on their own.” I would say that this is a very good wrap up to the initial story that was presented to the reader. BUT…I think that maybe we could see some more in this world as some various interesting things were opened up by the end. I for one really wanted to know more about the magic across the different Londons and if there could be a way to find a balance for it. Is White London really as doomed but in a different way than Black London? Is Gray London getting some seepage of magic into it since Ned is now able to do very limited magic where there should be none? Did Red London do something to siphon the magic into that world and that is why there isn’t a balance? Just so you know none of those questions were answered and I’m totally fine with it since that wasn’t what the story was about but if there are more books in this world I hope that is covered.I really like all the character connections in this story. Rhy & Kell’s brotherly love for one another, Holland & Kell with their begrudging respect of the other, Kell & Lila and their acceptable of exactly who the other is and Rhy & Alucard for the love affair they once shared and the hope that they can find that once again. And then of course there is the relationship of all of them against the big bad that is the sentient magic from Black London. Each relationship got at least one shining moment in this if not more and it was enough for me. Rhy & Kell’s bond is so special though Rhy shook his head, exasperated. “Kell isn't the only one you fail to understand. My bond with him didn't start with this curse. You wanted him to kill for me, die for me, protect me at all costs. Well, Mother, you got your wish. You simple failed to realize that that kind of love, that bond, it goes both ways. I would kill for him, and I would die for him, and I will protect him however I am able, from Faro and Vesk, from White London, and Black London, and from you.” Overall as a series I really enjoy how this all played out. There are some HEAs, there are some consequences to live with and there are some heroic deaths but all in all every main character had their moment in the spotlight to really shine with what they were capable of doing and I feel like this story completed itself very nicely. That said I’m hoping for some other stories set in this world.
1572875198	“I’m beginning to think that thrones make tyrants of us all.” It’s 1:37am and ten minutes ago, right as the clock transformed from 1:26 to 1:27, I finished this book. Sleep is calling for me so heavily right now, but I won’t be able to rest until I type up all these words that are ricocheting inside me are transferred into a review. I took over 100 notes with this book. (I never take notes. I think the last time I took a note on a book was when Matthias’s ghost wouldn’t associate with Kaz’s ghost.) But it is beyond past my bedtime and I am not going to try to make sense of sober Emi’s thoughts. I think half of my notes were inside jokes I am too tired to understand right now anyways. So let’s just give this review a go. It's going to be sloppy, but when I'm awake later I'll organize everything. A Darker Shade of Magic has been one of my favorite book series, if not my favorite series. I fell in love with this world Victoria had created so quickly that I almost didn’t know what to do with all her words. I waited impatiently for A Gathering of Shadows and started it as soon as I got my hands on it. History repeated itself with A Conjuring of Light. Before the clock even struck midnight on the day of its release, I was tearing through the ebook. I was nervous going in. Victoria hasn’t blessed us with that many series finales (*cough* Archive #3,The Returned, which I am very bitter about *cough). But I was blown away. And now it’s over. And my entire mind and body feel empty right now, but in the most satisfying of ways. I know these characters aren’t dead. The live on the pages of the books that decorate my shelves, pages that I can read over and over and over again (and I know I will). Yet part of me knows that I can never go back to reading this series with a fresh mind. I can’t turn the pages and experience the streets of Red London. All the words are forever tattooed onto my soul. (And tired Emi is so inspired by that sentence she had just written that she actually started to cry. God look at what this book as done to her.) The last time I finished a book series I loved so much, and was unsure if I’d ever be able to explore the world again, was almost eight years ago. I don’t know what to do with this feeling of desire and longingness.A Conjuring of Light was everything I hoped it to be. It didn’t start out with a spark like the previous books did, but instead with an inferno that managed to keep its flame the entirety of the book. I know I reread the previous two before jumping into this one, but even at the first line, I still felt welcomed back into the story like an old friend. Not to mention this book was so funny. There were multiple scenes where I felt like I should be screaming or crying, but I couldn’t express those emotions because I was laughing so hard. It takes true talent to put humor in the most inconvenient of times, but Victoria is full of talent. Kell. Let’s talk about him. If you didn’t know, he is one of my favorite fictional characters. Though his coat does give him an unfair advantage over other characters. I remember, during my first read of AGOS last year, mentioning in an update that if Kell asked me to jump off a bridge, I’d do it. That still hasn’t changed. It probably never will. Kell is one of those people I trust completely. He is so consistent and loyal and caring. I have never felt like he was going to betray me. Kell went through so much character development this entire series, yet he still didn’t change from that boy in a peculiar coat that we met on the first pages of ADSOM(view spoiler)[ My one hope for Kell was to find his family in this book. He came to the palace as a young boy, with no past and no memory. I wanted for him to know where he came from. And he did. Perhaps not in the way that I was hoping, but in the way that both he and I deserved. He found his peace as a member, as a brother, as a son of the royal family. And though a subtle message, it really showed that it isn’t your origins that define you, but the path that lives takes you on. So while I really did want to know what K.L. stood for (in my mind it’s Kyle for some reason? I know it’s not Kyle but I’ve thought this for a year and a half now and Kyle isn’t going anywhere.), I am actually glad we didn’t find out. (hide spoiler)] Lila. Lila, Lila, Lila. She never changes either. My one hope for her going into this book was for her to become a badass pirate. Yet, that was an impossible hope, considering she already was a badass pirate. Lila has always been a very stereotypical YA heroine (the one that hates pretty dresses and loves pretty weapons), but I never even cared. She was done right. Rhy. Rhy, my precious baby who will probably have sex with anything that moves. I love him so much. He is so strong, funny, and confident with his sexuality. (view spoiler)[ He also finds love in this book Bless that lord. I am so glad my baby can be happy. (hide spoiler)] Rhy is the easily the best character in this series. Holland. (view spoiler)[ Holland’s story line in this book was my favorite. His past was explored. His motives were explored. And though he died in the end, I was okay with his death. In fact, his death scene (chapter IX of part fifteen) was the most beautiful piece of writing I have ever had the opportunity to read. In fact, I read it multiple times over and over again before moving onto the final chapter. I am glad that he is at peace. (hide spoiler)] Alucard. He grew a lot on me in this book. His character definitely didn’t go in the direction I expected when we first met him in AGOS and I am glad it didn’t. His relationship with Kell was one of my favorite aspects of this entire book. Every conversation they had, I loved. (view spoiler)[ I am happy he found love with Rhy and I wish both of them nothing but the best (hide spoiler)] I’ve read a lot of books in my life. And along with that, I’ve read many conclusions. The very last part of this book, Part Fifteen, was what left me so satisfied. Victoria closed so many gates for the characters, and opened up so many others. It’s everything that I desire in a conclusion. It’s 2:41am right now. I’ve been typing this for over an hour. In the morning, when I am awake and possibly recovered from this book, I’ll edit this review into something that makes a lot more sense. Anoshe.
5505069742	1,75 ⭐Ta seria to trochę takie literackie "kotki w piwnicy". Po pierwszym - całkiem niezłym - tomie spodziewasz się więcej, a tu nagle Victoria Schwab mówi "nununu mój kochany" i zasadza ci srogiego kopulca na potylicę.Ogromny zawód. Idę ponarzekać.Narzekam tutaj: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bx6iq...
1788323968	About: A Conjuring of Light is a fantasy novel written by V. E. Schwab. It was published on 2/21/17 by Tor Books, an imprint of Macmillan, hardcover, 624 pages. The genres are fantasy, magic, and fiction. There are 3 books to this series: book 1 is called A Darker Shade of Magic, book 2 is called A Gathering of Shadows, and book 3 is called A Conjuring of Light. My Experience: I started reading A Conjuring of Light on 10/1/17 and finished it on 10/8/17 at midnight. This book is an awesome read! There were actions and adventures and there were suspense and mysteries. Lila is still reckless and dangerous. She gets to explore her mystery to the fullest potential in this book! I love learning about Holland’s past and his role. I have sympathy for him. I also like how he can mask his feelings whereas Kell shows it all on his face. I like Kell and his attempts at romance. However, Kell’s romance doesn’t seem to have as much connection as Alucard’s romance with his lover. I like Alucard in the previous book as well as in this one. He’s a cool character. I love the bickering between Alucard and Kell, the playful words between Rhy and Alucard, and the banter/flirt between Lila and Kell. They all make me smile. I love the magic in this book!This book continues directly where book 2, A Gathering of Shadows left off. Kell is struggling for his life in White London against the stronghold of Holland, the second Antari. In the meantime, Rhy’s life is in danger because Kell’s life is in danger. Holland once again is in a battle of his own, fighting to regain control of himself. Lila Bard has a new title in this book. She started out as a thief, then a pirate, and now, possibly, an Antari. From book 2, readers know what Holland brought back with him to White London. The new villain invades Red London and leave deaths along the way. Through many attempts at defeating the villain, Osaron, they will have to set out on an adventure to obtain a device that will capture him once and for all. The trip is a bit dangerous because they are venturing out to an illegal place with a prisoner along for the ride. Rhy, prince of Arnesh and Kell’s brother, definitely step up to the challenge in this book. Actually, many characters are tested for strengths and weaknesses and whether they willing to reunite for the greater good or go their separate ways to protect themselves.This book is very well written. It’s lengthy but not dull. I enjoyed their strategic discussions. I like their attempts and failures at defeating the villain. I like how the characters, no matter whether they trust each other or not, they find a way to work together. I enjoyed the challenges the characters faced. This book answers almost all of my questions from previous books. I still don’t know Lila’s history with her glass eyes and I still don’t know Kell’s past, but Kell chooses not to know whereas Lila still doesn’t know. This book also left me with questions. I thought part of the Shadow King spread his shadows into Grey London because there were requests of “let me in” to Ned Tuttle but it was left opened ended. Also I wonder of White London’s future, who is King? Shades of Magic is definitely an excellent series and I highly recommend everyone to read it!Pro: actions, adventures, magic, challenges, cover, romance, humor,Con: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: I bought this book with my own money and my opinions are honest.xoxo, Jasmine
2183623855	I think this was the best of the series! I really liked how everything came together and the ending worked - it wasn't rush, nothing unbelievable happened, there were consequences. Well done.I wonder if there is going to be another book in this series - there was something with King George that was a bit dodgy - anyone know?
6376732918	This was a rollercoaster: there were highs, there were lows, but it was never dull. A lot of people argued that, in the two previous books, the pace took a bit to get going – which I honestly like, because I want to set in, know a bit more about the character and the world, before getting into action. Of course, by the third book, we knew it all, up to the characters’ most unavailing strengths and flaws. So, the pace was racing since page one. It took up from exactly where the second book left and let’s just say it was very eventful – there were a lot of deaths, as for V.E. Schwab usual fashion. I really liked the story and how it unfolded, but, most of all, I liked the characters and their relationships and the many nuances of them both. They were all great, they all stayed true to their character and they were all remarkable. But, of course, Holland was the most remarkable. I was very disappointed by him by the end of the second book – I hope we can all agree that the villain energy just didn’t suit him. We got told his story in much more details in this book and, every time I had to stop reading to go do something else and there was a chapter of his, I just couldn’t stop, I was compelled to read what he went through, what he was saying and what he was doing – to my eyes and my personal taste, this was some sort of redemption arc for him, after letting me down in book #2. What I didn’t like was the villain not being human – he was flawed in a very human way, still he wasn’t actually human and I generally dislike villains being made just for being villains, with literally nothing else to offer or even a story to tell. Luckily, he was some kind of prop for the plot to develop and the characters to evolve, so yes, he was central to the story, but it was their story and he didn’t stole the attention away from what, to me, really mattered. I’ll end by saying that I know I’ll read again about Holland – no spoiler, I’m just delusional – and that this trilogy really caught me off guard. I started it without expecting much, I just wanted something easy to read and V.E. Schwab does easy in a very peculiar, seductive way, so I knew I would get that, one way or another. But the whole story was compelling and reading it all made me so glad I did – for me, there wasn’t ever a boring, upsetting moment, only pure joy and excitement – and I can’t wait to read more of this beautiful, beautiful world in The Fragile Threads of Power.
7699866124	4.3 STARSNot only did Victoria impress but she also HURT MY FEELINGS💔This was SIGNIFIGANTLY better than whatever book 2 was😅 This literally did not have a dull moment. I loved the action sequences, the relationships and the bickering between Alucard and Kel and Lila and Holland was soooo good!Rhy is undoubtedly my favorite character in the whole trilogy! He had such a great arc and my man went through it💔💔 Rhy and Alucard have my whole heart 💖Now was this an epic fantasy trilogy? In my opinion, that's a no. Its really fun and entertaining but there just something missing and I can't quite find the words to describe it. I really loved these characters by the end and will for sure read the spinoff series!pre-readIMPRESS ME VICTORIA 🙏
2059579827	Star Rating: —> FIVE, FIVE, FIVE, FIVE, FIVE (erm… yes, in fact, 5) Stars !!⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Just a warning that this kind of has spoilers a little? If you’re currently reading, or plan to, I kind of hint at some of the characters’ fates, so you may not want to read!Okay. So. I was absolutely in love with this whole trilogy, and never been more frustrated to go on 3 vacations within 3 weeks 😝 bc I had no time to read. Yes, you read that right. This novel makes you frustrated to be ON VACATION (well, at least ones where you don’t have time to read 😉). Now, I’ve had this dull ache in my heart/ chest ever since I read the very last words on the very last page land closed the back cover of the last of these 3 life changing reads. Partly because (and this hurts to think let alone write) ITS OVER 😭😭😭. Then, partly because I feel cheated by both Kell & Lila’s ending (!!!! Wtf! Not enough), and the slightest presence of black magic in Grey London (with the KINGGG exposed no less) can of worms being opened and then left to sit... neither of which sat with me well. I KNEW V.E. Wouldn’t leave me hangin’ like that and had more story to tell, though, because you don’t write characters so magnificently and give them a perfect love story that’s so much more than a love story without a proper wrap up. So, I KNEW IT WASNT THE END! I checked her GR profile and we get a whole new trilogy with all of the same characters. Bada boom bada bangggg! (That fact is the only thing keeping reality from dealing me a swift drop-kick to the face & knocking me straight off the edge and into crazy town rn. It’s a mix of a deep love for the books AND, more-so, my life being SUPER hectic atm lol).Needless to say... one of the finest pieces of writing I’ve ever read. What a wonderful, brilliant, incredible, Unforgettable world/ novel/ series Schwab has woven together. I am in love with every aspect. Sigh.But, oh; the inevitable sorrow that comes with endings and the painful anticipation that comes with anoshe . anoshe , Lila, Kell, Luc, Rhy, Holland, and every other character that exists in this wonderful world. No matter what their ending, I hope to see them all again in the next 3 books. anoshe.
1818589677	DON'T COME NEAR ME IM NOT OKAY I'LL NEVER BE OKAY
5644957093	Siento que, en general, esta saga no fue para mí. Definitivamente sí me gustó más que la de Villanos, pero nunca me llegó a enganchar de esa manera loca que veo en otras personas. Para mí, estos libros de Shades of Magic tienen problemas de ritmos. Es decir, lo interesante de un libro de 635 páginas no puede empezar en la 400. Eso puedo perdonarlo en el inicio de una saga, pero este era el cierre de la trilogía… Además, siento que algo que pasa algunos de los libros de V. E. Schwab es que las situaciones que viven los personajes son muy similares a unas que ya han sucedido. Además, me parece que a los villanos les falta presencia. Es decir, el villano que creó para este tercer libro me pareció absurdo. Era mucho mejor el del segundo, aunque a ese lo mataron en dos segundos cuando se enfrentaron a él. Ahora, sí hubo personajes con un arco de crecimiento interesante, pero no fueron los principales, tristemente. Además… Y estoy hablando de una manera muy vaga para no darles spoilers… Siento que Victoria les dio muchísimo protagonismo a unos personajes secundarios solo como una estrategia, mal usada, para hacer avanzar la trama. Es decir, nunca habían sido importantes, ¿y de repente son vitales para salvar al mundo? Nah. Otra cosa que nunca me terminó de convencer es el romance que se “desarrolla” entre Kell y Lilah porque, si me lo preguntan, tienen más química dos tablas de madera que ellos. Perdón. La relación de otros personajes (sin nombres… spoilers) sí que me pareció mucho más interesante y me hizo falta que les diera más páginas. En fin… Sé que ahora saldrá otro libro más en este universo, pero creo que no lo voy a leer.
3652371777	Re-read May 2023:My Shades of Magic reread has come to an end and I am SO happy I did this. I don't reread often enough (so many new books to read, it's hard to allow myself the time to revisit old favorites) but this was just a really fantastic time. It reminded me why I love these books so much and why Schwab has since become my favorite author. I'm so excited to come back to this world in Threads of Power.As with the others, I rated this 5 stars long before I was rating/reviewing things and it's too embedded in my soul to be objective about it now so the 5 will stay on goodreads.
3576151690	“Love and loss are like a ship and sea. They rise together. The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the ink way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be.”This book was so good! The pacing in the beginning was slow, but once it picked up I became immersed in this dark and fantastic world of magic. The plot was interesting and engaging, but it dragged a bit in the middle. The writing was very descriptive and immersive, I felt like I was living in this world with the characters and feeling every emotion that they felt. The world building was excellent, I loved that the author continued to build on the world and explain more about the history as well as the blood magic that makes the world unique. The author did an excellent job crafting the characters and explaining how the past played a big part in making the characters who they are in the present. I enjoyed learning more about Holland and I appreciated that the author explained his past in great detail, it provided a unique perspective. I love Lila, she is fierce, brave, stubborn, strong and she will do whatever it takes to protect the people she loves. Lila's character continues to developed and I enjoyed seeing her caring side as well as her fierce side. I really liked Kell, he continues to protect the people he cares about and he is also a very brave character. Alucard and Rhy were great characters as well, I enjoyed learning about their thoughts and feelings throughout the book. Alucard and Rhy had great interactions and their romance was great. I liked Kell and Lila's relationship, but I wished there was more focus on how their relationship developed. The tension was great, but the chemistry was lacking. The ending was underwhelming, the climax was great but the ending didn't meet my expectations. I'm glad that the ending was resolved, although one aspect of it was sad. The author focused on several themes and messages that are important including love, loss, family, the cost of power and finding bravery within yourself. Overall I really enjoyed this series and the characters were very well crafted.
2572458598	*4.5*This book was probably my favorite in the series. The stakes are high, the characters are more daring, and everything is able to wrap up the way I’d hoped. That being said, it’s not a perfect five star. I feel like the fight scenes are always resolved too quickly in this trilogy and leave me wanting more. I also am still not a fan of the romance in this book, i just think that it wasn’t entirely realistic or necessary. Other than that, this book has everything I love and I’m truly a sucker for this world!!
3000000779	I want to cry and I don't know why!! It was such an amazing series, I'll miss everything about it!! 😭💘
1590016065	HOW DO I CONTINUE TO LIVE MY LIFE KNOWING THAT THIS SERIES HAS ENDED? HOW CAN I MOVE ON FROM THIS?? *sobs***WARNING: MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS FOR A DARKER SHADE OF MAGIC AND A GATHERING OF SHADOWS**Buddy-read with: Nina {ᴡᴏʀᴅs ᴀɴᴅ ᴡᴀᴛᴇʀ} “Life isn't made of choices, it's made of trades. Some are good, some are bad, but they all have a cost.” V.E. Schwab’s A Conjuring of Light is the unforgettable ending that will hit you like the furious waves of the sea and leave you a wreck in the waters.Okay, maybe that was a bit exaggerated but that’s how I would define what it felt like! It was difficult to say farewell to these characters. Although this was a buddy-read, I kept putting this book off when I was nearing the end, reading at least a chapter a day just so I could prolong my stay in their world, that I finished days after Nina did. This finale was that great for me.The author’s writing is undoubtedly gorgeous. I think I’m falling for her words. I adore how she narrated every detail in a world view. It made me feel as if I was walking through the Londons as well or sailing through the Arnesian sea, feeling the breeze and the fear, the stones underneath my feet. “And strategy is just a fancy word for a special kind of common sense, the ability to see options, to make them where there were none. It’s not about knowing the rules. It’s about knowing how to break them.” Set on a race to end the rising power from the ruins of Black London, A Conjuring of Light was a tale of sacrifice and loss. It broke my heart again and again. Every corner of the story was a knife against a heart.The pacing was perfect. I didn’t have a single moment of boredom. Every turn taken by these people was utterly lethal, and I was amazed afraid and thrilled by the possibility of any of them barely surviving. “Caring was a thing with claws. It sank them in, and didn’t let go. Caring hurt more than a knife to the leg, more than a few broken ribs, more than anything that bled or broke and healed again. Caring didn’t break you clean. It was a bone that didn’t set, a cut that wouldn’t close.” It’s impossible not to fall in love with these characters especially when you already got to disentangle their secrets, desires, pain, selfishness, and selflessness. Kell was willing to save Red London and his brother Rhy, no matter what the cost, with the aid of Lila who had once again found herself in a different kind of danger. Everyone had something they could lose, even Alucard who just returned to reclaim his place in the hearts of the ones he dearly cared for. Meanwhile, Holland continued to exhaust himself, risking anything to keep White London as it was now.Despite being a bloodbath, this book was also unequivocally swoon-worthy and steamy! If you want a read with a good measure of romance, then this is a must-have! I’ve waited for more of this and I am pleased of how the author balanced out the darkness of this adventure with a little bit of warmth in an endless night.I was astonished and touched by how Schwab chose to conclude the journey for each one of them, especially for Kell. I admit I wanted more for him, but I am grateful for the choices he’d made for himself. As for Rhy and for Holland, I was a little bit sad for them. Their situations were desolate no matter how I look at each of them. If I could hug them, particularly Holland, I would!I am impressed and this has become my new favorite series and I certainly would reread this very soon. It’s a world I wished never ended, but it’s time to say goodbye...for now.
2094739574	Real rating is 4.5“The more we love, the more we have to lose. But the only way to avoid loss is to avoid love. And what a sad world that would be” Finishing this book left me hollow. I actually CRIED at the end. This is a big deal to me because most series endings either make me happy, angry or indifferent but not teary.“Rhy raised his hand, and so did Kell, a single unspoken word between them.Anoshe” 😩This book had the most intense introduction ever. The first 10% of the book was filled with so much action and suspense that it seemed like I was reading the end of a book not the beginning. Things slowed down a bit at the middle as the main plot of finding a way to destroy a great evil unfolded. Then toward the end, Schwab turned into Oprah but instead of giving out free cars, she gave out deaths. The death toll went from 0 to 100 real quick. Characters Kell: My love, my sunshine. I just want to run my fingers through his red hair but I digress. He’s so sweet but will kill anyone who hurts the people he loves especially Rhy“Even after all they’d seen and done. Kell still had faith in people” Rhy: He’s just a cinnamon roll and did not deserve all the bad things that happened to him (view spoiler)[ really Schwab? Did he really have to die twice and see both of his parents get killed (hide spoiler)]. The fact that all the bad things that happened to him did not make him any less kind made me love him more.“I am Rhy Maresh… And I am unbreakable” Lila: I didn’t really like Lila in the first two books but she grew on me in this. I liked her character development especially how she finally let people in and stopped herself from running away and being alone.Holland: Schwab low-key hates holland. No one deserved to suffer as much as he did. His backstory was just too depressing. I just want to give him a hug 😢 #Hollanddeservesbetter2k17Alucard: Forever the charming pirate. His backstory was sad too (view spoiler)[ then his sister, the only family member he actually cares about dies (hide spoiler)]. Things I liked: Kell and Rhy’s bond: Parabatai bond got nothing on this! I just adore their relationship so muchKell and Alucard’s bickering: Their fights was so funnyAlucard and Lila’s friendship: Theres nothing I enjoy more than a totally platonic friendship between a boy and a girl. Hastra: He is just so pure and innocent and a ray of sunshine (view spoiler)[ WHO DID NOT DESERVE TO DIE. I cried so hard (hide spoiler)]What I did not like:- Too many POVs- Some unanswered mysteries like Kell’s past.- we got POVs from people in Grey London but the city did not play any role in this book (except the really minor one at the end)- The betrayal plot seemed so random and felt like it was just used to kill off peopleOverall I really enjoyed this book. It ended in a bittersweet way which I think makes a better impact than a really happy ending. I love how the last chapter is called “Anoshe” which means 'until another day' ❤️
2570716550	1) A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★2) A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★ “Scars are not shameful, not unless you let them be. If you do not wear them, they will wear you.” This book isn’t a story, it’s an adventure. It’s not often that I feel so absorbed by a world and its characters as I have with those in this trilogy. Schwab must’ve poured her very soul into these pages, because I can feel the soft pulse of the story trying to leap out every so often. I love everything about this trilogy and truly can’t believe I waited so long before reading it. At last, I understand the immense praise and hype its received. You can bet your hat that I’ll be reading anything and everything by the lovely Mrs. Schwab now. From the fleshed-out relationships to the tangible world and complex characters, this trilogy has it all, and I can’t implore you enough to hop on this emotional rollercoaster.It’s not uncommon for me to admire one or two characters from a series, but I downright fell in love with every member of the cast. Kell is such a sweet hero, and I love his self-sacrificial nature. His ceaseless desire to protect the few he cares for is heartbreaking, and customarily involves him injuring himself one way or another. The bond he shares with his brother, Rhy – both in the literal and metaphorical sense – is a remarkable connection that I loved witnessing stretch and retract, break and reform, and ultimately hold true. Love doesn’t need to always be expressed in a romantic sense to remain strong. Sometimes the most powerful feelings we possess are those which are directed towards our family. After all, there are not many aside from your family who can know and understand your genuine self.The romance between Kell and Lila is wonderfully depicted. What I appreciate most about this relationship is how they aren’t afraid or ashamed to share their worries and (occasionally) selfish intentions with one another. I also love the banter. Allow me to repeat … the banter! My oh my, is this wordplay beautiful. With two such stubborn, sharp-tongued individuals, this brilliant dialogue was sure to enfold. It’s an absolute blessing that they are with one another for a great deal of this novel, because I tremendously missed how the paltry amount of interactions they had in the second novel prevented these exchanges. I also enjoyed Kell’s friendship – if one were kind enough to deem it that – with Alucard. They share very diverse ideals on life and where each other’s place should be in it, and are quite frankly, incompatible in every way. This is surprisingly a huge breath of fresh air, since I’ve grown weary of how frequently characters mend their differences purely for the sake of progressing the plot. Kell and Alucard certainly achieve a state of mutual respect and tolerance, but likely won’t ever see eye-to-eye on most matters.A phenomenal redemption arc in every regard. Holland is one of the most beautifully complex, morally grey characters I have ever had the tremendous pleasure to read about. Through him, Schwab aptly teeters the line between hero and villain, crafting a character that is highly intricate with too many layers to count. The many faces of Holland pulled my heart strings and had me rooting for him all the way. I found the gradual unveiling of his past to be quite invigorating and love how it shed light on how particular circumstances played out and shaped who he became. I also admire how Schwab bestowed Kell and Rhy’s parents with prominent roles in the story. Although I wish their relationships with Kell could’ve been explored with more depth, the character developments of the King and Queen are still handled fairly well. Reading from their point-of-views is an absolute treat, and I devoured the unique insight it provided.The Shade of Magic trilogy is a series that I’m sure will resonate with me for years. It’s a pristine example of why I love fantasy and character-driven stories. The development of this cast is unparalleled and beyond fascinating. Every relationship between the characters is brilliantly elaborate and special. An intricate magic system, in addition to compelling politics between kingdoms, forms the foundation for a wondrous world, so tangible you can feel it. Thank you, Victoria Schwab for creating a series that is essentially everything I ever hoped and dreamed for in a Young Adult Fantasy.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Bloglovin
1920078136	First of all, a truly beautiful conclusion to Shades of Magic trilogy.Before I start, be aware that this review contains lots of gifs, as they are the best for expressing overwhelming emotions...SO MANY FEELINGS! This book, undoubtedly, I enjoyed the most in this trilogy!It was different than the other two, it was more mesmerising, there was more going on, and it was much more intense! It was more like Supernatural meets Pirates of the Caribbean! The writing got me curious instantly, so many new places were described, so many beautiful and imaginative descriptions of the magic around. ACOL is written in many intriguing POVs, unlike the other two, which only focused on couple of people, the third book tackles the past and present thoughts, which I really enjoyed as we finally got to know more about the minor characters, and I really needed this! That's what made me give this book more stars than the other two.If I'm being honest I've made so many notes for this book, but mostly it's just one word all over the pages: HOLLAND! ... for obvious reasons...If you read it then you surely know what I'm talking about...(view spoiler)[PRECIOUS HOLLAND! I'd protect him with my life. "No one suffers as beautifully as you do."When we got the chapters on his past I couldn't stop sobbing, so many people he cared about had failed him. He's losing he cares about or they turn out to be his enemies! Just by thinking of him I'm sobbing again! And then that ending... THE FEELS!! (hide spoiler)]It was just heartbreaking and beautiful...Also, can we talk about Lila???“My name is Lila Bard,” she answered, drawing her favorite knife, “and I don’t give a damn.”She's a female version of Jack Sparrow just much more badass! I absolutely love her!(view spoiler)[with all that Antari magic and fake black eye, damn girl!! (hide spoiler)]And Kell, the magic boy who always frowns.(view spoiler)[I couldn't handle my emotions at the end, he said the same words to Rhy as Lila did to him once! and that ending scene, when they finally are together and free, and Lila is a captain of The Night Spire! YAAS! (hide spoiler)]Loved the humour in this one as well! (view spoiler)[ Kell and Alucard's conversations were gold! (hide spoiler)]I have to admit, sadly, some parts were a bit too dramatic, unnecessary even. The beginning was just boring to me(view spoiler)[ all that Rhy "I need to save my people" nonsense, he was just making things worse! Don't get me wrong, I love his character, he cares about his kingdom, but at the beginning of this book he was just getting on my nerves so much! They had enough troubles already and then there he was, prince Rhy causing more troubles than needed (hide spoiler)] Besides that, I loved absolutely everything!Finally, the plot twists in this books were bloody brilliant!!!Schwab really plays on emotions in this one, when you thought all is good, all is safe...then BOOM! you're on an edge filled with anxiety! (view spoiler)[ When I was starting growing on Jasta, there she was attacking them as a member of The Sea Serpents! Just when I started to enjoy Hastra's character, his life was finally taking the route he wanted, BOOM! there he was, saving the black eyed prince and killing himself in the process. The fight between the shadow king and the Antaris, that tiny moment when I though the king got to Kell, then BOOM! Here comes Holland! Cora and Col! King Maxim and Queen Emira! *sobbing*...Damn you Schwab! (hide spoiler)] I was immersed, I couldn't put the book down even for a second. Not until I reached the final page.That's it for now, I need to calm myself down, I'm just so happy how everything has turned out!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2992887742	I think I enjoyed this series more with each book that I read, while also falling more in love with the characters and their relationships. Overall I enjoyed it and was satisfied with the ending However it felt like a long read and It took take me while to finish so at times it felt a little bit of a chore, but only a little haha.
1724663165	Absolutely loved this entire series and the third and final installment did nothing but impress me beyond measure.
2146968001	Actual rating: 4.75 „In myths, the hero survives. The evil is vanquished.The world is set right.” Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Dark magic is filling red London.Kell, Lila, Alucard and the others try to save the city, the world and themselves. This was a whole lot of action with bits of romance, friendship and family in it. Holland took a major part in this book and I loved it ♥️Still I need to say that it was a little bit slow and so, so long. Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I know this is no excuse, but Holland had no one who loved him, protected him. He was alone all the time. And when he wasn’t alone betrayal ruled his world. I kind of understand him. He gave all the love he had to his dreams to save his world and be a good king in a healthy world. He had a horrible childhood, a horrible life and I understand why he did what he did. He is and will always be my favorite character in this series, even if he is the villain. Even if he isn’t good.Rhy is the most honorable and most precious king, friend, son and brother someone can have. ♥️Lila is a badass (as always) And Kell and Alucard together are so hilarious. 😅 Like, they hate each other but they love Rhy. I guess when you’re sometimes too much alike you can’t stand each other :D Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️The relationship between Kell and Rhy is just so amazing. Just look at this: „You wanted him to kill for me, die for me, protect me at all costs. Well, mother, you got your wish. You simply failed to realize that that kind office, that bone, it goes both ways. I would kill for him, and I would die for him. And I will protect him however I’m able.“ And of course Lila and Kell ♥️„Kell swept Lila up into his arms, amazed at her lightness. She took up so much space in the world - in his world - it was hard to imagine her being so slight. In his mind she was made of stone.“ And Alucard and Rhy are pure sugar ♥️Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Victoria Schwab writes in a beautiful, fluent and perfect kind of way. She’s one of my favorite authors in writing, world building and in creating characters👏🏻
2212251535	As always my reviews will contain spoilers so stop reading here if that bugs you.As a trilogy, it felt more like book one introduced us to the world with a quest that made the big bad guy possible and then books 2 and 3 were just one massive text that was split in two out of courtesy to the reader. Osaron was a fine big bad, he had a believable motivation, a clear weakness, which was still difficult to target, and you could really get the sense that he could break the world. He was treated with the respect a villain capable of ending the world should have. The interparty rivalries was where the personalities of characters came out and kept the human element of the story intact and each goal in the plot had its own minor conflicts for the characters to overcome so it wasn't just a clean arc but a volatile one. I appreciated hearing more of Holland's backstory, he really was a tragic figure and probably the one I enjoyed hearing about the most, however all the characters had an interesting backstory. While some revealed more of themselves to the readers than others each was clearly the protagonist in their own story and could have a book written about them.
1879137399	5 stars!!❤OMG. OMG.I hate this book..I hate this book because I love it so much :( ..❤This book ruined my feelings..I think its safe to say that this book is one of the best book I have EVER read❤..I still cant believe this is the end though, I need more..I LOVE HOLLAND :'( !!I LOVE THIS BOOK..It was perfect, definitely worth the wait❤..ANOSHE❤
