1923080256	I'd like to propose a contender for the worst feeling in the world: going into a book with 100% certainty you’ll like it, and then that confidence slowlyyyyy - almost imperceptibly - fading into hatred. Especially when the average rating of said book is a four-point-f*cking-three-five.https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...But I can’t not hate this book. So much of this is nightmare scenario after nightmare scenario wrapped into one misleading synopsis. I was, quite frankly, SHOCKED by how quickly universally adored author V.E. Schwab introduced the not-like-other-girls trope, which you all know I abhor. At least buy a girl dinner first, Victoria. I'll set the scene: Liiiiilaaaaa (read that in a sarcastically loving voice, please) is at a market. Literally looking at knives because she has no personality traits or sense of fun. Anyway, another stereotype on two legs the captain of her ship says, for no goddamn reason except, I presume, his own terribleness: “Most girls covet dresses.” Bad enough, right? Already enough to make me cringe hard and dock at least a star or so? IT GETS WORSE. Darling Lila’s response: “I am not most girls.” It literally cannot get any more blatant. I was so disgusted I read the scene aloud to my sister, and she shuddered.In fact, it’s kind of...strange how sexist this book is. The great thing about YA books is that a lot of them are written by feminists, but the subliminal messages here made my skin crawl. There’s not just the not-like-other-girls stuff (or, as I call it, Sexism Lite: So Quirky Ladies Who Hate Other Women Can Still Claim to be Feminist). Every. Single. Female character is judged for her appearance. Strong women are stripped of their gender identity - a couple of times, characters question whether muscular women are truly women at all. Which, like, f*ck you forever. Are you kidding me? And don’t forget the princess (from Vesk?). Her only character trait is boy-crazy. Instead of being a powerful female leader, she follows Kell around like a lovesick puppy...exactly, we are told, what she did to Rhy a couple years before. And don't forget the disapproving tone of the text when she's with any man. Subliminal slut shaming - cool! Oooh, and “She looked like the kind of girl who would point to something — or someone — and say, ‘I want one of those.’” Wow! Please tell me more about how there are kinds of girls.More fun stuff: I literally hate all of these characters. How often does that happen?! Like, don’t get me wrong, I am completely just a heartless vessel designed to carry as much bitterness and anger as possible, but usually I’m at least neutral toward somebody. Not here. We follow four-ish main characters: Alucard, Rhy, Kell and Lila. (Putting Lila last because, if you couldn’t already tell by the fury leaking through this, she is the crown jewel in my treasure trove of loathing.)The fun thing about this book is we get two - yes, two! - characters fighting for dominance over the same piece of sh*t stereotype! Yeah, Schwab had so much success with one character in that dumbass role that she went two for two in this one. I’m talking about Rhy and Alucard, and I’m talking about the YA male character archetype that I CANNOT ESCAPE. The roguish, flirty, handsome societal elite, who’s just soooooo tired of his hard-knock life of wealth and luxury and because of it can’t even stand to live up to expectations or within social bounds. Also, we’re always supposed to find these types funny, and I have never cracked a smile at one of these dumbos.I feel like I can’t goddamn escape these goons of late. They’re the Will Herondales, the what’s-his-name from Heartless (the jester guy who wore eyeliner), Adrian from Bloodlines (will I ever finish that series?), one or more of the 8000 guys from Throne of Glass (literally can’t remember). Sorry I spaced on some of the names, but there’s an epidemic of these bozos and they’re SO unmemorable. But to have TWO of the same stereotype?! In the same book?! Extraordinary. I’ve never seen anything like it (and pray I never will again).Now...Kell. There is no way on God’s great green Earth I can fill a paragraph talking about Kell. He is the most boring character to ever boring up his way through a trilogy. Does the boy have any traits? Does he have a sense of humor? Fun, maybe? No? He’s just going to grumble around for 500 pages and be in love with Lila for no reason? Okay.And...here we go. The moment I’ve been waiting for since approximately page 17 of this book. Talking about why LILA SUCKS UP A STORM. The gal’s a prime example of a really annoying factor of bad character-writing: telling and not showing. How many times are we TOLD, “Lila is smart. Lila is a quick study. Lila was born with the magical talent of the Chosen One, but maybe if we don’t use that term then you won’t notice and write about it in your reviews. Lila is brave. Lila is strong. Lila looks for trouble.” Now, compare that to how often it’s actually proven. Rarely, if ever. It’s annoying and boring and makes me want to sign V.E. Schwab up for an intro to creative writing class.But that’s not where my problems end with ol’ Lila. No, it takes a bit more than that to end up on my most-hated characters list. Lila’s an annoying, bossy brat with a death wish, an inferiority complex, and the impenetrable belief that she knows better than everyone else. She knows better than her captain: when she is so insubordinate that Alucard has to remind her “I am your captain! You are my crew,” she thinks, “The barb struck with unexpected force.” NOT A BARB, LILA. YOU ARE NOT IN CHARGE. YOU ARE A PETTY THIEF ABOARD A SHIP. GET OVER YOURSELF!She does the same to the head-magicky-guy (I kind of never paid attention to the terms in this book). At one point in the last book, I guess, he told her he thought she had magic within her. Lila latches onto that and uses it as her justification for making a metric sh*t ton of bad decisions that could have extraordinarily negative impacts on her, her loved ones, and the entire goddamn world(s). When Chief Inspector Magic tries to prevent her from making one of these many dumb choices, she responds, "You told me that I had magic in me. Now you don't think I have what it takes?" Um, you’re untrained and a full-on dumbass and you want this guy who actually knows his stuff to fan your already-enormous ego and tell you you can win a huge magic tournament?And she does it again, to Kell, who knows more about her and more about the kind of magic she wants to do than ANYONE. And she’s just a total bitch to him and he’s all, “yeah ok” and kisses her stupid face. Ugh. I’m getting so angry AND putting off math homework that’s due in 37 minutes. It’s time to stop talking about Lila and try to wrap this shindig up.So much of this book is just...cliche to me. That moment when Lila is talking to the man at the mirror stall and he calls her Lila and she goes, all quasi-spook-ily, It wasn't until after I left that I realized I had never told him my name.................... or whatever? Made me GAG. And it wasn't even for anything! That guy never comes back. We never get more info, really, on the mirrors or on the shopkeeper or any of that. It's just a dumb cliche being used for a dumb cliched manner of foreshadowing. Like, omg, does she want the dark power slash thing she is entirely uneducated about?! Even though she shouldn't?? Even though the big strong experienced man warns her not to do whatever said thing is? Oh my god! I have never read anything like that before! Except, like, you know...The Winner's Kiss, Divergent, Siege and Storm, Throne of Glass, The 5th Wave, Passenger, Rebel Belle, Alice. I could definitely go on. Because that is one of my least favorite tropes that also manages to be super boring in every instance it is used. Seriously, shall I ever cease to be astounded by the untouched realms of young adult fantasy this book doth discover?And after all that, it’s not even fun. I wanted to read about a magic tournament, but it took 350 pages to get there and only lasted about 100 (generously). The rest of the book is a carbon copy of the events of the last book. I don’t want to spoil anything, but the grand cliffhanger of the book happens in the exact same way at the exact same event as the last book. It is, in other words, a snoozefest.Bottom line: clichéd, sexist, teeming with some of the worst characters I’ve ever read, misleading, repetitive, occasionally illogical, and boring. Does that sum it up? Bleh.
1845324375	It’s unbelievable how I started this book with the lowest possible expectation and it still managed to disappoint me. I know this is a beloved book in the YA community, you might wanna stay away from reading this review if you’re easily offended. Seriously stay away.I think it’s better for me to start off with the parts I like about the book first, there’s only a few anyway. First, Holland, every single appearance from him made the plot and the book so much better, despite his appearance being rarer than the amount of Hinduism in my city. Second, the last 50 pages of the book were actually quite good, with some flaws but at least it’s captivating. Finally, VE Schwab's prose remained great to read as always. Holland is literally the only character that pushed me into finishing this trilogy cause I need to know more about him and his fate.Now, for all the shit, A Gathering of Shadows, where do I even begin with the problem in this one? Let’s start with an easy one first. This book is majorly afflicted with the infamous 2nd book syndrome, the first 350 pages are painful to read, pretty much a pointless filler. A cow’s opinion is better than these 350 pages and for god sake a cow’s dialogue is literally only “moo” “moo” “moo”, see how pointless that sounds? Well, that’s how the first 350 pages are. It’s about preparing for a magical arena tournament, which ended up being a huge copycat of Avatar: The Legend of Korra.The battles in the arena itself are okay at best which made reading the 350 pages of nothing completely a worthless experience. Don't get me wrong, I love slow paced books, most adult fantasy books I read are slow paced and trust me, the books I love used these pages carefully. Building character developments, slowly building relationship, explain more on the world-building aspect etc. Not spending time brooding, doing insta-love, random making out and obsessing over Delilah fucking Bard, which I’ll get into in a moment.I’m also very disappointed with how much time the characters spent on Red London, seriously there are 4 London, make use of them please. What’s the point of creating 4 London if the story is going to take place almost all the time in Red London?? What are you doing? Trying to make us see the color of apple in London? Every time the story shifted to White London (scarcely) it’s actually so much better. However, the most significant problem I had with the book lies in one and one factor only. The damn characters, especially Lila fucking Bard or Lila fucking bad or Lila fucking Bald, whatever her special damned kind is.Kell and Rhy spent all their time here fighting and whining over being saved? “WAHHH WAHHHHH YOU SAVED MEEEEE LET ME DIEEEEE BUT I WANNA LIVE AND I’M SAD WAHHH WAHHH YOU PISSED ME OFF”Dude….. kill yourself… bite your tongue, chop your head off, climb the Big Ben like you belong in the Assassin Creed and jump yourself to death, I don’t care just… stop whining over being saved. Seriously I can’t stress this enough, other than Holland I seriously just want all these characters to die. BUT none of them can compare to the ultimate Mary Sue, Delilah fucking bard, the Wonder Woman, the alien, the predator, whatever she is cause she doesn’t know too.I was led to believe the main character of this series is Kell, I was wrong. It was Lila, the narrative treated the reader as if we’re brain damaged or have short term memory. It will remind us countless times during everyone’s POV that Lila is unlike most girls. I liked her in the first book and I can’t believe how much I hated her in this installment. She’s an ultimate Mary Sue, apparently 4 months is enough to become a fluent speaker in a new language, and become a magician, from a thief. In the first book she was just a thief. In this one she’s a female Voldemort but wait… I shouldn’t call her a female because she’s one of a damned kind.Here's most dialogues around Lila in the book, featuring meMe: Hi Lila “I am one of a damned kind” Me: urmm okay? So how are yo-- “I am not most girls.” Me: …. “I am not most girls.” Me: Okay I get it you’re not most girl, you just said— “I am one of a damned kind” Me: Okay you fucking E.T I get-- “I am not most girls.” Me: Hey- “I am not most girls.” Kell walking towards me with his endless angst and frown but then, seems like a random thought appeared in his head and he said: “Lila is unlike most girls.” Me: STTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA- “I am not most girls.” Me: HHHHHHHHHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP!!! “I am one of a damned kind” Drew Barrymore from the movie ‘50 First Dates’ would’ve remember Delilah fucking Bard for the endless repetition in the narrative to always remind the reader that she’s one of a kind, badass, can do shit, put Lila in a Star Wars and she’ll be the ultimate Jedi oh my lord. “She bent most of the rules. She broke the rest.” Yeah, including my brain for reading your stupidity.Here’s one of the few trying so hard to be badass but idiotic dialogue. “Everyone’s immortal until they’re not.” No shit. What’s next? Everyone’s dead when they’re killed? Everyone’s alive when they have a heartbeat? You can clap if you have hands?This is a book that should’ve been condensed by at least 300 pages and it would’ve been so much better. There’s way too many useless information that wouldn’t affect anything in the main story. Plus the ending left us in a cliffhanger just when the story FINALLY about to get interesting and now I have to continue because my momma didn’t raise a quitter and I’m not about to quit now. I’ve prepared some alcohol for my next read, I hope it could be better but my expectation for the last book is minus zero.If you enjoy the book, I'm truly happy for you. I wish I could but I can't.. not for this one. Also, if you’re wondering why I’m reading this series, it’s because VE Schwab tricked me completely into thinking that this will be an adult oriented book like her ‘Vicious’ (which I love) and IT’S NOT! If I knew what I’m getting into, I wouldn't had spend any money I worked hard for into this trilogy.You can find the rest of my Adult Epic/High Fantasy & Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
1272774225	Delilah Bard had a way of finding trouble. I just love everything about this world. Read it in a single day and I cannot wait for the next book.I think I'm a bit of an unintentionally picky reader when it comes to fantasy. A lot of YA fantasy is heavy on the romance and low on the substance, which irks me, but I don't take much pleasure in overlong, dense, wordy adult fantasy series either. I want exciting world-building, strong characters and good pacing that doesn't sacrifice depth. And I feel like Schwab totally gets that.The writing style is detailed and evocative - you can picture this world so easily, even though it is highly sensational, and you can feel the magic running through it. Schwab crafts scenes with both description and tension, firmly cementing her as one of my favourite fantasy authors.It is a world for those who admire imagination. Alternate Londons, some with magic and some without, magic wielders, evil rulers, pirates and - in this installment - a magical tournament called the Essen Tasch. The author uses this tournament to draw the characters together, to create action and excitement, whilst behind it all there looms a dark threat.With rich, evocative storytelling, an original, fantastically-conceived fantasy world, and colourful, weird characters, it's hard to complain. The book buzzes with magical secrets and new discoveries; like an adult version of Narnia, it is a way of walking through the wardrobe and facing all the wonderful and horrifying possibilities.I enjoyed Kell's new experiences, as he comes to term with the lasting effects of what happened in the last book. I enjoyed all the backstabbing, cross-dressing and thievery. But, most of all, I just freaking love Lila. She is the baddest badass of them all and she doesn't give a shit.A Gathering of Shadows goes deeper, drawing us further into this world and developing all the characters. It ends with a promise of more horror and action in the next book. I can't wait. After all, you can kill people, but you cannot kill magic.Not truly. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store
2395542368	She bent most of the rules. She broke the rest. There are four Londons, layered on top of each other, each existing without knowing of the other.Black London - wild, untamed magic. All-consuming madness.White London - crippled, desperate, hungry magic. Slowly dying.Red London - vibrant, thriving, full of magicGrey London - the "boring" London, no magic, no spark, no nothing.Each world is sealed though a special being(an Antari (ultra-rare, ultra-powerful magician) can travel between (like Kell, from Red London).Years ago, Black London fell to the mad magic and was completely sealed - also sealing the fate of all those who lived there.Four months ago, after a series of circumstances, a black stone from Black London made its way to Red London, infecting and spreading the corrosive magic. It was thrown back into Black London, along with Holland (the Antari from White London).Delilah Bard, a Grey Londoner, managed to finagle her way into Red London, help save the day and worm her way into Kell's heart. “Oh yes, your relationship with Miss Bard is positively ordinary.""Be quiet.""Crossing worlds, killing royals, saving cities. The marks of every good courtship.” But, instead of settling down, Lila Bard decided to sail off and become a pirate (yes, really). “I know where you sleep, Bard." She smirked. "Then you know I sleep with knives.” Now that Kell has been expressly forbidden from any unnecessary travel between Londons and Lilah is who-knows-where - for the first time, Red London looks grey to him.Rhy, Kell's brother-in-name and prince of the land, decides to take over the Element Games (international magic competition) and smuggle Kell into it to help him blow off steam. Everyone thinks I have a death wish, you know? But I don't want to die - dying is easy. No, I want to live, but getting close to death is the only way to feel alive. But what once began as a fun, innocuous romp is quickly twisting out of their control. Soon, the brothers learn that Black magic never dies... Everyone’s immortal until they’re not. This book was so much fun!It truly felt more like a companion book than an actual continuation of the series and I did not mind a bit. (Companion - because of the random tournament taking up a majority of the page space.)It was so much fun to read about the weird, whimsical world of Red London - the different countries and cultures were vibrant and extremely well-done.I found myself not enjoying Delilah's character as much as I did in round one. Book one she was bada** and one tough cookie...but it felt like this round she just took everything over.It felt like the book was more focused on fulfilling Lilah's every whim rather than a realistic progression of the plot and development of the characters.Also, anyone else starting to get annoyed with the Holland thing? The rest of the characters have almost a ridiculously over-the-top hatred of him.It's like, they know Holland's every move was commanded by the White London's rulers and he was tortured continuously for years...and yet they're all like, "mmm...Holland, you are a garbage human."Doesn't make sense to me.All in all, I did enjoy this book and I am excited for round III!YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
7308750556	I love everything about these characters and this series
3942117746	This is one of the most ridiculous books I've ever read. A Gathering of Shadows picks up where ADSOM left off. Lila is learning how to be a pirate and Kell is being angsty. Lila is still telling herself how speshul she is, and Kell is still frowning. Does he ever stop frowning? No. A tournament called the Essen Tasch, or Element Games, is due to start soon. Lila and Kell decide that they want to participate, so they pretend to be other contestants so they can infiltrate the tournament. Why though?Seriously. Why? What's the point of this book? The plot literally doesn't even begin until 65%. You may be wondering what happened before then. I don't even know. There were some really short magic lessons. Rhy continued to be an idiot. Over half of this book was pointless. One could even argue that there was no purpose to the magic tournament. The main conflict of this book was the same as it was in the last book. The villain resurrected. Wow. How creative. I'm so dazzled. In the end, they were in the exact same place they were at the beginning of the book. There was no net progress. No character development, no plot development. In fact, there was character anti-development. Lila was annoying in the first book, but in this book, she was even worse. She would repeat "I am one of a kind" to herself every time she had a little inner monologue. It was the stupidest thing ever. She was so not like other girls that I almost choked on my cereal. "My witty banter is one of a kind.""I've always been unique." In this installment, Lila learns magic. She excels at it, despite having little-to-no training. Alucard, the captain of her ship, gives her a few lessons and bam, she's a master. Most magicians have to learn the intricacies of the magic system, but Lila is not like other magicians. All she has to do is say a speshul poem and there's the magic. She can use all the types of magic because she is One of A Kind. Everything comes to her so quickly, it's ridiculous. She doesn't have to work for anything. She's all like, "I am an accomplished thief who lives on my wits" when she has no wits. Where are her brains? They don't exist. "I am one of a damned kind.""What can I say, I've always been contrary." She decides to join the Essen Tasch because she wants to have fun. She's been taking lessons for maybe a month, and she thinks she can go against these highly skilled magicians who have been training their entire lives. Every time she almost loses, she finds another speshul power she can use to defeat her opponents. It was so bad I laughed out loud a couple of times from the sheer cringe. "What am I? One of a kind." Lila has an inflated sense of self-importance. She thinks she's all that. We're told exactly what we should like about her. She's one of a kind. She's smart. She's clever. She's witty. She's strong. She's powerful. We get it. It's never shown, it's just said straight to our faces via her inner monologue. People keep warning Lila that what she's doing is stupid, but of course she's so smart and clever that she doesn't listen. "I am not most girls." Lila has basically no power. She's an elementary student in magic. And yet she's competing with these champions. Who thought this was a good idea? Lila couldn't even be bothered to ask simple questions about the Games before she joined, like how they kept score. Delilah Bard. One of a kind. Kell is the worst. He has literally no personality at all. He frowns. That's it. That's his personality. It's repeated over and over again. "Oh, Kell is frowning again." "Kell, stop frowning." "Kell furrowed his brow in a deep frown." *leaves* He has the personality of a plastic spoon. He has no sense of humor, no ambition, no dreams, no motivation. He's a blank slate. He had great potential in the first book, but now his entire life revolves around LiLa BaRd. I don't even know what else to say about him because he's so boring. Rhy is the same stereotype I've seen over and over again. The moody, ungrateful, WiTtY prince who doesn't want to have responsibility and just wants to party. How funny. How creative. *yawns* He's so done with being rich and powerful and whatnot. How boring, am I right? He wants to be a RoGuE. I hate this cliche. I hate it so much. Rhy is so ungrateful for being alive. Kell literally SAVED HIS WORTHLESS LIFE, and he basically blamed him for it. Boo hoo. Cry cry. How sad that you were saved. I genuinely wish you hadn't been saved but that's a story for another time. He moans and groans and is a jerk to Kell when he's the only reason Rhy is alive.The characters were hardly developed at all. They were empty shells. V.E. Schwab's strength is not in character building, but you would think that they would at least be more than shallow cliches. But no.Everything about this book was bad. The villain revealed his evil plans right before trying to kill the protagonist in an elaborate manner and failing. The magic system was vague and badly written. Who has magic? Who can use it? Nobody knows. Everyone loves Alucard, but he was just another roguish, attempting-to-be-witty male character who could go wreck his ship for all I care. The foreshadowing was so stupid. It was supposed to be eerie or spooky or foreboding, but it was useless and it never went anywhere. There was a scene where Lila met this man who was selling mirrors and they had a talk. I felt like that was supposed to be foreshadowing, especially since the really cheesy, actually terrible line "she never told him her name" was used. Nobody uses that line unless they're about to do some horrible foreshadowing. But it didn't even count as foreshadowing because the entire scene was pointless. It went nowhere. Why would you tell him your name? You don't know each other. It's not like you need to be friends to buy a mirror. There were two female characters in this miserable book and they were both stereotypes. Lila was the Strong MC who hated on all other women for being like other women and still called herself a champion for women. The other female character was a shallow, vapid princess who only cared about her appearance and seducing Kell. She looked like the kind of girl who would point to something - or someone - and say, "I want one of those." And then there were these awful quotes: "I am your captain! You are my crew." The barb struck with unexpected force. ...it's not even a barb, Lila. It's facts. It's just the truth. You're not anything speshul.0.5 stars___What was the point of this book? It had no purpose. There was no plot until 65%, and the tournament was the most ridiculous thing. Not like other girls is as common as breathing here.review to come...
5500907300	1,75⭐ Ta książka była jak rozwodniony krupnik. Pół biedy, że rozwodniony, ale ja nie lubię krupniku.
1451716703	My spoiler discussion is now up on my channel!: https://youtu.be/jTE6aTbosjUTHAT ENDING DESTROYED ME SOMEONE GIVE ME THE NEXT BOOK RIGHT NOW
1381700123	The prince shrugged. “Who needs magic when you look this good?”This book set fire to my feelings and shattered my mind. Tore my heart into pieces and stole my soul.I am officially and utterly dead.Victoria Schwab worked her magic like a genius. This book was flawless, from start to finish. From cover to characters, from plot to setting, from language to imagination. And while I thought A Darker Shade of Magic was amazing, it was only the tip of the iceberg. Nothing can compare to A Gathering of Shadows. (...well. Harry Potter can. But, I mean, please...)(view spoiler)[Now let me talk freely. Lila is a unique character but Saints she annoyed me in the end. Stubborn to a point of being stupid! But oh I am so glad for Alucards existence, or better for that HEAVENLY KISS SCENE OH MY GOD. Please, Victoria, let them share lots of private moments and make-out scenes in ADSOM #3!!! I've never been much of a shipper but these two give me everything. Rhy is one of my favourite ever characters and even if everything goes to ruins, as long as Rhy and Alucard are together in the end, I will be satisfied.But no, really, I don't know where this is going. Lila will probably save Kell, I guess. And I won't be surprised if one or more important characters end up dead. But that's as far as it goes with my guessing. What is happening to Rhy? To Kell? Red London? Grey and White London? Alucard? The King and the Queen(fuck them tho.) The other Kingdoms? I have no idea. (hide spoiler)]The ending was - minor spoiler here - a stab in the chest. A Cliffhanger. Meaning endless waiting time for the sequel. How will I survive this?Find more of my books on Instagram
1659136489	Simultaneously laughing and crying. Can I give this book more than five stars? Because it deserves at least forty.Reread December 2019: a much slower beginning than I remember but I flew through the end. I feel like the first time I focused on Kell and Lila so much, so this time around I can surely say that Alucard is the best thing to ever happen and also Rhy is a worrisome sweetheart who makes me want to cry every single time I read his POV. Best ending to a book ever tho lol like hell ya
1891188052	“You tried to seduce me, for information.”“You can’t hold that against me forever.”“It was last night.” PART ONE: CHARACTERIZATIONAlternate Title: mecrying.mp3Kell is such an infinitely relatable bitter asshole of a character. He's a bit morally imperfect and he's so infinitely lovable. Lila is completely bitter and can be reckless, but she's such a consistent character and I genuinely love her so. so. much. Please read this essay talking about Lila Bard and narrative agency it's smart and I'm exhaustedRhy's character development is so awesome. In the first book, he was an okay character, but in this second book I loved him with every fiber of my heart. He's got some hidden depths and he's so interesting and funny. The side characters killed me too, of course. Alucard is funny and a ton of fun. Holland is so morally bankrupt and yet I love him so, so much. God, I love every character in this book so much. Someone please punch me in the face. PART TWO: RELATIONSHIPSAlternate Title: mecryingharder.mp3There's kind of a love square going on here, and it makes the book even better. I know that sentence sounds contradictory. But trust me, there's no annoying love triangle here. There are complex dynamics between characters, but it's not for drama. V.E. Schwab does an incredible job with the platonic relationships here. I especially loved Lila and Alucard's banter. The romance is built up very subtly and not the major focus. But oh damn, is it well written. Lila and Kell are a very well-built couple, and V.E. Schwab drew out the plot enough that I was begging for them to interact. That's talent. Please just let them be happy. I just want all of them to be happy. Damn it. PART THREE: PLOTTING AND WRITINGAlternate Title: meSCREAMING.mp3V.E. Schwab's writing is gorgeous as always. Her talent for describing setting especially stands out here. Usually I can't picture any settings in books, but I have such clear mental images of every moment of this book. And it never feels forced at all! The plot is twisty and interesting. Saying anything about it is a spoiler, but I had so many emotions here. To be fair, I guessed one of the major twists, but I had been spoiled about an aspect of it, so that's not the books' fault at all. However, the lack of direction to the plot in the first half bothered me. On one hand, I loved the extended character work and worldbuilding in the first half. On the other hand, none of the characters had any clear goal until around page 250, and the plot felt slightly less driven as a result. This is a complaint I had about book one as well. All in all, I absolutely loved this. I worship Schwab to such a high degree. She's so talented.div17: pansexual mc
2460226629	okay. i knew this was going to be good, but i didnt expect it to be that good. oh sanct, that ending. im giving this five stars for the last 100 pages alone - my heart is RACING. and im beyond happy the third book is already out because i dont know how people managed to be patient enough to wait. so where i thought the first book excelled in its world building by introducing the four different londons and their histories, i found the sequel gave amazing insight into the characters, more of their development was prevalent, and it even introduced some new key people. both aspects are important, but together they make one heck of a story. what really impressed me was how this didnt feel like a filler book, which many second books tend to be. but rather, this felt like a seamless, yet crucial, part of bridge that connects all three books. again, this was a little bit of a slow burner, but it was much easier for me to get into because i felt like there was a little more going on. i really wish the games had taken up much more of the book - i found them so interesting - but i cant complain because the last 25% or so gave the reader so much. and the writing was on point, as always. there is no question in my mind as to why this series is as loved as it is, so let the binge reading continue!↠ 4.5 stars
2709901737	If you think I'm obsessed with this series...yeah, you're absolutely right.I am.And I regret nothing._______________________________________________4.25/5 ⭐ “Everyone’s immortal until they’re not.” Okay hear me out, I loved this book but it definitely had the middle book syndrome.As always, Schwab’s books – even when they are in a series – have the same theme and characters, but they have different vibes. And this is something a love about her works.It could be the same thing said three times, but each time there would be a change of the vibe, pace and action. It doesn’t even have to be another plot – just the same, told from the perspective of different characters. Everything would change drastically.With A Gathering of Shadows , I didn’t feel like I was getting the same vibe I got with A Darker Shade of Magic , the first book. And that, in itself, was a good thing, but not always the best.And I’ll tell you why: even though I enjoyed this second instalment, I felt like it was more made to be a bridge between book one and book three.From the first book, the atmosphere was supposed to be dark, but in this one, it just became darker and heavier. And I think it would’ve figured given the title. But even so, I was expecting a bit more to happen.I was almost half done with the book and nothing was really moving. There were only pieces being settled on a big board without a real intention of starting a game. “I am grateful for the life you’ve bought me, though I hate the cost.” The characters also seemed to have changed from one instalment to the next. Whereas I liked Lila in the first book, in this one she started being more and more stubborn.She simply felt the need to be irrational and to always go looking for trouble hoping that she will find them. And she always did.She never listened to anyone, she always did as she pleased and she was also being defensive about it. And to me, that became really tiring, especially because her ideas weren’t always the most brilliant of them all. “Call me crazy, but I think we do the best living when the stakes are high.” Somehow, I managed to like the other characters more, which is good because they did the whole book more enjoyable.Kell still remains one of my favourite characters, but in this one, Alucard is also someone to look forward to meeting. I found him a quite interesting character. There is honestly not much for me to say about this book. I enjoyed it as it was and it actually started to put ideas into movement towards the end, but until then, everything looked like the draft of a mastermind plan, ready to unfurl. “Who knows? Maybe the world’s gone crooked.”
1971365618	#1 A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★ #2 A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★#3 A Conjuring of Light ★★★★★ I cannot believe that I waited nearly a year between the first book and this one, but here we are, and now I’m convinced that Victoria sacrificed an unhealthy number of virgins for her writing skills, because this series is absolute magnificence. I loved A Darker Shade of Magic so much that I was nervous to see if the second book would hold up, but let me tell you, it absolutely did, and now I am both horrified and desperately in need of seeing how it all ends up. “I am Delilah Bard,” she thought, as the ropes cut into her skin. “I am a thief and a pirate and a traveler. I have set foot in three different worlds, and lived. I have shed the blood of royals and held magic in my hands.” I only thought that I loved the characters of this series in the first book, but that was nothing compared to the feelings that I have for them by this point. There’s Lila, who took me a little bit of time to be won over by in ADSOM, but who has me utterly captivated in this installment. Her brash, headstrong, clever nature is only magnified even further as she comes into her own in the world of Red London, and while she still feels this evident need to prove herself and to come out on top, her entire attitude has been tempered—if only slightly—by the pains that her previous actions have caused. She’s also still determined to avoid dealing with her feelings towards a certain redheaded Antari, which lends beautifully to the incredible slow burn of the brief romantic undertones to these books. “I do not know why you two are circling each other like stars. It is not my cosmic dance. But I do know that you come asking after one another, when only a few strides and a handful of stars divide you.” Precious Kell, on the other hand, is still my favorite; I’m constantly torn between being amazed by his skills and abilities, and wanting to jump in and protect him from the cruelty he faces, not only as one of the last remaining Antari, but as the neglected adopted son of the King and Queen. My years of reading fantasy novels have taught me that it’s difficult for me to relate to “lawful good” characters who rely so heavily on their virtues and honor, as Kell does, but Victoria writes him so flawlessly that it never grows stale or predictable. On top of everything else, his relationship with his brother, Rhy, is one of the most wholesome, pure, and precious things I have ever seen in my entire life. Rhy held Kell’s pain in his hands, while Kell held Rhy’s life in his. Rhy Maresh is, I think, one of the most lovable fictional characters who has ever been written. I don’t know if I have ever met a fan of this series who does not adore him at least a little bit, especially upon getting to know the quiet self-loathing that resides under his charisma and charm. He broke my heart so many times during his struggles with the lengths Kell has gone to in order to save him, and the fact that he values his own presence in the world so little is crushing, yet nevertheless, Rhy is a constant source of drama, amusement, and sweet brotherly love in a world full of violence and fear. The fact that both of these princes would so readily give up everything for one another is perhaps my single favorite aspect to this gorgeous series thus far. “Fix your crown, my prince,” he called back as he reached the door. “It’s crooked.” Of course, this review would be wholly incomplete without taking a moment to talk about the utterly fantastic addition to the cast: Alucard Emery, privateer, playboy, magical aficionado, and captain of the Night Spire crew. He is hilarious, delightful in every way, and an absolute deviant who never fails to keep you guessing. I love his entire presence in the story, and though I am left with a million and one questions about his past and how it relates to the lives of the Maresh family, it is easily one of the things that I am most excited about tying up in A Conjuring of Light. “Magic is tangled, so you must be smooth.Magic is wild, so you must be tame.Magic is chaos, so you must be calm.Are you calm, Kell?” Besides the wonderful cast of characters (including one special individual who I’m not going to mention here for fear of spoiling anyone, but let me say that I am absolutely ecstatic to see things through his perspective on occasion, and terrified to see what he will do next), there’s also the fact that, once again, Victoria proves her writing prowess through incredible action scenes and magical world-building. There is a tournament featured in this installment that never grows stale or dull; despite its potential for repetition, as is frequent with “trials” in books, not once did I lose the feeling of gripping the edge of my seat. “I gave him my life, but you cannot ask me to stop living.” This sequel also delves much further into the history of Red London and its surrounding lands, as well as the political climate between the kingdom of Arnes and its allies and potential enemies. It was such a fantastic buildup of information, but I can’t help but wonder how it can all possibly be addressed in the finale. That said, I have no doubts that I will be pleased with how everything turns out (and it doesn’t hurt that I know there are further books coming along in the future, too!). They crashed into each other as if propelled by gravity, and he didn’t know which one of them was the object and which the earth, only that they were colliding. I don’t think I can say too much more without spoiling any of the twists and turns in this installment, so I’ll end this review on this note: if you enjoy fantasy worlds with lovable characters, a brilliant (yet never overdone) magic system, world-building and history for days, and enough twists and turns to never let you find a moment’s rest, I cannot recommend this series highly enough—and I cannot wait to read the final piece to the story!---Buddy read with Terry and Julie! ♥♥♥You can find this review and more on my blog, or you can follow me on twitter, bookstagram, or facebook!
1551733990	THIS SERIES IS EVERYTHING TO ME..THIS SEQUEL WAS AMAZINGELEMENTAL CONTROL..YES..YES..GIVE ME MOREMOREI SAIDmorePLEASEI'm cryingi need the next book..omg
1967847416	2.5 - Barely anything happened in this book. There didn't need to be a full book to set up the little bit that happened at the end. 2.5 stars because it's neutral. Not horrible (I liked the new characters) but it felt like a waste mostly. Video review to come.
1688900917	congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best fantasy category 2016!Lila shrugged. "Everyone's immortal until they're not."this is one of those crossover dealies that isn't marketed (or priced, unfortunately) as YA, but there's no reason for it not to be in the YA section, from a reader perspective. from the publisher's perspective, obviously it's always better when you can set your cover price in the ten bucks higher adult-market range, but since this is such a pretty book, i'm okay with that THIS TIME, even though it's such a fast read, you'll tear through it like you're at a cookie party. (please invite me to cookie parties) i was not crazy about the first book in this trilogy. it was fine - i liked the world in which it was set, and i loved the character of lila, but it seemed to be doing a lot of buildup and stage-setting without delivering much actiony payoff. however, when i read the synopsis of this one, promising an international magic-based tournament, i thought, "oh, yes - that will have some action for sure!" and it's great - it starts off great and it continues to be great the whole way through. need more details than me mumbling "great" through a mouthful of cookies? fine.this one makes with the action right away, in an opening scene revealing lila in a perilous situation, and loving every minute of it. kell was the primary focus in the first book, but here, lila has sidled her scrawny ass into the limelight and she's not giving it up for anything. kell and rhy will get their POV-time, but lila steals the show, as well as everything else that isn't nailed down. there's just something about her i love. sure, she's the archetypal badass chick whose hardscrabble background has taught her that no one's coming to her rescue, emotions are liabilities, and knives are wonderfully persuasive, which tough-girl attitude should be totally cheesy:Tieran fixed her with his gaze. "Has anyone ever told you that you're too sharp for your own good?""Too sharp. Too loud. Too reckless. I've heard it all. It's a wonder I'm still alive."but for some reason, i just adore her. with her wolfish smile and her terrible decisions and her knack for getting into and out of danger, everything she's done to leave behind her unsatisfyingly grey life and launch herself into a world of magic and adventure - she's neither infallible nor completely guarded, and there's a perfect balance to her character - she's able to walk away from someone without looking back, but she'll still daydream a little.and she gives herself awesome daenerys-caliber pep talks: Dangerous.Reckless.Foolish.Mad.A chorus of doubt so loud her boots took a step back of their own accord.In one of the other stadiums, the crowds cheered as an Arnesian emerged victorious.Lila retreated another step.And then she caught sight of the flag - her flag - in the stands, and her steps ground to a halt.I am Delilah Bard, she thought. Pirate, thief, magician.Her fingertips began to thrum.I have crossed worlds and taken ships. Fought queens and saved cities.Her bones shuddered and her blood raced.I am one of a kind. she definitely is one of a kind (view spoiler)[ and i really hope she's not antari, missing eye or no, because i want her identity, her abilities, to be singular; something hers and hers alone, not part of a tradition or tribe. she's a monolith, not a link in some chain. (hide spoiler)]lila aside, there are excellent developments in the rest of the world. that thing kell did in the last book for rhy has consequences both physical and psychological, and has caused a great deal of tension in his relationship with the king and queen. kell spends a lot of this book moping around in a daze of "why are 'mommy' and 'daddy' so mad at me and will i ever see lila again and woe woe woe," until rhy comes up with a wonderful diversion for him, to take his mind off of his emo crap and also relieve a lot of pent-up aggression. (and please tell me there is rhy/kell fanfic out there, because there needs to be, right?)we also get a better, more focused view of the politics of red london this time around. in the first book, we were bouncing around between the various londons and learning about their relationships with each other, but here we get a more detailed look at red london - its history and the rivalries between the different cultures and lands making up the kingdom, and the intricacies of its power structure, which playboy rhy will one day have to navigate"Ruling is a delicate affair," his father had chided. "Every gesture carries purpose and meaning. This tournament is not only a game. It helps to maintain peace with our neighboring empires, and it allows us to show them our resources without implying any threat. The king had laced his fingers. "Politics is a dance until the moment it becomes a war. And we control the music."the tournament itself is fun, but lower-stakes than i had anticipated. this isn't The Hunger Games or Battle Royale; it's more diplomatic; it's entertainment, and the participants are carefully selected and matched to deliver a good show without killing anyone, like a magical pageant designed by jane austen. however, that careful plan has had a monkeywrench thrown in by a couple of dark horses. and kidnapping. there's always gotta be some kidnapping.we get a new character in alucard, who - despite that stupid gothy name, is very likable. not so much to kell - there's some history there, but to me. and to lila.oh, and what will become of lila and kell?? will there be unbearable tension?? will every time they say "hello" read like barely-restrained pornography, like in those very rare moments when felicity lets down her emotional guard on The Americans and a touch of the hand comes across as unspeakably intimate? will lila finally find a dress to wear?"What's wrong with black? It's the perfect color.""For hiding. For blending into shadows. For storming castles. Not for balls. I let you go to the last one in black, and it has bothered me all winter.""If that's true, you don't have enough things to worry about."Calla tsked and turned toward the collection of dresses. Lila's gaze raked over them, and she cringed at a yolk-yellow skirt, a velvety purple sleeve. They looked like pieces of ripe fruit, like decadent desserts. Lila wanted to look powerful, not edible. woe to the person who tries. this is a girl with many knives strapped on under her gowns.while all this is taking place in red london, we get some hints of what's been happening in white london since the events of the last book. trouble is a-brewing. this book ends on a corker of a cliffhanger, and i'm so glad i kept on with this series, because i am eager to see what happens in book three. bring it on!***************************************this one is SO MUCH better than the first book. what a relief! thanks for making me stick with it, machalo buddies!come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
7303732484	⤷3.5! Better than the last!! Plot still took a longggg time to happen, the tournament started like 70% of the way in 😭 At least Lila's adventures as a 'pirate' was somewhat interesting. To be honest, I really don't like Alucard, and the crew members that Lila meet are so unimpressionable :') Rhy really annoyed me because of how reckless he was, like how can you love Kell but keep putting him and yourself in danger?? Doesn't really make sense!! I loved the slow burn though, and the reunion between Kell and Lila was sooo good ❤️ VE Schawb really did make the almost-meeting moments really gripping 🙂‍↕️ I adore Kell's growth sm!! The tournament was fun when it did start and it was cool seeing Lila discover her powers and fulfill her ambitions :) I'm glad the plot with Black London finally developed and will def read the last book!! I'm still in a fever dream about what even happened in this book but at least it was entertaining?? :')["Oh yes, your relationship with Miss Bard is positively ordinary.""Be quiet.""Crossing worlds, killing royals, saving cities. The marks of every good courtship."]
4135994717	I’m on BookTube now! =)”People could only hurt you if you cared enough to let them.” I think this quote describes the vibe of the book in a nutshell. “A Gathering of Shadows” is all about the characters and their strong feelings for each other. Sometimes those feelings get in the way and make it impossible to grow and to be who they truly are and sometimes those feelings help them to realize what is important. At times to read this book felt like you’re staunching a wound and no matter what you do, it always starts to bleed anew. The repercussions of what happened in the finale of “A Darker Shade of Magic” are perceptible in every single word of the story and I was hurting with the characters so much it wasn’t normal anymore. While Rhy and Kell are trying their best to ignore what happened to them, while they try to come to terms with their changed reality and their place in the grand scheme of things, Lila and Alucard are just trying to have the time of their lives. And I was thankful for it, because the Lila/Alucard Duo was a really good counterweight to Rhy and Kell. As for the third plot line... gosh I was so anxious about what would happen. The knowledge that there was a new force at work in White London had me all kinds of worried and it felt like a looming presence above my head. Do you know the expression: “It hangs like a sword of Damocles above/over sth”? Well, I think that about nails the overall feeling of dread I experienced while reading the book. >_< This said I think I’ll head to my characters section now because I need to get rid of a lot of thoughts and they’ll be spoilery so consider yourself warned! ;-)The characters:Welcome to Red London! If you have magic running through your veins I’m sure you’ll enjoy the Essen Tasch! The finest of our finest will duel each other and not everyone is going to survive the spoilery fun! Tread carefully and try to stay out of trouble. The spoilers? Well, if you continue to read they’ll find you anyway.Lila:”People survived by being cautious, but they got ahead by being bold.” I guess I got the answer to my question: Lila became a pirate, indeed. *lol* I personally liked her more in this book because she finally opened up and we got a good glimpse at her true personality. In the first book I could never get a grasp of her but this time around we were finally allowed to dive a little bit deeper into her personality. She doesn’t like to let anyone in because she is scared of her own feelings, but despite all her cool exterior and bravado she cares a lot about the people she spends her time with. Alucard and his crew grew on her and Rhy and Kell seem to own a special place in her heart as well. Lila’s determination to do whatever she wants is something I totally admire about her. She sets her eyes on a goal and she doesn’t cave until she made it. Her participation in the Essen Tasch was very reckless but I guess she’s one of those people that need to test their own limits and strength. And truth be told, if I would discover magic in myself I’d want to test and try it out too. *lol*I mean, who wouldn’t? ;-P”Lila was a quick study, and she knew how to keep up a front; but behind the mask of disinterest, she took in everything. She was a sponge, soaking up the words and customs, training herself to see something once and be able to pretend she’d seen it a dozen – a hundred – times before.””She wanted to push away from the table and walk out, walk away, break the cords that tied her to this ship and this crew and this life, and start over. Whenever she felt the weight of those bonds, she wished she could take her sharpest knife and cut them free, carve out the part of her that wanted, that cared, that warmed at the feeling of Alucard’s hand on her shoulder, Tav’s smile, Stross’s nod.””The thing about freedom, Kell? It doesn’t come naturally. Almost no one has it handed to them. I’m free because I fought for it. You’re supposed to be the most powerful magician in all the worlds. If you don’t want to be here, then go.”Kell:” The truth was, Kell’s blood pulsed with a restless beat, while the thing that coursed within it longed for activity. Something had been roused in him, and it didn’t seem intent on going back to sleep.” Okay, my hope that things would get better for Kell in “A Gathering of Shadows” was crushed the moment I first read his POV. My poor red-head suffered even more than he did in the first book and most of it was due to his connection with Rhy and the behaviour of his “parents”. I hated that they treated him like a criminal and even though I understood that they wanted to keep Rhy save I still detested them for the way they treated Kell. The fact that he could feel each and every single one of Rhy’s emotions and his pain certainly didn’t help to make him feel better and his slow but gradual suffocation was noticeable throughout the entire book. I bled with Kell and I could understand his need to be free. His entire life turned bitter and he realized that he was never truly a part of the Maresh family and only a means to an end. And then this horrible ending!!! ARGH!!! As if he hadn’t suffered enough already! I really hope my boy will be safe in the next book and that Lila will be able to rescue him. ”But that was the thing. Kell would never be free. No matter how far he fled. He’d given up freedom with is life, when he handed it to Rhy.” ”Rhy had always been fickle, but now Kell felt his brother’s ever-shifting temperament, the constant oscillation, and it was maddening. Space meant nothing. They could be standing side by side or Londons apart. There was no escape.More and more, the bond felt like a chain.”Rhy:”He could feel it, whatever it was, hovering in the air around him, waiting until the sun went down and the world got quiet. Quiet enough to think. Thoughts, those were the waiting things, and once they started up, he couldn’t seem to silence them.Saints, how he tried.” You know, I’m kinda sad I never got to see more of the carefree and funny Rhy because the ending of “A Darker Shade of Magic” obviously left its traces on his personality as well. The Rhy in this book was very serious and haunted by his past. Then again I suppose to die and to come back to life will do that to a person. His life force is bound to Kell and what one of them does is felt by the other so it’s no wonder the Rhy in this book was more mature and intense. He feels responsible for everything that happened to his people and Kell and he just can’t seem to be able to live with what he did. I really hope someone is going to tell him that it wasn’t his fault and that him wanting to be a better prince and worthy was the thing that caused him to use the necklace. His fault wasn’t to fall for Holland’s trick because he wanted to be stronger; his fault was to try to please his parents and to think that the power he already has wouldn’t be enough. All that self-hatred... it will destroy him from the inside out. I really hope someone (hopefully Alucard) will be able to get through to him.”Kell. My greatest fear in life isn’t dying. It’s being the source of someone else’s suffering. I know you feel trapped. I know I’m your cage. And I can’t –“ His voice broke, and Kell could feel his brother’s pain, everything he tried to smother until dark and drown until morning. “You will do this,” said Rhy. “For me. For both of us.””Every day. I wake up wanting to be a stronger person. A better prince. A worthy king. That want, it’s like a fire in my chest. And then, there are these moments, these horrible, icy moments when I remember what I did ...” His hand drifted to his heart. “To myself. To you. To my kingdom. And it hurts...” His voice trembled. “More than dying ever did. There are days when I don’t feel like I deserve this.””He’d always envied his brother’s strength. And now, in a horrible way, it was his.He was immortal.And he hated it.And he hated that he hated it. Hated that he’d become the thing he never wanted to be, a burden to his brother, a source of pain and suffering, a prison. Hated that if he’d had a choice, he would have said no. Hated that he was grateful he hadn’t had a choice, because he wanted to live, even if he didn’t deserve to.”The relationships & ships:Lila & Kell:”Oh yes, your relationship with Miss Bard is positively ordinary.”“Be quiet.”“Crossing worlds, killing royals, saving cities. The marks of every good courtship.”“We weren’t courting,” snapped Kell. “In case you forgot, she left.”I really like those two and I definitely want more of them! I mean their kiss was ... for lack of a better word hot and I think we deserve to see more of this ship. It’s a really slow burn but I actually like that about it. It probably comes with the nature of both of them. While Kell is all restraint and the brooding kind of type, Lila is all recklessness and bravado. Their personalities are quite a contrast but we all know opposites attract. ;-P I guess before we can find out if their ship is going to work out Lila will have to save her man first though! And I really hope she’ll do it fast because my boys are suffering and I need them to survive this!!! T_T”They crashed into each other as if propelled by gravity, and he didn’t know which of them was the object and which the earth, only that they were colliding. This kiss as Lila pressed into a single gesture. Her brazen pride and her stubborn resolve, her recklessness and her daring and her hunger for freedom. It was all those things, and it took Kell’s breath away.”Rhy & Kell:To his surprise, Rhy shot him a scowl. “I’m invested in my kingdom, Brother,” he snapped. “You should be, too.”“I’m not their prince,” observed Kell. He was in no mood for Rhy’s attitude. “I’m just the one who has to clean up his messes.”I love their brotherly bond so much but it definitely suffered in this book. Both of them didn’t know how to cope with the situation they found themselves in and both of them tried to atone for what they did in their own way. I wish they would have done it together, that they would have addressed all those things that stood between them more directly. Their relationship was so strained and it hurt to see them together. They were both bleeding and I think the only ones who could stop it are Kell and Rhy themselves. I really hope they’ll talk it out in the last book and that their relationship will be more relaxed again. I mean yes, their fate is bound together but if they are on the same page they could do so many great things. I want them to find peace in the next book and I genuinely hope they will.”These days, Rhy always seemed to be the source of Kell’s suffering, while Kell himself walked around as if the world were suddenly made of glass, all because of Rhy. It wasn’t even in the end, wasn’t balanced, wasn’t fair. Rhy held Kell’s pain in his hands, while Kell held Rhy’s life in his.””Kell.” Rhy sat forward, elbows on his knees. “I was dead.” The words hung in the air between them.“I was dead,” he said again, “and you brought me back. You have already given me something I shouldn’t have.” A shadow flashed across his face when he said it, there and then gone. “If it were lost again,” he went on, “I would still have lived twice. This is all borrowed.”Alucard & Rhy:Rhy turned to say something, but Alucard’s mouth was already there on his. Hands tangled in hair, clutched at coats. They were a collision, spurred by the force of three years apart.“You missed me,” said Alucard. It was not a question, but there was a confession in it, because everything about Alucard – the tension in his back, the ways his hips pressed into Rhy’s, the race of his heart and the tremor of his voice – said that the missing had been mutal.Now that came as a surprise! I knew there was something between them by the way they acted around each other but woah their romance totally caught me off guard. I guess this is mostly due to the fact that Alucard is a newly introduced character and that we didn’t know much about his past before his ship docked at London. I’m all aboard the Rhylucard/Alurhy?! ship though so please let more of those scenes come way! *lol* It’s so obvious Alucard is totally besotted with Rhy and I’m ready to see more of Rhy’s true feelings for the rakish captain as well. More, please?! XDAlucard & Lila:”There was a measure of theatre to everything Alucard did. She wondered how many other parts he could play. Wondered which, if any, were not a part, but the actor beneath.””Lila really should have killed him, back when they first met. Back before she could know him. Back before she could like him so much.” I’m a huge fan of their friendship and I think they should continue to be just friends. Not gonna lie, the chemistry between them was amazing but they are both too reckless and probably would get each other killed. Their flame would burn bright and then blow out. *lol* I can’t blame Lila for giving into Alucard’s advances though. I mean that man is a really nice package! ;-P A deceitful and cunning package but a nice package nevertheless. XD”Tell me,” he whispered, “was that better than winning a bet?”She was breathless. “You make a valid argument.”“I’d love to press the point,” he said, “but first ...” He cleared his throat, and looked down at the knife she had resting against the inside of his leg.“Reflex,” she said with a smirk, returning the weapon to its sheath.”Lila & Rhy:Lila’s expression hardened. “Whatever he feels for me, it isn’t love.”“Because it isn’t soft and sweet and doting?” Rhy rocked back, stretching against the pillar. “Do you know how many times he’s nearly beat me senseless out of love? How many times I’ve done the same? I’ve seen the way he looks at those he hates...” He shook his head. “There are very few things my brother cares about, and even fewer people.”The bond between those two surprised me as well. Lila and Rhy really seem to care about each other and I loved their tiny interactions. I’m glad Rhy kind of seems to function as a translator between Kell and Lila because I think otherwise those two would always talk past each other. XD Also can we appreciate how Lila’s first reaction, when she saw an upset Rhy, was to ask him who she needed to kill? I loved this so much because ARGH! Coming from Lila this means the world! <33 Lila and Rhy give me a Blue and Ronan vibe and I’m so here for it! I can’t wait to see more of their interactions in the next book and I hope there will be many. He ducked his head and let out a shuddering sigh. Lila hesitated. She knew she should probably bow, kiss his hand, or swoon – at the very least explain what she was doing there, in the private palace halls, as close to the prison as anyone would let her – but instead she flicked her fingers, producing a small blade. “Who do I need to kill?”Rhy let out a stifled sound, half sob, half laugh, and sank onto his haunches, still gripping the wooden edge of the table.”The King & Queen and Kell:Kell swallowed. “Will they never forgive me?”“Which would you rather have? Their forgiveness, or Rhy’s life?”“I shouldn’t have to choose,” he snapped.I absolutely hated Rhy’s parents in this. His mum didn’t do anything and King Maxim was so unfair to Kell that I wanted to take him by the shoulders and shake some sense into him. I think Kell suffered enough and he did it all to save their son because Rhy got himself into a sticky situation that almost killed him. How is that Kell’s fault? They can blame him for dark magic finding its way into their kingdom and for being a smuggler but they can’t blame him for saving their son’s life. The Dane Twins plot would have fruited no matter what Kell did. It wasn’t his fault that Rhy felt a need to be stronger for his people. Plus Holland could have easily caused trouble without involving Kell. After all he’s an Antari too and can travel between the worlds. If King Maxim would have been fair to Kell and would have trusted him the ending of this book would have never happened. So everything that happens now is on him. I hope he’ll realize this before everything goes to hell. >_<He stilled. “No. But we both know this isn’t about what’s good for me.”“You’re right. It’s about what’s good for our kingdom. And if you are loyal to this crown, and to this family, you will confine yourself to this palace until the tournament is over. Am I understood?” ”I can’t keep atoning,” Kell whispered into the king’s shoulder. “I gave him my life, but you cannot ask me to stop living.”Conclusion:I really enjoyed “A Gathering of Shadows” and I can’t wait to read the last book of the series. Since the Essen Tasch was a huge part of this story I couldn’t help but draw parallels to Jay Kristoff’s “Godsgrave” though. Both books were the second book of a series and focused on a deadly tournament while the main plot was still running in the background. My weird brain is probably the only one that saw those similarities... Anyway! I absolutely loved the world and the characters Schwab created and I’m very curious where this series will end. I’m definitely more than just willing to find out. ;-)_____________________________Who wants to go on a journey with me and find out what Lila and Kell are up to?!It’s been over a year I read the first book and by now my curiosity has reached its peak. *lol*Plus I put this on ”My July TBR” video and whenever I put something on my monthly TBR and capture my promise on video I need to keep that promise. Surprisingly it worked so far! XDThis said: Are you ready for the ride?! Because I sure am! ;-)"A Gathering of Shadows" here I come.
2650692869	2018: 5/52023: Rozumiem zarzuty osób, którym się nie podobało, ALE GOD I LOVE ITTTTTTTTT
2594372281	This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book Prescription “Kell would say it was impossible. What a useless word, in a world with magic.”🌟 I respect Schwab’s ability to excel in all components of the stories in her books. This Savage Song had a great plot, Vicious was all about the characters, City of Ghosts is an all round book for younger readers and this series has amazing world-building.🌟 After enjoying the first book and everyone hyping this book for me and saying it gets better I got so excited! I thought that I was going to read my next 5 stars book but I just didn’t! Victoria is one of my favorite authors but something was missing in this book and I know exactly what it was!🌟 To be honest, nothing was missing and that is the problem. It was overstuffed with too much details and the thing I wanted to be better was the plot. The plot was slow and not much was happening till part 4 and then I thought it would get better now, it was slightly better but once again I wanted more and that didn’t happen till the last 150 Pages. I felt that this book could have been easily 250 pages instead of 500!!🌟 I still think the world building is cool and I enjoy it and how it expands. The characters are also very unique and memorable. I like Kell, Lila and most importantly Holland whose chapters were the best!🌟 Summary: I think the book was good but I expected more action and a faster pacing! It still has great characters and amazing world-building but the plot was lacking. I hope the last book redeems this one and is better. I am giving this one 3.5 out of 5 stars.
1735840119	I SALUTE ANYONE THAT HAD TO LIVE MORE THAN AN ENTIRE YEAR DANGLING OFF THAT BRUTAL CLIFFHANGER OH MY HOLY FUCKRemember when I called A Darker Shade of Magic a slow-burner? HA. Well. This one just burns you alive and makes you enjoy every fiery second of it. WHAT A RIDE.I'm far too impatient to get on with the next book, so here's a random assortment of my thoughts and feelings on this glorious work of new adult literature...(((kindasorta spoilers incoming))) Things I thought I wouldn't like: • Lila and Kell being separated for the most part• New major characters aka Alucard Emery• The descriptive writing style and pace• Scenes in White London Things I liked: • Lila and Kell being separated for the most part• New major characters aka Alucard Emery• The descriptive writing style and pace• Scenes in White LondonIt's amazing really. Waiting for the release of A Conjuring of Light wasn't the only thing that held me back from starting this ages ago— oh no, it was knowing that Kell and Lila wouldn't actually be seeing each other for the better part of the book that takes all the credit for that.And yet here I am, loving this sequel so much more quite possibly just because of that. It's not that I didn't miss or crave our favorite duo's crazy adventures together again, just as much as they probably must have themselves. (In fact, V Schwab better have a whole lotta that in store for us next!) But as they say, distance makes the heart grow fonder and the same is true for my fickle reader's heart. Because when the time finally comes for them to reunite, it's not with a crackle, not with a sizzle, but with a BANG. If this were Instagram, this would be about an appropriate time to implement the use of the #worthit hashtag. And don't even get me started on the charming bastard of a pirat—*cough* privateer that goes by the name of one Alucard Emery. ~swoooon~Here's a little something to help show how I feel about our newly sailed ship:And here's reasons to love Lila 101:There's no need to supply reasons to love Kell because that's simply a universal fact, of course. (FIGHT ME ON THIS I DARE YOU)Bonus fan art because they're just really fucking cool and beautiful and a million hugs and kisses to the artists that created them whoever you wonderful humans are:And finally. White London. THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT I'D WANTED AND HOPED FOR AND I AM SO HAPPY BUT ALSO NOT HAPPY BECAUSE COULD EVERYONE JUST LEAVE MY POOR BBY HOLLAND ALOOONE D':All I can say is V. E. Schwab's writing goes beyond measure for me this time round and I am sold by her compelling storytelling style. Sign me up for anything this woman writes!
1560724063	So the 1st book, A Darker Shade of Magic, didn't blow me away. I liked it, but I just didn't quite love it.Interested, but not invested.Which means I didn't rush out to grab a copy of this one, because I just wasn't sure how excited I actually was to read it. However, my trepidation was unwarranted. A Gathering of Shadows was so much better than I expected it to be! There was this whole connection to the characters that (I felt) was missing from the 1st book, and this time around the author made me feel...more? Plus, (and I love it when a book does this) I caught myself saying stuff out loud while I was reading.Like: Oh, shit! and I thought he was dead!Good stuff.Oh, and there were a lot of new developments, cool reveals, and (of course) answers-to-questions-that-just-lead-to-more-questions. Very EXCITING!Sadly, I'm so late to this party, and there are so many fantastic reviews up already that I don't feel the need to waste your (very valuable, I'm sure) time re-hashing the plot.I will say I think this one is worth your time, even if you weren't a huge fan of book #1.
1916885078	I found the second book to be better than the first honestly, it's pacing was a lot better and the tension built all way to the end so that I felt like bursting when I finished the book and it left off where it did. Also I really liked seeing Lila soften up a little and get a less controlled version of Kell. I know there's been a lot of hype around the books so people end up not liking it as much because of their expectations but I think if you go into without expectations I think it makes it way easier to appreciate the books. The characters have depth and while the idea of magic or controlling the elements might not be unique it's well executed. For me fiction is at its best when it helps me forget myself and both the first book and this one really drew me in so personally I'm in the camp with everyone who loved them.
1729937601	** 5+++ "I’M OBSESSED AND IN AWE" !! stars **It’s official, this series now has a hold on me and it won’t let go. I’m in love with the writing, the world and the characters ! This series has definitely made it to the top of my all-time favorite series with this second installment ! It’s been a while since I absolutely loved everything about a series or felt so invested, but I have to say these books gave me everything I’m looking for when I read a book ! First off, let’s be honest, this second installment didn’t have much of a plot like the first one had with the whole getting rid of the Black Stone and fighting off the Dane Twins. Nothing much happened for the two thirds of the book, and we only got a glimpse of the heavy stuff finally happening only at the very end of the book. BUT, I didn’t care, because the author still managed to have me engrossed the whole time ! With this second book, Schwab decided to focus on her characters : their well-done development, their complexity, their struggles against their own demons, the dynamics as well as the relationships between all of them, creating the feeling as if we were close to them, as if we deeply knew them up to their darkest secrets and feelings, making us care about them to the point where I was scared all the time for my babies and couldn’t bear the thought of any of them getting hurt. ”Everyone thinks I have a death wish, you know ? But I don’t want to die- dying is easy. No, I want to live, but getting close to death is the only way to feel alive. And once you do, it makes you realize that everything you were doing before wasn’t actually living. It was just making do. Call me crazy, but I think we do the best living when the stakes are high.” Obviously, the world-building still played a huge part in my loving this second book so much. It was still just as amazing, well thought-out and mesmerizing. The magic system still has me awed with how detailed it is, how it has a darkness to it making it fascinating. But Schwab made it even more badass and epic by opening the borders of her world beyond Red London and Arnes to introduce us to pirates, oops, sorry, I meant “privateers” ;D as well as the people from other Empires, this only accented more by the Element Games that brought action and even more diversity to the world (I couldn’t help but picture the Olympic Games that just ended when thinking about the Element Games, I guess it was just because of the mood ^^). The storyline in this one was more slow-paced but very subtle, smoothly and cleverly leading you to where the author wanted to get you the whole time. Once again, even though there wasn’t a lot of action for most of the book, I never found myself bored, just entranced by the characters and their journey. Speaking of the characters , there’s basically not one I didn’t absolutely love ! If that was even possible, I fell more in love with KELL. In this one, he no longer feels like a possession to the Red London’s Royal family but more like a prisoner. No one, except for Rhy, trusts him anymore, everyone fears or hates him, blaming him for the Black Night. Kell feels out of place and for the first time actually considers just running away, but he can’t bring himself to leave his brother behind. I felt Kell’s loneliness and the unfairness of his treatment, I just wanted to hug him and tell him that I would never turn my back on him and that I’ll always love him ^^ (view spoiler)[I was afraid at the end that Kell would turn to the dark side because of the Royal family’s rejection but thank God, he came to his senses, but I’m still scared of what’s going to happen to him now. Hopefully, Lila is going to come to his rescue, I’m sure she’ll make it, badass as she is ;) (hide spoiler)]RHY also managed to win me over ! I loved his cockiness, how he always seems cheerful, always ready to party and flirt. He also had kind of a childish side to him that just made him a sweetheart and melt my heart. But behind all that façade, Rhy had demons of his own, not bearing what he did in the previous book and his brother’s suffering because of him and trying his best to make it better for Kell. I loved their bromance which was much more developed in this second book. Kell and Rhy had an easy banter, always looking out for the other, they’re a real team, it’s like it’s them against everyone else, and it just made my heart burst with love for them both. ”What brings you to my room ?” Kell asked, relief bleeding into annoyance.“Adventure. Intrigue. Brotherly concern. Or,” continued the prince lazily, “perhaps I’m just giving your mirror something to look at besides your constant pout.”Kell frowned, and Rhy smiled. “Ah, there it is ! That famous scowl.” LILA was still badass, reckless, restless, always looking for trouble, trying her hardest not to care too much about her crew or Kell, but realizing she can’t help it. Lila and Kell were apart for most of the book, but once they finally came back together, I felt like it was totally worth the wait. Their relationship slowly takes a deeper meaning, with both of them having missed the other one and understanding the other’s loneliness and thirst for freedom and thrills. I also very much liked Lila’s relationship with Alucard, which felt more like a master/student or big brother/little sister relationship. They had great banter, both of them being stubborn, I loved how Alucard was always there to look out for Lila even if she didn’t need it, trying to get secrets out of her but at the same time helping her with her magic. ALUCARD was a great addition to the story, he was a cocky and witty Captain, very skilled and badass with magic, but also wise and he had an air of superiority. And that thing with Rhy, totally unexpected but absolutely loved it ! (view spoiler)[That kiss was HOT !! I’m excited for more of them ! (hide spoiler)] ”You’re still mad at me,” Alucard said. Lila straightened. “You tried to seduce me, for information.”“You can’t hold that against me forever.”“It was last night.”“Well, I was running out of options, and I figured it was worth a shot.”Lila rolled her eyes. “You really know how to make a girl feel special.”“I thought I was in trouble precisely for making you feel special.” But that ending though ?! I can’t, I need book 3 RIGHT now !! I hope everything will be okay for my babies !! ^_^["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1910873676	This sequel turned out disappointingly underwhelming for me, which is a shame because I loved the first book. The best part about its predecessor was reading the journey with the two main characters and watching them interact during their adventure together; however, in this sequel, Kell and Lila don't meet again until you're 70-80% done with the story. The plot is incredibly slow and I question the necessity of it in the first place - it much feels like a "filler" to bridge into the last book, since the Elemental Games don't start until you're halfway through the story and don't turn out to be of any significance to the series overall, other than letting Kell and Lila reunite. Lila's desire to join the Elemental Games while shelving off her initial dreams of becoming a pirate also seem too convenient for the sake of making the plot work. I still plan on reading the last book, as I believe the characters have a lot more potential to shine if they had a better narrative - give me more adventures again!
1717341638	*screeches and runs to Amazon to order ACoL IMMEDIATELY*
1454752039	Here we are again with 3 stars. I keep wanting to reason with myself that this book deserves both a higher and a lower rating... I guess I am going to have to settle with 3 stars. There is a great amount of potential in this series. Schwab's writing style is delicious to read, I mean she really knows how to paint a picture for her audience. Her writing style alone accounts for at least 1.5 stars of my rating. I think my main problem is, even though I like some of the characters present here, I don't really care which way this story ends up going. I'm not invested in any of my speculations. There were definitely some enjoyable moments here, especially near the middle/end of the book, but it wasn't enough to really salvage my detachment.Overall I would say this series has been better than your average YA for sure. If anything you've got a writer who takes her craft very seriously. But the spark is missing. I will definitely be completing this series when it finishes in 2017, because I have a favorite & I wanna know how their story ends. *Note: I would not recommend listening to this book in audio form. I did so only because I was trying to get through it quickly for my book club deadline, but the narrators for this installment left a lot to be desired.***UPDATE: I didn't find out until recently that this series is actually intended to read like an Adult Fantasy. Spoiler: it doesn't. It reads very much like YA Fantasy.**
1572707686	1.) A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★Readalong for the BooktubeSFF Awards which is being hosted by Adriana from Perpetual Pages, Chelsea from TheReadingOutlaw, Samantha from Novels and Nonsense, Connor from Connor O'Brien, Elizabeth from Books and Pieces, Kaitlin from Kitty G, Sam from Thoughts on Tomes, Elena from Elena Reads Books, and Thomas from SFF180!Four months have passed since the events that took place in A Darker Shade of Magic. The dust has settled in Red London, but the memories and repercussions are still haunting our princes. And in this world there are four parallel Londons that coexist in this universe: ➽ Grey London - (smells like smoke) is like our real world's London, with no magic. Delilah Bard is from this London.➽ Red London - (smells like flowers) is the home of the main protagonist, Kell, where he and his royal family rule. There is an abundance of magic in this London, most coming from a red river which lights up the whole city.➽ White London - (smells like blood) is a city in war with itself. It was ruled by evil twins, but now has a new king. Everyone in this London tries to fight for magic and power within this corrupt city.➽ Black London - (we don't know what it smells like) and is still basically a mystery. It is essentially a lost city, since regular people cannot travel between worlds. “You can kill people, but you cannot kill magic.” I completely gushed about this in my A Darker Shade of Magic review, but this plot and concept is truly unique and unlike anything I've ever read before. I did enjoy this more than A Darker Shade of Magic, but I still wasn't as in love as most people are with this series. I am completely head over heels captivated with this cast, but the Tri-Wizard Tournament reminiscent storyline left a lot to be desired. This is a very character driven story and, bless V.E. Schwab, the characters in this are nothing short of amazing: ➽ Kell - Our most powerful magician.➽ Rhy - Our king in waiting. ➽ Delilah Bard - Our finally found pirate! ➽ Alucard - Our brand new captain. Like, two amazing ships are full sails ahead, but I always feel so underwhelmed by the romantic scenes. Like, I know not every book has to have romance and/or sex, but throw a girl a freakin' bone. I would do sick and terrible things for a mutually romantic understanding with either of these OTPS, because the missed-connections are killing me. “You two are circling each other like stars. It is not my cosmic dance. But I do know that you come asking after one another, when only a few strides and a handful of stairs divide you.” And let me say, I, Melanie Parker, was personally living for any interaction with Alucard and Rhy. Like, I was such a hot mess when the scene in Rhy's room happened. If you've read this book then you know the scene. Like, I was gasping, screeching, rolling around in my bed. It wasn't pretty. All I want in A Conjuring of Light is a play by play of their daily interactions with each other. It truly is all I need in this life.Delilah Bard is one of the best characters I've ever had the pleasure of reading about. Seriously, she is exactly the type of girl I would want my future daughter to read about. Seeing her overcome her past is one of the greatest things in this book. The fact that she always puts herself, her adventures, her needs, and wants first is so admirable and so important to see. Yet, seeing her struggle with being able to love and being able to be vulnerable is something I haven't got words for. Delilah Bard is so important to me. She is truly a 10 out of 10 character. “People could only hurt you if you cared enough to let them.” Also, the opening scene in this book? Holy shit. One of the best I've ever read. I actually was unsure of what I was going to start in April, so I took like five books off my bookshelves and figured I'd read the first chapter of each and see what interested me the most. I started with this book, and I never picked up another, because this opening chapter was so freakin' outstanding! Thank you, Delilah Bard!And now I feel bad because I didn't write anything about our main protagonist, Kell, but he's a little cinnamon roll, too! I live for his brooding moments, and the amazing banter between him and Rhy! And the angst between him and Alucard was everything I could have ever asked for in a protective big brother! Seriously, I loved that backstory! I also love seeing Kell actually just enjoying life, even though those moments are few and far between. As much as I love this quartet of characters, I'll be honest, nothing really happened in most of this book. The pacing didn't feel slow, because, like I've said 100 times, the characters grow and develop a lot, but the events in between leave a lot to be desired. The start and the end of this book were action packed, tense, and completely amazing, but the middle of the story was very uneventful, even with a big tournament happening. I for sure wouldn't recommend this for people who don't like very character driven stories. But if you do like character driven stories, this book is home to four amazing ones! I do plan on reading A Conjuring of Light very soon, because I have to know how this series wraps up! Hopefully it wraps up into two relationships, because my heart can't deal with any other outcome. Blog | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Twitch
2537709317	“After all, you can kill people, you cannot kill magic.” Well I thoroughly enjoyed this second instalment of the shades of magic series, it didn’t quite wow me as much as book 1 did, and there were a few times where you could see the authors opinions/views coming through the writing which I didn’t think was necessary. But in the grand scheme of things, a good read. Lila and Kell are pretty much leading separate lives for a good 300 pages, and I enjoyed following them both to see when they’d finally notice one another. We witness the Elemental Games, a sporting event where magicians from across Red London’s empire compete against one another. I loved meeting Rhy again and new characters too, in particular Alucard Emery.There were plenty of shocks and a twist that kept my interest so I will definitely be ordering the final book.
1260747812	*Re-read* And then in the silence, he heard a sound: not a sob, or a scream, but a laugh.And it took him a moment to recognize the voice.It was his. 2016 has by far been one of my most rewarding reading years yet, beginning with almost 90% win and so little loss. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: I’ve taken what I’ve learned and I have applied it to almost every book I might read, making it extremely easy to see what might work for me…and what won’t. It’s not a fool proof system, I’ll admit, but it certainly makes it easier when there is a bad book thrown in here or there. It’s not near as annoying as when I consistently am reading crap. But, with all this epicness so early in the year, there are also some fears arising, as well…and that’s if I can keep up all this win-It’s a long year, and there’s still a lot of disappointment to be had (Like a couple ends to a few of my favorite series that fell flat, unfortunately). But one thing is an absolute certainty: In a sea of losers, when it comes to second books in series and such, I never had any doubt about how amazing the Darker Shade second book would be….and I have no doubt that the end will take my breath away. But he’d missed her, and with the city so overrun, how was he supposed to find her again?Just follow the knives, said a voice in his head. And the bodies they’re lodged in. I have this curse, you see, where I HATE second books-almost always. I will admit that that’s began to change as of late, but I still find that a few eek in here and there. More often than not, though, it seems the third and final books have been the largest problem: Lack of execution, not tying things up, changing the whole premise of the story, changing characters, etc. etc.-And it has been a large disappointment, more often than not. It’s starting to make the second book curse look tame!! But no, when I picked this book up, I immediately felt my weary muscles relax, my mood lighten, and my heart begin to beat faster and faster. Dangerous.Reckless.Foolish.Mad. It doesn’t matter that this fell into one of my least favorite second book tropes (was it a trope, though?? It was kind of a choice?), because every sentence, every page, every little thing was written so beautifully and made it so you couldn’t help to read one more page, one more chapter…and then, before you knew it, you were ten more percent in and still couldn’t stop. Lila stopped drawing her finger through the cider, and no one noticed that the spilled liquid kept moving, tracing patterns across the wood. Someone set a fresh drink in front of her.Alucard was calling for attention.“To London,” he said, raising his glass.Lila raised her own.“To London,” she said, smiling like a knife. These characters just have a way about them. It’s not so much that they are different from other characters we love, adore, cherish, admire, obsess about-No, it’s not that. It’s something in their chemistry, in their DNA, something that, immediately upon meeting them, crawled under your skin without you even realizing it. It's something that made you think about them long after you had closed the book. It's something that had you thinking about them in the dark, longing for more of their adventure deep into the night. You just have this deeper understanding of them….and yet you still want to know more. He didn’t have anything on his person, and they wouldn’t be able to find anything in his coat, not unless he wanted it to be found. He sometimes worried that the coat had a mind of its own. The only other person who’d ever managed to find what they wanted in its pockets was Lila. He’d never found out how she’d done that. Traitorous coat. I can’t even begin to explain how much I adore this story, for I can’t think of many books where something I hate becomes a giggle fest for me. A sleight of hand. A shadow in the corner. A lingering thought. A hopeless wish, or maybe even a longing so deep they saw each other everywhere-it’s the simplest thing, yet it gets under your skin and becomes a part of you. I adore these characters so intensely that it became a visceral thing when one of them would hurt, when one of them would cry, when one of them was in absolute pain. And I know you all probably think it’s all Kell and all Lila…but it’s not-Not even close. As a thief in the night, Lila Bard knew that staying out of the light was the surest way to stay alive, but she couldn’t help it, she relished this kind of trick. Standing right in front of a mark while you pocketed their coins. Smiling while you stole. Looking them in the eye and daring them to see past the ruse. Because the best tricks were the ones pulled off not while the mark’s back was turned, but while they were watching. There’s Rhy. There’s Alucard. There’s Calla. And, ya know, there’s Lila’s crew…but that’s beside the point-YOU GET THE PICTURE. Rhy and Alucard became two characters who I couldn’t live without, simply because they meant the world to my lovely Kell and my fierce Lila-they were central to the story and not only added to it, but enhanced every single scene. They brought forth extreme visceral, intense emotion that caused the most amazing feelings-Pain, heartache. Soul-crushing love. Unyielding friendship. Loyalty….Jealousy. Like I said, there really is no emotion I haven’t felt while reading this series, and I can’t help but to want to re-read it already. In fact, I could read these two books over and over and over again. But I’m at work (SHHHHH, my laptop has gone to SHIT) and I can’t keep going on and on and on and…..yeah, I love this story, this could go on for a while. So! I will get onto what I want to anyway: My two beautiful lovebirds, Kell and Lila. I am Delilah Bard, she thought. Pirate, thief, magician.Her fingertips began to thrum.I have crossed worlds and taken ships. Fought queens and saved cities.Her bones shuddered and her blood raced.I am one of a kind. Lila is a stubborn little shit, I’ll admit, especially in this one, but she is so damn loyal, fierce, and she has a thirst for life I can’t help but to admire. She longs to see the world, and she is finally seeing it…but she can’t help but to think back to the boy with one beautiful eye and one black, his face set in a perpetual frown with a little crease between his brows (Hey, I didn’t say Lila was the only one who loved him….). And what better way to see him than to compete in the Essen Tasch…a deadly competition showcasing magic from some of the most skilled magicians in their world-Something so dangerous only Lila would find a way into it. “What brings you to my room?” he asked, relief bleeding into annoyance. “Adventure. Intrigue. Brotherly concern. Or,” continued the prince lazily, “perhaps I’m just giving your mirror something to look at besides your constant pout.”Kell frowned, and Rhy smiled. “Ah, there it is! That famous scowl.”“I don’t scowl,” grumbled Kell. And then my Kell…my darling Kell. This book was hard for him, in more ways than one. He is lonely. He is tortured from the events in the previous installment (subtly so, but still there). He has a restlessness inside him that is unparalleled to anything he has ever felt before. And, now more than ever, he feels like he doesn’t belong with the family he was brought into…only Rhy makes him feel as he always has-Like a brother. They love each other so intensely, and it is beautiful to see-and then I just love their banter….it keeps Kell grounded and gives Rhy joy to make the forever frowning Kell smile or laugh. “How subtle,” said Kell tonelessly.“You could at least pretend to be grateful.”“And you couldn’t have picked something a little more…I don’t know…imposing? A serpent? A great beast? A bird of prey?”“A bloody handprint?” retorted Rhy. “Oh, what about a glowing black eye?”Kell glowered. But my point in saying all that is he and Rhy are closer than ever *insert eye brow raise here* but there is something darker inside them, something that makes it harder to be who they once were. They feel the gravity of it weighing them down each passing day-They are beginning to feel suffocated and have no way to release it. But Kell would do literally anything for his brother, something we saw many times in the last book, but we now see that Rhy would do the same…and it warmed my soul. He tipped his chin up so the men could see his eyes, and took a measure of grim satisfaction as the color bled from their faces. And then footsteps sounded, and Kell turned to find more men pouring into the alley. Drunk and angry and armed. Something stirred in him.His heart raced, and magic surged through his veins. He felt something on his face, and it took him a moment to realize he was smiling. It was so hard to see how deeply Kell’s loneliness went, how it effected him every moment of every day…and how he buried it deep within himself so he could continue to help his brother. But when his brother comes to him with a proposition so dangerous, so deadly, so…..exciting, Kell can’t help but to consider it. He’s an Antari…so he can’t compete…but will they find a way around that loophole?? And, most importantly, why can’t he stop thinking about his sharp-edged girl with two differently shaded brown eyes with a knack for knives, thievery, and trouble…and why does he see her in every little person, shadow, and alley? “Hello,” said Lila.“Hello,” said Kell. “Where have you been?”Lila smirked. “Why, did you miss me?”Kell opened his mouth. Closed it. Opened it again before finally managing to answer, “Yes.” This story was naturally made for me, what with all the danger, the peril, the competition, the friendship, passion, and loyalty. I loved the pulse-pounding ending and this whole story, really, but the first admittedly holds my heart, if I’m being honest. I just wanted people to know-the first may not be everyone’s favorite-but it’s mine *shrugs* I can’t help it!!! I just adore first books SO MUCH!!! But, more than that, Kell makes this series for me. I love the writing, the atmosphere, everything about it….but Kell keeps me coming back because I adore every little thing about him. He would do anything for his brother Rhy….but he would for Lila, too. He’d risk his life a million times over for them, and my heart swells even now as I type this out. He has my heart, and so does this series. I know I will surely die of anticipation before February 2017….but it will be completely worth the wait. And I know a certain Snake will be more than happy to finish this adventure with me. KELL!! ♥ For more of my reviews, please visit: **********************My feels for this series in GIF form... OMGGGGG MY POOR BOOOY!!!!! I just love this series and Kell so so much! What a cruel thing to have to wait until 2017 for the finale to this absolutely breathtaking, soul-crushing, heartbreaking series. I can't believe this series has reached me on such a deep, emotional level, but it has...I am completely obsessed with it. From it's characters to the setting to the intricate plot, there isn't a moment in either book where I haven't loved and adored it. These characters have such loyalty, such deep, heart-felt connections to those surrounding them-you just can't help but get sucked into the magic that is this world.I cannot WAIT to write a review for book two of one of my favorite series EVER!!! :PRTC (I WILL DO THIS)For more of my reviews, please visit:
3207526045	Z wielkim bólem ale 3.5 Dobrze było wrócić do tego świata, który jest absolutnie genialny, natomiast fabularnie - eh, gorzej. Kilka dosc dużych nielogiczności i absurdów, o których opowiem niżej w spojlerach, poza tym bardzo wolno cała historia się rozkręcała. Tak naprawde pierwsze trzysta stron to tylko wprowadzenie - i o ile generalnie nie mam nic przeciwko temu, to jednak w drugim tomie serii chciałabym nieco więcej... mięsa. SPOJLERY Sam fakt, ze Lila wzięła udział w tym nieszczęsnym turnieju jest absurdalny. Bardzo wyraźnie było mówione, że pomimo tego ze jakąś tam moc posiada, nie przychodzi jej to łatwo i musi bardzo się starać. A tutaj nagle, po trzech miesiącach pokonuje praktycznie wszystkich swoich przeciwników (w tym Kella) którzy są przecież świetnymi magami od lat. Zachowanie Kella tez jest powiedziałabym.... interesująco abstrakcyjne. Końcowa scena, to ze on w ogole dobrowolnie poszedł za Ojką do białego Londynu wiedząc ze nic to dobrego nie może przynieść - rozumiem ze był zmeczony i chciał uciec, ale sorry, biały Londyn to raczej nie jest miejsce które myślący człowiek (szczególnie tak inteligentny) by wybrał. Można mieć dosc, ale nie aż tak, a świadomie naraził Rhya na cierpienie i niebezpieczeństwo. Nie trafia to do mnie zupełnie.Czekałam na to tak długo i niestety nieco się zawiodłam. Hollanda tez miałam nadzieje widzieć więcej :( Ale jego wątek i jego dylematy mi się podobały. Wiec chociaż tyle, szkoda ze tak krótko
2092530260	THAT ENDING THO!! Let’s just say I do not envy the people that read this before the third book was out “I want to live, but getting close to death is the only way to feel alive. And once you do, it makes you realize that everything you were doing before wasn’t actually living”This book was pretty much the calm before the storm so it was mostly slow. Mostly, this book is about the Essen Tasch(which is like the Olympics for magicians). Various people from the different empires come together for competitions and celebrations and it is being held in Red London. Meanwhile, something sketchy is going on in White London. This book begins 4 months after the events of A darker shade of magic. We are introduced to Lila who has joined a ship’s crew and a bunch of new characters which includes Alucard the charming Captain of the ship. We also get to see Kell and Rhy handling the repercussions of Kell’s decision in ADSOM.What I liked - Rhy has his own POV. I LOVE HIM and was happy that he was shown more in this- More Magic: Through the games, we get to see various magicians display their powers- Rhy and Kell: I just love their bond and how they would do anything for each other!!- The introduction of charming new characters such as Alucard and HastraWhat I did not like- The book was on the slow side until it got closer to the end. There was a reveal at some point in the beginning but I already guessed it so I was not really surprised.- There were some side plots that I found to be irrelevant and I think made the book longer than necessaryLila was someone I wanted to love but I found her frustrating. She was arrogant and selfish. I only tolerate her because of Kell tbh. I did see a little character development though which I liked“But when it came to Kell, there was a debt. A bond. Different from the one that bound him and Rhy, but just as solid”Overall I really enjoyed this book 💕
3864133608	“Everyone thinks I have a death wish, you know? But I don't want to die - dying is easy. No, I want to live, but getting close to death is the only way to feel alive. And once you do, it makes you realize that everything you were actually doing before wasn't actually living. It was just making do. Call me crazy, but I think we do the best living when the stakes are high.” “Everyone’s immortal until they’re not.” A gathering of shadows is the second book in the a darker shade of magic triology by Ve. Schwab. I readed a darker shade of magic in the begining of feb and i really enjoyed it but felt like i needed a bit more of everything. Of the charracters , the world , the dymanics between the charracters etc. and ohmygod a gathering of shadows definitly delivered everything i wanted and i really loved this book This book is for the first 50 precent a bit on the slow side and is more charracter focused. It follows the charracters and how they cope with the things that happend in a darker shade of magic. I personally did not mind this at all because i mostly love charracter driven parts in books if i like the charracters. I loved how we saw them coping with the events that have happend , how we see them struggle and all trying too figure out what their place is in this world and who they want too be in life. I also love the entire plot on this book , it got me hooked on my seat seeing how all the charracter eventually would end up together again because of the moving plot and the things that where setted in motion. We have more povs then in the previous book as we have one of a mysterious villian added and also one of rhys now yay finally my bby has a pob The second part of this book is a magic tournament and i am obsessed with these kinda plots/competitions so i loved this a lot aswell. We also explored more of the worldbuilding and different parts of it which i loved. And the dynamics in this book are just Cheff Kiss i will talk about them in the point of my revieuw dynamics but ohmygod. ve schwab really knows how too write good charracter dynamic and chemistry and BANTER. lets not forget the amazing banter this book has. Charracter talk - i love the charracters in this book , they are all morally grey and have many layers and depht and all a lot of sarcasm aka what i live for. honestly if you like sarcasm in charracter this is the triology for you. The charracter definitly shine in this book allong with the dynamic they have together as a group. all the charracters and dymanics are just beautifully woven together. Lila Bard aka badass moral grey female charracter i am in love withI have seen a lot of mixed opinions on Lila which i definitly understand as she does has the '' not like other girls vibes '' i personally dont really mind that trope as long as it doesnt has girl on girl hate because of this so in this case i didnt mind. I love Lila. I love how she wants more then a normal basic life , she wantd adventure and wants too really live not just excist which i stan. We see her struggle in this book with the longing for friendships and relationships and discovering that people arent just objects too use but that it can also give you good things in life. Lila is a bit selfish but it makes her real , she is stubborn as hell and reckless sometimes but it makes here very real. and i just stan her somuch. She is sarcastic as hell , she reminds me of nikolai x kaz brekker in female form. I also love that she is genderfluid diversity ! i love her sarcasm and her vibes. Also if she was a male charracter people probably woudnt complain about her being selfish and moral grey. Kell Maresh again such a great charracter who has many layers too him. Kell struggles in this boo kwith the fact that he feels locked inside the life he is in and the place he is in , he longs for freedom and doesnt feel content with the life he has and feels like he is in a cage. I love this sacactig grumpy [ matthias helvar vibes ] little bean and he deserves the world. i also love his dynamic with Lila and how these two charracter just really compliment eachother and bring out different sides in eachother. Kell is Lila her calmness she sometimes needs and Lila dares Kell too live and gives him the adventure he needs. perfect right ?? Rhy Maresh my bby. Rhy reminds me somuch of nikolai omg. I love the fact that we got his pov in this book and dived more in depht intoo his charracter. Rhy is very charming and sarcastic and fun and full of banter but we also see him struggeling with his life and thoughts after the events in a darker shade of magic. he feels guilt over what happend and feels drowned when he gets dark thoughts about his life and everything. He feels like he is stuck now because of what happend in a darker shade of magic. he deserves the world. please protect at all cost. These charracters are all just so amazingly morally grey and full of layers i cant < 3 its perfect. . Alucard Emery Aluard emery is a new introduced charracter in this sequel and ohmygod what an amazing add. He is a pirate king on the ships Lila has joined. but is he what he looks like? Alucard is very charming and full of banter and again has somany layers too his personality. He is haunted by his past and his family. i love the add of him too this group of charracters. We also have a very intresting villian charracter that i wont mention because of spoilers but HMM intresting and again moral grey + i loved how his povs in the end came together with the other charracters. and trough him we also saw a lot more of black London and White london. Plot + worldbuilding - as i said the plot in the first 50 precent is a little slower which can maybe bother you but i liked it a lot. we really got too know the charracters more and everything was settend up for the ending of the book and the second part of the book and the tournament. The second part with the tournament i love because i love competitions. I loved the new things we learned about the worldbuilding its truly so unique and i love it. the world + the way ve schwab writes it = just perfect in my opinion aaaah! The writing - i love ve schwab her writing , her descriptions are amazing and she can definitly write amazing charracters , banter scenes and chemistry between charracters. i really feel like i am in this world. example of beautiful description in the book - '' magic is all and none. Iy is sight , and taste , and scent , and sound , and touch , and its also something else entirely. It is the power in all powers , and at the same time . it is its own. And once you know how to sence its prescense , you will never be without it. '' Charracters dymanics Honestly aaah the dynamics in this book are just so good. i am obsessed. We have the dynamic brotherhood between Rhy and Kell which made me have tears in my eyes and choking on my laugh several times. their love for eachother is so beautiful i cant. and their banter and rhy making kell grumpy is what i live for , period. then we have the amazing chemistry between Lila and Kell they just fit so good with eachother and they ballance eachother and make eachother their best versions of themselves and again their banter is what i live for honestly i ship this so hard its not healthy and it isnt too much yet also not too little aah. I also love the friendship we have here between Alucard and Lila full of banter but also Lila getting the feeling of trust and friendship and ugh. i cant. i choked somany times of laughter because of the banter in the dymanics in this book. and i love the dymanic kell and the mysterious villian have aswell. i stan. “What brings you to my room?” he asked, relief bleeding into annoyance.“Adventure. Intrigue. Brotherly concern. Or,” continued the prince lazily, “perhaps I’m just giving your mirror something to look at besides your constant pout.”Kell frowned, and Rhy smiled. “Ah, there it is! That famous scowl.” - Rhy annoying Kell aka precious .. overall this book was for me such a good sequel and i loved everything about it. you might not love it if you hate the i am not like other girls trope and you dont like a bit of a slower charracter driven start but if you enjoyed a darker shade of magic and want more of everything like i had PICK THIS UP. you will love this. i am so excited too dive intoo the third now aaah. * internal errorr *
4041231744	✅ Characters✅ Writing✅ World-building✅ Plot ✅ Atmosphere ✅🆗 Pace ❗️❗️ Cliffhanger OMG, this ending!? 😲 I am SO GLAD that I already have the third book so I don't need to wait to know what's going to happen. Lila has been at sea for four months under the command of privateer Alucard Emery, while Rhy has been organizing the Essen Tasch, an international magical tournament, and Kell has been trying to atone for his mistakes. I honestly had no idea at first what the plot would be (besides the tournament). Many things happen at the same time in the three different Londons, and I know that it will all be connected somehow. The connection between what happens in White London and Red London is clear, but I don't know yet what part Grey London will play.There is a constant build-up all throughout the book, I was tense, I wanted to skim the pages to know what would happen, but it was SO GOOD at the same time. At first, it was the reunion between Lila and Kell, I couldn't wait for them to see each other again, and every time I thought they were finally going to run into each other, something else happened. Then there was the Essen Tasch which was also stressful because neither Kell nor Lila was supposed to be there. And then there is the end. O.M.G. My heart was pounding, I just can't wait to start the third book. I don't know how readers who read this book when it came out survived the wait for the last book.Even though the bigger plot didn't progress that much in the book, the characters and the world-building are so great that I don't even care. The beginning is a little slow, we mostly get to see how the characters are adjusting in the aftermath of the whole crisis that was the first book, and where they're at now, but so many things happen after the first third! I enjoyed this book so much! I am Delilah Bard, she thought, as the ropes cut into her skin. I am a thief and a pirate and a traveler. I have set foot in three different worlds and lived. I have shed the blood of royals and held magic in my hands. Delilah Bard continues to be amazing. She is strong, bold, reckless, and does not always think things through, but I adore her. She changes in this book, and she learns that friendship, or any sort of emotional attachment, might not be as bad as she thought. That having people that you care about, and who care about you is not only a weakness to use against you, it is first and foremost a strength because it means that they will stand by you and have your back. “Oh yes, your relationship with Miss Bard is positively ordinary.""Be quiet.""Crossing worlds, killing royals, saving cities. The marks of every good courtship.” And her reunion with Kell!!!! I'd been waiting for it since the first page of this book! “Kell has only two faces. The one he wears for the world at large, and the one he wears for those he loves.” He sipped his wine.“For us.” Lila’s expression hardened. “Whatever he feels for me, it isn’t love.”“Because it isn’t soft and sweet and doting?” Rhy rocked back, stretching against the pillar. “Do you know how many times he’s nearly beat me senseless out of love? How many times I’ve done the same? I’ve seen the way he looks at those he hates …” He shook his head. “There are very few things my brother cares about, and even fewer people.”“I brought your son back from the dead!" shouted Kell, lunging to his feet."I did it knowing it would bind our lives, knowing what it would mean for me, what I would become, knowing that the resurrection of his life would mean the end of mine, and I did it anyway, because he is my brother and your son and the future king of Arnes." Kell gasped for breath, tears streaming down his face "What more could I possibly do?” My poor sweet Kell❤️ He is probably one of my all-time favorite characters with his sweet side and his cold side, his legendary frown, his magical coat, his recklessness, and all his hurting emotions that he keeps hidden inside. He was hurting so much in this book because no matter how much he tries to apologize and atone, the King and Queen can't seem to forgive him and continue to treat him as a traitor that can't be trusted. I felt his anger, his sadness, and his despair, and part of me wished that he would just tell the King and Queen to screw themselves and leave. (view spoiler)[Well, he kind of did tell the King to screw himself, and it was so satisfying. (hide spoiler)] He needs to be okay at the end of this series or I will cry. And riot. But mostly cry. The prince shrugged. “Who needs magic when you look this good?”“What brings you to my room?” he asked, relief bleeding into annoyance.“Adventure. Intrigue. Brotherly concern. Or,” continued the prince lazily, “perhaps I’m just giving your mirror something to look at besides your constant pout.”Kell frowned, and Rhy smiled. “Ah, there it is! That famous scowl.” Rhy is more complex than I thought (and I love it!). He is more important in this book, and we get to know him more intimately, and he is actually quite interesting. He is more than just a goofy prince only thinking about being charming and having fun at parties. I hope everything will be fine for him and that he will get his happy ending because he seemed so sad in this book, it broke my heart a little bit. I wanted to hug him every time we saw how he was carrying his guilt around and was trying so hard to feel and be worthy of his title. His interactions with Kell are the sweetest. Their relationship is so strong and perfect, and amazing, it makes me want to cry when I see how much they love each other, and how they would do anything for each other. “My father was a vulture. My mother was a magpie. My oldest brother is a crow. My sister, a sparrow. I have never really been a bird."Lila resisted the urge to say he might have been a peacock. It didn't seem the time.”“She straightened. “You tried to seduce me, for information.”“You can’t hold that against me forever.”“It was last night.”“Well I was running out of options, and I figured it was worth a shot.”Lila rolled her eyes. “You really know how to make a girl feel special.” Alucard. Do I really need to say anything more than a sassy, charming, and sexy privateer? Of course, I fell in love with him! How could I resist this perfect combination? He is roguish and mysterious, and I need more of him! I really hope that we will see more scenes with Rhy, Alucard, Lila, and Kell in the next book. I want more of their group dynamic. I was expecting and hoping to see more of Holland honestly. I really like his complexity in the first book, and I liked how he was a mysterious and morally grey character forced that appeared to be a villain, but was a "prisoner" in reality. Sadly, he is not much present in this book, and the little I saw of him didn't satisfy me. I still really like him, but I was hoping to fall in love with his character in this book, and it didn't happen. I am sure that we will see more of him in the final book though, and I am very happy about it. “Whatever I am, let it be enough” (view spoiler)[By the way, we all knew since that moment in the first book where it is mentioned that she has a glass eye that she was an Antari. I'm not the only one who made that connection right? (hide spoiler)]1. A Darker Shade of Magic ⭐⭐⭐⭐.5Follow me on Instagram 🙂
4214150146	~ 2 stars ~This suffers severely from middle book syndrome and I am so disappointed. I mean, this has pirates, what could have gone so wrong? But I was bored out of my mind and simply wasn't interested at all for the majority of this. Lila and Kell don't reunite until past the 400 page mark, which is absolutely absurd and a big reason for my disinterest in what was going on. For me, the dynamic between the two was a part of the reason why I liked A Darker Shade of Magic. Sure it isn't extraordinary or revolutionary, and their romance is pitiful to say the least, but their interactions are entertaining. I additionally thought that the conflict was weak if I'm being honest. It didn't feel like there was some looming threat or obvious problem until the end of the book. The magic tournament and practically everything else that happened over the span of this book felt like filler content. It felt irrelevant to the story. As far as the characters go, I am so frustrated. I loved Lila Bard in the first book, but never has a character fell so far from grace. What made her so likable in the first book was disregarded in order to make her a typical YA protagonist. She gained a bunch of powers and it emphasized constantly how special and different she was, and it annoyed me to no extent. I also didn't like Rhy. He's very immature and I don't care for that at all. My opinions on Kell from the first book have not changed, I still like him I guess. Though he did occasionally irritate me. Ojka is a pretty shallow character, she's just kind of there and easy to forget which is disappointing because I do see potential. Alucard is just a wannabe Nikolai Lantsov. He is a character that I could not care less about and found it extremely hard to connect to him. He had too much page time. On the other hand, I wish Holland was more involved and had a bigger role to play, as I do think he is one of the more intriguing characters in this series. Overall, I did not have a good experience with this book. But the only thing keeping me from hating it is the writing style which I still do enjoy, and the fact that the last part of this book was actually decent. I'm curious to see how the next book is, though I can't say I am optimistic. credit
3576151661	“Magic is all and none. It’s sight and taste, and scent, and sound, and touch, and it’s something else entirely. It is the power in all powers, and at the same time, it is its own. And once you know how to sense its presence, you will never be without it.”This book was great! This was a dark and exciting fantasy about power, bravery, family, magic, finding power within yourself and love. A Gathering of shadows continues where the first book ended and follows Kell as he recovers from the first book and discovers new challenges. Lila meets new friends on her journey, all the while a magic game begins in which magicians from all over the world compete.I was transported into this magical and dark world from the beginning. The pacing was well done, although it was a bit slow in the middle of the book. The plot was engaging and the magical competition was exciting. The writing was descriptive and engaging, I felt like I experienced every event that the characters did and felt every emotion that they did. The world building was excellent, the author created a unique history and language that made the world complex and unique. I loved learning about the types of elements that the magicians can use including fire, earth, water, as well as using spells. The author spent a great deal of time creating complex characters that each have their own experiences, thoughts and challenges. I loved Lila even more in this book, she is brave, strong, resilient, fierce, head strong and doesn't give up when she sets her mind to something. I enjoyed seeing Lila continue to develop as she finds her own strength and discovers the power in herself. I can relate to Lila because I'm resilient and I never give up. I also loved Kell, he is strong, powerful, determined, protective, brave, and will do anything for the people he loves. Kell's character has developed in many ways, he is even more determined to look after the people he loves, but at the same time he is feeling trapped. The author did a great job illustrating Kell's feelings and how he has become overwhelmed. I really like Kells's brother Rhy, he is charming, funny, protective, smart, bold, brave, and will do anything for Kell. I enjoyed seeing more of Rhy in this book and learning more about his feelings. I liked the side characters especially Alucard and Tieren. The banter between Kell and Lila was great. The ending was exciting and engaging. I can't wait to read the next book. I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy, magic, awesome characters, and great world building.
1559469393	PRE-READING: I know I'm already currently reading two books, but we're talking about the sequel to A Darker Shade of Magic and the umpteenth buddy read with Nina. I dare you to say no to that.4.5"Crossing worlds, killing royals, saving cities. The marks of every good courtship."Have you tried to read this book aloud?Sorry, that sounds foolish, of course. I will reformulate:Have you tried to read even just one of Victoria Schwab's sentences aloud?If you have and now are reading this, that logically leads me to the conclusion that, at some point, you have also been able to stop. I congratulate on your fortitude.If you have not, then I will have a harder time trying to let you see why this book, just as A Darker Shade of Magic did before it, enchants and bewitches and appeals to me so much, but I am believer, and so I will try.•The writing. As I pointed out my review to A Darker Shade of Magic, I don't believe in such a thing as perfection when words are concerned. Because words are slippery things; the harder you try to get hold of them, the easier for them to slide out of your grip. They are fish one moment, lions the next one. They are air when they want to be subtle, smoke when their aim is to dazzle you and fluster you, just slightly, but enough to throw you off balance. But when they mean business? When they are, each one, into their designed place, one after the other, smooth, just ruffled enough to seem easy and natural and yet you know, you know that they are not, that it was all planned, that what you're seeing is just the actualization of a blueprint that had been set down in black and white beforehand? That is when they are fire.As I said, I do not believe in perfection.But Schwab's pen is one of the closest things I have ever seen to it."Kell would say it was impossible. What a useless word, in a world with magic."•It's no secret that this world(s) mesmerises me, and the reason is fundamentally one: magic. Here, magic is a living being, not an it, but a he or a she. And she (in my native tongue it's la magia, feminine noun; indulge me) demands to be acknowledged as such: she has needs and wishes, she requires a care made of both tenderness and firmness, and she retaliates when her expectations are not met. I am irremediably fond of this approach to magic, to the point where I should maybe say she is my favourite character.•Except that, I loved all the other characters just as much. "Standing there on display was painful enough. Now came the truly unfortunate task of socializing."Again, the core reason of my infatuation (love, god, this is love) can be condensed in a very simple concept: they are real. They are ink and paper made flesh and bone, mind and blood. Quality that, in my opinion, is strictly linked with the inconceivably high quality of the writing.•Kell is all my heart can ask for: invincible magician, heart of gold, brow perpetually furrowed. I utterly adored the new depth the author gives to his relationship with Rhy, and with this book also the younger prince officially grew on me.Back to Kell, I was disappointed only by (view spoiler)[the ending: I found too abrupt, unjustified and foolish his choice to follow Ojka, who he had never met before that moment and who, besides, looked everything but trustworthy. Not as much as to call it an out-of-character behaviour, probably, but it really felt off (hide spoiler)].•Lila is a different matter altogether. I love her badassery and always will, I love her fierceness and always will, and I love the fact that she chases adventures for the mere thrill of it; but I think that in this instalment she throws herself in impossible disasters for no reason at all. She could have ruined the life of an innocent man simply because he had something that he wanted and she could. She keeps being reckless and tough, just as the Lila I loved in book one, but now it feels like she is simply having fun at the expense of whoever is on her way, and I don't completely agree with this couldn't-care-less attitude."She bent most of the rules. She broke the rest."•At last Alucard, oh Alucard, who is probably the quickest crush I have ever developed in my life. And, let me say it, the ship is sailing (the pun, please notice the pun). (view spoiler)[I haven't read a scene this hot in months. Months. I think I reread it at least five times. They are wonderful and I want them together at all costs (hide spoiler)]."Fix your crown, my prince," he called back as he reached the door. "It's crooked."In a nutshell: I loved A Gathering of Shadows as much as I loved A Darker Shade of Magic, but for different reasons: the latter is more striking for the writing (even more than this one, and you saw how much I loved the writing in this one so just imagine) and the world-building, though only because because we get to see more of all three -and have also a glimpse of the fourth- Londons, while the former is more compelling and well-balanced when it comes to the story and the pace. The only problem is that cliffhanger.Yeah I know.Cliffhanger. Argh.
1565759764	“She bent most of the rules. She broke the rest.” 5 stars just don't seem enough!This is the kind of book that will give you a hangover. Full review to come... maybe. I don't know how to review this, it was so magical. It's been a while since i've enjoyed a book this much. “Kell used to feel like a possession. Now he felt like a prisoner.” THAT ENDING THO!! You know how i put "unpopular opinion alert" next to my name? Well, it's because of books like this. I loved the ending!!! It made me love Delilah even more than i already do! “I am a thief and a pirate and a traveler. I have set foot in three different worlds, and lived. I have shed the blood of royals and held magic in my hands.” Kell, Rhy and Alucard!!!!Ahh i can't wait for the next book. <<< Might have spoilers of the first book >>> You know that big bad bitch from Black London, can he please kill the Red king and his queen? I fucking hate them! The way they treat Kell ..!! They better die soon, I'm so fucking sick of them. "Fix your crown, my prince. It's crooked." -^^Holly fucking shit!!! What The hell did just happen? Why don't i ever see these things coming? Ahhh! *Blush*"'Crossing worlds, killing royals, saving cities. The mark of a very good courtship.' (Rhy)'We weren't courting.' Snapped Kell. 'In case you forgot, she left.'He didn't mean to sound so wounded."-I thought Alucard was going to ignore her completely, but instead they have this deep conversation."What are you supposed to be?" She asked. "A fish?""Obviously," Alucard said, "i'm a dragon.""Wouldn't it make more sense for you to be a fish?" Challenged Lila. "After all, you do live on the sea, and you are rather slippery, and . . ""I'm a dragon," he interjected. "You are just not being very imaginative."^^Lmao, so stupid these two are! *says in the most affectionate tone*-Can we just all agree that Lila and Alucard are horrible people! But they make an immensely entertaining team. Such exclusive characters this book has! -I love Jinnar already! Love his name! I like his element. His physical discrpition had me like, WOW!! The whole conversation between him and Alucard was very amusing. I was dying laughing the whole time. The very first thing Alucard says to him is;"They let you out in public?" LOL-I freaking adore Hastra (Kell's "very handsome" guard.) He is so cute, and funny. The other one I don't like, though i do feel bad for him. :("'You know, if you can rule half as well as you can lie, you're going to make an incredible King.' (Kell)Rhy's smile was a dazzling thing. 'Thank you.'"-Okay, fine, I admit, Rhy is growing on me. " '. . but your features are unique.''Why are you calling me ugly?' (Kell)Rhy snorted. 'We both know you're the prettiest boy at the ball.'"-^^Lmao, i love this!!-If Kell gets caught, they are both so dead! I'm a little scared but excited. #livedangerously -I'm not the most romantic person on the this earth, but it irritates me when my main characters get separated! Gahhh!-Why does Ojka remind me of Manon Blackbeak?You know when you are starving and you only have a little bit of food, even though you want to just devour it in one bite, you try to make it last as long as you can? That's me right now with this book. I'll drag it as long as it's possible!
2408429560	I actually think The Graces by Laure Eve, a YA novel which receives horrible rating on GR, is actually a better reading material than A Darker Shade of Magic , the prequel of A Gathering of Shadows.Let's hope I will have better luck this time.What I learnt from reading YA novels: every 'badass' YA girl needs to be a pirate, a hacker, a rebel or an outlaw. you know, girls with lawful and regular jobs are so, so uncool. I am looking right at you, Lila.Okay...I know this novel is supposed to be a fantasy novel for adults, but I can't shake off the feeling that every main characters are way too juvenile to match up with this 'adult fantasy' setting.Again I need to go back to the problem with Lila, if this Lila girl (who behaved like a 12 years old kid bragging about her pirate custom instead of a 16 years old in the first book) talks one more time about how she is 'so good at it' and how 'she is one of a kind' and how 'her name is Delilah Bard', I am going to throw this book across the room!Also, a question to fellow readers: Did Kell offer Lila money or chance of employment as reward for her service by the end of book 1? I vaguely remember Lila was gifted with some money but the rest I can't remember very clearly. The point is, why would Kell let loose a known thief to his world without offering her some chance to reform? What was he thinking?However, if Kell had made an offer but Lila turned it down in order to go on her 'adventure' of being a pirate (you know, pirates, those bad guys who rob and kill people at sea for a living), then Lila you are just a piece of human trash in my eyes.Update: now it's official, Delilah Bard is a piece of morally bankrupted human trash disguising as a 'strong female character':Look, see. I can understand people doing awful things when their lives depend on it, I can be compassionate when people are forced to do cruel things when they have no other choice. But it isn't the case when Lila (view spoiler)[killed (in cold blood and with obviously no remorse) a man who had never done anything to her in order to take his place in a magical contest (hide spoiler)], my understanding reaches the fucking limitation and all I want to do is to smash her skull in for what she had done.In order not to fall right into this 'strong female character' trap, all of us have to remember one important thing: killing people doesn't make you strong, plus a lot of women (and men) in reality suffered a great deal in their lives but they didn't degrade themselves into becoming some murderous sociopaths. Case closed.And...what's the matter with you, Kell!? In the first book he is this brooding YA guy who sits around and broods just because...you know...brooding guys are sexy...or something. Then in this book, after disobeying his adoptive parents (a.k.a the king and the queen), after enabling a certain pair of evil twin to launch an attack against Red London, resulting in the death of god-know how many innocent citizens, now the king and queen can't trust Kell anymore and put him under surveillance(for good), then......Kell is upset about being treated like this?Honestly, Alucard Emery is the only somewhat-interesting character in the story, even though I suspect his namesake is a ripoff from the Alucard, of the Hellsing manga/anime series However, due to the fact that I just can't put up with Lila so I had to skim almost every chapter with her in it, so I don't get a closer look at Alucard's story anyway.Oh...and Alucard's vaguely-hinted-at-romance with Rhy is interesting too...although we only get one scene of their interacting, this Alucard/Rhy scene successfully beat whatever LGTB romance Leigh Bardugo had tried to add in her Six of Crows series.However, back off Alucard! Rhy is his own person, he isn't yours!Now, I need to get to this book's greatest crime: it is very boring! First we get to go along with the main characters going through the aftermath of the attack from the first book, but the problem is...these people are dealing with this aftermath and their internal struggles for the total of first 300 pages of this book (I'm looking right at you Kell, and your stupid angst issues), and when the magical contest finally takes place, it's rather brief, rushed and unexciting. How sad!I mean, if you happened to like seeing Kell brooding around some more, if you were interested in seeing Prince Rhy ranting about his life being saved (plus can he be more of a bisexual stereotype as a bi young man who would flirt with everything that moves!?) if you could suffer through Lila's self-importance and annoying, cocky, childish attitude for the total of a 500+ pages book, you might be okay with this book.The climax is a bit of a letdown as well, (view spoiler)[ as expected Kell is easily tricked and brought before Holland, but.........somehow the evil being from Black London just won't bother to take over Kell's body!? What's going on here? (hide spoiler)]Last but not least, I feel bad that the most interesting characters, (view spoiler)[Holland and Ojka (hide spoiler)], only get to show up a bit for the whole book. How sad!My review for the sequel: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2974473225	3.75
1524121427	Wow Wow WowYep, it's going to be one of those reviews. A review where the reviewer just can't find the right words to gush over the brilliant novel, get enthused over all the new twists and turns that Lila and Kell have undergone, or how much the reviewer wants to tear something apart over the damn cliffhanger.That's right. Cliffhanger. God Damn It. And it's good. Real good.That's not to say that the novel isn't fully self-sufficient and glorious and exciting and full of better magic than even the first in the series, because it is.I loved the first novel. But I UBER-loved this one. The transition is perfect and perfectly reasonable and lets me get a real gush on over Lila. She's still the same spitfire, but this time she's a LOT more dangerous. And she's also a big sweetie. Kell has it bad in so many ways, and I truly sympathize with him. His problems aren't so easily fixed by making a few hard decisions or being more understanding. He's doing the best he can, I love him for it. The fact that these two have one of the best slow-burns going on that I've ever read, and I've read a good number of great slow-burns, is only spice to the great raging fire of magic pouring out of these books.Did I mention that there was great magic?That there's some of the best magic action scenes in the business in these novels? That it follows Sanderson's Law down to the letter? That one of the main characters we get to know and love is called Alucard and one of the pirate's mates is Stross? Yeah, I got a huge kick out of both of these names, too, but no, Alucard isn't a vampire. :) No Dracula, sorry.Sure, there's a few old funhouse tropes like pirates and tournaments, but the best thing about the book is the characters, the panache of the writing, and the perfect pacing.Am I a fanboy forever? Won over?Yep. It looks like it. :) I caught myself several times trying to actively stretch out the story, praying that it would never end, and of course, when it did, as it did, I wanted to rage and scream and spit.I didn't do those things, of course, although, it was a very near thing. ;)
2723353911	“You know,” he said, taking up the mask, “if you can rule half as well as you can lie, you’re going to make an incredible king.” My tongue is tied, my brain is scrambled, and my heart is betrayed.I’m left robbed of proper words; V.E. Schwab creates prose and weaves words unlike anyone else. When accounting for creativity, characterization and craft, this is to me one of the greatest fantasy series out there.The characters in A Gathering of Shadows are something else, growing even better since book one. Between vicious antagonists, vibrant romance, heartwarming friendships and unbreakable sibling bonds, I couldn’t possibly ask for more. There aren’t sufficient words to articulate how dearly I hold this cast of characters to my heart. (And Alucard finally being introduced??? I love that ex-pirate, powerful magician, absolute romantic so so much) "Impossibility is a thing that begs to be disproven." What should be impossible is the way I reacted to this story upon re-read. The theme of the Essen Tasch or elemental games provided a relentless plot that is near impossible to leave behind. I found myself even more taken with this story the second time around; an impressive feat considering my longstanding love for the Shades of Magic. I’m continuously awed by the breadth of imagination that went into shaping a series this unique. For any fantasy readers out there, you should definitely give this series a try! I’m almost certain that you’ll end up having a grand time!
1605944975	I think I'll read it again because I enjoyed the first book and something happened in the second book that shocked me and made me stop reading it. But maybe I was exaggerating that problem. So I'll read it again on 2017.REVIEW TO COME TODAY.** THIS REVIEW CONTAINS MILD SPOILER ** "I do not know why you two are circling each other like stars. it is not my cosmic dance. But I do know that you come asking after one another, when only a few strides and a handful of stairs divide you." the first time I read this book was a year ago ( I guess it was a year ago ) and I didn't finish it because of something (view spoiler)[ that scene when Alucard kissed Lila and Lila kissed him back and she actually enjoyed the kiss. (hide spoiler)] but then a month ago I decided to read it again because I liked the first book so much ( here's my review about the first book) and maybe I could bear that scene because I've read quite many book since I stopped reading this book. So maybe I could tolerate that scene. so here are the reasons why I didn't like this book : The Story in my opinion the story was so boriiiiiiiiiiiing especially the Element Games. it bored me so much ( it is not a spoiler because the synopsis tells you about this ). I don't know why I didn't like the Element Games and I just didn't care about it so every time the main characters talked about it, which was very often and I was like I mean, the first book was so great and the action scenes were so AAAAAMZING and I had high expectation about this book but I didn't get what I wanted. The main characters talked so much and I desperately needed of action scenes. I NEED FIGHT SCENES. JUST ANYTHING EXCEPT TALKING. TALKING AND TALKING and to be honest, I skimmed reading it and I rarely do that. I just do that when the book is boring and I want to read it quickly so it can be over and I just wanted to finish reading it. The Pacing I love slow pacing books because that way I can get to know the characters but this book is SO SLOW and it bored me so much. I made myself to continue reading it and even when I reached page 297, the Element Games still hadn't started and I began skimmed it because I just couldn't wait anymore and I just wanted to finish it as fast as possible. So I don't know what page the Element Games is started and we suppose to feel relax and happy when we read, don't we? and mostly I felt like this when I read this book I just couldn't be patient. I just couldn't. The Characters I didn't like Lila, she was really annoying. she would do everything just to get what she wanted. I didn't have a problem if she didn't hurt anybody to get what she wanted. I don't think I felt like that toward Lila when I read the first book and how could Kell like a girl like her?! honestly, he is too good for Lila. ugh.and now about Rhy and Alucard. I don't have problem with them and Rhy is a funny guy. "Fine," said Rhy. "I'm going out. And when I'm robbed and left in an alley, you can tell our parents what happened. Don't forget to include the part where you stayed home instead of ensuring my safety."and also this Rhy leaned over. "looks like I'm not the one who needs protecting after all. You know ..." He sipped his wine. "it would be an interesting match...."Kell kept his smile fixed. "I will stab you with this pin.""You would suffer.""it would be worth-" He was cut off by the approach of Lord Sol-in-Ar.I just love it when they bicker xD The Romance The romance was so boring. I kept wanting them to be together again but it took them such a long time to get together again. they got together again when I lost my interest in reading this book. ( I don't think it's a spoiler because if you've read the first book then you know that Lila left Kell and Kell saw she was leaving and she was gone to her own her)there was a time when my heart pounded so hard because I was so nervous when they were about to meet but they didn't meet instantly and I got bored and I lost my interest. (view spoiler)[ I skimmed reading it so I think I missed something about this book and I also heard that the romance between Alucard and Rhy is cute and they are cute but I don't think I can say anything about them because I skimmed reading it so I didn't read the part where they met. but I think Rhy and Alucard will be cute couple. They both are funny. (hide spoiler)] Will I Read The Next Book? I don't know. I don't think I'll read the next book because I'm not curious how the story ends and I don't really care about it anymore. I only gave this book 3 stars because I quite enjoyed reading it at the beginning and I used to like Kell so much and there was also a scene that I really liked. thank you for reading and liking this review guys. I hope you all have a great day! ❤❤❤["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1969294678	O.M.G. That ending, you guys! *realizes she doesn't own the last book yet*
1712614619	It was SOOO good! Even better than the first!
1922847929	4 StarsOverview: “The prince shrugged. “Who needs magic when you look this good?” I’m actually really surprised by how much I enjoyed this. A Darker Shade of Magic was a lot of fun, but I never really connected with any of the characters. I was more drawn in by the magic system and all the worlds.Since the base worldbuilding was already done, this allotted more time for developing and exploring the characters. And for the most part, I was really pleasantly surprised!Buddy-Read with the lovely Sana. (Who hated it with a passion, because she's like that)Pros:The writing is fantastic, as always. I really need to read more Schwab, because I love her power over words. She skillfully streams them together in a way that manages to be detailed and concise as it vividly paints the scene. Dang it why do I love Holland so much??? He’s such a doomed character, and it’s just going to end badly for me, I just know it. But there’s something incredibly compelling and sympathetic about his struggle with maintaining control. It was explored a lot with the Dane twins, but even more here. THAT ENDING. I literally kept trying to flip another page, because it didn’t make sense that things could end there. Everything that had been building all book came together in an awesome climax and I need the next book now. So I really love Alucard. Every scene he was in was just so much fun and he has such a strong, dynamic presence. I loved learning more about his character and he turned out to be completely different than I first thought. (Also I ship it with all my soul)Rhy is my precious baby and I only want good things for him, okay? I adored that there were repercussions for Kell's actions at the end of the last book. It created a really interesting dilemma and I'm so scare for how it will resolve. I love, love, love, love slow-burn books and this was the definition. I really enjoyed the character study and seeing not only how they interacted together, but how the world functioned overall. Kell really bored me for first half of this, not going to lie. BUT I was pleasantly surprised by the end when he stopped moping and finally did things. Sure, his actions maybe weren’t the most eloquent, but there was something great about seeing such a stiff character lose control. Cons:UPOPULAR OPINION TIME! I don’t like LilaI thought I did. In the first book, on that whirl-wind adventure, she seemed fun. She was interesting and I loved her thirst for adventure. But then this book started, and 75% of her dialogue was about how much she loved knives. Um, okay, I got that. Give me something more. But then I got: “Most girls covet dresses.”“I am not most girls.” Noooooooooo. Oh dear. Why?Why are there almost no girls in this book and now Lila thinking she’s so crazy special? She’s so overconfident she enters a competition when she doesn’t even take the time to learn the rules or anything about it. Then she couldn’t be bothered to listen to anyone even when they had years and years more experience than her. In the very beginning, she pulls off a long con that took her weeks to plan and think through... so how come she literally doesn’t think anything else through the entire book? Why is she magically good at everything?She just seemed to continually put herself and others in danger, and her only excuse was basically, “I DO WHAT I WANT.” I’m all with character’s having faults, but I just couldn’t get behind any of her actions here.I really like some of her quotes and outlooks on things, so I’m actually really interested in what happens to her character. I have hope. But right now all she did was drive me crazy. As much as I love the slow burn, it took forever for anything to actually happen. In Summary: A little slow, but I loved almost everything but a frustrating MC.
1450129408	OH GOSH OH GOSH OH GOSH I HAVE READ IT I AM OKAY I AM OKAY I AM OKAY I AM NOT OKAY I AM NOT OKAY I AM NOT OKAY OH GOSH AHHHHHHH.Everything hurts and I'm dying (Leslie Knope understands).***Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog***A Gathering of Shadows by V.E. SchwabBook Two of the A Darker Shade of Magic seriesPublisher: TorPublication Date: February 23, 2016Rating: 4 starsSource: ARC sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):Four months have passed since the shadow stone fell into Kell’s possession. Four months since his path crossed with Delilah Bard. Four months since Rhy was wounded and the Dane twins fell, and the stone was cast with Holland’s dying body through the rift, and into Black London.In many ways, things have almost returned to normal, though Rhy is more sober, and Kell is now plagued by his guilt. Restless, and having given up smuggling, Kell is visited by dreams of ominous magical events, waking only to think of Lila, who disappeared from the docks like she always meant to do. As Red London finalizes preparations for the Element Games—an extravagant international competition of magic, meant to entertain and keep healthy the ties between neighboring countries—a certain pirate ship draws closer, carrying old friends back into port.But while Red London is caught up in the pageantry and thrills of the Games, another London is coming back to life, and those who were thought to be forever gone have returned. After all, a shadow that was gone in the night reappears in the morning, and so it seems Black London has risen again—meaning that another London must fall. What I Liked:There is no part of me that is even the slightest bit of okay right now. Victoria Schwab, I loathe you! I mean, I adore you, but I also hate you FOR THAT ENDING! This book was all sorts of brilliant, masterfully written, and painfully cruel. How in the world will I last until February 2017 (let us HOPE and PRAY that that is the latest book three will be published). It has been four months since the ending of A Darker Shade of Magic. Lila is part of the crew of a pirate - privateer - ship, and she's slowly learning about her limits and abilities. Meanwhile, in Red London, Kell struggles with the bond with Rhy. He doesn't dare take chances, not with Rhy's life at stake. Rhy, on the other hand, overdoes everything. Rhy and Red London is preparing for the Element Games, in which Faro, Arnes, and Vesk competitors engage in a tournament meant to showcase the magical abilities of the countries in a friendly way. But another London is rising from the ashes, and no one will see the threat until it's too late.I'll admit - I really struggled with the first half of this book. I think part of me just did NOT want to read it, because I was so excited to finally be reading it. If that makes sense. I got this book months ago and couldn't crack open the review copy until now! I was so excited to finally start it and... I just couldn't. BUT. I don't think it was the book's fault, although I DO think the second half is much more interesting than the first half.We see a lot of Lila on the ship, in the first half. She's her usual thieving, troublesome self, running and running and running. Part of her wonders about Kell, but mostly she's content. She's learning about magic from the ship's Captain, Alucard Emery, who has just as many secrets as she does. Meanwhile, Kell and Rhy are getting into trouble too (mostly Rhy). Schwab REALLY digs deep into Kell's character. Kell walks on eggshells when it comes to Rhy's safety. You can clearly see how much of a toll it's taking on Kell, how withdrawn and frustrated he's become. And Lila is never far from his thoughts...The Element Games are a way of maintaining a show of peace between the the three neighboring countries of Arnes, Vesk, and Faro. Twelve magicians are entered, one of which is Captain Alucard Emery, which is how Lila ends up in London again. This book takes a while to really get going, but looking back, I think the pacing of the story was good. There's no way I would have gotten such a good read and understanding of Lila's character, and Kell's character, had the author not spent so much time crafting them in their separate worlds for so long in the first half.The second half is all about the Element Games. I will shut my mouth about the Element Games because there is so much craziness surrounding the Games! Let's just say that Lila plays a huge part in the Games, as does Kell, and Alucard. And none of them know each other in the Games (you where masks). There is this subplot in the book that is threaded throughout the story. Its chapters are never more than three or four pages long, so you could ALMOST skip them if you wanted (you should not)... so the subplot seems insignificant but it EXPLODES at the ending of the book. Very well done by Schwab, how she set that up.As always, Schwab does an amazing job with the world-building. I've not read a fiction book with a concept like this one! I mentioned that I liked how Schwab digs deep into Kell - and all of her characters. She also did an excellent job with the story's pacing and structure! Setting up the big showdown in book three was done very sneakily and precisely. I love Kell! He's easily my favorite character of the book (Rhy is cool too... and Alucard... Lila grew on me). He's so troubled and lonely and frustrated, and he feels trapped in the palace, especially since the king, queen, and many of the Arnes people don't trust him anymore (despite him saving everyone's lives in A Darker Shade of Magic). Schwab fleshes out Kell even more than she did in book one, and I think I love him even more.Lila grew on me in this book! I didn't quite like her in A Darker Shade of Magic (nor did I hate her!), but I really liked her in this book. I think I understand her better. Same with Rhy - I can't remember how I felt about him in book one, but I liked him a lot in this book. And our newest important character, Alucard Emery. He's an enigma! We still don't know enough about him BUT we learn some pretty important tidbits and I am intrigued! I like him so far. In terms of the romance... well, the thing is, Kell and Lila aren't physically in the same space for the majority of this book. BUT, several solid things happen, in terms of the romance, and that's enough for me to be very satisfied with the romance. There is also a second (separate) ship in the book, and I can't wait to see where that one goes. Honestly I can't wait to see where the entire book three goes. The ending of this book is SO PAINFUL. I was in shock for at least a minute - you'll expect what happens by the time you get to the climax, but you don't want it to happen. The "villainous" part of this book sneaks up on you, and it strikes like a cobra. Suffice it to say, book three could not come fast enough. What I Did Not Like:I'm taking off 0.5 star - and rounding down - because of the cruel cliffhanger ending! I hate cliffhangers and I especially hate it when they break my heart soooo, I knocked off a star (technically a half-star, but I'm rounding down too). Don't mind me. Would I Recommend It:I LOVED this book, people. Despite the slow first half, despite the cliffhanger ending, this sequel does not disappoint. Schwab's writing, world-building, plot structure, and character development have flourished from A Darker Shade of Magic, and I'd say this book is at least as good as its predecessor. I am excited (and terrified) to read book three!Rating:4.5 stars -> rounded down to 4 stars. Cruel ending is cruel! I really did enjoy this book though. Unfortunately now I must wait in agony for the third book! It sucks when you're so invested in a story - but it's quite magical too! Too bad the wait seems to long, for a resolution. The shadows really gathered, in this book.Pre-read squees:Friends, I now have this book. And it is, well, LARGE. O_O Thank you, Tor!
6357610045	Even though I (obviously) haven’t read book #3 yet, I feel like this book was some kind of interlude between the first and the third. Where the first was almost entirely centred around interworldly politics, this one allowed a better look at the characters – their bonds, abilities and, as for Kell and Rhy, it explored their new condition. The magic tournament was honestly great and the politics of Arnes quite interesting, albeit a bit summarised – probably they were simply laying the ground for the next book? Alucard was the most charming character ever, I hope he’s gonna get to use his powers to save the world (!) in the future, and every secondary character was equally striking, I can vividly recall each one of all those mentioned. This book was better than the first under every single point of view except for one: I loved the Danes’ White London and the Danes themselves, for they were the epitome of their world. This renewed White London was a bit of a caricature of Red London and it lacked the hunger and the bite that characterised its previous version – the villainy flew downwards with the transition from the Danes to Holland, which was disappointing, considered we also got to read his “origin story”. Every time a chapter was called “White London” I rolled my eyes because everything that was going on in Red London was ten times more interesting and reading about the White counterpart, or the Grey, for that matter, felt like a waste. I want to point out that Kell and Lila only got to meet and talk after the 80% mark, so this was a bit of an exercise of patience.
2064721828	Star Rating: —> 5 Stars • RE-READ — 09/23/23 (in prep for The Fragile Threads of Power *squeeeeee!*):THIS BOOOOKKKK was, once again, INCREDIBLE; it will never NOT be incredible, imho ! THAT CLIFFHANGER THO? Evil, Schwab, freakin’ diabolic! ARGHHH!Ahhemm please excuse my very chaotic, probably messy (?), 2018 review below 😂😅😬♥️_________________First Read — 09/01/18:5 Star Read, allthewayyyy!So; THE DEETS:I’ve not shied away from expressing repeatedly in my updates that this novel is all kinds of… Incredible ! Fantastic! Wondrous! Otherworldly Fantasticalicious! Magicalicious! Swoonalicious!I’m starting to feel pretttttttty sure you know my stance atp ;-)!This has to be one of my favorite series of all time; honestly, & this baby (book #2-Just clarifying) had me HOOKED. It had me dancing in the street, guys; it’s just the bees knees. Sigh. Just so vivid & lush & fresh & dark & fantastical & witty & snarky & full of love & redemption & everything I love in a novel. Schwab’s writing itself is equally as beautiful as the story as a whole. The timing was impeccable (she really does love to torture us readers) in relation to events as well as her beautiful world building & character development.( Just FYI- IMO this was more a NA read rather than YA... and the first book may be a slow burn for hardcore YA readers. I say give it another chance though ! Once you actually fall in, everything is just wild. The pages come alive. It’s so very good, and this follow up is even better. Even so, I do think the majority of YA fantasy lovers will like/love/want to run away with this.😂 For those who don’t, maybe try a re-read ? Am I pushing too hard? Haha I’m sorry I just I can’t even imagine not like/love/wanting to run away with this entire series. But; to each their own ! 😉)Anyone in love with books with roots deep in magic/magicians (the real kind, not the illusionist kind :-P)... give it a try. It’s utterly magnificent. OOoOH WHEEEE!The whole series takes on the whole “good vs. evil” magic based novel, adds V.E.’s signature snark, and then manages to take it, turn it on its head, and shake it up— in the just very best way possible. A Gathering Of Shadows (contrary to its title), truly shines so very brightly & brings on the emotion, excitement, fun, diversity, & intrigue. For me it was like getting lost staring at the night sky at the beach- feeling the crashing waves lapping at my ankles, all clear sky, the only light to be seen shining from the stars, the moon, their reflection on the ocean, & the gleam in your own eyes.(Sorry if it felt like you were eating tons of cheese puffs while reading that part. What can I say; it’s the truth!)Also, I will say... the world traveling here and the methods of doing such made me feel giddy inside, it was so freakin’ AWESOME! I love “portal writing” more than anything, probably. Ah, it all started in my early childhood with Alice, a certain rabbit hole, & a place called Wonderland. Traveling to different worlds makes me swoon and feel more alive than probably any type of novel. Not only do you get to travel to one world while reading, but two! In this case, there’s four places we have a chance of traveling to! 😱 YESYESYESYESYES. Just, yes, mmk?I’m only going to elaborate on a select few characters here, and only in a general sense, because I want to mini review... no time for more!...and that said- my favorite character in A Gathering Of Shadows... *drumroll pleaseeeee*....Delilah Bard; she is a DAMN force to be reckoned with; she’s a spark, a beautiful feisty spark who is ready to unleash her flames of fury at any moment, amongst other things. She is the true definition of a hero.She’s a dreamer. A dreamer of adventures and she won’t lay down her map until she’s seen everything the world(s) has(have) to offer.She’s brave, she’s witty, she’s brash & gritty & beautiful in every way.She’s just the what’s the what. Fact.I love to get to see a fierce female be the protagonist (as she is in this installment) of any story, let alone one woven so intricately and beautifully as this. She don’t need no man (that was said in a southern accent in my head so please read as such), and can handle herself (I mean... DAMN!) & protect those around her as well. In fact, she seems to always be saving someone’s ass, haha, no matter the cost for her.Her adventures here... PIRATES! MORE THIEVERY! OPEN OCEAN ANTICS! SEDUCTION! MAGIC! TRICKERY! ADVENTURE! ROMANCE? OTHER THINGS! (Hey; I can’t reveal it all, you know).I still love Kell as much as ever, even more so, actually, than in the first installment of the series. We get to see a more intricate picture of who he is here, and break into his protective shell a bit, although mystery is still abound! I won’t say anymore about my man Kell because I have so much to gush about that it’s just too much for you to handle & me to write ;-) haha. He placed 3rd only because the first novel highlighted him more than anyone else; others deserve a chance, you know?! Ah, Kell, I love you, you complex mystery. Ahhh! And this would not be complete without saying that RHY! Just RHY! We finally get to TRULY meet him here! For a supporting character, he sure steals the thunder quite a few times, and I have never fallen so hard for a character in a series who had minimal “page time” ;-) in Book #1! He becomes completely 3-Dimensional here, in Book #2. GIVE ME MORE RHY! I’d say more but I don’t want to give away any amazingincredibleperfectness.Maybe my vote for favorite here goes to Rhy instead? Mmnh lets go with that he comes in a very, very close second; like, recap-checking-worthy close second 💛Honorable mention goes to... Alucard Emery. Swoon-worthy, baby!Wise, Kind, Honorable. I love getting to know this man. I treasure this novel so greatly. This novel... oh, this novel & this whole damn series made my heart fall in love, frankly drown & die (but I say that in the best way possible, lol), and then come back to life again with more vitality and love than before- OVER&OVER&OVERTOINFINITYANDBEYOND.Anoshe!PS Regarding below; FYI- I never stopped feeling the feels ❤️😉Oh. The. Feels. 09/01/18 I am moving on to a conjuring of light bc I want to get some more reading in while I can ! Will finish review ASAP (um when I stop obsessing and feeling all the feels).♥️♥️♥️
2186778124	5 STARS. DRAWN ON A WALL. IN MY OWN BLOOD. OMG. I loved the first book, but this one really delivered. My head is reeling from all of the emotions. This is one of the best books I’ve read all year (and I’ve read some great ones). Lila YES (YES YES YES). Kell NO. Alucard YES. Rhy NO.What just happened?! That ending! Go, Lila go! I’m not even mad at you anymore (sorry Stasion, you’re lost to me). And my Kell! Damnit. And Rhy!?! You can’t end it like that! And then there is Alucard, apparently I just have a soft spot for sassy privateers. I’m so glad I don’t have to wait for the third book to be released and that I already own it. Because I need to start it. Right. Now. So that’s what I’m going to do. And you get this for now, because well... I need to read.
3652371559	Re-read May 2023I FUCKING LOVE A MAGICAL TOURNAMENT. Another delightful rereading experience. I am having the time of my life. I love this series so much.Like with A Darker Shade of Magic I rated this 5 stars long before I was actually rating and reviewing things and I'm leaving it there now because I am incapable of being normal about how much I love this series so I'm not even going to try to rate it.
1830845732	There are spoilers from the previous book in this review...so proceed at your own riskNarrator: Steven Crossley★ ★ ★ ★ ★Narrator: Kate Reading★ ★ ★ ★ ★I LOVE THESE NARRATORS. MOVING ON. I don't know who I love more: Kell? Rhy? Lila? Alucard?Like how can you pick between a one-black-eyed master of magic who travels across worlds, a near-perfect prince who has risen from the dead, a cross-dressing-pirate girl who does impossible things or a ruggedly handsome and mysterious privateer who never lets anyone in on his master plan?I feel as if the first book built up to this one, and this one is building up to the next one. A book series that has built such depth to its characters and has had such care with its world and has kept my attention from the first page is a book that I will forever rave about to anyone who has it. If I saw you in the park reading this, I would sit down next to you and talk to you about how much we both love this book because you will love this book and its series.This one is centered around a game against magicians. Different countries (Red London) all come together and they have their best magicians play against each other to see who the victor is. It's written in such wonder detail and woven in such a delicate way that you won't be able to stop reading. This is the type of book that leaves you thinking about it and distracting you through out the day.It isn't just the magic that will draw you in though. The characters are very human. They all have their flaws and our main men, Kell and Rhy, really struggle with the aftermath of the last book. Kell feels like he is in a cage and Rhy feels like a burden to his brother. Their Rhy's parents really give Kell a hard time and there is just such a build up to the explosion that is the end of this book.WARNING: It is a cliff hanger, and it will not be okay.But it's okay kind of because we get more pirates. We get more cross-dressing. We get lots of chemistry between all four of the characters. We get equality. We get raw action. We get it all. The only thing this book needed was.. nope, it had everything I ever wanted in more in this book. Now to wait a month for the already pre-ordered third book...WAIT, A TELEVISION SHOW ADAPTION?That makes me so incredibly happy yet nervous, but mostly happy because of some of the tweets V.E. Schwab said.Seriously. I am here b/c you are here. I get to keep writing b/c you keep reading. I get to try new things b/c you believe in me.— Victoria Schwab (@veschwab) February 3, 2016I know readers have bothhope and fear when it comes to adaptation, so let me say: A DARKER SHADE OF MAGIC will be done right, or not at all. — Victoria Schwab (@veschwab) February 3, 2016I can say that because my producer and I have been aligned on that at every. single. stage.— Victoria Schwab (@veschwab) February 3, 2016Also, the fact we have the opportunity to adapt the ADSOM for TV, where we can fully explore the worlds and stories, makes my heart sing. — Victoria Schwab (@veschwab) February 3, 2016No matter what happens, I am just clinging to the idea of this pilot getting cast so I can take a photo with Kell and Rhy and Lila. — Victoria Schwab (@veschwab) February 3, 2016EEEEEEEEEK!
1654166881	3.5 stars.While obviously a middle book and, let's be honest, mostly just set up for the next book, this is still a really enjoyable series, well-written, fun, magical and dark at the same time. The main point of conflict is the triwizard tournament, which really isn't a serious conflict at all, but there's lots of trouble brewing on the backburner. How does it compare to A Darker Shade of Magic?One of the things I both liked and disliked about the first book was that it cruised at 600 pages an hour before abruptly slamming on the breaks. It was exciting and head-spinning. This second book is more traditional in pacing and execution- not as fast, but a little more coherent. A complaint I had about the first book was the loose, inconsistent rules with the magic system. There isn't much of that here which is nice. Something I really liked about the first book was the London-hopping! Basically the premise of the book. And, unfortunately, there isn't much of that here which is not nice. And of course there's the cliffhanger.https://mrphilipslibrary.wordpress.co...
1732140627	I tried very hard. I did. And I failed. Miserably. In my defence, let it be said that it has been the first time that I read a sequel to a book that could be a perfect stand-alone (if a tad boring). There was no substance in A Darker Shade of Magic and I guess I picked A Gathering of Shadow in a sheer curiosity what the Author could possibly squeeze out of a second installment. Installment of 500+ pages, mind you.So let me just give you the short synopsis, the essence of what awaits the reader brave enough to venture into the chapters of this book:Delilah: nothing, nothing but then violence is the answer to everything (and even if it is not, that's what men do and I am no weak female!).Kell: nothing, nothing amidst angst and boredom and random making out in public with a girl when thinking of another girl.White London: BANG! albeit a bang to be expected.Delilah: nothing, nothing mixed with insecurities and...oh, my word, just when I thought things cannot go more awry, a blooming promise of Mary 'Special Snowflake' Sue. (view spoiler)[We all know her one eye is missing and as such she has it replaced with a glass eyeball with nobody, save one person (now, collective eye-roll please), being aware of this fact. We are in a world of where the sign of Antari are multi-coloured eyes. Now let us add 2 and 2 and the result is pretty predictable: a super magical girl from a non-magical world. (hide spoiler)] Kell: brooding, aimless wandering, but hey, some serious magical event 'is gathering' on the horizon, so let us endure the nothing.Rhy: I am a Prince, but I am also special in name only as I have no magic. Oh! the Games! Will happen. Eventually.Delilah: The Games! They will happen. At some point. My chapter is just to fill in the time until they commence. Let's practice my marysueness, I think I am going to need proficiency in this art.And that, my friends, is the first half of the book. First two hundred AND fifty pages. Nothing happens. Literally, the plot could be summarised on 10 pages (and that including retelling of what has happened in the previous book). And for me, this is the ultimate sign of disrespect for a Reader. Or a hallmark of an Author paid per page. I gave up at 50% and did not finish the novel. Nor I intend to invest in the grand finale (what?!). Having said this, I am also perplexed by the milky way of stars received by this book. Yet another proof that stars breed stars and that hype have the tendency to elevate to stardom books of dubious quality. Myself, I am placing Ms. Schwab in the same corner with Ms. Novik and Ms. Mass, among others. They will keep each other perfect company.
1442914279	More like 4.5Well, Victoria Schwab has done it again... Did I have any doubt that I would love this book? No, not really. But part of me worried a little. I think I've become a much more critical/picky reader overall since I read the first book in this series and I was worried that I couldn't be THAT good like I remembered.. But I should never have doubted!! Amazing writing, phenomenal world-building, spectacular characters... This series has it all!I could gush about the the unique and interesting world Victoria Schwab has created in this series, but I already did that in my review of the first book. The thing I really loved about the first book was the way we jumped around to all these different Londons- each one so vivid and immersive- it kept the book exciting and interesting and new. In this book, we spend pretty much all of our time in Red London (although we do explore Red London and the Arnesian empire a bit more). The entire plot is essentially build up for these Elemental Games that occur in the last 100 pages. So basically 400 pages of build up! Yes, this book was slower but...That left a lot more room for character development and relationships. We are introduced to a new character in this book, and his name is Alucard. At first, I was looking at Alucard all squinty eyed like "who are you, new character, and how dare you interact with my babies?!" But he grew on me. I was really intrigued by him, he seemed mysterious, and he surprised me in a few ways. “I'm sorry." He sounded so...earnest, which made Lila instantly suspicious. Alucard was many things, but genuine wasn't usually one of them."For growing on me?" she asked.He shook his head. "For whatever happened to you. For whoever hurt you so deeply that you see things like friends and fondness as weapons instead of shields.” Lila was definitely my favorite character in the first book. This is a quote from my review of the first book:"an adventurer at heart who goes looking for trouble constantly. She's tough, determined, hilarious. Although I admit, there were moments I wanted to scream WHY LILA?!?! when she would do something stupid... For me, Lila breathed life into the story, because Kell was so damn serious all of the time." This book took my feelings about Lila and multiplied them times 148737622. Her recklessness and need for adventure bordered on annoying and I found myself screaming WHY LILA and NO LILA more times than I want to admit. Lila is learning more about who she is and what she's capable of in this new London where she feels anything is possible, and it gives her a sense of invincibility, which causes her to do some stupid things. I'm honestly just waiting for Lila to screw up big time, because it seems as if everything comes so easily for her, and she can find her way out of any sticky situation. “Kell would say it was impossible. What a useless word, in a world with magic.” Kell and Rhy are struggling to learn how to deal with their new magical bond. But my heart really broke for Kell. D: Everyone blames Kell for what happened at the end of the last book and he's left feeling more alienated and alone than ever before. Both Kell and Rhy harbor a lot of regret about their mistakes and the danger they put themselves and their kingdom in, but Kell's heart is so loyal despite the way he's treated just... Ugh. *hugs Kell* I hope to finally learn answers about Kell's past, parents, ect in the third book..And dear lord that ending... This book ends on such a cliffhanger and I neeeeeed to know what happens. Are my babies ok?! What's gonna happen?!?! I'm so scared. And I have to wait a whole year to find out?!Overall, an amazing and satisfactory sequel!
2403331743	As always my review contains spoilers: This book was tasked with the very important duty of creating the world. While the first book introduced us to the four Londons we only saw the London cities. In A Gathering of Shadows, we begin to see just how vast the red world is, while getting glimpses of the recovery in White London. While this book did a decent job with world building it was not nearly as engaging as the first. The plot was--well there really wasn't a plot. It felt like it existed to show us how powerful Lila was and to introduce the big bad guy for the epic series finale. Again, this is obviously important, but that doesn't mean it warrants as high of a review as the first book. It's a necessary bridge novel setting up what I assume will be an unbelievable third novel. I enjoyed the introduction of new characters, the expansion of the world, and the establishment of the main villain. I wished the tournament was a bigger deal, we only got to see it in the final 30% of the book and even then it was underwhelming (except when Lila was the participant). As usual she stole every scene she was in and was by far the most interesting character. Alucard Emery was second. Yeah, I think that's all I have to say about this one. It was a bridge novel, but it didn't feel like it was filler. Everything was necessary; it just felt more like part 1 of the final book and not the 2nd book in a trilogy.
2040534345	I was really eager to start this one because I was excited about the trajectory of this series after book one, but this was such a let-down. It's centered around such a random and pointless event that really has no relevance to the actual storyline, and wasn't even that fun to read about. Only about the last 100 pages had any sort of connection to the first book at all, and the rest was fluff. The characters bored me, there wasn't anything driving the story, and I really wanted to love this book but it just was uninteresting and felt like it wasn't even a part of the series. The ending finally picked up though so hopefully book three will finally interest me enough to give 5 stars! But these books can be soooo slow because of world building and expansive inner monologue.
1937742719	I went into A Gathering of Shadows with extremely limited expectations, but was delighted to discover one of my favorite books of the year (so far). In contrast, my friend Petrik HATED it. And we usually line up with most of our reviews (you can check out his scathing review of this book on Goodreads). We’ve such a broad difference of opinion of the same book, which is really fascinating. I see most of his points, but had a very different reaction to them. Ultimately, I thought A Gathering of Shadows was a fantastic follow up to A Darker Shade of Magic. It had a lot more of the fun elements the first one was missing: an exploration of Red London, a magical dueling tournament, and some excellent insight into these already good characters. I especially loved Lila. It’s refreshing to read about a tough female character who actually backs up her bolstering with action. I can’t think of another female lead with such grit (cunning, bravery, and skill, maybe, but not grit). Overall, the trilogy is worth reading just for aGoS alone – I was completely engrossed from start to finish, and will probably add it to my List of All-Time Favorites (yeah, I liked it that much).Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com
2286389821	Hola? Editorial Planeta?Quería preguntar CUÁNDO PUBLICAN EL TERCER LIBRO??? VOY A MORIR
1388098520	I'm still too speechless to write a coherent review forgive me.But I'll try. And I'll start with this quote. “She bent most of the rules. She broke the rest. And she wanted to know why. How. If she was just a blip in the universe, an anomaly, or something more.”Two chapters in and I was like "Lila is already showing too much sass ooooooh I like".Seriously though, it took me this long to read this because (A) I knew my otp will be apart for like 70% of the story and (B) it has the most devastating cliffhangers known to man. Those reasons were legit. So wipe that little judging stare off right this minute! Jk. Judge away!As I have already said, Lila's attitude on the first few pages had really won me over. And of course, the WRITING. The writing was fabulous as expected. Nothing but the bestest from Victoria Schwab.Everything about this book was gold. The banter, the new character, the dialogue, the twists, the magic, the fighting, everything can win a freaking award.I actually compiled a list of things I love/adore/worship about this precious book and I came up with a couple of things, as in, 837282938.MY LOVES:• the dropdead gorgeous writing• the world which I seriously want to live in• the magic system• the characters that were so well written• the humor• the light and dark themes meshed perfectly together I could cry• Kell• Lila• Kell and Lila• Lila's serious sass and badassery• Rhy and Kell's funny banter• the note Rhy pinned to his door• Rhy: "Who needs magic when you look this good?"• Rhy himself• Kell's famous scowl• THE FUCKING BUILDUP LEADING TO KELL AND LILA'S REUNION• the shocking reveal of the new king of White London that clocked me hard in the jaw• Alucard Emery• Alucard's seductive skill (WANT)• Kamerov Loste• “He wasn’t coming to pay your debt. He was coming to see if you’d returned to pay it yourself.” • The Banner Night at Rhy's chambers (!!!)• (((insert screaming potato emoji)))• I ship them• the obvious foreshadowing on this one: “Oh, I doubt they’ll think that,” he said with a wave of his hand. Lila tried not to feel insulted.• Kell and Lila's "courtship" according to Rhy• Emo Kell• Lila's crossdressing ability• & fighting ability• && magical ability• she's a literal QUEEN• fairy godmother in the form of Calla• Alucard's little memory flashbacks• the toot toot at Kell's balcony• excuse me while I hang myself• I ship my ship so hard someone help me• SS-OS-O-RS-O-R-RS-O-R-R-YI cannot wait to devour the final book. La la la la la~I'll end this mini review with this heartbreaking quote that pinched the corners of my heart quite forcefully. “Another binding. Would he never be free?”
2174596400	2.5 stars100 pages: Okay. Nothing has happened but I suppose this is just setup.200 pages: Alright. There's a lot of setup and background in this book.300 pages in: Sweet Jesus, Mary and Joseph when will this book start??Alright. My biggest problem with the book (view spoiler)[ is that the majority of a book was about a tournament that 1) Doesn't really affect the plot and 2) Didn't start until 70% (Yes, 70%) into the book! (hide spoiler)]Also, Rhy, Lila and Kell are not nearly as fun as they were in the first book and the world building has gone south. What happened, Ms Schwab? There are better Mary-sue characters in poorly written fanfiction than Lila, Kell is a woe-is-me-grumpy-pants all book through and Rhy is just irritating. The only character I liked was Alucard, and he's long forgotten about in the last 30% when the book gets exciting. Why? He was the only character that kept the first 70% going for me. A lot of the bad things that happen in this book are because of the characters' stupid choices instead of external circumstances. And this bothers me. A lot. ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2038631504	Who needs magic when you look this good? It took me 3 tries to finish this book. I didn’t like A Darker Shade of Magic and figured that continuing the series would be a waste of time but since so many of my bookish friends love this series, I told myself that I had to know what the hype was all about.The first few tries weren’t successful, mainly because I was distracted and started craving for other books. But on the third attempt, I was able to push through some of the dragging first parts of the book and finally started reading material that excited me! A Gathering of Shadows is very different from its predecessor: it has a different (better) plot and more characters that I was emotionally invested in. I always thought that Schwab’s writing wasn’t for me, but clearly I was wrong because I devoured the action packed chapters and the interactions of not only Lila and Kell, but also Rhy, Alucard, Tieren, Ojka, and Holland.I don’t really have much to say except that I’m glad I pushed through with this series and that I’m also hurt by that cliffhanger of an ending. I was so invested that I forgot to check how many pages were left!4 stars (which is a great improvement when I first rated this 1 star lol)Review originally posted on https://bookallure.com/2017/09/21/a-g...
1601547276	3.5 StarsNot as good as the first. Heavily reminiscent of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Definitely a middle book. Very little overall story advancement. Also, a pretty brutal cliffhanger. Le sigh.
1777258278	About: A Gathering of Shadows is a young adult fantasy novel written by V. E. Schwab. It was published on 1/17/17 by Tor Books, an imprint of Macmillan, 512 pages. The genres are fantasy, magic, young adult, and fiction.My Experience: I started reading A Gathering of Shadows on 7/16/17 and finished it on 7/29/17. I enjoyed reading this book. It’s much longer and there is a lot going on. I’m starting to like reading books in the third person point of view because I get to have glimpses into everyone’s feelings and experiences. I love that this book started out with Lila because I couldn’t get enough of her in book 1. She’s definitely reckless. I like her attitude in life, especially when she’s caught but instead of begging to have the opportunity for her to take part in, she challenges the other person that if he turns her in, the consequences will be far worse. “What a waste of life to stand around and think so much on every little thing. What did it matter why she wanted… She simply did.” p260In this book, readers will follow Lila as she finally be able to live her dream of being on a ship at sea. She’s on her own in Red London and it’s no surprise that she able to find her way on board a ship. At sea, she learns magic and awoken the mystery inside of her. Four months later, the ship, Night Spire, comes back to Red London and just in time for Is Essen Tasch (The Element Games), an international tournament between 3 empires. Alucard Emery is a mysterious Captain aboard the Night Spire. Kell is miserable in this book. What he did at the end of the first book is not being rewarded but instead being blamed and punished. He is unable to live his life because it affects Rhy Marish, prince of Red London. Rhy hosts the Essen Tasch and found a way for Kell to compete, a little distraction to his depressing life. The game is exciting to read. There are romances in this book, one unexpected and the other one is short lived. Kell’s mystery background is still a mystery in this book. The surprise with White London is not very interesting to read for me but it’s definitely a build up for book 3. I’m surprised Kell made that mistake in the end because he seems smarter than that, however, with King & Queen Marish’s wretched attitude towards him, I can understand how lonely and vulnerable he becomes and a simple mistake like that can occur. “everyone talks about the unknown like it’s some big scary thing, but it’s the familiar that’s always bothered me. It’s heavy, builds up around you like rocks, until it’s walls and a ceiling and a cell.” p398This book is a close 5 stars read for me. There were some chapters I find dull, mostly about White London. There weren’t a lot of information on Ojka. I was hoping to learn more about Kell’s background in this book but he’s as mysterious as before. I’m glad Lila explore herself even though she’s no closer in figuring out who she is or what she is. I like Calla and her willingness to help, but I wonder why she keeps quiet and continue help no questions asked. I like the witty banter between Alucard and Lila. I am disappointed for the lack of background stories on many characters but I still find myself reading on because the mystery of who Alucard is and the danger of the Essen Tasch seems exciting especially when there are disguises among the true participants. I was hoping something will happen with Ned but he plays it safe in this book. Overall, this book is still a great read and I do recommend everyone to read this book.Pro: actions, adventures, magic, challenges, coverCon: lack of background for many characters,I rate it 4.5 stars!***Disclaimer: I bought this book with my own money and my opinions are honest.xoxo,Jasmine at www.howusefulitis.wordpress.com
2930954882	3.5 rounded upI enjoyed this book more than the first one in the series. However it was obviously a middle in a series as everything built towards being resolved in the next book. Which although was a little disappointing, it worked and made me start the next one immediately. Luckily I had it to hand. Some parts are a little cliche and repetitive, specially Lila’s character but overall I do actually love the characters.
2763848908	“Look, everyone talks about the unknown like it's some big scary thing, but it's the familiar that's always bothered me. It's heavy, builds up around you like rocks, until it's walls and a ceiling and a cell.” ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ SHOOK STARSA Darker Shade of Magic: ★★A Gathering of Shadows: ★★★★You could say, that my enjoyment for this book is, quite literally, the double of what it was for the first one. A Darker Shade of Magic was, in my opinion, quite boring and shallow. I wasn’t planning on reading the next book in the series, but thankfully, I did, and I finally enjoyed my first V.E Schwab book. My opinion on this series is now more open-minded and I am now currently binging the last book in the trilogy. While I have some issues with the book, they’re mostly nit-picking (which is what I excel at) that’s why even though I have them, I’m glad enough to have finally enjoyed a YA Fantasy. ➼ the magic system: “people are the most variable and important component in the equation of magic. Magic, itself is, after all, a constant, a pure and steady source, like water. People and the world they shape -they are the conduits of magic, determining its nature, colouring its energy.” I think this quote proves well enough that we finally dive into the magic system and question its stability. It’s something I’ve really been looking forward because the magic in this series has always been what intrigued me the most. ➼ Delilah’s character: “People could only hurt you if you cared enough to let them." Delilah is incredibly well developed and takes more space than any other in this instalment. I didn’t really like her in the first book, but she has grown on me. She’s really complex, ambitious and cunning, which is the usual way to my heart. However, I also did have an issue with how strong she was; I thought that she didn’t have any weak spots (apart from her lack of attachment and blatant emotions) which doesn’t sit right with me considering that now she is some sort of ‘unbeatable’ mage as well as a kick ass thief and . Give her some weakness! It would bring some much-needed confrontation to this book and dramatize the stakes of the plot as well. "Everyone talks about the unknown like it's some big scary thing, but it's the familiar that's always bothered me. It's heavy, builds up around you like rocks, until it's walls and a ceiling and a cell."➼ Kell’s character: I liked Kell. I still do. But he didn’t develop much in this book, in fact he felt like he was sort of stuck in a loop of scowling and angsty Delilah thoughts which didn’t help his character at all. I’ll even go as far as to say that he felt like a stereotype of himself in this instalment. The only thing we really saw was his devotion to Rhy and Delilah and that was really well exploded. We got to see some duality as he had to choose between his kingdom and his brother, I loved that bit but wished it lasted a bit longer and was more intense. ➼ the plot: I loved the competition. To be frank, it reminded me of The Hunger Games (my fav YA series of all time) so I liked that aspect of the book. I thought it was fun and GAMES (we stan a good pun.) I thought it was a good way to expose Delilah’s powers and teach her to use them. I especially liked the flashbacks to conversations with Luc as he taught her magic. The Games were pretty useful in another way because it allowed the reader to be more familiar with the rest of the world and its neighbouring countries, which we haven't really touched upon in the first book. However, the part of the plot that focuses on White London felt empty and shallow. I don’t know if this was planned as a stand-alone or a series (like Vicious) but it doesn’t feel very continuous. I have the feeling that Schwab brought Holland back because she needed a plot but also didn’t know what to do with him and his side of the story. He basically waited for the entire book in white London, with a 10 pages long chapter every 100 pages in which nothing happened. Honestly, I skim read his chapters they weren’t very important. In overall, the fact that I’m nit-picking this much just shows how much I cared about the details of this book because, I truly, deeply-enjoyed it. I just don’t see the point of raving about things everyone has already praised and wanted to get a bit deeper than that!
1801968737	4.25 OMG that ending Stars I suffer from Character Separation Anxiety or CSA for short. So sometimes when two characters in a book are separated for long periods of time in said book it can interfere with my said enjoyment of that book because I’m so distracted waiting for when they will see each other again.I loved Lila and Kell together in ADSoM. The chemistry between them and banter was great. I liked how well they played off one another and worked together as a team and then when AGoSs starts up and they have been apart for the last three months as Lila is being a Pirate and Kell is stuck in the palace being treated like crap by all those around him.I waited…And I waited….And I longed for…..And I hoped that…..And then FINALLY it happened and it was pretty awesome but it was so far into the book that I think it really affected how much I enjoyed the first half of it. Fair warning.Overall I liked this book. There was the introduction of Alucard the pirateprivateer ship captain. He is fantastic and I was slightly worried for a minute that there was going to be a love triangle of death I really hate love triangles but that worked out FAN-freaking-tastically so no worries there. Alucard was a great addition to the story and it seems he had a history with Kell and Rhy and I couldn’t wait to find out what it was.Lila was her rash ever impetuous self and while it worked so great for me in the first book without Kell to temper her it was a little much sometimes but so true to her character. “She bent most of the rules. She broke the rest.” Still she comes into some of her magic in this book and it was interesting to see her learn how to work it.Kell had a rough time of it. Untrusted by the King and Queen after the episode with the black rock he brought into Red London he is dealing with the fall out of that and his new connection to Rhy I spent most of the book feeling a little sorry for him. There is still quite a bit of humor between him and Rhy and I loved getting more page time with the brothers but I was still suffering from CSA and so it was a little diminished. So here is a moment between them I waited so long for. “They crashed into each other as if propelled by gravity, and he didn't know which one of them was the object and which the earth, only that they were colliding. The kiss was Lila pressed into a single gesture. Her brazen pride and her stubborn resolve, her recklessness and her daring and her hunger for freedom. It was all those things, and it took Kell's breath away.” There are some weird and scary things happening across all the Londons and I have so many theories about what is going on with the magic bleed between them that I don’t have any idea which seems more plausible. But some very interesting things are going on and dang if I don’t think that the King and Queen are keeping some very big secrets about the magical flows and why Red London seems to be doing so well magically while there are some serious problems in the other Londons.But the best parts of the book were when the magic competition starts happening. I’m totally a sucker for competitions or gladiator or arena fights. So when there is a magical competition that Rhy is setting up and Kell and Lila are trying to sneak into. That is when the book really took off for me and that is when it became unputdownable.Rhy is still one of my favorite characters. The charismatic prince gets some of the best lines only to be outdone on occasion by Alucard. Even thought this isn’t a romantic book at all and all of that stuff is on the back back burner there are still some moments that are swoonworthy and I think that Rhy might have met someone even more charismatic than him, that is a tall order to be sure.Overall the story stuttered at the beginning for me but then it picked up momentum and finished out so strong and intense that I feel like I should rate it in two parts giving 2 stars to the first 50% and 5 stars to the last 50%.I am so excited for the next book because it ended in a bang and I NEED to know what happens next.
