3233537603	I've written 10 novels by now, and this one was by far the most emotionally difficult one, for it forced me to revisit a dark period in my life. This story of high-achieving Asian Americans in a competitive environment reflects many Asian Americans' true experiences. The pressure students feel from their immigrant families to achieve high grades and test scores, and make it into top universities, can become a recipe for stress and misery--and in this fictional story, for secrets, lies, and even murder. With HOW WE FALL APART, I hope to entertain readers with an edge-of-your-seat thriller story that offers an inside look at an Asian American upbringing; but beneath the surface, this story raises questions about the structure of our hyper-competitive school environments, strict upbringings, racial identity, the model minority myth, and the sacrifices we make to maintain the narrative and image of immigrant success--which may or may not be worth it, in the end. Tread carefully, reader, for this is how we fall apart.
3763643986	it's me not the book.My expectations went sky high when this book was announced as a dark academia mystery thriller set in high competitive elite school featuring Asian protagonist. I had all this possible scenarios and aesthetics in my head. I was just so excited. But alas I was disappointed..Starting with characters. Pretty unlikeable and 1d characters in terms of motivation and character development both. My first question was how all of them became friends. We know about Nancy and Jamie but how about others Alexander, Akil and Krystal. And the way they dealt with their life changing secrets. "eye roll* everything was very unrealistic and superficial. They all were just stupid calling themselves the smart ones. Nobody could have guessed the ending because no clues were dropped beforehand. It's like the secret is dropped, our MCs get suspension, people whisper about them and then they move on to next plot twist.It was like *bam*, author had to complete the book so take it with one of the most stupid and possible yet boring reasons. It was ridiculous and CLICHE.The writing was okay. Easy to read. More of like for someone beginner who wants to get into the habit of reading and not focus much on wordplay. The topics it was supposed to address were taken in consideration properly. They were just touched upon. As an Asian myself I know how much competition we have to face and how it tampers with our mental health. But this book didn't even explained it properly. Let's speak of THE INCIDENT. I have read like 150+ mystery thriller books so I can pinpoint pretty easily what they might have done. Still I wanted to be amazed but sadly I was true.So summing up it was a pretty short and easy to read book with nothing happening and bunch of stupid kids running here and there hiding the killer.
4151434947	i would highly suggest checking out what the author wrote here because, after reading this book, i agree with so much of what she says.i think this story does a great job as shedding light on what i am sure is the common pressure many asian american students face. while the vast majority of readers will never be able to identify with the wealth some of these students come from, their educational environments, racial identities, and emotional struggles are relatable to many. and its this kind of representation that makes the novel worth reading. and i actually wish this story was a realistic/contemporary fiction because the mystery/murder aspect is surprisingly quite disappointing. dark academia is my all time favourite genre, so im so sad that i couldnt get into that part of the story. and i think its because ive read it before - in ‘pretty little liars,’ in ‘gossip girl,’ in ‘one of us is lying,’ and many other stories. its very recycled material and makes the story feel uninspired. the lack of twists and turns was also a let down for me.regardless, this is a great story in many other ways and worth picking up!↠ 3.5 stars
3835809987	Dark academia thriller :One of us lying meets famous Korean tv series Boys Over Flowers vibes with quiet fast pacing and riveting story and damaged, broken characters who did so many mistakes under pressure to survive at the competitive school circle! Aren’t you still sold? The story takes place at Upper West Side , Sinclair Prep, an elite high school that ranked number one in every imaginable university entrance rates, debate championships, number of alumni who went on to become US presidents. Jamie Ruan is top ranked junior, a privileged princess of Sinclair Prep who is a pretty perfectionist student, achieving any goal she’s designated. She can play dirty. She’s merciless against any obstacles on her way. And she always know how to get away with anything and do away with anyone. She could ruin lives with a single whisper to her healthy influential father. But now her reputation is tarnished after her father’s imprisonment because of embezzling. Our narrator Nancy Luo who is a child of immigrants came to pursue their American dream is a daughter of maid, got accepted to the school with full scholarship. She tries too hard to defeat Jamie to be valedictorian for pursuing her own dreams. It’s so obvious she can trade her arms and legs to take place on Jamie’s life. She suffers from inferiority complex, trying so hard to fit with wealthy family’s kids but she also thinks so little about her achievements. Especially her father’s return to China makes feel more abandoned and worthless. Once upon she and her three best friends Akil, Alexander, Krystal were Jamie’s friends but after the incident they’ve been through two years ago and her father’s conviction, they got estranged and now Jamie’s missing. And a secret hacker starts bombarding school network with texts asking them a simple question: Jamie has four former friends . Each friends has a secret. One day Jamie goes missing, which friend is guilty and deserves punishment?A) the one who sunk the lowest to get the highestB)the one who ruined a girl three years agoC)the one hiding a criminalD)the one who traded conscience with gradesAnd a few days later they find the body of Jamie at an empty New York apartment. Authorities think it is murder case. So who killed Jamie Ruan? Instead of her four estranged friends, there are so many lives she’s ruined. So it could be anybody!As you can see both Nancy and her friends keep so dark secrets. None of them is innocent including the victim. And they have to find the Proctor at first who sends those messages unless they want their secrets reveal. Because the things they hold themselves can ruin their entire futures they hardly worked for! It’s a mind blowing, riveting page turner with a little Asian series vibes. The ending was a little far fetched with soap opera vibes. But I liked the final twist and the last conclusion. Overall: it was entertaining mystery reading! I’m rounding up 3.5 stars to whodunnit, dirty little secrets, you can trust no one four stars! Special thanks to NetGalley and Bloomsbury USA Children’s Books for sharing this digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions.
4038899722	"Everyone thought Jamie Ruan was perfect. Nobody knew what she was willing to do, how far she was willing to go, to maintain the flawless image she'd crafted."As a human being who was the literal target audience for Gossip Girl back in the day, How We Fall Apart is my jam, and the fact that it is a more diverse and inclusive re-envisioning? I'm not sure how many books this series is slated for, but the fact that we get at least one more story with these characters in this prestigious world has me salivating for a time machine, because take me to next year please. Zhao presents us with a familiar premise: 4 students with secrets are being blackmailed after the death of their friend, the popular, successful queen bee, Jamie Ruan. The story is told from Nancy Luo's POV, with some little snippets of confessions and messages from their school's app called Tip Tap, which is where the anonymous threats are posted publicly. As we follow the narrative, we discover each secret that these 4 are hiding, while also working toward discovering another secret involving the 5 students and another, previous student from the school named Em. Almost all of the questions are answered by the end, except one secret that will set up book two."Become the best. Or else. Back then, I did not understand what Mama was asking for, what granting her wishes would cost me. Then, I did not know a debt of life could only be repaid with life. With blood. And so I promised, and so I vowed. For family. For everything we sacrificed. I would die trying."One of the major themes in this book, as described by the author, is the pressure that many Asian children feel to overachieve, in an attempt to find their worth for parents who sacrificed everything to give them a better life by moving to America. Also, the disparities shown between the kids at Sinclair Prep who were born into privilege and the ones who were not, regardless of race or culture, are so thought provoking. Yes, this book is an entertaining expose on past mistakes coming back to haunt you, but there's a lot of real meat to the character progression in this book, and some really dark, heavy subjects are touched upon. There were a few times I wanted to throttle Nancy based on her choices regarding a certain someone, and you'll definitely need to suspend your sense of realism for the big reveal, but I thought this was a creative, intuitive YA novel that had me fully engaged from beginning to end. I am anxiously awaiting the follow up novel after that ending!AUTHOR'S NOTE: Please note that this book contains depictions of abuse, self-harm, violence, parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, an inappropriate student/teacher relationship, racism, and suicidal thoughts. I understand these themes may be triggering and would suggest proceeding with caution.*Many thanks to the publisher for my review copy.
5204472135	This one felt very reminiscent of pretty little liars with a hint of gossip girl. The characters are definitely what kept me reading this one. Everyone brought such different elements to the story and I loved learning about their lives and the hardships that they were facing. Unfortunately a majority of the book is building up to a reveal that is incredibly unrealistic. I just felt like there was no way the characters wouldn't have picked up on a specific thing that goes down. I was a little let down, but I still enjoyed my time reading this.
3400145541	trigger warnings: abuse, self-harm, violence, parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, a student/teacher relationship, racism, suicidal thoughts, murder, blackmail, fire, suicide, death of a friendI had the highest of hopes for How We Fall Apart. After all, a dark academia book with a primarily Asian cast that addressed hyper-competitive school environments, strict upbringings, racial identity, the model minority myth, and immigrant success? Those were things I knew all too well. I so badly wanted to like this book, but it just fell so flat for me. I’m not sure if my expectations were simply too high, or if I simply couldn’t connect with How We Fall Apart.Pitched as One of Us is Lying meets Crazy Rich Asians, and for fans of Gossip Girl, How We Fall Apart follows Nancy Luo, Akil, Alexander, and Krystal shortly after the disappearance — and murder — of their former best friend, Jamie Ruan. When someone named “The Proctor” starts threatening them and leaking their secrets on the school’s social media app, Tip Tap, the four band together once again to uncover who The Proctor truly is, and before all their secrets are revealed. Prior to her death, Jamie Ruan was the girl everybody wanted to be. Top of her class, and with enough money that nothing could ever touch her — or at least, that’s how it appeared to be. She’s mean, classist, and just straight up cruel, in a way that had me questioning why and how she even had friends. It seemed like everyone was just scared of being on her bad side, but I really was just so confused. In fact, I wrote “how are they best friends when they all hate her?!?!?!” in my notes while reading it. Unfortunately, a lot of Jamie’s behavior seemed to retroactively be addressed by saying she had her own issues, and challenges with her mental health. Which isn’t an excuse — you can have things going on, you can have bad mental health days, but that doesn’t give you an excuse to take it out on the people around you, nor does it give you an excuse to be classist and just awful. I also wasn’t entirely sure how the quintet all became friends in the first place, and would’ve liked more backstory. In all honesty, I found the characters pretty unlikable. I wanted more depth from them, more character development, and we didn’t get any of that. It felt like these life-changing secrets were being dropped, and instead of feeling guilty or any sort of remorse about what had happened, they were more concerned about how this would affect their reputation and the way they were perceived. These secrets also just didn’t really make sense? I was surprised at how quickly these bombshells were dropped, and then everyone just moved on past it, despite the gravity of these secrets. I really had to suspend a lot of disbelief to keep reading. Speaking of things I had to suspend disbelief for, I was really shocked that all four characters, who weren’t really friends anymore, could rejoin and reunite so quickly. But even more so, I was shocked that all four characters, who came from varying classes and cultures, would all respond to being accused of murder in the same way. How We Fall Apart fell flat for me in many ways, but the most disappointing one was the lack of nuance. Everything felt very superficial, particularly the topics I looked forward to the most: the discussions of the model minority myth, the myth of the American dream, the discussions of mental health… everything. As someone who also went to an incredibly competitive high school, I’m all too familiar with how that affects your mental health, and how that intersects within Asian immigrant culture. Had the characters (particularly the adults) in How We Fall Apart acknowledged their role in this, or even the school, I might’ve enjoyed this book more.I think the best mystery-thrillers are ones that drop little clues here and there along the way, and then when the big reveal is done, you go: “why didn’t I see that all along?” or the ones that you figure out just before the characters do. Sadly, I found How We Fall Apart a little too predictable in that aspect, so I wasn’t shocked when the big reveal happened. Although, I do question if How We Fall Apart is supposed to be marketed as a dark academia mystery-thriller, or something else altogether. For what it’s worth, How We Fall Apart is a fast-paced and short read, and I did resonate with some of the quotes. I was pretty disappointed with the ending, until the very last page, when it does leave on a cliffhanger, and makes room for a potential sequel — which alone, gives it an extra ½ star.find the full review & others on my blog 🤍
4189457192	the only good thing about this book is that it was over soon. i really believe dark academia is the perfect genre for asians with the hyper-competitiveness and severe upbringing that often define our academic lives. how we fall apart promised to explore this theme along with elitism, classism, the elusiveness of the american dream, immigrant success, parental pressure, and the model minority myth for asian americans - but sadly in doing so, it kind of fell apart.every single thing about this novel is just so painfully shallow. the themes were certainly present but only touched upon - the author never bothered to give them the attention and nuance they deserved. the characters were all one-dimensional, boring, and passive. the relationships were superficial with no emotional depth whatsoever - i have no idea why these kids were friends or what they liked about each other. the writing was laughably dramatic and just plain cringeworthy at times. the mystery/thriller plot was so poorly handled. we have this mysterious anon who wants to destroy our main characters' lives by exposing their deepest, darkest secrets to the whole school - but these secrets didn't really have any serious consequences (and were a bit tame for a thriller plot to be honest). at the most, the kids get suspended or have whispers thrown around about them but that's literally it, their lives are hardly ruined. and once a secret got dropped, the plot simply moved along so that by the end, nobody really cared. the big reveal about who caused jamie's death was absolutely ridiculous - there are limits to how much disbelief i can suspend. also, i'm really tired of seeing mental illness/depression being used in a dramatic twisty kind of way in such thriller stories instead of actually being explored with care. overall, this was a disappointing and forgettable read for me - but it's possible someone going in with zero expectations might enjoy it. personally, i'll be giving the sequel a pass. cws: mention of parental abuse, mention of self-harm, parental abandonment, drug use, racism, suicidal thoughts, murder, suiciderep: asian-american main cast, sapphic side characters
3768060391	update: lowering a star because i saw this book on my feed and was reminded of how much i didn't like it there's nothing worse than a thriller which is not thrilling in the slightest.i had high hopes for how we fall apart. while this book is what it promises us, dark academia with an asian-american cast, it fell flat. its not the best thriller out there but its pretty fast paced which was the only reason why i liked it. i did not feel the curiosity of finding the person behind it all as i should've been. otherwise, all the characters felt superficial and unlikeable. i really really wish they would've been more developed or had more of a backstory. not kidding when i say the gossip girl/pll vibes are deep rooted. most scenarios seemed ridiculous. i did find the whole mystery part predictable and the cause of jamie's death was way too simple. i was looking forward to this mainly because i thought it would discuss the problems of immigrants, asian immigrants at that, but the struggles were only mentioned throughout and again lacked depth. i understand the pressure asian parents put on children, so nancy's constant need to not disappoint them felt somewhat real.uhh i feel like the ending was done like that just to make this a duology but anyway, i'm awaiting it to see what more clownery happens in sinclair prep. thank you bloomsbury and netgalley for the arc
3903356897	1.75 or 2 stars ⭐️ ”Everyone wanted to hear success stories about those who came from nothing, working hard to become something extraordinary.Nobody would want to know the gritty, unpleasant details about what it took—what it really took—to get there.” I don’t think I’ve learnt anything. I always try to go into a book with low expectations but there was just something about this book’s cover or it’s genre which sounded right up my alley that made me feel like “omg apoorva this is when your stars align and give you a great book” but alas everything went to shit. “Nothing in life is fair. But that’s why you have to work your hardest when the other kids are playing. You have less than them, which means you must be better than them. You must work ten times as hard as your classmates to have what they have. Remember that, Nancy. You are not weak.” This review is gonna be short and to the point since I’m still healing from the chaotic mess this book was. The more i think about it, the more irritated i get. There were more things I hated and I can’t help but find only one thing which did work for me which was just the fast pace this book had which made me happy cause i didn’t have to deal with this mess for long. Negatives- ~ The Characters and the plot If anyone knows me well I would rather choose a book with good characters bad plot than a good book with bad characters but alas this book had neither. I couldn’t feel anything for these characters (besides Alexander- i did like him but he couldn’t save the book for me sorry) and the not liking the characters made me give no shit about what happened to them. I was legit at a stage in the book where I was praying to god that they all died so atleast I could leave the book with a good feeling lol. The plot wasn’t something “good” just “indifferent”. I don’t think i would even call this a dark academia cause wtf🤡 the mystery aspect wasn’t really even mystery or maybe its only me cause read too much mystery and I wasn’t really shocked when the big reveal happened. Ngl, it was underwhelming😭~ The rich school thingie Since i lost one of my two braincells because of this book, you’ll have to deal with my weird ass expressions. Anyways, Richard Sinclair Preparatory School, or Sinclair Prep is one of most prestigious schools and only high-class people and very intelligent kids get admission in there. BUT trust me, the 4 friends were pretty dumb to be called “intelligent” or even get admission it and to think that the main protagonist was a scholarship student like girllll whaaa💀 long story short - everyone was stupid even the headmaster of the school and though i would appreciate their stupidity cause it reminds me im not the only one dumb I didn’t like it in the book. AT ALL. I sometimes really wondered if the school was really one of the most prestigious schools ever or did anyone change the meaning of “intelligent” from “having or showing the ability to understand, learn and think” to “stupid”. ~ Empathy If I’m right the author wanted us to feel sad about how the kids were under-pressure and how they were doin everything they could do to just succeed and make their parents proud and I did empathise with them but then this fucking happened- “Haven’t you ever wondered what it’d be like to—to disappear?” Jamie gripped my arm like a drowning man to a lifeboat. “Am I—Am I weak for having those thoughts, sometimes?”[……] Less than twenty-four hours before our next SAT practice test, only six weeks until the real thing in March, and here she was distracting me from my studies. Mama might even say Jamie was being pathetic for not being able to handle this school and all its demands. And I didn’t have time for this. Didn’t have time to entertain the whimsies of rich kids who had more than me, always had more than me, even if they didn’t graduate at the top of the class..” I’m sorry but DO U REALLY EXPECT ME TO FEEL SOMETHING OTHER THAN WANTING TO KILL THE PROTAGONIST?! Your friend straight on tells you the she wonders what it would be like to die or disappear but you go on and actually be like “ omg when is she gonna shut up, i want to study and you’re rich you dont have any problems” 🤡🤡💀💀💀 sorry but all i feel is hatred and severe serial killer tendencies cause nothing would ever bring me so much joy than killing her at that moment. I hated how all Nancy (the main protagonist) did was cry over money issues and be jealous of kids who had money instead of being proud that she had got a scholarship but nah she had to cry over everything. I didn’t even feel anything for the dead girl cause honestly she was nothing better too. I do feel bad for her cause if it was for me I would’ve killed off everyone and not only her cause everyone deserved to die:) In short words- the only strong feeling i felt towards this book was the feeling to kill every single character (besides bb Alex) 😌😌 “Maybe then Mama would finally be proud of me.For that, I would do anything. Anything at all.I dug my nails deeper and deeper. I didn’t stop. I didn’t stop until they drew blood, the droplets welling from where nails pierced skin. Later, those open wounds would turn into scars. Into a promise. Into a blood oath.” Ahh, what i would do to suffer amnesia and forget this book ever existed🥵 there’s nothing more sexy than wanting your most anticipated release of the year to never exist💃🏼🤩 Overall, this book was a HUGE disappointment and honestly i wouldnt recommend it to anyone but if you want to find out if you do have a killer side, i think this is the best book to check😌
3731145701	picked this book up and could NOT put it down until I finished. one of the better mysteries I’ve read In awhile tbh.review to come.
4088945619	Bleugh.DNF I can't take the writing style and I'm bored.Very disappointed as I was initially enthralled by the notion of a dark academia mystery with asian kids! Perhaps I'll try again in future. Actually the chances are nonexistent. But let me know if its worth pushing on!1 star
4224893597	i entered this book with high expectations: it had a brilliant cover and title, which caught my eye and caused me to add it to my pile of library books to begin with. the blurb promised asian-american dark academia, and i hoped it would be a more diverse version of ‘one of us is lying.’ unfortunately, i left this book disappointed.the writing itself was mediocre. the same themes and sentences were repeated throughout the entire book: that the main character, nancy, is poor - she was able to join the country’s most competitive high school through scholarship - but she consistently felt like she could never measure up to her rich friends, like they were always talking about her behind her back because she was not made of money. her parents expected her, and pushed her, to get good grades - the highest in the class. however, everyone else’s parents expected much of the same of their children, creating and fostering an air of competition, where the chances of betrayal and bribery were high. her best friend, jamie, is the most popular and successful girl in school, who has a bad habit of using her money and influence to maintain this position, and who throws fits when things don’t go her way. she won’t let anything, or anyone, get in the way of what she wants, and she also has a mean streak - although nancy and jamie are best friends, they certainly give off a vibe that is closer to frenemies. then, jamie turns up dead, and her entire group of friends, nancy included, are on the suspects list.the characters themselves felt flat, built entirely on stereotypes. yes, they exist for a reason - many asian american parents do push their children to succeed academically. however, every single character in this book lived this reality, and their entire personalities were built off of this. other than some additional daddy issues, for the most part, this was all we really knew of them. at worst, they could also be irritating at times. the main character’s love interest comes off more as a manipulative predator, several years older than her and insisting that they keep their relationship a secret, and no matter how many times she realizes that he isn’t as into and devoted to her as she is to him, she always goes back to him, blindly believing that somehow he has changed. it had the potential to touch upon an important and sensitive topic - how academic pressure is directly related to mental health, particularly depression and anxiety. unfortunately, i felt like it fell flat in this aspect, as well. one panic attack is mentioned, but as someone who suffers from anxiety and panic attacks, i felt like it was dramatic and unrealistic. the character drops to the ground and seizes, and somehow everyone knows that this is a panic attack. when reading it, i honestly thought he was having a seizure. additionally, while depression and suicidal thoughts are touched upon, none of the characters are given the help that they truly need, and instead are met with hostility when they dare to open up. from their friends !! the mystery aspect itself is what kept me hanging in there, but it committed the fallacy that happens all too often in the genre - yes, the ending was a plot twist, but one that the reader never could’ve seen coming. there were no clues leading up to it, no foreshadowing. it felt unrealistic and therefore disappointing. worst of all, the book was left off on a cliffhanger - one last secret we’ll never get to know, because this is actually the first book in a series. i dragged myself through this book and left with little to no connections to the characters, so i suppose i’m okay with simply never knowing.
4535394584	2.5 stars
3987132985	★★★ ½ ☆ // 3.5 s t a r sMy Book Blog — Apollo ApprovedThank you Bloomsbury USA Children's Books for sending me an ARC via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review!ReveiwI have one thing to say. And that is: Mass texting an entire school is not a thing. Why does it feel like so many mystery plotlines revolve around that? I just sit there like, "This literally cannot happen." And even if it could, how the hell would they all have this person's contact saved. Like literal bruh.Okay, so this book basically follows a group of four high school juniors who are pretty much trying to prove their innocence in the death of their former friend. Sound familiar? Wonder why…*cough One Of Us Is Lying cough*. Anyway, as is expected, all these main characters have their fair share of secrets, some of which are just slightly over dramatic and more than a little unbelievable. I won't say them here because spoilers (I wonder if there's a way to hide spoilers on here like on Goodreads…), but let's just say Krystal? Probably could've dialed that down.I definitely think some of the more interesting parts of the book came in the form of the struggles the main characters faced. For example, Nancy and how she's a scholarship student at a private high school full of rich kids (sans Alexander). Also, factor in that she's Asian American and the book really highlights pressures students experience against these barriers.The plot. It was so dramatic that it was like GIVE ME MORE, but at the same time it was so extra that in the back of your mind you're always going, "really?" The dialogue. You could almost explicitly tell that it was meant for almost younger young adults, I guess. I'm sure a twelve-year-old could read this and enjoy it maybe more than a fifteen-year-old could. That's mostly because when the characters end up being the same age as you, you almost expect them to act and do exactly as you do, and when they do anything remotely juvenile-esque you're like okay maybe this isn't for me?Also, the book was fairly short, only about 350 pages. Which left much to be desired. Especially regarding the suspense, I definitely could've used more. This had a severe case of, "Oh, your classmate was murdered? Well, okay. Get to class!" Hopefully that will get better in the next installment, and hopefully at least one or two characters will become more attachment worthy. Especially because Anon doesn't count.Finally, the finale. The reveal was…meh. As soon as just about anyone starts this they'll dwindle from two to one options as to who the mysterious "Proctor" is, and almost everyone is going to guess right. That being said, the way the reveal went down was slightly surprising because we didn't really get any hints as to it being that way, but maybe that just adds to the intrigue. I'm sure if a reread happened, I'd find little tidbits that would be utter eye-openers. ❝ Everyone thought Jamie Ruan was perfect. Nobody knew what she was willing to do, how far she was willing to go, to maintain the flawless image she'd crafted. ❞All in all, How We Fall Apart was a pretty good mystery with a group of students out to clear their names, face secrets being revealed along the way, and full of over-the-top drama. No stress because the cliffhanger wasn't huge, but there are more secrets to be unveiled…Read…If You Liked…
3845988168	This book deserves a higher overall rating.review: https://youtu.be/Yonygqu9iVk
4119584067	Dark academia murder mystery thriller, need I say more? As soon as I heard this book was pitched as Crazy Rich Asians meets One of Us is Lying, I was totally sold. I definitely got some Pretty Little Liars vibes as well so if any of those are favorites of yours, you’ll definitely enjoy this book!How We Fall Apart follows Nancy Luo, a top student at her cut-throat elite private high school, Sinclair Prep, where students are consistently pushed to their breaking points to achieve academic excellence. When the valedictorian and her former best friend Jamie Ruan is murdered, Nancy and her three best friends are thrown into the spotlight as prime suspects and they must fight to keep their secrets buried and prove their innocence.This was a really fast read and I felt like I was dropped right into the story which I really enjoyed. The action started up quickly and I loved the fast-paced nature of it. The story was told through a mix of present day chapter and flashbacks to the past that helped to provide a better sense of the main group of characters and their interactions. There were a lot of important discussions about family dynamics, friendships and expectations. While the book focused mainly on the mystery, I felt like it also gave a lot of insight into American Asian culture and described the hopes of immigrants wanting a better life for their kids. I 100% did not see the twist coming and I didn’t guess the murderer correctly at all. I’m super curious to see what happens with this series and I can’t wait for everyone else to get to read this book!Thank you so much to Bloomsbury YA for sending an ARC my way ❤️
3763640693	Actual rating 3.5/5 stars. This is the first instalment in the How We Fall Apart series. Nancy Luo has always felt like an outcast at her elite prep school. She doesn't come from a wealthy family, doesn't holiday in far-flung destinations, and doesn't name drop famous names and places like most of her peers. She attends thanks to a scholarship fund and has found her way to the top of the school's social hierarchy thanks to best friend, Jamie Ruan.Or, should that be former best friend, seen as Jamie has been murdered and the entire school seems to believe that Nancy and her other friends have information about the killer. The Proctor is the name of the unknown individual who is feeding secrets about the popular crew into the school's gossip account. Nothing they reveal has been a lie and it is only a matter of time before Nancy's deepest secrets and regrets are posted there too.I had so much fun with this story. Pretty Little Liars meets Gossip Girl with an Asian MC and some dark academia vibes - what is not to love there? This was full of teen drama, lots of angst, and many mysteries. The ending turned a little unbelievable but I had a fun time throughout and am so eager for book two's release.Nancy was an interesting main character and her slightly outcast status provided the perfect perspective for the reader to understand this elite and privileged world. Her friendship group were not as clearly depicted and I struggled to relate to them in the same way. I loved the dual focus on the present, after Jamie's murder, and the past, that revealed what this teenage girl was really like to those she was supposedly closest with, though. Nothing was at it seems here and no-one could be trusted, least of all, it was revealed, our insight into this world...I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Katie Zhao, and the publisher, Bloomsbury YA, for this opportunity.
3765020416	this book has been done before...by it i mean this plot isn't revolutionary and i've read it before in a lot of books that did much better! and i was kinda expecting something good out of it because it had a mysterious promising premise and i'm a simp for it but the thrilling isn't all that and the big plot twist is already obvious when the truth is revealed, which is a turn off for me...
3981295833	thank you so much bloomsbury for this arc!3.5/5 stars from melet’s start this off by saying, i had very high hopes for this book and it was kind of underwhelming. i feel as if some characters could’ve been more developed as well as some relationships, like alexander and nancy’s. i feel as if the last 10% of the book was awkwardly paced, but regardless of that it was still an enjoyable read. when you find out who did it, i promise you would’ve never guessed. it almost reminds me of pretty little liars and how we found out who A was, like it was very unpredictable so i’ll give the book that. i kind of loved it though, because it involved a villain speech and i love a good villain speech. through and through the story was interesting enough and for that i’m happy.
2688139327	2.5 stars. While having a promising premise and an interesting if not compelling protagonist, How We Fall Apart just isn’t the thrilling and twisty dark academia story that I wanted it to be.
3847115292	This was a 5 star prediction for me and one of my most anticipated releases of the year, but I feel like I have a tendency to overhype dark academia for myself because if it's done well, it's all time fave material.This was by no means a bad book, but it's also not new fave material for me. All in all, I feel a little underwhelmed. In a dark academia thriller, I want psychological depth and suspense, and we kind of get neither here. I don't feel like I got to know the characters that well at all, even Nancy, who's the main character. Since they're friends, I wanted to see the bonds between them explored, but that didn't really happen either. We get told they're friends but it doesn't really show.Overall, I did find this book enjoyable, and hard to put down. But it wasn't nearly as exciting as I was hoping it would be.
4052676493	** spoiler alert ** original review 11/23:i’m gonna sit with this one for a bit before writing a review but … the rating might drop y’all 💀actual review 12/2:So, uh. This was a book. I don't know why I was so disappointed by this. Maybe because it was pitched as a dark academia murder mystery centered around Asian characters at a cutthroat high school. And it is that, don't get me wrong. But the way it was executed was just so, so disappointing. I really wanted to like this. I just couldn't. Honestly, the book could've had another, like, fifty pages and it would've been so much better. If the entire thing was just a little more fleshed out, it would've been an easy three or four stars. But the whole book is so shallow with what it talks about. All of the themes and discussions feel so superficial. All of the characters are so one-dimensional, which makes their relationships feel extremely unbelievable. I had a hard time realizing that all of the characters were supposed to be friends at one point or another because of how little they actually seemed to care about each other. The weirdly-inserted bi rep was probably one of my least favorite parts of the whole book. Making the most hated character (the character who gets murdered, thanks so much) a closeted bisexual honestly felt kind of gross?? And, like, I should have liked it because, you know, it's an Asian character who's bisexual and I'm an Asian person who's bisexual. But it kind of just felt like it was shoved in there for no reason and it didn't have any development and then, of course, the bisexual character got killed, which is super fun. If that aspect of her character had been more developed instead of feeling like it was done for diversity brownie points, I wouldn't have minded as much, but all it did was leave a bad taste in my mouth. I could honestly go on about how much I didn't like this book, but I've got finals tomorrow and a big project that I need to work on on top of that, so I'll just leave it at "I don't like this book, I don't recommend it, I'm kind of sad I can't return it to the store because Barnes & Noble was having a liquidation sale and it was a final sale so I can't get rid of it but at least I didn't pay full price." It gets two stars for the concept and for not being the worst book I've read all year, but yeah, I don't recommend it.edit 12/31: yeah it’s getting 1 star. oops.
3458696554	Based on how The Dragon Warrior ended, I really should've known better than to think Katie wasn't going to give us some sort of a cliffhanger 😭Maybe a 3.5 stars if I'm being nitpicky, but either way, still rounded up to 4 stars. (edit: probably actually a 3 stars now that I've had some time to think about it) While this book is wildly different from her middle grade series, I thought this was a very solid YA debut. It's exactly what I expect from a YA thriller - fast paced, addictive, and highly entertaining. If you're a fan of shows like Pretty Little Liars, Gossip Girl, and Riverdale (season 1), this is exactly the same vibes in book form, but with an almost exclusively all-Asian cast. I thought the mystery/suspense elements were handled pretty well - while predictable at times, I really enjoyed the non-linear narrative style and how the twists were executed. I did find the reveal a little bit underwhelming, but aside from that, this was a true page turner from start to finish.Something I really loved about this book is that despite how melodramatic it is at times, you also just have moments where these teenagers are actually just being teenagers. They have exams to worry about, friendship drama, and just overall behaved like actual teenagers unlike of a lot of YA books where the main characters feel like adults posing as children. I cannot talk about this book without speaking about the representation and exploration of the themes. Katie does a pretty good job at touching on themes like privilege and wealth, the model minorty myth, and the pressures that are placed upon children of immigrants. I would've loved for the book to be a little bit longer so that we could dive a little deeper into these themes, but I do know that there is supposed to be a second book, so I look forward to seeing how these themes get expanded upon in book 2!I also very much appreciate Katie tackling the discussion of mental health in this book, especially considering how mental health is unfortunately, in a lot of Asian communities, not taken seriously at all. I personally feel that seeing Asian characters in books openly struggle with and discuss mental health is very important, and I hope that this is something we can see more of in media. All in all, I was not disappointed with this book - it was exactly what I had expected it to be, and Katie has once again delivered a book with characters and experiences that resonated with me on a very personal level. Do I think this book is for everyone? No, probably not. It's very dramatic, and I do think that if you're not into that kind of thing, or if you don't like morally grey characters who make very questionable decisions, this probably isn't for you. I personally am trash for these types of stories and tropes so I really enjoyed it, and would definitely recommend it if you are into YA thrillers and/or the teen drama TV shows! CW (provided at the beginning of the book): abuse, self-harm, violence, parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, an inappropriate student/teacher realtionship, racism, and suicidal thoughts
4037248324	I really loved this book! It has ALL the Dark Academia/prep school vives with intriguing characters and a plot which will keep you reading. If you enjoy Elite, Gossip Girl, or any similar teenager drama/thriller, you MUST pick up this book when it comes out in July!!!
3985202520	i'm so upset because this was one of my most anticipated releases of the year and i thought i would love it, but sadly, i didn't. it fell really flat for me, and personally i thought the characters were too one-dimensional and the mystery not compelling at all.
4135635675	CWs: depictions of abuse, self-harm, violence, parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, inappropriate student/teacher relationship, racism, as well as suicide and suicidal thoughtsHow We Fall Apart is fascinating and much-needed twist on the subgenre of dark academia. Because the institution of academia itself is inherently steeped in whiteness, dark academia books tend to be heavily whitewashed and dominated by privileged white characters who are (literally, in most cases) getting away with murder. How We Fall Apart challenges that positioning of the genre by drawing attention to how the key components of dark academia—exceptionalism, ego, bottomless competitive drive, etc.—are all values that are messaged to Asian-American youth by way of the Model Minority myth.The Model Minority myth, in a nut shell, is the pervasive expectation that minorities (Asian-descended communities, especially) are well-behaved, law-abiding citizens who achieve extraordinary amounts of success due to an amorphous combination of "natural talent" and bootstrap immigrant survival tactics. (Definition paraphrased from the article "What Is the Model Minority Myth?" by Sarah-Soonling Blackburn.)Thematically, every single element of this story is written as a direct challenge to that belief or expectation.It's a commentary on how academia is a deeply corrupt institution, and like all power-wielding institutions in America, those who want to navigate it successfully either have to be white or approximate themselves to whiteness. These students have been conditioned to believe that wealth is equal to superiority and morality, and that wealth—especially generational wealth—is what guarantees people opportunities. This elite school is a place where the privileged are untouchable, and the lesser are expendable. The more power you have, the more privilege you have, the more chances you get, even if you don't deserve them. And even though this story is told through the lens of an all-Asian cast, these characters have internalized those power dynamics of white supremacy, and are effectively turning them back against their own community.The story also questions how we understand "success," who gets to decide what success means, and what we expect BIPOC communities to sacrifice in order to achieve greatness or to reach an untenable standard of "success." Even the idea that "successful" and "professional" people are "well-educated" is rooted in racism itself. It's a lingering belief that gives credence to the idea that minority communities need to prove that they are "worthy" of accessing certain privileges, and that they demonstrate that they are not inherently "uncivilized" and "unintelligent."We can see this playing out in the way these characters are clambering to claim the now-vacant top spot at Sinclair Prep. Even though Jamie's path ultimately ended in literal death, they are still more than willing to take her place and to continue in the never-ending cycle of complying in a corrupt system that demands their perfection at all costs. This is another danger of the Model Minority myth, which actively erases differences between Asian communities and individuals. The implication is that they are easily replaceable because they are "all the same." Furthermore, in elitist systems such as academia, competition is encouraged over community, as a form of gatekeeping, which further contributes to the mythological concept of exceptionalism.For these characters, "elitism" is a shortcut for feeling "chosen" or "accepted," especially in a system that will always see them as second-class citizens who are unworthy of notice unless they prove themselves to be exceptional. Their desperation, their motivation, is deeply rooted in wanting to achieve that acceptance and prove their worth, even if the metric will never add up in their favor. And that nicely ties back into the story's distinct perspective by also commenting on how the disregard for mental health that is often prevalent in Asian-American communities has detrimental consequences, which only further uphold the prevailing influence of white institutions by inadvertently thinning out that competition.As you can guess from the darker, more intense themes, the story also doesn't shy away from spotlighting messy characters who make bad decisions. For these students, their agency is their only form of power, their only way of regaining some control and fighting back. Not only do those poor decisions put a decisive nail in the model minority myth, but they reflect a sense of desperation caused by the fact that these characters don't feel like their lives or their futures are their choice. Their futures are not only controlled by their parents and their teachers, but they're also ruled by the impossible expectations projected onto them in every aspect of their lives. Therefore, any action rebelling against that is a forceful reclamation of their own narrative, even if they're not making a "good" choice.As you can tell, I definitely think the story more than succeeds in reframing a predominantly white literary tradition within a very distinct Asian-American perspective and context, and I think it does amazing work in challenging and dismantling the Model Minority myth and the whiteness of academia.With all of that said, what kept me from loving this story was a lack of character depth.I think all of these characters are fascinating, messy, and complex, but we don't really get a chance to get to know them or to understand why they make the choices they make. Part of the premise of the story is that this group of four friends are being named as suspects by an anonymous source, and this person is threatening to release their deepest, darkest secrets if they don't confess their alleged compliance in Jamie's death. While that's an interesting plot device that definitely ups the tension in the story significantly, we never get to know most of the characters (besides Nancy) *outside* of those secrets.I want to be very clear and say that there's nothing wrong with having chaotic characters who make awful choices, because not all choices are rooted in logic or make sense. I didn't need those choices to be "justified" in any way; I just wish I had a better sense of the people who *made* those choices.My other main issue is that a lot of the drama and the tension feels very surface-level, because while the stakes are high, there are no lasting consequences—emotional, personal, or otherwise—for these characters' actions. (And by "consequences," I don't mean "punishment." I mean some form of natural impact stemming from their choices.) The secrets this anonymous source is revealing are some pretty serious allegations. We're talking drug use, illicit relationships, crimes, manslaughter, the whole nine yards. These are secrets with serious implications that these friends have not only kept from their family and their peers, but also from each other. And yet, when those secrets are revealed, their friendship and the dynamics between them remain virtually unchanged. We're told they're friends, even *best* friends, but we're not shown much to back that up.Because of that, it was hard for me to feel invested in the emotional component of the story. I wasn't able to feel very strongly about the characters or their relationships, because those connections remained largely untested for the most part, even though these secrets are supposed to be horrible enough to tear them apart. It was difficult for me to take those reveals seriously and not feel like they were there purely for shock value and nothing else. Ultimately I think the problem is that while intense things are happening on the surface, the drama doesn't feel like it's actually rooted in real-world stakes, and I think that's what made me feel disconnected from it.Even with all of that, I still have a tremendous amount of respect for what this story is trying to do. I think it's merely a classic case of thematic overtones outweighing character depth, and regardless, I still fully think that this story holds a great deal of merit and has so much to offer. I'm grateful for how much this story made me think about the institution of academia and how racism is deeply tied into it, and I believe that alone makes it worth the read. It was super fast-paced, intense, suspenseful, twisty, and surprising. While the characters didn't leave a lasting impression on me, the concepts and the perspective definitely did.
3081153966	rtcahhhhhhhhhh
3999202354	[tws: racism, self h*rm, drug usage, teacher-student relationship, death]pros:First things first, this book is a masterpiece I am still unable to stop thinking about it. The love I have for Katie and this book is never-ending and I’ve told her this several times, but I will forever be thankful and grateful she wrote this book.it’s the first book I’ve ever felt fully represented in. The way I could relate to Nancy was almost eerie. i have said so many things she has said like down to exact conversations she would have with her mom.Many people would say there wasn’t really mental health rep but I beg to defer. the mental health rep in this book is what I’ve experienced my whole life. You know something is wrong but you push it away because in Asian households mental health is not a thing. the little said about the clear mental instability and low self-esteem Nancy had was so true to my life I cried several times reading this book.I loved all the main cast, even if they were purposely written to be morally grey and unlikable, I loved them. I loved how Katie wrote this book to break the model minority myth and she did just that. The characters made questionable choices and all of which have their motives to be the way they are. some choices they make are choices I see my classmates make every day which made them that much more real to me.The way the kids sent in things to TipTap or the way the main cast texted was great. Unlike other authors who try to imitate teenagers texting where it ends up being overly cringy or to emoji or acronym heavy Katie wrote it just right. I felt like I was reading an actual text conversation between someone my age. Though it's a small thing, I really appreciated it.The writing was fast-paced and never boring. this was the first book I’ve read since picking up reading again that I read in one sitting and genuinely could not put down. I cannot recommend this book enough.cons:none
3620699629	How We Fall Apart by Katie Zhao Publication Date : August 3, 20214.5 STARS //Review Copy, I received a free copy of this book from Edelweiss and Bloomsbury in exchange for a fair and honest review. Dark academia murder mystery with an Asian American cast! Ten pages in and I was hooked. This book was so good, I absolutely loved it. This really felt like Pretty Little Liars but in a very prestigious school. I really like the setting, and how it showed the real struggles of how competitive academics can be. The pressure these students feel to be perfect, seems impossible to achieve. When one of Nancy’s classmates in found dead accompanied by an anonymous message posted to an app accusing her and her three friends. They are determined tofind out who it is before their secrets are revealed to everyone. I really loved the writing style, it flowed well and each character felt like they had a unique voice. The tension between The Proctor and the group of friends was so good! I cannot wait for more books from Katie Zhao. I highly recommend.
3399811960	We all know how much I love dark academia, but I do have an issue with how white the genre is. Because of that, I had really been looking forward to How We Fall Apart. Unfortunately, for me, it just fell so flat. I felt that the story had no nuance. The book is told in Nancy’s POV, but I felt like I knew nothing about her, her friends or even why they were friends. I didn’t spend any time theorizing about who “The Proctor” was, which really is the most disappointing thing for me in a mystery novel. If I’m not invested enough to try to theorize, something is definitely off. While I do appreciate dark academia stories being told by and about people of color, this one just did not work for me at all.
4197970834	This book should be read for the competition and social pressure Asian students have to go through, and not AT ALL as a mystery/thriller or "dark academia" book.I went in expecting the latter and was disappointed. In terms of mystery, it was very weak.The final reveal felt like a cheat because zero clues were thrown beforehand, it was literally pulled out of thin air and made no sense.The characters' secrets which were supposed to be monumental, after being revealed they were brushed off after a few pages. I'm still so mad about that final reveal.
4324911197	A fast paced and addictive thriller that brilliantly explores the dangers of academic pressure put upon young people from society, parents, schools and culture. Whilst I was admittedly somewhat disappointed with the final reveal, I was utterly hooked throughout and flew through this book in a matter of sittings. If you’re looking for a gripping thriller that explores racism, privilege, mental health and so much more with of us is lying (but better and not majorly ableist and featuring homophobic tropes) and PLL vibes, this is definitely worth checking out. I can’t wait to see what Zhao has in store for us in book two. TW: racism, mention of suicide, pupil-teacher relationship
3953147095	i realize i said "rtc" and then never wrote an actual review: - i liked the kind of debunking of the model minority myth and especially the discussions about competitive grade culture, parental expectations, familial relations, and immigration. the community within sinclair prep was toxic for a multitude of reasons and i liked how those points were brought to light. these are issues that also appear in the real world (though usually to a less dramatized extent), so it's important to bring them up. - pacing was very quick - moving from one shocking development to another right away - but since i was speeding through the book anyway, i didn't really mind it- i wish some of the side characters were more fully developed, not just playing a role when their secrets were outed- i...i think i like nancy as a main character. does that mean i agree with everything she does as a person? no. most definitely not. but she brings an interesting perspective. - i'm mixed on this book's discussion of mental health. it's important that these issues are brought to light, but do i like the way it was handled? maybe not. nancy was definitely not in the right when she spoke to her friends about their mental health struggles. i'd like to hope that she learned from her actions, but in a way, i don't think she did. i don't think she realized the full repercussions of her past actions and the way she so poorly handled her friends' mental health struggles. i just wish mental health was given more time and nuance in this story. - (view spoiler)[mental illness being used as a "plot twist" is a whole other issue when it comes to thrillers. (hide spoiler)]cw (listed in the front of the book): abuse, self-harm, violence, parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, inappropriate student/teacher relationship, racism, suicidal thoughts
4045932443	I adore a good mystery thriller, probably more than any other genre and sadly in the YA department, they can be really hard to find. Thankfully, this wasn't the case for Zhao's latest read. This story was so good, so hard to put down and at times, so very heartbreaking. I absolutely loved every minute of it and can't recommend it enough! *ARC provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.*
4335001409	basically an Asian pretty little liars/gossip girl/wannabe Ace of Spades. the audiobook was addictive and i loved the narrator, but the story itself is lackluster. it did have one of my favorite tropes though, as well as good discussions about Asian stereotypes, so it's a strong 3, and i prob will read the sequel.
3949581179	Gossip Girl, The Penthouse and Pretty Little Liars all in one book except that – and despite being advertised as a dark academia murder mystery - there isn’t a lot of suspense nor a lot of darknessthank you to the publisher for the earc via edelweiss
3914989584	my day is ruined, and my disappointment is unmeasurable. what the fuck even was this? rtc.
3700969743	Don’t be shy, the CW - give us this Asian-American lead cast TV adaptation 😤😤
3947004161	2.5 i really wanted to like this one://i love this style of plot, friends with secrets, and if you add that to a murder mystery, well, it got me seriously intrigued. (disclaimer: i do not want to compare this author or book to One of Us Is Lying in the sense that McManus' book disrespected people suffering with depression and used suicidal thoughts as a major plot line, and i don't believe that How We Fall Apart did that as well. she treated suicidal thoughts and actions very seriously.)i did have some of the same feelings reading both this book and One of Us Is Lying. i think both set ups were great, but the climax and final reveal disapointed me. both had the Jock, the Princess, the Smart one, and the Criminal. while McManus' characters were closely confined within these sterotypes, Zhao's weren't, and i liked that. then, an enemy, or frenemy, died, with someone blaming these main four for his/her murder. i wouldnt say this is a case of plagiarism, because while they both follow similar plots, they both bring in different side plots and things to the plate. Zhao's secrects were significantly darker (which i liked). rather than the former enemy being a plain annoyance to the group (in McManus'), Zhao's was an emotionally abusive best friend, controling the group and school like puppets on strings. and its not as if any kind of media reuses and twists and repurposes similiar plots, its not a crime to that extent. i never really connected to any of the four characters, but maybe thats the point, Nancy was written as an unreliable narrator. and i dont think youre fully supposed to click with the characters of this kind of gritty story. i could empathize with several asepcts of each character, i slave away over hoemwork for the best grades i can get in the private school i go to. i also grew up low class with busy parents and i've been stuck in some manipulative relationships. after all those similarities, i still didin't connect with them. i genuienly did like this book, but the ending was the deal breaker for me. the last big shebang. a vague, spoiler-free explanation is that i dont think it possible. i understand this is fiction, thriller fiction which will probably never happen in reality, however, i dont think teenagers would go to the extent that Zhao had them. SPOILER SECTION:in the case of emily, she was almost murdered, left the country, got plastic surgery, came back, reimplanted herself into a toxic friend group, found out their secrets, and killed jamie. I MEAN WOW. okay. emily could've pressed charges, got rich, moved countries, and start her life over again. i dont understand why she (or her parents) would want her to go back to that volitile school and friends just to get her epic revenge? i think teenagers are capable of lots of things, cruel things included. after a situation like this, rage is expected, desire for revenge is expected, but our natural instincts tell us to leave dangerous places if you can. and emily had the escape door wide open. in the scheme of psychology and teenage behavior, i just dont get it. Zhao has been pretty accurate in her portrayal of teenagers. with their grades, parental issues, familial issues, friend issues, etc. but this one wasnt it.SPOILER SECTION OVER:another issue of mine is Alexander's secret of the Golden Trio. apparently, they have done something unthinkable. but they NEVER tell us. its a pivital thing in the last few pages, Alexander whispers it to Nancy, and the book ends. the book just ends. now, i know there are more books to come for this series, but i was really frustrated by the fact that it wasnt revealed. i think it couldve been a really good book ender, the thing Alexander whispered in italics as the last line of the book, leaving us shocked and suprised. i wonder why Zhao didnt use this writing tatic and instead simply didnt tell us, maybe one day someone will ask. in summary, i think this book had really good potential. the private school setting, the asian american cast and representation, the murders and the secrets. but the supposedly best suprise didnt live up to it for me.
4048888297	Take ‘I Know What You Did Last Summer’ and add about a ton of melodrama and you get ‘How We Fall Apart’ – aka one heck of a beach read!The book does take it a step above the aforementioned franchises by adding commentary on Asian American culture and American class struggles. It makes things feel fresh and modern.I had no clue who our ‘Proctor’ was and was shocked when I found out the who and why of everything.I did find the melodrama a bit much – it even included the villain monologue scene in which a villain talks way too much and practically twirls their villainous mustache as they brag about what they’ve done. But, hey, it was entertaining as could be.This is book one and I definitely want book 2! There’s a secret we haven’t been told yet and I want it to be one that destroys a certain smug someone!*ARC via Net Galley
4182016053	rating update: 1 star. I don't even remember why I rated this 2 stars, cuz literally nothing about this book was good. Even for a debut novel.This was a huge disappointment. Weak prose, two-dimensional characters, REALLY corny plot—it all mixes together into this quick and starkly unsatisfying read.
4315032513	*Thank you Bloomsbury books for providing me with a physical copy of this book to review!*I started this book before bed one night intending to just read a little bit of it, little did I know I would devour the entire thing in a single sitting. I think that speaks for itself.If you love dark academia books about how the other half live, secrecy, blackmail and high society nonsense - this is a fun yet dark glimpse into it. It also combines that with discussions of immigration and otherness, and cultural expectations from immigrant parents about success and the American dream. It was really well done, and I’d love more from this author.It’s not often I say this, but I wish this book was longer. While I did fly through it because of its snappy pacing and intriguing plot - I wish it had more depth to it. We could’ve taken it a lot slower and let the mysteries unfold more gradually as they came to light a bit quickly. Because it was a bit rushed, the themes in here were often touched on but not fully delved into and it felt like such a shame because they were being handled so well and conversations/thoughts got cut too short too soon. There’s also a big group of characters but we don’t really get to dive into the dynamics or relationships much because it’s so plot driven and constantly moving forward.The pacing of it was bittersweet because it didn keep me so engaged and I didn’t want to put the book down at all. The plot was really intriguing and I didn’t guess anything that was happening, especially that ending. It got quite dark and the big reveal kind of threw me off massively, which is always appreciated in a mystery. I also enjoyed the formatting with the blackmail posts being a central part of the book, I thought that was fun.I have a couple of tiny things that bugged me enough to not give this book a five star. Firstly was the sheer number of times I had to read the school motto. I think here, less would have definitely been more. It was repeated so many times as a point of emphasis it ended up just watering down the impact for me. I was so sick of seeing it honestly. Also, the fact that they all talk to each other about something that happened and refer to it as ‘The Incident’. When you’re having a conversation with your friends like that, it just feels so unnatural to speak that way about a shared traumatic experience, it was a minor ick but an ick nevertheless. I would’ve liked to have seen more into Nancy’s home life. I feel like there was a massive opportunity to go into more about that, it was briefly touched on a couple of times but not really. It really could’ve bulked the book out a bit and helped with connecting to the characters a bit more I feel, because everything we know about them is so surface level and we don’t see them do much throughout the story. While the ending was a massive shocker and kind of fun, the more I think about it I don’t think it actually made any logical sense. It probably wasn’t realistic. I’m not too hung up about that though, because I have to admit I was thoroughly entertained.Also shoutout to the fact this book provided trigger warnings at the beginning, that’s always lovely to see!
4253099998	this was a good book to get me out of a slump icl! the writing was engaging and it was fast paced which is exactly what I needed rn 😫 the exploration of themes like racism, immigration and mental health problems was well executed imo! I was kinda underwhelmed with the plot twist bcs it kinda came out of no where, like I had so many theories as to who it was based on earlier things said in the book but then the plot twist had like no connection to the rest of the book. anyway alexander deserved better <\3
3929594276	Thank you so much to Bloomsbury for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review!I’m writing this review now after having just finished How We Fall Apart five minutes ago, and I am still processing everything that happened omg. I was definitely surprised at how the ending played out because I didn’t realize that this book was getting a sequel. I haven’t read many YA prep-school-thrillers where the same story continues over the course of several books, but I’m excited for more!And speaking of YA thrillers, although How We Fall Apart is marketed as one, I do think that this book is so much more than that. It’s a story of the fight that so many immigrants have to make in order to ensure a better future for their children, as well as the blood, sweat, and tears that children of immigrants put into ensuring their parents’ sacrifice wasn’t for nothing. As the daughter of Asian immigrant parents myself, I definitely related to Nancy, Alexander, Krystal, and Akil’s journeys into guaranteeing that they were the best of the best for their parents. While I didn’t attend a private prep school for high school, the high school I did attend was equally as competitive ast Sinclair and also had a predominantly Asian student population, so a lot of the conflicts that arise in Sinclair and the obstacles that Nancy, Alexander, Krystal, and Akil face were very familiar to me. I appreciated the discussions of Asian stereotypes, classism among immigrant families, child grooming, etc. Even though my high school definitely wasn’t as cutthroat as Sinclair, reading this book did really feel like I was back in high school.As far as the actual mystery aspect of the story, I’ll be honest, I wasn’t too invested in the plot. There were so many students and potential culprits mentioned that I had a hard time trusting anyone or even wrapping my head around who could potentially be The Proctor. I couldn’t even bring myself to trust Alexander, Krystal, and Akil because the story was told through Nancy’s POV and we were only given what Nancy knew about these three teens. This was a pretty unique way to tell the story, though, compared to the other thrillers I’ve read this year that have told the story through the POVs of all their main characters. I think where this book fell short for me was the pacing and the lack of connection I felt to the story. The pacing is quite fast--with secrets unraveling in every chapter--and because of this, I don’t think I was able to process what happened before our characters were moving onto dealing with the fallout from a new exposed secret. I’m also shocked at how unscathed Nancy, Alexander, Krystal, and Akil seemed through all of this? Perhaps they’re used to these insane situations due to their background or the very nature of being a student at a place like Sinclair, but I was really surprised at how they nonchalantly moved on with their lives at many points during the story. Additionally, because there were so many main and side characters, each with their own motivations and histories with Jamie, I barely felt like I knew anyone and didn’t care that much about them either. I only knew them through what Nancy knew about them or interactions we saw them make with Nancy through the flashbacks provided. Because of this, I’d have to give this novel 3.5 stars out of 5. There could have been so many moments where we could have gotten a more nuanced take on each of their characters but everything was quite surface level when it came to their personalities. It kind of felt like these characters were thrust into very common character archetypes and then each given one secret--and that was what made up their entire personality. This could definitely be a it’s-only-the-first-book-in-the-series type of disconnect (which I have felt with other series), so I’m hoping the story and characters feel more fleshed out in Book 2.How We Fall Apart comes out this Tuesday, August 17 so if you’re looking for a new thriller to read featuring an all-Asian-American cast, definitely pick this up!
3935143299	"These ancient walls, taking from us. Stealing our money and our happiness. Stripping us of who we were as they watched us become undone, watched us unwind into nothing. Taking and taking until there was nothing left to give." ARC provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review. Summary Nancy Luo is a junior at Sinclair Prep, an elite college prep high school. She is shocked when her former best friend, top of the class, uber-perfect, rich girl Jamie Ruan goes missing and is later found dead. What's worse is there an anonymous person named The Procter trying to frame her and her friends on the school's gossip app. Now, Nancy and her friends must find The Procter before they destroy everything her and her friends have sacrificed so much for. Review This was a dark academia mystery thriller focused specifically on the struggles of these Asian American teens at a high pressure high school meant to churn out only the best of the best. Nancy is a scholarship student, and so she is determined to be the best to live up to all her parents sacrificed for her.I think this book worked really well in the dark academia aspect, and was able to explore the immense pressures put on teenagers to get into a good college and obtain a high power career. Specifically, Zhao highlights these pressures within the Asian American community and how they can impact teen's mental health and drive them to act in severe ways to obtain what their parents desire for them. There is a dark history between Jamie and Nancy. Nancy is a scholarship student and so she always feels "less than." Jamie is the rich girl that has it all, and is one above Nancy in class rank. She works hard to impress her father, but is hiding dark secrets of her own. I do wish we got a bit more from what was happening to Jamie's spiraling mental state, but I digress. Seeing the push and pull of the friendship between these two girls was one of the most fascinating aspects of this book. Where this book really fell flat for me was the thriller aspect. I unfortunately felt like there were a lot of plot holes towards the end of the book. The beginning of the book had me totally hooked into what happened and discovering the dark secrets of the friend group, but once the details started to come together towards the big reveal, the plot fell apart. There were a lot of aspects of the mystery that I felt like really were not fleshed out. (view spoiler)[ Also, why couldn't Nancy and Peter just say that picture was of them when they were both students??? That is the thing that really took me out of the story the most unfortunately. (hide spoiler)]
4189609297	Dark Academia Mystery Thriller with the majority of Asian Characters. Sinclair Prep, an elite school in the upper west side. It is famous for its high university acceptance rate. Its former students went to become President. All the rich kids study there except a few scholarship kids. Nancy, Alexander, Akil, Krystal and Jamie are a group of friends. Nancy comes from a poor background, her father and mother are immigrants from China and worked their asses off so Nancy will have everything. They want Nancy to be the Best. So Nancy promised them to be BEST. Nancy doesn't care what price she has to pay, she just wants to fulfil her promise in one way or another. Nancy's mother is a part-time housekeeper of Jamie's family.Nancy and Jamie practically grew together. But where Nancy doesn't have everything, Jamie has everything. She gets whatever she wants. If she can't get something she can always steal it. Jamie's life is just Perfect. Until her father got arrested and slowly all four of her friends estranged her. On Honor's night, Jamie is murdered, and a hacker named The Proctor hint that her former friends are the murderer. Hacker also knows the dark secrets of all the four and threaten to leak them.I love the whole dark academia atmosphere. I also loved the fact that no one was goody-two-shoes. Everyone had a dark side and motive to do anything bad. The pace of the book was also good enough to keep me hooked. The story cleverly tackles the mental health issue and how Asian parents always want more and more from their children. Although I didn't like the part where Proctor was revealed and the background story. It felt a bit overdramatic. The ending was a cliffhanger so I am definitely looking forward to the second book.
3620022289	Full Review: https://rueisreadingcorner.blogspot.c...4.5/5 There once were five friends who attended Sinclair Prep but stress, competition, and GPAs as Asian American students tore them apart. Then one of them is found dead, and the remaining four become the primary murder suspects. Before Jamie died, she was the girl who had everything: money, power, and the valedictorian spot but she wasn't happy. Now that she's dead, Nancy and her three other friends have to find the real killer before they become the next victims.This was one of my most anticipated 2021 releases and it definitely didn't disappoint me! Each character was special in their own way. I didn't like Jamie one bit but at the same time, I pitied her because of what she had to carry on her shoulders. Nancy was okay, but I especially liked her other three friends. The only thing that kept me from giving it a 5/5 was the POV the story was told from. Instead of just telling it from Nancy's perspective, I wished to see the story from another character's POV. I was very curious to see others' thoughts on everything that was happening.Overall, How We Fall Apart was a very intriguing story that I finished in less than a day. It touches on subjects that are hard to talk about especially as Asian American students (I know) but in a way that wasn't stressful for the reader. The ending I didn't see coming and cliffhanger though oh my gosh. I can't wait another year for book two to find out what happens!
4622313661	Cannot reccomend. Take every cliche about being a teenager, then combine Gossip Girl with Pretty Little Liars nd put it into 200 pages.
3925765913	Review to come closer to pub date
4292869981	Students at an elite prep school are forced to confront their secrets when their ex-best friend turns up dead. How We Fall Appart is a really nice and fast read. I had a lot of fun reading it. To explain the plot really simply : when Nancy's former bestfriend died, she and her friends are suspected. This book has One Of Us Is Lying and Pretty Little Liars vibes. The personalities of the characters and the relationships between the characters were not sufficiently developed in my opinion. Still, I appreciated that this book was fast paced and really enjoyable
4333921509	This is pitched as one of us is lying meets crazy rich Asians and I could agree more, this book is pure dark academia & follows the themes of racism & classism I enjoyed reading everything from Nancy perspective but as 3 other students were accused aswell I was hoping we would of had some chapter from their perspective I had fun reading this book as it was easy to read and the chapters were short. I can’t believe the plot twist I knew it would shock me but not that much & I can’t wait to read the sequel!
5749356566	2.5/5It was fun to read a whole book in one afternoon. I’ve been really struggling to read lately but this was a fun time. The ending was not the best
4768160420	ohmygosh.
5049399184	dedicated to my wife zoe sun 😍⚠️stupid mc alert ⚠️⚠️bad review alert ⚠️"deadened eyes and glazed smiles" calm down they're class photosthe beginning was very overdramatizedas for the"I WILL END YOU JAMIE RUAN Whatever" issue..just check the edit history on powerpoint...i mean jamie’s really not that bad.. compared to what rachel was saying.. maybe rachel’s just sensitive?she made a basic ass remark(you can GOOGLE better insults than that) and then dropped some peaches…idk ig rachel cares abt her mom a lot this book is very basic..Rich girl is mean because of her father who she is afraid ofthe po po are “very interested” in an anonymous tip, on a school gossip app, accusing four normal if not wealthy sixteen year olds of the murder of one of their friends. and the po po are “very interested”(Oh and one of them is 15 too..po po be like “All the more likely to commit murder”)so the principal knows abt this “tip tap” and is still letting it continue? idk i feel like maybe the school is partially at fault here this is the stupidest principal ever “oh i’m sorry we HAVE to take this seriously i don’t have any other leads..oh what’s this? a lead? ‘i’m sure that message is unrelated to ms ruan’s unfortunate death’”dk mc is very emotional like do you need to get that checked out?? i get you’re jealous but “I will end you”.. a little dramatic, it reminds me of that one girl from suicide medwhat’s the point of the Mysterious initials you’ve already posted a fucking photo of them it’s giving “I wanna be one of us is lying so bad”ohhhh and now we’re accusing 8th graders of murder. so that’s how it is huhagain with the anonymous, evidenceless posts that everyone takes as factso we’re spilling baseless secrets that while probably true, sound ridiculous even in context. the only evidence is an emo photo and even the poster says “rumor has it” instead of confirming it as fact. can’t you just leave these people alone? why do people believe this?this ^ is mainly about krystal.. from what i’ve read it was pretty obvious akil was doing drugs“krystal, alone in that gleaming, picture perfect penthouse. alone, always alone.” i’m sorry, the Rule of three, the alliteration, the fragments and the imagery just aren’t doing it for me..none of them are…..,it;s giving "shoved all my poetic devices into one sentence"latin: let’s go!!!!! you got the “te” part right but im pretty sure it would be “decepio” and not “decepit” unless latin conjugation is part of this mystery!!!!(it’s not!!!!! it was just wrong)latin conjugation aside this is the stupidest thing i’ve ever readok we get that jamie was the center of attention all the time bc you’ve said it like 1000 times but i think at her FUNERAL is the wrong place to want attention(“remember: today wasn’t about me. it was about jamie. / it was always about jamie.” she is at the funeral rn)…and this James Hale Law Summer Internship Program also has tiptap…i see. i see.Not the students confessing that they are getting abused at home on this app and the principal is like Tiptap whaaat that’s my favorite video game Everyone can play it!!!!the 180 between liking peter and liking alexander is killing me slowly and painfully. i hate this book("omg I don't like you...wait has alexander always been this cute!" UGH)idk when a guy is trying to get in a relationship w you and the first thing he says is “i can give you everything, nancy. grades. money. status. would you like that?” i feel like that’s a major red flagit’s a dark photo of a couple of asian people kissing with a caption claiming them to be specific people. just tell the principal that and tell him it’s racism or something? Idfk“but it was me this time, turning away from peter. me this time, slamming the door on him, on us.”you “turned away from him” last time and this is Not fantastic writing(imo!)surely the school would inform the parents in some way abt suspensionwhat is it with these people and writing death threats in all caps on colorful notebook paper and leaving it around for others to read(Oh and you fucking signed it too…school full of real intellectuals i see)also you could have just written that on a piece of paper and taken a photo. when you really look at it, the proctor has NO evidence. this shit would not hold up in courtyou didn’t catch shit…nancy practically caught herself. and she’s not even a killer right? jamie committed suicide?And a cliffhanger ending too 1 star(even lower)
4187115167	If you have read 'One Of Us Is Lying', don't bother to read this book. It is the almost exactly the same story, only even more ridiculous! It is not dark academia as much as a boring high school thriller. Sinclair Prep is a posh private school for the ultra-rich with exacting standards that put students through the grind. ( But they still find time apart from homework to plan murders, commit crime, and go to parties - so maybe Sinclair Prep isn't giving them as much work as they expect us to believe ). The parents and teachers are apathetic, and seem to have very confused priorities in life. There is seriously one scene at the start of the novel where the headmaster asks some students if they had committed a murder, not because he cares about justice but because he wants to 'manage' press and PR for the school. Yikes! Are we truly surprised this school produces psychopathic murderous teenagers?The book is narrated in first-person which completes the illusion that you're reading your own high school diary. Dear Diary,The Chemistry exam was so tough, and my parents gave me a hard time because I didn't score an A. It was only because I was out partying and getting drunk last night that I couldn't do well on the exam. Why won't my parents understand?! Jamie topped the exam. So I think I will go kill her so that I can top the next exam. This is the most logical way to make my parents proud. Jamie Ruan was the most popular girl at school, till her father got arrested for embezzling, and everyone at school - including her so-called best friends - ostracize Jamie. It turns out that Jamie was a mean bully and people only hung out with her because she was rich, and now that she is no longer rich, no one likes her anymore. That is till she goes and gets inconveniently murdered, and then everyone loves her again and wants to punish her murderer.There is an anonymous messaging app - like in every other high school thriller written in the past five years - and someone called 'The Proctor' accuses Jamie's four former friends - Nancy, Akil, Alexander, and Krystal - of her murder. He threatens to spill all their secrets unless they reveal what they did, under Jaime's guidance, two years ago . So the four team up to take them down, but the clock is ticking, and they all have secrets to hide. "The problem started at home. It started with the parents who always pushed for more, more, more. Why were they never satisfied?The problem lay with this school, with all these institutions. Walls too high to climb, doors shut to all except the most privileged. Lies about not seeing color. Lies about merit-based education, about hard work translating into success." The book tries to tackle multiple issues: mental health, parental pressure, privilege, class barriers, institutional prejudice etc. but ends up taking no stand on any of them. The ending was mangled and confusing, and left too many questions unanswered for this to qualify as a good thriller.
4191413324	HOW WE FALL APART is a delicious story about Jamie, a murdered high achieving rich girl and the frenemies suspected of killing her. Narrated by scholarship student Nancy, who was always second yo Jamie who’s mom was one of Jamie’s maids, readers learn about the depths these rich kids will go to be the best and please their parents. Katie Zhou’s crisp, tension-filled writing makes HOW WE FALL APART a very readable mystery and psychological thriller (not a thriller-thriller). Nancy, though sympathetic, was difficult to root for as she made bad decision after bad decision, though at times her heart was in the right place. Most of the characters lacked depth and nuance, not a decent one in the bunch though some had redeeming qualities. Worse than the characters were their parents, willing to forgo their children’s happiness for the American Dream. I know that non-white immigrants have many added stressors and burdens, but I don’t think that ought to make all their parents relentless tyrants without empathy.A few reasons for me not giving HOW WE FALL APART five stars, as much as I enjoyed the book. Eric, who graduated two years ago was NOT a teacher or a student teacher at one of the most exclusive schools in the country. One year of college *might* get him a teacher aid job (meaning in the classroom with a real teacher). No school would risk hiring a “teacher” who was classmates with kids still at the school, no matter how rich his parents.The other part was the school seemed to lack white legacy kids whose ancestors had attended the school since it’s founding. I don’t need white kids in a story, but having a few, even if they were mentions and not actual characters would have made this centuries old school more believable. If Zhou didn’t want go that route, a newer school founded by immigrants that exceeded all the white founded (likely built by slaves) schools would have made more sense to me. I’d never take off a star for a detail like this, it’s just a place my mind kept going.The experience of reading HOW WE FALL APART was fun and I never lost interest. I hope there’s a second book in what looks like a series.
4053451971	** spoiler alert ** This story opens with a girl named Nancy, who is a scholarship student at Sinclair Prep, a school with many overly wealthy students. Most, like Nancy, seem to come from Asian parents who expect them to be perfect and achieve great things. Nancy resents the privilege of the other students there, especially her "best friend" Jamie, who throws their socioeconimic differences in her face often. I'm only adding the quotes here because Nancy's mom works as a maid for Jamie's parents, so it seems very reminiscent of the short story "The Stolen Party" by Liliana Heker. Are they really friends? Can the kid who doesn't know the difference between want and need be best friends with the maid's kid?When Jamie turns up dead, the mystery begins and the fingers point to Nancy and her circle of friends, who seem a lot like acquaintances instead of close friends (their interactions are limited, so we don't get a feel for their relationships). None were likeable or even memorable, although we only get to know Nancy and catch glimpses of Alexander. A fast read, but predictable. My low rating comes from two things: First, the reveal (who did what). I swear, I heard a trombone go wah-wah-wah in my head when the person was revealed. Just no. Second, the ending. There was no ending after the reveal; it just kept going. And that's when I looked it up on Goodreads to see that it said "#1" next to the title. Oh. It's the beginning to a series. Nancy learns a big secret and then the book ends. The reader does not know that secret. I understand that this leaves a new mystery set up for book 2, but the ending felt unfinished.
3986787732	Big thanks to Bloomsburry for the advanced copy via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All opinions and comments are my own. Overall: 4.5 ☆ but rounded up to 5 ☆ because I liked it so much.CW - at end of review. So may allude to/be spoilers. Katio Zhao takes readers into the world of elite academics and throws open ALL the doors. This book explores the powerful themes of parents who push their kids beyond the limits and students who are willing to do ANYTHING to reach the top.Jamie Ruan, Sinclair Prep's #1 it girl (grades, looks, & finances) is found murdered. Soon, the Proctor, a mysterious entity, who seems to have all the answers, points the finger at four of Jamie's closest friends.Nancy Luo (our MC) has always been Jamie's best friend...and second best to Jamie in every aspect of their lives.Krystal is a fashion forward girl who always ranks in the top 10 but may have been a bit too close to Jamie, in more ways than one.Alexander, like Nancy is a scholarship kid who's had to fight to get to where he is, and is maybe willing to do more to stay there.Akil not only ranks academically but athletically as well. Some may wonder how he does it all, but not Jamie.This was such an addicting read and I could not put it down and finished in less than 24 hrs.Katie Zhao's writing is phenomenal and well, to die for (pun intended). I really liked the set up because we meet our cast of characters early on and immediately dive into the dark side of elite academics. Nancy is our narrator and her point of view not only walks us through the investigation of Jamie's murder but into their complicated friendship. Nancy and Jamie have been best friends their whole lives begining at Chinese school and ending a few months before the start of the book. Their entire relationship has been a mix of genuine friendship and a constant need to one up eachother, except Jamie has come second to absolutely no one. Jamie seems to have the perfect life and Nancy has envied her for it the whole time and Jamie never let her forget it either.Not only is this book a murder mystery with a Pretty Little Liars vibe, but it also takes a very hard look at the push of Asian American parents on their children from everything they do FOR their kids to everything they do TO their kids for their ability and failure to reach the top of the academic ranks. This book also has chisme coming out of its EARS and secrets that would make Gretchen Weiner's hair too big for her head. This was my first murder mystery book and I was genuinely impressed with it and how much I enjoyed it. I'm a HUGE romance reader and I'm not normally into this genre but the synopsis caught my attention and the book sealed the deal.I think my only critique about this book was that part of the mystery was strongly hinted at/mentioned very early into the book and honestly, a bit too much. It made me feel like, "I get it, this is important to the plot but you're kind of giving it away". Overall, I enjoyed this book so much and truly recommend to those looking for something similar to the Ivies & They Wish They Were Us (solely based off of what other people have said & the synopses of these books).Content Warnings:Murder (off page), drug abuse, verbal abuse, possible physical abuse, bullying, racism (one scene), student/teacher relationship (power imbalance), academic anxiety, financial anxiety
7820456561	jak ja się cieszę, że w końcu to skończyłam. zajęła mi zdecydowanie za dużo czasu jak na to jaka była OKROPNAostrzegam spojlerykorekta była czasami wątpliwa, źle odmienione wyrazy albo znikające literki, oprócz tego tłumaczenie i te dziwnie brzmiące kalki z angielskiego.."och, masz jakiś problem, bro?" już w ogóle mnie pokonałobohaterowie. o boże, jak ja ich wszystkich nienawidzęjedyną postacią, którą polubiłam był Alexander, bylo mi go tak szkoda i byl doslownie jedyną osobą, która zachowywała się jak normalny i całkiem dobry człowiek. he deserved sm better i ciesze się, ze ostatecznie nie biegał dalej za Nancy tylko sobie odpuścił, bo inaczej byłabym jeszcze bardziej wściekłaNancy jest TAKA głupia, nie wiem jak wytrzymalam z tak męczącą główną bohaterką i narratorką. cały czas mówi o wadach Jamie, jaką jest manipulatorka, jak się wywyższa i mści na wszystkich, zeby dojsc do celu, ale cały czas jej broni, jest jej jej żal i nie chce żeby ktoś mówił o niej źle. dziewczyno, zdecyduj się, błagam. plus jest durna i nie rozumie czemu "taka bogata perfekcyjna dziewczyna, która ma wszystko" jest smutna. rozumiem, ze jestes o to zazdrosna ale jestes najlepsza w najlepszej szkole w Stanach, wiec dlaczego masz 2iqPetera wolałabym nawet nie komentować, ale to mój błąd za nie przeczytanie trigger warnings przed kupieniem książki.. ten wątek był taki dziwny i po prostu nienawidzę tego człowiekajeszcze to, że wszyscy głaskali Akila po głowce tak jakby zażywanie narkotyków, jeszcze, żeby oszukiwać w sportach bylo super. it's not! nie wierze ze to trzeba mówić, ale główni bohaterowie chyba muszą to usłyszećwiększość plot twistów przewidziałam, a ten ostatni, najważniejszy dla fabuły był po prostu tragiczny, gorszy niż w "Ukrytej Prawdzie", wymuszony i tak nierealny, że glowa mała. szkoda, bo sama zagadka była jedynym co trzymało mnie przy tej książce, aby ją dokończyćjedyne plusy, które znalazłam w tej książce, to:- wątek mamy Nancy, tragizm poświęcenia całego życia dla sukcesu córki i to, jak ich relacja sie na końcu pozytywnie rozwinęła- problem ogólnie pojętego rasizmu i nierówności klas społecznych, jak ciężko jest wejść biedniejszym uczniom na szczyt. to było całkiem znośnie przedstawionestrasznie męczyły mnie ciągłe powtórzenia o przekraczaniu niewidzialnej granicy, przeciąganie akcji, która jest przesadnie filmowa i bardzo corny, a na dodatek to nieszczęsne próbowanie stworzenia klimatu dark academia, w który tym razem w ogóle nie uwierzyłam i nie uratował mi tej książkipodsumowując; oklepany, ciągnący się w nieskończoność niby-głęboki "kryminał/thriller" z bohaterami, za którymi nie chce się podążać i zakończeniem, które nic tylko zawodzi. minimalnie broni się dobrym podejściem do problemów mniejszości1.25/5⭐️
4175117233	shiiiisshh i actually finished this book.this was so bad😭😭 i hated the characters, they are so unlikable. the main character is ALWAYS pitying herself and hating everyone. she has some kind of complex where she THINKS she deserves to be the best on the other she keeps blaming her situation, for not being the best, being poor and bla bla bla.the way the words "secret" was kept being used, i nearly lose my mind back there, and the secrets WERE horrible but it was being dismissed so easily lol it was a joke really. like one secret was revealed, the whole school was talking about it for like a day, and then poof, it's like the secret doesn't exist anymore?? like i thought it's gonna ruin life or somethinggod the writing was also.. i don't know i can't stand it.i hate it so much i can't express how much i hate it.the ending was stupid, honestly wtf was that?? the characters are STUPID, like??? y'all are in this prestigious high school with high scores bla bla bla BUT,, my god they're freaking dumb when it comes to finding the culprit. like they're not even trying damn.also the fact that THERE WAS NO CLUES, no build up whatsoever, so when the culprit was revealed it was so random, and underwhelming. they don't even bother to find clues about the "Proctor",, it was just... weird. also, in the beginning there was a police investigation but it was never mentioned again lol. the whole thing was messier than my closet. i just hate it so much,,, especially the mc,,, girl,, seek help.
3966838639	After finally having read How We Fall Apart , I am going to say this book was everything I wanted. I was on the street team for this and my name even appears in the acknowledgements (so cool ahhh!!!) so I was excited to read this. HWFA had captured the perfect picture of dealing with your parents expectations, the pressure to do well in everything and just how stressful academics can be in general. On top of that, the characters have to deal with a murder. That they are suspects in. The mystery in this book was a little bit hard to figure out and I only managed to get it pages before it was revealed. The suspects are many, but the actual culprit is someone you never expect hehe. The pacing of this book is perfect and it moves fast enough, keeping you on your toes. All in all, if you're looking for a relatively fast-paced murder mystery, then this book is perfect for you!
4455413623	the blurb says its ‘one of us is lying’ meets ‘crazy rich asians’ and its so bloody accurate.the murder mystery is VERY similar to one of us is lying but the end is a twist that i didn’t even think of. there’s a lot of asian american struggles entwined throughout the plot and i thought it was pretty good asian rep, it was all relatable and shows the lengths children of immigrant families will go for their parents. (also theres like an asian trio who rule the school and it was giving very much F4 meteor garden boys over flowers)anyway definitely worth a read👍👍
4855703552	The Asian representation, dark academia, and character secrets did really draw me in - it was an enjoyable and easy read that I read in one sitting! I wasn't a huge fan of the end though (it felt very sudden and dramatic and, while it was a good plot twist, there were no hints or foreshadowing throughout the rest of the book at all to allude to it.) However, it was very unique in a lot of ways and I did overall really like it.
4276985697	*Review to come*
3913434255	Disappointing...
3233443152	RTC
4545308537	The ending?????
4574801852	It was rly good until the ending which kinda threw me off
5535406170	disappointed… it was giving gossip girl, insecure girlies and boys, crazy parents, psychos and dead people. so yeah but somehow it still kept me reading soooo there had to be something
4843729829	How We Fall Apart was centered around the pressure that top students at an elite private school face and the dark secrets that comes along with the pressure.I really appreciated reading about something I could relate to, and it reminded me of the struggles of a lot of peers face with mental health.
4008666880	~How We Fall Apart Review~•2/5•I saw someone talk about this on TikTok so you know i had to request it! I love a good majority Asian cast and i’ve been in the mood for a murder mystery so I’m so thankful I got approved for this one on Netgalley! It’s been described as Asian Gossip Girl meets One Of Us Is Lying and I can’t wait to explore the drama!•Pros:+ I love how this begins with going over the trigger warnings. I think it’s super important because there are a lot of darker themes in this book. Please make sure to check the TW’s before starting!+Will once again mention how much I love seeing Asian main characters! +sometimes dramatic stories like this one are super fun. like yes i know that everything and everyone in this is a stereotype but a good cliche story never hurts. +it’s like fan fiction writing!!+Revolves around a pretty important topic. There is so much pressure on kids these days to be perfect and do too much. college admissions is a broken system+ bi and lesbian characters•Cons:-books that jump around in time always confuse me. i know why it has to be done but it doesn’t mean i have to like it-writing is a bit repetitive at times-a bit faced past-honestly pretty predictable and at times boring-couldn’t root for any of the characters because you didn’t really get to know them at all past their stereotype and secret-the big reveal fell flat and the end wasn’t satisfying imo•I can’t say i hated or loved this book. I finished it cause i had to but i don’t feel like this is a book i’ll remember in 2 weeks. there were some important lessons squeezed into the pages but the overall dramatic ness of the book makes it hard to like. I’d recommend checking it out for yourself to see if it’s something you’re interested in!
4182712075	⌜★★★★★⌟๑ How we fall apart #1✼ ----------- ✼ "A kid at ur school died, and my parents' biggest concern is my calc grade"Llevo años buscando este tipo de thrillers y finalmente me lo traen. Aparte, lo mucho que me sentí identificada con todo el libro, debe ser un red flag seguro.Es como ver Mean Girls y Élite convertidos en un libro; con unos toques de Carrie y algún thriller adolescente que ya hemos visto alguna vez. Si no te he convencido de leer el libro hasta ahora, algo estoy haciendo mal.Anyway, la autora empieza fuerte creando interés en nosotros por saber quién es Jamie Ruan y por qué nuestra protagonista está tan preocupada por ella. Para finalizar el capítulo con un mensaje anónimo que deja con los pelos de punta a todos en el auditorio. "The whispers quieted but didn't stop. Here at Sinclair Prep, the whispers never stopped" Fue imposible dejar de leer la historia de cada personaje, junto a la cuenta regresiva de nuestro anonimo que amenaza con destapar los secretos de los mejores amigos de Jamie. Es una carrera contra el tiempo, donde no todos podrán llegar a la meta.Los secretos que se iban develando a cada paso me tenian de los nervios. Pero, ¿cómo es posible que todo esto pase en una secundaria? En la mía, el mayor escándalo era que un profesor faltara. Como sea, el ambiente escolar solo lo hace más interesante, más aun si tienen una app de chismorreo para ellos. Esas cosas son re peligrosas para cualquier adolescente, ok? ok. "Honestly who needs to watch Asian dramas when you go to Sinclair prep?" Además, como el libro intercala capitulos actuales con los recuerdos de cada cosa que pasó en la escuela; nos echa pistas que, como la despistada que soy, no pude ni recolectar. Y sí, Jamie parece ser la villana, pero tbh aquí todos podrían pasar por villanos, porque ninguno es inocente del todo. Y eso lo hace más realista, sabes. Pude sentir simpatía con Jamie, Kiara, Alex o Akil; pero al mismo tiempo cuestionar todas las decisiones que tomaron.Del final, no te quiero contar nada, porque quiero que lo disfrutes (o lo sufras). Anyway, next.Más allá de la trama que, para mí, fue maravillosa con todas sus letras; hablemos de la diversidad y de la inclusión. Creo que es la primera vez que leo un ya que no tiene a sus típicos protagonistas, and I love it. Nos dan guiños a sus culturas (especialmente a la asiática, que está muy presente). Tiene un poco de problemas de carácter social, dándonos la historia de una familia inmigrante y todo lo que tienen que pasar con el proposito de conseguir el sueño americano.Es una novela que funciona muy bien con adolescentes (eso sí, deberíamos considerar todos los tw que nos dan al principio, que son bastante) porque encuentras muchos puntos en común y situaciones donde sientes que tú eres la protagonista. El tener esa presión de cumplir expectativas, de devolver todo lo que tus padres hicieron por ti, de saber que si no eres inteligente o rica o millonaria, no eres nada. No sé, creo que fue donde hice conexión. "There was so much I could have said in that momentI'm sorry you gave up everything.I'm sorry I couldn't give you the world in return" Ya para terminar: Las vibras que me da este libro son muy hermosa. El inglés no es tan complicaddo así que pueden leerlo con un nivel básico, no se me hizo tan dificil.Gracias por venir a mi TED Talk.
3233445668	I'm going to keep this review short since this is a mystery/thriller.This is a pretty quick read that has good pacing throughout. Nancy is a scholarship student at an exclusive prep school. Her best friend/enemy, Jamie, is found dead and the school is receiving anonymous messages about it from someone named The Proctor. The Proctor is threatening to tell the secrets of Jamie's best friends, insinuating that one of them killed Jamie. Each of them does have a pretty big secret that could ruin their chances at going to top colleges. Nancy never feels like she really fits in. Her parents were immigrants. Her father went back to China and her mom works two jobs. The other kids have enough money to buy their way out of problems. Nancy is determined to be the best and with Jamie gone, that becomes possible. But she needs to find The Proctor and stop them from ruining all their lives.I gave this book four stars. Thank you to the publisher and Edelweiss for my review copy.There are a lot of warnings in the author's note in the beginning. It includes things like talk of suicide, drug use, inappropriate relationships, fire, murder. Please read the note for the full list.
2687990380	*Spoiler free*I don't know how long I've been excited for this book, but it has to have been for a very long time. Maybe even since the deal announcement? The point is, I've been looking forward to this book for awhile. Katie is a gem and it sounded incredible. A group of four friends tries to uncover the true murderer of their former friend, while trying to keep their own secrets safe and maintain their perfect GPAs. It sounded like it would be a thrill of a thriller, and I couldn't wait to read it! Trigger warnings: abuse, self-harm, violence, parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, an inappropriate student/teacher relationship, racism, suicidal thoughtsThis book was just as good as I was hoping it would be.There were things about this book that I didn't completely fall in love with. The murder mystery on the surface was enough to keep my entertained, but I'm so finicky when it comes to thrillers. But when I look at what was done underneath everything, at the message this book is trying provoke and tell, I can't help but be in awe of it. Because it portrays that so well. It's so much more than just a thriller. It's about the highly competitive nature of schools, about the ignorance surrounding mental health in students, about the burden students of color feel they have to carry, about the fire that burns within some people, the yearning to come out on top. It's a book about how we fall apart, how we're pushed to falling apart, and how we can pull others down with us.Alright, onto the writing, because this writing was made this book feel like it did and made it as effective as it was. Zhao's writing felt blunt, stark, and to the point. It doesn't flower and it doesn't hide behind unnecessary language. That doesn't mean there aren't beautifully crafted sentences and phrases that are going to stick with me for a long time though. This book busted down the door to make a point, and the writing reflects that.I did not expect to fall in love with Nancy as much as I did, and I didn't realize I fell so hard until I finished the book. There a fire in her. A determination that sweeps into desperation is inside her, driving her. She carries so much, so much weight, so many expectations, so much want. There's a darkness that lurks in her, and wow, was it something to see it flash behind her eyes from time to time.I also really, really liked the other three characters that made up Nancy's friend group. They all carry that determination that sweeps into desperation, but it shows itself in different ways. The pressure affects everyone in different ways.This book was wrench to the heart, a gut punch, a horrifying, but stark read. It's deals with such painful topics, which makes for an incredibly painful book. But it's so good at the same time.
4045868248	how we fall apart was described as an asian dark academia ya thriller when i first found out about the book and also blurbed as crazy rich asians meets one of us is lying (aka two of my favorite series) and though i don’t quite agree this is dark academia, it is definitely the latter. so if you’re going to read this book in hopes of getting dark academia… honestly throw that expectation away before you get disappointed. the only reason i’m saying that is because i feel people would enjoy this book more if they weren’t expecting dark academia. hwfa is about our mc nancy who is a scholarship student at ny’s exclusive sinclair prep. she’s a successful student with a hidden secret, and when her friend and academic rival, jamie, dies, anonymous messages point towards her and her friends who also have hidden secrets within themselves as the murderers. i loved this book! it was definitely one of us is lying-esque and it was just a fun little mystery thriller to read. as a highly stressed out student with a lot of pressure from peers and family, this was kind of relatable in terms of their academic problems. also i like the commentary about peer pressure, class, and the academic pressure that school/family unnecessary gives us and the impact of it in ourselves. one thing i would like to talk about is the friendship between these 5. although i agree w reviews saying it was poorly explained abt how they managed to be friends, i think it was pretty realistic on why they became friends, especially in such a highly pressured school environment where in my experience, the smart ones would usually become closer albeit having that toxic rivalry between each other. also the friendship between jamie and nancy was toxic, that one was obvious from the start, but i liked how katie writes the internal dilemma nancy has about being friends with jamie, hating her but also wanting to please her and love her at the same time because it was extremely realistic to a past friendship i had gone through before. also i’m glad that even though jamie’s past was written such way to give us a reason behind her actions, the author didn’t come off as making us want to sympathize with her. the one thing that made me remove points off this book was the unnecessary age gap romance. ugh. although i understand that it was made clearly to tell us that it is wrong and shouldn’t have happened, i feel like it could’ve been avoidable from the start imo. also i wished we could’ve gotten more depth from the story but alas it was still a really great read and i enjoyed bingeing this immensely. thank you to bloomsbury and netgalley for the e-arc!
3968695720	Richard Sinclair Prep is America's best performing high school in all aspects and students from different background fight tooth and nail to remain on top of this prestigious institute that promises a brighter future.Nancy Luo, a full-scholar, always strives for the best but wasn't able to exceed Sinclair's queen bee, Jamie Ruan.Until Jamie was found dead and whispers start in the hallways about who Jamie's killer is. Then came the mysterious messenger who named themselves The Proctor and they are here to unveil all the secrets of Sinclair including the dark past of the academe's brightest students which list Nancy and her friends Krystal, Alexander, and Akil - all were Jamie's former friends.Okay, don't expect a decent review from me because mystery-thriller is not my main cup but I really enjoyed this one. Imagine a dark academia storyline with life-changing stakes featuring an ensemble of BIPOC characters and you have this book.I enjoyed the writing style - it gave me the atmosphere of how intense the competition in Sinclair Prep is and the mystery of who killed Jamie Ruan.Nancy Luo, Alexander Lin, Krystal Choi, and Akil Patel may be the best students of Sinclair after Jamie but their characters were written well in a way that they feel like morally-gray characters whom you are unsure whether to cheer or snitch on as the story move forward.The story was going well until the reveal of who The Proctor is. I'm not a big fan of the twist because it felt a bit unrealistic but anyway, I'm still looking forward to the second book especially with the way things ended (*coughs Jamie's father + Sinclair's Golden Trio) What's in this book: Asian-American rep (second generation children of Chinese, Indian immigrants) I highly recommend if you enjoy: Dark Academia booksTrigger warnings: Abuse, Self-harm, Violence, Parental neglect, panic attacks, drug use, mental illness, inappropriate student-teacher relationship, racism, suicidal thoughtsRATING: 4 stars
4803005679	1 Sentence Summary: When Sinclair Prep’s golden girl Jamie Ruan dies, her four former best friends—Nancy, Alexander, Akil, and Krystal—are the main suspects, and each of them has a big secret of their own to hide, but maybe not as big as the secret that brought the five of them together in the first place.My Thoughts: This was definitely a page turner (I finished it in an hour lol). It had major One of Us Is Lying vibes, but with Asian representation (which was awesome). It was an enjoyable and suspenseful read, but my main complaints were:1. It just didn’t feel very original2. The characters were underdeveloped3. None of the plot twists seemed even remotely realisticOverall not bad, but not the best.Oh, and the ending????? My sister recommended this to me and DIDN’T TELL ME IT WAS BOOK 1 IN A SERIES so I was not prepared for that CLIFFHANGER! And book 2 isn’t out yet 😭😭😭 (It’s like Julie & the Phantoms all over again *cough cough* you know who you are.)Recommend to: People looking for a quick high school murder mystery thriller.(Warnings: swearing; underage drinking; drug use; teacher/student relationship; death)
3924322359	This YA thriller follows Nancy Luo, who is desperate to be the best in her school. But when her biggest academic rival Jamie Ruan is found murdered, an anonymous person starts sending texts to the whole school blaming Nancy and her friends and exposing their secrets. Now, Nancy must find out who really killed Jamie before her biggest secret gets leaked…This was such a gripping, fast read! It’s a pretty short book so it’s perfect for getting out of a reading slump. I didn’t totally vibe with the writing style because I found it a little simplistic/straightforward, but that just means that this book is perfect for you if you’re not a fan of flowery language.Katie Zhao is a master of weaving flashbacks and the main story together, and her twists kept me guessing all the way through. I didn’t see the ending coming at all! I also loved the morally gray cast of characters.Basically if you’re looking for something short, fast, twisty, and easy to read that still incorporates complex themes, this one’s for you :DCWs: Racism, violence, panic attacks, self harm, parental neglect/abuse, suicidal thoughts, violence, drug use, inappropriate student/teacher relationship.
