3855446666	honestly scared of what i'll become when i've read everything by shirley jackson.this was a slow start but was eventually eerie and captivating and really no one has ever done it like she has!!!it's scary how accurate this is to the college experience in spite of being a bajillion years old and horror-adjacent.i guess also college is horror-adjacent.and in many ways a bajillion years old.bottom line: is there a shirley jackson fan club i can join? i seek my fellow freaks and weirdos
1705798931	Shirley Jackson writes mysteries where the mystery is, do you live in a sane world? Is it mad? Is there magic? Is it good or bad magic?Natalie Waite isn't sure she exists at all:Or even suppose, imagine, could it be true? that she was confined, locked away, pounding wildly against the bars on the window, attacking the keepers, biting at the doctors, screaming down the corridors that she was someone named Watalie Naite..."And later: "'We are on a carpet,' she announced soberly. 'It unrolls in front of us, but in back of us it rolls up and there is nothing under it.'" Shirley Jackson would have loved the theory that we're all sprites in a computer simulation in some entirely other civilization. Or maybe she would have shrugged and said yeah, obviously.Until recently Jackson was best-known for her short story The Lottery, frequently assigned in high school during a segment that invariably also includes Ray Bradbury's All Summer in a Day. Her novels are gaining recognition now, though, as she moves forward to join a cohort of savage women like Joyce Carol Oates and Muriel Spark. Her best-known books are Haunting of Hill House and We Have Always Lived in the Castle. They have a gothic feel. They're about outsiders. They sit alone at cafeteria tables because Carson McCullers and Emily Bronte are alone at tables in other cafeterias.Hangsaman was Jackson's second novel, and it's not entirely tightly wound. Its plot is messy. It can be divided into three parts. (view spoiler)[In part one, Natalie hangs out with her shitty, pompous writer dad. She is possibly raped. This will not come up again. Part two puts on the coat of an academic novel about her shitty life at college. She's lonely and badly depressed. She's used by two girls, at least one of whom is fucking her married professor, as a distraction.In part three she has what looks like a nervous breakdown and considers suicide with the help of an imaginary friend. You may find yourself flipping back through the book to see if Tony has come up before. She has not.You had best figure out for yourself that Tony doesn't exist. You'll have to decide for yourself about that rape, and whether Natalie is the dorm thief of the second part. (hide spoiler)] Jackson doesn't really lay any of it out for you. She asks a lot from you, and it can be a little frustrating.The Three Shirley Jackson Books I've Read, In Descending Order Of Plot TidinessWe Have Always Lived in the Castle Haunting of Hill House Hangsaman But listen, she still has yet to write a single sentence that I haven't loved. She hits this sweet spot for me: she's unique but accessible. The other day we were talking about what author we'd recommend to a non-reader who wanted to try a "classic"; I said Shirley Jackson. My answer to a lot of questions is Shirley Jackson. She's one of my actual favorites.Appendix: Books MentionedThe book Tony reads to Natalie ("Alice came out of her room with only her shoes and stockings on...") is The Way of a Man with a Maid, an anonymous 1908 BDSM novel that's decent for what it is. What it is is smut. Obviously I read and reviewed it.The fun but not super informative foreword by Francine Prose mentions a college class she taught called "Strange Books." Obviously we all wish we were there. The syllabus, as far as she tells us, included:- Jakob von Gunten by Robert Walser- The Street of Crocodiles by Bruno SchulzAnd unspecified works by:- Nikolai Gogol (here's a good collection)- Heinrich Kleist (author of The Marquise of O)- Jane Bowles (Two Serious Ladies is so fucking cool)- Henry Green (Party Going is strange and wonderful)- Wallace Shawn (the dude who played the smartest man in the world in Princess Bride? He writes?)- Roberto Bolaño (2666 is really something else)- Felisberto Hernández (I dunno)- Dezső Kosztolányi (she mentions Skylark in one interview)- Hans Christian Anderson (that guy)(I did some research online and fleshed the list out a bit, but found no more specifics. Have emailed her begging for the exact reading list. I am a thorough person.)(Update: she didn't write me back. Sad me.)
985811009	I have never read anything like HANGSAMAN. It is chilling, hyper-surreal, and told with a mind-altering narrative voice. HANGSAMAN is like shooting a cocktail of vodka and meth: it's weird, burns like hell, and you don't come down from those fever dreams the same person you were before the experience. The most amazing thing about HANGSAMAN is that, on the surface, nothing happens. A girl, Natalie, attends a dinner party where she is possibly assaulted, starts college, drinks a lot of martinis with professors, and goes on long, thought-addled walks. This doesn't even sound like a story worth reading, and that's where Jackson works some voodoo. She manages to create a dense atmosphere of isolation that permeates the spaces between the non-events. Even the trauma that triggers Natalie's increasingly strange psychological break doesn't "happen" in the usual sense of events unfolding on a page. Instead, Jackson gives the reader access to only the reverberations of the event. This is either a masterful literary technique, or dark magic, and I'm placing bets on the latter. The story received through the twisted and unreliable narrator who recites Natalie's thoughts is fascinating, in the way a fish hook piercing flesh is sickly fascinating. Natalie doesn't fit in, and the details of life in an all-girls dorm is unimpeachable, including the strange spate of random thefts. Several girls report being slapped awake in the middle of the night, but are too startled to identify the culprit. Is it Natalie, slapping and stealing? There are plenty of clues it probably, maybe is - but HANGSAMAN is not a novel of absolutes. Jackson litters the work with half-hints I read with the excitement of discovering something amazingly rare in a pile of moldering leaves. For example, Natalie writes gut-wrenching letters home to her father, but the missives may or may not have been intercepted by her mother. Natalie may or may not be in a sexual relationship with a girl in the dorm, or Natalie may or may not "simply" have an alternate personality brought on by the trauma that we never see directly. The narrator is a wily one, and it is unclear where Natalie ends and the narrator begins. The two bleed into one another until you cannot distinguish your vantage within the story. This is part of Jackson's dark magic: she gives you direct access to the experience of a deeply disturbed mind, but without the gimmicky feel of first person. Indeed, having an "I" in HANGSAMAN would change the texture of the work, damage it irreparably. Natalie's entire problem is she has no idea who she is, and just as she was on the cusp of discovery, trauma knocked her from being a bit overly imaginative into being batshit crazy. Natalie has no "I," and Jackson wisely steers clear of trying to force one. Jackson leverages the strange, blended narrative persona to excellent effect right from the opening scenes. A detective "interrogates" Natalie… in her mind. It is only on a second (or third) read that it sinks in that the exchange between Natalie and her imaginary detective is so very, very strange because the detective is prescient. His questions can be applied to multiple situations that arise throughout the novel, and it is illuminating that at the time the questions are shared with the reader, they are entirely out of context. In some sense, it feels like Natalie's future self (the narrator?) is interjecting thoughts back into the past. It exacerbates the disorientation HANGSAMAN inspires, and it resonates with the strange psychology in us all.HANGSAMAN is a bizarre, nightmare trance. I came up from reading it feeling deeply affected, infected. The prose warped my mind. I found myself thinking like the narrator reporting Natalie's musings; it was disturbing. HANGSAMAN is not a book for anyone on the brink of a mental breakdown. It is a dangerous beast. It will swallow you whole. It is frightfully unique, and one of the most masterful novels I've experienced. ﻿
2534024701	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | “Dearest dearest darling most important dearest darling Natalie—this is me talking, your own priceless own Natalie.”Alice in Wonderland meets The Bell Jar in Shirley Jackson's much overlooked Hangsaman.The first time I read this exceedingly perplexing novel I felt confused. Although Hangsaman shares many similarities with Jackson’s more well known novels (yet again we have a disaffected, hypersensitive, and alienated heroine), this is her most elusive work.A second and third reading however made me much more appreciative of this peculiar anti-bildungsroman. What I previously thought of as being a confounding narrative with an unclear storyline became a clever take of the three-acts typical of a monomyth. Hangsaman focuses on Natalie Waite, a troubling young woman whose intolerance towards others makes her retreat into a series of disturbing fantasies. The narrative chronicles Natalie’s attempts to navigate the murky waters of adulthood. However, Natalie’s journey into adulthood is not only essentially negative but concludes ambiguously. Readers will find Natalie’s self-alienation, which dictates her behaviour and thoughts as well as shaping her worldview and imagination, alienating, as we are left wondering just how unreliable a narrator she is. At the age of seventeen, Natalie believes that “she had been truly conscious only since she was about fifteen” and lives “in an odd corner of a world of sound and sight past the daily voices of her father and mother and their incomprehensible actions”. Forced into daily tête-à-têtes with her pompous writer-father—who enjoys disparaging Natalie’s creative writing—and made to listen to her neurotic and alcoholic mother’s diatribes against marriage, Natalie’s relationship with herself and others is already mired in ambivalence. In order to please her father Natalie has spent most of her life pretending to be someone she is not, and her self-alienation partly stems from this forced concealment of her ‘real self’ The disjunction—or split—between Natalie’s “inner” self and her outer “personality” causes her to feel divorced from her own experiences and leads to her self-alienation, forcing her to create a provisional ‘new’ personality.On campus, Natalie’s only connection to her father is through their correspondence, and in these letters she glamorizes her college experience. In reality, college is not the ‘new start’ Natalie had hoped for. As she is constantly in the presence of other girls, Natalie struggles to maintain a ‘personality’ akin to those whom she regards “trivial people” and “mediocre” . Her self-alienation induces her to view her own personality as ‘alien’, permeating her the way she thinks, perceives, feels, and behaves with a sense of unrealness. No longer under her father’s watchful eye, Natalie’s unease increases and her unfixed personality distorts her worldview, leading her to speculate whether her name is truly Natalie or if she as appropriate another girl’s identity. She is scornful of sororities, rejects offers of friendships, and regards with contempt the books, subjects, and theories that she is meant to be studying.In an attempt to find and assert her own individuality, she seeks refuge in her own writing, deriving strength from this process, and in her make-believe magic. Although she becomes briefly involved in the domestic life of one of her professors (this particularly rocky marriage seemed rather autobiographical) it is only when she meets the mysterious and alluring Tony that Natalie is able to connect to someone. The confounding narrative of Hangsaman is peppered by odd interactions and monologues that are often as amusing as they are bizarre. The storyline begins with an extended scene in which Natalie’s parents are hosting a party at their house. The party is not a fun affair, and Natalie is involved in an incident that may or may not have actually happened (yeah, I know). The details around this episode remain blurry, and readers will have to draw their own conclusions. Although at college Natalie becomes increasingly divorced from her self—unsure of her name, qualities, and her very existence—it is this very act of self-doubting which drives Natalie’s quest for a suitable identity. As she grows contemptuous of the people she interacts with—students and professors alike—she attains self-validation through her own writing and imagination where she can contemplate grandiose visions of her self. Since Natalie, similarly to Jackson herself, equates normalcy with a loss of individuality, in her imaginary worlds she examines the depths of her own awareness and identity by endowing herself with magical gifts and powerful personalities (she is a ‘mercenary’, ‘gladiator’ and ‘creator’). The subversive components of her fantasies, which often build upon her fears—such as dying—and desires—such as being revered—enable her to exorcise personalities and futures that do not resonate with her. Natalie’s exploration of her self, and of the different realities that may or may not be attainable, is spurred by her self-alienation. Within these narratives, Natalie confronts the dangerous and alluring world of maturity alternating between being a victim and the perpetrator of violence. By proving to herself—and the readers—that she has the strength to defy, resist and even harm others, Natalie can finally become enfranchised from her controlling father and depressed mother. Jackson’s narrative, fraught with ambivalence, culminates ominously, leaving readers wondering what was real and what wasn’t. In spite of the many disquieting and or perplexing moments/scenes in this novel, Jackson's offbeat humour makes for a truly entertaining read. Note: the first time I read this I gave it 3 stars. This third time around I am giving it 5 stars. While I now consider it an all time favourite, I did not know what to make of it the first time I read it….so perhaps you should approach this novel with caution. Although it has many Jacksonesque motifs (female doubles, themes of alienation and paranoia, dark humour, misanthropic characters, witchcraft) it is a far more slippery creature than her more well-known works.
5054919888	Sentence for sentence, Shirley Jackson is one of the great prose stylists in English literature. To my astonishment, Hangsaman is, if anything, a better novel than We Have Always Lived in the Castle or The Haunting of Hill House—stranger, more complete in and of itself, if also more difficult and more distressing. The satire is funnier and truer (no wonder the other faculty wives did not like her!), the humor blacker, the horror and trauma of it somehow at once closer and further from the surface. Jackson's uncanny ability to hold reality itself in a state of suspense reaches a sublime peak, from which we can only look down in giggling horror at the tiny town arrayed beneath us, at the university with its carefully manicured lawns; from which peak we might, like Natalie Waite "pick up one of the houses, any one, and, holding it gently in one hand, pull it carefully apart … with great delicacy taking the pieces of it off one after another: first the door and then, dislodging the slight nails with care, the right front corner of the house, board by board … then the stairs, step by step, and all this while the mannikins inside run screaming from each section of the house to a higher and more concealed room, crushing one another and stumbling and pulling frantically."
6034858345	At a garden party held by her pompous writer father and neurotic mother, 17-year-old Natalie encounters a new guest; a woman who recognises something in her and divulges a secret. The woman's name is not really her name. The party progresses into a strange night that Natalie will not soon forget and the next day she must leave for college.Natalie is a wildly imaginative—and paranoid—teenage girl. As she navigates her first year away from home on this alien planet of a women’s liberal arts college, both her fragility and sharpness accentuate dangers that may be lurking: the cliquey house girls, the professor who married a student, the possessions that have begun to disappear from locked bedrooms. In that strange space between girl and woman, do you even really exist?'The gap between the poetry she wrote and the poetry she contained was, for Natalie, something unsolvable'There is so much to adore in this novel, if you’ve read any Shirley Jackson you’ll understand that under-your-skin quality of her writing. Like the best Gothic fiction, this blurs boundaries and warps reality through placelessness and surveillance. Natalie strains to make sense of the world around her which is in turn perceiving her. Rarely have I been haunted by the man who screams obscenities at me on the street, but I have been by the one on the train who will not take his eyes off me for the entire journey.The themes of occultism coupled with surrealism may be interpreted as supernatural; Natalie's obsession with the tarot, her comforting herself with thoughts of being burned alive—even the covens of girls that form. But equally, there is a tradition, and dare I say kin, to be found in the echoes of the Salem witches and other shunned women. Considering the oppression of purity, and the traumatic fracturing caused by loss of innocence and violation, these preternatural aspects become profoundly moving as metaphor and allegory, weaved throughout with such genius subtlety. As her psyche dissolves and God doesn't seem to be listening, where then to find power...‘Sometimes, with a vast aching heartbreak, the great, badly contained intentions of creation, the poignant searching longings of adolescence overwhelmed her, and shocked by her own capacity for creation, she held herself tight and unyield-ing, crying out silently something that might only be phrased as, "Let me take, let me create.”’What I appreciate most, in this and the other works of hers I’ve read, is the weight given to the mind-altering experiencing of navigating patriarchy and victimhood. I find her writing to be profoundly validating and moving. Because of course it is not horror fiction that for a young woman, danger is lurking. Is the madness in you, or in being dumped in the shadowy woods and expected to find your way home with a smile? Shirley Jackson was likely inspired by the disappearance of a female student from Bennington college, where her husband was employed. After delving into the world of Bret Easton Ellis (and of course Donna Tartt) Bennington has certainly taken on quite a mythological status and a spookiness akin to Thornfield Hall…'Little Natalie, never rest until you have uncovered your essential self. Remember that. Somewhere, deep inside you, hidden by all sorts of fears and worries and petty little thoughts, is a clean pure being made of radiant colours.'
2206402541	The opening chapter of Hangsaman is a confidence trick. (Also something that could be said of the book as a whole.) I wondered, at first, whether it was really for me. It seems to be offering a portrait of a middle-class American family in typical 1950s suburbia. The protagonist is their 17-year-old daughter, Natalie, and the lengthy scene depicts the Waites preparing for a garden party. While beautifully written, it contains little to intrigue other than Natalie's internal flights of fancy, the fictional worlds she places herself in even as she participates in the everyday routines of family life. And then, in the last few pages of the chapter, Natalie appears to experience a shocking trauma (described, like so many things in the story, indirectly). I was wrongfooted and irretrievably hooked.When Natalie goes away to college, she welcomes the promise of reinvention. 'It was, precisely, a new start.' It doesn't quite unfold as she hopes: Natalie struggles to make friends; the people she does connect with – a strange, delusional girl who knocks on her door at night, the alcoholic young wife of a professor, two girls who are trying to seduce said professor – present their own problems. Natalie can always retreat to 'her own sweet dear home of a mind, where she was safe, protected, priceless'. Yet of course this is also a trap. Jackson is, of course, known for her horror fiction; in Hangsaman, the biggest thing Natalie has to fear is overthinking. Which doesn't make it any less frightening. The climax is an ambiguous affair in which I found it difficult to distinguish Natalie's imagination from her reality, and I suppose that's the point. It is a mirror to the ending of the first chapter, both scenes taking place in a forest clearing, both demonstrating Jackson's skill in portraying Natalie's fractured identity. Uncertainty and precarity haunt this novel. I don't think it is meant to be fully understood.TinyLetter
3636394111	17 year old Natalie is becoming an adult. Before setting off to college, she attends a disastrous party and then finds herself increasingly isolated and fraught in her new surroundings. That is until she meets the mysterious Tony, another outcast at the school - but who is Tony really and what does she want with Natalie? Shirley Jackson’s second novel, Hangsaman, is only slightly better than her first, The Road Through the Wall, though that isn’t saying much as her first novel was utterly terrible. Hangsaman is better because Jackson has pared down the cast significantly. Rather than trying to write an ensemble, she instead focuses on the kind of character she would go on to perfect in her later books: a troubled young woman, socially ostracized, with a secret or two, and emotional/mental problems that escalate as the story goes on. That said, there’s not much about Natalie and her world that was particularly of interest. She’s introduced as already kinda unbalanced, being interrogated by an imaginary detective for an imaginary crime in her family home (which turns out to be foreshadowing), and she has a weirdly close relationship with her pretentious dad. The denouement of the party was sorta interesting if only for being one of the few eventful things that actually happens in the book! There’s a theme of sad wives married to dickhead academic husbands that I wonder isn’t autobiographical - Jackson expressing her true feelings in being married to her academic husband, Stanley Edgar Hyman (who was also unfaithful to her). I didn’t like Tony either - I called it immediately (view spoiler)[she’s not real (hide spoiler)] and the reveal wasn’t impressive, nor was the ending, which was flat. Mostly, I was really, really bored reading this. Nothing much happens. The academic couple Natalie befriends were dull, the things Natalie does and thinks are dull, the prose is dull - it’s just a very dull coming-of-age novel. If you’ve read Jackson’s later, much better novels, you can see the foundations for the types of story she would write superbly here, but it’s not enough to recommend Dullsaman even to fans of the author.
1189758947	Hangsaman is a strange novel by any standards; as if trying to remember a dream I feel the urge to write this blog quickly as I can, before it’s unique internal logic fades from my mind. Its central character is Natalie Whaite, a seventeen-year old American girl on the verge of going to college. The surface level events of the story are mundane, trite even: Natalie has bourgeois parents, and goes to a respectable girls-only college. But what happens externally is not really the point; this is a story about Natalie’s inner life, and how she reacts to and absorbs the world around her: parties thrown by her parents; the machinations of cliquey and spiteful college girls; the strangeness of returning to her family abode after months away. Transformed by Jackson’s inimitable prose, these mundane events seem vividly odd; sinister even. How much of this sense of threat is real and how much projected onto the world by Natalie’s precocious yet vulnerable psyche is one of the central ambiguities of the book.Right from the start it is clear Natalie has a vivid imagination; much like Eleanor from The Haunting Of Hill House, Natalie is someone whose propensity for daydreaming and fantasy seems alarmingly strong. If her urge for escapism is so dominant, what is she escaping from? Early on in the story a potentially traumatic event is hinted at, and it is clear that Natalie is repressing something – but exactly what occurred is opaque, repressed by Jackson’s narrative as much as by Natalie’s mind. Exactly what Natalie is thinking and feeling is often obscure – it certainly isn’t revealed directly in her chirpy interactions with a college professor and his young wife, or in her playful letters home to her father. But what the reader becomes alert to is the brief glimpses that Natalie might actually feel unbearably lonely and distanced from the world. And it’s easy to understand why Natalie might be so alienated, when it and the characters it is peopled with are presented with satirical humour by Jackson. In part this works so well because isn’t this how we see the world as a teenager, as something faintly unrealistic, as a joke being played on us? Because everything is focused through the character of Natalie, the differences in tone (the novel can be cruelly humorous one minute, and disturbingly sinister the next) don’t seem to jar. It shouldn’t work, but it does.As the book reaches its final third, it darkens considerably, and the exact extent of what is real and what Natalie imagines is unclear, with double and triple bluffs confounding the reader. It’s a compelling read, and despite similarities to The Bell Jar and The Catcher In The Rye, a unique experience. There’s no one quite like Shirley Jackson andHangsaman seems to me to be her first queer, twisted masterpiece.
1910623012	It occurred to me, back in October, that I probably read a lot more male authors than female--not because--at least I hope not because--I'm sexist, but because my culture is and one is nothing if not a product of many crosscurrents of life--culture, family, language, education, etc. etc. So, thanks to Goodreads I was able to chart just exactly how gender-skewed my reading is: 2012: 3/18, 2013: 11/45, 2014: 9/26, 2015: 8/41. Even by consciously choosing those books by females on my to-read shelf over the final months of 2016 I only managed to read 11/50 by female authors. This is not acceptable, I decided, and it must change. So right now 18 of my last 21 books read have been by female authors. Many of them have been terrific--in fact I see no correlation between gender and aesthetic literary quality at all--it's only the bias of the established cannon and my trying to read all of the great books, I suppose, that's unbalanced my reading by gender. But I must say, because I'm so much more aware of an author's gender at this particular moment, that this is the novel that I was looking for, waiting for.I don't think a man (of any gender, really, what I mean to say is someone with a man's experience of the world) could have written Hangsaman. This is a novel that's genius lies at the heart of female experience. I felt privileged to read it and enter into this mysterious world of female adolescence, alienation, imagination (coping mechanism?) and, ultimately, horror. No, it's not a Gothic like The Haunting of Hill House but its protagonist's alienation, subtle refusal, which grows into a near-abandonment of the world she knows but can only fear for the unknown (even suicide) is much more terrifying than any ghost story will ever be. It really touched a nerve.Amazing and extra chilling here--and I think part and parcel of female experience--is that Natalie isn't really allowed to have experiences the way men are. Man are encouraged to self-reflect, to criticize the world, to share their opinion, to feel that they're at the center of the world and to do what they please in answer to it. Early on (the novel is in three unnumbered sections, rather like a three-act play) we see Natalie's brother opting out of the patriarchy's cocktail party--even condescendingly offering to help Natalie escape with him. But, no, like most women, I surmise, Natalie's only validation is through the patriarchy itself, therefore abandoning her father's party would be the only thing worse than the awkwardness of attending it. It is awkward. She's raped in the end but appears to take it in stride: she has no language, apparently, to speak of it except once, later, in passing, as "the bad thing." We are, as I mentioned above, the product of our culture--see early 1950s USA suburban Middle Class--rape was not a thing spoken of. Natalie tolerates it. As her culture tolerates it. "..the gap between the poetry she wrote and the poetry she contained was, for Natalie, something unsolvable."In part two, Natalie goes to college to learn to write/speak, but only finds a further segment of her father (and lesser than he!) in a prof who admires her father and appears a much less active teacher than rapist himself--well, ok, diddler of students both in the form of having married one and of courting (to put it politely, as the novel itself does) another on the side. At any rate, Natalie's confusion, resentment and interior journey only grow more and more mysterious, awkward and detached. Her grammar is corrected, but she's still not given a language with which to speak her loneliness. And that sad soliloquy of resentment and displacement is the hardest thing to speak too, even for a man--how much worse to be part of a herd of girls being trained by an all-male faculty in a college that resembles a military academy, for all of its radically progressive shenanigans. No one is even there to listen should Natalie even learn to speak her experience.In this second section mysteries abound: there's a thief, there are voices in and out of Natalie's head, there are secret visitors in the dorms at night, un-serious initiations, threatening caretakers, there's a mysterious fellow loner girl who may be an imaginary friend or something even more perverse--we poor readers will never know the truth of it. I bring up the facts of the novel--which I normally never do in a review--because they're all, to me, replacements for the language Natalie's not learning, at college, to speak. The novel is mysterious because, without a proper language to speak it, Natalie's experience becomes this fragmentary series of disjointed mysteries. She can't really have experiences in any kind of normalizing narrative way--at least not in the male, literary/historical sense--because she hasn't the proper words with which to re-live and recount them.Where is she then, in the novel's third section? On a dark and seemingly casually chosen road with a mysterious companion. I don't want to spoil the ending--but I can't really because it's as ineffable as the rest. There's no language to speak Natalie's story in 1951, so it remains untold. Hangsaman is the story of its own impossible composition. Its message would appear to be: give me the words to tell the real story for without them I have no meaning. Nathalie's last words in the novel (really a feeling rather than a statement) might mean that, for a Middle-Class woman in the USA in 1951, adulthood meant coming to terms with one's muteness. Not only were people of color and gays invisible (as Ralph Ellison so eloquently put it) but women, too, blended silently into the woodwork all too conveniently.PS I forgot to mention that Shirley Jackson is the greatest composer of sentences in the English language. I used to think Hemingway, but Jackson's are just as brilliant and a tad less showy--remarkably beautiful, her sentences have the feel of a diamond cutting through glass with a clarity I thought impossible in English. I'm humbled.
4453909508	"Imagine, being people."It is extremely difficult for me to talk about Shirley Jackson because, as I've said on occasion, I see too much of myself in the things she writes. I think most of us habitual readers have that one writer who seems like the only person who has ever truly understood how we feel, no matter how distant s/he is from us in time and space. That writer, for me, is Shirley Jackson. And I don't mean this in that reconciliatory sense in which we say that books make us live the lives of Others, connect with other realities, of whatever other rose-tinted stereotype you prefer. (I'm not saying these things are not true; I'm saying they don't hold in this case for me.) I mean just this: had I been thousands and thousands of times more talented and prone to creative writing than I am in reality, I would have written exactly the things that Shirley Jackson wrote. And you have no idea how much that scares me.
2567507873	Edit: This was not a an actual review, but a very emotional and troubled response to what was an experience rather than a proper reading. I felt this book viscerally more than just read it. I wish I'd kept at distance from it so I could have appreciated it more. I've read a couple of reviews that made me appreciate it better, and I'm thankful for that. My perspective on it is definitely skewed, so you really shouldn't base your decision on it to decide whether you should read this novel or not. I’ve just finished this book and find myself deeply disturbed by it. I’ve read quite a few of Shirley Jackson’s novels and stories by now and never been as spooked as I have been by this one. A young woman, still just a girl, with an overbearing detestable writer father who is determined to mold her in his image and who sends her (unprotesting) to the college of his choosing is how I would describe the story in one sentence. The rest you can get from the publishers blurb. From the first lines of the novel there are clear signs that Natalie doesn’t simply have an “overactive imagination”, but that she is probably experiencing schizophrenic dissociative episodes, with ongoing elaborate fantasies of having committed a horrible crime. With such a mentally damaging father and a mother who has escaped into the numbing effects of alcohol, our girl seems to be left without defenses and things can’t possibly go well for her from here, and of course, they don’t. When she enters the all-girls college, predictably enough, she finds an even more hostile environment of cliques and hazings and not so subtle put-downs and she mostly isolates herself, and soon enough her flights of fancy take over and she become completely disconnected from reality with greater and greater frequency. This makes for some very interesting reading of the “Through the Looking Glass” variety and I have a strong intuition no author could come up with such original material without being cracked to begin with. That is probably one of the things that attracts me so much to dear Shirley, that I recognize the kindred spirit of one who uses those dark places to feed her creativity. So far I’ve been rather amused by Jackson’s writings, even (and especially) the nastier bits have made me chuckle, but here were echoes of true and terrifying madness... because utterly beyond comprehension. Was her friend Tony for example, encountered towards the latter part of the story, and with whom she formed an obsessive, and possibility sapphic bond, actually real? I don’t know if this question has been raised before, but I felt like our Natalie was so confused and miserable by then that she may no longer have been able to tell truth from her own fiction any longer. For my part, the only time I’ve ever felt quite this disturbed by a novel... I mean felt this particular register of disturbance, was when I read The Bell Jar at age sixteen or seventeen and was completely horrified to see a young woman just as, or possibly even more confused and crazy than me putting down her thoughts in book form. With Hangsaman, it felt like revisiting all those parts of a dreadfully painful, unmedicated adolescence and just how dangerous I felt I was to myself then... almost miraculously surviving those years against the odds, and how merciless the world was and continues to be to people who are as badly equipped to deal with the harsh realities of this world. How to rate a book that ended up making me feel so wretched?! I found it brilliant and completely relatable for the most part, and then it took me to places I swore never to return to, for I vowed never to read The Bell Jar again for how lingering it’s oppressive effect proved to be for me, plunging me into a dark and lasting depression. This was a completely different story of course, but just as confusing somehow. Thank heavens I’ve gained much in maturity in the intervening three decades or so and have learned how to live and survive with the Black Dog, since he chooses to be in residence on a rather regular basis. For anyone NOT suffering from an actual mental illness I suppose it might simply be an interesting and somewhat spooky ride into how scary the transition from childhood to womanhood can be. Once again, kudos to Shirley Jackson for never pulling any punches!
859505312	I've loved several of Shirley Jackson's other books but this time the magic spell didn't work on me, and when a spell fails, one is left with little to do but gawk at the occult paraphernalia involved in its casting, which are bound to ultimately seem at once baffling and quaint.Some of Jackson's other books are expertly engineered spell-casting machines, the parameters of every pentacle chosen for optimal potency, no sigil lacking even the smallest significant curlicue. This one is more of a Rube Goldberg apparatus, an assembly of lots of striking little pieces that don't seem to add up to the sum of their parts, much less more. When I Googled around in an effort to figure out what on earth it all meant, I found . . . a piece on Slate about the experience of finishing the book and Googling around in an effort to figure out what on earth it all meant.There were quite a few times in this book the protagonist's neuroses were so difficult for me to understand or relate to that I just wanted to say: oh, get over yourself. By contrast I never would have thought the same of other Jackson protagonists like Merricat or Eleanor. It's possible that the difference here is simply that I've personally experienced one kind of neurosis and not another. But it feels like more than that. The psychology in Hangsaman is as rambling and shaggy doggish as the plotting. Every time something new happened I wanted to annotate both the event itself and Natalie's response with a "?" as though they were chess moves.I suppose there is a certain unity there: Jackson's books inspire these simple and composed sorts of responses that can be boiled down to individual symbols. When I started reading We Have Always Lived In The Castle, my first status update on Goodreads simply read"!"Whereas anything I might want to say about Hangsaman really just boils down to"?"
2172747411	I've enjoyed Shirley Jackson's novels and short stories in the past, but Hangsaman just wasn't for me. I vacillated between confusion (what was happening? Who was real, and who was imagined?) and boredom. This is a novel of Natalie Waite, leaving her family home for college. What seems at first to be a place of new friendships and experiences soon turns out to be etched with loneliness and madness. The blurb tells us that this novel was based on a real life disappearance of a college student in 1946. I found myself wanting to know more about the actual disappearance, rather than reading about Natalie. The prose is intentionally confusing, shifting POVs and scenes quickly, before you get a concrete sense of where you are and what's happening. Natalie sometimes questions what she sees and experiences as reality, and those are the most lucid fragments of this novel.
4256315635	2,5/3*** Querida Shirley, isto não correu bem. Nem te reconheci, confesso. Foi por ser o teu segundo livro? Senti-me perdida no texto desde as tuas primeiras páginas, sempre à espera de um sentido para a ação que decorria e para cada personagem nova que surgia. E nada. Dei por mim a querer desistir desde cedo. Percebi o desnorte e o desmoronamento psicológico da tua Natalie, mas sei que podias ter feito muito melhor, como, de resto, sei que farás daqui para a frente. Por favor, nada temas e desculpa qualquer coisinha.
4002752442	“A vampire?” said Natalie. “I think it’s a werewolf. Look at its tail.”“More likely one of those hidden personalities, I’d say,” said Tony.Wow. In common parlance, that was a total mind-fuck.Review to follow.
1954668013	Enjoyable, weird, eerie, creepy, disjointed, dreamlike, fantastical. No more words.
4302726175	Expectations too often cloud our literary judgements. First reaching the end of Shirley Jackson’s Hangsaman, I felt confused and cheated. Just what’s happened to our principal character, the 17-year-old Bennington College student Natalie Waite? She had been lost in the woods, led on by another student named Tony – an adept with Tarot cards. Then she’s alone and then back in sight of the campus. I turned out the light and slept restlessly. Next day I realised the plot made perfect sense. What had put me off the trail were two assumptions: (1) Shirley Jackson wrote horror stories, most famously “The Lottery”; (2) Hangsaman was based on the unsolved disappearance of the Bennington student Paula Jean Welden in 1946, which occurred shortly after Jackson moved to Bennington. So, because Paula Jean was the model for Natalie and because Jackson wrote about horrible things happening to people, Hangasman ought to feature a horrific ending. But where was it?A glance at the volume of Jackson’s collected letters revealed that Jackson mentioned nothing about the disappearance of Welden when Hangsaman was in the works and that she did recall the search for Welden in a letter in 1960, but Jackson says nothing to connect it with her own fiction. I conclude that Natalie Waite owes nothing to Paula Jean Welden except perhaps for the notion of a Bennington student lost in the woods. And one doesn’t have to have read The Secret History to suspect that getting lost in the woods is a not infrequent occurrence amongst Bennington students. Though in Hangsaman drugs haven’t made their appearance on campus, the level of alcohol consumption by students and especially faculty is considerable. As someone who entered the academic sphere a couple of decades later, I can testify that if most professors may not have been high functioning alcoholics, they were indeed functioning pretty high much of the time.Some online commentators have suggested that Natalie was a rape victim in the early episode and that her father was abusing her. But as Natalie is quite clearly a fantasist it’s hard to tell what is supposed to be imaginary and what is real. I wonder if Jackson may have borrowed Mr. Waite’s orotund and pompous epistolary style from her husband Stanley Edgar Hyman. As a phantasmagorical rite of initiation to adulthood under the aegis of a young witch – that surely is what Tony represents – Hangsaman was a delightful find, though I doubt it will ever be one of Jackson’s more famous works. Anyone with the experience of growing up as an off-the-charts introvert should find Natalie someone you’d have liked to have as a friend.
672573319	Hangsaman, for me at least, is one of those books that, after you finish reading, you have to look to an external source to tell you what the hell you have just read. I'm still not sure. For awhile I wasn't even sure if one of the characters, Tony, was real.It may not capture the reader to the extent that We have Always Lived in the Castle, but one cannot help but be drawn into Natalie's world of paranoia. Shirley Jackson's characters are spellbinding even if their journeys are not always.Looking forward to my next foray into Jackson's fertile mind.
37153095	awful. i love shirley jackson but this was painful to get through. i forced myself to finish it. one wonders if it was simply published as a result of the success of the lottery and the sundial (both of which are referenced on the front and back copy of my edition), in that moment where an agent or editor flush with eagerness, and says, "you don't have anything else kicking around that we can publish now, do you?", and a writer unwisely unveils their first "great" unpublished novel, and is undone. i will re-read something else by her soon, to wash the stain of this away.
6944939891	Oh how I wish to have had read this when I was seventeen!! I would've been absolutely obsessed with this book.And I think the 17 year old who is somehow still tucked in the back of my brain is obsessed with this book. Hangsaman is Shirley Jackson's the Bell Jar, Girl Interrupted, Prozac Nation, Bunny... Told in three parts, the novella follows Natalie as she moves from living with her parents and younger brother to spending her first semester at college. Natalie is bookish, lonely, melancholic, traumatized... and struggles making friends conventionally. She eventually connects with her English teacher's wife, and later with another outsider. There's tarot cards, they're fantasies of destroying whole buildings, and there's a darkness in Natalie's head that is only found in teenage girls. The book is told in third person but with a heavy bias toward's Natalie's interpretation of events. And interpretation gets weirder and weirder.Highly recommended!! 4.75 stars that I may round up to an even 5.
4703172718	Books about girls losing their minds their first year of college are just an automatic win for me. And if they’re set at the college where I lost my mind, even better 🤠
5064551735	ABANDONADO! sabéis eso de que tras casi 150 páginas no pasa nada de nada con un lenguaje lleno de cultismos y en algunos casos unos diálogos infantiloides?.Tedioso hasta el hastío cuya temática es un drama, bajo mi punto de vista, muy mal narrado y estructurado, que resulta nada interesante.Extracto sacado de la novela:-“tu madre insiste en que pregunte por tu salud. Yo le digo que ya no es asunto nuestro, pero ella opina que el interés maternal se demuestra mediante una investigación escrupulosa de tú funcionamiento interno. Le gustaría saber si sufres algún problema de vista, en los pulmones, en los pies.”- 🤷🏻‍♀️Porque hay que decir que también es epistolar y honestamente aporta más bien poco.
2586098274	HANGSAMAN is Jackson's second novel, written in 1951. It was partially influenced by the story of Paula Jean Welden's disappearance in 1946 from Bennington College in Vermont. On the surface the novel at first appears to be a coming-of-age story about a seventeen-year-old girl, Natalie Waite, who is about to leave home for the first time and go to college but as the story progresses, it is apparent that all is not as it seems. The first part of the novel takes place at her home before leaving for school and focuses on her parents including her overbearing father who is a writer. The father likes to invite people over to the house on Sunday afternoons to discuss literature among other things. He also criticizes and encourages Natalie's writing. Most of the first section of the book describes a cocktail party where Natalie helps her mother serve the guests. But little odd things occur in Natalie's mind such as seeming to discuss things with a detective and then there is a rather shocking occurrence at the end of the first section. The second part of the book has Natalie at college where she is really scared and a fish out of water. She makes friends with the wife of her English professor and ends up often visiting the couple along with two other college girls where cocktails flow freely. Then the third part of the novel really gets quirky with Natalie obviously descending into a sort of mental hell.This again was another novel by Jackson where she describes the pains and pressures of life in the middle classes, this time going into the mind of a sensitive young woman going away from home for the first time. There were many aspects of the novel where Jackson leaves it to the reader to determine what was really happening especially in the third section. Overall, another well-written and thought-provoking story.
816217036	Hangsaman makes the case that it is an oversight of enormous proportions that the literary reputation of Shirley Jackson rests upon a handful of (albeit, perfectly constructed) short stories. One might hope that the 2013 Penguin reprints of her novels would correct this and help begin a critical re-evaluation of her work; certainly, one can see the roots of the critically acclaimed work of Russell, Van Den Berg, Bender and others in the mystery, humor and terror of Hangsaman. This novel, not Plath's The Bell Jar, may be the ur-text of late 20th century and early 21st century psychological realism and the fantastical realism that portrays the marginalization and alienation of young females disenfranchised with contemporary social norms and experience.Here, in Hangsaman, deeply imaginative Natalie Waite tries to shrug off an indifferent alcoholic mother, a domineering and arrogant father, and a completely indifferent brother, as well as a horrifying sexual assault, by rewriting herself in college. As a first-year student, she discovers and distances herself from the catty coteries in her dorm, and struggles to find real friends to stave off her deep loneliness. Unable to master or understand the social expectations of her dormmates, she spirals into a fierce depression until she meets her soul mate-- a girl named Tony, who may or may not turn out to be real. While I'll leave the diagnosis of Natalie to the experts, I can say that Jackson's deeply sympathetic writing, even when she seems to disagree with Natalie's choices, creates a potent and ironic metaphor for the compromise of self that many women felt and feel as they grow into adulthood. An amazing novel.
3983049748	It is important to note that the majority of the themes explored in this book deal with sensitive subject matters. My review, therefore, touches on these topics as well. Many people might find the subject matters of the book as well as those detailed in my review overwhelming. I would suggest you steer clear of both if this is the case. Please note that from this point forward I will be writing about matters which contain reflections on sexual assault of a minor, rape, self-harm, suicide, & others. I adore Jackson's writing style & this book did not disappoint. We are introduced to a character who teeters between her lived reality, her perception of reality & her illusions.Natalie is the main character of this story & in some instances the narrator of her own divide; she seeks to understand how a lived reality can be reliable when in truth, there is nothing securely confirming to us that what we live is real, nor that who we are is for certain. I am a person who very deeply enjoys this dialogue & therefore appreciated reading through Natalie's experiences of existential overwhelm. The first part of the novel explores Natalie as a child in her family home. We are introduced to her mother who constantly seeks to penetrate the wall Natalie has built between herself & her reality. Her mother often goes off on tangents in which she expresses desires that her life might have been different, that her marriage is a sham & that, once you are out in the world, people can seldom come back to the safe place they sought to escape.Natalie's father is something of a narcissist who is very invested in having people perceive him as being the smartest person in the room. Him & his daughter partake in weekly read-troughs of her own writings & he offers criticism as only an 'expert' can. I found this part to be very interesting as it did foreshadow much of what Natalie experienced throughout the second & third parts of the book; her father is involved enough in Natalie to want to ensure that she represents him in a positive light but, is not involved enough to seek to ensure her well-being as an individual person in society.Finally, Natalie has a younger brother, Bud, who is as one might assume, aloof & constantly distanced from the family circle, whereas Natalie appears to be deeply entangled in her parent's actions. The cataclysm of the first part which might be reflected on as being the basis for the life of a person, & their family, sees Natalie help her mother prepare for a Sunday afternoon gathering that her father organizes every week & for which a number of his peers are invited to discuss literature, politics & most assuredly, themselves. As Natalie's mother expresses to Natalie, once a woman leaves the family home, everything which has transpired might be regarded as having been better than what is happening to her now & one can never really go back to what once was because one must endure what is. Natalie's mother often reflects on the lack of happiness she feels in her own marriage & wants to save Natalie from having to go through the same events that she herself experienced. Natalie leaves her mother in tears as she cries about her daughter's fate in life & joins her father at the gathering in their garden to help serve beverages & finger foods. This is where she meets a mirage of a man who is revealed to be much older, the longer she spends in his presence. His voice is both a mystery in the words it is vocalizing & the secrecy in which is it spoken.Natalie is led to the trees where we previously found her enjoying the landscape. Though this scene is not explicit in stating what happens, it is clear that Natalie is sexually assaulted & is in fact raped. Many reviews have stated that this fact is never touched on again & isn't for certain but, in the second part of the novel it is, in fact, brought up again & the reader might certainly understand that Natalie carries the weight of her assault alone for the remainder of the book. When Natalie leaves for college she finds herself in a place where reality is even more blurry than it was in her family home. People are cruel, they act without reason & everyone around her seems to be playing the same game for appearances whereas, Natalie is struggling to find her place both academically & amongst her peers. She quickly garners the reputation for being peculiar & a recluse as no one really ever sees her around & she, herself, states that she wore the exact same outfit for a week straight, having no desire to change clothes.Where the assault is seen again is in the Frosh week initiation events. Natalie is in a room full of her peers & as a gag, some of the older girls are pushing the younger ones to reveal whether they are virgins & whether they know any dirty jokes. Natalie vocalizes the hope that she wouldn't have to answer the question as to whether or not she was a virgin. Later when speaking with a peer who assumes that both herself & Natalie aren't the same type of girls as the popular group, because they don't have boyfriends nor did they engage in sexual activities, Natalie wonders why the girl would assume they were the same & how one might know whether a stranger was engaging in relations or not. Her tone indicates that she had engaged (albeit, once again, against her will) in sexual activity. Therefore, even if the assault is not explicitly stated it does play a significant role in the plot as a whole. By the end of the story we find Natalie roaming with a friend whose name was used to describe another girl but, I do choose to believe is simply a figment of Natalie's imagined state; the two walk around town & imagine themselves in a place far away, where they have a fresh start & live lives far from the ones they are currently leading. It's very unfortunate to read about a person who is so entrenched in their illusions, due in part to trauma but also because they inhabit a world that does not afford them any freedoms, seek to find themselves by releasing themselves from all the confusion & hurt they feel.The moments in the forest are confusing to read about because once Natalie is picked up by a passing vehicle, the conversation revolves around assault & horrible things happening in the woods. I suppose one might believe that in some ways Natalie was seeking to rid herself of these conversations & memories by ending her life but, found herself recalling things which lead her to feel hope for the next moment & that in fact, the reality she was experiencing was, in fact, an honest one. Overall, I appreciated the tone of this book & the entire plot. I wouldn't encourage someone to read this book should they not enjoy a dialogue that walks in circles, nor if they do not want to read about the consequences of disassociated family members & assault. Specifically, I recall the day after the gathering when Natalie goes to breakfast. She has described herself as being bruised, to the point that someone would obviously notice, & yet no one says anything. The characters are more interested in pursuing the normalcy of their quotidian rather than inquiring about the singular well-being of another.This was incredibly well-written & I am glad to have read it.
5708892804	If I were to read this book again, with the physical copy, I probably would get more out of it. It's so stream-of-consciousness with very little actually happening. It just doesn't feel like the right book to listen to via audio. It's a book to read slowly to savor the prose.Very odd, strange stream-of-consciousness storyline. It has a very different vibe than we have always lived in the castle and the hunting of Hill house.At the very beginning of the book, there was a strange aspect where it almost seemed that the main character may be able to see ghost or she was schizophrenic. Then a very dramatic event happened.And the book kind of shifted into her going to college and this portion has been very slow to me. And the story really hasn't gone back to the ghost scenes / schizophrenia hallucinations.*tarot content 👍It just feels very pointless ? 83%. Very 😕... confusing.... random....I totallllly may have just missed it, but is Tony a character only at the very end? Why didn't she get introduced earlier???Very bunny esque. I just found this overall very boring. I feel like you need to read this one at least twice to be fair, and if it were anyone other than Shirley Jackson, I wouldn't care to give them the time.Next day thoughts....STRONG bunny vibes (but not as propulsive). Definitely plan to reread so a 3 is a placeholder.
2154358010	Not as gothic as I expected— but an interesting read nonetheless.... if you are reading Shirley Jackson for the first time, though, I’d go with “We Have Always Lived....”.
4305900209	there r dark arts at play yesyesyesyesyesyesyesy
8023288851	3 - 3.5 starsHangsaman is a most unusual, surreal, and quite frankly disturbing coming-of-age story. As Jackson's second book, it seems a little all over the place, but then again, it is Jackson. Think Alice in Wonderland on speed. A young woman who is on the cusp of adulthood has her own problems thanks to an unstable and controlling family life. Dark humour, perils, horrors of one's mind, you don't know what is real and what isn't.
1020835659	All the time while I was reading Hangsaman I was waiting to find out what kind of novel it is. Having read We Have Always Lived in the Castle and knowing a little of Shirley Jackson's reputation, I was expecting it turn to into a Gothic melodrama or a supernatural chiller, but even four fifths of the way through, it refused to take a shape I recognised.The first part sees Natalie Waite suffering her family at home, the second sees her suffering the poisonous student/teacher relationships at her college, then the third part... well, the third part makes some unexpected jumps. Natalie makes a new friend. Heavy hints are dropped concerning the direction in which we are headed, none of which are followed through. Incidental characters may or may not exist.This is, I think, a story about identity, about a damaged person trying to understand where they fit into the world in relation to the constricting expectations of others. A key scene may be on a bus ride, when Natalie feels suffocatingly confined by her fellow passengers on all sides: "she was helpless among people who hated her and showed it by holding her motionless until they should choose to release her."Perhaps now is not the time for me to be writing this review. I finished reading the book a few hours ago and already it is growing in my mind, its echoes gathering in volume. It may be some time before I figure out how I feel about it.One more thing: in the unlikely event that anyone is reading this, does anybody know what the title means?
3539868017	Sadly I'm in the second big reading rut of my 30's. I don't think I've finished a book in many months. When the pandemic started, I was kind of excited in a way -- I could use this time to get things accomplished, and the ability to work from home meant that I'd have a lot more easy access to solitary reading time, something I have always wanted. But as the months have gone by, I have barely picked up a book at all. Maybe I underestimated how much reading I do during my daily commute to work (which is about 90 minutes total on a train each day). For some reason I've found it hard to sit down with a book, even though I have all the time in the world.On the other hand, I have been watching a metric ton of movies (up to 175 already this year). One of the better ones from 2020 that I've seen is Shirley, a quasi-biographical film about Shirley Jackson (portrayed by the outstanding Elisabeth Moss) that covers the period of her life when she got the inspiration to write Hangsaman. It's not a factual biopic and certainly takes a lot of artistic liberties, but the tone and eccentric portrayal of Jackson interested me enough to want to pick up Hangsaman.I'm super glad I did. I hadn't read any of Jackson's work yet, but I was immediately taken with her rich, clever, quasi-postmodern writing style. Each page had a sentence or two that made me quietly smile and nod like some kind of approving grandparent. It also made me appreciate the movie even more, because the tone pretty much exactly matches the book. It's got an eerie, unsettling feeling, like all of the characters know some sinister secret that they aren't telling you about.The book itself is largely open to interpretation (like really), but for the most part it tells the story of a young woman who feels oppressed and lonely after being raised by a overbearing father and a defeated mother. She goes off to college hoping to find something different, but is disappointed to find things mostly the same. It's not exactly cheery stuff. That being said, it can be very funny at times; there is some good satire of academia in here that is pretty pointed and clever.The ending is extremely ambiguous and a lot of things are left vague. Once I was done, I rushed to Google to try and find some answers, but I was frustrated that no one seems to have attempted to really decipher what this book is really all about. My take is that our main character Natalie was sexually assaulted just before leaving for college (that part I don't believe is up for debate, although it's never explicitly stated per se). The few pages of writing that follow that incident the next morning are incredibly heartbreaking, as Natalie creates the mantra of "I will not think about it, it doesn't matter. Nothing happened, nothing happened, nothing happened." Her family, seemingly aware that something DID happen (and possibly even partially responsible for it) does and says nothing. Natalie soon goes off to school days later.I think that Natalie disassociated from herself, and as she fails to find any kind of connection or answers at college, she continues to get worse and worse, until she "meets" the character of Tony at school, a similarly minded kindred spirit who is not mentioned until very late in the book. This is again left incredibly vague, but my reading is that Tony is not a real person, and is instead a more destructive aspect of Natalie's personality that attempts to get Natalie to kill herself. (I told you it was dark!) I would mark this with spoilers but I'm not even sure this is spoiling anything, as it certainly isn't made clear in the book.Needless to say, this is not a happy book and Natalie is not a happy character, but it is chilling, suspenseful and extremely well-written, and even though you may scratch your head a bit once it's over, you'll certainly feel unnerved.I really liked this quite a bit and I'm hoping this can get me out of this reading rut. I've half a mind to just run out and grab some more Shirley Jackson books.(Also check out the movie Shirley, which is really excellent!)
6049057735	This book is a slice of life, coming of age tale of a 17yr old girl starting college. It seems like it could start and end anywhere, no real storyline. However, it's charming with eccentric, interesting characters and Shirley Jackson's wonderful style. I did enjoy the experience. While The Haunting of Hill House and We Have Always Lived in the Castle are great novels and enjoyable by most, Hangsaman as well as the other novels of hers that I've read I do think you have to be a fan of her's to enjoy. This book reminded me of Philip Dick's non-sci fi books from early in his career. Quirky characters who overthink social interactions and not much direction with story. Both are as I said, an acquired taste, but one that I personally enjoy.
4437071770	Pains me but I was just not into this story at all. Our heroine is an outcast and her father is a narcissistic and controlling figure that warped her childhood. She attends college only to be surrounded by a bunch of 'normal' girls. This is a coming of age novel that I didn't care about even though it was a bit spooky here and there.
3011162257	"It then became perfectly clear to her that this was the reasonable consequence of all her life, from the beginning until now. She had done so much to preserve herself from this kind of captivity and had taken inevitably one of the many roads which would lead her to the same torment; she was helpless among people who hated her and showed it by holding her motionless until they would choose to release her. .”I was very curious about Jackson’s early novels that have been brought back into print in the last decade or so. Hangsaman was great, better than I had hoped. It is a book of three parts, each featuring the interior thoughts of 17 year old Natalie Waite. In the first part, she is still at home, the summer before she leaves for college. In the second part, it is her first rocky semester at the women’s college her father has selected for her. The third part is her final unraveling as she rejects both home and school. This is a coming of age novel as only Shirley Jackson could write it. It is funny at times but generally unsettling. There are things that are only hinted at but with a little thought, the reader can fill in the blanks…but when you do it is very disturbing…well, at least that’s where my mind went. The jump from each section isn’t very smooth, but Jackson’s neurotic, disaffected yet vulnerable heroines really speak to me.
5876962657	Seventeen year old Natalie Waite begins college, and as she navigates this new world, she undergoes some sort of a psychological breakdown.Out of all the Jackson books I have read, this is impossible to describe. I can say I was immensely disturbed, and that there was a constant feeling of dread. But for what reason? I find myself unable to describe that. Perhaps it's this ambiguity that Jackson keeps up right till the end that is the most frightening aspect. Almost nothing happens 'externally'. 'Internally', inside Natalie's mind, it's horror and chaos. This is a study of isolation taken to its psychological extreme. Inside Natalie's head, it's disorienting. You feel like you are in this unending hallway - it's a place that seems ordinary and safe, but you know it's not and there is no reason for that. Like Natalie, you don't know if anything that happens is real or unreal. You question the events of the book at every turn.Perhaps this is a book about a woman in a patriarchal world, attempting to detach herself from her family and society, and in this attempt, experiencing some kind of extreme dissociation from self. The self becomes unidentifiable.In lesser hands, this could not have worked. It's Shirley Jackson, so it absolutely does. Of course, you need a mental break after reading this.
2693750621	An unsettling novel, like a view through a broken pane, or more accurately a strangely warped and unevenly cleaned one. Natalie is the plaything of her egoistic father, she is unable to communicate with her hapless mother, joining college she is hard pressed to fit in, or even really stand out. The weight of expectations, her own terrible innocence and a barely revealed trauma add up to a deeply disengaged first term or semester in her supposedly progressive college. She is briefly interested in but never quite taken in by professors, other students, a professor's wife who is perhaps a sort of possible future self.Ultimately, she heads down a flight into dissociation and self destruction in a sustained section of hallucinatory intensity. A kind of symphony of anomie and paranoia. She comes out on the other hand, perhaps only having learned her own lack of consequence, but Jackson hints that this is a kind of victory compared to the intellectual or social pretensions of those around her.A deeply observed, often alarmingly sardonic and occasionally surreal novel in which the logic of dreams and diurnal meaninglessness seem interchangeable.
3604674952	Despite what the cover suggests, this isn't really a horror novel, though there is a kind of Twin Peaks atmosphere at the end. It's a baggy book that doesn't quite know what it's trying to be, but that's okay because coming-of-age protagonist Natalie doesn't really know what she's trying to be either.But because she doesn't know what she's trying to be, and because she's kind of groping around in her own peculiar way to find where her power lies, the sentences of this novel are full of surprises. It reminded me of Jane Bowles that way. As much as I love other work by Shirley Jackson, I didn't know she could write like this. I was happily surprised.Question for those who've read it: (view spoiler)[Tony isn't real, is she? (hide spoiler)]
7262576707	Shirley Jackson hace con el lector lo que quiere. Al principio parece que estás leyendo una novela de formación en la que una adolescente pasa sus últimos días en casa antes de ir a la universidad pero luego, una vez en ella, la historia se vuelve compleja y empiezas a dudar si lo que cuenta es real o imaginario.Me ha gustado el estilo de la autora en el que tenemos que interpretar lo que quiere decir y lo que esconde entre líneas. Aunque al principio es una lectura bastante asequible, se va complicando a medida que avanza y es algo costosa de leer porque pasas de la realidad a la imaginación sin previo aviso. Aun así me ha gustado mucho.
4633763016	"Poor things, she thought - do they have to spend all this energy just to surround me? It seemed pitiful that these automatons should be created and wasted, never knowing more than a minor fragment of the pattern in which they were involved, to learn and follow through insensitively a tiny step in the great dance which was seen close up as the destruction of Natalie, and far off, as the end of the world."Every time I thought I understood the borders of Hangsaman, it twisted and expanded exponentially. It is in turns a domestic psychodrama, a horror novel, a college satire, and an apophenic adventure ala Jacques Rivette. A masterclass in careful disruption, disorientation, and mystery.
7998276560	Very meandering and seemingly endless despite its short length. Ironic considering Natalie’s many letters home, that this book to me was nothing to write home about.
2010004378	Edited 3/2/18 to his some spoilers. This has the feeling of a midcentury classic to me; it feels like something a character on Mad Men would read. It's a subtle, vague, mindbending thing full of ennui, and I think it's Shirley Jackson's most complex novel. We Have Always Lived in the Castle is perfect in its simplicity. The Haunting of Hill House is frightening in its single-mindedness. Hangsaman, however, is beautiful in virtue of its untidiness. Hangsaman is a puzzle with several pieces missing, which may frustrate some readers, but for me it felt like a breath of fresh air. It showed a broader range to one of my favorite authors, while still hitting all the right notes of Jackson's best work. Ambiguity is no stranger to Jackson's writing—take the ending of The Sundial, in which (view spoiler)[the apocalypse that is the main subject of the book is never revealed to actually exist (hide spoiler)], or We Have Always Lived in the Castle, in which (view spoiler)[it's only hinted that Merricat is the one to have killed her family, but never made explicit (hide spoiler)]—but the symbols and metaphors in this book were thrown well beyond ambiguity into the realm of the insane. (view spoiler)[ Did Tony exist at all? What was with the detective in Natalie's mind that kept accusing her of murder, but disappeared after she left home for college? What significance did the one-armed man have? (hide spoiler)]At its heart, though, this is a story about a strange, lonely girl who is having trouble growing up, who is trying to get past a trauma, who has an overbearing father who refers to himself as God, and who—like the reader—doesn't have any answers to her many questions. A story can get away with extreme ambiguity if it treats its characters with love and respect, which is something Jackson never has a problem doing.P.S. A couple more things...I think Shirley Jackson suffers from being marketed as horror or "terrifying" or with covers that depict nooses surrounding the protagonist or the protagonist being pursued by a sinister-looking group of white-cloaked individuals. "Her shattering novel of a young girl led ever deeper into total terror", one cover claims. "The story of a haunted, brooding young girl trapped in a sinister world of her one making", another says. Shirley Jackson is most well known for The Lottery and The Haunting of Hill House, which are both pretty messed up stories that could easily be called "scary". But Shirley Jackson is not a horror writer. The majority of her work has a dark twist to it, but none of her books are really trying to actively scare you. They may unsettle you, or cause you to look at the people around you differently, but the gothic horror mold people try to squeeze her into (especially in her one time; Penguin seems to have straightened out her covers, and therefore her image, somewhat recently) isn't suiting.P.P.S. I felt connections between this book and David Lynch, and that's the first time that's happened. Certainly the ambiguity and weirdness of the images from this book helped that connection: the man with one arm, the imaginary detective, the lesbian overtones and implied sexual violence. And just the fact that it forces you to continue to think about it after you've finished.
730514880	Either nothing happens in this book...or I didn't understand this book.Anyway, here's my tentative interpretation:(view spoiler)[That's the whole point. What's sinister about this story is that nothing innately sinister ever actually happens. It's Jackson's writing that creates the the sense of foreboding. As in The Haunting of Hill House, this speaks to fear and torment of the protagonist's own alienation. (hide spoiler)]Alternative interpretation:(view spoiler)[Tony isn't real and Natalie never comes back from the woods. (hide spoiler)]2nd alternative:(view spoiler)[Any number of characters could be unreal, deceased, or simply mischaracterized. Natalie blocks and distorts memories. Likely was raped. May or may not be killing people. (hide spoiler)]
2690069489	Ha sido un libro bastante extraño, en el buen sentido. Con personajes interesantes y la prosa extraordinaria de Shirley Jackson podemos adentrarnos en una historia que aparentemente pueda sonar bastante ordinaria. Una Natalie Waite de 17 años escapa de casa para ir a la universidad, con una madre que pretende evitar que Natalie cometa sus mismos errores y su peculiar relación amor - odio con su padre.Lo más sorprendente de "hangsaman" es lo que no está escrito, aquello que se lee entre líneas y que llena de significado la historia. Así mismo, el personaje de Natalie no parece nada confiable y debemos preguntarnos qué tanto de lo que dice Natalie es verdad, a ratos suena elocuente y racional y otras parece que está perdiendo la razón. Sin duda es un libro que te hace pensar, te intriga y deja que saques tus propias conclusiones. Una historia rara que te hará pensar y dudar.
5258522472	Me encanta Jackson. Me genera adicción y no puedo parar cada vez que agarro uno de sus libros. A diferencia de los otros que he leído de ella este no es de terror sino que es, más bien, un Bildungsroman. Y me pareció un gran dato saber que se publicó el mismo año que El guardián entre el centeno porque de algún modo es como su contracara: las complejidades de la adolescencia femenina.Quizás esta no sea su mejor novela o no sea bueno comenzar a leer a esta autora por acá porque es un poco confusa y deja algunas cuestiones sin resolver (aunque eso a mí me gusta, que me deje espacio para interpretar).
3379927997	What an odd story. There were parts of this book that I enjoyed and parts of it where I wasn’t sure what was going on. I feel like I need to take a bunch of psychology classes to understand this book.🤔🤔🤔 This is kind of a depressing storyline with a feeling of hopelessness. I had to give a three star rating though because I love Shirley Jackson. I think her writing is unique and I love how this is making me think and analyze it. I didn’t fully enjoy this read but I appreciate the fact that this story is unusual and different than most books out there.
1690233155	4.5 StarsIf you want a sane read with all the questions answered and ends tied up, don’t read this.It was a bit of a mindfuck and when I finished I desperately wanted to discuss it with someone....because wtf did I just read?Shirley Jackson is a master...of storytelling, of words, of creating eerie tales that will haunt you forever.I want to re-read this so I can really see all the little hints and clues, things I missed before...I need to dissect and discuss this.
4170061225	this is literally what happens when you go to a historical women's college (i went to a historical women's college)
2423846921	A very strange novel with a strong beginning (unfortunately, a very confusing end), Shirley Jackson's Hangsaman is another well-written piece of horror.
6983593376	nog eens aan het lezen voor mijn thesis-analyse
6434060051	Speechless after reading this one, it’s not only eerie but it’s really deep. At times I felt like I was reading The Bell Jar, as the main character works through her thoughts & emotions. Jackson did such a good job, you feel like you are inside the mind of the main character Natalie as she faces different situations.After reading that this novel was loosely based on the disappearance of a college sophomore- it makes this story even more chilling!
