2084287630	Four high school friends now in their thirties reunite after a terrible shared secret threatens to emerge and shatter their peaceful lives. But what they thought was a shared secret turns out to be a lie - one of them isn’t telling the truth. I really enjoyed Ruth Ware’s debut novel, In a Dark, Dark Wood, and was disappointed with the poor follow-up, last year’s The Woman in Cabin 10, so I hoped The Lying Game would be a return to form; it’s not. The Lying Game is awful - looks like Ruth Ware is a one-hit wonder! This non-thriller horribly takes its time, ambling towards the reveal of the mystery at the novel’s core, along the way introducing us to its cast of uninteresting nobodies in a small, dreary coastal town. The “dark secret” is underwhelming to say the least, particularly as it’s built up to be something utterly shocking. I guess what they did is morally questionable but I thought it was going to be much, much worse than it was. Things don’t improve in the second half of the book. Ware wastes more time on the impossibly mundane life of Isa, our narrator, who has boring quarrels with her husband - this, like too many passages clogging the narrative (what did having a baby add exactly?), has NOTHING to do with ANYTHING, I just kept thinking GET THE FUCK ON WITH IT! - as the pathetic “plot” shuffles towards a dull final twist that I couldn’t have cared less about at that point, and then the whole disaster is wrapped up. It’s never really clear what exactly the point was. The four friends gather and talk about what they did but don’t really do anything further - it’s not just a lack of any character’s discernible motivation, it’s a total absence of direction which only accentuates the turgid pacing of the book. A menacing figure, Luc, is introduced but other than wondering whether or not he killed a sheep (another go-nowhere subplot), it’s not clear at all what his purpose is - his presence only makes sense with the final twist so up til then he feels like another superfluous addition to this overlong novel. The mystery itself is flimsy at best. It was only a mystery to us because the details are slowly parcelled out - if it was revealed at once you’d be able to poke holes in its flawed construction, as the main character does once she begins to think about it. But why wouldn’t she have thought about it at the time or at any time in the 16 or so years since it happened!? It’s such contrived drivel. No aspect of The Lying Game was interesting or worth reading. It was a supremely tedious, unremarkable and unsatisfying novel that’s put me off of picking up anything by Ruth Ware in the future. I highly recommend her only good novel, In a Dark, Dark Wood, which is exciting and fun, though I’d steer well clear of her other books.
2032396675	*Unpopular opinion alert*: This book didn't work for me. The Lying Game is a slow burning psychological thriller about four friends who are bound together by lies. “A lie can outlast any truth.” When 15 year old Isa Wilde is sent to coastal boarding school, Salten, she quickly befriends Kate, Thea, and Fatima. The girls participate in a game, called “The Lying Game,” which isolates their classmates and causes local townies to hate them. There are 5 rules to the game: TELL A LIE, STICK TO YOUR STORY, DON'T GET CAUGHT, NEVER LIE TO EACH OTHER, KNOW WHEN TO STOP LYING. After a horrible event occurs leading to the expulsion of the liars, the game ends but the girls never stop lying. They make a pact to never share what really happened, and keep the secret buried for 17 years. Switch to the present, and Isa is a 32 year old attorney living in London with her newborn daughter, Freya, and partner, Owen. She’s lost contact with the other girls, but when she receives a text from Kate simply stating, “I need you,” she drops everything and runs to her friend’s side. Kate, Isa, Thea and Fatima reunite, desperate to keep their secret under wraps. It soon becomes apparent that one of them has broken perhaps the most pivotal rule: NEVER LIE TO EACH OTHER. Told from Isa’s perspective, the narrative switches back and forth between the past and present. Isa shares a lot about how things used to be, and while the narrative shifts to the past we only get small glimpses of the friends time together, which hindered my ability to really get a full picture of their friendship. This is one of the reasons I had trouble with this book. I also found Isa’s voice stifling. The Lying Game isn’t bad, it’s just not great. While it's very well-written, there was something lacking for me. Often, I was bored--but this might be because I figured out the mystery super early on. I received a copy of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
2540893617	2.5 stars Here, in this house the ghosts of our past are real Isabel, Kate, Fatima, and Thea were inseparable during their boarding school days.They had a game - a wild, hilarious and crazy game - that bonded these girls together. The biggest rule? Stick to your lie. A lie can outlast any truth. They awarded points based off of the most outrageous lie, who believed them and if they ever had to give up the truth. They were young, and wild, and free...until that night.Something happened that night... something that irrevocably changed their futures and everything about them.Now, years later, they can barely look each other in the eye but if one of them calls for help, they all come running. Because some lies...aren't meant to be forgotten. And it’s a story about hope—about how we have to go on, after the unbearable has happened. Make the most of our lives, for the sake of the people who gave theirs. Overall, it was good, but not that good.So, for the most part, I enjoyed this one. It was fun to piece together the puzzle and Ware scattered enough clues to keep me interested in the plot.However (and this is a BIG however), this is the third novel of Ware's where the plot completely circles around hiding the truth for no apparent reason...in fact, if the characters would just tell each other the truth then there would literally be no more plot. Poof. Nothing.But instead, they all have to lie, lie and lie some more which ends up stretching a relatively uncomplicated secret into a full-length novel. It's just frustrating that Ware is leaning on this lying crutch for the third novel in a row.And (for some reason), we are constantly using this hugely (and uselessly) poetical language throughout the novel - which makes everything three times longer! I close my eyes, listening to the sound of the past, imagining myself back into the skin of the girl I once was, a girl whose friends were still around her, whose mistakes were ahead of her... Oh good lawd girl, get to the point already!Audiobook CommentsRead by Imogen Church and am I the only one struggling with the audio? Church provides an excellent narration...but seems to use the same tone/inflection for every Ware novel she reads. It's so similar that I actually forget which novel I'm in!YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
6933210002	Zaskakująco smutna historia. Bardzo mi się podobała 🥹
2008416203	“…years on, people round here still use your names as a kind of salacious cautionary tale…”It’s rare that I stumble upon a read as gripping and as raw as this one was. And, it was not an outright or vulgar kind of raw—no, that wouldn’t really be the English way, now would it?—but Ruth Ware’s The Lying Game was something arguably so much better, because it didn’t lean on outright shock, melodrama and over-the-top confrontations. No, here the rawness is in the imagery, a true reader’s delight, because it pulled at the senses and plucked at our moral strings in unpredictable ways, in ways that were altogether unexpected when I picked up this novel.Here, the reader will peep behind the closed doors of a partially secluded English home at the edge of a reach, a place where the water laps at the very door of the home in high tide just as danger and uncertainty laps at their feet from the moment they receive Kate’s SOS text: I need you. Once a place of refuge and harbor, the Reach has turned into a silent stomping ground for their greatest fears and will forever be a magnet of both dread and longing for each of the women in this sisterhood. Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa share a secret that bonds them together tighter than blood ever could. And it starts and ends with the Reach. The gentle suspense here was wonderful, but even it was heightened and magnified like a fly under a magnifying glass by the camaraderie that held these four unlikely friends together nearly 20 years after that fateful night—you could feel their anxieties, mistrust and the burn of their lies scorching your very skin as you read on. Ware swirled so much unexpected goodness into these pages that I was amazed at her deftness and insight. This glimpse into their world was so much more than just that—it was the peeling back of the layers of humanity within ourselves and at the lengths that we will go to protect one of our own. The very act of peeling seemed to be almost a metaphorical foundation: the peeling away of clothes wet from the waters of the Reach, of skin around ragged fingernails chewed nearly to the quick, of secrets from the truth they’d all stood on as their foundation for years. And, too, within these pages you’ll find other hidden nuggets, like a subtle commentary on the cultural insensitivity Muslims face every day (“What do you think it means? If you think it means that she’s using that head scarf as a bandage, then yes, that’s what I mean. It’s great that Allah’s forgiven you…but I doubt the police will take that as a plea bargain.”) the bond of family—blood and otherwise—and a true sense of setting and surroundings: It gives the whole place a melancholy air, like those sultry southern American towns, where the Spanish moss hangs thick from the trees, swaying in the wind. The town of Salten was embedded in true English culture, making the characters all leap to life on the pages, the values of this tight-knit society playing an important role in the unfolding of events. The Lying Game managed to be about so much more than lying—though those moments of actual “game play” were delightful, fun, frisky and filled with all of the carefreeness of youth that we all remember, that we all yearn to hold on to even now. It was also about the grip of a parent’s love and protection of their children, small town scandal and the whisper of child sexual abuse.How dare you judge me? I do what I have to do to sleep at night. So do you, apparently. How about you respect my coping mechanisms and I’ll respect yours?Ruth Ware gave her readers a phenomenal roller coaster of twists and turns. I thoroughly enjoyed this novel and would be happy to read more from this author any day! The setting was palpable, the sisterhood and kinship of these women SO relatable. These women felt real; their faults and growth felt real and it made me want to follow them throughout these 300+ pages. The camaraderie was palpable, lifelike, believable and touching. There was no bow-tie happy ending here and I respected that, yearned for that, in fact. Ware had the guts to not put a ribbon on it for us, and her readers can only revere her for that. I loved every moment of reading this novel and I'm definitely a Ruth Ware fan from here on out. The Lying Game easily earned itself a very strong 4 stars. ****(I've downgraded this review from a 5* to a very strong 4* read, because the 5* nagged at me. I reserve that for the absolutely breath-taking works of writing, and this was not quite that, though it was exceptionally well done!)**I received an advance-read copy of this book from the publisher, Gallery/Scout Press, via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.**FOLLOW ME HERE:Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Get a Copy of My Book | Book Editing, Author Coaching, Submit Your Book to Me
2103108432	A story of female friendship, lies and deceit.This one had my heart pumping till the very end and I'm glad to see Ruth Ware delivering again.The book tells the story of four friends who met in a boarding school when they were teenagers. They played "the lying game" until something happened and they were withdrawn from the school. Seventeen years later the last lie they told has come to haunt them. The novel takes place in London and also in an English coastal town. The story is narrated by Isa Wilde, one of the four friends and alternates between the present and the past. (image source)I felt the tone was very gothic because of the descriptions and actions at the end. Also, the book is more character than plot-driven and is engaging, riveting, and chilling.Overall, I loved this book ❤ and recommend it to all.Review posted on blog.FINAL NOTE: whenever I pictured the English boarding school then Hogwarts came to mind. Don't ask me why, it just did.
2021184074	Oh Ruth Ware, I expected more from you. Last year was all about The Woman in Cabin 10, which blurbs compared to Gone Girl and I’m sorry, but NO. I digress….finding The Woman in Cabin 10 a decent enough read, I was looking forward to seeing what Ms. Ware had up her sleeve next. I didn’t need another blockbuster novel, and in fact, preferred the follow-up to be quieter, but perhaps more finely tuned. I acknowledge that writers must be under immense pressure when penning their first story after a runaway hit. I get it. And The Lying Game sounded promising. After human remains are discovered, a group of women are summoned to their former stomping grounds by a mysterious message, hurriedly scribbled by the fourth member of their formerly tight quartet. A quartet that used to engage in The Lying Game, an innocent boarding school pastime that eventually leads to the group’s expulsion and sudden death of the school’s art teacher. Juicy, right??!! WRONG.With all the pieces in place: interesting premise, good writer, you might think: how could this book fail? But oh how it did. While Ruth Ware’s writing itself remains lovely, The Lying Game might be one of the dullest stories I’ve ever read. AND IT’S A MYSTERY. The primary issue is the book’s entirely too long. It’s bogged down with so much flowery prose and extraneous information that entire sections of the narrative read as pointless AT BEST. And with all that needless hoo-ha, “THE BIG SECRET” the women are keeping, and the narrative’s main drive, get lost. They disappear in endless soliloquies about Salten’s (the village) pastoral scenery (believe me, once you’ve read one such passage, you’ve read them ALL). And then follows the pages upon pages of school-day reminiscing, which yes this is partly a reunion story, but these women are allegedly in imminent danger. WHY AREN’T THEY SCARED? WHY AREN’T THEY PUTTING TOGETHER AN ACTION PLAN? Why aren’t they doing ANYTHING really other than getting drunk & acting ridiculously? DO THEY NOT KNOW THE RULES OF HORROR MOVIES??? How about postponing the girls’ weekend until AFTER you vanquish the psycho killer? The characters are similarly frustrating. The only person who’s at all developed is our protagonist, Isa. The remaining three women are one-dimensional tropes of the jock, cheerleader, bad girl variety. The women are reduced to personality TYPES rather than fully realized individuals. And in a story that’s supposedly character-driven, having few players to identify with or become interested in decreases overall reader investment. I'm not saying let's transform this novel into a James Patterson-esque thriller (please for the love of literature, don't). But a balance between actual mystery and pointless description needs to be struck (think: Tana French, Kate Atkinson, Denise Mina). The book reads more like a very tedious drama than a mystery and the characters are boring, which begs the questions WHY AM I READING THIS?Thanks to Netgalley and the publishers for a complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review.
2054022496	I'm now caught up on all of Ruth Ware's books! She is one of my favorite writers, yet I'm still waiting to give one of her books a five star rating. That's how talented she is as a writer, I'm willing to overlook her product output in favor of the gorgeous technical skill she possesses.The plot of THE LYING GAME is the weakest of Ware's three books. I was frequently bored and zoning out during the book, it really took me awhile to finish it and then, meh...not much more than a beautiful rewrite of Pretty Little Liars in a British accent. Ware is a master at creating atmosphere, mood and an overall foreboding tone to her mysteries. She may very well be the next Agatha Christie, but I hope she comes up with a compelling plot to go with her first rate writing ability soon!
1968082542	Traveling Sisters Review by NORMA and LINDSAY!!4.5 stars!Lindsay and I have both read all of Ruth Ware’s previous novels and agree that this was definitely our favourite one thus far!The book was divided into sections from the 5 rules of The Lying Game that the four friends participated in: TELL A LIE, STICK TO YOUR STORY, DON'T GET CAUGHT, NEVER LIE TO EACH OTHER, and KNOW WHEN TO STOP LYING. As the novel progresses through these five rules you do get a sense of how the game is played.THE LYING GAME by RUTH WARE is an engrossing, intriguing, steady-paced, and a suspenseful psychological thriller that grabbed our attention right from the very first page and had us reading and guessing right to the very end trying to figure out the secrets lying within the storyline.RUTH WARE delivers an atmospheric and vivid read here that is written in such a way that completely drew us right into the descriptions of the old, run-down Mill and the dark, creepy, and deserted Reach. With the strong sense of atmosphere we felt like we were experiencing it right along with all the characters in this book. The mystery within this story is slowly revealed as it switches back and forth between the past and present and is told in Isa’s perspective which allowed us to be completely absorbed in the character’s lives until the very last page. While Lindsay and I were reading and chatting about this one at one point we both picked up on and discussed how we both felt about the strong theme that was emanating within the story here. We feel that a lot of mothers will especially connect with this novel as there is a strong theme of the mother/child bond and breastfeeding. The main character, Isa Wilde, who narrates this story has a six-month-old baby daughter named Freya who we both absolutely loved and felt that she definitely stole the show for us! We were both in awe of how well RUTH WARE described in complete perfection the bond between a mother and her newborn child. These were very touching aspects of the novel and pulled at our heartstrings!While Lindsay was reading this book, it brought back a lot of memories for her of those sleep-deprived nights and the fond feelings of being a new mother. She could really relate to Isa in so many ways as far as motherhood goes. We both really enjoyed the setting in this one, the game, all the drama within, and the strong connection that we felt to Isa was one of the main reasons that we both loved this book so much! Would recommend! All of our Traveling Sister Reads Reviews can be found on our blog:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/
1967371241	4.5 stars! This was my favourite Ruth Ware novel yet!! This suspenseful and secretive story had me hooked from the first page! I loved the characters, storyline and atmosphere. I had the pleasure of reading this one with Norma. It sparked a lot of great conversation along the way. I highly recommend!To find our full Traveling Sister Read Review, please visit Norma and Brenda's fabulous book blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
1967698456	I really enjoyed this author's previous novel, The Woman in Cabin 10 and was really looking forward to this one.This book did not work for me and I even had a hard time finishing it. I know many have loved this one and I wish I could have liked it more. I couldn't feel any suspense building and the story just dragged on chapter after chapter. I didn't feel the connections between the four women characters and I found the plot to be predictable and without any thrills.I do think many people will enjoy this book with the girlfriends and their secret past that comes back to haunt them, but I figured the mystery out early. Give it a try and see what you think. I do like this author and of course I am looking forward to her next novel.
2439969737	A slow-moving I Know What You Did Last Summer premise that does become twisty and intriguing around the halfway point. Unfortunately the characters are so disagreeable that the stakes never feel high. What? That horrible person is actually more horrible? Shocking! Will the stalker kill them all? I hope so! In the end it wasn't all bad, but I'm sure this is Ruth Ware's least impressive effort. Maybe try one of her other books instead?
2055190995	“Welcome to the Lying Game...Oh, and ten points.” I blitzed through this!!Isa, Kate, Fatima and Thea were inseparable as teenagers. All enrolled in the Salten boarding school for girls. They would play ‘The Lying Game’ a game in which they lied to others to see if they would believe them. The more ridiculous the better. One of the main rules though, they never lie to each other. 27 years later the girls have all moved on, living in different places - some with families of their own. But when Kate sends them all a text from Salten - she is the only one who stayed. The girls cannot ignore the text “I need you.” They drop everything and run to Salten. A body has been found, the police have started asking questions and they all need to get their story straight. The story was gripping, the girls were all pretty messed up tbh. But I’m used to suspending my disbelief with thrillers as long as they are enjoyable. (view spoiler)[ I mean, kate sleeping with her stepbrother - that’s gross imo. And Luc’s reaction to being sent away is to put heroin in Ambrose’s wine?! Honestly. Pretty mental but there we are. (hide spoiler)] As tensions rise, the girls are forced to confront the decisions they made all those years ago and if it comes out now they could lose everything. 4 stars for a fast paced thriller.
2202678618	3.25 Stars* (rounded down).Isa Wilde is a married mother of baby Freya, when she receives a text: “I Need You.” She knows exactly what it means. She hasn’t heard from Kate in over 15 years, yet she has been terrified this moment would come. She needs to go to Kate, but she can’t tell her husband Owen the truth. She must lie to him. And so it begins. Again. Thea and Fatima, old friends from school, also received the same text from Kate and all three go to her. Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa become fast friends at Salten House. Every spare second outside of school was spent at Kate’s house in Salten, with Kate’s father Ambrose and her stepbrother Luc. They excluded everyone else from their clique. Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa had a game that they liked to play. They called it “The Lying Game” - which they only played against older girls, powerful girls and teachers, of course. They were despised, thought to be liars.The rules of the game?:Rule 1: Tell a lie.Rule 2: Stick to your storyRule 3. Don't get caught.Rule 4. Never lie to each other.Rule 5. Know when to stop lying.After a while, somehow, things end up going awry. Ambrose, Kate’s father goes missing. And then the girls get separated, life goes on. Yet they never forgot each other and always knew that their past, their secrets and their lies bound them together. “The Lying Game” by Ruth Ware started out slow .. it burned like a fire that refused to go out, even though I wished I could stomp on it. This was a Traveling Sister Read with Brenda and Kaceey and all three of us had lots to say about this one. At first I enjoyed it more, but as the story went on and as I thought of it in terms of other stellar mysteries I’ve read as of late, it was obvious how flat this one fell in comparison. There was nothing about the novel that stood out, nothing that grabbed me unlike “The Woman in Cabin 10” by Ruth Ware, which I loved: (I still remember Lo Blacklock and her Maybelline Mascara!). I loved reading this novel with my Traveling Sisters: Brenda and Kaceey. Thanks for making this read so much fun sisters!Published on Goodreads, Amazon, Twitter and Instagram on 12.10.17.
2004892848	3.5 stars. The Lying Game was a mixed bag for me, but on balance I quite liked it. It's told from Isa's perspective. Isa is now in her early thirties with a young baby. She and two others get a text from high school friend Kate -- "I need you" -- and this sends Isa and her three friends into a tailspin back to the village where they went to boarding school when they were 15 years old. The less said the better because in large part the point of this story is how it unfolds. As a narrator, Isa is slow to let the reader know about what happened at school when she was 15 that has left such an emotional scar, and then Isa comes to find out that she doesn't have all the pieces of the puzzle. There's something dark, breathless and melodramatic -- almost gothic -- about how Isa tells her story that pervades the whole book. I wavered between finding the tone immature and just going along with it. At the end of the day, what I liked was that for this kind of quasi thriller, the story seemed original. I didn't know where it was going, and it was relatively morally complex. I cringed at many of the decisions Isa and her friends made at 15 and that Isa makes in her early 30s, but I couldn't stop looking because she had me hooked and I wanted to see what happens next. You wouldn't want to read The Lying Game looking for characters to like or side with. But you might want to read it if you're looking for an entertaining read that doesn't follow what have become some of the usual storylines. But definitely don't read it if you're not into dark melodrama. Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an opportunity to read an advance copy.
2032671386	3.75 Little-Liers StarsIsa, Kate, Fatima and Thea have met each other at a train station that its destination was Salten House (Somewhere like boarding school). They quickly became best friend. One day something bad happened and they had to make a decision, even though they knew it was a wrong decision. Now after seventeen years they reunited just because of one text:"I need you."Yes, the consequences of their decision are now being revealed. They think they know everything about that day but you know in these books nothing is that simple!My issue with this story was that it was really slow and just the last 40% of it was exciting. The mystery wasn’t that mysterious. Also, I didn’t like the way it ends (About Isa, not the whole story). But the writing was great and that was the thing that I liked about this story and made me enjoy it! the characters were good. The story is told from Isa’s POV, 1st person. It’s a standalone story. Overall, it was a good read for me and I had a good time with it, hope you enjoy it as well!
3066309696	The Lying Game is the first book I've read by Ruth Ware, but it won't be the last. Published in 2017, this happened to appear on my building's library shelves, so I jumped on it. I'm glad I had a chance to learn more about this author, and if you are a fan of psychological thrillers, you will enjoy this one. Let's dive into the details...Four ~15ish teens play the lying game. There are rules. They get points. Things get very intense. This all happened in the past, so we really don't know which lie put them over the edge. In current days, a text message unites them again. Just what happened ~17 years ago. By 1/3 thru, we know there was a death. One of the girls' fathers. Seemed like suicide. Only it wasn't. Colleague at their school? One of the girls? A boy who wasn't liked? A stepson who wanted revenge? Exactly how did this all come together?So... let's start with the negative, as that's not usual for me. I didn't like any the characters. They were all drawn well, and each had a key role... but several felt a bit vague in terms of why they needed to be involved. Isa is the voice whose POV we hear. Kate's father is the one who died. They make sense. The other two girls... not so much. In the end, I get it... and I'm not giving away any spoilers. I'm just saying I think we could've done without these 2 characters based on how the whole story comes together, or at least they could have been combined into 1 single friend. Also... the secret was a little too obvious. We know it's not suicide, and we know one of the main people killed the father, but where were the twists? Okay... off my soapbox. The language was atmospheric (new word I've seen thrown around a lot lately, so I'll use it too) and flowery. Sometimes it was excessive but it completely made the settings and emotions pop. For those reasons alone, I'll read another Ruth Ware novel, as I really enjoyed picturing the book in my head. I also liked the relationships between various characters. Owen was an awesome father and boyfriend. Isa was so mean to him. True, he jumped to conclusions way too quickly, but she was just effin nuts in the way she treated him sometimes. Girl needed to be given her walking papers if she kept lying and holding secrets. I get she had a bond with friends, but thart was ~17 years ago and you don't see them anymore. He's your baby's father and you say you love him... or do you? Maybe that's the twist being hinted at.Overall, I enjoyed it. Read 25% in 1 sitting, waited 5 days, then finished the rest in a 2nd sitting. So, it wasn't a 5 to make me unable to do anything but read, but when I jumped back in today, I was hooked. Just wish it was a stronger ending. More to read by this author in the future tho!
2009203679	At the Salten Reach in England, a dog unearths a human bone from the sand, a bone belonging to a body hidden there for nearly twenty years. In the aftermath, an urgent text goes out from one woman to her three friends, saying only: "I need you." And they come running.Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa first met at Salten House, a boarding school for girls, when they were fifteen. Kate and Thea had created a 'lying game' with rules and points and all four girls played along: Rule 1: Tell a lie.Rule 2: Stick to your storyRule 3. Don't get caught.Rule 4. Never lie to each other.Rule 5. Know when to stop lying.Of course, they earned the reputation as liars--in school and in the town. Who would believe anything they said? Kate's father, Ambrose Atagon, was a celebrated local artist who painted coastal landscapes and wildlife and taught art at the school. On weekends, he welcomed the girls to his home where they swam in the sea and were often the subjects of his drawings. His stepson Luc became inseparable with the girls. Then one night, Ambrose disappeared and embarrassing drawings of the girls reached the hands of the school administrators. To avoid a scandal, the girls and their families agreed for them to leave Salten behind. For seventeen years, they kept a secret between the four of them but now it looks like their lies and deception may be coming to light. A character-driven psychological thriller told from Isa's point of view, the story unfolds slowly, as Isa remembers the past and deals with problems in the present. The story picks up the pace in the final quarter as the women face the truth of what really happened so many years ago. Satisfying ending. So different from The Woman in Cabin 10! I think Ruth Ware's writing skill has grown beyond her previous work and here she has delivered a thriller with more depth. Looking forward to reading her next novel!I wish to express my gratitude to NetGalley, the author and publisher for the opportunity to read an arc of this book. Many thanks!
1812721861	I think of all the lies I have repeated and repeated over the years, until they became so engrained they felt like the truth: I left because I wanted a change. I don’t know what happened to him; he just disappeared. I did nothing wrong. Can you imagine something you did as a teenager coming back to haunt you seventeen years later? You even stopped hanging out with your best friends, but all it takes is a text, I need you, to drag you back in.Four girls (Isa, Kate, Fatima, & Thea) became friends at Salten House, a coastal boarding school. The girls bond over The Lying Game, a game they made up with a point system where they tell all sorts of lies to fellow students and faculty. The only rules are: tell a lie, stick to your story, don't get caught, never lie to each other, and know when to stop lying. Some lies were harmless enough, while others had real consequences. The girls get expelled in their final year of school around the same time Kate's father, the art master, goes missing.That’s the trouble with having a “click” as Mary Wren might call it. When you define yourself by walls, who’s in, who’s out. The people on the other side of the wall become, not just them, but them. The outsiders. The opposition. The enemy.The story is told from Isa's perspective and switches back and forth in time between present day & the past. We're told how cliquey the girls were, but it feels like mere glimpses into the girls' friendship back then. I feel like I was only being told by other characters what it was like around the girls or to be victim of their game. There wasn't much showing. In present day, Isa has new baby Freya who takes up a lot of her thoughts. This doesn't prevent her from dropping everything to take Freya with her to Kate's the second she receives the text. Is a seventeen year lie going to coming back to haunt them?There is so much I was dying to know. What did the girls do 17 years ago? What happened to Ambrose, the art master? Why does Kate need the others now? I had no idea the part that Ambrose would play in our lives, and we in his, or how the ripples of our meeting would go on reverberating down the years. The Lying Game is more of a character-driven mystery than Ruth Ware's previous novels. It is oozing in characterization. The setting is brilliant for the story - atmospheric and tense. The steady decay and sinking of the Tide Mill felt metaphorical for the girls' friendship. The marshes the girls would cross to get to Kate's house I could feel myself walking through. While this is a slow-burn mystery, at times it feels much too slow. I would've liked more on the friendship when the girls were younger. I feel like there was a bit more potential in Thea..and Fatima for that matter. They felt underwritten. I even have certain things I'm still wondering regarding Thea and her secrets. The mystery started out compelling, but became clear at a certain point. It just wasn't quite as mysterious.I did like this one overall. Ruth Ware's writing is strong. It was nice to see something a bit different from her. I still prefer her first novel, In a Dark, Dark Wood. It's interesting how both explored an old friendship since left behind but felt like very different books. Not by any means a bad thing. I love that Ware has this ability.
2870718918	This book kept me company when I was traveling and even though it has a pretty lackluster ending, I still enjoyed it. I've now read all of Ruth Ware's books, and while I wouldn't say this one is my favorite (The Turn of the Key takes that honor), it does appear I liked it a lot more than many of my other reader friends. It didn't take me long for me to get hooked as Isa, Thea, and Fatima, all receive a text from Kate, with the words, "I need you". They all have busy lives but they drop everything to go to Kate as they fear the big, bad, terrible something that happened during their boarding school days is coming to bite them in the you know what. The story alternates between the present day and the past, as you get to find out how they became friends and the secret they have kept for years.This might not be the most satisfying mystery I have ever read but it held my interest and that counts for something. When I finally got to the big reveal I did feel slightly disappointed because the author didn't have that ace up her sleeve that she could play at the last minute. Pretty much everything was already laid on the table and nothing came across as super shocking. It didn't ruin the story for me as overall I still found this to be an entertaining read. I guess my advice to readers is stay away from this one if you are looking for a book filled with twists you didn't see coming. However, if you have enjoyed the author's other novels and lower your expectations a bit for this one, you might have as good of a time reading it as I did.
2063507576	I really wish I loved Ruth Ware books but sadly I don't. I will say this is my favorite of hers that I have read. I really resonated with the main character and loved the setting of the book but that's where my love stops.I want her characters to be fleshed out more and the mystery to be a little bit more compelling. I do enjoy Ware's writing alot, and will probably keep reading her books for that reason. Her writing draws you in, that is for sure. The main problem I have with her books is the overall mystery and characters.Overall 3/5
2189910951	Four adult women, friends since school, gather again because one of them, Kate, has issued the call for help none of the others ever wanted to hear. "I need you." The four have a history of playing a game of lying that has it's own rules, which are basically about lying consistently and well. But what have they lied about in the past and what is this mysterious summoning that reunites them? That is the central mystery of The Lying Game that gets played out over 400 pages. The Good: The start of the book with the summoning is great. It's followed by the friends reuniting, ala the old friends reuniting in The Big Chill and Last Vegas. The characters are drawn as distinct from one another, the racier ones egging on the less racy. The game they've created about lying is a good conceit. And the twists and turns revealed at the end of the novel are clever. The Less Than Good: Ruth Ware is clearly a talented writer. The Woman in Cabin 10 (minus the first 70 pages) is a terrific novel. Her writing style and character portrayals are winners again in The Lying Game. What is less than scintillating is the plot in the middle of the book. We certainly expect four people coming together to reminisce and enjoy their reuniting. But so many of the middle chapters are one-idea chapters that don't often relate to the plot. It's as if the plot takes a backseat to the women playing subtle mind games or having conversations that don't really lead anywhere. There's one chapter about whether or not the narrator should smoke a cigarette. Another chapter about whether or not to skinny dip. Obviously, there's character interaction and growing pains but the chapters, to me at least, are kind of one-off ideas of the women just spending time together as if there wasn't an emergency that brought them together. Throughout the middle, the women are haunted by an unexplained past, which is Ware's attempt to keep some dramatic tension where there really is very little; there's more character study than plot. Toward the end of the novel, the plot picks back up and the secret is revealed as are some unexpected twists in the story. I enjoyed the beginning and end of the novel and not a lot in between. The publishing house spins this novel as a "slow burner." The novel is definitely a crock pot. For many, this will not be a problem. I'm too plot oriented to sit still when the plot is put on the back burner. That's just me. I look forward to Ware's next book, in which I hope she turns up the heat and gets the plot going in a roiling boil.
4490729474	Ruth Ware books remind me in a way of that one person in the friend group who always takes too long to tell a simple story. While listening to that friend (or reading this book) you find yourself wondering “why is this story taking so long?” “did we need all of these extraneous details?” and “did this story really need to be told?”. The Lying Game is about a friend group of four girls who spent time together at a boarding school where they invented their own little game (yes, the lying one). Scandal rocks the group and they leave school, only to be reunited years later when one of the girls, Kate, sends out a text that she needs them. A body has been discovered in the town they used to school in, and the girls might know more about it than anyone else.This is my third book by Ware and all three of them have been solid three star reads. I’m always intrigued, the concept always sounds really amazing. But the execution just always takes too long and I find myself wondering what all the extra details are for. I will say, Ware is a genius when it comes to the mood in a suspense novel. She nails that aspect down like a pro. Will I read more by Ware? Probably. Will she wow me ever? I sure hope so.
2111393171	Full Review My first thought when I finished this was 'Finally, its over'. It was so boring, there was zero thriller and hardly any mysteryI started reading this some months ago but I am a mood reader (mostly fantasy moods) so I kept dropping it then one day, I decided to just focus on reading this especially since I hardly read contemporary books. Turns out that it was not so great. What I didn't like - Majority of this book is spent keeping us the readers in suspense and at first, I was intrigued, but then it got annoying. It was just so repetitive with 'we did something bad 15 years ago...' The flashbacks were also boring because the author beat around the bush for too long- The reveals were weak and obvious and I am not sure why the girls didn't put two and two together based on what they knew or at-least question their assumptions. Us the readers didn't get the full story until the end and if we did, we would have probably predicted the outcome. What I liked - The only thing that I liked was that it was atmospheric and reading it at night could be scary without anything bad happen. It just felt like something bad was going to happen. I commend the author for her ability to set the right tone
4133723448	the lying game marks my first foray into the world of ruth ware mysteries and has moved me to create an entirely new subshelf, just to inaugurate the experience: damn, bitch, you live like this? for books featuring main characters whose dysfunction and/or incompetence makes you want to raise your eyebrows. as a writer of fiction myself, i'd like to posit that there are two (2) narrative features which become particularly inconvenient when attached to a main character—babies, and pets. they are inconvenient first because they make abnormally sympathetic characters, regardless of a writer's skill, and must be treated with extreme care as a result, and, second because they are super tedious and hard to keep track of for both the reader and the writer. in this instance, we'll be focusing on the first reason, although it should not go unstated that having to read about infant screaming and breast-feeding for nearly 400 pages was a lot like being trapped next a baby on public transport. essentially: if a baby/pet is mistreated by a character intended to strike nuance or sympathy in readers, that character becomes immediately and laughably unsympathetic to most readers with critical thinking skills and basic common sense. ruth ware's choice to insert a six month old baby into the thick of a thriller rife with danger—both human and inhuman—was stupid for this reason exactly. and then it was extra stupid because we're supposed to believe that the woman claiming to prioritize her baby above all else isn't negligent at best and abusive at worst for repeatedly putting her newborn in incredibly dumb, incredibly dangerous situations without a second thought—while ostensible criminals are on the loose in town.i cannot tell you the rage isa wilde struck in my heart during this journey. she is truly and unabashedly the dictionary definition of damn, bitch, you live like this? it's not just that isa is a joke of a mother. it's that she is obsessive and doting in certain places, and idiotically uncaring in others; as a result, her character makes no sense. at one point, she leaves her sleeping baby unattended upstairs—in a house she hasn't been back to in over a decade—while she takes a quick detour down by the water to strip naked and jump around with her besties. later in the novel, she makes it a point to put padding down on the floor of her own home while leaving her baby sleeping upstairs for a quick chat with her husband. strange location, no crib or partner present, with a large dog roaming around while she’s swimming in the sea? totally safe to leave freya alone upstairs for a little while, everyone! at home, with a partner, no pets in sight? oops, let's not forget to account for the baby possibly rolling off the bed and onto the floor!isa is enraged by the sight of kate's unannounced, drunken, tobacco-scented step-brother luc holding her wailing baby in the dark outside, when freya is supposed to be inside with the babysitter. the context of this rage is further crystallized by the interaction that came before it, which was notable for the fact that luc blew up at isa in a public setting while she was with her baby. and yet, this is isa’s treatment of her own baby: we are huddled together on the sofa, freya in my arms. thea is smoking cigarette after cigarette, lighting one from the butt of the other, breathing the smoke out across us all, but i can't bring myself to tell her to stop. damn, bitch, you can bring yourself to suggest your muslim friend's husband made her take up the hijab by force upon reuniting with her, but you cannot for the life of you dredge up the little bit of fucking courage required to ask your white bestie not to fucking breathe secondhand tobacco smoke at your newborn baby's sleeping face, when it is widely known to cause sudden infant death syndrome? MULTIPLE CIGARETTES?!?!?!?! OVER AND OVER? LIKE IF U DON'T GIVE THAT DAMN BABY BACK TO YOUR UNWITTING HUSBAND RIGHT FUCKING NOW!!!!!oh, right, and also, luc is dangerous and impulsive and drunken and prone to bouts of sudden, shouting anger—and violence!—and also lifted your baby from the sitter without asking in the dead of night, but, oh my god, he's french and kind of sexy and probably has (had?) abs and you definitely had the hots for him as a 15-year-old—never mind the fact that your husband accusing you of having an affair with him sent you into an evasive rage at his audacity—so who cares, let's get cozy with luc and the newborn baby at a loud, skeevy bar that reminds you of traumatic childhood memories featuring gross, groping men who spewed vile stuff at you, friends, and other locals?i want to emphasize that i don't expect flawless, picture perfect characters in thrillers and mysteries. this may not be the most fitting point of comparison, but one thing i've always loved about gillian flynn's thrillers—even if her characters are dark, terrible, highly dysfunctional people—is that they are fascinating to follow around over the course of a novel. attempts are made at fleshing them out. ruth ware doesn't even have that excuse. these people are just dumb, dull, horny as fuck, and frankly, i am bored! also what am i supposed to make of luc proclaiming he should have chosen isa as a kid, when they had zero romantic interactions—were literally unambiguously platonic from the start, even if isa harbored one-sided feelings for luc (that he did not hesitate to reject)—and he went back to professing his love to another character a few chapters later? the narrative follow-through in this world is actually appalling.to summarize: it's hard to care about or sympathize with the stupid, selfish mother angry at her husband for daring to accuse her of infidelity—when by that point she'd already engaged in emotional cheating—as her baby nearly loses its life due to her idiocy. like, bro, by the logic of this novel, your baby should already be dead! i'm surprised we even made it a single chapter, much less 370 pages! and the fact that isa completely cut her husband owen out of the narrative, without so much as a phone call the day after freya almost died, is just the icing on top of the terrible cake. isa wilde is not an interesting, complex character. she is a fictional casey anthony and oh my god it pissed me the fuck off!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! if i wanted to read about casey anthony, i'd open up wikipedia!!!!!a few other things i found irritating about this book:• in the second chapter, when isa is explaining to her husband owen her plans to visit kate, she's asked when she would go. "'like ... now,'" is her prompt reply. a page later, she says, "'okay, well, look, i might leave today if that's all right with you,'" to which owen replies, "'today?'" huh? was this not just established several paragraphs earlier? what are ware's editors doing? twiddling their thumbs?• on that note, the number of unabashed comma splices littered throughout this almost 400-page novel made me want to pull my hair out. over and over. again: what are ware's editors doing? how did this kind of lazy prose go unnoticed? • at one point, isa reflects on the warm weather and "the insects still buzzing in the peat." peat...? ah, never mind, just one in another fifty grammatical errors we have to sit through.• the crux of fatima's entire character is being muslim. literally. virtually every speaking character she encounters in this book has something negative + microaggressive to say about her hijab/religion. after the first two or three comments, it was like, okay, is this supposed to be commentary on the sociopolitical landscape of europe, or is it just another case of a white author not knowing how to write a muslim person without making the focal point of her character the islamophobia she faces everywhere she goes—even from her supposed closest friends? with little to no narrative remorse? like, WHAT IS THIS, HONEY: "'so you're just going to sit there and watch us eat [because you're fasting]?' thea says with incredulity. fatima nods, and thea rolls her eyes. i bite down the urge to tell her she can hardly talk [because she just fucking flat out refused to eat her own food a few minutes prior]. one thing about ruth ware is....these damn characters are not gonna develop! if they were islamophobic at the start, you can damn well bet they'll also be islamophobic on page 329! even if they’re a central character! and supposed to be fatima’s best friend!• one thing about isa is……she is gonna sit there and do nothing! unless it involves putting her tongue in a man’s mouth while her baby sleeps alone upstairs in a house without working electricity while her husband languishes away at home!• while reflecting on kate's dad and their former art teacher, isa notes that, "ambrose's classes were different; we learned that straight-away. at first it was the obvious things that i noticed—that ambrose answered to his first name, that none of the girls were wearing ties or blazers, for example." damn, bro, if everyone learned these things right away, why was anyone at all surprised the weirdo presiding over an all-girls classroom was also drawing a selection of these children naked while they played around at his house after hours? and why the fuck was this not treated like the creepy behavior that it is? why was ambrose's in-book treatment more sympathetic than fatima's? the novel is super insistent every step of the way that it wasn't weird at all that this teacher abused his power to watch kids play naked at his place off the clock. no, no, he was fatherly, and affectionate, and an amazing presence in everyone's lives. WHAT? RUN THAT RIGHT BACK REAL QUICK? THE ADULT MAN WHO DREW CP BASED ON HIS REGULAR SURVEILLANCE OF HIS DAUGHTER'S FRIENDS IS A WELL-RESPECTED FATHER FIGURE TO THESE WOMEN, EVEN IN ADULTHOOD...?• at one point, isa notes that every liar has a tell and proceeds to list out each of her friends'. like. um. to the girls who have literally created a game called The Lying Game out of drawing out deceit (FOR THE LAST 10+ YEARS!) and made countless locals their victims, i would damn well hope not! but for four self-proclaimed liars, they are fucking terrible at spinning narratives! and yet they cannot communicate either (otherwise, the lying game would have to end at the 50 page mark).• this book is giving pretty little liars level continuity and character writing. i dare say spencer hastings' evil british twin gave a better performance than isa wilde and her club of merry con artists. toby and his durag was less nefarious than this novel. • the real—untold—victims of the lying game were owen and freya wilde. to the rest of you......GUILLOTINE!!!!!!!!!!!i am no longer taking book club recommendations from reese witherspoon. she can also take a seat.
2015418173	It pains me so much to give a Ruth Ware novel just one star but I have to be honest...this book is boring and doesn't really make sense. It's really a shame but it was torture to finish it and oh my, so many problems... CAUTION> some mild SPOILERS from now on!! I couldn't believe for a second in the friendship of the 4 protagonists. It never seemed real and the amount of time they had together could not convince me of the strong bound. It didn't make sense, either, how they kept in touch for so long without seeing one another and why they had never really talked about their lives all this time but we are supposed to believe they are this close bunch that will do whatever for one another and drop all their lives and go after one single text?Also, the whole secret was so forced, so not mysterious and so over explained at the end that it made my head hurt. What stroke me the most as unusual for this author, after loving her previous books so much was the amount of telling and not showing here; we are supposed to believe a whole lot here but never because we were shown any of it, just because Isa tell us so. It's a lot to require, I swear. I could not accomplish the task, not for a second.The school's attitude, also, come on! Who would ever believe it? Nothing, nothing holds up after some scrutiny here and the entire novel either made me bored to tears or cry in frustration, it was really a mess...
1996809349	Tense, absorbing and eerie!This is a well-crafted, character-driven thriller that takes us on a journey to solve a 17-year-old mystery while delving into the intricacies of a friendship built on lies and secrets and maintained by trust, loyalty, and fear.The characterization is well done with a cast of female characters that are unique, troubled, and self-involved. The prose is clear and direct. The setting is a character in itself with its isolation, dereliction, and dreariness. And the plot unravels subtly and has just the right amount of drama and a past/present style that reveals all the actions, motivations, personalities and relationships within itThis is ultimately an intriguing, atmospheric novel with little action but enough twists and suspense to be unputdownable.Thank you to Simon & Schuster Canada for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.All my reviews can be found on my blog at http://whatsbetterthanbooks.com
2015504156	“A lie. I'd almost forgotten how they feel on my tongue, slick and sickening.”― Ruth Ware, The Lying Game 3.5 starsI am quite torn between giving this three or four stars (Goodreads- when are you going to give us our half stars?!) The first half of book was a real slog for me and I contemplated just abandoning it altogether. But suddenly it picked up pace and became interesting. The story is told from Isa's point of view, as she is called on by an old group of friends, with whom she has had no contact for fifteen years. She returns to the town where she went to school as an adolescent and met three other girls - Fatima, Thea and Kate. It is quickly clear that they share some big secret, and though I was intrigued by this, the slow pace and the characters, with whom I struggled to connect, made me almost give up on it. The title comes form a game the group played as teens, and it is evident that it has stretched into their adult lives as well. They are all keeping secrets and something that happened in their past is forcing them all to be liars still. While the ending and last third of the book picked up pace and grabbed my attention, I was not wholly surprised by the resolution. This sounds as if I have only bad things to say about the book, but it was just so hyped up that I was expecting something magnificent. It was not a bad book, and Ruth Ware is a good writer, I was simply a little disappointed. Also, I should mention, I listened to the audiobook and this may have made me dislike Isa more than was warranted, because the narrator has a very nasal, whiny voice and reads everything with an air of great gloom. This served to build an atmosphere, but after a while, it became irritating, because I felt nothing much was happening and the heightened sense of dread was unwarranted.Anyway... not my favorite by this author, though ultimately not a book I regret having read either. Still, if you are looking into her books, I would recommend the other two over this one.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
1977536492	3.5 Stars → THE LYING GAME is told from the perspective of Isa Wilde, a 30-something Londoner and mother of a baby girl. Isa befriended Kate, Fatima, and Thea as a teen when they attended Salten House, a boarding school in a small coastal English town. The foursome had a "lying game" they liked to play, which of course earned them the reputation of being cruel liars. After tragedy strikes and they're faced with a scandal at school, the girls leave Salten House and go separate ways, but the stress of what happened there will continue to haunt them. Fast forward 17 years, and the four women must return to Salten to face the lies of their past.I have mixed feelings about this book. Ruth Ware is one of my favorite authors, but I don't think this book had the best build up of tension. Lots of drama though! I was very curious about the mystery that the women were hiding, but I felt like the plot was a bit too slow moving. I think I would have preferred hearing other characters' POVs instead of just staying in Isa's head. I did love the creepy atmosphere of the setting. Kate's home is a tumbledown mill right on the water. A solid mystery, though I was hoping for more suspense, less drama.Disclosure: I received a copy of this book from the publisher through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
2063308633	2.5 starsI was so excited to pick up Ruth Ware's The Lying Game , as The Woman in Cabin 10 was one of my favorite reads of this year. Let me tell you right now, if you're expecting The Lying Game to be another iteration of the same story, you will be un/pleasantly surprised. I say it that way because, this story is told in a very different tone and manner than Ware's last two works so you might be caught off guard. The Lying Game starts off with Isa Wilde and her family, where she receives a text from her friend Kate - "I need you." - Immediately, Isa packs up and heads back to Salten, a boarding school set by the English Channel, where Kate resides by. June meets up with Kate and her other high school best friends Fatima and Thea to uncover mysteries surrounding their time at Salten, and reveal the truths about the effects of their dangerous game that they played; the lying game. As the story unfolds, the reader learns a lot about each character without it going too deep into non-relevant characterizations. The best part about this book is the feeling of girl power that I got while reading. I think it'll serve a nice purpose in that aspect. The Lying Game is more of a teen drama than a thriller or mystery to me and it was too much of a slow burn for me to actually enjoy that much. It's not to say that you won't enjoy it, because I can tend to be stuck in my own mindset of what I enjoy with books. Ruth Ware's writing is one of the many reasons why she can slap me in the face, and I'd keep coming back for more. I will be back for the next Ruth Ware novel!
2128066803	Note to author: I get it, breast feeding a baby means "the baby latches on to the mother's breast" to eat. I lost track of the NUMEROUS accounts of the baby breastfeeding. ENOUGH ALREADY!
3484133470	Wow, I was really torn on what to rate this. Two seems too little, three seems too much. But, page turning as this was, I found this mystery unsatisfying and this is my least favorite of Ruth Ware's novels I've read thus far. To be fair, I've been shoveling mysteries in my pie hole pretty steadily these days. Like when you accidentally buy a box of Nutty Bars at the grocery and then an hour days later the box is empty and you don't know what you want next, but you know it's not a Nutty Bar. But I think regardless I'd have problems with this book. When Isa and her three friends were at boarding school somewhere on the southeastern English coast, they had a game called The Lying Game, a slightly sociopathic pastime where they tried to get their peers and teachers to believe various, ever more outrageous whoppers. This gets them into various sorts of trouble until something happens, the game is over, and they are all expelled. Now in the present, Isa and her friends receive a text from their one friend who still lives there that she needs them. Human remains have been found on the beach and these girls and their teenage hijinks are somehow involved. My main problem with the story is the narrator, Isa. About halfway through, she transitions from a responsible, overly anxious person in a happy relationship to someone else who is making a lot of stupid, reckless decisions regularly without any satisfying explanation. Like (view spoiler)[repeatedly putting her baby in danger (the baby is just there to up the stakes) or pitching a fit at her boyfriend out of the blue and walking out when he (reasonably) thinks she's having an affair. Then she disappears for days with their damn baby without contacting him which seems extreme for what had seemingly been up until that week a stable, loving relationship. And the Luc stuff just came out of nowhere. (hide spoiler)] The arguments often feel forced, not organic (particularly with Isa's boyfriend/baby daddy.) And the ending was so maudlin I am still feeling the sour melodramatic aftertaste. I love the Bronte sisters too, but girl, no. I'm just not buying your Nutty Bars this time, Ruth. I do still recommend Ruth Ware though, just maybe don't pick this one to start with her. I loved The Death of Mrs. Westaway and In a Dark, Dark Wood (her first novel) is also good.
2077429739	“...it's amazing how quickly it comes back, the facility to lie.” The Lying Game may be my favorite Ruth Ware novel to date. Yes, it has a lot of the "I Know What You Did Last Summer" vibe going on but I didn't care. I loved the characters, the alternating time frames, the family dynamics, the friendships, the secrets, the small-town dysfunction, the mystery, the thriller components, the social structure, the lying... and once the lying was done, at the very end, when truths were finally forced out, I even loved that. The Lying Game will be a re-read for me for sure. Check it out!My favorite quote:“I didn't have the best childhood. You get fucked-up, you're liable to pass that on.” “Bullshit.” … “If that were true, none of us would ever reproduce. We've all got baggage. What about all the good qualities you've got to pass on?” ... “...no one knows what kind of parent they'll be. Crap people have babies every day – but the difference is they don't care. You do – that's what makes the difference.”8/1/2017:4.5 stars. I really enjoyed this.RTC
2293249642	So.Painfully. Boring. My first experience with Ruth Ware didn't go that well, but since I'm as stubborn as they come, I wasn't ready to give up on her works after one failure alone. I gave it a second chance, only to find myself hating this second read more than the first one. Soooo, yeah...That's it. This book marks the end of this reader/writer relationship Mrs Ware and I never got to have. And it's not like it went by without a little effort from my part.I don't regret reading it, because now I'm sure RW books are not my thing. I just wish things went differently, because seriously, it would have taken so little to turn this book into a more pleasant one. You know those cases in which people say *breakup voice* 'it's not you, it's me?'Yeah, this time it's definitely not me. Plot: dragging Mystery: nonexistent Twists: anticlimactic Characters: dull and confusingThe ending: a total bustOverall review: what a waste of time
3237580241	It’s not my favorite book of hers but I was good. I figured out the ending too early. It must have been pretty obvious because I deliberately try not to figure it out. There weren’t many likable characters, especially when the girls were young. I still gave it a 4, not too shabby. The last 20% of the book, I couldn’t put it down, but thanks to social distancing, I don’t have to get up for anything tomorrow anyways.
2015953304	Lesson learned: don't judge a book by it's global rating... Especially if it's written by an author you like!
2014651034	I’ve loved both of Ruth Ware’s books to date and The Lying Game was probably the one I banged through fastest – once I was in I couldn’t get out again, sucker as I am for a good tale that involves school clique cover ups and future consequences. This author writes some of the twistiest tales out there and I’m never quite sure where she’s going until she gets there.In The Lying Game we have four close friends who have hidden a horrible secret for years and now it is going to come back and haunt them. The group dynamic is tight and compelling, we follow along mostly with Isa, learning the back story and slowly discovering what has them so haunted. Cleverly done and intimately woven, The Lying Game is a mystery and a slow burn of a character drama, a beautifully done mix that keeps you turning the pages.It is a little different from her other two novels, focusing more on the dynamics of the relationships than thrills and spills but certainly there are a few edge of the seat moments. The setting of Saltern is atmospherically described with the decay of the house the girls used to frequent equalling the decay in their current friendship as they all struggle to readjust and find a way out of an untenable situation.I loved the village life focus, the wider cast suspicious and waiting – and the historical school elements were utterly fascinating. I refer you back to I’m a sucker for school cliques.Overall a really great read once again from Ruth Ware and honestly I can’t wait to see what she does next having managed to write three very different novels already each one captivating me entirely.Recommended.
2049863595	Four girls met while they attended boarding school on the marshes of Salten. Years later a three word text message is sent, I NEED YOU. Something has been found on the beach. Something that will force them to confront their past. They used to play the lying game at school but they had promised to never lie to each other.Isabel is the narrator of the story and tells us about the girls past and the event that brought the girls back together. This book is really slow but it's a decent enough read.I would like to thank NetGalley, Random House UK, Vintage Publishing and the author Ruth Ware for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
2043614085	4 Stars After being grossly disappointed by Ruth Ware's last novel; In a Dark Dark Wood. I went into The Lying Game with my guard up, hesitant to truly enjoy the first half of the novel since Ruth Ware let me down last time by completely shitting the bed when it came to the second half of her novel In a Dark Crappy Wood or whatever it's called ; ) BUT I'm happy to say Ruth Ware has completely rectified herself in my eyes with her latest thriller. The Lying Game follows the relationship of four friends; Issa, Fatima, Thea, and Kate and the tragic event that has bonded them so closely seventeen years later. The novel jumps between present day as the women are now thirty-two and the past when the first met at Salten Boarding School when they were just fifteen years old. They are the type of friends that will drop anything in a moments notice to help each other out or specifically when they get the cryptic text 'I need you.' Despite not having any contact with each other for fifteen years as soon Kate sends out their version of the bat signal. All the girls postpone jobs, sort out their children, and travel miles to help their friend out. I liked the characters in this novel. They are all distinct personalities reckless Thea, logical Fatima, emotional Issa, and pensive Kate. Their relationship is both beautiful and odd. As they act like 'ride or die' friends yet they have gone over a decade without speaking to each other. They have this huge secret that bonds them through a decade of zero communication. The tragedy that has always tied them together and made them partners in deception despite not always being in each other present day lives. The author teases out the secret during the first 60% of the novel and as soon as it's revealed you think my god is that it? Jesus that's not too bad. BUT then she piles onto that secret and more truths around that fateful night that bonded these four women when they were just girls comes to light and you spend that last 40% of the novel completely engrossed in the action packed ending. The story and the characters bonds all make up for the point-of-view this story is being told from. We as the readers get to see the story unveil behind the eyes of Issa the most annoying of all the four friends. My god what a drama queen always feeling so much. Sometimes you just wanted to slap her and go CALM THE FUCK DOWN. Every two minutes she was a experiencing another emotion that either took the wind our of her or crushed her internally. It was really exaggerated. I don't know if she's got hormonal overdrive cause she breast feeding but there were chapters of her just dissecting her emotional state that were borderline repetitive and annoying. She was so ashamed of silly little pranks and tricks she did as a child. It was ridiculous. If someone tried to make me feel bad about telling a white lie when I was fifteen I'd tell the person to grow the fuck up! Who feels that guilty for the stupidity of their teeny bopper self. I can't even remember half the shit I did at that age, let alone feel gut crushingly guilty for it. Get it together Issa who cares if you were a bit of a liar when you were fifteen. Overall this is fun atmospheric thriller that really gets going near the end. This book renewed my faith in Ruth Ware and I cannot wait to give The Woman in Cabin 10 a good read!
2342576622	Review published in: https://diagnosisbookaholic.blogspot....Liar, liar, pants on fire...At this point it's not a secret (because I've repeated it ad nauseam) that "One by One" was one of my favorite reads this year. When my friend Susan came up with the idea of a "Lying Game" buddy read I said yes immediately, hoping to repeat the success I had with Ware's latest novel, but sadly I didn't.One of the down points of not reading an author's work when it first comes out is that, instead of moving forward along the author's improvement, you go backwards, and what might have been great at the moment it's just merely ok once you know what kind of stories that author can deliver (I had the exact same feeling when I recently read Riley Sager's first book).While "The lying game" was not a bad book at all it did not draw me in as some of her later books. I thought the premise interesting as I tend to like these boarding school stories located in isolated places, but it didn't deliver as much as it promised. The game of the title wasn't so much a game as just lying for their own survival.I truly felt I was walking down the marsh and I think that was the book's strongest point. I can be more or less interested in her plots, but the atmosphere in Ware's stories is always on point.The mystery itself was very slow paced and when it all came to light it didn't came as surprising as I expected. It lacked some increasing tension leading to the climax.The characters were not the most sympathetic ones. I would have love to read a bit more about their boarding school days to truly understand why they had such a close relationship to the point of leaving everything at a moment's notice with just three words. I had some issues with their initial conflict, but I can't go into them because of spoilers. Let's just say that their actions were a bit disproportionated in light of the info they had at the moment. Also...why so many breastfeeding references?With only "In a dark, dark wood" pending to read, "The lying game" ranks mid-bottom in my Ruth Ware ranking.
1968322861	I love Ruth Ware!! This is her 3rd book and I have loved them all. The story of 4 girls - friends at school and beyond. The story jumps from school to the present and feeds us bit by bit the story of what happened - what the secret they are all keeping from everybody in their lives.I listened to this book on Audible.com and Imogen Church the narrator is one of my absolute favourites. She brings the stories to life hooks you in. I just love the author and narrator combination here.
1814863939	Every once in awhile I find a book that completely grabs me from the first page & I can't put it down til I race to finish it. THIS was the mother of all of those books! Outstanding! Not one dull moment!
4477064053	Drama, lies, and secrets galore! The Lying Game tells the story of four friends who met at boarding school in the small, dreary town of Salten off the coast England. Isa, Fatima, Thea, and Kate all come from different backgrounds and struggle with something as teens. The girls instantly click, and make up a game where they tell lies for the entertainment of messing with others. What they don’t realize is that in forming their close-knit friendship and telling these seemingly playful lies, they begin to shut out the rest of the school and that can backfire. When the girls are involved in a shocking event, they are banished from the school and go their separate ways. The women haven’t kept in touch much or seen each other in over a decade. Kate still lives in the bleak town of Salten in her family’s eroding mill. When she sends a desperate text to the others, they are pulled back into the facade they worked so hard to keep buried in the past. What horrible thing did the girls do? Can their lying game save them this time? Is there more to understand about what took place all those years ago? The novel is fast-paced and suspenseful. Ware quickly draws you in and keeps your interest throughout. I liked how the secrets were unraveled slowly, layer by layer, rather than revealed all at once. I was intrigued and couldn’t wait to find out how the puzzle pieces fit together. Towards the end, there were some surprising and unexpected twists. The story had some sadness, but it showed how one’s priorities and reasons for doing things can change over time. Overall, this was a well-written, fun, and cozy mystery in a eerie and dismal setting.
2112823814	2.5 stars: Author Ruth Ware does a fine job of writing thrillers. This is her third novel, and I’ve now read them all. For me she’s remained steady in her thriller genre, captivating the reader just enough to continue to read.In this novel, four adult women who were friends for a year in an English boarding school are called together with one text from one of the women: “I need you”. Within twelve hours, the three other women drop everything and go to the needy one. Now, this is after more than ten years without any communication. If you can accept that and premise not be bothered by the plausibility of that occurring, then you could enjoy the novel. In general, thrillers do have a bit of unrealistic fiction attached to it. It’s just what the reader will allow for unrealistic to not be distracting.As you can assume from the title, the girls were involved in a game in which duping their classmates was a thrilling goal. Needless to say, the girls are embarrassed by their high school behavior. Well, at least half of them are. As in her previous works, Ware writes using unlikable characters. It’s not necessary to like characters for the novel to be great; however the reader needs to have a reason to continue to read. Ware’s ability to write a suspenseful thriller is a good reason. And that she does, although this one was a bit lengthy. As one can surmise, the request for the get together is because of a lie that was told. Not more can be said without spoilers.Yet, after finishing the novel, if asked, I can’t really say I truly enjoyed my three days spent reading this. It was captivating, but I wished I had spent those three days reading something else.
1961949548	4.5/5 stars for this one!!! I totally enjoyed this book, BUT it's very different from Ware's previous titles. Fans of Pretty Little Liars and readers looking for addictive, fast-paced light suspense will be hooked!! Find my full review on CBTB: http://crimebythebook.com/blog/2017/4...
2982330235	This was the final Ruth Ware book I needed to read now I have read them all. This one was good I enjoyed it whilst not my favorite..... It did remind me a bit of In a dark, dark wood. But I liked that book more.The book is centered around 4 teenage girls at boarding school. The 4 girls gravitate towards each other and become best friends.... they start a game The Lying game. They make up rumors and stories about students/teachers and let me tell you some of them are very damaging, eventually one lie results in getting them all expelled from school.17 years later Kate reaches our to her 3 friends sending an ominous text message..... I need you they know it is serious and make there way back to the small town they never wanted to return to and help their friend. One very deadly lie has come back to haunt them.I did enjoy this book, the ending however was a little (Meh) I give this one 3.5 stars.
1921668522	My goodness this book was about the slowest burn mystery I've ever read! There are so many things about this book that I disliked, however, I see much improvement in Ware's writing this time around, which is this novel's saving grace, I believe. Essentially the story is about a group of four early 30s lifelong friends who have kept a secret since boarding school which is now creeping back up to torment them years later. For the most part, I felt like all the drama that these women experience was for the most part due to their overreacting, and self created. I wanted at times to just scream at this book and say, "tell the freaking truth and it will set you free!" But I guess then that would make this for a very short read. Like I mentioned earlier, this was a very very slow paced read and there are no twists or turns at the end that leave you surprised, it is a pretty straightforward mystery, which I had figured out about a quarter way into the book. Like her previous novels, Ware created a creepy, eerie setting which really helped this book, but that's about the only positive thing, besides Ware's improved writing, that I can say about this book. If we could give half-star ratings I would actually write this a 2.5 star book. Her previous two books, I felt, we're also over praised and I was a little disappointed after reading each of them but this one, by far, left me disappointed, wanting much much more. Despite all this, I still have hope that Ware will put out a book that really creeps me out and leaves me traumatized long after I finish reading it, here's to hoping!
1910969121	Wow! This was really a tough book to finish. I'm so happy this was not my first Ruth Ware book to read. If it would've been, there's a good chance that it would've been my last. I loved The Woman in Cabin 10 and In a Dark, Dark Wood, but this book was not half as riveting as those. The pacing was extremely slow and the big twists were not very shocking. This is one you could skip. I did give it three stars because somehow I kept reading until the end.
2002210857	There is no friendship as intense as when you’re fifteen. Isa, Thea, Fatima and Kate were inseparable at boarding school, a tight closed unit, invincible in the company of each other. At first their game seemed like innocent fun – the Lying Game, invented by Kate and Thea to prove that they could get away with anything, make people believe what they wanted them to. Until it went too far and was no longer a game. Seventeen years later, one lie is still haunting them, threatening to destroy their lives ....Netgalley has come through for me again, with another fantastic read – The Lying Game, by Ruth Ware. After really enjoying The Woman in Cabin 10, this book has been on my wishlist ever since I spotted it on Goodreads. I’m glad to say my little happy dance on receiving an ARC was fully warranted! Within the first two pages, the author had set a scene so vivid, and so compelling, that I was hooked instantly. I love mysteries which take you on armchair travel trips to mysterious locations, and although the small fishing village of Salten is not on any “real” maps, I could picture it so clearly that I feel I have been there: an old tidal mill house on a deserted sand spit, crumbling away into a hungry sea. Delicious!Apart from the location, the premise of the story holds its own unique pull. Four women, who had been inseparable friends when they were fifteen, reunite after seventeen years. What has kept them apart for so long? And what is the terrible secret that still holds such power over them after all this time that they will drop everything and rush to a friend’s aid when she asks them to? I was duly intrigued, loving the main protagonist Isa’s flashbacks to the time the four girls attended boarding school together. And if you haven’t had enough classic British scenery yet, the boarding school, Salten House, is like a mixture of Hogwarts and Malory Towers. My inner child was delighted – who can resist a good boarding school story, even as an adult? I felt a certain sense of longing reading about the teenagers’ friendship – you never quite feel the same intensity of loyalty again that consumed you at fifteen, when your friends were your whole universe.To cut a long ramble short, the book had all the elements to make for a riveting, irresistible mystery. And Ruth Ware does it so well! With her ability to create a tense atmospheric setting and highly strung, somewhat neurotic characters who drive the story with an urgency lacking in other protagonists, the book had me enthralled from beginning to end. Each women brings with her a unique and diverse element that makes this bunch of friends very interesting indeed – and even though this book did not need a “twist you will never see coming” to make it memorable, it had a few surprises in store. Whilst this is a slow-burning, heavily character driven story, there is a constant undercurrent of tension and melancholic longing running through the storyline that made this an extremely compelling read. If anything, I would have loved to find out more about that endless happy summer the four girls spent at Salten, and their individual lives. I was sad when it ended!The Lying Game is a slow, character driven mystery in an atmospheric setting that had me hooked from start to finish. I loved it! With her ability to present interesting characters in a tense and atmospheric setting, Ruth Ware is quickly making her way onto my favourite authors list, and I will be eagerly looking out for future mysteries from this talented writer. 4.5 starsThank you to Netgalley and the publisher for the free electronic copy of this novel and for giving me the opportunity to provide an honest review. *blog* *facebook* *instagram*
3133417894	➽ book 15 out of 100image kindly provided by afictionreality on instagram! Another thriller that just did not hit the mark for me. Again, this is another book that I fully believed I would fall in love with. The boarding school setting and aesthetic gave me such dark academia vibes that I thought would be right up my alley, but unfortunately we were only at the boarding school for about ten percent of the book. I really would have liked to get more character development of the four girls through back story and I think the boarding school setting would have been a really captivating way to find out more about the characters and the lying game that they play. Unfortunately, I felt the boarding school plot and the storyline set in the past to be incredibly rushed. It was all over before the halfway point and that meant there was close to zero mystery anymore, and it also meant we hardly got to know the characters of Ambrose and Luc; two characters that were very central to the plot.This is also a very personal issue, but I get incredibly anxious when small children and babies are in danger. And I have to say that the main character in this book was constantly in a state of panic about her child and kept thinking about all the ways her baby could be harmed whenever she comes across some sort of minor danger or hazard. I get that it’s very much a character trait but the constant mention of it was way too much for me. Not only did it become incredibly repetitive, but it also made me feel super anxious as well, and not the fun sort of anxiety I usually experience when reading thrillers. If this is a major thing for you, I probably wouldn’t pick up this book, because it just did not make for a fun reading experience.Everything about this book just felt so on the nose. One of my least favourite things I tend to see in thrillers way too much, is when the main character keeps alluding to some sort of huge secret or incident they’ve created in their past. Almost all of the time, the secret ends up being way tamer than what they’ve continuously alluded to and this was no exception. The secret was referenced at the end of almost every chapter and it got to the point where I just had to roll my eyes. It’s a trope in thrillers that I hardly ever enjoy and I’ve gotten pretty sick of it.The pacing was just…so off? Does anyone else feel that way? We find out the girls’ big secret around the fifty percent mark and then stuff just kind of happens? I felt like the beginning was super rushed, the middle dragged on, and the ending again was very rushed and not satisfactory or developed at all. Maybe I’m being too harsh but I have just heard so much praise about Ruth Ware’s writing that I can’t help but be a bit disappointed.At the end of the day, this book was captivating enough, and a very quick read so I would really like to try another one of this author’s books so if someone could recommend one to me, it would be greatly appreciated! Hopefully the next one I read will be slightly more enjoyable! tw: infants in danger, suicide, death of an animal, animals in danger, loss of a loved one, alcoholism, eating disorders, cheating, drug use, blackmailread for book roast's O.W.L's Magical Readathonyoutube ❀ twitter ❀ instagram
2106372783	Ok sorry but I couldn't go on with this, I got to about page 211 and decided to call it quits. It just wasn't holding my interest and it felt tedious at times to continue, if its a book I like it shouldn't feel that way, not saying it was bad because a lot of others obviously really liked it but what I read of it merited 2 stars.
1868345368	This book felt like a YA book to me, a cross between We Were Liars", by E Lockhart and Ruth Ware's first novel, "In a Dark Dark Wood" but, not as engaging as either. Four friends, hiding a secret from their youth...come running when one calls despite the fact that they haven't spoken in years. Ms. Ware's first two novels were atmospheric from the start, but this one failed to capture my interest and had me wanting to skim ahead. And, the characters were one dimensional: The ringleader, her boarding school roommate, a Muslim who recently embraced her religion and the new mother, our narrator, Isa, who seemed to be breast feeding in EVERY chapter! This one didn't keep me up reading late into the night..it had me napping in the afternoon! Yawn!
3498440651	Another excellent novel by author Ruth Ware that is so hard to put down. Great characters, good plot and lots of twists and turns that make this a real page turner.A strange text, stating “I need you,” brings four friends back together in the seaside village of Salten. Kate summons the other three friends Isa, Thea and Fatima to meet at her home in Salten where a human bone has been found and threatens to reveal secrets that have remained buried for 17 years. The four teenagers used to play a game they invented called 'The Lying Game' in which they were awarded points by telling lies to their classmates. But with the discovery of the bone the possibility that someone they know has committed murder.
2078287964	In A Dark Dark Wood is the last book I've read by Ruth Ware. An ok read for me. The Lying Game is infinitely better I thought.Isa, Kate, Thea and Fatima are boarding school friends that are reunited have a seventeen year break. Kate is the one that has summoned them back to The Reach in Salten, her home by the coast which is not far from the school the girls attended. The Lying Game is just that, a game concocted by Thea and Kate. The better the lies, the higher the score. All seemingly innocuous and just harmless fun, but is it?Mostly told from Isa's point of view this is a creepy pervading tale that exudes tension. I loved the setting and the whole friendship angle. It reminded me of childhood books about boarding schools that I read over and over with a wistful sigh and an imagining of what a lacrosse stick looked like. Admittedly those adventures were slightly more on the tame side!The Lying Game is a tense, atmospheric, psychological thriller that was engrossing in a subtle way. You could almost picture the hazy, dappled settings with teenage limbs wrapping around each other keeping each other's secrets. An air of carefree abandon that is lost only too soon to then bring about suspicion and wariness as they start to size each other up. Do they really know each other?The mystery itself is a slow reveal and a few times I switched back and forth with my suspects. At times certain aspects did niggle a little. Especially how Isa was able to move from place to place with seeming ease; pushchair, 6 month old in tow. If memory serves me right, if I went anywhere with child/children in tow, half the house jumped on my back with me. I certainly couldn't pack everything into one bag!! No, I never could pack light .... still can't!!Anyhow, just a minor niggle there but overall it's a book I much enjoyed. More than I expected to if I'm honest ..... and that's always a good thing.Highly recommend. Thanks are given for my review copy.
2873603162	به نظر من ترجمه خیلی جالب نبود، هرچند تخصصی در ترجمه ندارم اما یه جورایی برام گنگ و مبهم بود! خود داستان هم چندان کشش نداشت و تقریبا تو سبک و سیاق کتاب قبلی نویسنده بود(زنی در کابین ۱۰)
2047303149	"Draw the person I see." The Lying Game didn't woo me. I have not read the Woman in Cabin 10 or In a Dark, Dark Wood. However, my friends who have read them, have enjoyed them. So I thought I would give her a try. The Lying Game was painfully slow for me. I understand that the author had to build up the suspense in her narrative. I'm good with suspense, in fact, I love it, but in this case, I felt like nothing was really happening. I didn't feel like I learned a lot about their lying game or the other three girls for that matter. The twist was not difficult to guess and the end felt too convenient for my taste.The Plot:It tells the story of four women who as teenagers became best friends during their time together in a boarding school in Salten. Two decades later and they have all moved on but then one of them, Kate Atagon, sends a message with just three words saying: I need you. Isa, Fatima, and Thea leave everything behind and take the trip back to Salten and Kate. Through Isa's perspective, which goes from the past to present, we learn about their game at lying and the secret all four shared. Isa's friends have changed but in some ways, they have remained the same. Isa's an attorney. She's on maternity leave when Kate calls her. She takes her six-month-old baby to Salten with her, leaving her boyfriend Owen behind. Fatima has become a doctor and now she's following her Muslim roots. Thea seems lost. She's drinking too much and she's too thin. Lastly, Kate is the same. Beautiful but hiding secrets from everyone. Positive point:I actually liked all four women. I liked the diversity of their characters. They were there for each other. Just three words were enough to bring them together. I had no problems connecting with them and liking them despite their past mistakes. Cliffhanger: No3/5 FangsA complimentary copy was provided by Gallery via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram
2296537841	Cine a fost curios să citească articolul de pe FanSF despre volumul anterior al autoarei, „Într-o pădure întunecată”, apărut tot la editura Trei, știe probabil că n-am avut doar cuvinte de laudă la adresa lui. Ei bine, nici la adresa volumului de față nu am doar cuvinte de laudă. De fapt, spre final, chiar mă gândeam cum am să-i dau eu două steluțe (cu maximă indulgență) și am să-i scriu o recenzie de toată frumusețea. Dar m-am mai calmat, oarecum. Să vă zic un secret: Ruth Ware are un adevărat dar în a crea personaje feminine extrem de antipatice. O fi de vină mentalitatea mea de bărbat, e foarte posibil, firește, însă o parte din acțiunile personajelor sale feminine mie mi se par pur și simplu cretine. Exemplu: Isa, personajul principal, are o fetiță de șase luni și un soț, zic eu, destul de înțelegător. Dar nimic nu se compară cu promisiunea făcută prietenelor sale în urmă cu șaptesprezece ani. Orice s-ar întâmpla, vom da fuga să ajutăm, lăsându-ne în urmă familiile, copiii, slujbele, casele, tot. Așa că Isa, în ciuda faptului că i se destramă căsnicia și că-și târăște copilul într-o mlaștină periculoasă, la Cucuieții din Deal, total izolată de lume, dă fuguța ca un cățeluș când fluieră stăpâna lui. Dar asta-i doar așa, de încălzire, căci mai sunt multe altele. Iar premiul pentru cea mai enervantă desfășurare a acțiunii merge la... toate cărțile lui Ruth Ware.PS: mi-e și teamă de ce-are să iasă din recenzia pentru Bookblog. Dar poate mă mai liniștesc până atunci.PPS: titluri posibile - „Când familia din prezent nu contează deloc când vine vorba de prietenele din liceu”, „Știu ce-ați făcut acum șaptesprezece ani”, „Jocul minciunilor periculoase”, „Minciunile îți otrăvesc viața”, „Până unde pot merge jurămintele de prietenie” și aș mai avea în tolbă.
2020024427	It seriously pains me to give this book a measly 3 stars. 😭 I love Ruth Ware as an author and I will keep reading her books, but this one just kinda fell flat for me. The ending seemed pretty predictable (and I NEVER see endings coming) and Isa was just not a very likable character for me. The book was hard for me to get into at first, and it did pick up, but I still found myself skimming over a few sentences throughout the book. Overall just not as good as her other books, but still worth the read for a lot of people.
4718733082	Finished this on a long road trip. This having a great representation of female friendship was a nice change of pace. Video will be going up tomorrow ranking all books by Ruth Ware :)
2134025234	Silly cows. My least favorite of the three Ware books I've read.
2339557868	Another good novel from Ruth Ware, somewhat similar to her other two books, I really enjoyed it!
2485443602	I liked this more than In A Dark Dark Wood but it still wasn't my favorite thriller. Ware's mysteries keep me interested enough to finish the book, but I didn't think it was necessarily anything special. The main character and a lot of the mystery reminded me of In A Dark Dark Wood. To be honest I'll probably end up reading all of Ruth Ware's books because they are a decent time.
