2176933619	3.5 ⭐️I must admit I was expecting more from this YA thriller. Greer has just received a scholarship to the prestigious S.T.A.G.S boarding school. As expected though, she doesn't fit in. These kids are the ultimate in privilege; years and years of entitlement and 'Old money' have led to a 'mean girls' like group known as medievals.When Greer receives an invitation from the most popular boy in school to go to his family estate for the weekend, she is beyond excited. Maybe finally she can make some friends and be included.However, she soon realises that what the medievals have in mind is far more sinister than she could have ever imagined. I had a couple of minor gripes. The first is quite petty, but I stand by it. Authors who don't do their research - or just simply use the wrong information. So, the invitation for Greer was to go to Henry's estate Longcross over half term weekend. 1. Half term is a whole week not a weekend.2. The author then refers to the 'bank holiday Monday'. There are no bank holidays over the Autumn term in the UK. Our last bank holiday before Christmas is August, so this just doesn't fit. #sorrynotsorryMy other issue was with the main character herself. Greer is a film buff (fair enough) but she uses every waking moment to compare something that is happening to a scene from a film. I love a film reference as much as the next person, but definitely not that many. There is no way the average reader will have watched the number of films she name drops throughout this book - there are absolutely loads. Second issue with Greer, she calls herself a feminist (which is awesome) but then she says things like "I'm letting down feminism because I worried about what to wear" or "feminism stood a step backward because the first thing I thought when I saw him was that he was hot.". This is just NOT what feminism is. Feminism DOES NOT CARE if you think someone is hot or if you care about what you wear. There is nothing wrong with that!! Feminism is about equality for all, and when people mistake caring about how they look with not being a feminist then we have a problem.Overall, this was an entertaining read. A few parts I didn't really feel added up, and a few times I had to suspend my disbelief. But the twist at the end pushed my rating up by half a star and I might check out the sequel when it comes out.
2746982014	2.5 starsIntriguing premise, with a plot that is fine at first, but eventually becomes unbelievable, then ludicrous. A slight but entertaining book ruined by heroine's distraction by a blue-eyed charmer (view spoiler)[AFTER she knows he's a maniac (hide spoiler)], a superfluous continuation post-climax, why-haven't-you-caught-up-to-the-clues-yet frustration, hard-to-swallow mindsets, and occasional poseur shock style (view spoiler)[dude. you didn't MURDER him, and repeating it incessantly means any sympathy for your guilt over your involvement is negated (hide spoiler)]. It's to the credit of the perfect narration by Katharine McEwan that the experience was as compelling as it was. I barely noticed how slight the characters were or how hole-ridden the plot was until halfway through the book.An audio review copy was provided by the publisher.
2075498576	"S.T.A.G.S." written by M.A.Bennett is a superb story that was such a different read to my normal books, yet still in keeping with the thriller genre.I knew as soon as I started reading this that I was going to enjoy it and I wasn't proved wrong. With twists and turns right to the very end, readers will love this book - so easy to follow with brilliant characters (I could certainly see the attraction with Henry) and a seriously captivating plot. Greer MacDonald has won a scholarship at the very elite and prestigious St. Aidan the Great School in Northumberland. She doesn't make many friends at the school due to not being the wealthy and socially acceptable student all the others are. When Greer receives the much coveted annual invitation to join a group of 'Medievals' (unofficial prefects of the school) at Longcross Hall, she accepts the "huntin' shootin' fishin'" invitation in the hope she will make new friends and be socially accepted. However, things aren't as they seem in the invitation and things start to go disastrously wrong once the deadly weekend gets underway. We know from the start that a death has occurred - quite possibly a murder - and we are taken on a twisty turny journey that Greer relates in great detail, keeping the reader engrossed in a tale of medieval history, traditional blood sports and the power of long established well to do families. Living myself beside the hauntingly beautiful counties of Northumberland and Cumberland, I could really relate to the areas the school and Hall were located, the descriptions were truly spot on! I also particularly enjoyed the little references Greer made relating to movies incorporating film scenes where that situation was occurring, and the fact it was written in the first person means we get to hear Greer's doubts and feelings first hand. "S.T.A.G.S." could easily be made into a movie, there's a huge audience of all ages that would enjoy this story and I highly recommend the book - I thoroughly enjoyed it and I would happily read it again. 5 stars.
2295346691	This was a unique, creative, and thrilling novel that is not typical within the Young Adult genre. It almost felt as if it was a combination of "Pretty Little Liars" by Sara Shepard and the movies "Scream" and "Mean Girls". It was a different story and not only in the idea but the execution of the crimes. Admittedly (and unfortunately), as much as I was a fan of the idea surrounding the plot, this novel was just not for me. It was a case of "it's not you, it's me". The writing was well done but my full attention was not getting grabbed. Throughout the novel, I found myself becoming easily distracted and not as invested in the story as much as I hoped to be. Also, I didn't find that any of the characters (even in the main friendship group) were likeable. That's my personal opinion but that can detract from the novel when I find I'm not as invested in figuring out the character's outcome. Lastly, typically I'm a fan of social culture/media references but this novel took movie references to the extreme. It originally was enjoyable but the novel eventually was fully saturated with unnecessary references. As a debut, I would say this was well done for the author as it was a unique and creative idea. Also, the ending was the perfect mixture of conclusion along with suspense. I'm interested to read more from this author in the future.***Thank you to Penguin Random House Canada for sending me a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review***
2130166279	** spoiler alert ** Well, this is just a train wreck from start to finish.I was really looking forward to this book. I'd waited until I had nothing pressing to do and could just curl up and enjoy it without any distractions. I was so hopeful. Rich kids being hunted, what could be better than that, huh?Let's start at the beginning...Greer is not a rich kid. She's won a scholarship to STAGS, this super prestigious school set in the beautiful Lake District. Greer is an outcast because she's not rich. I can get behind that. Then she receives an invitation to spend the half term at one of the rich kids houses. Not just any rich kid though, this is Henry de Walencourt. He's the leader of the 'Medievals' - the super snotty rich kids that hate everybody else. She's ecstatic, she thinks it means she's going to become one of them. She's also totally dizzy. I hate her.When she arrives at the manor house, she discovers that the other two guests are also misfits at her school. There's Chanel, who is rich, but oh-no! It's new money. Totally the wrong kind. And there's Shafeen, who's from India, and yes we're going to play the race card here. There are also all six of the snobby kids here.Hunting: On the first day they go Stag hunting. At this point I will happily admit that all the hunting elements in this book are meticulously researched. Good job!While the team are hunting the Stag, our heroine waxing on about how beautiful it is and how she wishes it didn't have to die. Then she's quite happy to be the one to pull the trigger at the end. That's right, people, she shoots the damn deer because the pretty rich boy asked her to.About now we discover that Chanel is missing. Along with all the hunting dogs. About 50 dogs vanished and nobody notices anything until they lose Chanel. Of course not.We find Chanel crouched in a cave opening to escape the frenzied pack. Because, you know, dogs are bigger than 17 year old girls and can't fit.Long story short, it turns out Henry had slipped some Anise seeds into her pocket to attract the dogs to chase her. Because dogs would turn away from a dead stag to chase a girl for some seeds. Then they all go home and have dinner. Fun!Shooting: Shooting pheasants is the order of the day, and because we're all looking at the sky, nobody sees who is was when poor Shafeen gets shot. He says he'd be dead if he hadn't turned at the last moment and got shot in the arm instead. We all head home, and our misfits sneak into Shafeen's room and decide they are being hunted. Hooray!They decide to snoop around the house in the dark, and find a series of hunting books in the library that documents that the de Walencourt's have been hunting people since the middle ages. They take a bunch of photos for evidence and decide to formulate a plan for tomorrows fishing trip.Fishing: Greer knows it's her turn so she puts on a wet suit - handy it was just lying around right? - and sets out fishing with Henry. He pushes her off the boat and then the snobs all start throwing fishing hooks at her. She manages to swim over to a waterfall, climb to the top while being chased by Henry, have a three page soliloquy about Robert Downey Jr's portrayal of Sherlock Holmes - seriously, I'm not making this up - before revealing that Chanel has been filming Henry's confession all along on her phone. He then does the obvious thing and throws himself off the waterfall to his death. Obviously.Then we all go home and lie to the police about what happened, because who wants to tell them the truth, right? The kids all go back to school when they realize - hang on! - it's a cult! And everyone in the school is in on it! With all the evidence they have, they should do something about it, right? Shall we tell parents? Nope. Police? Nope. Media? Nope. Let's tell the headmaster because he has, and I quote - a Santa Claus twinkle in his eye.The headmaster is sympathetic. He fires the teachers in on it. Makes the school a better place! Yay, happy ending. Nobody got justice or anything, but Henry's dead, so happy ending?Prologue: Until that is the Stepford Twins come to school. They're Henry's cousins and they're taking a lovely young black girl home with them this half term to carry on the tradition. Nooooooo! Oh, and the headmaster was in on it too! All along! Nooooooooo!The end?Seriously? I've not even touched on some the things I really hate about this book yet. Oh no, I've not even started.Let's start with the fact that it ruins films all the way through. Whenever the main character sees something she has to relate it to a movie. Okay, this is sort of character building, I guess. But not only does she talk about the movie, she spoils the ending. Literally every time, with loads of films! It's not fair!Then there's this lovely snippet: - The last thing we needed would be for some hillbilly Lake District community to start doing weird witchcraft and setting fire to us in some straw effigy[sic]...Now, I actually live in the Lake District and I have found this to be the most insulting piece of writing I've ever read! Does the author really think we're all yokels here? Wow. I'm actually furious, and deeply, deeply hurt by this insult insinuation.Our main character is wholly unlikable. She's supposed to be nice, but she refers to one of the house keepers at the manor as a 'miserable hag'. The poor woman hasn't even done anything wrong! The only reason Greer doesn't like her is because on the first night at the manor Greer called her husband, and now assumes the woman hates her for it.Then there's the problem with Robert Downey Jr.For some reason our heroine, and I can only assume the author, really hate him.Not only does she go on and on about what a terrible movie Sherlock Holmes is, she pointedly says she wouldn't have cast Downey, and repeats three times what an awful movie it was. Sad Robert. Don't worry Robert, I still love you!When Greer returns to the manor in a wet suit and lies to the police about how Henry died, nobody questions her.Um, Miss? Why are you wearing a wetsuit? Why are you soaking wet and bleeding?Then they all decide not to tell the police because they don't want to ruin the lives of the evil snotty kids who were trying to kill them. What? No point heaping disgrace on the family just to make ourselves feel better. His dad's obviously a shit, but his mum might be OK.The actions of these five, they were undoubtedly cruel, but were they murderous?I thought of the bother - questions, hassle, parents knowing, press knowing...The Friars, it seems, are guilty too, but I do not know enough of the law to tell you with any certainty if they can still be prosecuted for crimes that took place almost fifty years ago.Instead of ruining five young lives - and condemning their characters as wholly evil when they may now improve without the malign influence of their ringleader.There are all direct quotes from the book! And these kids are supposed to be smart! Ugh!And then the creme de la creme. The one thing that moved this book from strong dislike, to hate. This one line: Reader, I'd started going out with him.At no point in the book had the main character broken the fourth wall before. She'd never addressed the readers. This is a blatant imitation of the famous line that closes Jane Eyre - Reader, I married him. How dare such a line be lifted from a work of literary genius and forced, kicking and screaming, into this train wreck of a novel? It's a travesty! I'm sorry people, but I cannot hate this book hard enough. It's awful. Skip it, burn it and bin it. Read something worth your time. Read Jane Eyre.
2604362119	Sometimes you know from the very beginning of a book that you are going to thoroughly enjoy it and this was definitely that book. Greer MacDonald wins a scholarship to the prestigious STAGS (St Aidan the great school). She finds it hard to make new friends as old money trumps new and it’s an old establishment where one’s ancestry is very important.When Greer receives an invitation with the words “huntin, shootin and fishin” from the very popular Henry Cookson, it looks like her luck has changed. Unfortunately with no parents around to supervise, this weekend away goes from bad to worse and the animals are not the only thing being hunted!!Although I do not agree with hunting, It was a fascinating story full of old fashioned traditions.A book for any ages, that manages to keep building the tension up. You know from the first line something bad has happened and it’s the not knowing what it is that makes this a very hard book to put down!!Thank you to Netgalley for a copy in exchange for a review.
2025500191	↠ 4.5/5 starsI think there's a pretty clear reason why I liked this and rated it so highly. If Tartt's The Secret History and Stiefvater's The Raven Boys had a lovechild, it might look something like this book. It undoubtedly takes more after The Secret History in terms of narrative, but it has key themes that both TSH and TRB share: wealthy youths; private schools; youths doing ill-advised things and taking advantage of their affluence; a newcomer to a group of glittering, enigmatic people.An enjoyable YA thriller that focuses on British heritage, class and the ever-revolving debate of 'old vs. new' with a chatty female lead and enjoyable secondary characters. For a lengthier review, come visit my blog (It's worth the trip, I promise!)
2540616952	So for me, Stags was just an OK read: one that I was initially very much looking forward to reading: Unfortunately, it didn't deliver the expected results and I found I enjoyed the idea behind this story more than it's actual execution.This was in itself an interesting premise: Primarily a YA book Stags is an Elite boarding school steeped in tradition and elitism.Our main girl Greer is a recent scholarship student at this prestigious establishment and she just wants to fit in with her new peers.The main Clique at Greers new school are called the medievals: this unique group of privileged individuals stick to all things old world in there dress and reject the modern conveniences of the twenty-first century.So there was such a heavy ominous undertone throughout this and the emphasis here is heavily on the class divide and the over-privilege of the upper classes compared to there working class peers. There is an almost bigoted elitist bias towards what they see as lesser individuals as if the accident of there birth makes them somehow superior in some way.The venom towards anyone they perceive as reaching above there current station in life is absolutely shocking.Poor Chanel a classmate of Greer's seems to get it heavily from these snobs mainly because her father is new money which is apparently worse than just being working class or a scholarship student.She's stuck in an almost no man's land where she belongs to neither faction she just doesn't quite fit either mould.Even the servants seem to share the popular attitude and bias.So this is told exclusively from Greer's POV and Greer, Chanel and another student Shafeen: Indian royalty but who doesn't fit in either are invited to the estate of classmate Henry de Warlencourt along with his fellow medievals Cookson, Piers, Charlotte, Esme and Lara for a weekend of huntin, shootin, fishin.So as I said intriguing; although that still wasn't enough to elevate this for me into a higher rating bracket.The writing itself was fine if slightly over-descriptive and I did find myself bored and as a consequence skimming slightly.I also found all the random movie references a bit bizarre and long winded.I felt a lack of personal connection with the characters themselves and found they lacked depth and were a bit one-dimensional.Greer herself seemed easily swayed by a pretty face in spite of the mountain of evidence revealed to her here.I did find Shafeen an interesting character despite sharing similar backgrounds with the medievals he couldn't be more different in temperament and ideals.The twist at the end of this did redeem things for me slightly it was a tad predictable but still a great finale.This wasn't quite my thing but that's just me you might appreciate it more than I did.I voluntary reviewed an Arc of S.T.A.G.S.All opinions expressed are entirely my own.Reviewed By Beckie Bookwormhttps://www.facebook.com/beckiebookworm/www.beckiebookworm.com
2147452623	Honestly, this book made me angrier than I thought was possible. And it wasn't because I didn't enjoy the book (which happens!) but because this book LIED to me. It's like that episode of Bob's Burgers: If you're wondering what the "lie" is, it's literally the first sentence of the book. The sentence that's supposed to hook you and keep you reading. And it did - at first. But it was a hook built on deception and that my friends it what pissed me off the most about this book.But there were other things.For one, I honestly couldn't stand the writing. And I don't think it was a 'stylistic' thing as these things often are. The writing was just really... off-putting and jarring. Instead of writing actual descriptions of things, the writer added 'kind of' or 'sort of' and pretended like that helped. E.g.:"It was completely square, a kind of thick ivory envelope folded over on four sides.""There are tiny black beads, sewn in a kind of swirl on the front, the kind of swirl you see flocks of starlings doing at dusk.""He had on a checkered shirt and a sort of quilted green waistcoat."The "sort ofs" and "kind ofs" go on and on and on... These are examples I picked from quickly skimming the first 30pgs. By page 100 I was like ughhhhhhhhhhh.There was also no tension in the writing. For a thriller, you need tension. But I felt like Bennett was just not good at writing it. The "most intense" scene of the book was boring and I didn't care. It wasn't written in a way that makes your heart thump or puts you at the edge of your seat.I also saw the "twist" at the end coming a mile away because it was the most un-subtle thing ever written. Also also, the book is written in a cringey way where the main character constantly breaks the fourth wall but for literally no reason. She's like "Have you seen this movie? Well..."And I'm like PLEASE STOP. WHO IS YOU? WHO ARE YOU TALKING TO AND WHY!?!There are brackets in the middle of sentences breaking the fourth wall for NO reason at all:"Sherlock and Moriarty are in Switzerland, and Robert Downey Jr - he's Sherlock Homes (bear with me, I was doubtful too - but he's actually good)." Yeah, this is when Greer has literally been lured to her death and IS ABOUT TO DIE. But she just goes off into a monologue about Sherlock Holes and then tells US the readers that we should bear with Robert Downey Jr as Sherlock Homes. Because that's tense and thrilling, right???Also, some of the colloquial jargon she uses in the middle of writing honestly made me cringe:"In films, you see, if someone's still alive, whatever state they're in, they leave the face uncovered - obvs - so the person can breath." GREER A MAN HAS LITERALLY DIED AND YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO BE CONSUMED WITH GUILT but oh yes, go ahead and tell us what - obvs - happens in films when there's a death. There are also so many obvious inconsistencies that the book read like a first draft that the writer had forgotten to go back and edit. Like in the first few chapters, Greer says she wonders why Shafeen decided to accept the invitation to go on the hunting trip.... but then he tells us literally a few chapters later. And then AGAIN a few chapter after that. Is Greer just daft? I mean... yes, as Greer would say - obvs. BUT SERIOUSLY. Speaking of Greer, I really, really, really, really disliked her. She was just incredibly daft. I seriously question how she managed to get a scholarship to this academy. The first thing that made dislike her was when she declares that the medievals (the mean kids at school) aren't really racist after they're literally racist in the most obvious way you can ever imagine:Quote from the end of page 20:"Little shit," he hissed, under his breath."Not little," murmured Piers. "He's a long, brown shit.""Like the ones you do after a vindaloo," agreed Cookson. "Long and brown and smelling of curry." (all in reference to a brown, Indian character)The first sentence of page 21:"The medievals were not straightforward racists."Uhmmm....She just gets worse and worse and worse. She constantly talks about how she's a bad feminist because basically every time Henry even glances at her, she loses brain function. And uh, yeah. You're right to worry. But this isn't bad feminist in the Roxane Gay essay kind of way. It's just... bad. It gets so bad that she almost dies because that's how bad she has it for Henry!(view spoiler)[Later on in the book, she loses brain function every time Shafeen looks at her because OMG HE LIKES HER (hide spoiler)]The other characters were pretty one-dimensional, boring, and inconsistent.So much of the book made absolutely no sense. Like you know, I get it's an elite school full of kids who are really loaded but...(view spoiler)[in what world, would an entire school of pupils be on board to help a bunch of "medievals" hunt and murder kids who don't fit in? If it was just the couple of kids and teacher, I could understand that. BUT THE ENTIRE FUCKING SCHOOL? And nobody is suspicious that kids go on these hunting trips and then just die? Constantly? SINCE THE FUCKING CRUSADES???? NOBODY PICKED UP ON THIS AND SAID HEY MAYBE I WON'T SEND MY KID THERE!?!I just don't understand why Nel, Shafeen, and Greer would watch Henry die and be like "well, I KNOW he was an awful guy who murdered loads of people in cold blood and tried to murder literally all of us but he's dead now, let's give him a break and not tell the world he's a murderer." Like it's taking not speaking ill of the dead to a whole new level. But oh of course it must be there all-consuming guilt which makes no sense because HE KILLED HIMSELF AND THERE WAS NO FUCKING MURDER AKAJGFAJKDGAJKFGKAFJGFJK. (hide spoiler)]Okay, I'll stop ranting and let you get on with your day. But... just fyi I highly recommend you do NOT get this book. Don't be swayed by the pretty cover and exciting tagline. I was fooled by them, and look where it left me.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2086163979	*Thank you to the author and Netgalley for giving me an ARC in exchange for an honest review*2.5 startsI was looking forward to reading this book - the premise sounded great and I had not read anything like what the plot suggested I would be getting. And I did enjoy it... to a degree.I had zero connection with any of the characters in this book. Yes, their appearences were described, but I never got a sense of who they were as a person, and so honestly, I didn't care what their fate would turn out to be, whether they lived or died... meh.I continued to read because I was waiting for the intense, bloody action to begin, as suggested by the blurb, "One deadly weekend...The students are at the mercy of their capricious host, and, over the next three days, as the three bloodsports - hunting, shooting and fishing - become increasingly dark and twisted..." I don't know if it was just me, but I never got the sense of anything being "dark," "twisted" or "deadly." I mean yeah it's obvious that (view spoiler)[it's not only the animals that are being hunted (hide spoiler)] but I never got the sense that they were in danger.One thing that seriously bothered me was how the MC, Greer, continuously, and what felt like in every second sentence, made a movie reference. From the Godfather Part II to Lawrence of Arabia, The Princess Diaries to The Jungle Book...every movie under the sun is referenced by Greer. We get it. Your dad is a cameraman and you have a mutual love for films. CALM DOWN.Everything I've said so far is pretty negative BUT as a whole, this book is definitely one of the better ones I've read this year; it's good for what it is, I just expected more :)
2738121598	Elitarna szkoła średnia, uprzywilejowane dzieciaki i weekend, który na długo zostanie w pamięci w doskonałym thrillerze młodzieżowym „STAGS” M.A. Bennett.M.A. Bennett zadbała o to, by fabuła jej powieści przywodziła na myśl klasyczne filmy rodem z lat 90., których akcja rozgrywała się właśnie w elitarnych szkołach, a w których dzieją się co najmniej dziwne i niepokojące rzeczy. Tym samym nawiązuje tutaj do tradycji klasycznych brytyjskich szkół prywatnych, w których tworzą się specyficzne grupy, a nawet tajne stowarzyszenia o kontrowersyjnych kodeksach postępowania. Takim miejscem jest tytułowy STAGS, w której prym wiodą dzieciaki oderwane od rzeczywistości, skrajnie uprzywilejowane, które wiedzą, że mają wpływ na otaczającą ich rzeczywistość i jedyne na czym im zależy, to utrzymać status quo. Utrzymanie go staje się głównym priorytetem, najwyższą wartością, która zaciemnia wszystko inne, zrzuca na drugi plan.„STAGS” to diabelnie wciągający thriller młodzieżowy, który spodoba się nie tylko młodszym czytelnikom. Całość opiera się na znanych motywach, jednak M.A. Bennett potrafi wciąż zaskoczyć. Wszystko to dzięki intrygującej narratorce, która wprowadza czytelnika w swój świat, robiąc to na własnych zasadach, ale w taki sposób, by od razu wejść w jej skórę, stanąć za murami szkoły i poczuć jej przytłaczającą tysiącletnimi tradycjami i regułami atmosferę. Tutaj nie ma wzruszeń, nie ma przebaczenia – są Ludzie Średniowiecza i Dzikusy, a to, do której grupy przynależysz wiadomo od wielu pokoleń i nie da się przeniknąć magicznej bariery, która je oddziela, nie da się wkroczyć do innego świata. Nawet za najwyższą cenę.Czyta się jednym tchem!
2132414353	what a dark, thrilling read set in a lush and posh estate with shady secrets. being rich must be nice sometimesfinished this in 2 sittings and i'm so proud of myself.
2390671380	This book is the definition of boredom. I can't believe I finished it even though i liked nothing about, not a thing.I could've reread 13 Minutes or Little Monsters or We Were Liars and i would had a very good time but instead i chose this book and it ended up being one brutal exhausting and totally disappointing reading experience that bored the feelings out of me. Full review now postedHate is a strong word. I don’t use very often in my life, I don’t think I’ve ever used at all when talking about books, except maybe once and I don’t like to use it at all. But S.T.A.G.S brought out that emotion in spades and I hated every single moment of this miserable nightmarish experience. If I could take away the memories of reading this book out of me, I would. I hated it that much.So is this going to be a decent review? No chance in hell. this is going to be filled with me ranting and saying things that’s not going to make any sense because I’m so angry that I wasted my time with this thing that I can’t think straight. Another thing, I’m not going to be using the characters names in this review because I remember them not and I’m not interested in going back to the book and rediscover their names so I will be using the good guys and the bad guys so I won’t spoil anything for you.So let’s start my ranting by saying that if you’re looking for your next young adult thriller then get out of here as fast of you can because nothing about this book is thrilling and if you think you’re getting into a survival story with guts and stakes then well there’s survival arc alright but it’s so underwhelming and badly executed that if leaves nothing to be desired. I assure you you’ll have a greater time with books like We Were Liars, 13 Minutes and Little Monsters. These three boos are mysterious, atmospheric and disturbing in a way this book wasn’t.So let’s now move on to the things that I’m salty about with this book. S.T.A.G.S was in the front of my mind since it was released and I decided that I’ll be reading it for sure. Famous yet ambiguous boarding school, people with hidden agendas and a survival story with a spooky nature, that’s what I thought the story has to offer. But now that I’ve read this book, I’d like to go back in time to my former self and shake her into submission so she won’t read the book and I won’t be writing this review right now. But ALAS, regret is no help for me. I’m telling you guys that writing these types of reviews is no fun at all. It’s draining all the positive energy and making me exhausted but we all gotta do what we gotta do. The story has a promise and a potential, I’ll give it that but it was soon slaughtered with those long descriptive passages that did nothing but annoy and bore me to death. I mean the story is less than 300 pages and for most of the times I’m stuck inside that heroine head while she’s describing everything her eyes lay upon. I know that the bad guys live in luxury like royals but do we really need to hear about that every single chapter. I hate long descriptive passages especially when they offer nothing to the plot and with this book, not only they were repetitive and boring but it also took space that could’ve been given to more character and plot development. Speaking of plot, it was so underdeveloped and so predictable that I felt like I was drowning in all the nonsense going on. I understand that the story strived to be creepy and disturbing and twisted but for me it was all ridiculous and unbelievable. The lack of suspense and stakes also killed my intrigue and my interest faster than quicksilver. Right from the start, we know who the bad guys are and who the good ones are. We know a murder took place, we know who was the victim and the identity of the killers. We knew everything so it’s all about how we get there and I was actually looking forward to it but the it all become clear for me and to be honest, it doesn’t take a genius to figure out where the story is headed every single chapter and how it’s going to turn out. It felt like the story lacked all the crazy elements that my favorite thrillers tend to exploit very well in crafting an engaging story that leaves no room for boredom or predictability. And even the survival aspect of the story was written in a poor way. The good guys didn’t survive because they were bloody tough and know how to handle themselves in the midst of dangerous situation; the truth is that they were manipulated into thinking that they survived due to that. For me, it was a stroke of lack that one of the good ones happens to have a very valuable item in her possession that they used to their advantage. Without that item, they would’ve been toast.And speaking of the characters, I didn’t like any single one of them. Let’s start with the villains. They are not written in a way that makes them fascinating or interesting. They do all of these things that are evil but for what reasons, where’s the motivation that can convince me that these should be really considered great villains. For me, it was so ridiculous and weird and didn’t feel that well thought out. The good ones weren’t that better. Their characters were flat and one dimensional and didn’t peak my interest for a second. But let’s just say that the main female character is the worst of them all. She was dull, stupid and easily manipulated. Like what the hell was she thinking most of times, behaving that way even though it was abundantly clear that something is wrong with the students that invited them. No, she actually doesn’t care about that, not when the main villain is so handsome and his eyes are so deep and beautiful and he makes her feel so pretty. I mean what she is doing for heaven’s sake. She knew how bad he was and she has a very solid proof on all the horrible things he’s done but he’s actually look pretty good and concerned so to hell with all the dirt she has on him. He can’t be possible that bad and that handsome, can he now. I swear that girl has the intelligence of an empty chair. And to see her disregard her friends worries for him and putting their lives in danger because she’s just that infatuated with him. I can’t even with her. I just can’t But you know, if I have to mention a one thing that didn’t suck that much, it’d probably be the ending. If the book had the same vibe and intrigue of that final chapter, you would be looking at my next favorite young adult thriller but instead here we are.
2915838957	2,5 Sterne
2473222339	‘Nine students. Three blood sports. One deadly weekend.’This book is an okay read, but didn’t really live up to its potential.It is different from standard YA releases and the concept is great. The problem is in the execution. Greer is a fish out of water as a scholarship student at this exclusive school for the extremely wealthy. Largely ignored by her peers, she finally feels like she is being accepted by the elite group at school when she receives an invitation. Greer is thrust into their world of privilege, but comes to realise things are not what they seem.After getting off to a slow start, this book suffered from too much time spent on things happening to other characters, not the protagonist. It felt like the action was a little too distant to really create much tension for the first half of the book. Then when the tension should have been acute, it’s completely undercut by the oscillating thoughts of the main character, which made her seem stupid. The other tension killer is that there’s never any doubt of the outcome as the story is told in past tense. It’s too predictable. The set up for the ‘twist’ at the end isn’t credible unless, once again, the main character is stupid.The movie references became annoying. The first one isn’t explained immediately. It’s just a random ‘It’, which totally pulled me out of the story.I did enjoy this book in parts, but I wanted a lot more fear.
6720390065	2,5⭐
4096751122	2,5 Wydaje mi się, że S.T.A.G.S jest książką ze zmarnowanym potencjałem. Na pierwszy rzut oka historia wydaje się naprawdę przyzwoita i ciekawa. Niestety w moim przypadku styl pisania autorki i kilka innych czynników spowodowało, że moja ocena jest tak niska ;(
3971691082	Me vendieron gato por liebre y compré como una campeona.La sinopsis nos promete que este libro va a ser una mezcla de Los juegos del hambre y ese episodio de Los Simpsons que el señor Burns los invita a todos a su mansión para cazarlos (ni idea qué parodia, sorry). Y en cierta manera lo es, pero desarrollado de la manera más sosa y aburrida posible. Y con una resolución irrisoria y tirada de los pelos, solo para continuar la historia. Me siento ofendida por el trato que le dio al final, subestima por completo la inteligencia de todos. Del lector y de los personajes (y eso que me irritó la protagonista con sus tres referencias al cine por párrafo, con su asco a la menstruación y SU DISCULPAS CONSTANTES AL FEMINISMO POR SENTIRSE ATRAÍDA A LOS CHICOS, pero ni ella era tan estúpida como ese final). Estoy furiosa, este libro lo prometía todo, pero la autora subestimó a su público.
2157788546	Heel tof, maar ik zag alles aankomen. Binnenkort mijn recensie.
2211907758	Full Review on The Candid CoverS.T.A.G.S honestly surprised me. It is a very eerie story with a twisty plot and an intelligent main character. The story definitely strays from the classic private school book I was expecting. Although this book is a thriller, I feel like there isn’t enough action, and I would have enjoyed more suspense.It’s so hard to describe this book without spoilers, but basically, it tells the story of a girl who is invited to the annual weekend trip with the most popular kids in school. She is skeptical, since she is considered an outcast, but goes on the trip anyways. As expected, the trip takes a dark turn, and she finds herself trapped in a house with no adults. It was originally the private school aspects that drew me to this book, but we don’t get to see a lot of the actual school. Also, I found that the book lacks action for the kind of story that is is, and everything happens at the end. The idea is very creative, but I just feel like it falls a bit flat.I really enjoyed Greer’s character in S.T.A.G.S. As a scholarship student in a school for the rich, she doesn’t fit in with the others. However, on the trip, Greer is resourceful and clever, and she is good at manipulating those who are trying to manipulate her. She is also quick to defend her newfound friends, which I loved. The one thing I will say is that the constant movie references do get annoying, but other than that, she is likeable.S.T.A.G.S. is a darker take on a private school weekend trip. The main character is likeable, and the concept is intriguing. However, I would have liked more action in this thriller, and a faster paced plot.
3542975042	*Thank you so much to HotKeyBooks for sending me a copy in exchange for review!*I’m new to the YA Thriller genre, having read a lot of adult thrillers I didn’t think this would have the same level of intrigue and while the concept sounded amazing I didn’t know if I was going to enjoy it. I enjoyed it. A lot.This is essentially a cult thriller, with a touch of dark academia vibes. Sort of like the secret history, but with a bunch of rich, white and privileged seventeen-year-olds. It was so fun to read. It was well written, sometimes when I got into school-based YA I get worried that it will be a touch too childish for my taste, but this was perfect. I also appreciated the pop culture references - it was done subtly and not too often to become try-hard. It was very entertaining.There was a great depiction of hierarchies of power, racism and ‘otherness’ in this book. Though it is set in an elite private school with predominantly white characters, there is a protagonist of colour in this book, with hints of there being more diverse characters in the next one so I look forward to that.It was predictable when I got to the middle, but then the ending shocked me. The elements of mystery were hit and miss, but it still remained a page-turner and I cannot wait to read the other books to see where the author takes these characters.
3152993069	I thought this was a bit of a hidden gem to be honest, I wasn't expecting it to be so enjoyable, or to have so many moments where I was gritting my teeth. I am finding more and more with YA Plus fiction how very good it is, and how there are some wonderful stories that probably wouldn't fit well in adult fiction. My goal this year is to read more YA Plus because so far everything I have read has got high marks. *POSSIBLE SPOILER* - this reminded me a lot of the film 'Ready or Not' which I saw at the end of last year. S.T.A.G.S felt like a teenage version.Greer MacDonald wins a scholarship to the prestigious St Aiden's school (S.T.A.G.S for short) which she is initially happy about, but as time goes by it really doesn't feel like she is fitting in at all, especially when she is constantly put down and teased by the most popular group of the school - the 'Medievals' who appear to be the epitome of English class with a massive dose of snobbiness thrown in.However, one day she is sent an anonymous invitation, inviting her to spend the weekend 'huntin', shootin' and fishin' at Longcross - the family home (although it's really more like a mansion) of the head of the 'Medievals' - Henry de Warlencourt.Greer cannot understand why she has been chosen, or why 2 other outsiders are also going.But all will become clear, and Greer is going to need to keep her wits about her, and her head on her shoulders!The minute I finished this, I was on Amazon checking if there was a sequel, and there is! So that will be added to my TBR very rapidly. I can't stop thinking about it!
2092177304	This book is what would happen if The Secret History and Jolly Foul Play had a baby. I went to school with a lot of posh people and I could never shake the suspicion that some of them were secretly evil. If you have ever worried about this too, this book is for you. Brilliant, chilling and very clever, a boarding school murder mystery that will have you on the edge of your seat. 14+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
2183004994	I thought I was really going to enjoy S.T.A.G.S. but I was just left very disappointed from beginning to end. First of all, the book starts off in past-tense from the main character, Greer's point of view. In the beginning, she mentions that a certain individual was killed and that she and a few others were the murderers, then she dives into the story from how she got to the school. Normally this type of thing works really well in mystery novels, where they reveal the killer in the beginning but then start the story and theres always some type of crazy plot twist. Yet this book didn't really have a plot twist, and I honestly think it revealed way too much at the beginning. It left me bored and not wanting to read the book, since I already knew what was going to happen.The main character Greer, was alright in the beginning, but eventually I just ended up not liking her at all. She talks about how she's different, and she wants to be herself rather than worshiping the medievals and being just like them, but throughout her trip she slowly starts becoming more and more like them, obviously not the rich part, but the snobby, I think I'm better than everyone, evil kind of way. It honestly felt like her character development was going backwards, rather than forwards.The romance in this book was absolutely horrible! In the beginning of the book, Greer mentions how much she dislikes Henry and the other medievals, but of course she ends up falling for him and his tricks the first moment he shows her any type of affection. Greer was described as a smart girl in this book, but man was she dumb for falling for this guy. Then of course she is so blinded by her love for Henry after he calls her beautiful once, that she can't even see that there is someone who actually likes her for real, until he says it out loud. Even then, it was kind of like where the heck did this come from? It was just not written very well.The writing was alright, but wasn't the best either. If the book didn't do the "mystery" aspect of revealing that someone dies in the end, the action would have been really good. But of course since it was spoiled, it wasn't the best. The world-building was good, there were lots of good descriptions of the school and the mansion and all the land it contained. The reason why I'm giving this book two stars instead of one, is because of the ending. I found it absolutely hilarious, even though it wasn't meant to be funny at all. So in the end, Greer realized the mistake she made in trusting someone, who ended up being the "most evil" person in the book. I think this was supposed to be a "plot twist" but you could see it from a mile away!! In this moment, Greer was actually shook when she realized what was really going on, and I thought her stupidity was the funniest thing ever. For an elite school for super smart kids, you'd think they'd figure this stuff out.Overall, I would not call this book a thriller or mystery at all. Although it was definitely not the book for me, if you've read previous books that sound like this and want to give them a try, then I'd say go for it, but if you find yourself bored in the beginning like I was, just give up. Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for providing a copy of this book, in exchange for an honest review.
2284524608	Me when I saw this book was marketed as a "psychological survival adventure" that will "shock readers": Me after reading this "psychological adventure," which was in fact, not shocking at all:I don't know. Maybe one day I'll actually find a book that is "shocking," but currently, Little Monsters and We Were Liars are the only two books to hold that honor. It's just unfortunate that to get to those gems, I seem to have to read through an excessive amount of boring books. This genre only holds books that are damn amazing, or absolutely terrible and predictable. Such a shame, honestly. I think the real reason I'm so pissed and let down is because I had a schedule of books for this month, and I picked this up at Target and interrupted my reading schedule for this. Final feelings: Underwhelmed and just UGH.
2008860612	(I received a copy from Netgalley, In exchange for an honest review.)This wasn't awful, but I can't say it was one that I enjoyed. It just couldn't fully gain my interest unfortunately, so I spent a lot of the book feeling quite bored. I was pretty glad to see the end. Overall, Not awful, but not one for me.
2501129535	The plot of this story was completely far-fetched and it took a number of leaps of logic to follow what was going on and keep believing it, but the social commentary was spot on. The MC, a scholarship girl at an incredibly exclusive English public school, gets invited to one of her classmate's massive country estates for the weekend only to find that er classmate wasn't exactly extending the hand of friendship. This book deals with racism, classism, snobbery, old-boy networks and conspiracy theories. I think this book would work for anyone, but it will be particularly resonant if you're British.
4212163802	dnfokropne, główna bohaterka totalnie bez jakiegokolwiek mózgu, akcja masakryczna
2349930881	STAGS is a boarding school for the wealthy elite. Greer is admitted on a scholarship, whereas most other students at the school have had generations of attendees in their families. When Greer and two other new/outcast students are invited for a weekend of "Huntin'. Shootin'. Fishin'" with the Medievals (the elite clique of students at the school), she is warned against going by a former friend, but ultimately decides to go, seeing it as a chance to finally make friends and be accepted. What occurs instead is a weekend of veiled bullying and the thrill of the chase.I honestly feel that this is one of the better YA thrillers I have read lately. That being said, though, the book certainly has its flaws. However, regarding the genre, I thought M.A. Bennett did a terrific job of setting up a bit of background for the Medievals by showing them flaunting their personal family lineage back to the crusades in class and even around the dinner table. Their shady words alluding to hatred of outsiders was a first clue as to their true motives. However, their talk is so flowery and conversation so natural that who would really think that there was a threat present? Nel just wants to make friends, Greer wants conversation, and Shafeen wants to stand up for himself. The setting in a boarding school and then a large family estate on the moors of Northumberland was also perfect. Beautiful, yet ominous and eerie...much like the Medievals themselves. I could just imagine mists and fog and these elite teenagers showing off their knowledge of "huntin', shootin', and fishin'" to the outcasts who had never or who had hardly been exposed to that before. It truly was another world for the three outsiders, or "Savages" as they came to be called. The author's descriptions were just wonderful and added an extra dimension of creep factor.Despite the good in the book, I will admit that I never felt fully invested or connected in the main characters. I cared for them, yes, but I was preoccupied with the bigger picture in the book. Greer is a teenage narrator who really reads like a teenager. She is constantly referencing movies--which I didn't mind much, and it sort of made sense since her father makes films--and jumping around in her telling of the story ("But that was not nearly as bad as what was to happen next," etc.). I could do without that. I felt that some of the descriptions were too drawn out and the action too underplayed. I wanted a bit more out of those. And of course, the ending. I like the concept and how the book wrapped up. Certain aspects I saw coming, while others were a nice touch. If ever there was a book that should be a movie, its this one. I can absolutely see this as a screenplay and I would definitely go see it.
2439144566	Me gustó a medias; el misterio sobre lo que sucede se resuelve en las últimas 100 páginas y de manera precipitada. El hilo narrativo se desarrolla mediante las distintas situaciones que viven los personajes; son demasiadas largas con muchas vueltas que no conducen a nada o aportan pocos indicios (algunos obvios). La cuestión de los guiños a películas interfiere con las premisas que uno pueda llegar a descubrir. Los personajes son chatos, estereotipados y sin profundidad, no hay mucha identificación. En mi opinión el thriller se queda a medio camino sin profundidad, es la primera novela de la autora capaz le daré otra oportunidad con la "isla"➡️ Reseña: https://goo.gl/cxP1sz
2288235028	4.5/5La caza es un thriller juvenil que te atrapa desde al primera página, contado por una protagonista muy fresca e irónica que hace que la narración sea muy ágil y divertida.Cuenta una historia un tanto oscura y misteriosa con un final totalmente impactante que hace de este libro una lectura muy recomendable.
3323417522	This was a really fun and engaging YA mystery/thriller.I listened to the audiobook of this, which was kindly provided to me by the publishers for a Listenalong. I'm so glad they did, because I think the audiobook really made this book for me. I absolutely loved the narrator. I really enjoyed the setting of this book. I don't normally enjoy books set in boarding schools but I did quite enjoy this one. I also loved the element of the dark game and the fact it was divided into three parts. It made the book easy to follow and I love a good structure in a book.The characters were kind of annoying at times and there was some typical YA tropes but I didn't mind it too much. Its definitely more of a fun cheesy mystery than a proper suspenseful thriller There were a couple incidents of racism, sexism etc which were uncomfortable to read but were often called out, so given the setting of the book and the types of characters, it made the book more realistic.Overall, I thought this was a really fun book. Absolutely recommend the audiobook. Definitely going to listen to the second book in the series now TW: racism, violence, animal cruelty and murder
3614568371	3.5 stars
2002725710	It was a bit like that bit in Beauty and the Beast when the Beast dances with Belle. Except there was no Belle. And no music. And no candlelight. Just a beast.* * *3 / 5I don't often read books of the thriller variety, but this one was a special treat for me, mostly because there wasn't that much actual thriller. It's got all the staples of a classic YA boarding school story: rich kids, fancy buildings, pretentious British house names, privilege, power, and bullying, and adds a little hint of thriller. S.T.A.G.S was easy to read and had a couple of likeable, realistic main characters.Maybe I accepted it because I was lonely. Or maybe, if I'm being honest, I accepted it because it came form the best-looking boy in the schoolFirst, we have Greer. She's a bit of an archetype initially: poor girl who gets scholarship to one of the most prestigious schools in England, doesn't really fit in with all the rich kids and is excluded. Bennett gives Greer a splash of individual character by making her a complete film nut and she often describes scenes in terms of famous films, which is pretty cool and unique. Greer, social recluse (not by choice), is thrilled to receive an invitation to spend a holiday "huntin' shootin' fishin'" at the manor of Henry de Warlencourt alongside the rest of the Medievals, the elite group of six Sixth-form students. Joining Greer is Shafeen, tall, handsome and from Rajasthan in India, teased despite his moneyed background and branded with the moniker "Punjabi Playboy" despite being neither Punjabi nor a playboy. He's my favourite character of the book: kind, chivalrous without being sexist, rich whilst being aware of what is has done for his life, sensible and headstrong. The third individual to receive The Invitation is "Carphone Chanel", also new to STAGS, whose only mistake is to have the "wrong kind" of money, living the Gatsby lifestyle. It wasn't just the stockings that marked them out; it was a particular kind of confidence they had about them. They lolled about like expensive catsWhen the three outcasts accept Henry's invitation to a weekend of blood sports, they aren't quite sure what they're getting in for. The first fifth of the book is set in the school, building up to the trip, and it's a solid start. Bennett definitely knows how to write; Greer's voice was very engaging and Bennett clearly did their research as regards hunting. Shafeen, Chanel, and Greer all accept The Invitation for different reasons but as the trip goes on and the stakes get higher, they begin to think that there is something very wrong about Longcross Estate. That perhaps this hunt is not quite what they thought. This book doesn't rate higher for me because of a couple of details. First of all, Greer spends a lot of time waxing lyrical about how beautiful Henry is, about how charming and delightful his lifestyle is. Now, I don't blame her for buying into the illusion, to be seduced by the allure of the rich, but I don't need to hear about how much she likes his face every three paragraphs. This normally happens when the action and suspense of the book lulls; there are parts that I thought could have been cut in order to preserve the quick pace and emotional engagement of the book, like Greer's chats with her maid or her traipsing round map rooms. There also needed to be more to differentiate the other five members of the Medievals: all I could recall about them was that the two guys drank too much and the three women were beautiful but intelligent. That's it. I might have been academically smart, but I was monumentally stupid not to realise sooner what was going on. It's not as if I wasn't warned.I did think the suspense aspect of STAGS was done really well. Like I said, I'm not a massive thriller fan, but I thought this book hit the right note for me. There's that vague, ominous sense that something isn't quite right conveyed throughout the book, though you aren't quite sure what it is. What was quite surprising was the introduction of quite an important plot point at about 85% the way through the book; this aspect felt rushed and a bit predictable. It did result in quite an impactful ending, however.Overall, I found S.T.A.G.S to be a quick, easy read that tries to instigate a bit of thought about class, morality, wealth, and the role of technology in our lives, but is mostly just a fun thriller. My thanks to Netgalley, the publisher, and the author for an ARC of this book.Read this review and more on my blog: https://atlasrisingbooks.wordpress.co...
2088833439	** spoiler alert ** Rating: 3.5*This was a hard one to rate. I really enjoyed the narration and I liked the storyline but there were a few things that brought the rating down. Positives:The setting- I really enjoyed he settings of this book, bot the school and the big house. The descriptions of both were really vivid and brought pictures of grandeur to mind. Also, the whole thing gave it a real Agatha Christie murder mystery vibe which I loved. The motive- I just really enjoyed the idea that there is a whole sect of people in a developed country that would turn their back entirely on technology and see it as a route of all evil. They brought up some valid points and the debates over the subject were really thought provoking. The conclusion- By the conclusion I’m actually referring to the scene at the top of the waterfall (more on this below). I enjoyed the showdown, it was very dramatic and him being undone by the things he hated most (‘Savages’ and technology) was pretty perfect. The movie references- soooo many and although I didn’t get them all I still enjoyed it. I also like the David Attenborough name drop. Greer- awful name but I enjoyed her being a proper Northern Lass. She was bright, warm and funny. She was not perfect (see below) but that made her more human. The Medievals- They really were a scary little cult and I could feel how dangerous they were. They were menacing and had a real aura of predator, like a pride of Lions. But it was more than that. It was the way they had been building to this for months, weakening their prey over time, studying their behaviour and weaknesses so that they could exploit them all the better once the hunt began. Negatives:Greer’s various ‘bad feminist ’ thoughts- Greer had this thoughts a few times throughout the book and it really started to annoy me. If she thought of one of the boys as handsome or felt all butterfly belly around them, she told herself she was a bad feminist. When she wished someone would sweep her off her feet and carry her down a hill to the car, she was a bad feminist. When she didn’t immediately believe a girl who said she’d been hunted, she was a bad feminist. NEWS FLASH- you are allowed to get a bit giddy over a boy, it doesn’t make you a bad feminist. You are allowed to want to be swept off your feet and men can want that too. You are allowed to not believe something that sounds crazy and not be angry at yourself just because a fellow woman said it.Feminism is not about all this stuff. It is about equal rights for men and women: in the workplace, in the street, in the home, in the law. It’s about everyone being allowed to giddy over someone they find attractive or wanting to be swept of their feet. As long as you don’t disbelieve someones claims purely because they are female then it has NOTHING TO DO WITH FEMINISM. It just annoyed me because people reading this book who might only now be getting to the age of being aware of what feminism is will think it’s about shit like hating men or siding with women always and it’s not. It’s about striving for a world were the gender pay gap is a thing of the past, women don’t get assulted in the street and old white men don’t inforce a tapon tax. Rant over. The ending- This book should have ended about three chapters before it did. I had already guessed everything that was put forward in those chapters and it was a bummer that after everything they didn’t technically win. Although I did like the fact that the order seeped futher than they thought, I wanted justice and I didn’t really get it. The foreshadowing- it wasn’t foreshadowing. She just basically told us how it would end and it killed a lot of the suspence for me. Overall I did enjoy this audiobook but it didn’t quite hit all the notes I wanted it to and fell a little short for me.
2922599805	Ein Jagdwochenende, drei Außenseiter und ein Kampf ums Überleben, da hatte ich schon eine bestimmte Vorstellung im Kopf wie das ablaufen könnte, wurde aber einerseits doch ganz schön enttäuscht.Während Greer im lockeren Stil ihrer Jugendsprache erzählt und über die Schule, St. Aiden, berichtet, wo sie neu ist und auf der vehement die alten Traditionen gewahrt werden, merkt man zwar, dass etwas ungutes im Gange ist, was sich für mein Empfinden aber viel zu lange hinzog.Die Beschreibung war witzig und hat erstmal gar nicht so langgezogen gewirkt, aber als die Jugendlichen dann endlich auf dem Landsitz Langcross zur Jagd angekommen sind, ging es fast genauso zäh weiter. Und wie gesagt, völlig anders als gedacht und auch viel zu unspektakulär. Warum der Verlag das Buch ab einem Alter von 12 Jahren empfiehlt weiß ich jetzt auch nicht, die Protagonisten sind alle zwischen 16 und 18 und auch die Themen und wie es umgesetzt wurde, sind für 12jährige nicht so wirklich interessant - zum Teil.Dafür ist der Schreibstil wie gesagt sehr flüssig und witzig erzählt, man hat oft das Gefühl, dass das alles nur so aus Greer heraussprudelt und sie diese Geschichte endlich mitteilen möchte - sie wirkte auf mich jedenfalls authentisch und sympathisch. Manchmal allerdings glaubt sie recht schnell Dinge, einfach weil sie sie glauben will und ist da schon ein Stück weit naiv, aber das war nicht so schlimm wie oft in anderen Jugendbüchern.Besonders gefallen hat mir, dass sie immer wieder Vergleiche zu Filmen gezogen hat mit den Situationen, in denen sie gerade steckt. Vor allem da man die meisten auch kennt (zumindest als Erwachsener, 12jährige wohl eher weniger)Was mir aber gefallen hat war der Hintergrund der St. Aiden Schule, die sehr antiquiert ist und die viele neue Technologien ablehnt. Internet, Fernsehen, Social Media, das alles wird fast schon verteufelt und die Gegenüberstellung von Bewahren alter Traditionen und dem Akzeptieren des Fortschritts hat hier immer wieder interessante Fragen aufgeworfen. Grade im Bezug auf die Kinder und Jugendlichen, die heutzutage täglich stundenlang vor dem Fernseher, der Konsole, am Tablet sitzen und kaum noch etwas in der realen Welt erleben. Vielleicht ist deshalb auch die Altersangabe ab 12 Jahren gewählt.Interessant fand ich auch die Erwähnung der Ludditen. Davon hatte ich bisher noch nie gehört - zumindest nicht von der Bezeichnung, aber dass das vielfältige Einsetzen von Maschinen Arbeitern ihre Existenzgrundlage zerstört, ist wohl jedem bewusst. Mehr dazu kann man - wenns interessiert - auch auf Wikipedia finden.Letztendlich kann ich sagen, dass mir die Handlung und der Spannungsaufbau nicht wirklich gefallen haben, die Themen jedoch definitiv interessant finde. Was ich auch ständig beim Lesen überlegt habe, wie sich Vegetarier beim Lesen fühlen, denn es gibt wirklich viel um die Jagd, wie sie abläuft, bei Hirschen, Fasenen und auch Fischen. An Details wird hier nicht gespart und auch nicht an ausgestopften Tieren und Geweih-Trophäen. Wer die Themen interessant findet und einen kleinen Einblick möchte, könnte Gefallen an der Geschichte finden, sollte aber nicht zu viel erwarten.Der zweite Band, im Original "D.O.G.S.", ist bisher noch nicht auf deutsch erschienen. Weltenwanderer
2306103505	A gorgeous country side manor, a bunch of posh twats and a weekend full off blood sports. Recipe for a disaster, or a delicious thriller? Well, how about both?Movie geek Greer is the new girl at St. Aidan’s boarding school, and as a scholarship student, she’s not up enough to the standards of the toffs attending the establishment to actually make friends with her. Not being an aristocratic offspring is not the only reason for these kids to look down upon someone, you see. There’s such thing as good money and bad money, apparently. Nell, another student, is well off, but she didn’t born into money, so should be shunned as well.To their amazement, the two girls somehow manage to end up on the limited guest list for a weekend getaway, organized by the Medievals, this elite group of six students, lead by the enigmatic Henry de Warlencourt (a.k.a. the most gorgeous boy ever), who seemingly rule the school. The third guest is Shafeen, who is considered royalty in his native India, and a foreigner to be looked down upon at St. Aidan’s. Charming kids, eh?I was totally engrossed in this one. S.T.A.G.S. had everything I personally look for in a thriller. The sense of something sinister constantly lurking just around the corner, unsmiling and cold servants who may or may not be up to no good and a group of teenagers armed to the teeth.I loved Greer too. She reminded me a lot of myself when I was 17.Greer is a smart girl though, so with the help of her new friends they set out to get to the bottom of the odd things that seem to happen to them over the weekend. Why is the head keeper lurking after them in the dark? How is Shafeen’s dad connected to the Warlencourts? Are they in danger or is it just their imagination running wild?A twisted and eerie story, heavily infused with ominous atmosphere, S.T.A.G.S. will appeal to readers who enjoy dark thrillers that play tricks with their mind.P.S. The story was quite detailed on the huntin’, shootin’ and fishin’ aspects, so if you don’t like reading about how animals get killed and then subsequently prepared for dinner, you might want to skip this. I now possess way more knowledge about venison than I ever hoped for.
2269844584	***ARC received in exchange for an honest review***This is one weekend I do not want to be apart of!!! In M. A. Bennett's debut novel, S. T. A. G. S., she gives it her all and comes out on top. In this mystery/thriller, young adult novel you want to cover your eyes but still peak through your fingers to keep reading. Don't let the young adult genre fool you, this book is so well done, that no matter what age you are if you enjoy thrillers, you will enjoy this book. Right from the start you are informed that there has been a murder but you are left in the dark until much later and then you are gripping your reading material so hard you just can't believe what you are reading. As stated in the author's summary "huntin' shootin' fishin' is the invitatation that Greer receives. And huntin, shootin fishin, is what you get BUT not what you think it is. Greer, is still trying to settle in at her new boarding school. But just when she is about to give up on making new friends and fitting in she receives an invitation for a weekend at the manor of the most popular kid in school, Henry de Warlencourt. She arrives, along with two others, at the manor to find things are not what they appear to be. Once Greer discover the truth, it becomes a game of so much more. I cannot tell you more due to spoilers. There is just so much!!!! What drew me in is all the little details that Ms. Bennett includes throughout this novel. All the history that is incorporated. The connections of the past to the present. Generations of families. How she incorporates Greer's father's job into helping Greer discover what she does, and how her connection with her father continues throughout her life. At the same time, I felt it went into too much detail in places and I wanted the story to hurry up. The ending ends in such a way that even though there is an epilogue, you are left wondering if there is going to be more!4 Huntin' Shootin' Fishin' stars
2061990905	This book has one of the BEST opening lines I’ve ever had the pleasure of reading. It sucked me right into the story and I couldn’t put the book down for want of needing to know what happened. I loved the dynamics of power in this book: how the beautiful, rich, popular students literally held all the power in their hands and how the less fortunate, less beautiful and lower class students were quite literally at their mercy. This book is way darker than I expected it to be but I loved it – it really was a thrill! The idea of the hunting felt oh so British and I loved that dynamic too. I also loved the way that technology and social media were looked down upon by the Medievals and how that then influenced the other students to also not buy into new technologies etc. Such an interesting power dynamic throughout this book. There are twists right up until the end and I left the end of this book feeling quite worried and horrified by what may happen next!
2111089240	I just want to shout about how much I enjoyed this book. I wish this had been a book I could’ve read when I was just getting into the psychological thriller genre, it’s an excellent young adult thriller. It touches on teenage emotions and definitely resonates with a young persons reality, while still using all the important and great parts of an older thriller novel. I loved the mention of films throughout the book, it helped me understand the plot and individual scenes even more. I was worried when I was close to the ending about how neatly it was being wrapped up, I’m definitely not a fan of that, but there was a final twist at the ending that left me very satisfied and ultimately is what resulted in a 5 star rating rather than a 4. I’m genuinely pleased with this book, would definitely recommend it to anyone who wants a thriller that isn’t too intense.
2147334122	Jaha, ik had ook niet verwacht dat ik deze nog 5 sterren zou geven! Het begon nochtans niet geweldig, met te veel 'tell' en te weinig 'show' en over het algemeen had ik het me ook bloederiger voorgesteld dus ik had een beetje verkeerde verwachtingen (de cover is héél erg horror, ik vind dat natuurkleuren en een gouden gewei beter gepast zouden hebben). Maar soit, de onderhuidse spanning maakte dat allemaal meer dan goed! Interessante setting en personages die goed uit de verf komen. Deed me qua stijl en sfeer en aanpak ook een beetje denken aan 'The Fixer'. Het einde maakte het helemaal af voor mij. Voorspelbaar? Misschien. Maar daarom niet minder sappig. Conclusie: onverwacht leuk! Dank aan Meis & Maas voor het recensie-exemplaar. ^^
2251162139	2.5- 3 stars..."Every year, six Medievals, leave and a new pack is forged..." This book centers around traditions, an ever-changing world, and (well, obviously) murder. While there are a handful of makes-you-think moments, too many details were provided in advance and I never really felt thrilled. However, it's a quick read and perfect for those that love the secret society/boarding school themes. Full RTC.
2317788082	It took me about a third of the book to get into the story, but once I did, I found it to be quite a good thriller and a clever commentary on current events. It’s best read on a rainy night, which is what I did. Be prepared for some strange nightmares! I wish I could say more but anything other than what’s already in the blurb would be a spoiler.Caution: Animal Deaths
4092571159	Oki… po pierwsze podobało mi się! duży plus za historie i że nie była ona randomowa. miała ona swoje „dobre”😂 podłoże i na tym się opierała.Akacja się toczyła jak przy dobrym horrorze i dało się czuć te nutkę niepokoju. Nie nazwę tego „lekkim horrorem” ale jest to napewno super młodzieżówka z dobrą intrygą i tajemnicą. Można po niej spokojnie pójść spać 😅Była też przewidywalna, 9/10 rzeczy udało mi się przewidzieć, ale podejrzewam, że to przez wszystkie książki grozy i thrillery jakie pojawiły się w moim życiu 😂Daje 4⭐️ bo dobrze się to czytało, była to bardzo filmowa książka, historia. Podobało mi się jak narratorka zburzyła 4 ścianę (wręcz jak Deadpool😅, tak teraz będę szukała porównań do filmów wszędzie)Od razu idę do drugiej części bo jestem ciekawa jak się potoczy
2087181487	Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsThe Medievals are just six students from a prestigious boarding school at first glance. Yes, they're all extremely wealthy and good looking and you can trace their families back as old as the ancient school they rule but they're just normal teenagers, right? No, they definitely are not. The Medievals are always the utmost elite group with more power in the school than the friars (teachers) and the Abbot (principal). Their family bloodlines run deep and their roots are tangled into knots with this school full of tradition so old that a building built in 1550 seems modern in comparison to the rest. They take an extreme pride in their lineage and tradition to the point where they talk like they're from another time, shun all electronics and hold weekends away for huntin', shootin' and fishin' and always with invitations for three outsiders from the school. Greer MacDonald is the scholarship student outsider from the moment she arrives at STAGS and shunned because she's nothing like the Medievals in a sea of people trying to imitate them. She pretends to be aloof to the allure of the mysterious group but she's just like everyone else when the invitation comes from the Medievals for the infamous weekend away hosted at the home of their leader, Henry de Warlencourt. Even after an odd warning to stay away from Longcross Hall and the Medievals she can't resist the feeling of being included and wanted from their elusive group. Her roommate that has been ignoring her up until the invitation arrived is suddenly envious of her and if she succeeds at impressing them over the weekend she could be a future Medieval. From the first page, Greer explains to the reader that she's a murderer and someone dies in this book. Technically it was manslaughter and it wasn't just her but several people who caused a death they didn't actually intend to have anything to do with. You soon find out who they had a hand in killing but you won't see it unfold until later in the book so you're left guessing and wondering when and how the whole time! I love books like that because you're assured that there will be this big event sometime in the course of the book so you have something to drive you to keep your eyes glued to the page. This book went even better than that though because there were so many crazy, dangerous parts all throughout that kept my breath catching and my heart jumping.The author captures suspense and tension spectacularly with so many high pressured situations that it was like I was watching a dainty teacup spin around and around on the very edge of a table almost slipping off each time. I loved the experience of reading S.T.A.G.S because as you're reading this book there's a constant foreboding feeling that nothing is normal or as it seems and that something deadly could be happening before you've even begun to suspect the next big shock. It's told in retrospect as Greer takes us through the events and marvels at her innocence and blindness to what was really going on but she doesn't lay it all out for you. You'll still have to read along to find out what Greer got herself into and knowing there's something huge to be discovered in this book makes you unable to put it down until you finish it. I enjoyed this book so much and I'm really glad to find such a thrilling and suspenseful book that is also YA!
2285586537	**You can see this full review and more at Book Briefs: https://bookbriefs.net**S.T.A.G.S. is a young adult mystery thriller by author M.A. Bennett. In case you didn't know, S.T.A.G.S. stands for St. Aidan the Great School, is a book that is touted to be awesome for fans of The Secret History and Pretty Little Liars. I am a big fan of both of those books, so that coupled with the boarding school setting, I was pretty pumped for S.T.A.G.S. And S.T.A.G.S. delivered on what it promised, a twisty thriller. And though S.T.A.G.S. is set at a boarding school, a bulk of the novel took place at a country manor where this "hunting" weekend is set to take place.I loved the premise of S.T.A.G.S. I think that was my favorite aspect of the story. And the writing and storyline were both excellent. They kept my attention the entire time and I loved the eerie feeling of the story. But the characters didn't always live up to the plot in my opinion. I liked Greer well enough, but I didn't completely love her. And I not entirely sure why. There wasn't anything I could pinpoint that I really disliked. I was just way more invested in the storyline than I was the characters.But the storyline was pretty great. I loved the way the story is presented. Pretty early on we learn about a murder and we also know the murderer, which is totally unique. (It kind of reminded me of episodes of the tv show Monk, where we watch the murder take place, and then we spend the rest of the episode finding out the how and the why.) We didn't know the why, which had me totally intrigued. And I have to say, I really really enjoyed watching this story unfold. MA Bennett did a really great job making it very interesting. It does seem reminiscent of The Secret History by Donna Tart. Overall, Plot driven readers will likely enjoy this suspense thriller. The setting was great and the writing was excellent. There were many areas of the plot and mystery game that I absolutely loved, but I don't want to get into specifics because they are every much a part of the plot that gets revealed as Greer and her friend pulls back some layers and dive into the mystery. It is worth discovering for yourself. I liked the characters well enough, but I wasn't completely won over by them all. Fans of this book will be excited to find out that it is going to be made into a movie. I am really excited for this news because I think it will translate really well to the big screen. This review was originally posted on Book Briefs
2129834263	Toen ik het plot van S.T.A.G.S las, kon ik niet anders dan naar The Book Depository surfen en op de bestelknop rámmen. Wat leek me dit een heerlijk verhaal!We volgen Greer MacDonald, een meid die door een beurs op St. Aiden the Great School terecht komt, kortgenoemd STAGS. Het is de oudste school van Engeland en staat bekend om de primitieve, maar goede opleiding. Op STAGS is er een elite-clubje, de Medievals. Iedereen kijkt naar ze op, volgt hun manier van doen en laten en hierdoor heerst en een wat middeleeuwse sfeer op de school. Geen telefoons en internet, maar brieven schrijven en boeken lezen. Greer wordt niet echt geaccepteerd op de school en hoort al helemaal niet bij de Medievals, dus ze doet gewoon haar ding. Tot ze op een dag een uitnodiging ontvangt om een weekend vol "Huntin', Shootin', Fishin' " te mogen bijwonen op Longcross Hall, het landgoed van één van de Medievals. Al blijken de Medievals hele andere opvattingen te hebben over deze bezigheden...Het idee van het boek is zo ontzettend leuk en ik baal dan ook als een stekker dat het boek me tegenviel! Greer vertelt in STAGS wat zij heeft meegemaakt en enerzijds is de POV vanuit Greer goed gedaan, anderzijds blijft de rest hierdoor vrij oppervlakkig en hierdoor komt de spanning niet tot haar recht. De personages lijken zo uit "het boekje" te zijn overgenomen, waardoor ze standaard zijn en er totaal geen sympathie voor ze groeit. Je hebt "de oogverblindende schoonheid", "de schurk", "de hunk", "het kneusje" en ga zo maar door. Het verhaal is gemakkelijk te volgen, maar helaas ook een flink tikkeltje voorspelbaar. Het begon ontzettend sterk met de eerste zin, maar zakte vervolgens vlot terug in een verhaal dat langzaam vertelt wordt. Het idee om van de jagers, schutters en vissers slachtoffers te maken is ontzettend origineel en juist daardoor is het zo jammer dat de grote lijn zo standaard verliep.Jammer, had er echt veel meer van verwacht. STAGS krijgt van mij 2*. Maarrrr er schijnt ook een serie van te zijn. Dan ga ik die maar eens bekijken :D!
2089734868	Woah ok so I just finished this book and ??? What a ride?? I've been in a bit of a slump unfortunately, but I knew from the moment I picked this book up in the store that I would fall in love, which I did. I really liked Greer as a MC, she was funny and interesting, and her constant film references were amusing and a good distraction from the darker plot. I absolutely fell in love with Shafeen. What a guy. And Nel too! What lovely characters. Then there was Henry. You sort of knew from the start what he was going to do and what would happen to him, but it was entertaining enough that I wanted to continue reading. I'm not sure if you were supposed to have guessed all of it, but it didn't affect my overall enjoyment. Something I would perhaps change (though I am giving a 5 star review) would be the personalities of the other medievals? It seemed just a little lazy to make them all blend into each other so the sirens became hard to tell apart and Cookson and Piers were practically the same person. That's like my only complaint though! My favourite thing was the ending. What the frick happened there?! I don't want to spoil anything but if you've read it... You know. I wasn't really in the mood for a long drawn out epilogue but stuff went down on the last two pages!!All in all I really enjoyed this book, I couldn't put it down :)
2199777926	pooled ink Reviews: 4.5 StarsThis story is a contemporary twist on Richard Connell’s famous short story “The Most Dangerous Game” set with English private school teens and a twisted ending that will having you tearing your hair out, flopping your mouth like a gasping fish, and wincing as a wrench of both frustration and admiration twist your gut.Bennett, I have a few strong words for you. And I’d also like to applaud because holy cannoli! Yeah, if you even remotely enjoy reading thrillers then you’ve got to get your hands on a copy of S.T.A.G.S.I can’t write too much about the story because I honest to goodness don’t want to spoil a single thing for you.Fantastic. That’s all I have to say really. This book was fantastic.A thriller that will freeze the blood in your veins against a fiercely pounding heart, S.T.A.G.S. whets your appetite before filleting your mind against its cleverly spun trap of prose and guts you with the twist of its conclusion. This is a story that will stick with you for time to come.Read my FULL review here: https://pooledink.com/2018/01/08/s-t-...
2108565386	aghh this was bad.like really cringy writing and unrealistic and underdeveloped characters bad.i should really stop reading everything with a boarding school in it.2/5⭐️ for the interesting concept and the aesthetically pleasing cover?
2244417785	Fun, but very, very stupid.
2152856430	3.5/5 sterren!Erg beschrijvend maar ook spannend en zelfs gruwelijk.Woensdag 25 okt lees je mijn recensie in de blogtour op Www.myperfectbooklife.blogspot.nl
3806803464	We have potentially found a 'worst book of 2022'. This hurts my heart.
2156519748	3.5/5 sterren. Leest lekker vlot, vrij spannend, bepaalde dingen waren wel erg voorspelbaar, maar dat einde... Mijn recensie verschijnt zondag op mijn blog!
2158957282	Definitely one of the big positives concerning this novel: the way it pulled me in! I was so intrigued, right from the start, because our main character immediately confesses she's to blame for a murder. If that doesn't grab your attention, I don't know what would! From there on, Greer tells us what happened that led to said murder. The thing is: Even though you know who got murdered, you still want to find out what exactly happened and that's what kept me going.Other than that, I love the division between Savages and Medievals. It's completely backwards to the world we know today, where the "bigger people" have all the technology and the "little people" are frowned upon for not keeping up with it. This is very broadly put, but you know what I mean! In S.T.A.G.S, the elite actually rejects technology in most ways and I thought it added so much to this story. Not to mention how it highlights the medieval setting and customs even more. I'm not a fan of historical fiction, but this.. This I really, really liked!In addition to that, Greer's upbringing as the daughter of a cameraman definitely added a unique vibe as well. Comparing situations, actions and small events to things she saw in movies, she keeps reminding us that the world we're in isn't set in the past, but in the present. It was a unique and intriguing way of reminding us of that little fact! Because, I admit, I sometimes forgot, haha.When you’re at STAGS, there’s only one thing worse than no money, and that’s the wrong kind of money.Downside of this novel, to me, was the perspective. The story's told in first person, by Greer who's looking back at what happened. You could say that's fine - and, in a way it was - but I felt weirdly detached from her character and that made it hard for me to actually lose myself in her character. It's obviously told after everything happened already and it showed. Maybe I would've liked it better if it had been told as it was happening? I don't know.One thing that did get on my nerves quite.. often.. is how Greet talks about liking this guy, that guy in a very spontaneous way. I actually got whiplash with all her mind-changing when it came to the "love" interests in play. This is, to me, one of those stories where the romantic aspect could've disappeared completely and I wouldn't have cared one bit. I might've even liked it better that way!And, lastly.. I read some reviews mentioning the end of this novel and going all "I didn't see that twist coming at all!". Honestly.. How did you not? I saw it coming a mile off and thought it way too predictable! Could've been me and having the right gut feeling for once, though.. But.. Yeah, it didn't really feel all that "wow" to me.I have to say this novel was quite refreshing in terms of setting and the whole idea behind the school politics, but.. it could've been better too. I enjoyed reading it, but I know.. with some changes.. I could've really loved it!3.5 / 5!
2118291086	After being enrolled into the elite boarding school known as STAGS on a scholarship, Greer MacDonald isn't expecting to being accepted by her schoolmates. Most of the other pupils come from privileged backgrounds and Greer just doesn't fit in. So when an envelope arrives under her dorm door inviting her to a weekend away with the Medievals, she jumps at the chance. The Medievals are the unofficial Prefects of the school, a group of 6 students who come from the richest and most prestigious families. The Medievals truly run the school and to be accepted by them, would elevate any pupil from regular to elite status. Arriving at Henry de Warlencourt's manor, Greer attempts to settle in for a weekend of huntin', shootin', fishin'. But it's clear this isn't her world. On the first night, she discovers that fellow outcasts Shafeen and Chanel have been invited and starts to relax slightly. But the next day, when the group go huntin', Chanel gets spooked and Greer finds her hiding away. Chanel claims that the Medievals and their hounds were hunting her. Greer initially doesn't believe her. But what if she's telling the truth? What if she's next??I've had this book on my physical bookshelf at home for far too long. I've wanted to read it for years but just never got round to picking it up. The concept of boarding school elite kids hunting other kids for sport was fascinating to me. Unfortunately, this book just didn't work for me. I don't quite know what was off about it, but I was bored for most of the book. That's never a good thing when reading a mystery thriller.Also, I hated the main character, Greer. For someone so smart, she really was so bloody stupid. For example, (view spoiler)[after Henry woos her after Chanel's incident, she really believes that he's going to dump his beautiful rich girlfriend and possibly marry Greer instead, despite the fact they come from very different backgrounds and they've never spoken to each other before this weekend, and even when all the evidence is in front of her that the Medievals want to harm the 'outcasts', she's still like but noooo, this guy is different, he gets me, he wouldn't harm anyone. Honestly! She was just annoying character. Oh, and she was one of those girls that's beautiful, but doesn't believe she's beautiful, so every character needs to tell her she's beautiful, but she's not, but she really is, she just can't see it. Yawn. (hide spoiler)]Such a disappointment :/
2984125741	And this is why I never make any progress on my to-read list. I've just finished S.T.A.G.S and it was so good, and ended on such a cliffhanger, that I immediately downloaded and started on the next book. D.O.G.S. I loved the main character Greer from the very first paragraph. She wants to fit in to her boarding school, but this is more like an evil Hogwarts, with no Dumbledore looking out for everyone, and no magic. Just guts, and friendship, a love of movies, and an understanding of grammar to help her navigate a savage weekend of huntin', shootin', fishin'.Although some characters wouldn’t agree, they would think it’s medieval. And in case you are wondering this book does not glorify blood sports in any way. The medievals rule the school and any outsider (like Greer) is considered savage. And fair game to have fun with. Yes it’s as evil and messed up as it sounds.The language in the book flows with a lovely chatty conversational tone and delicious foreshadowing which makes it impossible to stop reading. You just know something awful is about to kick off. And it does!If you like YA books, boarding school settings, secret societies and nail-biting suspense, don't miss out on this series.
4854559404	3.25/5Uważam, iż końcówka została świetnie rozegrana i mam nadzieję, że autorka wróci do tego w drugim tomie. Minusem było wieczne wspominanie o SAROSIE 7S. W pewnym momencie zaczęłam sądzić, że faktycznie jest to jakieś lokowanie produktu i postanowiłam to sprawdzić oaoaoakqkkqkqkqnqnwnqnaj
2199254632	4 starsScholarship student Greer MacDonald and her two friends, fellow outcasts, are invited to a weekend with the elites of their private school in England. Settling into sixth term has been hard, especially with the other privileged students, but this mysterious invitation might change everything for Greer and her friends.Or maybe not.At the ancient Longcross Hall, not everything is what it seems. Over the next three days, Greer and her friends participate in three bloodsports--huntin', shootin', and fishin'--but things get darker and more twisted as the weekend progresses. Greer learns that those being hunted are not just the wild game, but the outcasts that have been brought from school...This book is dark and delicious and twisted--although you might not expect it at first.In the beginning, I didn't really dig it that much. It seemed like your usual "girl gets accepted into elite group & lives happily ever after." But things get darker.Way darker.Greer is a good enough main character. I didn't care for her that much because she felt kind of bland, but I really enjoyed her voice and how she narrates. She's concise, but gives enough detail to the readers. There's a lovely use of parentheses that I found very enjoyable in this occasion. She includes details and chats with the reader as most of the story is an account of what has happened to Greer.I thought her narration and Bennett's writing was very good, even though Greer wasn't particularly interesting herself. She was good at narrating and I gladly accepted the fact.The side characters were a little more interesting than scholarship student Greer.Chanel comes from new money, her dad is a phone mogul, which is why she's also invited to the weekend. She, like Greer, initially wants to be accepted by the rich elite, dubbed the Medievals.Shafeen is a South Asian prince (although the princely part isn't very much emphasized) and is singled out for his brown skin. Yet unlike Greer and Chanel, he's much more aware of the darker goings at the large estate and has an inkling of what's truly going on.I liked both of them a little more than Greer because they were more interesting, but overall the characters were more there to tell the story than for you to become immensely connected with. This was the main reason my rating was dropped down a star.But the plot was the star of the show.I assumed this was either going to be like Genuine Fraud by E. Lockhart where it tells the story of a villain and that's that (because Greer talks to the reader at the beginning about how she's a murderer) or a boarding school story where she gets accepted as one of the elite and lives happily ever after.It was neither, and it's darker qualities is what made this a much better book than either of the ones mentioned.There's this huge undercover plot and conspiracy that just grows and snowballs and doesn't let you go even during the very last page where Bennett writes THE END? Oh god, I really hope there's a sequel because this novel's conspiracy was so captivating. Once I got into what was happening and the dark deeds going on, I was sucked right in.The pacing starts out a little slow, but it definitely speeds up during Greer's account of what happened at the estate. You get these hints along the way about what will happen, but piecing it all together was really fun for me.I know seasoned mystery readers will probably expect everything that's happening, but for me, this was such an exciting read.The dark conspiracy doesn't just stop at the students that are at the manor with Greer and her friends, nor does it stop at the school. It spreads far greater than that, which gave me such delightful chills.I didn't really like how much Greer the narrator emphasized her being a murderer because it wasn't really true (can't spoil!) and she was exaggerating, but I did think it worked well in hooking the reader.There's also some really great discussions which made this book so much better. The elite students talk about things like "weeding out the weak" and "keeping the population in check" and create all sorts of animalistic analogies that relate with the actions of humans. I found some really enjoyable parallels in this novel which made me so satisfied.Although this novel felt superficial at first, it grew to be much, much more. It was luscious, it was dark and conspiratorial, and it left me wanting more. I would definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a captivating, dark, boarding school read!Thank you to Delacorte Press and Netgalley for providing me with a digital review copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review!You can preorder S.T.A.G.S. now or find it at any major bookseller on January 30th!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
7570501969	3.5 🦌⋆⭒˚.⋆ 𝘩𝘶𝘯𝘵𝘪𝘯’ 𝘴𝘩𝘰𝘰𝘵𝘪𝘯’ 𝘧𝘪𝘴𝘩𝘪𝘯’I went into this completely blind, and surprisingly, i quite enjoyed it! STAGS is a great mix of horror and mystery. This genuinely made me have to close the book and stare at the wall. The twists were really well done! I have heard theres more books in the series and just know i’ll be demolishing those. My only complaints would be that the ending was not at all what I wanted. It felt rushed and honestly the whole technology analogy was a bit goof but other than that, I was completely immersed in the story!!
4220372584	2/5⭐
4266459913	** spoiler alert ** Solid YA book this. I have devoured this in 12 hours. Super easy reading, great non over complicated plot but at the same time well thought out and descriptive. Jumped up posh twats relating it to today and making me angry that they do go to posh schools and become twits like Boris Johnson.Honestly found the concept fun and dark, but completely believable. Could fully believe this is actually happening!Proper liked the main character Greer. Almost wanted her to be wrong about Henry at one point. But was happy with what happened. Roll on book 2.
2272395093	Originally posted at SmexyBooks-http://smexybooks.com/2018/01/review-...Grade: C-M.A. Bennett’s debut YA coming of age thriller is set against the background of a prestigious religious boarding school-St. Aiden the Great School aka S.T.A.G.S. Heavily character driven, the driving force of this story is Greer McDonald. Greer, a Manchester girl with a snarky attitude and a public school education, decides on a lark to apply at the very prestigious school rather them be forced to stay with an aunt while her father is away on an extended business trip. Surprisingly, she is accepted and begins her journey only to discover that there are those who don’t want her there and will do anything to get her to leave.S.T.A.G.S. is interesting enough to hold your attention without bringing much to the table. Think of Heathers meets Lord of the Flies meets Gossip Girl. A rather straightforward horror style plotline that offers little in anticipation as it’s fairly easy to figure out the intent from the beginning. Bennett pretty much kills the suspense with the first line of the book. A fair majority of the story’s appeal has to do with the heroine. Told exclusively from her own point of view, Greer’s inner monologue and sarcastic exchanges with those around her amuses the as the reader follows her on her adventure as she deals with classism, the dangers of an overly technological society, and her own prejudices.The premise behind S.T.A.G.S. is nothing new. The old war of the classes between the scholarship, minority, and the nouveau riche students (referred to as savages) whom the elites (referred to as Medievals) feel don’t belong at their posh private school and who are singled out and broken either in spirit or body. Or both. Centuries-old traditions inbred into the education of spoiled rich kids whose boredom with life creates a vacuum of sorts where each generation attempts to excel beyond those that came before them. The story starts out slow and unremarkable as Bennet sets the stage with an in-depth analysis of the school, its faculty and the students. Greer is a chatty girl who tends to go off on tangents when it comes to the mundane while staying remarkably reserved on what I deemed important. Bennett keeps the story flowing on an even keel while indiscriminately flashing us with bits of the outrageous and ridiculousness.“The servers, likely women from the village, are referred to as dinner bags.”An invite to a weekend of ‘huntin, fishin, and shootin’ from Greer’s crush (and tormentor) is where the real story begins. Like every 80s/90s horror movie, everyone must have shouted out DON’T GO when reading this scene. We know what is going to happen and Bennett makes sure we know as Greer channels a 19th century English Lit teacher and begins to describe her feelings and the trip. Plenty of purple prose and atmospheric descriptors paints a dramatic picture as she and her two fellow outcasts, Chanel and Shafeen, travel to Longcross Hall, home of the very wealthy de Warlencourt family.As the story progresses, the pace picks up considerably as does the acts of violence but none of the drama we were promised. Our villain offers Greer an explanation for his actions and while you can certainly understand pieces of it (I refer to the overabundance of technology that commands our lives) the main takeaway is that the rich do as they please because they can. The predictability of the motivations and subsequent results is disappointing. While Greer holds her own against the Medievals despite some of her more oh so teenage moments it’s not because Greer is exceptionally brilliant or crafty, but more because Bennett has written it this way. The ending leaves us with more questions than answers and the feeling there may be a sequel to come.
5668930009	Nine students. Three blood sports. One deadly weekend.Greer MacDonald is an ostracized scholarship student of the very prestigious S.T.A.G.S. private school. Very few people, if anyone will treat her kindly. But then one day she gets invited by the schools most popular and elite group of students for a weekend of huntin', shootin', and fishin'.From the beginning of the book, before you know anything, you know Greer is guilty of manslaughter. And with the premise of this book it wasn't much of a stretch for me to guess who the victim was at the end. However, the story was so much more than who died at the end and I kept reading.If you like stories of elite secret societies and cults, and if you like a YA thriller, this was a really good one. I loved it.Themes of racism, classism, and discourse over modern technology vs archaic communication and lifestyle.Content has hunting/animal gore, and thriller fear/suspense.
2141730213	I had an immense amount of fun with this book. It had just the right amount of thrill and suspense to keep you on your toes!I enjoyed Greer as a narrator and MC in this book. She was quirky and intuitive. She was also foolish and at one point I really want to knock her outside of the head. But she redeems herself! I absolutely loved that she brought up references to the films she and her dad loved to watch and how she inserts her personality and likes into the narration of the story. It really showed off her nerdy and quirky self and her grand ability to make connections and put two and two together!I also loved Shafeen! Although he is not in most parts of the story, he is still very much a present. And when he is there, he is there. Every word that came out of his mouth, priceless. Every move he made turned tables.The Medievals a.k.a the white, rich (psycho) kids who brought down their wrath on the previous characters mentioned. I wasn’t thinking of mentioning them because I really hated them, so let’s just say I enjoyed hating them very much.It was a very bloody book in that Huntin’ Shootin’ Fishin’ fostered danger, elevated the stakes and made the characters act in ways that were feral and wild. I really enjoyed the twist of the games and how they brought characters together and wreaked havoc too.Greer was retelling the story to us. It’s that kind of thriller, where the reader goes in and they are given this mini-introduction, so they have a foggy idea of how the book is going to end or where the direction of the story it headed. I especially loved it when Greer would add in her own little comments about what was happening and how she should have acted differently.What really struck me about this world though, was experiencing the consequences of the power and privilege bestowed upon these teenagers that were almost lethal. They controlled everything and everyone. They got away with everything they did. And it’s not a far fact from how it is in real life. How far money and power can take you. How much money rules the world and the extent to which it can bend the will of a person. Scary stuff.And the ending.....WOWJust one tiny problem:There were twists trust me and some of them I saw coming. This really stems from the very beginning of the book and how Greer introduces the problem. I already knew going in that deaths would be inevitable and I was kind of thinking that everyone was going to die. And while I don’t mean to sound sadistic, one person died and it was a little anti-climatic. You have an idea of who dies and why they die and who kills them. So I felt that the intro given by Greer gave too much and it took away from the reader.Overall, it was a great book. For a non-thrillerish gal I thoroughly enjoyed it very much. It was fun, fast, and quite a ride. It makes you think about the consequences of money and privilege and also the effect of living in a world where everything is on the internet.
2066408049	S.T.A.G.S (St Aiden the Great) is an elite educational establishment with a deep-rooted code of conduct. It’s where ‘old school’ rules and the practice of embracing traditional methods is the most acceptable way to conduct one’s self. The use of smart phones, kindles or even the internet itself is deemed to be ‘Savage’.Student role play, maybe? A teenage fad, perhaps? Nope. It’s a movement of young folk who have, quite plausibly, adopted the title of the ‘Medievals’. Anything that clashes with the strange ideology of the cultured few will keep you outside their circle, and that’s a very isolated place to be.What a relief then, to be among the 'Savages' who receive the highly-prized invitation to attend a 'Medieval’s' manorial estate for a spot of Huntin’, Fishin’ and a Shootin’. Oh my, if ever there was a weekend that should have health and safety crawling all over it was this one!The location provides the perfect terrain for a spot of macabre recreation. One thing newcomers learn during their stay is: never underestimate your game – its instinct is to survive, it merely depends on who is stronger – the hunter or the prey.I loved how the privileged hunting party operates in an aristocratic pack, yet successfully creates a distinctly primal atmosphere for their unsuspecting guests. Just how far this traumatic experience will affect them is for you to discover for yourself – all I know is “ Huntin’ Shootin’ Fishin’ ” is an invitation I’m unlikely to RSVP any time soon!S.T.A.G.S heralds a terrific story line with a cracking pace and shows that moral rivalry is alive and kicking. One unfortunate irritation did arise from the over-indulgence of movie references, which began to resemble a compilation of nominees for best film/theatre production. I’m all for one or two of these casually thrown in for a nostalgia boost, but the overkill (excuse the pun) influenced what could have been a 5/5 rating from me.Despite the fact that vulnerable creatures are targeted for sport, S.T.A.G.S is an exceptionally good read. The warped logic used to justify certain unethical behaviour was repulsive yet riveting, and I especially enjoyed the devious taunt from the conclusion – to be, or not to be, continued. Now that IS the question…(I received a copy of this title from the publisher via their Reader’s First website and it’s my pleasure to provide this unbiased review.)
2384257816	“La caza” me lo ha regalado mi hermano en el mes de Marzo por mi cumpleaños. Cabe aclarar que él no es un lector 24/7, y me ha confesado que lo eligió un poco por la portada y otro poco por la sinopsis. Por aquel mes cuando fui a buscarlo en GR, no aparecía en español y solo estaba en inglés; así que dije: me llama la atención, tiene pinta. Vamos a leerlo. Muy bien gente, lo primero que voy a decir que me gustó mucho la forma de escribir de Bennett, es muy fluida. Me he reído bastante con Greer. Las referencias a películas a lo largo de la historia, junto a que Greer te habla a vos, fue su toque personal. Si bien la historia me atrapó, y he llegado a leerme más de 100 hojas de un tirón; en un momento sentí que me prometía mucho y luego me termine desilusionando un poco. Sentí que el libro empezó muy arriba, se mantuvo... pero llegando a las últimas 100 páginas decayó un poco, pero luego remonto, (no mucho pero si lo suficiente). Hasta que llegó el final y tuvo su giro. Voy a aceptarlo: me creí el versito tanto como Greer.(aunque me pinta que es porque soy tan ilusa como ella jajajaaj). El romance es algo secundario claramente. Obvio que nuestra protagonista es una adolescente y se deja llevar un poco por eso, pero en mi opinión esta muy bien llevado. Claramente no es lo principal de la historia aunque si un elemento más que influye en ella. Y el amor que surge entre ellos dos, me pareció totalmente creíble y nada forzado.En síntesis gente, el libro es entretenido y divertido. Tiene sus giros y sus cosas que hacen que uno se enganche. La protagonista esta genial y hasta te hace reír. No es el super thriller pero gusta y mucho. Recomendado para cortar con alguna lectura pesadita.
2054489382	This book was touted like part Looking for Alaska & part Hunger Games or Battle Royale. And when the book starts with the phrase "I think I might be a murderer" you expect a thrilling ride. It was actually spoiled kids playing at a weekend of Downtown Abbey (without the charm of the series) where the hunt is supposed to turn into something more sinister, but does not really rise to the occasion.The protagonist Greer (who is a movie obsessed likeable character with a sardonic wit) gets a scholarship to the titular exclusive boarding school, complete with "Mean Girls" type group called the Medievals. She is mostly ignored due to her no money status, until she receives the quite coveted Invitation to the yearly Medievals' weekend of blood sports.The premise was actually a compelling idea, and trying to understand the dynamics of this unique school at the beginning was interesting. But then until more than half the book nothing really happens & the narrative was very uneven. There were parts where it started to get engaging & you thought "okay here we go" and then it would suddenly get so slow I could feel my eyes glaze over.But the book aggravates you so much you even start to be annoyed by Greer, especially with her desperate wanting to fit in & liking the "villain" even with all his despicable behavior. The cute movie referencing becomes excessive movie name-dropping to such a point that they don't make sense anymore.There was a great idea for the "truth" of the school at the end of the book, which if presented earlier may have changed the whole course of the story making it the exciting fare it could of been. STAGS might of worked as an episode of procedural TV drama, but as a book, not so much.
2317982789	HOLY SHIT that was fun. This entire book is kind of a mess, but I sort of love it for that reason. I never knew what was going to happen next, and I was intrigued the whole way through. Completely rating this by my enjoyment, I'd rate it as five stars! I feel like if this was a movie, it'd be one of my favorite movies of all time. It's just so much fun! And I think the cinematography of the forests and those scenes where she's standing by the window--yeah. It'd look amazing. But there are cringey things galore, so I did knock off a star. But it's honestly - just fun. If you're looking for a book to take you on an adventure, sort of creep you out but also entertain you? This is it. I realized, for the first time, that the magic hour is so beautiful because it's the last hour of the day. It's precious because the day is dying.I kind of really dig everything about this book because it is so quirky. I liked the main character's narration because she's very matter-of-the-fact. It's exactly how I would think, so I felt like her thoughts reflected mine pretty well. There's a part where she's like "Gasp. I really wasn't surprised by that, but he didn't know I knew so..." it's just! She's funny, okay. She's weird, but my sense of humor is weird too. So it worked for me.Great, I thought. My murder was literally going down in the history books.A summary of the book: don't trust white people™
2426585903	Wow. This book . . . wow. Ever since I first heard about S.T.A.G.S, I was excited to read it as it sounded right up my street: a YA mystery set in an English boarding school, complete with class issues (landed gentry vs new money / no money) and murder. What's not to love? When I first started, I was a little wary of the voice as Greer is telling the story after it happened, but the voice proved to be perfect.Within twenty pages or so, I was hooked. We know from very early on that Henry, a charismatic and slightly mysterious prefect, ends up dead, but we have no idea how or why. It made Greer's narrative even more interesting as she was telling the story from a point of hindsight rather than as if it was happening right then, dropping hints and foreshadowing along the way. I was gripped from start to finish, torn between my desire to know what happened and to keep the mystery going.I didn't want the book to end. Bennett's imagery was phenomenal, doing an absolutely stellar job of building the world of Longcross - Henry's lavish estate home, where the weekend of blood sports begins. This book had everything I want from a YA mystery: tension; suspense; brilliantly developed characters, and an intricate, grounded location. Not to mention a couple of brilliant twists! I can't wait to read Bennett's upcoming novel, The Island - another YA mystery.
2013825707	This was intensely gripping from start to finish. although the morbid person in me would have liked to 'huntin' shootin' fishin' to have started sooner.The only con... This would have earned a 4 star review if it hadn't been for the ridiculous amount of movie references. I'd maybe understand, in a book that related to movies somehow but it didn't.Half of the references I didn't understand or referred to films I hadn't seen and so I had to Google them in order for the reference to even have the desired effect which dropped the pace as fast as the elevator in Speed.(see my point) Not only that but theyll also date the book IMMENSELY overtime.I probably wouldn't have minded one or two references every few chapters but there seemed to be one on almost every other page. And not only that but if you have to rely on references to get your point across that much then...well. Movie references aside, I thought the book toed the line on some issues but overall the book was darkly enjoyable. Like a wolf prowling around your house, the Medievals were lethal but you couldn't help but let them in anyway.
2638993401	Una muy buena idea ejecutada de una manera mediocre. Nunca llega a un verdadero climax ni logra que los personajes te importen de verdad. Muchos clichés que hacen que olvides que al principio es bastante fácil de leer y muy adictiva. A la final eso no es suficiente y termina volviendose tediosa y demasiado descriptiva. Una lastima que sea una decepción.
2366694503	La caza... o en ingles S.T.A.G.S. simplemente... wow, no me lo puedo creer.Es intrigante el suspenso que hay en este libro, hace que tu cabeza no entienda que es lo correcto y que es lo opuesto. ¿En realidad vivimos en un mundo que se esta consumiendo por la tecnologia?Este thriller es una joya. ¿Quieres convertirte en un medieval o simplemente seras un salvaje?
