3368158331	dark academia will forever be the aesthetic of my soul buuuuut this book just doesnt quite pass the vibe check. sure, the idea is great. not exactly original, but it has all the classic characteristics of the genre. however, an interesting idea is usually never enough. i want world building - im still clueless about certain aspects of the game and why the students even play it. i want characterisation - this is a psychological story, but the heavy focus on the plot leaves little room for much needed character development. i want atmosphere - dark academia is supposed to be dark, but this story felt unimpressively dim in comparison.however, i do like the writing and that the narrative structure alternates between past and present. its unreliable and gives a couple of good revealing moments. but overall, this just feels like a bunch of wasted potential. go read ‘the secret history’ or ‘if we were villains’ instead. ↠ 2.5 stars
859360026	He would force himself to make friends with one British student at Pitt. Because any friendship was a path and paths always led elsewhere. To more paths and new places. Maybe even a better kind of life. And then, if he could only find a new world, Chad would skip down its lanes. Wherever they took him.ahhhh, famous last words….this is one of those cases where i feel i have to remind people that three stars from me is not a low rating. three is my broadest range of star-distribution, and this one falls on the higher end of the spectrum. there are a few things about it that frustrated the hell out of me, but is a true psychological suspense page-turner, and a hell of a mental ride.the opening is great - we have a man living in hermitical squalor, trapped in a web of OCD-routines and a mental disturbance so profound he has had to develop physical mnemonic devices to remind himself to even put on clothes. or eat. he has not been outside of his new york apartment in three years beyond going to the bodega for necessary supplies. he receives a troubling phone call that reminds him of something he has willed himself to forget, and we’re off!from there, the story flips between the narrator in present-day, and his experiences 14 years ago when he was a student at oxford. It’s a sort of The Secret History scenario:smart, poorly adjusted kids on campus, who think they are better than everyone else, set apart from the herd with a dynamic charismatic boy at the group’s center, a seemingly “less-than-the-others” outsider boy latching on to the group’s chemistry, wanting inclusion, secret meetings and activities that eventually end in tragedy – textbook secret history.this one offers a twist – a game of psychological manipulation that is devised by the group whose escalating dares and pranks and enforced secrecy are overseen by a shadow society offering a cash prize for the eventual winner.the mechanics of the game itself are vague; cards, dice, folded pieces of paper in cups, but the consequences are not. not at all.and they will ultimately rock the very foundation of the group, expose their insecurities, and go very dark.the thing that secret history-ish books don’t always get is that one of the things that makes sh so good is how slowly it starts, how much of the beginning is character development. and while we get some highly detailed insight into two of the characters, many of the others are pretty stock: comic relief, dreamy damaged girl, beautiful tough girl, socially-challenged genius, bitter homosexual etc. so while it is a psychological story at its core, it is much more plot-driven than character-driven, which leaves it a little lopsided.its strength is in its structure. we have several layers of unreliability here. a purported narrator, telling the stories both of his time in college, playing the game, and his life today, which has been completely destroyed by the game’s fallout. within his own written narrative he inserts a “secret” narrative, which was not as cool a device as it could have been, as it was very one-note; focusing on only one particular drive. then, a sweet twist in the narrative adds on a whole other layer of unreliability, which was a very cool move, and made some of the reader head-scratching about the seeming om-narr stuff in the initial chapters make sense. but also makes its own “but, waits…”still – pretty sweet.some of my frustrations: the ominous role of the shadow society is strongly hinted at, but never fully explored, and the final “win” of the game is too easy. it has that feel of how vincent d’onofrio can always elicit a confession by just a couple of leading questions to the dramatic swelling of the l&o music – the person in question here breaks too easily, despite what we know about their background. it can’t come down to that. but it does.and just a personal gripe: there is a sort of byron shout-out:He passed Bethlehem College and then St. Christopher’s where a famous English poet had kept a bear in his room after the college had banned the keeping of dogs.which i assume was meant to be byron, unless this is a common occurrence among british poets, but it actually happened at trinity college at cambridge, not oxford. but it’s not the worst ever byron-error in literature.oh, and a super-minor gripe, but i stumbled over the name “jolyon” every single time. every time.overall, a really solid read about psychological warfare and group dynamics and a new spin on a type of book i eat up like candy beans. worth the read.come to my blog!
691804319	Anyone who doesn't see the danger in an "innocent" board-game played between loved ones- has never played Risk with my father and I. It wasn't pretty, and friends who occasionally joined in- would usually get to see a whoooooooooole new side to my family. Alliances were formed...there was sometimes yelling and pleading. And by the end- it was almost always down to me and my dad- both of us ignoring everyone around us- "It's just a game!", "I've had enough", "This is stupid" "I'm going to bed" "Can't we allllllll just get along?" "bleep this bleeping bleep!", "I am never playing this game with you two ever again!!!"... Eventually we had to take Risk off the list of suggestions for game night. Scruples was the next BIG mistake...and was only played ONCE before my mother hid it away FOREVEEEEER.Set in the 1990s- Oxford University. Newly acquainted- Chad- a shy American student studying abroad and -Jolyon- a charismatic law student- meet and soon become inseparable. As the weeks go by an idea for a game forms, and four other friends are gathered to join in on the "fun". Jack- the sarcastic kidder, Emilia- the beautiful and sensitive love interest of both Chad and Jolyon, Mark- the clever sleepy "Mad Scientist", and Cassie/Dee- the odd suicidal poet.The Game- a roll of the dice- dares and consequences, with a money prize for the last man/woman standing. £1000 put up by each player- £10,000 put up by three mysterious young men only known to the players- as tallest, medium, and shortest. It starts off as a lively amusing competition...but as the months pass- trust is broken, friendships are torn apart, and one of the six ends up dead.Fourteen years later- New York City- One of the players is living a reclusive existence - only leaving his Manhattan apartment for the necessities- food, alcohol, and meds. OCD has taken over and he uses mnemonic devices to remind him of his daily routine....But that routine is broken when he receives a troubling phone call and learns that The Game is far from over...BLACK CHALK flips between the narrator/present-day, and fourteen years ago when he and his friends were students at oxford- A clever psychological thriller- full of twists, turns and loads of suspense right to the very end. *Received copy from Netgalley in exchange for review.
982336829	I received a copy of this book thanks to the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review, many thanks for the opportunity.One game. Six students. Five survivors. It was only ever meant to be a game.A game of consequences, of silly forfeits, childish dares. A game to be played by six best friends in their first year at Oxford University. But then the game changed: the stakes grew higher and the dares more personal, more humiliating, finally evolving into a vicious struggle with unpredictable and tragic results.Now, fourteen years later, the remaining players must meet again for the final round. I have had to let this book settle on me for a few hours before doing this review. I had such high hopes starting this book based on the synopsis, I thought it sounded psychologically fascinating and thrilling.Sadly, it was anything but.This book was just not a fit for me, I didn't get it, had read prior reviews to realise it seems a bit of a like/dislike book with clear lines.It was slightly confusing at first as the narration kept switching from 1st person present, to 3rd person past, eventually I got into the swing of that. The characters that enter the book in early stages are VERY hard to connect with, they are all a bit untouchable, out of reach of me, one dimensional, flat and well.....just really boring. They all started to roll into one for me in different places of this book.The game itself which was vaguely explained was not really that thrilling at all. College students, doing a lot of drinking, smoking pot and talking in dorm rooms get involved in a game that essentially involves a lot of mind-messing with each other, psychological manipulation, but it lacked the buzz, the thrill, the moments where you hold your breath in anticipation. So much time was spent on what they did at college, it was too much, too wordy, too monotonous, we get the picture, or at least I did.I didn't like the tone of the book either, it didn't resonate with me at all. I spent so much time in this book literally straining mentally to connect in with the plot and the characters and being unable to do so. The game continues on (really not much is happening), until the last players are standing, that's when the two narrations connect, the past speaker and the present and the meeting of minds happens. Yay! At last I thought, the ending has got to be BRILLIANT right? But woe is me! It wasn't, it was just, well....disappointing. This is one of the few books I have read in recent years that actually left me feeling irritated and frustrated whilst reading it and after, because I wanted to immerse myself in it and get it, I wanted it to be more, but I was left standing out in the cold looking in with a confused look on my face.Look, some have loved this book, I have no idea why, but we all have different tastes in books, so maybe it's for you. It just certainly was not a memorable read or an enjoyable one for me.Thanks so much for reading my review of this book. Join me as a friend or follower and feel free to browse my shelves for your next great book! I love to connect with other readers.You can also find me on Amazon U.K. where I am a Top 500 Reviewer.
1380314351	Where to start with this disaster of a novel? Black Chalk is about a game. The jacket and reviews will hint that the game is mysteriously dark and devious and will have a shocking conclusion.. If only. In truth, the game is never really described, despite the very long lead up to it and all the build up. The consequences are built up even more, they must be terrible, truly horrific and psychologically devastating, right?? I mean, that's what the book is about, right?? Nope. The consequences are boring and lame. Every kid in their 20's has embarrassing things happen to them, most of which are much worse than the ones dreamed up in this book. The characters are flat and unlikeable. They vacillate between over-reacting and under-reacting to things that happen. The overall effect is just confusing. You never get a sense of satisfaction reading this book as you would with a book that gives you a deeper understanding of a character and their motivations. The game is overseen by the 3 flattest characters in the book- Shortest, Middle and Tallest. I guess this group was meant to be a shadowy, mysterious and a somewhat scary force in the book, propelling the characters to stay in the game even when they don't want to. Instead, they have absolutely no dimension or gravitas,and therefore, cannot serve their purpose in any way. The game itself takes a back seat to the lives of the kids at Pitt. Thier lives are exactly what you imagine life to be living in a dorm in college, drinking, sex and drama- and not very interesting drinking, sex and drama, either.Perhaps the most unjust crime in this book is the build up leading to the loooooooong awaited end of the game. I wish I could say there was some payoff for getting through the muck of this book, sadly, I cannot. Like everything else in this book, the end came with a fizzle and an anticlimactic plop. Absolutely nothing interesting happened at the end. At all. Such lost potential in this book, the idea is a great one. If only the idea matched the content.
1814653228	“The true gambler plays for the thrill, the sheer ecstasy of taking part. And the purest thrill comes not from the idea of winning but from the fear of defeat, from there being something real and valuable on the line. If there’s nothing to lose, then where’s the thrill? The true gambler does the opposite."Christopher Yates-Black ChalkI just do not get how anyone could give this under a 4. I first heard about Black Chalk when I read a review of it, not online, but in a magazine. I knew I had to have it. I read through the night, finished it in the wee hours and was immediately pissed off at finishing. I wanted more.This is s spell binding book about a group of college students who participate in a game. It's sort of a test of all of them psychologically. They never expect the game to take hold of their whole utter being but that is precisely what happens. As the game goes on, the interest of all the students in winning it, spirals out of control. But there can be only one winner and out of that, is where darkness and tragedy strike.This book has been compared to "The Secret History" but I actually like this better. It is a pounding intense dramatic piece of fiction that I just could not turn away from.ENDING SPOILERS..STOP NOW IF YOU HAVE NOT READ:I really would like to see a part two of this book. I think there is a story there just waiting to happen! Yet I could understand if the writer chooses not to. I have also read many a sequel that do not live up to the original book so I guess my feelings are a bit mixed on the subject. I loved this book and found it intense, moving, powerful and unputdownable.
663702091	The premise of Black Chalk is fascinating. In the 1990s, a group of six friends at an Oxford University college invent an intense, secretive psychological game. This mainly consists of a series of increasingly humiliating and personal forfeits, which the player must carry out without letting anyone know they are dares. And the stakes are high, as after the intervention of a mysterious game society at the university, the victor stands to win £10,000. Back to the present day: one of the group (and it's not immediately clear which one, so I won't give it away) is still haunted by the results of what they called the Game, and is holed up in a New York apartment which he hasn't left for years. A phone call leads him to attempt to abandon his hermit lifestyle, and suggests that the Game is still being played.I started off really quite disliking this book, then I got used to it and thought it was okay, then I got a lot more interested in it towards the end - resulting in a three-star, average rating overall. My main problem at the beginning was that I disliked all of the characters. There's Jolyon, who is reasonably interesting but not likeable; Chad, who is extremely bland; Jack, who can't seem to open his mouth without making some hideously offensive comment; Mark, who has no distinguishing characteristics other than being a physics genius; Emilia, who I didn't hate but can't think of anything much to say about; and Dee, who is a sort of manic pixie dream girl taken to extremes. Later, at least some of these characters do become somewhat likeable and are fleshed out into more believable people, but I felt it took too long for this to happen: I was halfway through the book before I was really committed to finding out what happened. Before this, I would probably have abandoned it if it hadn't been an advance copy.Something I've learned from reading a lot of these Secret-History-alike books is that you can't just take a load of random characters, shove them together in a situation like this, and expect it to work. When I read these books, I'm often reminded of the teen high school series I used to love so much when I was younger, in which the loudest girl in the class, a shy tomboy, a vain airhead and a nerdy brainbox would all, implausibly, be the best of friends. For a long while I found it difficult to believe that Jolyon, who's supposed to be universally popular, would hang around with this group of people almost exclusively, or that Emilia would want to share oxygen with an idiot like Jack. My belief in this scenario only solidified when the remaining players became obsessed with the Game; however, I struggled with the idea that many of them would have been so drawn in by it in the first place, and I think this is the book's fundamental flaw. It doesn't feel like the characters develop naturally into what they end up becoming, it's more like the end-point came first and then the author tried to create a way for the characters to get there. This isn't to say that Black Chalk is all bad. There's a lot of really intriguing stuff in it. One of my favourite things about it was the mysterious influence of Game Soc, and I was disappointed this wasn't explored in more detail. Again, it was an aspect of the plot that the author didn't quite seem to know what to do with. I liked the way the character of Jolyon developed, and Mark's revenge campaign, and Emilia's righteousness about her dad and her background. And the story certainly made for a better, more enjoyable and engrossing read than The Magic Circle, which was similar in that both are academic-elite novels in which playing games of some kind becomes an obsession of the characters.Ultimately, I wouldn't say this book is one to avoid: it's worth a go, but I can't recommend it wholeheartedly. There is enough originality to make it fairly interesting, but this format is getting a little tired now (perhaps an unfair judgement from me as I have read so many of these stories - but the fact remains that there's a lot of them out there already) and it isn't innovative or daring enough to elevate it above the majority of similar efforts.
1382877595	This book held such promise from the initial synopsis. As soon as I read it on Amazon, I knew I had to have it; "...perfect for fans of the high tension and expert pacing of The Secret History..." Using my second favorite novel of all time in the premise of a book, and likening the two, how could I not want to read this? As you can probably tell, my expectations were sky high with the hopes of reading something on par with Ms. Donna Tartt.And let me say this: Everything about this book fell flat.The characters, the plot, the game itself... there was nothing that gripped me.For one, the shifting POV of first person present to third person was an odd choice. It threw me off aburptly, and continued to do so throughout until both POVs finally came to the same place in time. The characters themselves were utterly forgettable. Four extremely bland, and two slightly less, people converge to play a game. Of course, I had high hopes the game would make everything more interesting. Instead, it was an annoyance. First off, it wasn't explicitly explained. If this is to take up a majority of the book I'm reading, I want to know the ins-and-outs back and front. We don't get that here, only a vague idea of how the game is played. Now, where's the fun in that? The game continued being lame, and the players managed to become even more boring as the plot "progressed," focusing more on their day-to-days and school life, than the mental mind games of a supposedly psychologically deranged game.Everything was so utterly predicatble, too. The final players (mentioned within the first 50 pages) being revealed early on, the tricks and deceits all completely obvious. I truly expected the final face off to be a roaring extravaganza of the most brutal kind, but it was the exact antithesis of everything fun. Talk about anti-climactic. So disappointed in the way the climax was handled.Lastly, the two "main" characters (if you want to look at it that way), I loathed; Absolutely HATED! Really, I could not find anything redeeming about either. As much as the author tried to portray them with good qualities, their attitudes and their actions outweighed any kind of connection with me. The fact that there was one particular character (view spoiler)[Chad (hide spoiler)], who was portrayed as almost 'villainous' was absurd. (view spoiler)[Let it be known that Joylon is one of the most annoying characters I've ever read in literature. I hated him. Scratch that, I STILL hate him. How does he get portrayed as the victim in the end? Sure, he was a complete mess, but rightfully so! Mark, anyone? I just don't get it... I would've loved to see him continue playing that game til his demise. (hide spoiler)].I thought I was going to read something on par with my beloved The Secret History, but instead, I crawled through the sludge of another weak imitation of far superior works.In the end, I can't say anything good about this book. I had to force myself to finish it, when I should never have even bothered in the first place.
689617860	Coming September from Random House UK Vintage Publishing Thank you kindly to the publisher and the author for the advance copy of this novel via Netgalley. One game. Six students. Five survivors.At University, six friends come together and play a game. Its a silly little game imagined by two of their number – a game of actions followed by consequences growing ever more intricate in nature…with one winner to remain standing at the end. Fun. Oh yes. Or no. As the game becomes ever more involved, the stakes higher, the opponents becoming ever more competitive and adversarial, friendships will be destroyed and tragedy will strike. Watched over by the ever mysterious Game Soc, the players are pushed to their limits….just how far will they go and how much of their future will they sacrifice?This story will sink into your subconcious…..written in a clever and compelling way the lines between fantasy and reality blur and you will never be quite sure where you are. The game itself is brilliantly imagined – it seems so innocuous and yet its insidious…when is the game being played exactly…and just how serious will the consequences be?Another extremely clever aspect of this novel for me, is the way that the usual “twists” you would be expecting to come at the end, or as game changers somewhere in the middle are all over the place and intricately placed. In a way this is very much a character driven novel…Jolyon stands out as perhaps one of the most enthralling and unusual characters you will find in fiction – and the rest of the students in their own way are just as fascinating. Any one of them can walk away at any moment…but will they? Psychologically speaking they are all captivating – are any of them quite as they appear? Its very cunning writing…Insidious indeed.As a mystery, it works on several levels. It will keep you guessing but not about the usual things perhaps. You will want to work out what is going on but every time you think you do, something changes. Someone talks, someone else listens and the whole playing field shifts…if you were to ask me to sum up this novel in a sentence I would perhaps say “The Twilight Zone on Acid” and yet it is all very much grounded in reality. After all, we all play mind games…don’t we?I will say without a doubt this is one of the best books I have read this year. It will be going into Highly Recommended. As Sherlock Holmes might say. Come Watson….The Game is Afoot.Happy Reading Folks!
1368963378	I can't believe I kept reading this thing until the end. A cast of unlikable characters play adult versions of mean-spirited junior high school pranks on each other as part of a game to which they are totally committed for no apparent reason. I kept hoping for a slam-bang ending, but the finish was an unsurprising slow fade.
970705572	There needs to be a way on Goodreads of recording why you added a book onto your "to read" shelf. I probably saw a review of it somewhere. Looking at other reviews, it mentions that its like "a secret history", which would explain why I added it.This is one of those books where I lost any idea about the characters. Who they were, what motivated them, what their interactions with each other. I had no idea.The split time line didn't help. The weak characterisation didn't help. I hope to god I never read another book where Jolyon is a main character.Back in the day - students invent a game, based around daring each other to put themselves in uncomfortable positions. This could have worked, if only it was written with a bit of panache.All we know is someone died as a result of one of the games.14 years on, one person is living a life of sorts - suffering from OCD, self medicating, drinking whiskey. And the game starts again.Hopelessly lost on me. The struggle increased until I triumphantly posted it back through the library letter box. The library was closed and I was desperate to get it off my hands.Onwards and upwards.
736718940	Don't be fooled by the whole 'you'll like this if you like The Secret History' marketing. As with many other books which are lazily given this epitaph in the hope that it will shift copies, the only thing Black Chalk has in common with The Secret History is that it's (mainly) set in a university. Other than that the two books have nothing in common, with Black Chalk suffering from two-dimensional unsympathetic characters, a plot which isn't as clever as it thinks it is and 'twists' which you can see coming a mile-off. If I had picked this up of the shelf and read it without any preconceptions it may have fared better, but as the marketing directly invites comparison with far superior books I have no choice but to benchmark it against them. Disappointing.
2920918112	A diverting enough thriller that ultimately promises more than it can deliver. 6 Oxford students play a very dangerous game, the consequences rendered over a number of years. The machinations of Yates' game are somewhat muddled to a point to where the reader is either confused or left not caring. The characters are reasonably well-drawn and you're never bored. But you're also never really enthralled. Mild recommendation.
3269818349	2,5 stars. I thought this'd be getting a 3 from me throughout the book, but the finale was so ridiculously anticlimactic I HAD to bump it down. It's not unreadable trash, it's decently entertaining but -the characters are weak-it's lowkey misogynistic (like most books written by men; the women are just there to be love interests and create relationship drama, little more than pawns in the mind games the men play, I don't think it even passes the Bechdel test)-ridiculously vague (the author never even bothers to think up how the oh-so-serious Game is played, we just get a vague description of cards and dice being used and several hollow sentences about it being heavily reliant on strategy and the players' psychological state. He even makes sure to put in a "the Game doesn't matter, though, it's all about the players" Incorrect. The Game is everything to these characters so yes, it matters. Not to mention how heavily hyped Game Soc is, without ever actually exploring any of that potential, they're just there lurking in the shadows and being vaguely menacing)-the past-narrated-in-the-present gimmick didn't work, I hate it when books have to rely on someone narrating stuff instead of seeing it unfold myself-and, again, the finale is stupidly anticlimactic after being hyped up for the entire book. The author tries to throw some major twists at us but by that point, nobody cares.Also, I don't think this is ~dark academia~ at all. Dark, yes, kinda, but where was the "academia" part? These people never, ever bothered to study and none of them were passionate about university even though they're going to fucking Oxford. Just because the book is set in a school doesn't make it academic. The Game has nothing to do with academia, either, the university is just a backdrop for everything.Honestly, the book isn't terrible, I didn't have a bad time with it. It's just that all the issues kept piling up instead of it ever getting better.P.S. This is petty, but I hated Jolyon's name and I kept reading it as "Joe-lee-on" even though it's supposed to be "Jolly-un"
4566878299	Like 4 or 5 years ago I read a BTS fanfic called White Chalk. When I got to the end of the story there was an author’s note saying it was loosely based on this book, Black Chalk. I figured since I enjoyed the fic I should give the book a try. But then I saw all the mixed/negative reviews and decided I better not. But here I am, years later, having read it because Kayla from BooksandLala read it in a video and gave it 4 stars. But uh… I think I should’ve just stuck with my original plan of not reading it. I love a dark academia story with mystery and groups of pretentious, unlikeable characters. However, I have to find the characters interesting or compelling in order to be invested in the story. And that just didn’t happen here. I didn’t care about what was going on in the plot because I found all of the characters to be so dull. The book has an interesting premise, but the execution just didn’t work for me. It did keep me reading because I wanted to find out how it ended. But it was a letdown in the end.
814564405	Black Chalk by Christopher J YatesIn the early 1990s six bright, self-satisfied, Oxford first-years spend time together – smoking and drinking – but want more out of life. So they get involved in “the game”. This is a series of dares – with embarrassment the aim – and penalities. As you might expect, it gets out of hand. Fourteen years later, one is dead and only two are left in the game.Need a one-word summary? Frustrating.There were some nice ideas but they weren’t as well developed as they could have been. The characters were too precious for my liking.The tropes were boring. I’m really getting fed up of the flash-back/forward thing, unreliable narrators and stories being set prior to mobile phones and the internet. It’s just lazy, to my mind.The main character’s name is Jolyon – think jolly and Julian. That set my teeth on edge for a start. I’m betraying my class roots, perhaps, or just being an inverse snob.This is the author’s first book and I know aspiring writers are encouraged to write about what they know but if you read law at Oxford must you write a book about someone who read law at Oxford? Maybe Yates will improve.Oh, and the ending was rubbish. Sorry, but it was. I won’t give it away but it was wholly unbelievable.I’ve made a lot of negative comments but I enjoyed reading this in the main. I was keen to see how he was going to tie things up in the end, just disappointed with the ending.5/10
1359174803	DNF'd early on,this book lacked fluidity and a clear vision. I was bored,my apologies to those who loved it. Just not my thing.
7094169461	3.25 actual rating. I was having a fine time reading this but the ending pissed me off and ultimately lowered the rating 😔
2747019578	Chad Mason, a New Yorker, is studying for a year at Pitt College in Oxford, England. He meets Jolyon and they become fast friends.They invent a game where the loser must face the consequences of psychological dares. Putting together a group of six to play, until only one is left. Emilia, the sweet, beautiful girl, Dee the quirky poet, Mark, quiet but brilliant and Jack the obnoxious jokester, complete the bunch.They play the game in rounds, the loser must fulfill his dare to stay in the game. As the game progresses, these challenges become darker and more twisted.Fourteen years later, down to two players, it is time to finish the game!An inventive, unconventional thriller with unreliable narratives. The story resonates with a menacing darkness. Looking forward to seeing what the author comes up with next!
2568775106	I read Yates in reverse, starting last year with his sophomore effort. It was pretty good, but now I know I’ve been shortchanged, because Black Chalk, his debut, showcases a talent and a potential his second book doesn’t really even come close to. Way to set the standards. And I read a lot of thrillers. A lot. It takes something genuinely original and striking for a thriller to stand out for me and this one definitely had that elusive quality. But fair warning…this book messes with you. It does so cleverly and methodically. Mainly by featuring narrator so unreliable (the book actually warns us via famous quotation to not trust the narrator, but to trust the tale), we don’t even know who he is until 17% in. And from there on we don’t know if he’s in the right mind or more like how much of what’s going on is in his wrong mind. The plot itself features a genre standard split timeline account, the present where our sanity challenged 34 year old narrator in self imposed seclusion in a New York City apartment is struggling to navigate his increasingly uncertain reality while awaiting a visit from bygone days and the past where this narrator is happy, young and dumb as only 20 year olds can be, in England attending a prestigious college. It is there, spurred on by a mysterious Game Soc (short for society) that he meets some friends and they play a game of consequence, which starts off as silly pranks and quickly goes wrong and then very wrong from there. So yeah, for a lot of the narration you’re stuck with a bunch of 20 year olds, smart enough to be in a good school, but not enough to make good choices. Then again I suppose they had to be 20, there is that certain reckless stupidity, the erroneous belief in personal invincibility and a genuine carefree attitude toward the world that dissipates with years. Because otherwise who’d play a dangerous, malicious, hideous game like that. But yeah, it certainly sets the stage, one where the play still isn’t done 14 years later. So the premise here is good, yes, but it’s the execution that really elevates the proceedings. Yates, particularly in the present time narration, creates such a terrifically taut suspense, such a maddeningly claustrophobic atmosphere, you can’t put this book down. Well, you can, I did, had to, but very reluctantly and was very eager to pick it back up. It’s the sort of story that goes beyond having likeable characters, beyond the prerequisite plot twists (although they are there), it’s a dark, disturbing, psychological thriller in the best possible way. It draws you in, it challenges and excites the mind. Basically, it’s pretty awesome. Great read. Recommended.
4349452976	I started this book on November 27th.On the morning of November 28th I woke with a sore throat. This escalated to one rotten-ass cold that settled in my chest (anything I get goes straight to my lungs), rolling through 9 days of violent hacking and sneezing (one of which tore my abdomen muscles, making subsequent coughs, sneezes and nose blowings feel as if I was being driven through with a samurai sword), up to today, where I can finally say I am feeling quite a bit better. (For those wondering, I am fully vaccinated, and went for a Covid test just in case: Negative)This turning of the corner healthwise is well met with the completion of this book. I finished it over lunch and can honestly say I felt instantly better once that last word was read.Never again. Never, never, never again will I ignore that DNF urge.This has not been a stellar reading year for me. I have been blaming my disinterest, apathy, impatience on the fact that other life factors are dominating my thoughts, and so I was beginning to think some books may have not been given fair shots. Having heard very good things about this book from a trusted source, I refused to give in to the urge to drop it and move on to something else. So I suffered, mouth-breathing and curling into wracking coughing fits, through every painstaking page of this novel.This was not anywhere near as good or interesting as the synopsis would imply. A group of six college friends decide to play a game where the consequences involve performing psychologically difficult (embarrassing at first, then escalating) acts. This sounded fantastic and totally up my alley. And for the first twenty pages or so, I found the character development was alreadyin high gear. This was feeling like a five star read, easy.However, as the story moves forth, the game itself (which took excruciatingly long to get going), or specifically the consequences being forced to occur, were brief and for the most part dull to read. Surrounding the game was worse. The mundane details of these friends' relationships were dull and uninteresting, which may not have been so tedious if not for that dangling carrot of psychological consequences. It goes without saying that the pacing of this thing was frustrating at best.And after trudging through 340 pages of muddled, boring details and unsatisfying developments, I get that ending?!I resent this book every bit as much as the chest infection I just fought. I do believe my disappointing reading year is mostly due to some unfortunate book selections. I am looking forward to my next one with renewed optimism.
746556676	Black Chalk is a dark and twisting tale of friendships stretched to breaking point as the result of a game of dares. Six students meet in the first few weeks of university and devise a game which they assume will entertain them during their first year of study, fourteen years later it is still being played and the consequences felt. The story is narrated by one of the players who is reflecting back on the start of the game at the point the last round is about to be played and the ultimate winner revealed.It is difficult to go into great detail about the plot without revealing some of the many twists and turns it contains, which were very inventive and and left me wrong footed on a number of occasions. It was very refreshing to read a story where you couldn't take anything for granted.As a first novel Christopher J. Yates has written a very fine, captivating thriller. The chapters are relatively short which makes it very easy to read and I found it was difficult to put down. I was really looking forward to reading this book and certainly wasn't disappointed. If you are looking for something a little bit different to read I would thoroughly recommend it.
1554723555	“Black Chalk” is an okay novel, but I don’t think it would be worth rereading at some later point. I certainly did not find it to be as clever as some reviews of it would have you believe.First off, the book has been labeled a “thriller” and maybe there are a few moments where psychologically it is one, but overall I would not label this text as such. I found that the novel rarely held my attention for more than 10-15 pages at a time, and thus even for a short book it is not a quick read. There are moments of foreshadowing that happen at the end of every few chapters and they are very heavy handed. However, they do create an atmosphere for the text and the world inside the narrator’s mind, so I did not mind them as much as I would normally.The author, Christopher J. Yates, creates some nice moments in the text. There is the occasional line that does an excellent job of capturing some essence of friendship. And there are many interesting ideas and relationships presented in the story. But this leads to the novel’s biggest disappointment in that they are never developed or explored and so they are just plopped in and then go nowhere.I read “Black Chalk” for a book club and interestingly all of our thoughts on it followed the same pattern. It was not me, it was the book. I wish it had been more enjoyable to read, but it wasn’t.
1385295606	I have both a penchant for playing games and for reading about people playing games. I think this is a respectable debut novel. Not perfect, but interesting. Not as far fetched as it might be although there is a plot hole that I don't think was sufficiently explained. But, I found this entertaining and a quick read. I like stories that keep propelling me forward...where I do not want to put the book down because I am invested into what happens next. Although I have thankfully never been involved in a game of this nature, I am a competitive person and play to win so I can understand how a game can get out of control. If you are a game player, I think you will enjoy reading this story.
7836844410	The baby being born halfway through side-tracked me for a bit
2737181882	Chad, an American transfer student in Britain, vows to turn his social life around. He befriends Jolyon, and after that he has a group of fellow freshman friends. Restless, dissatisfied, and cocky, they embark upon "The Game" in order to further add to their lives. They have a good group, but they're all still looking for more. The sense of camaraderie and discovery of college freedom is warm and lovely. These were my favorite parts of the book. Yates really made this period in their lives feel special and new. But dialogue can be overwrought and cheesy; everything felt very cleverly scripted. Characters frequently engage in back-and-forths chock full of zingers and quips. The consistency of this tone is very bouncy though. The quippy tone was definitely the author's intention, but it butts up awkwardly against the tone when it aims for realism and gravity. As can often be observed in thrillers/mysteries, individual elements of the scenario may be ludicrous. The author does this in order to explain how things work. Black Chalk is no different. Fairly early on, the friend group receives financial backing from a mysterious on-campus group. The explanation and resolution of the on-campus group is silly. Very silly. And it also seems as if the author is trying to sneak a political message in that's both boring and random. The resolution at the end is totally unnecessary, and stamps out any sense of pleasurable mystery that surrounded them during their introduction. A message to other books-- just leave it unexplained. Yates deftly balances character showcase and plot. It's not mainly about characters, and it's not mainly about plot (usually the downfall of thrillers for me is an over reliance on a "clever" plot). He also uses one to create interest in the other; the character's firmly- defined personalities determine how they play the game, and the game determines how their personalities form in college and into adulthood. Yates also really surprises the reader with the way he nods at tropes and then twists them. Two male characters acknowledge the toxic masculinity they are displaying and then continue to engage in it by indulging in a stare-off. One male character yells at a female character, who begins to cry and is prepared to run off, but is hindered by the cast she is wearing. She's forced to awkwardly sit with him as they sit in the aftermath of their argument and the choices they've made leading up to this point. Scenarios like this kept me deeply engaged and motivated to continue through the lackluster bits. The end disappoints as all is explained too clearly and a straightforward villain emerges. It becomes a clear-cut battle between two characters, and the plot hinted all along that this is what it would come down to. I personally found it more interesting when social dynamics, cliques, and the college community was involved with The Game. Nothing is more boring than a man v. man showdown. This is still an easy book to recommend, and I'm deeply happy I found a thriller to admire.
897211690	Black Chalk is Christopher J. Yates's debut novel. "It was only ever meant to be a game. A game of consequences, of silly forfeits, childish dares. A game to be played by six best friends in their first year at Oxford University. But then the game changed: the stakes grew higher and the dares more personal, more humiliating, finally evolving into a vicious struggle with unpredictable and tragic results." Black Chalk opens in present day with an unnamed narrator remembering his first days at Oxford and the beginning of the game. The narrative flips between then and now....fourteen years later when we know something has gone horribly wrong. Our narrator is not mentally stable, rarely ventures outside, doesn't open his curtains and has an elaborate system to remind himself to eat and drink. He begins to write down his memories of that time - but are they reliable? I was quite sure I knew which of the six was the narrator, then found I was mistaken - and that my assumptions about the path the book would take were all quite wrong. Yates drops little hints throughout via small offhand comments or bits of foreshadowing that had me constantly guessing as to who the survivor be. Reading Black Chalk was like watching a frightening film - you know, that creepy feeling in the pit of your stomach when you know characters are making decisions that can't end well. And yet, you can't stop watching (reading) until you know how it ends. And Black Chalk was frightening. Although Yates has penned a fictional work, I think the origins of it are based in truth. As I read, I thought of hazings gone wrong at schools, the desire to 'fit in', to be the 'winner'. But at what cost? And who decides to 'up the stakes'? "And none of them seemed for even a moment to consider that, for the Game to end, they would have to subject one another to greater and greater humiliations. It couldn't remain light-hearted forever." And it doesn't. Yates takes his characters and plot to some dark places. Black Chalk is a twisting labyrinth of a tale with something terrible waiting at the centre. My only quibble is the ending - I found it a bit unsatisfying. But I think it's just my desire for all threads to be neatly tied up and resolved.
840355281	Books come in many types; fiction and non-fiction, long and short, tedious and fascinating. One type is a “quick read” and another is a “savoring read.” Black Chalk by Christopher J. Yates is a book to savor. It tells the story of six friends attending the fictional Pitt College in the non-fictional Oxford University. The story swings in time from the present to fourteen years ago when the six friends meet.Each friend, like all of us, has his or hers own insecurities. The American, Chad, is ashamed of having been raised in a pig farm. Jolyon must use “physical mnemonics” to remember basic things. In a very claustrophobic present, he has become a hermit who can’t even remember to dress himself without seeing a salad bowl (the bowl reminds him of salad dressing which reminds him of clothes).Jolyon and Chad are the major characters; Jack, Dee, Emilia, and Mark fill out the list of friends. Chad suggests they all play a game, one involving cards and dice. The loser must perform consequences that escalate with each round of the game. They become tailored to the psychology of each player.Chad approaches members of a mysterious “Game Soc.[iety],” who foresee the ultimate outcome of such a game. They help fund it and create incentives (the loss of a thousand pound deposit) to perform each consequence.Eventually, the game leads to the death of one of the friends and the total breakdown of the friendship. Fourteen years later, Jolyon is now living in New York City and it is time to play the long delayed last round of the game with the final contestant, Chad. The loser may, or may not, end up having to play another Game Soc. game.The story, both in the past and present, is complicated and full of twists, turns, red herrings, and unreliable memories—particularly Jolyon’s. I recommend it highly. I will note that I won Black Chalk in Goodread’s First Reads program and I am glad I did.
1386716109	I heard the review on NPR and had to buy this book. -"I want you to go into it cold, knowing nothing and expecting nothing, like I did. I want you to suck it down in one breath, like a lungful of dark water. For it to hit you the same way it did me: like a sucker punch delivered slowly and with exquisite precision." (NPR) It was intriguing since there was so little he could tell about it without giving something important away. It was a page turner and I was very interested to continue reading to see what happened next. I had a great impression of the book the moment I finished. I probably would have given it 4 stars at that time. After reflecting back on the book for a couple days, I start to notice the shortcomings. Two of the six main characters are especially static and one-dimensional. The involvement of Game Soc is a critical aspect of the plot, yet it is forced. Why not have six kids put their money in a pot and the winner gets it all? Why go to an outside group for funding so the winner gets more money (it wasn't even that much more money)? The ending has its surprises but ultimately it was a bit of a let down. Overall, the book carries the reader along with plenty of twists and turns to keep them thinking.
1518614254	Well, in all fairness, I shouldn't even put "read" by this book. I can't remember where I heard of it, but the story sounded intriguing. One Game. Six Students. Five Survivors. Kind of reminded me of Big Little Lies - a whodunit with a lot of intrigue. I read the first ten pages of this book. Didn't like the narrator, didn't like the way the narration changed points of view. Didn't like the guy's mnemonic devices. Decided that after reading such a superb book (Me Before You), I just didn't want to settle for something that irritated me so early in the reading. So - this review is mainly to remind me that it's ok to put down a book early if it doesn't appeal to me. And to remind myself DO NOT BE FOOLED BY THE TEMPTING WORDS ON THE COVER.
1378237038	I really wanted to love this book, but it fell short for me. The premise is fantastic and as it was compared to Tartt's Secret History, (one of my favorite books) I was extremely excited to read it. The beginning really drew me in, but it just sort of fizzles out after the hook is set. I was expecting, and wanting, so much more from Black Chalk. Conceptually, I think Yates is definitely talented and I hope that he has another book in the works. While this one didn't do it for me, I would definitely check out another novel from him in the future.
8055999628	*3.5 stars
6701249022	I would love for this to be a movie.
742080292	A novel for the turn of the 21st century - power, determination and gullibility. Chad, an American, arrives at Pitt College, Oxford (built in 1620 with requisite Gothic glories of architecture) to study for a year, and his first encounter with freshman Jolyon is to have longlasting consequences. Chad is desperate to insinuate himself into college life and become part of a clique, to become part of the establishment. Under the auspices of Game Soc the two of them are the instigators of what turns out to be a 14 year game.Hapless alumni are picked up on the way until there are six of them prepared to invest financially, the winner takes all. But this is not a game of tiddlywinks, this is a game that starts off innocuously but soon revs up a gear, and the challenges set for each individual become more demanding.That was then; now, 14 years later there is a narrator, a hermit, living on the Lower East Side, whose identity is soon revealed. The only way he (clue!) can control his life is by constructing mnemonics, whisky glasses have to be placed just so for the pills he has take, little devices are constructed to remind him to eat and drink – control is slewed, and life without control is no life at all.This is indeed a story of control, how we each need it, and how it is always a knife-edge thing whether and when it becomes harmful to others. Are the members of Game Soc, to wit Tallest, Middle or Smallest running the game as they supervise the course it takes, or is it Jolyon, or Chad, or ultimately Jack, or Mark who really has the real insidious control over others? The two women Dee and Emilia appear more phlegmatic, but are they? We all know things are going to escalate when Middle says: "Get out clean, get out early because the longer you stay in, the more dangerous things become." The pathos mounts.A tactical plot, as strategic as a game of chess. Transfer the interactions to a world stage and you can see why the world has its problems. The book is beautifully set against two iconic backgrounds: Oxford University and New York City. I loved the clarity with which Oxford University life is portrayed, how the groups of students bond together early in the term, the class issues that pervade the university culture are always present – it is clear that the author must have experienced some of what he describes in this book himself as he really brings the setting to life: "Living in Oxford was like living submerged in an ocean of Oscar Wildes". Too true! And in New York, the narrator is living in an apartment in the East Village "...what a city of light and shadows New York becomes when the sun beats down and the tall buildings toss out their cool grey capes". Perfect!Well-written, with an unusual structure – each section is numbered with progressive Roman Numerals, heading towards D (500), a significant number for one of the group; it is like a counter - a time-bomb - ticking away towards some kind of game conclusion.Ultimately this is the kind of book that tenaciously tugs at the reader’s consciousness, it challenges you to continue to read it. And yet, although it will no doubt go on to lurk in the deeper recesses of my mind (and comparisons will inevitably be drawn with Donna Tartt’s the Secret History) I struggled to really enjoy it. The control within the book hooked me in with its tenacious tendrils, urging me to read it (which, actually is a tremendous feat by the author!). The characters essentially left me rather cold, rather frustrated with their blithe commitment to the ‘friendship group’ and ultimately the game. And the back and forth between the narrator of now, and the game of then didn’t really coalesce. But I guess if you are fond of games of chance, murky psyches and you are prepared to take the consequences of drawing the Ace of Spades, then this may well be an ideal read for you.
3558095890	This seems to be quite a marmite book - a lot of people either really liked it or absolutely hated it. I'm definitely more in the "really liked it" camp but although it was a gripping read, I can acknowledge it wasn't perfect. Flaws that people mention and my responses to them: - There wasn't enough of "the game" - I agree that there weren't actually many scenes in the book of them fully playing out every part of the game, and nor was the card and dice part explained. However, I think that had the author decided to go into the full detail of all that was involved in this, it would have made tedious reading. Omitting the precise rules and every minor challenge allowed the pace to flow. However, admittedly it also made it seem like anything prior to the "big events" of the story were worthless.- The characters are two dimensional - I think that some characters are far better drawn than others. Jolyon and Mark are quite distinct; Tallest, Middle and Shortest are MEANT to be Unknowns, and although other characters are less clear I think the point is to see how they develop through the dialogue scenes in the book- There's too much sitting around in dorm rooms and not actually doing Game dares - this links with the points above. This is intentional; these dorm room scenes are there to give us more insight into the characters and their reactions to suggestions. There's usually something revelatory about every scene and making it ONLY about the dares would have made it a different type of book, one where you aren't concerned with how it's all mentally affecting the characters. Mark's character is clear to me and it's pretty much ONLY through scenes like these that we glimpse it.- The switching between 3rd person in the past narration and 1st person in the present was confusing - I'm sorry but if you thought this you are an idiot... this was the point of the suspense of the plot. It's a great plot device that you can't tell who the person telling the story in the present day is, and then even when you can it's a totally unreliable narrator. I thought the narration styles were probably actually the main strength of the book.- The final round of the game at the end is anti-climatic - Yes I actually agree on this... but how else could it have gone? It did make sense.- All the characters either over-react to things or under-react - Yes I kind of agree with this, in particular Emilia's over-reaction to what her particular challenge would have been. It's like, mate, what did you think it would be? You're party to the horrible things being set up for other people, what on earth did you THINK they had on you other than this? - All the characters are horrible - I disagree. They're all quite human with different pros and cons to each. There's only really one who I think is truly horrible, the rest just have a nasty streak that pops up in these pressurised situations.Conclusion I really enjoyed the tension which was built through the use of the varying narrative styles. There were some great twists and turns, and even when a twist was predictable, I was still gripped to find out exactly how the event would occur. It's a good thriller, a read that makes you think a little, but is also not completely perfect, which is fine.
3682684689	I barely know where to start with this review. It has been a long time since I've rated a book with only a single star (and I barely even rated it that). I was very intrigued by the premise of Black Chalk--six university students doing a high-end stakes version of Truth or Dare (except only dares were allowed really). I also liked the idea of a secret and shady organization called Game Soc backing the game. I thought it was a cool addition but ultimately falls flat since we never learn anything else about them other than the people running it are rich and bored.Usually I greatly enjoy unreliable narrators because they make the story and its events very interesting, but I just could not come to like Jolyon, or any of the characters for that matter, at all. Every single character was flat and sadly one-note. The rag-tag group of six individuals had almost a Breakfast-Club kind of feel to it: Jolyon as John-a cool and rugged kind of guy, Emilia as Claire-a sweet and smart girl, Dee as Allison-a potential basket-case, Chad as Andrew-an over amped up American, Mike as Brian-someone who is kind of generic, and then Jack is his own category since his one defining trait is that he's an asshole. While these aren't complete comparisons, you get the gist of which characters were which. Unlike the breakfast club characters, there is absolutely zero growth for the characters in Black Chalk--and no one is likable. Against my better judgement, I kept listening to this audiobook because I was hoping that there would be something exciting or unexpected that would happen. Unfortunately it never did get any better and I was left feeling very dissatisfied over paper-thin characters, a mysterious organization that is never fleshed out or explained, and a clunky 14-year time skip that seemed so random and out of place (and I was still wondering why Jolyon's mental condition had worsened so much at the end). So, overall, I do not recommend this book.
3384026380	Black Chalk is good if you're looking for slow-building psychological suspense, complete with dual narratives/timelines and unreliable characters. It's well written, and the plot is compelling enough, but (compared to similar books) I think the execution fell short. There's a really interesting narrative twist about a third of the way in, but unfortunately it was kind of downhill from there. The story is supposed to revolve around a sinister game played between 'friends,' but the actual gameplay is never explained (I still don't know how players won/lost rounds) and we really only see the punishments for losing (and the non-consequences for quitting??). It's not a thriller, despite how it's marketed, and you won't like any of the characters, which makes it hard to root for anyone or care who wins in the end. And the murder, well...I'll just say that the synopsis of this book is as unreliable as the characters.Black Chalk has been suggested as a good comparison read if you enjoyed Donna Tartt's The Secret History, but like many reviewers, I just didn't see it. The character development is shallow and it is not very world-building or atmospheric, which (to me anyway) is what really makes for a great 'dark academia' novel.
1464317971	The author is a puzzles editor by trade, so he's perhaps laid out this confounding enigma for readers to solve: how is it possible for similes and allusions to be so lame across the board, and down-right dysfunctional? Coupled with the fact that it's an order of the tallest magnitude to come up with one's version of Donna Tartt's The Secret History. It's a long way to fall, especially when there is not a single interesting character to care about nor grab a hold of. Disaffected, jaded proletariats at Oxford University in this book are just as annoying as what one might expect the unabashedly posh set to be, just as pretentious on the other extreme. And, I really want my Oxford alum friends to tell me nobody at Oxford speaks so haltingly artfully nor boringly, but I wouldn't wish reading this book on my worst enemies.There's just nothing to sympathize with here. Everything that happens, each character has wrought unto himself. The game in question is stupid. The predictable death is dumb. You don't care by the end. You only wish the book to be over.
1442484225	Good book, the reading was like playing a game of Chess with an average opponent. Sometimes I had no idea what was going to happen next, but then at other times it was easy to spot where the book was going. The beginning was much better than the end. Reminded me of "Lost" great at intrigue but than the resolutions were not as fulfilling as I was hoping for.
1778572609	I almost didn't finish this book. 100 pages in & I was so put off by everything about this that I was ready to mark it DNF. But at about 150 pages the story picked up & the plot kept me guessing & it was a fast paced novel. I devoured the rest of it in a day, as finally the inconsistencies that plagued the beginning of the novel made sense.
4157789606	I’m quite perplexed by the dismal overall rating of this debut novel from Christopher J. Yates. The book gives readers everything it promises them and then some, so why only a 3.22? This is one of the times I’m thankful not to have overly relied on the ratings game. Clearly, as I gave the book a five star rating. My guess? I’ll check after my review (I don’t want the complaints of others to in any way sully my own opinion, so better that way) - but MY guess would be something along the lines of: structure, changing narration/uncertainty, perhaps unlikeable characters (as thought by many, not my own opinion), etc.I found the book to be electrifyingly thrilling, pretty unputdownable as far as that term extends in my circumstances. 3-4 days may seem far from “unputdownable” in others’ eyes, but when you are consumed by multiple, LONG (did I mention dense? No, but quite DENSE) mandatory readings for university, this is perhaps the quickest I can read a 343 page book. The characters may not have been overly likable, but I didn’t find them despicable, either. Their backstories clearly hinted at reasons for their “unlikable” characteristics, such as family issues, not least of which warped their levels of self-esteem so that they always felt, in some sense or another, that they were competing for the title of “most cleverest”, the one quality they had rightfully owned upon their admittance to Pitt. Their own quality that made them outsiders in the larger scheme of the college’s atmosphere, but elite insiders in their own private circle. It’s only natural that once a game developed that tested them on these skills, a game that would inevitably result in psychological destruction, the players would do anything possible to hold that long sought-after crown in their elite group of being “the cleverest” of all the clever members. I wonder just how much of this experience is, in fact, the author’s own. Would be interesting to know just how much this game affected his own life, or if even if affected it at all (or if merely he were picturing worst case scenarios to his own game, and this happened to fit neatly into those imagined scenarios). I really recommend this book for just about anyone that enjoys psychological thrillers, and really, you don’t quite have the foggiest idea of what might transpire, ultimately at the end, until Yates decides it’s time to reveal it all to you. I believe anyone that says differently is either a) flat out lying; or b) now with the benefit of hindsight, is able to feel with more certainty that they had figured everything out quite some time before it all ended. Five stars, a unique and excellent read - I look forward to reading his other novel and hopefully other books he publishes at a later date!
2151866508	The more I think about this story, the lower my opinion goes. I really enjoyed the writing by Christopher J. Yates. He used a mix of 1st person-present time and 3rd person-past time to tell the story. It made the thriller/mystery aspect of this story even stronger, because one of the first big "twists" is that the narrator isn't who you assumed he was. There aren't really chapters to this book and it keeps hopping between past and present. Some may find that confusing but I thought the author did a great job with differentiating between the past voice and present voice. It's the writing that saved this story for me and I'd be very interested in reading more by Mr. Yates. The narrator in the 1st person-present portions of the book is an OCD hermit who relies on his rituals and mnemonic reminders to function each day. It is quickly explained that the narrator was psychologically traumatized from this game that he played 14 years ago with 5 friends during his time at Oxford. The narrator is gearing up for the last and final round in this game 14 years later and uses this book as a diary/confession; the diary portions are about his day-to-day activities as he "trains" himself (i.e. going outside more than once a week). The confession portions are when the book transitions to a 3rd party-past recollection about 6 people who are in their first year at Oxford. They bond due to their shared quality of being non-stereotypical preppy Oxford students (one is American, raised on a pig farm, another is an orphan raised in foster homes, etc.). Two of them quickly become best friends and come up with the idea for a game of consequences. Basically, it's a game of dares that are determined by the group designed to personally humiliate the person receiving the dare. With each round, the dares/consequences get more embarrassing. Each player has to put down a deposit, so their is a monetary interest in doing these dares. The group also pitches their idea to a mysterious society on campus, the Game Soc, who provides $10,000 for the winner of the game. My big issue with the story was the plot and plausibility of the game itself, the consequences and players. The game is never fully explained. The consequences are created by 5 members of the group for the 1 member whose turn it is. But, there are also dice, cards, containers (what?) and different levels of consequences within each round. You can also get multiple consequences depending on the dice and cards. The author describes that there is a strategy with the dice and cards and (somehow) you can leave a round with only 1 minor consequence. But you can also have a round where you get 3 big consequences. And then the consequences increased in severity with each round. So its a game of strategy, luck, and multiple levels of "consequences??" I was so confused as to the nature of the game. I still have no idea how it is played. The author focused more on the consequences that had to be performed. In the beginning, they were small and really dumb. Like one player had to ask her permission to go to the bathroom and poop in front of her class. Why? Just, why? Another had to wear a certain scarf for a week????? Why??? Makes no sense. I started to get a little bit upset with the consequences the players came up with involved hurting other people. I understand the point of the later rounds is to come up with something so awful that the player will not want to perform the consequence, but I didn't like the idea of hurting outside players. For example, one player had to purposely sabotage a friendship by hurting that person and costing them money. Another had to do something that would hurt her family and perhaps irrevocably break her relationship with her dad. Another player had to lead on a gay man who had a crush on that particular heterosexual male (because the person who created the consequence thought he was gay and was trying to out him). I just didn't understand why anyone would think that this is fun or funny. But even with all of the consequences starting to bother me, I still was really into the story. I kept thinking that it is plausible for kids to take things too far and I think the author is sending some sort of message. But then the ending happened, and it's the ending that bothered me the most. I won't get into the ending but it didn't make any sense to me. I really want to read more by Christopher J. Yates, but this book wasn't for me.
3021097963	Black Chalk is a dark psychological thriller surrounding a group of six friends in their first year at Oxford. This group of intellectual, pretentious misfits find each other, develop friendships, and then the game begins. The game was suggested by Chad and made possible by a wealthy, mysterious committee at the university called Game Soc. The friends are to play a game of cards and dice (we never find out how it actually works), and the winners will have to perform dares of varying mental difficulty. The dares are embarrassing, personal, and eventually dangerous. The novel begins many years after the game, from the perspective of one of the friends who is living as a hermit and is struggling with mental illness. He receives a letter. It's time to recommence the game. If that didn't make sense, all I can say is read it! I can't explain more with out ruining the suspense. This novel has a slow start as the setting is drawn and the game develops. Knowing the premise, I actually would have liked more details on each of the dares- only a few were highlighted. Because of this, I did feel that there was an unbalance of detail. It is lacking in character development for the six friends- I was still mixing up two of them in mind until the end. That said, I really enjoyed the last third of this book. The slow build all comes together for a suspenseful, heart wrenching ending that will leave you questioning your friendships, and your own thoughts for that matter! This novel truly shows the competitive nature of friendship, and the extremes to which human beings can go in order to come out on top. This is a very different take on a psychological thriller, and I loved the creativity of the game!
6188933174	Reading the synopsis of this book had me very excited to read it. I am a fan of suspenseful and psychological thrillers but this was not that. It takes so long to even start talking about the game. The game itself is never properly explained. The consequences are psychologically challenging to each individual that is doing it I guess but even at that it didn’t have me captured. The ending was completely underwhelming. I can see where the author attempted adding in some plot twists or revealing information for the reader but it really did not make up for how slow the story unraveled.
3862712731	a fucking masterpiece. the scenery? the characters? the story line? the plot? the plottwist? and dont even let me star on the writing style. i fell in love with this book, it made me life the story and everything felt real. it makes me grief the story even though i just finished. this better become a classic in the future, it’s perfect. it’s a masterpiece.
7823654523	There are no good guys in this book and it takes a bit to realize this. We all want to root for the protagonist but when the tables get turned in this book it’s time to start thinking about who is right and who is wrong. And is there a right or wrong? Or just two sides?Why does one’s personal experience with a situation trump another’s? Is being outgoing and culturally sophisticated better than being shy and hardworking? It’s just a game but it is a game that takes a dark turn and neither ego could step away from it.This book is a good way to describe the negative ways in which ego can destroy relationships. I think it should be required reading for young people.
6674406216	Very weird, but in an intresting way
4399139959	Just a bunch of self-absorbed self-involved university kids who play a game. All the hopes I had for the book just went👎🏻
6503227430	it was…. fine. the story was fine. when i could make sense of which “person” we were talking in, it wasn’t bad. overall a hard read for me. i picked it up and put it down three other times before i finally made it thru.
2307724624	I think I may be warped because this game did not go nearly as far as I assumed it would.
4108602949	4.5 🌟 I had no expectations for this book but it kept me curious the whole time and it really surprised me in the end. Loved it!!!
6903006903	** spoiler alert ** There were things I liked about this book, but as a whole the plot line was choppy and it was hard for me to believe the risk. It felt like a far fetch for someone to ruin their whole life for a stupid game and none of the characters were very empathetic.
7187575110	I wanted to like this book but it's written in such a corny way ... couldn't focus on the story
2382848695	This was included in a Book Riot list of "books to read if you loved The Secret History," but I wish I had spent the time re-reading Tartt's book instead. Though the suspense made this a fine vacation read, I found the prose a bit florid and the characters difficult to believe.
1016594456	** spoiler alert ** When reading through the first few pages, I almost had to stop reading. I've become so accustomed to seeing double quotation marks when reading dialogue, that when it's just an apostrophe, I think it's a thought. Christopher Yates, author of Black Chalk, uses the single quotation mark as he's a British author, and page after page, I had to keep reminding myself that this is the right way in British English. But that wasn't the only immediate thing that made me stumble as a reader. There were no chapters. Instead there were roman numerals numbering each section of text. Sometimes it would be pages without another set, and sometimes it would just be a paragraph. Initially, I didn't know what these accomplished, but I figured out as I read more that it may have ben to help with the time lapses between scenes, as well as the time jumps between the past and the present. Regardless, it still confuses me and I fail to see the point. However, there were many promising things about this novel that I pushed through my personal roadblocks. The concept was one that was truly intriguing and something I haven't really read before. I was curious how the author was going to execute it, as the plot was bound to be complex. Unfortunately, I think it was too complex, even for the author to write. It was just too confusing, with the constant time jumps and the almost manic thoughts and actions of the narrator of the story. For the first half of the book, you think it's one character, and then the narrator himself says he's someone else. We don't really get into the meat of the story until more than half the book is already over, which is something that I thought was strange. The buildup to "The Game" was too much. By the time we figured out what was going on and what really happened, it was over-hyped and not as dramatic or shocking as it should have been. I was disappointed, as the story after this part became rather predictable. It was just a matter of time before certain things happened, and it was easy to see where everything would be falling into place. I liked the relationship between Jolyon and Chad. Jolyon was the leader of the group and turned out to be our narrator, while Chad was taken under Jolyon's wing and shown the ropes of social interaction. Over the course of the novel, the relationship between the two changes, and Chad is slowly becoming the top in the group, and the cracks in Jolyon's mind start to present themselves. The whole story centers around the relationship between these two men, and the other characters are almost just filler. We don't get to see them develop, and even with the scenes they are in, there is almost nothing to them to make them worthwhile. There's no depth, nothing that makes them stand out from the rest of the story. For the first half of the story, we get to see so far inside of Chad's mind, that we automatically assume that he must be the narrator and the changes we see in him aren't that good. He goes from being the quiet, sweet, nice guy to a twisted, sadistic person who doesn't care who he hurts. And as for Jolyon, we see what has become of him after the game and how those little cracks in the beginning have affected his life after the "end" of the first Game. I don't know if this is going to be continued into a series, but the way the story ended was anything but answered. Chad runs off, leaving his family and commitments that he made to "The Game," while we are left with Jolyon still struggling to recover his mind and rejoin society. We don't know what the role of the Game Society was, let alone who they are, and what they want now that the game is over. I feel like as soon as we learned what happened during "The Game" and what it actually was, the story was over. WE don't know what really happened to Jack and Emilia, other than they are married. There's just so much unexplained, which would make sense for a follow-up story, but I feel like we didn't get enough information through the story to warrant wanting to go further in the series.
6188943217	Black Chalk by Christopher J. Yates immerses you in the backdrop of Oxford University, setting the stage where a game among six students starts off all light-hearted but quickly escalates. Things take a turn, and the situation for the group deteriorates fast. The story isn’t just a straight shot; it’s a non-linear trip, flipping from past events to present-day Manhattan. It gets interesting at times while sometimes it gets repetitive and drags. One of them ends up in New York, living like a hermit, caught in OCD-like routines, and trailed by a past that just won’t leave him alone. The real twist? The guy who’s gone off the grid wasn't at all who I was expecting. This twist, hitting about 100 pages in, totally catches you off guard – I think that was my favorite part of the book because the reveal was subtle and not overly melodramatic. I was thinking, 'Really, him?' He seemed the least likely to end up in this state. It leaves you wondering, how did he get here? Now, he's this mix of guilt and 'what-ifs,' which really pumps up the momentum of the story.I also enjoyed the conversations among the six students. They're incredibly engaging and feel so real. It's like you're a fly on the wall, catching every word. This kind of writing just pulls you deeper into their world.The book's pacing is on the slower side, but it's all about gradually building up the suspense. Sure, it might feel a bit slow, especially since it's not a huge book (around 300 pages or so), but it gives you the chance to really get inside the main m characters' head and grasp the insane game the six of them are wrapped up in.The book has this overall fun feel that transports you right back to your college days or any time you've spent in the world of academia.The book touches on friendship, betrayal, and the aftermath of choices made. There's this quote that's not from the book but fits perfectly: "It's an odd feeling, betrayal, isn't it? Because it's never from your enemies." That's the kind of intensity we're dealing with here.But, I've got to point out, there's this bit about a mysterious visitor in the present timeline that just seems too far-fetched for me. It's the kind of thing that nudged me towards giving the book a lower rating. This part, where our hermit guy apparently has no memory of this visitor who keeps popping in and out of his apartment, just doesn't sit right. I mean, it doesn't feel realistic at all. Also, without giving away too many spoilers, how can this visitor be completely unrecognizable simply due to a change in hair color, especially considering this person was such a prominent figure in our hermits past? I mean, come on. To me, it actually felt kind of ridiculous and definitely messed with the story's sense of authenticity.Also, yes, it's slow and builds momentum, but it also feels like it drags a bit. Like, 150 pages in, nearly halfway through, and in the present timeline, he keeps mentioning this big catastrophe that happened during the game, teasing it without giving even a glimpse of what actually happened. Again, I think it drags on too long, becoming repetitive to read how the game ruined him over and over without any insight. I'm not expecting him to spill all his secrets right away, but at least give us readers something to latch onto, some crumbs to keep us motivated to carry on. Feed me. Feed me. Ha. I also found the character Chad annoying, an insufferably jealous bully who acts as a foil to the protagonist. Don't get me wrong, I usually gravitate towards 'villains,' if that's what we can call him, but he was just a straight-up bully. Honestly, out of the six players in the game, I only gravitated towards two characters. They were well-detailed and the most interesting, providing enjoyment whenever they appeared on the page. The rest, however, fell short, seeming one-dimensional and almost as if the author was too lazy to flesh them out intricately. One was just known as the 'pretty,' reluctant player. Another was supposed to be comic relief, but his humor wasn't really effective; he just ended up poking fun at the others, again, seeming like a bully. So, the author could have given us characters that we'd love to hate or at least enjoy, you know?Another thing, while Jolyon's guilt-ridden self is justifiable, and the initial reveal shows that what ended up happening was truly dreadful, and maybe to him as a person, unforgivable (he couldn't forgive himself), I found the actual reveal felt somewhat anticlimactic, even a bit cliché. It seemed predictable, perhaps because I've read The Secret History; in many ways, this book felt like a less mature young sibling version of it. I was expecting something darker, something more gripping. And what does that say about me? Well, that's another story. Let's not delve too deep into that. (I'll discuss in therapy, ha!)And the final act of the book, while intended to be a dramatic climax, felt unrealistic and implausible to me, like really all this happened (cue villainess monologue) It was perhaps my least favorite part of the book, especially after all the build-up. The resolution didn't feel cathartic. I understand that this might also be unsatisfying for others due to the ambiguity. Readers who prefer more concrete resolutions could find this approach less satisfying. Additionally, subjective expectations play a role, as the expectation of the climax might not be met for some especially with all the buildup your expectations tend to sky rocket. But, this depends on the individual reader. Personally, I think the story ended as well as it could have, given the circumstances. It concluded appropriately, given the limited leeway it had, direction and narrative wise. But anyway look, here’s the gist: If you're just getting your feet wet in the dark academia scene, Black Chalk is a solid starting point. It's the ideal length for those of us who have a bit of 'big book fear' and aren’t quite ready to dive into a massive tome. Perfect for easing into the genre without feeling overwhelmed.It's a solid read. It's packed with a twist here and there, some dialogues that hit the mark, and a plot that keeps you guessing at times. Sure, there are a few moments that might make you go 'huh?' or seem a tad ridiculous with some plot twists and character decisions appearing somewhat over-the-top or implausible, lending a slightly ridiculous feel to certain parts of the narrative. And I'll be honest, I wouldn’t have ever read Black Chalk if it hadn’t been from friend of my heart gifting it to me. So, the moral of the story is: sometimes it’s worth it to go in blind and read books randomly; it can be quite a fun experience. The premise might not be super original, but it had its thrilling moments. The book was enjoyable, but I expected something darker, with higher stakes. Go ahead, read 'Black Chalk', have fun with it. But if you’re after the whole dark academia vibe, full of intrigue and suspense, then 'The Secret History' is the real deal, the original dark academia manifesto. I'll always recommended and say read The Secret History instead. Bottom line, the book was a bit of a mixed bag – it fell flat in some areas but excelled in others. It left me feeling somewhat indifferent. Sure, I enjoyed the atmosphere and it piqued my curiosity, enough to keep me going, but I’m sticking with a solid 3.5 stars. The book has its moments but doesn’t consistently deliver across the board. Either way, I won't look back in regret; it was certainly an experience. Last but not least, thank you for this gift, friend of my heart. FIN.
850914791	I would like to thank the publisher through Netgalley for my advanced reader's edition of Black Chalk, by Christopher J. Yates. Before reading this debut novel, I had seen it compared to the cult-classic "The Secret History," as well as seen reviews saying it was good, but not brilliant. So I started the novel with the hope that it would be an entertaining psychological chiller, as well as capturing the wonderful, gothic world in an elite British college.. Black Chalk did not fulfill my expectations. To put it succinctly, I was bored through most of the novel, which seemed composed of a tangled web of repetitive, confused thoughts shared with us by our drug-addled narrator. The premise of the novel, that six friends at college in Oxford invent a game with psychological consequences for the losers, seemed initially interesting. However, in actuality, the game as played seemed immature and superficial. Rather than creating an atmosphere of gothic suspense that I could really sink my teeth into, the game that the six friends created reminded me of the kind of dares that a fraternity would force upon their initiates. Furthermore, the motivations of the characters were convoluted. The narrator told us over and over how psychologically damaging this game was to him and his friends, but I felt thoroughly unconvinced that anything subversive or complex was going on. I was unable to suspend disbelief or care about any of the characters. Throughout the novel, there were multiple hints at upcoming reveals, but for the most part, none of this panned out in a satisfying way. The writing style in Black Chalk also left something to be desired. As a reader, I personally really enjoy novels with a strong sense of place, and I think that Black Chalk is the type of novel that could have benefited from more description. Instead, the focus was mainly on thoughts and dialogue. And as a slight aside, the poetry written by one of the characters, who was supposed to be talented, made me cringe. Finally, I was shocked by how abruptly the novel ended. As I read the last sentence in a chapter, I thought, "that was weak...surely this can't be the end of the novel," but in fact, it was. I wanted Black Chalk to be enjoyable, to be dark, psychological, and creepy. Unfortunately, it left me just as confused as the narrator, and just as motivated as he was to escape from the Game.
1518720163	** spoiler alert ** I heard the review on NPR, and was sold on the concept. What kind of shenanigans can a bunch of college kids get into where one of them ends up dead and another one is so scarred he never goes outdoors? I really wanted to find out more. But in reality, this book didn't do it for me. I guessed most of the twists early on. And maybe it was a British thing that I don't understand, but some of the dares that made the players quit didn't seem that bad.For instance: the dare that made Jack quit. Frankly, Jolyon's dare of going to a football match and loudly and offensively rooting against the home team is a good way to get yourself killed, and seemed much worse than Jack's dare of buddying up to the insufferable gay guy that he really doesn't like. Jack wasn't really established as homophobic or anything so his response to that series of dares didn't make a lot of sense.And the one that made Chad finally quit...go visit your parents?? That was a letdown. I mean, it sounds like the fight he had with his dad was pretty bad, but his mom really wanted to see him, and the dare wasn't that he had to apologize or beg for his dad's forgiveness, or stay for a week. Just that he had to drive a couple hours and visit them. It was that vs. being on the run for life and he wouldn't do it? That was anti-climatic. Interesting premise, but needed better development. I'm not really sure why that NPR reviewer was so enthralled.Also: if Dee wasn't in on Chad swiping her poetry book from Jolyon's apartment at the end, why was she still alive?
1360491516	Let's just go ahead and stop comparing books to The Secret History. Tartt's book is utterly exceptional, and I have yet to read a single book that is anywhere near as good. That being said, once you stop trying to make comparisons, Black Chalk is an intriguing page-turner that kept me up past 2am.The story takes place at Oxford University in the 90's. Six freshmen friends decide to play a psychological game. Each of them puts a thousand pounds into a pot, then enlist the help of a secret society to run the game, the members of which add ten thousand dollars of their own money to make it interesting. The rules are simple. If you lose a round you have to carry out a series of consequences, each becoming more degrading as the game continues. You can refuse a consequence, but you lose your money and are out of the game. The last person standing gets the entire pot.All six of the players are incredibly tight, but also fiercely competitive. None of them have any idea what kind of impact the game will have on their lives, and quite expectedly things end up very bad for all of them.I enjoyed this book quite a bit, and found it rather surprising and unpredictable. There are a few issues with the plot, but nothing that is so glaring it ruins the story. I recommend this to anyone who likes a good mystery.
861433421	Charismatic Jolyon! Shy, recalcitrant Chad! Assorted other college students! Please tell me more about the Game that you play with each other that basically amounts to mind-fucking each other in increasingly heinous ways. But as far as the rest of the story regarding the narrator with obsessive-compulsive tendencies who may or may not have an unauthorized someone living in/breaking into his house, I"m not terribly interested. (view spoiler)[I am tearing my hair out over the fact that even after all of the dark, ominous hints about what Game Soc is going to do to the loser of the Game, why oh why wouldn't Chad just bite the bullet & go see his family so he could possibly win? I mean, his dad is a big asshole who never believed in him as a child, and he also has Münchausen syndrome & is willing to fake terminal skin cancer, so sure, he isn't someone you’d want to spend a lot of time with. But if I'm expected to believe that Game Soc is going to do something so horrific to the point where Jolyon takes it for granted that Chad's just never going to be seen again, then for pete’s sake, get over it & just go see your folks. (hide spoiler)]
1646660141	zes eerstejaarsstudenten spelen een aanvankelijk leuk en onschuldig spel....14 jaar later komen de overblijvers samen om de laatste ronde te spelen. "zwart krijt" is, zo lijkt het, een dagboek geschreven door Jolyon. Hij vertelt wat er gebeurt is in het verleden en wat er nu, 14j later, gebeurt. In het begin is het niet meteen duidelijk wie het dagboek schrijft, je wordt meerdere malen op het verkeerde been gezet. Eenmaal duidelijk blijkt dat het toch niet allemaal is wat het lijkt.Het boek is geschreven met een prachtig taalgebruik en een fijne woordkeuze; een sterk verhaal en zeer goed uitgewerkte karakters. Verrassende en geloofwaardige ontknoping. Het is een boek dat je moet, maar vooral wilt lezen want je wilt weten hoe het afloopt ;-) kortom: het lezen meer dan waard
2268658508	I didn't like the chapter formatting. Seems like a minor complaint, but read the book you'll see what I mean. Ok change that, I was uncomfortable with the chapter formatting. Well at first I was uncomfortable with the chapter formatting, but then as the story progressed so did my positive feelings concerning the chapter format. Were these feelings elevated by the unexpected feeling of accomplishment I experienced when I sussed out the Arabic numeral equivalent for CDXCIX thereby increased my appreciation? It's questions like that that keep me up at night.But I digress. This was a satisfying story. Glad I read it.
892943555	I loved Black Chalk! It reminded me a little bit of another of my favs, Dominance by Will Lavender, which deals with the same sort of plot where a secret game between students goes more than awry and they meet up in later years to hash it all out. They are definitely enough different that I highly recommend both books! Black Chalk had me eagerly turning the pages hungry for more and then when we get to the point where we know Jolyon's situation in the present..I just couldn't imagine how he fell so far! I love books that go back and forth through time so all is revealed but the suspense is there!
751067045	Six students.First year in Oxford University, One game and 10,000$. All six were looking forward for a new year, different people and an exciting experience. But what they never knew was that you should be aware of what you wish for.They get involved in a game of childish consequences organized by a mysterious group called: Game Soc. Unfortunately, it ends up in a horrifying way that was never imagined. This book was a debut for Christopher J.Yates. An exciting physiological thriller which makes you feel personally involved in the plot. Each character had a unique personality and Yates presented it well.
1455997338	I'm really not sure what the hell to write about this book. It was one of the most fun, most twisty and sick books I'd read in a long time. I am a dead sucker for campus novels, and this one hit the spot. I read it in a week and would recommend to anyone heading on a vacation looking for something a little mysterious and a little dark. And yet, I can't help but feel that it didn't quite land. At least not how I wanted it to. All of which is to say that I think Yates has some master work lurking inside him, and I'm excited to read it someday soon.
1328645385	I just had a blast with this. It takes some of the best traits of stories like The Secret History, Gone Girl, The Game, and stirs them all up into a speedball of thrill. This is a smart, gripping novel that not only delivers on plot but brings along memorable and genuine characters to boot. With every reveal, I was pulled deeper into the story and nearly every single one paid off with dividends. Christopher J. Yates has pulled off a masterful debut. More on 7/29:
2855850605	It's probably a good thing I started on Yates with Grist Mill Road. Where that book was exciting, Black Chalk moved too slowly. It does pick up in the final hundred pages, luckily, but it's a bit difficult getting to that point. I feel like this story would have done much better as a novella instead; and yet I would still like to see a sequel of sorts to learn more about Game Soc. Yates has hinted at a grand world there, one that he will hopefully explore further down the road.
1399471348	Added this to my to read list after member of Facebook book Club either recommended it or added as their best read and Absolutely loved this book! Easily one of the best I've read. Lots of twists, kept me on edge Struggled to put it down. ONLY thing I wasn't sure about was the lack of chapters per say but didn't notice after a while. Fantastic read, recommend to anyone!! x
1405882905	Wat was je goed, en hoe kan een spel zoveel invloed hebben op je keuzes die maakt. Ondanks de stukjes tussendoor hoe het nu was waren vooral eerste instantie verwarrend, wat had de toekomst weer te maken met het verleden?.Uiteindelijk zoals in begin staat.Vetrouw nooit de schrijver.Vetrouw het verhaal. Helemaal meegesleept met het verhaal en de hoofdpersoon, en wat een einde ook.
1440509434	Fantastic and fun, even if the fun's on the morbid side. Ok, more so, because the fun's on the morbid side.
