4250088009	I was duped. This book is not it. What are y'all talking about?Why is anyone in love with Jessica? What has this toxic enneagram 3 motherf*cker ever done in her life to make someone think she's got emotional depth? Men and women be falling for her and I'm over like "y'all all need to sort out your priorities cause it's embarrassing tbh". I'm actually confused why any of them are friends. Like, Mint and Frankie I can understand. But Jack and Coop? In what world would they gravitate toward a football player? I don't see it. Also, Courtney being frenemies with them was so confusing. Like, they put up with her and act like they want her around but then also think she's a huge b*tch (because she IS) and like secretly hate her. So why hang out with her? They don't have to. She has other friends. I'm confused.There is a plot twist I called in chapter 2 and was so annoyed when it was revealed because DUH. Like 🤦🏻‍♀️🤦🏻‍♀️🤦🏻‍♀️Was I supposed to care about Heather's death? She was the least talked about character even though we had an insane amount of flashbacks where she was alive. She barely spoke. We learned next to nothing about her personality or relationship with the group. So not only did I not understand why she was friends with them but I also didn't care about her as a character so I wasn't motivated to care about who killed her or understand why. There were points where I would forget that she was the one who ends up dead. The book was easy to read and I sped through it. So I felt good about that. But I wouldn't read it again or recommend it to anyone.
5891771823	3🌟This book was super enthralling at first, but then fell flat for me. Insufferable friend group who then starts to harbor secrets and dirt on each other. Also did not like the main character but I did enjoy the storyline and the twists.
4306642774	my favourite thriller of the yearreading vlog https://youtu.be/OOwrX15Ig0Q
3948796107	It seems like so many of my favorite books share the same release day! Happy book birthday to this stunning, smart thriller! 🥳📚This book is absolutely genius—outstandingly entertaining, heart-pounding, and a far better mash-up of The Breakfast Club and Pretty Little Liars than the One of Us Is Lying series!You might ask, why is this book so much better? My answer: the character development is mind-blowing—surprisingly honest and deeply layered. The pacing is well-balanced and intriguing. It’s haunting.I found this book bolder, smarter, more shocking, and way more enjoyable!The East House Seven characters are a bunch of liars, cheaters, stalkers, drug dealers, and drug addicts. Their strong friendship is built on lies, betrayal, and rivalry. But who cares? They’re legends—the infamous group of Duquette University!Another thing I loved about this book is how the author expertly drops bombshells, delivering sucker punches that come out of nowhere. And the deliciously fiery ending sealed the deal. I loved the wild, action-packed, twisty, whodunnit premise and devoured it in one sitting!The promising premise centers around a 10th-anniversary reunion of university students, which also serves as the reason to drag them back to the scene of Heather’s brutal murder—stabbed 17 times with a pair of scissors in her dorm room (I’m still conflicted about the book’s title, given that the murder weapon isn’t a knife but scissors!).Her brother Eric is determined to find the real killer. So, their reunion turns into a murder investigation, with one of them being the murderer. Sooner or later, all the secrets they’ve been hiding are about to be revealed, changing the entire dynamic of their relationships. Nothing is as it seems.The main character, Jessica Miller, is one of the best portrayals of a flawed, insecure woman trying too hard to steal the spotlight, terrified of being a nobody. She’s self-centered, ambitious, broken, an overachiever, competitive, and truly self-destructive, even showing sociopathic tendencies.And yet, I connected with her. Even though you hate her, you can’t help but feel sorry for her. You want to shake some sense into her, but her wasted childhood and warped moral compass keep her from seeing her true purpose. Her father’s life goals have replaced her own dreams.Coop, my favorite character, reminds me of Judd Nelson’s bad-boy character John Bender from The Breakfast Club. He’s a drug dealer from poverty, smart, snarky, and charismatic. He sees Jess’s true face from the beginning and is the only one who truly accepts her. In my opinion, his sweet fiancée Caro was too lighthearted for his inner darkness.Other characters include star athlete Frankie, brainy Jess (and our victim Heather), and golden boy Mint, who was Jess’s longtime boyfriend but left her for social media influencer princess Courtney. Although Courtney isn’t part of the East House Seven, she’s involved in the murder investigation due to her marriage to Mint. Then there’s sweet, social, and loyal Caro, Coop’s fiancée, and shy, lovely Jack, Heather’s former boyfriend, who was initially accused of killing her. But Eric knows Jack wasn’t the murderer, so he’s not involved in the investigation.So, who killed Heather? What dirty secrets are the East House Seven hiding from each other?This is a gripping, unputdownable read, perfect for lounging on your couch, munching on greasy popcorn, and enjoying each suspenseful chapter.I loved the smart conclusion and the back-and-forth between different timelines, which provided just enough clues about the characters’ motives and perspectives. The last two flashbacks—Jess’s birthday party with her family and her conversation with Heather about where they see themselves ten years later—were especially powerful and shook me to the core.I’ve said enough already! I’m giving this book five blazing stars! I can’t wait to read more from this author—they did an amazing job!Special thanks to NetGalley and Sourcebooks Landmark for sharing this amazing digital review copy with me in exchange for my honest opinions.This revision enhances the flow and clarity of your thoughts while preserving your enthusiastic voice.
5384867339	3.75 stars! I love how every single character was suspicious/a suspect at different points. Lots of great info reveals and the twist/the whole ending really got me 😳 I also thought the characters were superrr interesting. As much as this book is a mystery/thriller, it also felt like equal parts a character study book. A lot of cool discussion and themes surrounding the good and bad in all of us.The only reason I wouldn't rate it higher is that because the characters were all very flaxed characters, I found myself struggling to root for any of them. This happens to me a lot with mystery/thrillers. I feel like I'm reading a really interesting story but I miss that feeling of being in the story. I think that comes from not having a relatable or super likeable character for me.
3943199640	"What is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?"-Mary OliverWell, consider me impressed. It's been ages since a psychological suspense novel has blown me away, but that's exactly what In My Dreams I Hold a Knife has done. This is definitely a character driven story, but don't let that convince you that it's slow or boring. Between the alternating timelines and POVs, things are kept mysterious until the moment the author chooses to reveal all that happened on that fateful day during the East House 7's final year of college. When I wasn't reading this book, I was thinking about it, and felt equally invested in the character back stories and daily interactions as I was in Heather's death. Part murder mystery, part coming of age, these flawed (and somewhat unlikable characters) will challenge you in the best way possible, and perhaps convince you to feel for them just a bit by the end? I cannot wait to discuss this one with more readers, and I believe it will be in my Top Ten Reads of 2021 wrap-up as well. Highly recommended to other thriller readers who may be feeling jaded towards the genre like I was. *Many thanks to the publisher and Kaye Publicity for my review copy.
3945542678	this book is fascinating and mysterious in all the same ways that people who seem untouchable are. but what those on the outside dont see is the narcissism, ambition, jealousy, desire, and rage.this story thrillingly captures those exact imperfections the untouchable people desperately try to hide. and us readers on the outside get to see just how destructive false pretences can really be. utterly riveting, dark academia at its best, and easily a new favourite. a massive thanks to sourcebooks landmark for the ARC!!↠ 5 stars
4288243771	melodramatic, silly, but ultimately fun. i have NO clue how i'd rate this
4155127603	One of my favorite thrillers of the year!!!! All of the characters are so fleshed out and it was such a great mystery trying to figure out what actually happened in the past. I loved the writing style with the jumping back and forth in time, and I love that it’s mostly told in Jessica’s POV but we also get singular chapters from some of the other characters. I love that Jess is a very morally gray character and she’s super flawed and hard to root for at times, it made her such an interesting protagonist. I also was actually a huge fan of the love triangle that was happening 😅 it’s been a while since I’ve read an interesting love triangle. I am amazed that this is a debut novel, the attention to detail is incredible and the writing is absolutely gorgeous, some of the scene toward the end nearly had me in tears??? I will most definitely be picking up everything this author writes in the future. Of you’re into books with a dark academia setting and a kick ass mystery, read this book NOW 😍I also listened to this playlist of dark academia music while I read the book and it was LIFE CHANGING: https://youtu.be/uQpmIm4I1dwTaylor Swift songs that remind me of this book:•right where you left me•don’t you •i did something bad•this is why we can’t have nice things •bad blood•look what you made me do Reading vlog with more thoughts: https://youtu.be/v0v5yTpWtig
4190526897	No. I am stunned that there’s so many people saying this is one of the best thrillers of the year. I’m definitely an outlier on this. The characters in this book were so immature for being 32 years old. I don’t need to like the characters in order to like the book, but even the story itself wasn’t good. There weren’t the twists and turns I was expecting. They were just a bunch of messed up people. The killer was no surprise. I don’t know what I’m missing. That’s the beauty of reading though, we all have different ideas & things we see differently. I’m glad other people enjoyed this but I personally found it very lacking.
4085681425	officially my all-time favorite thriller
4418085565	Basically a bunch of rich kids who peaked in college return to their ten-year reunion to word vomit all of their deepest darkest secrets
4468814626	Damn this book. I was going into this with high expectations but didn't expect to love it with all of these horrible characters but I did. I really, really loved it.
4054745967	This dark academia book is everything I’ve been looking for since reading The Secret History. Six friends return to their university for their ten year college reunion. They used to be known as the East House Seven until one of them was brutally murdered. Before the murder, they were inseparable. Now they barely know each other. Jessica Miller has always been ambitious and she returns to Duquette University determined to amaze everyone with her success. She’s got the perfect job, perfect looks, perfect everything, and she’s sure everyone will be awed by her perfectness. She’s put her life back together since her best friend, Heather was murdered and Jack, one of the East House Seven was accused of the crime. The cops couldn’t find enough evidence to prove he killed her, so charges were eventually dropped. But not everyone has moved on from the murder, someone has been compiling evidence long after the police have given up on the case. And they plan to force a confession from the killer and to reveal everyone’s secrets. This dark campus tale is told in dual timelines and is taut as a bowstring. It really delves deep into how far one would go to achieve everything they have ever wanted. Ashley Winstead excellently shows the dark side of ambition, obsession and love. The characters were so well-developed, their heart’s desires and flaws were laid bare for all to see. I wanted to reread this book as soon as I finished. That feeling almost never happens these days. I could not put this book down and resented when I had to; this book is that good. And that ending! Wow! For a second I wasn’t sure how I felt about it, but then I thought how it made sense with the breadcrumbs that were scattered throughout. I loved it. Obviously.I think I saw that the author has another book coming out next year. I can’t wait to read that one. Thanks to Netgalley and HarperCollins Canada for the digital arc in exchange for my honest opinions.
3725341947	Solidly written fast-paced mystery! Definitely had shades of The Girls Are All So Nice Here with the reunion theme and something terrible happening while they were at school. I felt like this novel did more justice to the theme and kept me more intrigued and entertained. This is the story of seven people who meet in college and by their senior year, one has been brutally murdered and another accused of the crime, yet he was let go due to lack of evidence. They all gather back at the prestigious Duquette University for their ten year Homecoming reunion, and secrets hidden begin to come to light. Told mostly from the point-of-view of Jessica, but also alternating between the others in the past and the present, everything begins to spiral and long-covered secrets are revealed.I was invested in the story throughout even though I really didn't like any of the characters. They all had some twisted motivations and dark things they are hiding. At one point or another I suspected pretty much everyone, so the ultimate revelation definitely came as a surprise to me. One minor quibble I had were the names. For heaven's sake, there are millions of choices for names out there, why oh why name characters with nearly the same names? Caro, Coop, Courtney, and even a Charlie has a role. But in a group of eight people who hang out, to have three of them with such similar names is dumb. Take pity on us poor readers who need to keep characters straight in our heads!Overall, I plowed through this one pretty quickly and even though the characters are unlikable, I was still curious to know the ultimate outcome and enjoyed this twisted college reunion.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.
4794606371	this was underwhelming really, i kinda didn’t care for who it was or the character honestly. everyone says how messy this book was but this book wasn’t messy enough in my opinion. everyone’s scandals were weak. maybe i watch too many teen dramas idk, her romance book had me gasping more than this. i read thrillers for real life gasping reveals and this along with most of the thrillers i read just didn’t make the cut. didn’t care about this friend group or their wack ass drama really. also heather being the one that died was lame it should’ve caro, she had a lot more personality and was the reason they came together. at one point i forgot heather was the one that died and when they mentioned her i was like “WHO??” i like ashley winstead but maybe i need to only read her romance novels because what the fuck was that? why is this book so hyped? the reveal wasn’t even good! what are y’all reading that i am not?
4317099066	Can you feel nostalgic over something you've never experienced?Walking across the college campus, having fun with your friends, falling in love, making mistakes, no responsibility. Feeling young. Feeling free.In My Dreams I Hold a Knife is whatever you're looking for: a mystery, broken hearts, very deep secrets and unbearable truths. Not everyone will redeem themselves, not everyone will reveal their secrets. Jessica, Heather, Jack, Mint, Coop, Frankie and Caro. The East House Seven vs the rest of the world.They met the first week of college and they promised to be friends forever. To do something great with their wild and precious lives. And they would have done that if secrets wouldn't tear them apart. If one of them wouldn't murder another one.Ashley Winstead narrates the story from now and then, from the point of view of Jessica and from who we need to hear. Page after page you get lost in the college atmosphere, in its parties and ceremonies, until everything is over, the truth is revealed and there's nothing more to read. It's an addictive story, dark academia at its best, but also it’ll leave you with a shadow of nostalgia for something that happened but it's now over.For something it could have been but now it's too late.↠ 5 stars
3724844268	“Spend a little more time trying to make something of yourself and a little less time trying to impress people” - Principal Vernon, “The Breakfast Club”Meet the infamous East House Seven, Jessica, Mint, Coop, Caro, Jack, Frankie, and Heather. The Duquette University best friends reunite for Homecoming on campus ten years after graduation. However, one of them didn’t make it. Heather was murdered Senior year by one of the seven friends. Heather’s brother, Eric, is determined to find out which one. All of them are hiding secrets from that fateful night. Who murdered Heather?This book can best be described as every John Hughes movie wrapped into one. Winstead actually references a scene directly from Sixteen Candles and re-enacts another. One character is a jock, another a nerd, a spoiled rich girl, a girl from a religious family, a rebel etc. Perfect, you say? While I am a massive John Hughes fan and have seen all of his movies a million times, this thriller came up slightly short for me. The writing leans very YA and I had a difficult time connecting with some of the characters. I recently read and loved The Girls are All So Nice Here, which contains a similar plot and is stellar in its execution. Therefore, I found it difficult not to compare the two.The story moves very slowly, but does contain lots of twists and turns. However, some didn’t feel realistic and others went a little too far. Kudos to Winstead, as it is difficult to see where the plot is headed before it actually goes there. Once it does, the pieces fall into place. Overall, this is a good debut thriller, and I would be willing to read more from this author. 3.5/5 starsThank you to Edelweiss and Sourcebooks for the ARC of In My Dreams I Hold a Knife in exchange for an honest review.
4394967005	I enjoyed every page of this outstanding book! Absolutely loved it!I'm a fan of mysteries set in college and I like troubled narrators. This one was a fast read, a real page-turner. I found everything I crave in a thriller (multiple POV, two timelines and a clever plot) AND the characters were well-developped. At a certain point, I forgot there was a murder to solve, I was just enjoying the characters dynamics. There was even a love story (not taking too much place, but just enough to add some romantic tension). It's definitely going to be in my 2022 top reads! 4.75 stars (because of two things in the last pages, I just can't say it was perfect and give it 5 stars)
3948465561	In My Dreams I Hold a Knife was the perfect novel for me to read last week, and I highly recommend it to my fellow thriller & mystery fans out there. If you like slow-simmering academia murder mysteries, then this is the book for you! In a nutshell, this is about a college reunion that takes a rather dark and twisted turn as a group of six friends are forced to reckon with their involvement in, and contribution to, the now 10-year-old unsolved murder of one of their own…talk about suspense at its absolute best! The mystery elements were layered, making this that much more enticing to me. This was not only deliciously suspenseful but it was just a blast to read. At times, this was reminiscent of the old '80s classic, Clue, and at other times it read quite similar to L. E. Flynn's The Girls Are All So Nice Here, which I rather enjoyed! Jessica Miller was our ‘protagonist’ in this story; however, it did provide perspectives for each member of the East House Seven, in addition to dual timelines as the murder mystery slowly unraveled. As I got closer to the climax, I caught myself biting my nails, tapping my foot feverishly in anticipation. To say I had no idea who the actual killer was would be a complete understatement! At one point I suspected each of the six friends, and that is exactly how I want my thrillers to play out! The character development was superb, as I found myself loving as well as loathing several characters. Talk about a group of incredibly individually flawed, witty, entitled, incestuous nut jobs! The different timelines and perspectives impressively illustrated exactly why these characters were as 'effed up' as they were, making the characters even that much more authentic! Goodness, did a few of these characters have traumatic childhoods! In addition to my love/hate relationship with the characters, I was incredibly impressed by how atmospheric this novel was. I very easily visualized walking the grounds of Duquette University, and even found myself battling a deep sense of nostalgia for the beginning of my college days at a similar institution – very well done Winstead! The combination of riveting characters, roller coaster plot twists and vivid campus setting made for quite the impressive read! Now that I've had some time to reflect on it, I can honestly, and confidently say this novel will very likely be one of my top reads for 2021, and with the number of thrillers I read, that’s saying quite a bit! I’m officially a fan of this author and cannot wait to read her next scintillating release!!
4074235750	I'm DNFing this one because I did not enjoy the writing style (too cliché) or the usual cast of college elite characters. I found myself flipping over quite a few pages. Some passages seemed never ending and did not hold my interest.See JaymeO's excellent review for some of the reasons I found this story derivative and unoriginal:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I also recommend Carol Walsh's review as well:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Also, the plot is driven by convenient memory gaps that stretched my credulity. The whole thing went on for far too long and the heroine's back and forth relationships with the main characters in this story (sorry, forgot all of their names already!) started grating on my nerves.) I have no idea why the men in this story were so enthralled by Jessica. She truly was a narcissist. All her self-sacrifice at the end was too little, too late for me.
4402535414	ɪɴ ᴍʏ ᴅʀᴇᴀᴍs ɪ ʜᴏʟᴅ ᴀ ᴋɴɪғᴇᴀsʜʟᴇʏ ᴡɪɴsᴛᴇᴀᴅᴛʜʀɪʟʟᴇʀᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 5★ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪғ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ:⚛︎ ǫᴜɪᴄᴋ, ғᴀsᴛ ᴘᴀᴄᴇᴅ ᴛʜʀɪʟʟᴇʀs⚛︎ ʟᴏᴄᴋᴇᴅ ᴅᴏᴏʀ ᴍʏsᴛᴇʀɪᴇs⚛︎ ᴅᴜᴀʟ ᴛɪᴍᴇʟɪɴᴇs⚛︎ ʀᴏᴍᴀɴᴄᴇ sᴜʙᴘʟᴏᴛs ⚛︎ ᴄᴏʟʟᴇɢᴇ ᴄᴀᴍᴘᴜs sᴇᴛᴛɪɴɢssʏɴᴏᴘsɪs: 10 ʏᴇᴀʀs ᴀғᴛᴇʀ ᴏɴᴇ ᴏғ ᴛʜᴇɪʀ ғʀɪᴇɴᴅs ɪs ʙʀᴜᴛᴀʟʟʏ ᴍᴜʀᴅᴇʀᴇᴅ ᴏɴ ᴄᴀᴍᴘᴜs, ᴛʜᴇ ʀᴇᴍᴀɪɴɪɴɢ sɪx ᴍᴇᴍʙᴇʀs ᴏғ ᴛʜᴇ ᴇᴀsᴛ ʜᴏᴜsᴇ sᴇᴠᴇɴ ʀᴇᴛᴜʀɴ ᴛᴏ ᴄᴀᴍᴘᴜs ғᴏʀ ʜᴏᴍᴇᴄᴏᴍɪɴɢ. ʙᴜᴛ ᴡʜᴀᴛ sᴛᴀʀᴛs ᴀs ᴀ ʀᴇᴜɴɪᴏɴ, ǫᴜɪᴄᴋʟʏ ʙᴇᴄᴏᴍᴇs ᴀ ᴡʜᴏᴅᴜɴɴɪᴛ, ᴡʜᴇɴ ᴛʜᴇ ᴠɪᴄᴛɪᴍs ʙʀᴏᴛʜᴇʀ ᴀʟsᴏ ʀᴇᴛᴜʀɴs ʜᴇʟʟ ʙᴇɴᴛ ᴏɴ ғɪɢᴜʀɪɴɢ ᴏᴜᴛ ᴡʜᴏ ᴋɪʟʟᴇᴅ ʜɪs sɪsᴛᴇʀ.ᴛʜᴏᴜɢʜᴛs: ɪ ᴀᴍ ǫᴜɪᴄᴋʟʏ ʙᴇᴄᴏᴍɪɴɢ ᴀɴ ᴀsʜʟᴇʏ ᴡɪɴsᴛᴇᴀᴅ ғᴀɴ. ᴜɴʟɪᴋᴇ ᴍᴏsᴛ, ɪ ʀᴇᴀᴅ ʜᴇʀ ʀᴇᴄᴇɴᴛʟʏ ʀᴇʟᴇᴀsᴇᴅ ʀᴏᴍᴀɴᴄᴇ ғɪʀsᴛ ᴀɴᴅ ᴡᴀs ɢᴏɪɴɢ ɪɴᴛᴏ "ɪɴ ᴍʏ ᴅʀᴇᴀᴍs ɪ ʜᴏʟᴅ ᴀ ᴋɴɪғᴇ" ᴋɴᴏᴡɪɴɢ ʜᴇʀ ᴍᴏʀᴇ ᴀs ᴀ ʀᴏᴍᴀɴᴄᴇ ᴀᴜᴛʜᴏʀ. ɪᴛ ᴛᴏᴏᴋ ᴀ ᴘᴀɢᴇ ᴛᴏ ʀᴇᴀʟɪᴢᴇ ᴛʜᴀᴛ sʜᴇ ɪs ᴄʟᴇᴀʀʟʏ ᴀ ᴘʜᴇɴᴏᴍᴇɴᴀʟ ᴀᴜᴛʜᴏʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ ᴛʜᴇ ᴜɴɪǫᴜᴇ ᴀʙɪʟɪᴛʏ ᴛᴏ ᴡʀɪᴛᴇ ʙᴏᴛʜ ᴇǫᴜᴀʟʟʏ ᴡᴇʟʟ. ᴍʏ ᴇᴍᴏᴛɪᴏɴᴀʟ ɪɴᴠᴇsᴛᴍᴇɴᴛ ɪɴ ᴛʜᴇsᴇ ᴄʜᴀʀᴀᴄᴛᴇʀs ᴡᴀs ɪɴᴛᴇɴsᴇ ᴀɴᴅ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ᴀʟᴍᴏsᴛ ɴᴇᴠᴇʀ ʜᴀᴘᴘᴇɴs ᴛᴏ ᴍᴇ ᴡɪᴛʜ ᴛʜʀɪʟʟᴇʀs. ᴡɪɴsᴛᴇᴀᴅ's ᴀʙɪʟɪᴛʏ ᴛᴏ ᴅᴇᴠᴇʟᴏᴘ ʜᴇʀ ᴄʜᴀʀᴀᴄᴛᴇʀs ɪɴ sᴜᴄʜ ᴀ ᴍᴜʟᴛɪᴅɪᴍᴇɴsɪᴏɴᴀʟ ᴀɴᴅ ᴛʜᴏᴜɢʜᴛғᴜʟ ᴡᴀʏ, ᴇɴᴀʙʟᴇs ʏᴏᴜ ᴛᴏ ᴄᴀʀᴇ ᴀʙᴏᴜᴛ ᴇᴠᴇɴ ᴛʜᴇ ᴍᴏsᴛ ᴍᴏʀᴀʟʟʏ ɢʀᴇʏ ᴏғ ᴛʜᴇ ʙᴜɴᴄʜ. ᴛʜᴇ ᴘʟᴏᴛʟɪɴᴇ ɴᴇᴠᴇʀ ғᴇʟᴛ ᴘʀᴇᴅɪᴄᴛᴀʙʟᴇ ᴛᴏ ᴍᴇ, ᴀɴᴅ ᴛʜᴇʀᴇ ᴡᴇʀᴇ sᴏ ᴍᴀɴʏ ʟɪᴛᴛʟᴇ ᴛᴡɪsᴛs ᴀɴᴅ ᴛᴜʀɴs ᴛʜʀᴏᴜɢʜᴏᴜᴛ ᴛʜᴇ ʙᴏᴏᴋ, ɪ sᴛᴀʏᴇᴅ ᴇɴɢᴀɢᴇᴅ ᴛʜᴇ ᴇɴᴛɪʀᴇ ᴛɪᴍᴇ. ɪ ᴀʙsᴏʟᴜᴛᴇʟʏ ʟᴏᴠᴇᴅ ᴛʜᴇ ᴡᴀʏ ᴄᴇʀᴛᴀɪɴ ᴇᴠᴇɴᴛs ᴀʀᴇ ғᴏʀᴇsʜᴀᴅᴏᴡᴇᴅ ɪɴ ᴛʜᴇ sᴜʙᴛʟᴇsᴛ ᴏғ ᴡᴀʏs, ʙᴜᴛ ᴇɴᴏᴜɢʜ ᴛᴏ ɢɪᴠᴇ ᴀ ᴘᴀʏᴏғғ ᴀs sᴏᴏɴ ᴀs ʏᴏᴜ ᴍᴀᴋᴇ ᴛʜᴇ ᴄᴏɴɴᴇᴄᴛɪᴏɴ. ɪ ʟᴏᴠᴇᴅ ᴛʜɪs ʙᴏᴏᴋ, ᴛʜᴇ ᴍʏsᴛᴇʀʏ, ᴛʜᴇ ᴄᴀᴍᴘᴜs ᴠɪʙᴇ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ʙʀᴏᴜɢʜᴛ ᴀʙᴏᴜᴛ ғᴇᴇʟɪɴɢs ᴏғ ɴᴏsᴛᴀʟɢɪᴀ (ᴍɪɴᴜs ᴛʜᴇ ᴍᴜʀᴅᴇʀ ᴏғ ᴄᴏᴜʀsᴇ) ᴀɴᴅ ᴛʜᴇ ʀᴏᴍᴀɴᴄᴇ ᴡᴏᴠᴇɴ ᴛʜʀᴏᴜɢʜ ᴏᴜᴛ. ʜɪɢʜʟʏ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇᴅ ʀᴇᴀᴅɪɴɢ ɪᴛ ɪғ ʏᴏᴜ ʜᴀᴠᴇɴ'ᴛ ᴀʟʀᴇᴀᴅʏ.
5293047023	Bawiłam się wybornie
4203397505	If I had to choose between The Secret History, If We Were Villains, and In My Dreams I Hold a Knife, this book would totally win. Probably one of the bitchiest and funniest characters I've ever read in a thriller, Jessica will undoubtedly remain a long time favorite. It's the main character energy for me!!Watch our liveshow here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOtr7...Watch our interview with Ashley here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ub3kM...4 STARS Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
4231360049	What struck me the most is that despite the fact that this novel is full of cliché tropes and obvious love triangles and betrayals that one can experience throughout college, I enjoyed it and was startled to find myself caring about the characters and their ends.Ashley Winstead deserves kudos for creating such a compelling story. The author has truly created a work of art..
4979650801	★ 2.5 stars “Sometimes, you didn’t have to lift a finger. Sometimes, you could do nothing and get exactly what you wanted.” well... i’m disappointed. this book truly had the potential to be excellent since it has: • unsolved murder• dysfunctional friend group• dark academia vibes• multiple twists and turnsbut sadly, the execution left much to be desired. the first 30% or so was very boring and slow paced. i almost dnf’ed it because i couldn’t get invested in the story, i felt like nothing relevant was happening, but i decided to keep reading it and see if the ending would pay off — spoiler alert: it didn’t. the middle piqued my interest, though. as i mentioned above, there were some twists and turns and they kept me guessing until the end, that explains why i rated this book two stars instead of one. however, there were a few things that didn’t make sense to me and others that felt forced.the only character i liked in this was Caroline — but i didn’t like the rest of the characters. they were insufferable, immature, selfish and awful people, i felt no connection or empathy towards them. i honestly couldn’t care less. also, their friend group was pretty messed up and toxic but, well, i guess that was the whole point of this book.the big plot twist about who was the murderer was lame and unsatisfying, it made me extremely upset. i really thought the twist would be absolutely shocking and mind-blowing since there was an interesting build up, but after i discovered i was left thinking, “that’s it?” it was just... weak. i was expecting something way better, even my stupid theories were more fascinating than that. there was another plot twist in the last chapter that was more interesting and it surprised me. it was kind of shocking and unexpected, so that’s the reason why i’m giving it a half star.overall, this book is far from excellent. the premise sounded great, but the execution was done poorly — definitely one of the worst thrillers i’ve ever read. even though i enjoyed some parts of it, i don’t think it was worth the read. a waste of my time.and just so you know: there’s no knife in this book, which is ironic since it’s called In My Dreams I Hold a Knife.
4368330386	A slow burn psychological thriller with phenomenal character development. Seriously, I haven't read a thriller with this level of development in a LONG time. The characters in the East House Seven were all very unique and they all had their dark secrets, which made reading about each of them very enjoyable. I felt like I was a fly on the wall that was spying on my own friend group. The unsolved mystery of Heathers murder definitely kept me on the edge of my seat. I truly couldn't rule out any of them until the moment it was solved. Although, I did feel like it was solved a little too early on and the ending didn't give me that much of a shock. Which is why I'm giving it 4/5 stars. I'm looking forward to reading more thrillers by Ashley Winstead :).
3924175068	LOVE. THIS. BOOK! I would say that is my favorite book of the year (even though it came out last year 🤔),because it’s everything that I’ve been looking for in a psychological thriller/suspense book. This book was cleverly written with detailed characters that I resonated with, especially that of our main character, Jessica Miller. In My Dreams I Hold A Knife, starts off as a ten year college reunion for a group of friends known as the “East House Seven”. Only problem is, there’s only six friends left, because one was tragically murdered…Also at this reunion, one of the friends was not invited because he was accused of the murder of Heather Shelby ten years ago (she was one of the members of the EH7 group). At this college reunion, there is an interrogation of sorts between the friends to find out who really murdered Heather. During this time, we go back and forth between the college years, and then the present day. There were many characters to keep track of that were involved in the “East House Seven”, which included Jessica, Mint, Coop, Caro, Heather, Jack, and Frankie- but it was easy and I could not turn the pages fast enough! I can’t believe how creative this story was! Jessica Miller’s character took this story all the way up to the five stars. I think we can all relate to Jessica at some point in our life- if not all the time. I highly recommend reading this book- especially if you are a thriller lover! In the meantime, I am looking forward to reading any and all books from this author!
4188610024	Weirdly enough, I liked this so much because of the romantic elements. The mystery was fine, and it was really fun to go between the two timelines of “before” the murder and 10 years later- but I ended up being completely invested in a certain relationship vs actually finding out what happened that fateful night.
4212030749	buddy read with the lovely alka who was the only good thing about this book ✨you know, the problem with writing a review a week after you finish a book, is that i have already forgotten everything about it.the main issue with this book is the main character. and also every other character.jessica is so goddamn annoying. she's like 28 but acts like she's 14. she's so insecure and constantly crying about how hard her life is because she didn't get into the sorority she wanted. do i look like i care? sororities and fraternities are weird either way, keep that shit away from me.i don't even want to say more about this. the murderer and motive were also fucking awful and tbh i am still banging my head against a wall, so who cares. don't read it. all thrillers are bad. read a vegan recipe book and do something nice for our planet.---well, this was terriblertc when I have stopped laughing and/or banging my head against the wall
5693412545	4.25 ⭐️ dark academia, mystery, messed up characters? sign me tf up ✍🏻
4708402246	3.75 stars A group of six friends attend their college reunion where ten years ago their friend Heather was murdered. They all assumed who the killer was, but once reunited they all realize they’ve had secrets from each other and one of them may have been the one to kill Heather. I enjoyed this book for the most part, I think listening to the audiobook made the pacing slower than it would have been if I was reading the hard copy of the book. Despite most of the characters being terrible human beings, I actually really enjoyed the dynamics of this book. I did figure out the who did it part, I just didn’t know why so that reveal was interesting to me. Overall a very solid thriller/mystery novel that did a wonderful job with character examinations.
3964704517	“The East House Seven. Mint, Caro, Frankie, Coop, Heather, Jack, and me.The people responsible for the best days of my life, and the worst.But even at our worst, no one could have predicted that one of us would never make it out of college. Another, accused of murdering her. The rest of us, spun adrift. East House Seven no longer an honor but an accusation, splashed across headlines.”This book was bananas! It started out a bit slow for me and I even almost put it down, but my friends at @SaturdayBookstaClub convinced me to keep going. And I’m so glad I did! I totally couldn’t put it down at a certain point. I was addicted to the drama..so good!!Jessica is counting down the days to her 10 year college reunion. Her objective is to show everyone exactly how far she’s come. She’s never quite felt like she has ever really been seen. Even with her being in the infamous East House Seven and dating Mint, one of the hottest and wealthiest boys on campus. But that’s all changed now. From her top tier clothes, new hotter look, and a successful as well as publicized career. She’s on top now and she wants everyone to know it. Including Mint who left her for another as well as her actual secret college love, the one Jessica let get away.But things at the reunion are not turning out the way Jessica had hoped, because someone else also has an agenda. To find out who killed Heather, a memorialized member of The East House Seven. And they won’t stop until every last secret the friends have is dredged up and brought to light. Not until Heather’s murder is solved. The book takes place during two time periods. It starts from the present and alternates in pieces from 10 years prior when Jessica was attending Duquette. I loved getting to see the school through her eyes and how proud she was to be there. And I loved getting to know all the characters through Jessica’s eyes. They are all put up on a pedestal of sorts, except Coop and Courtney (who is not really an East House Seven member and Jessica’s nemesis). But their perches start to sink when all the sordid secrets come out, everyone has one, even the sweetest of the bunch. And each secret links them to Heather and gives them a motive for her death.I thoroughly enjoyed the full range of suspects as well as the many twists and turns. It kept me on my toes trying to figure out who could be the possible killer, was it Jack or someone else? I did end up figuring it out before it was revealed but that didn’t take away anything from the book for me. Especially because even when the true killer was revealed there was a twist that sucker punched me right in the jaw. Favorite Characters:It’s a tie between Frankie and Coop. I loved how Frankie really found himself and was willing to let the world know who he really was. I was doing a silent cheer for him facing his fears and possibly letting his dad down.Coop was a favorite because well, I have a thing for bad boys, what can I say, it’s just in my DNA. 🤷‍♀️ And under the bad boy ness Coop really seemed to have a heart, at least for one person in particular.Least Favorite Characters:Another tie. Between Jessica and Courtney. Jessica got on my nerves with her constant whining about how she was never really seen. But towards the end she actually grew on me, especially seeing exactly how her insecurities were shaped. I still didn’t exactly like her but I understood her. Courtney was just an all around bitch. Not one nice thing to say. She was also a product of her environment, namely her mother. But I couldn’t give her a pass for that, she was just an awful person, period.I highly recommend this for lovers of unreliable narrators, character driven stories, dark academia, and a thriller with lots of twists and turns. You won’t be disappointed!
4166519933	This reads 80% like a contemporary YA romance and 20% a thriller. I didn’t care about any of the characters
4400118532	The great thriller slump is officially over! After reading so many disappointing books in the genre, I have been avoiding thrillers like Trump supporters avoid the vaccine. But after reading so many phenomenal twisty and suspenseful books recently I'm back to obsessing over my favorite genre. Case in point, the mind blowing book that officially broke my slump:In My Dreams I Hold A Knife by Ashley WinsteadIn going to skip the synopsis since a lot of you have already read it or know what it's about. But if you haven't grabbed a copy yet just know that this book has not just one, but all of the following elements: ☑️College reunion☑️Murder mystery ☑️Nail biting, edge of your seat suspense ☑️Back stabbing frenemies ☑️Secret lovers☑️A shocking twistIn short, I absolutely loved this book! It was everything that a good thriller should be. From page one to the last, I could not put this one down. I was very impressed with Ashley Winstead’s writing. The character development and multi-layered plot were brilliant. Most of the characters in this story are morally grey(even sociopathic) and extremely unlikeable. Which made me more invested in the story. I highly recommend In My Dreams I Hold A Knife to all thriller fans! This book would be perfect for anyone who needs to get out of a reading slump.
4059665630	TALK ABOUT BINGE READ! I started this book a mere hours ago and was able to finish this book without putting it down. This may be a debut novel, but Ashley Winstead puts Ruth Ware to shame in In My Dreams I Hold a Knife . The story focuses on Jessica Miller and her college reunion at the elite Duquette University. Jessica had a circle of friends, but has distanced herself from a majority of them after a murder affected the group before graduation. When Jessica arrives to her reunion, she sees the group she once considered a second family, but she is not the same woman anymore. She is confident and financially successful, two qualities she doubted in herself when she was younger. Reunited with her college friends, the group is conflicted about the death that rocked their group, especially when some people want to get down to the bottom of it. It's been ten years and the murder is still unsolved, but why? I went into this novel with high expectations, especially since @katieladyreads compared it to Riverdale, and @beautyandthebook loved it. They were correct and my faith in the mystery/thriller binge read genre has been restored. I always love when books follow a streamlined setting, but surprise you in the end. It's a total binge read and will be perfect for beach read fanatics. I see big things for Ashley Winstead and can't wait to see what she has up her sleeve next. In My Dreams I Hold a Knife will be a staple in the Summer 2021 mystery/thrillers.
5008162040	THIS WAS SO GOOD. And I was actually obsessed with the romance!? I loved how this book went through all of the characters to see who would really have murdered their friend in college. I actually really enjoyed the heroine and see how broken she was. Her childhood led to her being obsessed with being the best and this book took a hard look at how that can really affect and break a person. I just loved the mystery and I couldn't stop reading!
3975497672	4.5 starsI'm pretty much always game for a whodunit story. Fair warning this book has a cast full of unlikable characters but that works for the story rather than against because everyone is a suspect. The author did a good job stringing out the mystery until the end. I normally have a pretty good sense of where things are headed but it was difficult coming up with a prediction when my head was swirling with other possible theories as well.Jessica Miller has finally made it in this world, at least according to her standards. She returns to her alma mater for her ten year college reunion. She had a group of close knit friends back in the day. One of those friends was murdered and a decade later the case remains unsolved. Perhaps this get together will finally bring some answers once and for all.The story alternates between the present day at the reunion and key moments during Jessica's college years. Even though you are getting pieces of the backstory along the way the author held her cards close to her vest until finally laying it all out for the big reveal. I was reasonably satisfied with the ending. All in all it's just one of those good popcorn eating type reads. Can't wait to read the author's next book!
4126827821	Jessica Miller has been looking forward to her ten year college reunion for quite awhile. She finally wants to show all her old friends and university peers how she turned into a huge success not just 2nd or 3rd place as she had her entire life. Jessica has always suffered from insecurity stemming from her childhood issues but not anymore, she will show everyone they were wrong about her especially her close six friends (now five) who were all tied at the hip until the fateful day senior year when beautiful, talented, effervescent Heather was brutally murdered and one of their friends was accused of the crime although Jessica has always felt they were innocent but sadly it brought shame down upon the entire group of friends. Nevertheless Jessica will find that she will stand out and so will everyone else because someone is out to expose all the lies and ugly, dark secrets that be need to be told and bring the real killer to justice before they kill again. This was an amazing and entertaining book that takes you back and forth from past to present in a deliciously, juicy telling of the seven friends from freshman year until the present. I thought the story was very clever and stylishly written and enjoyed discovering all the dirty little secrets. I hope to read more books by Ashley Winstead and I recommend this story to any reader who enjoys sinister college drama. I want to thank the publisher "Sourcebook Landmark"and Netgalley for the opportunity to read this book and any thoughts and opinions expressed are unbiased and mine alone! I have given a rating of 4 CAPTIVATING 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Stars!!
3995404268	The East Hall Seven were in their glory days twenty years ago. Then one of them was brutally murdered. Who murdered Heather? Was it truly Jack, her devoted boyfriend? Twenty years later her younger brother Eric has a plan. If he can get all the remaining members of the group to come back to campus for Homecoming, he will get the murderer to confess. With impeccable pacing, Ashley Winstead bares all the secrets this bunch has been hiding. Told in dual timelines -- past and present -- all the pieces start to fall into place. It's a messy, complicated story and quite addictive. Includes a Reading Group Guide and enlightening interview with the author. Hand this one to fans of Ruth Ware and Lisa Jewell.Thank you to Sourcebooks landmark and Edelweiss+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.
4210896695	2.5 stars.so many expectations from this one but... all it felt like was a parody of The Secret History. oh well.
4844039362	I really liked parts of this book. The twists and turns where great. But I just didn’t feel my pulse quickening in the process. Maybe it felt like I’ve read something very similar, so the story didn’t stand out and will probably be easily forgotten.
4155338804	3.5 ⭐️ Intriguing, entertaining, and full of secrets!In My Dreams I Hold A Knife pulled me right in with its dark campus vibes, tangled friendships, and a murder that still haunts every reunion toast. From the moment Jessica steps back onto Duquette’s grounds, it’s like the past is waiting to catch up with her.The dual timelines are well done, weaving together the present-day tension of the reunion with the unraveling memories of what happened that night. And these characters? Unlikable in all the best ways. They all had twisted motivations and dark secrets, and while I didn’t particularly enjoy any of them, I was completely invested in seeing how it would all unfold. I shook my head, gasped, and questioned my own theories more than once.There were some subtle clues along the way about who the killer might be, and I did guess it early on. But that didn’t take away from the story. The reveal was still satisfying, with motivations that felt true to the complexities of the characters and the choices they made. The tension built just right, making the final moments all the more unsettling.Initially, I found it hard to relate to the college culture and its expectations. Not knowing the ins and outs of Duquette’s world left me a little confused at times. I actually picked this one up a few times and put it aside because the characters’ self-absorbed behavior and reckless choices didn’t resonate with me. But this time, I was able to make it all the way through and ended up enjoying it. Once I let go of those reservations and just went with it, I found myself swept up in the drama and secrets.If you enjoy stories with layered mysteries, complicated friendships, and a lingering sense of unease, this one is well worth picking up. It’s an entertaining read that kept me turning the pages.
5765231058	UA: Книжка з розряду «чому цього немає українською?» 🥲 Чудова темна академія, саме така, якою вона і має бути: багато університетського життя, темних секретів і претензійності. Ідеальний вибір для книжкового клубу, радію, що прочитала це разом з іншими книголюбами 🖤 En.: This is what dark academia should feel like. Moody, intellectual, and full of secrets that twist through old university halls. If you love reading about students, campus life, and the dark things people hide behind ambition and friendship — this book is it. I loved discovering all the little details about academic life, those pretentious traditions and tight-knit communities that make this world so fascinating. It’s definitely more character-driven than plot-heavy, but that’s exactly what I adore about the genre — the atmosphere, the secrets, the slow unraveling. Not for everyone, but for me? Perfection. 5 black stars!
5135975765	I honestly had to dig deep to get through this predictable mystery. I don't know why I held on until the end because I detested the main character, Jessica, with a passion. I wasn't invested in who killed Heather because we didn't really get to know her at all. There was an angsty teen drama vibe despite the dual timeline between them as university students and then adults. I did enjoy how things unfolded in the last 1/4 but overall this was just okay for me.
4421847827	I appreciated how character driven this one was, as well as how much I liked the writing. I'm not sure plot wise this was the most innovative, but... I didn't care. I enjoyed it and look forward to reading more from this author!
4132523187	I'm sorry, but I am definitely not on the same page as most reviewers. In fact, I'm so off-the-page, that I'm beginning to worry that I somehow read an entirely different book? Maybe my copy was accidentally printed with a rejected proposal for a spin-off of Pretty Little Liars, because that's how it read. I honestly should have stopped reading within the first few pages when the protagonist exclaimed that she was wearing a Rodarte - it was a good indicator of how inane and superficial the story to come would be.(view spoiler)[People keep lauding the novel for its layered and well-developed characters, but the only one who felt at all tangible to me was the protagonist. The other characters were jammed into tired stereotypes (mean blonde or closeted football star, anyone?), slapped with a hidden vice or two, and then the author called it a day. The "thriller" aspect of the novel never came through, as the scenes that should have been unsettling or climactic ended up feeling forced or downright laughable. I mean, one revelationary scene happens when the group decides to confront one of their own while he grand-marshalled a homecoming parade. A PARADE. Is this supposed to be suspenseful? Because all I could imagine was a group of 30-somethings screaming at each other on a crowded float, somehow unnoticed by the audience or event organizers. The mystery itself was messy, seemingly only enabled by the fact that the police refused to interview anyone but their prime suspect during the initial investigation. They didn't even have enough to charge him, but dropped the case without even talking to the deceased's roommates (especially given she was found in one of their beds)? I have little faith in modern policing, but you would think they would be a little more thorough, especially given that the victim was from an affluent family. I could honestly go on about all the issues I had with this novel, but I don't want to waste more mental energy than necessary on it. I'm still unsure how my takeaways were so drastically different than the majority of reviewers, as I don't consider myself a picky reader by any stretch. (hide spoiler)]
5812415270	Are you interested in reading a book from the pov of one of the shittiest people to ever exist? If so, this book is for you! This book follows our main character (whose name I have already forgotten and don't really care enough to look up) as she goes to her college's 10 year reunion and meets up with her old friends. The twist? One of her friends was murdered in the winter of their senior year and her brother is dead set on figuring out which one of her friends did it. This book was... fine. I read it super fast and enjoyed it while I was reading it, but it has only been 5 days since I finished it and I barely remember anything. Every single character was insanely unlikeable but our main character is some kind of sociopath with no redeeming qualities and man it was painful but in a fun way(?). I would very much NOT classify this book as dark academia... yeah it takes place at a university but it is SEC school frat/srat vibes not academia vibes so I was a bit disappointed in that regard. Overall this was a fast paced mystery you can blaze through in one day but I was left underwhelmed and wondering... Why do I care?
3959830538	Though this was a quick read, and certainly entertaining enough, the characters are SO annoying. I get that they're probably supposed to be, but why are characters in elite universities or boarding schools always so insufferable? Anyway, maybe I've read waaay too much crime fiction, but I saw the twists and turns well ahead of time and just wasn't blown away by this one. That being said, this was the author's first book, and publishing and writing a book, especially to such generally good reviews, is a huge feat and for that I congratulate her! I'd read something else by her in the future, but this one just wasn't as great as I hoped it would be, given all the glowing reviews. I'll be reading Alice Feeney's new "Rock Paper Scissors" next and hope it will live up to expectations!
5061917254	going to put this book in "dark academia hall of disgrace"!! so this was supposed to be a dark academia murder mystery. supposed being the keyword here. because what it is, is a book with somewhat good mystery trying very desperately to be dark academia. most of the characters are annoying, one dimensional, and all in all people i give (let me count) 0 fucks about.br with @izabela. its sad it didn't meet our expectations. we were so excited abt dark academia + autumn vibes. but br with you was funn___________________ pre review this was supposed to be dark academia. its anything but 😭 it really fucking breaks my heart when dark academia fails. RTC
4168461570	Outlier alert. The East House Seven, Duquette University, N Carolina, class of 2009 - Mint, Caro, Frankie, Coop, Heather, Jack and our narrator, Jessica. The best days and the worst. Ten years on, Jessica is successfully climbing the corporate ladder and is excited to receive the Ten Year Anniversary reunion invitation….. but is she worthy of her success? Exceptional Jessica or Mediocre Jessica? The reunion would seal the deal as she would read the truth in their eyes. At long last she’s going back but to what exactly? There’s an awful lot I could say about this but I’ll start by saying it’s very American. Now, I don’t mean that as anything negative just a statement of fact. I don’t understand the Frat/Sorority system and I don’t care enough about it or these characters to find out more but it seems VERY toxic. There were plenty of other references that totally go over the top of my head too but equally I’m sure if something is very British, people might have the same reaction as me. Whilst the novel is good on dynamics and undercurrents and there are plenty of twists, these are very immature, narcissistic, nasty people who I couldn’t give two hoots (polite version) about. It’s very YA with juvenile pranks and I’m too long in the tooth to be impressed. A lot of the story is told via dialogue and that to me is a cop out. It leaves me feeling very cold, very frustrated and VERY bored. I repeat VERY BORED. I’ll stop now and finish by saying it’s a good job I didn’t read this before two of this authors books I have enjoyed very much. Kindle Unlimited.
3940696002	This book was such a great read! Thank you so much to Ashley Winstead, Bibliolifestyle, and Bookmarked for this stunning ARC. The title, the cover, and the premise all sounded amazing and I was not disappointed. This book was about Jessica, a woman who is excited to go to her 10 year college reunion to show everyone how much she’s changed. Her senior year was marred when one of her best friends was murdered, and everyone thought her boyfriend did it. Jessica’s tight group of friends broke apart, and she never became the person she truly wanted. Now she wants to go back and show everyone how “fabulous” her life turned out, but someone has something else in store for her. They want to get down to the murder of her friend Heather, and think there is much more to it than the police originally thought. Everyone has a part to play, and everyone has secrets they want to stay hidden. Thoughts: Originally, I thought this book was very similar to The Girls Are All So Nice Here. They both were set in a university, surrounding a group of friends. In both, someone dies and in the future the friend group comes back to the school for a reunion. This book was so captivating and I loved the unique characters so much. Each character had a story in themselves that was intriguing to read about. The main character Jessica was deeply flawed- narcissistic, self-centered, and very selfish. She put her goals of becoming the best over everything else.I loved the twists and turns in this book. The way it was written was so captivating and mysterious. It was such a great mystery and it was fun to read about the past. Books set at universities always get me and this was no exception. I kept trying to figure out what would happen at the end, but I didn’t guess it at all! It was a complete surprise and I loved it! 4.5 stars for me!
4160294461	I feel like this should've been placed in YA. In My Dreams I Hold a Knife is about a 10-year college reunion (wait... do people really have a 10-year college reunion???) for the self-titled East House Seven. Only there's six now, because sweet Heather was murdered and the case remains unsolved. This is mislabeled as an adult version of a best selling YA novel I didn't read. Don't be fooled by the character's age because they still bring all the YA angst and melodrama. Nothing here was realistic. The dialogue, actions, decisions, and let's not forget love at first sight and the subsequent unrequited love. The worst crime here is that this whole thing could've been solved if a certain character didn't have unexplained memory loss. Towards the end, they bop their palm on their forehead in a sudden aha moment and remember what happened. There was a little twist at the end most readers enjoyed. It was fine, but it made the characters even more unlikable then they already were. And the final pages were "hop on a motorcycle and ride off into the sunset" corny. The audiobook narrator was great. Love the title and book cover, but this didn't live up to all the 5-star reviews for me. Cheers!
4185091332	third read 12/22: "it turns out the real you is a quilt, made up of the light and the dark. the life you've lived in sunshine and your shadow life, stretching underneath the surface of your mind like a deep underwater world, exerting invisible power. you are a living, breathing story made up of the moments in time you cherish, all strung together, and those you hide." ❤️second read 12/21: in the interview at the end of the book AW says"when I pick up a psychological thriller as a reader, I'm asking it for one thing: tell me who I am - the parts I haven't figured out yet for myself."and that's what this book gave me! it was even better upon a reread and I am still stunned at how the author could make me so invested in the story in such a small amount of pagesREAD THIS BOOKfirst read 10/21: holy shit what a debut!!!!! absolutely brilliant
4877085155	The most shocking part is an inconsequential flashback scene where a grandma gets slapped. It’s truly gasp-worthy. Everything else is toast with no butter.
4309947316	This was my first Ashley Winstead book, and I immediately will be starting another of her books! I actually listened to Ashley’s episode on my favorite podcast, Books Are Chic, prior to reading In My Dreams. She was working on a somewhat failed manuscript before completely trashing it and writing this book instead. I feel like this quote from chapter one totally sums up Ashley’s (and, okay… mine, too) attitude:“. . . I’d amended that I didn’t need to be perfect, per se, as long as I was the best.”I absolutely LOVED this main character. Post-college Jessica is a bit catty, mean, and overall unstoppable. She visits her ten year reunion in hopes of showing everyone that guess what? She may not have been shit in college, but she’s the best now. Threads begin to unravel, and the reunited friends (nicknamed The East Seven) are faced with both the truths and the lies of a member who could not make it to the reunion… because she’s dead. To be honest, none of the characters in this book are particularly likeable, but the author kind of made me love them all in different ways. I wasn’t necessarily in a race to turn the pages, but it kept my attention and I was very satisfied with the ending. Considering this was Ashley’s debut, it was pretty impressive!
4656257765	This was incredible!! I tore through it so quickly.Dark academia vibes, a ten-year reunion of friends who've drifted apart in the wake of the tragic death of their friend. Ashley Winstead so cleverly unspooled each character's tightly woven persona until they'd unraveled into their full, morally gray complexity. I didn't see the ending coming and loved how this kept me guessing. I am completely hooked on Winstead's writing and cannot wait to read what she gives us next!!Content notes: drug use, drug dealing, drug addiction, death by overdose, sexual harassment, violence, gore, murder, homophobia.
4332434457	Honestly one of the best thrillers I have read to date. I just really enjoyed my whole reading experience. It felt very character driven, which I think can be missing often in the thriller genre. It was about the friend group as much as it was about the unsolved murder. I would highly recommend this to anyone looking for a book that's hard to put down. Booktube | Instagram | Twitter
4061569363	WOW what a debut!! this will be a thriller of the summer and it’s well deserved! if you love campus focused thrillers with whodunnit vibes—think GOOD GIRLS LIE, REPUTATION, THEY NEVER LEARN—then IN MY DREAMS I HOLD A KNIFE is for you! couldn’t figure out the twist for the life of me and that almost never happens, so BRAVO to the author 🤪🤓there’s a LOT of characters in this one so you really have to pay attention because they’re all deep and twisted in their own ways. thanks to Bookmarked for the gifted copy! out 8/3–full review to come on my Instagram :)
4250114569	"It turns out the real you is a quilt, made up of the light and the dark. The life you've lived in sunshine and your shadow life, stretching underneath the surface of your mind like a deep underwater world, exerting invisible power. You are a living, breathing story made up of the moments in time you cherish, all strung together, and those you hide. The moments that seem lost. Until the day they're not." I was unsure what to expect from this psychological thriller centred around seven privileged and popular college students returning to their Alma Mater ten years later and two friends short; one, because she was brutally murdered in their senior year, and the other, because he'd been the prime suspect; only to be confronted by their late friend's little brother, who after obsessing over the evidence for a decade, has come to a different conclusion about his sister's killer and is ready for vengeance. There were aspects of this story that didn't quite click for me, including some of the melodrama in the writing style (though I can appreciate the author's attempt to capture that intense, overwhelming feeling that comes with young friendships that can take over your entire life). But overall, I was enthralled.The characters, while deeply unlikeable, were also well-fleshed out and complex. They each had family histories and motivations that led their decisions in a way that, while sometimes extreme, made sense. The exploration of toxic, all-encompassing friendships at that age between child and adulthood was fascinating and, unfortunately, relatable. That extreme infatuation and possessiveness can come with young, obsessive, and unhealthy friendships - the kind that burn bright and burn out in the blink of an eye.I found the mystery itself quite intriguing, as the secrets of each major player were slowly revealed, slightly shifting our understanding of what happened that night bit by bit. I was shocked and horrified, unsettled and enraged, but felt what happened made sense based on the characters Winstead had created and the world they inhabited. This book explores addiction, toxic masculinity, classism, perfectionism, privilege, pride, status, ambition, jealousy, obsession, and the extreme primal urge to please our parents no matter what. I can see why some might not enjoy this thriller, but it hit (almost) all the right notes for me. A quick and easy read that pulls you in and spits you out, head reeling and heart pounding with shock and disgust.Trigger/Content Warnings: addiction, overdose, drugging, eating disorders, murder, blood, violence, sexual assault, infidelity, car accident, death of a parent, homophobia, suicide attempt, toxic relationships You can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
3750628693	“Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?”AWESOME COVER! College is one of the most memorable times of your life, but it can be brutal, too. It’s murder in this character-driven thriller! The East House Seven…seven college friends that should be reuniting for a fun-filled college reunion, ten years after graduation. Unfortunately, Heather can’t attend because she was murdered. And even though there wasn’t enough evidence to convict Jack, he’s estranged from his old pack. It took my sluggish brain a while to memorize all of the characters, especially the ones with the funky nicknames! And while I usually love dual timelines, I struggled with these. The past timelines jumped around, which made it hard to track the events.But otherwise, the story was captivating! This was a new author for me and the writing was excellent. Each character had some endearing qualities, along with their annoying characteristics. Jessica: The story centered around Jessica. She’s spent her life trying to be perfect and make her father proud. She had goals and second wasn’t an option.Heather: Although Heather was rich and entitled, she could be very sweet…until she started complaining about having to drive her crappy four-year-old car. Really? Things came easy for her. Mint: He was “the one” to be friends with. His parents were in real estate and grooming him to take over the family business.Coop: Gorgeous and mysterious. The bad boy who didn’t share much about himself. Caro: She was the peacemaker of the bunch that felt like she didn’t quite fit in. Always on the outskirts of the group. Jack: Heather’s boyfriend and the good church boy. He barely got out from under his religious parents to attend college. Frankie: The football star! Trying to live out his dad’s dream and make it to the NFL.Sincere thanks to NetGalley and Sourcebooks Landmark. I received an advance review copy for free, and I am leaving this review voluntarily.My Rating: 4.5 ⭐️’s Published: August 3rd 2021 by Sourcebooks LandmarkPages: 368Recommend: Yes#InMyHandIHoldAKnife #NetGalley #ARC #BookReviewer #InExchangeForReview #JustFinished #MustRead #PsychologicalThriller #NoRulesJustThrillsAfter publication, my reviews can be found at Amazon, Twitter, GoodReads, Barnes and Noble, BookBub, NetGalley, and Edelweiss@ashleywinstead @Sourcebooks @NetGalley
3969970579	4.5⭐! What a binge worthy debut Mystery/Thriller. The story is about 6 college friends who are tore apart by a murder amongst one of their own. The murder is unsolved because the police cannot find enough evidence, and they all move on with their lives….or so they think. Jessica Miller, and the others, are returning for the 10 year reunion from college. When they get together, someone is determined to get to the bottom of the murder that they can't forget about. Secrets that have been hidden for all these years resurface and juicy details come to light. Told in dual timelines which I loved! What a fun, entertaining, dark summer thriller! You will definitely need to add this one to your list. Definitely a compelling page turner! Thank you to the publisher and netgalley for the gifted copy in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own!
4372612790	This is a great example of not judging a book by its cover. The title is captivating and one of the best I've ever heard. The cover art is stunning. The story, however, is meh. The characters are shallow and one dimensional. There wasn't enough emphasis on or character development for Heather, which left the reader uninvested in who killed her. I could go on about all the ways this book disappointed me, but I'll just skip all that and suggest reading The Girls Are All So Nice Here instead.
4994498124	My jaw is on the floooooorThe friend group is wildThe roommate sorry to you babesAnd for a man yikes This whole book is DIABOLICAL
4168776819	Wow... just wow! Everyone is raving about this book and with good reason. Not yet released here in Australia other than on kindle, I was dying to read it. I got sick of waiting forever r the paperback and saw a kindle bargain for it so I snapped it up and started reading immediately. I love a dark thriller full of unlikeable characters that you cannot trust. A group of friends returning to their university 10 years after graduation, what could go wrong? Well... for the East House Seven as they were called, quite a lot actually. They were the cool kids, the group everyone wanted to be be part of. But they have all changed over the years and there is still the uncertainty on who killed one of their own back then.. and somebody is determined to finally find out the truth.What an incredible debut from Ashley Winstead. I didn’t want to stop reading and it may be one of my favourite thrillers for the year. I look forward to what she has in store for us next already. Highly recommend this for all lovers of a thriller with it all.
4070340602	This book tells the story of a college friend group who returns to their campus for a reunion years later, reliving the trauma and questions that arose when one friend in their group was murdered, and another was accused of murdering them. It was absolutely fantastic. This felt very reminiscent of Gossip Girl (aka a shady friend group that secretly hates each other) but with a butt ton more murder and dark secrets. I really loved this whole story, and the dual timelines kept me constantly turning the page and eager to find out what's next. Spending most of the book unsure if we could trust the main character gave the entire story an added layer of mystery and suspense. I gave this one a strong 5-star rating and I'm willing to bet it will end up in my top 3 thrillers of the year. Another bookstagram favorite that I waited FAR too long to pick up, and I don't recommend you make the same mistake!
4528335115	Yes, please. I picked In My Dreams I hold a Knife based on the hype alone. I waited a bit. Watched and then...dove in headfirst without even looking at the synopsis.Hyped books can be tricky. Can I get an Amen? I was scared. But then.... I started. And I couldn't stop. I had a busy few days. That is my only true regret. I wish I had sat down with it when I had the time to read it cover to cover. The premise has been done again and again, if I am being honest. Group of alumni get together years after college graduation for Homecoming. Within the group. One is missing, murdered senior year. One is the suspect...ten years later. Five more players from the original group. The narrator is unreliable. Who am I even kidding? They are all unreliable. What made this title different? I'm not sure. It certainly was propulsive. The characters were all very interesting subjects. Also, the Then and Now....always tricky.... was very well done. I felt like I was truly submerged into the college.I feel like I haven't really said why I enjoyed this one so much...and I haven't. At the end of the day. The writing and the story were both addictive and I highly suggest picking this one up.
4129390870	I have been obsessed with this book since seeing reviews of it right before it's publication. Ordering it wasn't an option so I asked my library to order it for me! Cue me checking my reservation tracking every day for six weeks until I had my hands on it!Unreliable characters galore in this one!I was hooked from the first page, and couldn't put it down after that until I had finished. The characters were many, but the author does a great job of distinguishing them and dropping reminders through her writing so we stay on track.The plot is unique and so fast paced, with dual timelines to give us the background we need to find out who murdered Heather. The dual timeline was a little jarring at first, and did take a little getting used to, but I couldn't bring myself to deduct a star.I loved this book, and fans of twisty, fast paced thrillers will lap this one up.
5774542707	I liked the way this book goes back in time to tell the story while keeping you updated with the present too. All the characters are deeply unlikeable but I kind of like that. Quick paced, easy to read thriller. Can't go wrong!
4296267416	3 things I liked about this book:- Terrible well written characters- Toxic friendship in a very refreshing way. like, you know they're toxic but it makes sense. not toxic for the sake of it. - Ending good in the worst waya thing I could've done without: - The dialogue at the beginning of the book was very uncanny. characters speak in long sentences that becomes very weird and unrealistic (but it gets better tho so it's no biggie imo)I was captivated from the midpoint till the end. This book is really interesting, and I think it deserves the hype it's getting. Totally would read the next Thriller from this author (i heard it's about a cult.. which is exciting to me)my 2nd Read of the book (Audiobook): Yeah no the bad dialogue instantly pulled me out of the story. It's not just the narrator's voice but the dialogue itself was so strange. Avoid the audiobook if you wanna read this book and enjoy it.
4134899571	4.5/5Despite having had this book for awhile I was saving it for when I needed a guaranteed solid thriller read, I just had a good feeling about it being the right type of book for me and I was right 🙌🏻 It has a group of multifaceted characters that were all fascinating to me, maybe not so likable but who even needs that anyway? Not me. The plot was also really engaging, I loved that it flipped back and forth between the present day as a group of friends reunite for their college reunion back to their actual college days. Add in an unsolved murder of one of their own that happened during senior year and I was hooked. A must for thriller fans!
