817162334	During her first week as a student at The University of the Archangels and St. John The Divine, Sweeney Cassady becomes friends with Angela and Oliver, a pair of charismatic and beautiful young people who have been chosen for great things by the Goddess, and soon her destiny reveals itself to be mysteriously bound up with theirs. Opposing the Great Mother is an ancient brotherhood of mages known as the Benandanti, who have watched throughout the centuries for signs of a new advent of the ancient Goddess, and at last the signs have appeared. Soon the battle begins, and Sweeney remains at the heart of the conflict for decades."Waking the Moon" (1994) is a fantasy/horror tale inspired by the reemergence of The Goddess in the late 20th Century: first in the 60's and '70's as a source of energy and an object of worship, and later--unfortunately--in the '80's and '90's as a pop icon and a self-help exemplar. What each of these cultural enthusiasms failed to recall--and what Camille Paglia, for one, helped us remember--is that the Goddess has always been linked to chaos and destruction. It is not only her male consorts who are in danger (Adonis, Actaeon, Attis) but also the world in general, and civilization in particular.Don't worry, though, this is no anti-feminist screed, but an artfully crafted novel by a woman who knows not only her myths but also the darkness that those myths may release within us. The last third of the book surprised me, but it also pleased me, particularly the conclusion. Consider the story of Attis and Cebele: this ending strikes exactly the right note.
5071675522	Academic setting, secret occult societies, goddess worship… My question here is: how did teenage me never read that book? She would have lost her mind over it! This was exactly the sort of stuff she was into! It was actually a bit how young me fantasized actual academia would be: sophisticated people who discussed interesting and arcane topics, who had strange little gatherings away from prying eyes that she might one day be invited to… When university turned out to be pedestrian as fuck and when her fellow students turned out to be idiots, she was sorely disappointed. Even more so when there wasn’t even a charismatic professor for her to orbit around. Poor little thing. In fact, I am sure that if I had read this when I was an (archaeology!) undergrad, I would have lost my mind – but reading it at 38, my perspective on it was that this was interesting, but flawed and a bit too dry for my taste.During her first week as a student at the University of the Archangels and St. John the Divine, Sweeney befriends the glamorous and mysterious Oliver and Angelica. Part of her knows she will never quite mesh with them, that they are from a different world, but she simply can’t stay away. These friendship will lead to a world-shattering revelation: the university, and most of society, is in fact controlled by a secret society known as the Benandanti, who seek to protect human civilization from an ancient threat. When that threat materializes, Sweeney is caught in the middle, and while she is kept safe and away for many years, a string of strange deaths amongst the group she was once so close to will bring an ancient rivalry to an epic show-down.Many people have compared this book to “The Secret History’ and there are certainly a lot of parallels (though I believe “Waking the Moon” was published first). The neopagan feminist elements were obviously super fashionable at the time (and are making a comeback now, as are lots of 90s things!) and make for an interesting premise. But I’m not sure I would call this a feminist work (or if it is, it is way more extreme than any feminism I would be aligned with), and if I am not mistaken, a lot of the archeological theories discussed in the book have since been debunked.That can all be fine if you are happy to suspend disbelief, but I think that the bit that really made this a OK book for me (as opposed to a great one) is that I found the characters a bit dry. Sweeney’s passion and desire for both Oliver and Angelica was not something I really felt, and the fact that they are both clearly uninterested in her “that way” means there is zero tension in her relationship with them; it is not at all the love triangle I had expected, and I couldn’t really get why they bothered hanging out with her. It also reminded me of “Call me by your name” in the sense that I absolutely can’t believe in characters that age speaking like that, quoting the classics left right and center – regardless of how illustrious an academic family they ail from. If Hand had taken more time fleshing out those characters and their relationships, and making it all juicier, I think I would have felt much more invested in what happened to them. The ending was interesting, though it felt rushed. And frankly, the relationship between Sweeney and Dylan also felt hastily written, and I had a hard buying it.In other words, a ton of interesting ideas and concepts that could quite nail the landing for me. I am sure that if I had read this at 17, I would have been totally obsessed with it, though!
11465537	This had been my favorite book for years. Despite, or maybe because of, the dark adventures our heroine, Sweeney, witnesses and partakes of, this book really spoke to me and reminded me very strongly of my own younger adventures. Also, this book introduced me to C.P. Kavafy, and I'm forever indebted to that. Even sitting here writing this review, some of that magic comes rolling back into me, reminding me of that time of my life. And Oliver, god, Oliver. Haven't read the book in about four years, and yet I'm almost crying just thinking about him.I really need to read this one again...
131331564	I can tell, even before I've finished typing one sentence into this dialogue box, that this is going to be a very long review. Why? Because I really liked the first two-thirds of this book. Loved it even, for the sensual, pungent writing, the overwrought but undeniably effective atmospherics, the genderbending, the rampant bisexuality of the ensemble cast, the references to UC Berkeley, the evocation of a very specific kind of college-aged lethary & alienation, the violence of feeling that is all but gouged into these pages, the deft incorporation of fantasy elements ... Speaking of fantasy elements. HOW TITILATING DO I FIND THEE. The malignant, black-winged angels. The creepy hallucinations. The brutal bloodbath rituals and the threat of sex edging every exchange and the secret doorways leading to worlds unknown. The gothic mystery of it all! The first third of this book, especially, reads like a perfumed, sweat-saturated medley of plot points taken from Jennifer's Body and Donna Tartt's The Secret History. (I say this understanding that this book predates both of those titles.) The writing was only slightly overripe. There were some deeply felt feminist tirades in this story that made me sit straight up, gripping the book hard, excited to see where they would lead. Man, I was loving it. So it comes as an enormous disappointment that after 500 pages of scene setting and tension building and feminist chestbeating, Hand leaves us with the ending that she does. Did no one else on Goodreads have MASSIVE FUCKING PROBLEMS with the way Hand (pun alert) handled the resolution to her story? Specifically, Hand seems to allow for the possibility of a multifaceted Goddess in the first half of the book, cf. when Sweeney leaps into Balthazar's portal, which leads into the Goddess's world, refusing to believe that worshipping Othiuym can only result in a future besieged by darkness and evil. BUT THEN, somewhere along the way, it's like Hand threw up her hands at the idea of ever producing a morally ambiguous scenario that somehow mediates a third space between EVIL PATRIARCHY on the one hand AND EVIL MATRIARCHY on the other, so the last third of the book degenerates abruptly into anti-women fear-mongering. Replete, of course, with descriptions of taut long fawn legs and itty bitty waists and boobies overflowerth. What had earlier seemed so empowering and erotic, a celebration of the female body, now seemed (esp. with a particular character's descent into cackling villainy) exploitive and gratuitous. [*****SPOILERS FOLLOW*****]I mean, it's one thing to write a fantasy novel about a militant feminist cult and have it all end in a totally sensationalized orgy of blood and sex and death where the female uprising has its punishment meted out to it if you're a man; it's another thing to do it if you're a woman. Not to say that either of these hypothetical authors should be excused; but it seems particularly egregious that the writer, here, of this book, is female. It feels like Hand's exploiting some very serious modern day issues for the purpose of telling a sexy, violent story, and then leaving these issues to the wayside without engaging with them in any meaningful way. They form the pivot of her story but are discarded, thoughtlessly, after having served their use (i.e. getting us to the nakedness, the blood-spattered sacrifices, and the requisite happy ending). The fact that women do get beaten, raped, passed over for promotions, consigned to a lifetime of housewife drudgery, subjected to jokes and comments and forms of media meant to police the way they see and use their bodies and brains, is of no significance to Sweeney, or to this narrator. Another thing that gets me about this book is its perpetuation of the view that women are all tumultuous emotion and primitive mystics and that it's the men, always the men, who are the lightbringers of order and civilization. When in reality, this couldn't be further from the truth. (Ever wonder why when Mohammad Yunus set up Grameen Bank, he made it a strict policy to lend ONLY TO WOMEN? Oh, shit, right, because the women were the ones who paid the bills and fed the children and stocked the pantry and did the bookkeeping and generally kept things in order, while the men did shit like blow all the money on booze. I'm not kidding, I'm pretty sure this has been proven in studies.) Kinda analogous to another totalizing narrative that gets disseminated a lot in today's media, i.e. that of the civilized white man subduing and then reforming the barbaric, brown-skinned savage. HBO's adaption of GoT, I'm looking atchu.So you know. While I was reading this book, I waved off my usual preoccupations with keenly observed character interiorities, with a certain restraint of language, with blah blah genre conventions. It didn't matter that I had no idea why Sweeney was so special that all the beautiful people fall in love with her! (Seriously, I kept waiting for the revelation that faerie blood ran through her family's veins or something.) It didn't even bother me that much that Hand's scenesetting signature shorthand is to type the words "coriander", "cardomom", "sandalwood", "preserved orange peels", "cinnamon", and "anise" in various endless combinations. It was all just so gothic and sinister and immense and exciting! But oh, the way she wrapped up this book's themes. Or, more specifically, the way she didn't. This was such a good book until the author decided to resort to comfortable black-white binaries in service to her fairytale ending and flip the bird to feminism on the way there. Seriously, ugh.
48723779	This is my second time through Waking the Moon, and it is just such a PLEASURABLE book, lush and spooky and expansive. On first read I expected a horror novel, and was a little disappointed, but taken as a feverishly overwritten dark fantasy, it can't be beat. It reminds me a lot of Neil Gaiman's American Gods, but I suppose this is American Goddesses, as narrator Sweeney finds her college friend becoming some sort of moon deity who just might destroy the Earth. I love that Hand has not weighted the scales too much toward the Special Spirtualness of Womyn, or toward the righteous Christians holding back the Pagan forces of darkness.It's a sexy, creepy, romantic book and just a ton of fun.
609873513	I found this novel frustrating, as the main character rarely actually does anything -- events happen to her, and around her, and she drifts on through them, emoting about them but never taking any decisive action. I also find it bemusing that so many people tout it as a feminist work; (view spoiler)[ any novel that suggests that we owe all the technologies our civilisation is based upon to men and that a female divine power would destroy the world is hardly feminist. I have read an interview with Hand in which she says that she is herself a feminist, but that she does not believe a matriarchal society would be any better than a patriarchal one. I agree with her, but what this novel presents is an image of female divinity as devouring violence, and male divinity as the oppressive-but-necessary bulwark against that. I find it irritating. (hide spoiler)]
137528813	Here is my one run-on sentence review: I hated the pretentious goth bohemian intellectual stab-me-in-the-face characters that I can't stand in real life (GOD. HATE. HATE SO MUCH) but I really enjoyed Elizabeth Hand's integration of mythology into her world-building, as well as her lovely prose which is why I give this three stars and not negative eleventybillion because of the irritating fucktardness of her characters.
6016440261	Total EPIC! (Harry Potter for Adults) This is the finest of Hand's books that I have encountered in my reading collection.
3434442212	This book has much going for it and yet proved difficult for me to enjoy. The author, Elizabeth Hand writes with such a vivid repertoire of words and phrases that you can almost taste and feel the setting. You can almost smell the "sandalwood and orange" that follows one of the main characters, Angelica. The sumptuous style though for me led to almost a repetition that was overkill. Though I hate to admit, I fast forwarded through some of the descriptions and most of the incantations. Another drawback were the characters themselves. Despite the edition I read being almost 400 pages I never felt a connection with them. Even the protagonist, Katherine Sweeney left me feeling indifferent despite the interesting predicaments that she faced. While, I frequently enjoyed aspects of this book and greatly respect the vivid imagery poor character development and annoying characters left me wanting more.
168912094	I found the story boring. The characters are narrow and stereotypes of archetypal myth figures but not as well done as the classic myths. Tries to use sex scenes to tantalize and stimulate but they aren't new or original.It doesn't really move along. First the main character is in college then it's 20 years later. She's an ostrich with her head in the sand, so self absorbed and uninterested in her 'friends'. Even the end is just about her own wants to have her first love returned and saved for herself. Depicts the destructive side of the goddess. Bemoans women's plight and more than slight through the ages. Mythopoeic fantasy award
239682939	Not badly done. Definitely heavily influenced by 1990s grad school feminism, but not fatally so. A college novel, and as usual with college novels of this type (see also The Secret History, the Rule of Four and many others), the college experience is romanticized beyond all recognition. But Hand's romanticization doesn't bury or distort (too much) the more pedestrian adolescent crises real people experience at college. Rather it heightens them and gives them a compelling context in which to play out.
15225969	Rather an amazing combination of horror, fantasy, mythos and suspense. From the beginning when a main character takes an ancient, crescent-shaped blade and...well, let me just say I was riveted to the story from the start. The title caught my eye in a bookstore. A lucky find! The book is one of my favorites now and I have read other works by Hand.******************************************** I wrote the above in the mid 1990s when Waking the Moon was published. I just now read a review someone wrote on LiveJournal at some point which panned it as "boring horror" in a long blah-blah about her personal female relationship with the Goddess which had nothing to do with this book; it was clear she hadn't read it at all. The Goddess force in Waking the Moon is primal. Her priestess is nothing less than Sythian, riding down her prey. Power is sought to offer. If circumstances to bring about that power must be nurtured over more than one generation, so be it. Power is gained through layers of time, through layers of one soul's many lives. Those who have been used may never know. Others may see it clearly from within the wreckage, in the aftermath. Their altered psyches may be part of the offering -- something which focuses and magnifies. Power lurks, seems, takes. Take a little back and achieve arc in the sky of Nyx, under Goddess Moon.
3636194524	An odd, supernatural 90's story that has an unlikeable character and some pacing issues, but I enjoyed it for its unusual story.It starts out slow but I thought it worked well because it builds the characters and the world and gives us a chance to really get into the story. I liked reading about Sweeney at university though I found it frustrating at times when she was skipping class and drinking all day; like she was really wasting her chance to be at university.After the time skip from Sweeney at University to nearly 20 years later when she is in her late 30's the pacing slows right down and I had trouble keeping going with it. I think mainly because Sweeney without her friends or other people around her is not interesting to read and that makes the story drag.Sweeney is one of those people, she admits herself, that if someone mentions a book she would pretend she had already read it and she chooses her friends based on how beautiful they are because she wants the interest and attention that they get to rub off on herself. She is all round just a very unlikeable character and her relationship with her intern just cements my dislike of her.Luckily, the pace quicks up quite quickly and other characters like Annie and Baby Joe come back into the story to make it more interesting again. There are a lot of odd, supernatural events that are never fully explained and things that don't seem to go anywhere but I enjoyed the oddness of it - it's an unusual story and I don't think I've read anything quite like this before. I didn't like Sweeney but there's enough going on around her that it didn't affect my enjoyment too much. I liked the way it was written and apart from the lull in the middle, I found myself engrossed in it. It's a good one if you want a book that you can get fully involved in where you won't feel like you've read it 100 times before.
2530940604	The ending kind of ruined this one for me. I was super into the pretentious college assholes being pretentious college assholes, naked ladies covered in poisonous snakes, the whole Matriarchy vs. Patriarchy showdown, and then suddenly you have like three pretty literal but also inexplicable Deus ex machinas in a row and now heterosexual patriarchy is restored because women fuck everything up (view spoiler)[ and are better off pregnant (hide spoiler)]I guess? What? The ending was not thought through at all. Not only does it not deliver thematically, it isn't even a good horror show. If you're gonna say fuck consistent themes, fuck having a protagonist who actually does shit, go bigger and destroy a few cities instead of just a bit of (view spoiler)[ coyly implied incestuous beastiality (?!?!?!?!?). I was sort of hoping Sweeney would be like "actually Angelica/Othiym you probably should go ahead and destroy the world because it's fucked and so am I." Or Annie, who never really gets her justice regarding Lisa's murder and actually what is the point of Annie other than me loving her. The happy ending is pretty pat. And, like I said, pretty comfortable with patriarchy and heteronormativity, because who cares about the queer characters and also women as a class now that Sweeney's got her nearly underage boytoy and a baby on the way who will, if there is any justice in the world, be the vengeful reincarnation of Angelica. (hide spoiler)]
1679957818	This is one of my top five favorite books of all time. I absolutely adore this novel. And, I've enjoyed all of Elizabeth Hand's works. I'll probably update this with a fuller review at some point, but for now: this is a truly decadent, fantastical, and beautiful novel. You should read it!
114976688	A novel that is as messy as the Goddess it portrays. It's the end of the world, as we know it. Patriarchy has been in the driver's seat for over 3,000 years. The Benandanti, an ancient order of dudes, have been suppressing the goddess ever since. But now the Goddess is back with a vengeance and Kate Sweeney Cassidy is in the middle of a mystic triangle between the two chosen ones who have been bred to combat the coming threat: Oliver Wilde Crawford (an eccentrically brilliant pretty boy) and Angelica di Rienzi, a pre-Raphelite beauty with a ferocious will, trailing a scent of sandlewood and oranges.While I think the book has some major problems, Hand's writing, subject matter and some of her characters make me want to try more of her work.The first third of the book is really slow - I had to wade through it. The descriptions of the university and the portentous details slow the story going forward. We also get flashbacks from Magda Kurtz, the catalyst character who sets the wolf amongst the pigeons. Magda's ill-fated expedition is necessary to the story but where it is placed further slows down getting to know Kate, Oliver and Angelica. Add to this that whenever anything mystical/magical happens everything in the real world seems to freeze and you get a very slow pace to the start of the book. The narrative finally does get going, Magda fulfills her purpose and goes on her way, but it takes a damn long time to get going.I wonder if the first half of the book - 1975 - couldn't have been folded into the second half of the book - 1995. That way Hand could have slowly revealed what had happened in the past and thus prevented readers from guessing what seemed to me to be the obvious fate of one of the characters from 1975. Not to drop any spoilers, but when a mysterious figure shows up in 1995 it was instantly obvious to me that this was a character from 1975. If 1975 events had been slowly mixed with 1995 events it would have made it much harder or at least would have greatly delayed me guessing the 'big reveal' that doesn't happen until the final climax. The novel's plot centers around a ritual. The problem I often have with mythical stories, a problem I had with 'Waking the Moon', is that I didn't feel like Kate had any vital human choice or action to push the plot forward. In a novel I want the main character to do something. Here it felt like a bad Christmas dinner where your alienated family invites you to dinner to 'act' your part for the feast and then go away again. Kate had her part in the climax, but it felt generic and not particular to her character.The only reason I know that Kate is the main character is that the book alternates between her first person narration and a third person limited narration that switches between other characters in the book. But Kate's character, while engaging in someways - I like her romance later in the book - is so passive that she needs a first person 'I' to let the reader know she is special.I really like that Hand uses a thriller structure with a dark Goddess villain to deal with a subject matter that would usually turn readers off: the patriarchal basis of Western culture for the past 3,000 plus years and the return of matriarchal ways. Usually this type of binary thought would be pretty dreadful for a work of fiction, but Hand isn't either/or and in the tradition of true artists wants to chart an individual and messily organic path. Her method doesn't work for the structure but there is lots of good stuff in this brew.
3995062301	It is a lie that I finished this, because around page 250 I was getting very bored with it and just decided to skim through the rest to find out the broad strokes of what happened (and it was exactly what I thought would happen). Anyway, I liked this novel to begin with, always a fan of strange gothic universities with statues of angels and secret societies etc., but this book was published in the early 90's and well.... It has a VERY 90's flavour of new age/witchiness/sacrificial magic to it and it indulged in every single trope of that genre, which was fun at first but really tiresome after a while. Also, I don't think the mixing between first and third person narrative worked particularly well, and the pacing was sluggish - not as in deliberately slow, more like bogged down with unnecessary passages and even whole chapters that should have been cut. Had this book been 200 pages shorter, it might have been just fine.I think 2021 has officially become my year of not finishing books.
3106614973	It was my first book by Elizabeth Hand and I can say that she's the author worth keeping my eye on. Though I didn't like everything in this novel there was a lot of things that captivated me. Firstly, I think it had an amazing atmosphere of dread and danger that kept lurking from the shadows and made me sometimes feel afraid. I also liked the theme of cults and god and goddessess.But a plot was in places too weird even for me. Also I somehow couldn't relate to characters. I didn't care about Sweeney and she was main protagonist so the most of the story was from her PoV. Actually the only person I actually liked was Annie, she seemed to be the only sensible one in there. Another thing that annoyed me was too much incantations that made a novel a little too long. Also, the romance subplot was weird and I didn;t like it.
3662818291	Ugh. If I had read this when it came out in the mid-90s, when I was in high school, I would probably have eaten this up in a major 90s way. Goddess cults, whimsical handsome Oliver, a drabbish girl befriended by the most mysterious and attractive people in college, dark academia...but middle-age me doesn't have very strong feelings, except for annoyance at the constant descriptions of how hot Angelica is (according to white conventional standards), and at how the story gets lost in the extremely purple prose.
3629918108	After reading Wylding Hall last year, I thought I needed to read more by Elizabeth Hand. Five books later, I realize I need to read everything she's written (or going to write). This is a multi-layered beauty, disturbing and engrossing, and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in mythology, fantasy, dark academia, and/or Gothic storytelling.
7213742984	I love books with important, timeless morals, such as, "be bisexual in college, and then 20 yrs from now destiny will deliver unto you a stone cold ten".
7981398270	DNFsorry maar dit boek wilt veel te intellectueel zijn zonder een goede schrijfstijl te hebben + ik wist niet wat er aan de hand was en had ook geen zin het uit te zoeken
464360082	Once upon a time in college, this book was recommended as something I'd be into. It was the 90s, and we were all striding through a world so feminist that we weren't expected to become homemakers, we were taking sips of non-christian religious ideas from buddhism to wicca, and flannel and combat boots and clove cigarettes were had by all. I didn't read this book then, when I was young and forming my ideas of how the world and I fit together. 20 something years after Waking the Moon was a cult classic, we were properly introduced, and I'm swamped with a wave of nostalgia for both who I was and who the world was.The first half of the book is set in the 70s, when a teenage Sweeney leaves the bland comfort of childhood for college in the big city. There's a stately old gothic dorm, cocktail hour parties, eccentric professors, an ancient secret society of magicians, and the need to clean up after blood sacrifice all presented as rather matter-of-fact because JFC that's what college was like, the first hint that the world was a hell of a lot bigger than what you were raised to know, and when deeply weird shit went down you just had to roll with it because you were in way over your head. Flash forward to 20 years later, and Ms Cassidy lives the bland comfort of a middle-management position 9-to-5. A Sedona crystals & goddess empowerment guru is on the TV, acid rain is a problem, and there's mentions of the plague that's killed some friends (AIDS isn't mentioned by name, but in 1995 it certainly wouldn't have to be). While it's been easy to sink into the good-enough of this version of herself, when the magic of old friends & lovers kicks the door wide open, her soul is more than ready to sing (and, y'know, confront eternal evil). Waking the Moon tells a beautifully dreamy and lushly written story liberally splashed with gore (remembering how the Dell/Abyss horror novels of the 90s went, this too is a hallmark of the era), and oh wow is it a time machine. I probably would have devoured this as a jaded 90s 20-something know-it-all, but wouldn't really have understood the dying-by-degrees older version of the protagonist. With her age on me now, I can feel both the youthful naivete that swept her up in circumstance, as well as the compromises she's made to come out generally ok (even when shit gets deeply weird again). There's rough edges and startlingly uncomfortable choices on display in these pages, and in my experience things so firmly a product of their time never age well, but this is magically richer than it would have been in my youth.
537433161	On Sweeney's first day at the University of the Archangels and St. John the Divine, she's improbably befriended by Oliver, enigmatic and fey, and Angelica, gorgeous and strong-willed. A normal girl chosen by two remarkable individuals, she's pulled into the heart of their troubles as an otherworldy divine battle begins to brew. Waking the Moon is the sort of bold which often lapses into heavy-handed, an uneven but undeniably powerful book. Sweeney is an intentionally unlikely protagonist, an effect which doesn't always work: she has character, standing out even in a strong and varied cast, but not enough agency. The narrative hops awkwardly between first and third person, but Hand's voice is lush and strong, her plot intelligent, willfully violent, and often tense; in its best moments this book is chilling. But its most evocative aspects are often the least explored--an early doorway into a haunting alien plain; the deceptively insidious Benandanti; the powerful but rushed climax which leaves the book's themes dangling, unfinished. What's provided in droves instead is a pointed but ham-fisted feminist reconstruction of the divine--brilliantly intentioned but demanding more subtlety than the rushed climax allows. This is the sort of book I want to love, but don't quite--yet can still appreciate, both for what it attempts and what it achieves. It carries a number of caveats, but I recommend it.
518008088	This is one of those books that is quite brilliantly written but leaves you thinking. In that sense, it is also hard to write a review for, as I still feel this book running around my head. I suppose that means it's a great book, which I am inclined to believe.I finished Waking the Moon some time away and realised I had not written a review for it, so I peeked back through the book. We have goddesses that kiss butt, matriarchal and patriarchal socities, blood and an ending that does not quite end. But then I think that may have been the point of it.The choice of how we treat women in a society has been a contentious point throughout history. Would a matriarchy treat women any differently or would it end up looking like a patriarchy anyway. Would the leaders be so caught up in leading, that even women would forget about equal rights?To sum up, this is a book that has been widely regarded which delves into some very deep themes. A very intriguing read.
5836905530	** spoiler alert ** This book was so beautifully written and interesting and DIFFERENT and I wanted to like it much more than I actually did. I guess it just went in a direction that seemed off somehow. Like it's supposed to be this feminist book but in the end the patriarchal oppressors are supposed to be the good guys saving society from the ancient goddess? Maybe it's making a point that I just don't get, something about how we have to embrace all aspects of women, to recognize our capability for evil as well as nurturing and whatnot to be really equal. Maybe the message is yes women ARE dangerous, which is fair, but it still wasn't a very pleasing ending. Also there's a fair bit of ick in this book for the squeamish, animal and human sacrifice, and weird sex stuff, things of that nature.
4692546007	Oh boy the nineties were wild. This is a simmering stew of college days, archaeological exploration, pagan mysteries, secret societies, sinister modern empowerment cults, human sacrifice, divine avatars, sex, drugs and folk-rock and roll. It's wild and weird and evocative, post feminist in the sense that the threat is the return of an ancient moon-goddess, but handled in a way that is not remotely misogynist. And this was all mixed up in 1995? Can't believe I missed it. WONDERFULLY read.
3919392602	wow.
132807999	Just came came off too dry for me.
4534320680	
4230043583	Very goth and very good!
389054	A chick's view of goth and horror. Big on the tease in many ways, but fails to deliver by story's end.
4288521918	Although this book was good, I liked it less than Blacklight. Set in the same universe, it seems to go over a lot of the same ground. Unfortunately, I am a bit over the rarified university campus setting. The players are always the same, precocious twenty somethings that are beautiful and mysterious, a plain outsider taken under their wing who escapes to tell the story and keep the torch burning for the dead or missing lovely ones. Usually they are interested in ancient mythology, Greek rites, archeology, underwater basket weaving, something arcane that indicates how smart and special they are. Donna Tart did it best, why do the rest of them bother.
3030232090	Elizabeth Hand is just so damn cool. While it's a serious-ish novel, it had me laughing out loud at points with her sharp character descriptions and her caustic satire of the new age industry. This book breaks down so many fantasy tropes around women, and reverses some of the toxic tropes often found in university stories (i.e. older male professors finding themselves by sleeping with their students). Also Oliver is totally the guy I would have been moping after at university. My only criticism is that it's a little long, but the audio book got me through a 14 hour road trip.
2465230592	De laatste 20 pagina’s niet willen lezen, omdat je weet dat het daarna klaar is. Toch gedaan.
4791510872	4 stars, a fascinating book despite an uneven back halfI kind of love this dark and creepy book, full of mysterious magic and secret societies with hidden agendas. The sense of atmosphere is astonishing and the prose is frequently just as great. Waking the Moon is also a fascinating relic of the 90s, stepped in exploration of the feminism of the time period and goddess worship while also being extremely thoughtful about what it means to be a woman or even what gender is. However, for all those good points, the plotting of the novel is occasionally pretty weak. After a tense, spellbinding first half, the story slows to a meandering crawl where very little happens for long stretches at a time. It also doesn't help that the main character becomes incredibly passive and uninvolved for most of that latter part of the book and has to be dragged in against her will in the literal last chapter of the book to actually help with the issue at hand.However, in spite of those pretty serious flaws, I enjoyed much of what I read and really appreciate what a different kind of story Hand went for here. It's not a perfect book, but I think there's something truly special and great about it in bursts.
1935830921	I had such an uneven relationship with this book. I wouldn't call it love/hate, because my feelings towards weren't necessarily that strong, but I'll try to articulate why it both irritated me while being exceptionally easy to read. 1. The writing itself is uneven. You will read the phrase "sandalwood and oranges" many, many times and you will know what every character smells like. When Hand is describing archaeology digs and spiritual rituals, her writing is specific, visual, and suspenseful. When she's describing college students, it's redundant, weighed down with detail, and (like many college narratives) romanticized to the point that believability becomes an issue. Some parts of this book read EPICALLY, and others read as high-grade Harry Potter fan-fiction. The fact that there are literal typos in the work lead me to believe that its editing was less than stellar.2. The work does not complicate or interrogate gender binaries in a meaningful way. Hand is a feminist - for sure, some parts of the work (especially discussions of academia as a boys' club) feel immediate and clear. That being said, the entire work is built around structures of men/light/order and women/darkness/chaos. Initially, I thought these structures were being set into motion as a part of a larger discussion, but there is no discussion: they are what they are and the work relies on them to further its plot. If this opacity makes you tilt your head, you will likely struggle with this work (and in particular, its resolution) for the same reasons I did. 3. The prose CONSTANTLY FETISHIZES WOMEN'S BODIES. Remember the McSweeney's article on the way men write women? This book does that. There are lots of plump breasts and ethereal locks of hair and, of course, the "goddess" figure is thin, traditionally beautiful, white-presenting, and wealthy. For a work so invested (and knowledgeable!) of goddess cultures around the world, it does very little to update the "look" of the goddesses that we see to make it more global or intersectional. I am sick of thin, white girls having magical powers. I suppose you could read the work as beauty being used for exactly the *oppose* purposes of what it's prescribed for - i.e., violence versus compliance, agency versus objectification - but the text is overwhelmingly more concerned with the way women LOOK than the way they EXPERIENCE their own bodies, and that feels outdated - *that* feels objectifying. /endrantUltimately, I read this book quickly, and it intrigued me enough for me to want to know how it ended. But when I got there, and so many concepts of gender and beauty were accepted "as is," I felt incredibly let down and far more critical of the way this text engaged women characters more generally.
5130851250	** spoiler alert ** I first read this book in a desperate attempt to find something that satisfied me as much as Pamela Dean’s Tam Lin. This book did not fill the bill. “Waking the Moon” is… odd. If you asked me what it was about, I would have to say it’s a warning against goddess worship and feminism. The main plot is about our bland main character Sweeney Cassidy, the strange fey black-haired young man she befriends/falls in love with, Oliver, and Angelica, the beautiful young woman she also kind of falls in love with. Angelica becomes a vessel or channeller for some form of Ancient Cretean(?) goddess worship, which very quickly escalates to human sacrifice, Oliver castrating himself, and Sweeney being expelled. Nothing much happens afterward other than Angelica roams around becoming a famous empowerment guru who kills people with her moon-shaped necklace, Sweeney leads a sad little life, and Oliver is missing. Ultimately Sweeney is told that basically Angelica is going to unleash Goddess worship on the world and that’s bad because Goddess worship is irrational and chaotic and will overturn all the math and science oh noes.Eventually there’s a final battle in which we learn that Oliver became a castrated priestess of the Goddess, which somehow allows him to thwart Angelica’s plans enough that the math and science survives yay. Was Sweeney important? Not in the least! It’s an odd book.
304262653	I'm on either my third or fourth copy of Waking the Moon, I can't remember which. I first read it eleven years ago, loaned it to everyone I thought might be remotely interested, sometimes didn't get it back, and never felt quite right when I didn't have it on my shelf. This is one of my Desert Island Books.The plot revolves around Sweeney Cassidy, an insecure college freshman who goes wild in her first semester away from home. She skips classes, stays out all night, and drinks staggering amounts of alcohol. Into this haze come the ethereal, effeminate Oliver and the seductive queen-bee Angelica, who become her best friends, and with both of whom Sweeney falls in love.Sweeney has more on her plate than hangovers and term papers, however. Angelica turns out to be the chosen avatar of a long-forgotten goddess, and the college is controlled by the... Read More:http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
44247043	This was my favorite book for a good 10 years...it probably is still my favorite book. I first read it in the 90s, checked it out at the Flagstaff Public Library and then brought it along to Petrified Forest National Park while I was there working. I was staying in park housing, and I had a 4-bedroom place all to myself (it was between interns coming in) and it was spooky and wonderful and amazing to read in that environment (it was so quiet and deserted, and I still remember lying in bed and reading it and being a little freaked out, but not wanting to turn out the light and put the book down). The delightful novel is a mix of coming of age/first year of college, goddess mythology, academia, archaeology, and life after college. It really hit all my buttons in 1996.
76958746	Rereading this book... read it when it was first out in the early nineties after loving Hand's earlier Winterlong trilogy. Didn't like this as much at the time because it couldn't compete with the overabundance of wow that were Liz Hand's science fiction - including Mars Hill, I suppose.In retrospect: I have two favorite writers, Liz Hand and Guy Kay. Kay's novel Tigana features this crazy Benandanti vignette based on Carlo Ginzburg's historical writing in Night Battles, and the Benandanti in Waking the Moon offer a great companion to this. If I was going to recommend a first book to read by Hand, I would suggest Glimmering or Mortal Love because both of these are steeped in wow. Or Winterlong, which still ranks in my 5 or so favorite books.
32738294	Elizabeth Hand, I've decided, is the kind of writer who, every time her characters are outside, describes the sky.And they're outside a lot. And she always has such lovely descriptions. And wonderful characters. But the things she writes are so very odd, so very borderline - plots you'd find in mainstream supernatural thriller novels with characters and prose (maybe sometimes leaning towards the purpose but I like that) you'd find in literary novels - so I just don't know who I'd recommend her stuff to. Check out the heavily mixed reviews she has on amazon and you'll see some of this in action. Anyway, I liked this particular book and it's wonderful for the above reasons, but for the little that actually happens it feels weirdly long and meandering. (But what an awesome meander!)
1196611782	So, I really thought I,d like this a lot more than I did...its a great idea for a book, tye writing is there, but it somehow kind of falls flat.None of the characters ring realy true. I remember actually wondering if maybe she put her own college friends into the story, and then had them act out the roles of the story. There was just such a maudlin flavor to it all.And I didn't really buy the happy ending. It just seemed implausible. What was going on with the benandanti protection was obvious to me., which made Sweeneys obliviousness a little suspect, and the final showdown scene seemed more accidental than anything else.
468363869	It's hard for me to pick a 'favorite' book, but this would be one of the top contenders.Dark, enchanting, lush prose draws the reader into a world where ancient forces and dark tides are rising. I fall in love with this book and the characters who inhabit it every time I read it, and the themes of love, sensuality, sacrifice, womanhood, and wantonness are always compelling.I hate to give away too much of the plot, so I'll just say -- read it and weep and rejoice, because it will cause you to do both.
563285366	I recently read a book that reminded me how much I loved this book. Not because that book was any good, (it kinda sucked)but because it had a similar title. This book doesn't suck, I can still remember parts of it after 10+ years. I loved how I just fell into its dark, lush, gothic, creepy goodness. There was mystery, sacrifice, horror, a chick cult secretly controlling world leaders while holding awesome girl power toga parties, which an actual goddess may or may not have attended.;-) Dammit, thanks to that sorta sucky book, I may have to do a re-read.
7597685380	MORE MYTH THAN REALITYBut still LOTS of fun.I'm not familiar with myths this old, so old they predate Mount Olympus.But the idea of matriarchal society isn't new to me. Land in the Cherokee nation was owned only by women. War could only be declared by women of the Plains Indians because women had the most to lose.The book proposes than an ancient female goddess could unite the women of the world in a horrific manner.It's spellbinding.
309925784	This is a book that I consider a must-read for any woman. It delves into old religions and poses the question of why are things the way are today? The book follows Sweeney Cassidy from her college days where she first meets the people that will shape her life so dramatically to a bittersweet conclusion/new beginning. I experienced several ah-ha moments reading this book and it has led me to foray into other books or literature that I never knew existed.
49387847	I recommend this book who like their fantasy set on this planet, during modern times - and you have to be a bit cynical, too, imo. I love Hand's lyrical, lush writing, the improbably reality the story's set in, how the characters are developed and the worlds they inhabit (even if I don't want to share those worlds). The climax, imo, was overwrought & somehow clumsy, but the book dénouement was decently done, and overall, the book is definitely worth reading.
2428886319	Lovely and creepy, if a bit overdone at times. I was very happy to see bisexual characters dropped in without judgment (the trans characters might have had a better time of it today, but by standards of 20 years ago when this book was written, they were probably well-treated). I appreciated DC presented from the point of view of a resident without politics; it rarely happens, and here I even got to see a bar I frequent mentioned.
2121039178	This is one of my all time favorite books. It is so well written, so intense. I've read it at least 20 times and every single time it gets to me. Ms. Hand is phenomenal in my opinion. This book is one that I will always read. It is like an old friend. I feel as if I know these characters, and the mythology in the book is utterly terrifying. I cannot say enough wonderful things about this book or Ms. Hand. She is genius, pure genius!
2496136025	I read this in the summer of '95, as I was completing my dissertation for my degree course in English literature. I got my copy from Waterstones in Birmingham city centre.I loved the characters, the imagery, the amazing educational establishment that the characters attended. And the unrequited feelings of the characters.
754129154	This book is awesome, but the best part about it, for me, is that I randomly found my copy--it was lying in the empty street in the French Quarter in New Orleans, in front of the Hotel Villa Convento. Picked it up, read it on the drive home, was not disappointed in any way. This is THE book you want to find lying in the street waiting for you to pick it up.
4635986250	This isn't a perfect book, but it is so good that it warrants the five star rating. This is the second book by Hand that I've read, and I am definitely looking forward to reading more from her! (Though I'd still love to know more about what happened to Magda and the role that the Benedati played in keeping things in the status quo!)
347366346	I have read this book many times since it came out. Elizabeth Hand is an extraordinary writer. I have yet to find anyone to compare to her. I suggest this book to everyone I know, and none of my friends have been disappointed.
1983129482	Forever my all-time favorite novel. I read it years ago when it was first published, and have re-read it many times since then.What a wonderful story line, with coming-of-age backgrounds, frank discussions about the realities of religious worship, and the general male-centricity of the world.
1896429368	Wow. What an intense book. Creative, imaginative, populated with people well drawn and complex, and a setting that, for me, dredged up a lot of personal history.Secret societies, goddess cults, complex personal relationships, all conspire to wake the moon.
156967728	A love triangle, the foibles of youth, and the annals of ancient goddess cults form the backbone of this story. One woman stands against another, man stands against woman, light against dark. Don't be discouraged by the slow start; it's more important than it seems.
3354309370	This book is one you will want to read time and time again. It reveals itself in layers and that's what keeps it exciting. One of the best books I have ever read or had the pleasure of enjoying on multiple occasions! Thank you Elizabeth!
4177628998	An unexpected pleasure. This is my first Elizabeth Hand novel and it is sure not to be my last. It is long and complex, but I really enjoyed it. Hand obviously has an extensive knowledge of mythology and weaves that knowledge into her characters and story as a whole.
2624424110	I would really like to read a book that centers on queer women and goddess worship and isn’t quite so...murdery.
786676488	One of my favorite novels. I keep foisting it off on people.
