3741573179	I’m not usually a fan of short story collections, so I was a little hesitant going into this book. But I actually really enjoyed it!Collected Ghost Stories is a classic collection of ghost stories by M.R. James. Argued to be the inspiration behind ghost/horror stories as we know them.As a slight warning, if you go into this book expecting to be scared then you are likely to be disappointed. What did jump out at me was the beauty of M.R. James’ writing. This book is a classic, and like all classics I’ve read it’s not necessarily easy to read. But after the first page or so I was really able to get into each story and it became much easier to read. I don’t actually have a favourite from this collection, all of the stories were strong in their own way. There was one that gave me slight goosebumps and did creep me out though! I also loved being able to pick this book up when I only had a short period of reading time. This has taught me not to avoid short story collections anymore, because I may find a gem like this one! I would recommend this to anyone who is a fan of classics and horror!
222790401	Montague Rhodes James brings the classic British understatement to the field of horror stories and makes them terrifying beyond imagination. His writing is without any frills; there is very little by the way of atmosphere-building; and the stories themselves seem to be an odd form of reportage. By going against convention, M. R. James creates a nightmare world which is more frightening than that of any of his more traditional contemporaries. He is helped in this by his encyclopaedic knowledge of Church History.James' ghosts are most exclusively European, mostly British. They emanate from the Celtic woodlands of pre-Roman Britain, and inhabit the wooded copses and cavernous churches of the English countryside. Often the protagonist is a scholarly enquirer who stumbles upon unwelcome and potentially dangerous knowledge in the course of his enquiries, and his journey, along with the story, slowly descend into a madness equalling that of Lovecraft, but in a gentlemanly, English way.I would rank Casting the Runes at the very top of these gems. This story has given me delicious nightmares ever since I first encountered it during my teens. "Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad" is another story which stays in the mind. Mind you, that does not mean the others are lesser-these are just personal favourites.Curl up in your favourite corner during a rainy night, listen to the wind howling in the rafters, and read these stories preferably in dim light. That is, if you dare...
2624518273	I’m so glad that the BBC have decided to revive their ‘Ghost Stories for Christmas’ series, spooky tales in dark cold winters nights are just perfect.With the majority of stories chosen to adapt were by M. R. James, I only felt it was right to finally tackle he’s creepy tales during the lead up to the festive season.There’s so many great stories in this collection, my favourites being Lost Hearts, Number 13, ‘Oh, Whistle, and I’ll Come to You, My Lad’, Casting the Runes and A View from a Hill.I read one or two a night, it soon become a nightly treat after a day at work.Anyone who loves spooky stories will certainly find plenty to enjoy.Most of the episodes are available on YouTube and was fun to watch after reading that story.I’m looking forward to this years tale (though its original story written by Mark Gatiss this time), along with repeats of Lost Hearts and The Ash Tree.These really are timeless classics!
507642881	M. R. James is considered the master of the Victorian ghost story and this collection contains most of his short stories. I liked it, but be warned, modern readers who have gotten their scares from likes of Steven King will probably be disappointed. James is a subtle and understated writer and his stories are masterpieces of tone and atmosphere, but usually bloodless, with a lot left to the reader’s imagination. Take, for example, this excerpt from “The Treasure of Abbott Thomas”:“Well, I felt to the right, and my fingers touched something curved, that felt--yes--more or less like leather; dampish it was, and evidently part of a heavy, full thing. There was nothing, I must say, to alarm one. I grew bolder, and putting both hands in as well as I could, I pulled it to me, and it came. It was heavy, but moved more easily than I expected. As I pulled it towards the entrance, my left elbow knocked over and extinguished the candle. I got the thing fairly in front of the mouth and began drawing it out. Just then Brown gave a sharp ejaculation and ran quickly up the steps with the lantern. He will tell you why in a moment. Startled as I was, I looked round after him, and saw him stand for a minute at the top and then walk away a few yards. Then I heard him call softly, “All right, sir,” and went on pulling out the great bag, in complete darkness. It hung for an instant on the edge of the hole, then slipped forward on to my chest, and put its arms round my neck”.This is classic James. The narrator is on a narrow staircase and quickly finds himself in complete darkness and alone with some THING. Only vague descriptions are given of the thing: “I can only just manage to tell you now the bare outline of the experience. I was conscious of a most horrible smell of mould, and of a cold kind of face pressed against my own, and moving slowly over it, and of several--I don’t know how many--legs or arms or tentacles or something clinging to my body. I screamed out, Brown says, like a beast, and fell away backward from the step on which I stood, and the creature slipped downwards”. James is content to let the reader fill in the rest of the details of what the creature looks like, knowing that the reader’s own imagination would paint a far scarier picture than anything a writer could dream up.The horror in his stories is most often even more subtle: it’s the tapping at the window in the dead of night, the faint sounds of scratching at a closed bedroom door, the extinguishing of a candle in the middle of a darken hallway, and the nearby sounds of rustling when you think you are alone in your bed. The writing is a bit old-fashioned which is to be expected for stories written in the late 1800’s and very British with class distinctions mentioned quite often. My only criticism is that there is a very subtle prejudice against Roman Catholics in several of the stories.While there are a few duds in the collection, overall the quality of the stories is high. Some of the standouts are “The Ash Tree”, “Casting The Runes”, “The Mezzotint”, and “Oh, Whistle, and I’ll Come to You, My Lad”. A number of the stories have been adapted for both TV and the movies. “Casting the Runes” was made into a movie called “Night of the Demon” back in the 50’s and the plot of “The Mezzotint” was adapted by the old TV show Night Gallery effectively. The plot of “The Mezzotint” is classic: a painting of a house slowly changes each night showing a creature leaving a nearby graveyard and making it’s way closer and closer to the house at each viewing. It’s a plot that’s very creepy on the page and equally creepy in the TV adaptation.If you’re patient, the book offers some thrills and chills and a chance to become familiar with an influential author.
197718175	Since it was his birthday recently, I decided to re-read the ghost stories of M.R. James, and I learned a few things. First, that I had not, apparently, read all the stories in this volume previously, like I thought I had, because there were some I didn't remember. Second, that even among the stories I had read there were parts that I had forgotten. And third, that M.R. James is King Shit of Space-Cat Mountain even more amazing than I had remembered.Widely regarded as maybe the best ghost story writer of all time, having re-read these stories, and read some of them for the first time, all I can say is: Yes, yes he is. These stories are often so close to exactly what I long for whenever I pick up a ghostly story. James' easy voice, suited to the stories being read aloud, is perfect, and he can create an unsettling atmosphere or a creepy image with only a word or two. He seems to almost always know what to suggest and what to leave out entirely, and the haunts here are among the spookiest you'll ever encounter.I always remember that I like James, but somehow I sometimes seem to forget just how much. Hopefully this will serve as a permanent reminder.
346601017	M.R. James can be difficult for the modern reader, but his stories are worth the effort for the atmosphere alone. "Whistle and I'll Come to you My Lad" is probably my favorite, and I'm far from alone. This creepy story involves old ruins, a found whistle with a strange inscription, and an unused bed that is suddenly no longer empty. "An Episode of Cathedral History" Is what a vampire story shoudl be. This one does not glitter. Stephen King once wrote that James' ghosts were harmless; I wonder if he'd forgotten "A Warning to the Curious", which concerns a guardian of sorts who is not to be trifled with. There are many more stories involving hair-and-bones demons, a ghost whose appearance is signaled by the appearance of sawflies, a room that appears and disappears, a mezzotint that becomes an early moving picture, and many others. James remains my favorite horror author. His wordy, dense stories tell horrifying original tales that stick with you, sometimes invading your dreams. Just a note: as this is not the edition I own, I can't guarantee that it features the same stories. My volume is the complete edition of James' ghost stories.
7943175152	Of the three short story collections I read during September / October this was by far my favourite. It was so easy to lose myself in these supremely written, atmospheric. unsettling chillers, and don my posh Edwardian reading voice. For those interested, you can listen to the wonderful Michael Horden reading these stories on YouTube, and I baked the most amazing loaf of bread while doing just that. If anyone asked the question "name one book everyone should own", it would be this one, or maybe The Labybird book of Llamas.
1155483640	Montague Rhodes James (1862 - 1936) was a distinguished mediaevalist scholar who during his lifetime published many works of academic significance. However, two generations on, he is best remembered, and deservedly so, as the master of the ghost story. He started writing tales in this form as an entertainment for his friends and colleagues, beginning in 1893 with Canon Alberic’s Scrapbook. A tradition was subsequently acquired of reading a new ghostly tale to his chums each Christmas - the darkest period of the year seems to lend itself perfectly to such a practice. Imagine, after a shared festive meal, they adjourn to James’s candlelit study, and all but one of the candles having been extinguished, allowing James just enough light to read his handwritten manuscript, he begins. It must have been such a thrilling experience to be one of the first to hear him read a classic like Oh, Whistle and I’ll Come to You My Lad (certainly one of my favourites!), which was delivered in this way to friends and colleagues in December 1903.Personally, I think the thing that makes James’s writing so memorable is what he doesn’t choose to tell us - he is economical with his descriptions and in this way he never ‘over-eggs the pudding’. His ghostly manifestations are almost invariably shrouded in a mist, half-seen imaginings, a spidery or tentacle-like arm, a hideously deformed face partly glimpsed through the corner of one eye, a pair of red eyes watching from the dense shadows of a cloister. James often narrates in the first person; however, he is generally telling us a story he was once ‘told’ by an acquaintance or is passing on something that once happened to a colleague. He adopts almost a documentary approach, and deliberately omits chunks of time that are not absolutely essential to the story he’s relating to us. I think this lack of embellishment in the storytelling is fundamental to the effectiveness of his style. We are never going to experience any passage written by James that sounds anything like this: “The ghoulish creature staggered out of the darkness, and where its eyes had once been there were now only gaping pits of raw flesh, oozing with greyish-green slime ...” He is much more likely to describe something along the lines of an impenetrably dense shadow that has inexplicably appeared beside a tomb from where his protagonist thinks he may have caught the tiniest movement or perhaps heard a small, dry, laugh. I know which of these two examples makes my hair go tingly!If you’re looking for a gory thrill-fest, then M R James is probably not for you. These are stories to curl up with on a winter’s evening beside a cosy fireside while the wind outside is rattling at the window panes. The language is of its time, of course, however, James isn’t given to verbosity, and his stories skip along at a thoroughly enjoyable pace. When I read these tales I felt that James was simply having a great deal of fun and that he wanted to communicate this pleasure with me, his reader. I can highly recommend them.
2480484646	Video reviewAll shits and giggles until HAIRY SPIDER DEMON.Especially relevant to scholars and academics: who hasn't considered hexing that very impolite peer reviewer who bashed your essay so cruelly?
708460437	My view of this author changed considerably in the course of my reading of this collection. I embarked on it as a follow-up to the magnificent Tales of Hoffmann, and, at first, by comparison, it seemed distinctly lightweight, though engaging and fun to read. I became more and more intrigued by these stories as I went along, though. They’re deceptively simple, and M. R. himself quite determinedly played down their importance in his few critical remarks on them (“The stories … do not make any very exalted claim”). There is a lot to them, however, singly and, still more, collectively. I read an academic article when I finished reading throwing the combined weight of Benjamin, Baudrillard, Derrida, and Kristeva at them (Penny Fielding, “Reading Rooms: M. R. James and the Library of Modernity”, MFS Modern Fiction Studies, 46/3 (2000)), and it didn’t seem at all a case of using a hammer to crack a nut. M. R. James was a medieval historian and bibliophile—he’s still a familiar name in Cambridge as he compiled the first modern catalogues of the college libraries (all of them, incredibly enough)—and there’s something rather donnish in his style. Academics, antiquarians, librarians, book-collectors are the protagonists of many of his stories; typically, they make some kind of discovery in the course of their researches that unlocks an evil force from the distant or proximate past. These stories are conventionally described as ghost stories, but the evils unleashed are just as often demons or fiends or nameless horrors as they are conventional ghosts. The genre is really more “curse of the Pharoah” than ghost.Here’s how James describes his literary formula (the edition I used, Oxford World Classics’s Casting the Runes and Other Ghost Stories, has an interesting collection of his critical statements as an appendix):Let us … be introduced to the actors in a placid way; let us see them going about their ordinary business, undisturbed by forebodings, pleased with their surroundings; and into this calm environment let the ominous thing put out its head, unobtrusively at first, and then more insistently, until it holds the stage.He emphasizes pacing and crescendo here, and he’s a real master of them; in fact, his writing is generally excellent, in an unobtrusive kind of way. “Reticence” seems to be one of his key aesthetic principles, and at his best he exploits it brilliantly, pulling away from the horror at just the right moment to let your imagination take over and do the rest.The “ordinary business” of the stories, as James calls it, the scene-setting, can seem conventional to the point of banality—dusty old bachelors (or middle-aged bachelors or young bachelors) pottering round libraries, staying on their own in out-of-the-way seaside resorts, or entertaining themselves with a round of golf. The banality is the point, though, obviously; it’s the contrast between the stolidity of the protagonists and the uncanniness of the ancient horrors they unwittingly conjure up that is the pivot of the stories. The dynamic is that of the return of the repressed, and it’s perhaps not surprising that James’s nasties have such a distinctly sexual character (there’s a lot of hairiness and wetness and sliminess and dark holes—need I go on?) The article I cited above goes on about this at some length.One thing I found intriguing in the book, as a historian of sorts myself, was James’s inquest in these stories into his own profession. The protagonists are close enough to him in professional and lifestyle terms to function as self-parodies, and their impulse to unearth things best left unearthed (epitomized in the superb “A Warning to the Curious”) is clearly also some kind of parody of the curiosity about the past that fueled his own research. It is almost always physical artifacts from the past, of the type James was used to working with, that act as vehicles or triggers for the revenant horrors in these stories— books, an ancient whistle, a mezzotint, a maze, a stained-glass window. James conveys very well the intrinsic uncanniness of the past, and its undeadness, and the eerie charisma of its surviving physical relics. I remember discussing once with my students why handling old books is such a peculiar and compelling sensory experience. We didn’t get very far in analyzing it, but I think I could do better now having read James.
1300267965	I somehow prefer Victorian horror and ghost stories to anything modern, even though there are some modern horror authors that I like. In the oldie books, they didn't think they had to be 'clever' or gory in order to induce the creeps. The stories in this book are chilling and frightening, merely by the existence of the supernatural and the deliberate erasing out of the gore. My favourite has to be The Mezzotint, a story about a creepy painting that comes to life. Another one is The Diary of Mr. Poyntner, about a cloth pattern that proves to be not so benign as one would think. The others are just as entertaining and scary. What makes it more fun is that these stories usually are set in a very peaceful background where you wouldn't think anything bad ever happens. Except that it does. There are more than 30 short stories in the book, each more delightful than the last. But I found the last six or seven stories didn't really match up to the rest. They were too short and weren't really much of a story either, more like short sketches that were not too scary or interesting. So striking off one star. But otherwise, this book is a great collection of ghost stories, not for the faint of heart.
5608588876	Ơn giời đã đọc xong cuốn này hic hic đọc ebook nên không biết, mở goodreads mới biết gần 700 trang, thảo nào đọc một lèo xong bị bấn loạn đọc xong sợ quá phải lao đi dọn nhà, nhổ cỏ, bật Harry Styles cả tìm một cuốn tươi mát đọc giải độc :((Cái này không phải truyện ma mà là truyện quỷ bên Thiên chúa á. Dù tôi không quen thuộc với ma quỷ bên đó nhưng đọc tối chẳng dám đi ngủ mà đọc ngày thì đuội hết cả con người :(( Ba kiểu ma quỷ lưỡi dài máu me thì tôi chẳng sợ lắm đâu nhưng cái thể loại như The Ring với Monster kể điềm đạm tà tà thế này hãi lắm huhu Ông này giống bà Agatha á, viết rất dễ chịu, không cổ súy cái ác, thỉnh thoảng lại cho các đôi cưới nhau nữa =))) Đọc đỉnh lắm nhưng xin thề (lần thứ bao nhiêu không biết) là không đọc truyện ma nữa huhu nhát như thỏ đế mà bày đặt huhu
366538597	I had hoped that I would be scared. I really like to scare myself and laugh about it. When I saw the Orphanage, I couldn't open the bathroom door because I was frozen wondering what was on the other side. After watching Alien at home in the dark, my husband kidded me that they had just landed in our backyard as a roll of thunder broke out. I couldn't move!! And I loved it!But these are Victorian stories and I guess I've never really been scared by a story. They are written in a Victorian fashion, so I love the writing, just not the ghosts. Excuse the extensive quote, but here is the type of writing I am gushing over. Nothing is more common form in old-fashioned books than the description of the winter fireside, where the aged grandam narrates to the circle of children that hangs on her lips story after story of ghosts and fairies, and inspires her audience with pleasing terror. But we are never allowed to know what the stories were. We hear, indeed, of sheeted spectres with saucer eyes - and still more intriguing - of 'Rawhead and Bloody Bones' (an expression which the Oxford Dictionary traces back to 1550), but the context of these striking images eludes me.And so on. The stories are worth reading for the language if for nothing else. A few have their finer points because the ghost is something unexpected, but for the most part, you know the ending before you reach it. One of my favorites is "The Mezzotint" because it IS a ghost story, but it's NOT a ghost story. I liked the idea associated with this one.So, if you like Dickens and Scott and the Victorian writers, pick this up. It's a newly released edition of the Collected Stories.
1417804674	I was introduced to M.R. James after reading The Wordsworth Book Of Horror Stories - a gargantuan compilation of horror tales written between the eighteenth and twentieth centuries. It contained many obscure treasures by authors all over England, Europe and America. I even recall there being an Australian in there as well. Of course, the book was slow-going at times. But overall, I found it thrillingly scary and enchanting to read. Along with Bram Stoker's Dracula, it is what ignited my love not just for "pre-modern" horror fiction, but classic literature in general. I have never forgiven myself for giving the book away, since then, to some charity shop or perhaps my church, so that some other lucky schmuck can get hold of it. If anyone has this on their shelves, or ever comes across it in a second-hand bookstore, I would highly recommend buying it. It’s easily worth $50 at least, and yet I got it new for a mere twenty bucks. https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...Among many other literary greats like Doyle, Dickens, Le Fanu and Scrotum, this book featured an inconsistent concentration of James’s work. But all the better for it. I remember being mesmerised with almost every one of his stories. That was back in 2010 or somewhere thereof, and apart from reading Oh, Whistle once more in another compilation, I haven’t come across any of his stuff then. That is, until this book, which I was more than excited to read. Revisiting Dracula) a second time, the experience could not have been more rewarding, and I was certain that I would love this guy’s short but chilling work just as much, if not more, on reading it again. Unfortunately, things didn’t turn out quite that way. And it still hurts and baffles me to say this. But I don’t mean any disrespect to James, because this book was, by all means, most enjoyable, and often scary. It just didn’t live up to the greatness that I have, until now, attributed to his work. I understand that many still idolise him, and I suppose I still do as well. It’s just that I don’t think I would call him one of my favourites anymore. The point is, on revisiting what pretty much makes up the entirety his work, I found myself enjoying it hardly more than I have similar compilations of the likes of Rudyard Kipling, Robert Louis Stevenson, and Wilkie Collins. There were a number of really great stories, but overall I think most of them started to feel too repetitive and not altogether satisfying in the end.Firstly, I’ll just list my favourite ones, which I had nothing against. These were all genuinely creepy, or at least interesting. Lost Hearts - which I’m sure I hadn’t read before, and this one was quite creepy (I also liked the black humour in the story’s title). The Ash Tree was average at first, but the ending stayed with me a night or two. Number 13, again, was actually pretty average, but for a few little touches that made it hard to shake off (like, for instance, the image of that door suddenly opening slightly, and the arm reaching out and clawing at the air). Oh Whistle, And I’ll Come To You, My Lad, I always considered to be James’s equivalent of Bierce’s An Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge, in that it was certainly decent, but not deserving as being his most famous story, because he had several superior ones out there. Well, after reading this a third time - and alongside all his other stories - I think I’ll finally comply with the majority now. This probably is his best story. The Tractate Middoth and Casting The Runes were similar in that neither was all that frightening, but I certainly got involved in the character’s plight in each work. And then there was An Episode Of Cathedral History, which was actually another pretty freaky story - despite its quite unpromising title. These stories were all great. And, to be fair, there weren’t any bad entries in this book. But there were many that just seemed way too average to be given much thought or credit. Certain tropes of James become a little too noticeable when you read a large amount of his work in direct sequence. I found it kind of annoying how so many of his stories began on the “it happened to a friend of a friend of a colleague of mine” premise. Also, James was often very good at building suspense and setting his atmosphere perfectly ... only to break the subtlety by bringing some ludicrous "hairy monster" into the equation. (Many of his stories’ monsters were described as being covered in grey hairs, and wearing dark cloaks. I don't know what his problem was, but he was terrified of these things. God, it's a good thing he died before Star Wars came out). This was all fine the first couple of times, but after a while it got too silly to take seriously. I also found - and I could be overstepping here, holding my personal failings against him - that his descriptions of geographical landscapes were a bit dry and uninspired. I found myself having to pause and strain my mind to picture his locales more clearly, because he didn’t give me much, and what he did give me - things like the architectural features of churches and mansion exteriors - I just didn’t understand the anatomies for in the first place, and so found myself picturing, for most of these stories, backdrops no less vague than something presented in a high-school play. None of these are exactly major flaws, but they did get in the way of my relishing the book as much as I wanted to. But all in all, I still can’t bring myself to say anything against M.R. James. I still admire the man, and I still love his period of horror fiction. I just think that, in retrospect, reading the book from start to finish might not have been the best idea. Like pretty much all the greats, his work is more easily appreciated when consumed in smaller doses. After all, that is how he originally gave them to the world ... having his students gather around the fire each Christmas and relating a story prepared for the occasion. There are few ideas more appealing than being in on those private occasions. He must have given many young boy a nightmare in his day.
744399105	These stories took me back to my childhood, holidays at the beach in old houses, howling winds and the crashing of the waves at night. Four children whiling away the evening hours reading ghost stories from books borrowed from the local library. A childhood filled with the fairies and talking animals and tales of adventuring children garnered from the works of English authors who dominated our childish world view at that time.These ghost stories of M R James are the stuff of children's nightmares and fears, the lurking presence on the other side of the door, the hand that may grab you if you reach to close the window at night, the words of an ancient book which may or may not summon something dark and terrifying when read aloud by unsuspecting lips.By today's standards these stories do not manage to terrify but in the context of their time, when so much of life was yet to be subjected to the scrutiny of science and laid bare by the 20th century's media and entertainment revolution, they send a chill up the spine and send one scuttling quickly through darkened hallways to regain the perceived security of the light and warmth and comfort of one's own bedroom.M R James is truly the master of the chillingly accessible ghost story, the story that is told of someone not so different from oneself or one's acquaintance or family and in this way, probably the grandfather of the Urban Myth.
2631368748	Fab!!!But couldn’t read after sunset 😂
2216147998	This Wordsworth volume gathers together all but a tiny handful of M.R. James’s shorter and more obscure tales, and is such a treasure house of the supernatural and the uncanny that it is difficult for me to single out my favourite half a dozen tales, let alone a story that I could possibly say ranked above the others. That said, I find that the earlier tales in the book – those originally published as ‘Ghost Stories of an Antiquary’ in 1904 – are of a consistently higher quality than some of his later efforts, although there are undeniably gems amongst his later pieces such as ‘An Episode of Cathedral History,’ ‘A View from a Hill’, and ‘A Warning to the Curious’, that rank amongst the author’s best. Given the nature of his posthumous popularity, it would be interesting to know what James, being an accomplished mediaeval scholar, would have made of being remembered for a series of tales that he penned for personal amusement, rather than for his academic endeavours. For me, as well as for many others, the stories contained in this anthology represent a high watermark in the English ghost story tradition. Understatement and restraint are key to their effectiveness; they are atmospheric works of suggestion that lure the reader into a suspension of disbelief, with their success being as dependent upon what they do not show, as what they do. Such a style may not be as popular today as it once was, but for my tastes, this more genteel approach to ‘horror’ is one that resonates more profoundly than the plethora of formulaic works of vampire and zombie fiction, stripped of adverbs and adjectives, that casts its pall over the dulled imaginations of readers today.
37159228	this is one of my favourite books. i re-read it quite often. it is a wonderful combination of comfort and discomfort: of meals, and beds in country inns, leisurely pursuits pursued by fuddled englishmen; and then they find the inside of dark corners where unspeakable horrors hide, where unmade beds whistle up into frightening formless forms, and many an academic that has one last glass before he succumbs to the madness; sometimes his simply saying simple words aloud damning him.the fates, they swirl all around these stories. they remind you how quickly the world can turn on its head. also, holes have scary things inside them a lot of the time.
4775142196	These Victorian horror stories, from a master of the ghost genre, are an absolute treat. One caveat to consider, however, is that James relies on certain literary devices. This means that if you read his stories one after the other, you can almost predict what is going to happen, which takes away the surprise and effect. My advice? Read these stories occasionally, interleaving them with other books/stories, so that you don't spoil James's tales by anticipating his twists and turns.
106065200	I acquired an early love of ghost stories. In mentioning the work of M. R. James a recent contributor to my Ana the Imp blog reminded me just how much I love them, how much I love his work in particular. Montague Rhodes James, to give him his full name, was actually a specialist in medieval manuscripts and the provost of King’s College, Cambridge and then of Eton. But he is best remembered for his delicious tales of the supernatural.I say ghost stories but he really crosses boundaries, touching on less spectral, far more tangible forms of horror. His tales touch on discoveries of things best hidden, of secrets that should never be told, of forces uncovered by antiquarians from which they recoil, unable to close that which has been opened; marvellous stories like Count Magnus, A Warning to the Curious, Lost Hearts, The Treasure of Abbot Thomas and Whistle and I’ll come to you; even writing the titles brings a tingle of remembrance! I first came across them in an anthology that father has in his library, one of the books from his own Eton days. I delight in recalling the terrors in reading the stories by torchlight under my duvet after lights out, stopping at every creak and imagined noise! Sir John Betjeman, also a lover of these stories, had a similar early encounter;In the year 1920 I was a new boy at the Dragon school, Oxford, then called Lynam's, of which the headmaster was C. C. Lynam, known as 'the Skipper'. He dressed and looked like an old Sea Salt, and in his gruff voice would tell us stories by firelight in the boys' room of an evening with all the lights out and his back to the fire. I remember he told the stories as having happened to himself.…they were the best stories I ever heard, and gave me an interest in old churches, and country houses, and Scandinavia that not even the mighty Hans Christian Andersen eclipsed.Skipper was being wonderfully disingenuous because, as Betjeman later discovered, the stories he was claiming as his own reality were in fact the fictions of James. But I can’t think of a more delightful way of discovering them, adding a verisimilitude that must have amplified one’s sense of terror. I’m older now; the childish fears have gone, the seduction of fear has gone, though the memory remains. I could never forget Count Magnus; never forget the terrible pursuit through time and distance of poor scholarly Mister Wraxall, who disturbed those who never should have been disturbed;People still remember last year at Belchamp St Paul how a strange gentleman came one evening in August years back; and how the next morning but one he was found dead, and there was an inquest; and the jury that viewed the body fainted, seven of 'em did, and none of 'em wouldn't speak to what they see, and the verdict was visitation of God; and how the people as kep' the 'ouse moved out that same week, and went away from that part. But they do not, I think, know that any glimmer of light has ever been thrown, or could be thrown, on the mystery. It so happened that last year the little house came into my hands as part of a legacy. It had stood empty since 1863, and there seemed no prospect of letting it; so I had it pulled down, and the papers of which I have given you an abstract were found in a forgotten cupboard under the window in the best bedroom.
2138999874	Classic and highly rereadable selection of arguably the most all-round consistent 'golden age' period horror master's oeuvre. While one must focus almost solely on Arthur Machen's 1890s output, whittle Algernon Blackwood's vast output down to a small selection of outright masterpieces of terror or dig around for Walter de la Mare's always excellent, but unfortunately scattered and few, horror stories from his varied career, M. R. James' horror stories are satisfyingly presented in a volume of sufficient consistency and length. His opening Ghost Stories of an Antiquary selection is an astoundingly perfect collection, and each story reaches an acknowledged level of exceptionally high quality not worth expounding upon at the present time considering the wealth of online resources on James. His second collection is almost as good.I agree with the fans and critics that later stories were less consistently well-honed, with one or two stories in each collection I'm less keen on than usual, but every single story here has at least something to learn from and cherish. Such stories as 'A Warning to the Curious', 'An Episode of Cathedral History', 'Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance', 'A View from a Hill', 'Rats' and 'Wailing Well' make even late Monty James nevertheless worth seeking out. I'm even partial to the rather unusual and fantastical talking owl story 'After Dark in the Playing Fields' and the de la Mare-esque intimacy of 'A Vignette'.
194409708	I find James's tales deeply compelling, yet at times unsatisfying. He is unmatched in my experience at providing atmosphere and 'setting a stage'. With most of the works included here I was quickly drawn into a delicious world of Victorian academics and antiquaries afield in remote, small towns; along lonely seashores; or about routine pursuits -- all of which were overhung by exquisite melancholy and an expectation of the strange or the perilous. Too often, however, the denouement proved awkward or disappointing. Where he might better leave the instrument of a curse or haunting unseen, James instead resorts to goblin-like runts who crawl out of holes, do their wickedness, and then retreat. I have always preferred ghost stories which relied on what has been called the 'numinous', a quality by which the haunting presence, though unable to affect our physical world directly, may yet arouse such dread in the living that harm indeed results, but only through panic and ensuing accident. Still, not all of James's stories fall short so, and some of his best are concentrated in the third quarter of this collection. I am confident I shall re-read many with great pleasure, and there is always a certain inimitable virtue to fiction written in or near the period it depicts.
449437158	A timeless collection of England’s greatest ever ghost story writer - MR James.Often read at Christmas but great to read at anytime of the year, this collection of short often very unsettling ghost stories are easy to read and digest quickly but leave an indelible impression in your mind and imagination.There are too many to mention here but my three personal favourites are The Ash Tree, The Tractate Middoth and one of MR James most famous ghost stories, Oh Whistle and I’ll come to you my Lad.Classic, old but still as riveting and addictive as they must have been when first published, these are scary stories of classic ‘bump in the night’ phantoms and unsettling happenings which really stay with you long after finishing. Definitely a book to be read late at night with a candle lit and the windows, doors and curtains firmly closed.......
2961983268	My rating reflects solely the enjoyment I got from reading this book, not the diction, construction of the stories or the imagination behind them. Something about James' style I found difficult, both in my ability to follow the course of action as well as to easily discern characters from each other. There were many words and phrases that threw or befuddled me, many unfamiliar religious or Latin references. Also, violence has become so commonplace for so long in our world, and the human imagination has expressed itself so variously and extensively over the time since these stories were written, much of what must undoubtedly have been shocking in 1895 is today simply mundane.
2171073581	A nice collection of some very well written ghost stories (does exactly what it says on the tin). It took quite a while to read because if you just read through as you would any other book all the stories blur into one, to enjoy them you need to read one at a time and put some space in-between them. A bit like poetry I suppose. As I said, very well written, an expert of his craft you might say, Oh I should also say that it is all very old fashioned but I quite like that, it lends itself well to the genre. I couldn't give 5 stars because after a while some of them do get a bit samey but don't let that put you off. Might have been better if I had taken even longer out between each story.
207501684	2.5Very middle of the road for me.
1087218365	Simply the best, goulish and ghastly tales by the master. JS
7603170107	3☆ — m. r. james is apparently a celebrated name in british classic horror literature; i was not aware of this prior to reading this short story collection, but i think i can be forgiven since i am not british myself. nevertheless, he is known as the father of the modern ghost story, having influenced writers such as h. p. lovecraft and stephen king.the writing could be lovely, as one would expect of classics. james has an occasional moment of tweaking the overly serious tone of the story to support his relatively more lighthearted jibes and observations. he certainly has skill in creating an intense atmosphere, but i found that many of them were simply not unsettling enough for my tastes. in this vein, i did not feel touched enough by a lot of stories in this collection which i think is probably also due to the order by which the short stories were arranged. the stories in the first half in particular had some similar elements to the point where it got quite predictable and made for breezing through. even otherwise, his stories in general have common elements that ensure that you are not really taken by surprise with the events that occur in the given story. most of the works of horror that i have read are mostly post-1930s, so perhaps that may also have contributed towards this perceived monotony.that being said, i did like the premise of many of his stories - they still had a uniqueness to them despite how long ago they were written. most of them do deal with ghosts, of course, and the protagonists of the stories are usually scholars of antiquarian pursuits. churches play roles in many of the stories as well, and i can confidently say after reading this that i know a lot more about church architecture than i knew before. three out of five stars for this one!
3627378099	Set from around the 1880s to 1early 20th century, these ghost stories are more subtle in the horror and more polished in the scene set, and the detective work involved in solving the mystery.Many of them were written to be told as Christmas Eve enterntainments read to gatherings of friends.The horror usually comes at the end and precisely because of the scene set is what makes the stories memorable in their own way.Set usually in a country or seaside town, or an abbey or old university or library, often in England, but sometimes in Scandinavia or France, the stories usually involve a rather dull, rather naive scholar-gentleman who picks up some item ( a book or painting etc) such as in Canon's Scrap Book, The Mezzotint and Number 13, which awakens angry and malevolent spirits.Or else the narrator-protagonist tells of a story he has heard from a secondary source in a place where he is staying weather on work or vacation such as Lost Hearts or Martin's Close.Sometimes the horror of the discovery of the supernatural being is enough to chill the reader, sometimes the spirits involved, as in the Ash-Tree or Lost Hearts result in the death of the victim of their revenge.An interesting read which requires some concentration not to lose the plot, good reading for the lover of older supernatural fiction.Always told in a scholarly and carefully descriptive way.
7710028831	This wasn't a bad collection and I can definitely understand why these stories are classics, but it suffers from reading them in order. There are a lot of similar ones and the collection is pretty long, so they start to all blend together. Some of them are boring and more than a handful didn't seem to make much sense. Here are some of my favorites:The Mezzotint - picture that changes to show a skeleton monster kidnapping a kid. Very freaky and absorbing.Number 13 - hotel with haunted room 13. The detail about the room disappearing and reappearing and eating the extra space without the two neighbors noticing at first is very good.'Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad' - whistle summons a ghost under a sheet. I know the concept of a ghost hiding in a sheet is overdone but in this instance it really was creepy. It's the horror of the imagination, of what it might look like underneath if you saw it.The Stalls of Barchester Cathedral - archdeacon is haunted after he murders his predecessor. The twist got me!!!The Haunted Dolls' House - dolls' house that plays out a family killing their grandfather. Very unsettling.A View from a Hill - haunted glasses. I wish this one had gone a little further with seeing something living through the glasses but still the concept was good.
990662389	M.R. James is one of those kinda guys you can just picture at a bar, telling the wildest story imaginable, complete with "It was thiiis big" alongside arm gestures and hyperboles in excess. Although what's funny, is how un-hyperbole-ish his stories actually are. In fact they're understated almost, quiet and full of nerdy guys wandering around ancient ruins and museums and churches strolling along as innocents, until things get crazy. Similar to Lovecraft, and certainly in what I would call the "Holy Quadrinity of Horror Literature," right next to Lovecraft, Poe, and King, his stories almost have a legendary quality about them. Highly atmospheric, they FEEL like urban myths or dusty old tales that have been hidden throughout the English countryside for eons, waiting for some studious professor to find them in a barn or an attic and write them onto paper. There's just that solidly eerie feel to it that makes him so good. Like you almost wonder if some of these actually did happen, and were relayed to the narrator. And the nerdy Oxford gent feel solidifies that. The way the stories are told are intense, creeping, and full of passion. When the story begins, you begin with the quaint professor. When it ends you fall into madness with him. And its the focus on the heebie jeebies and not the monsters themselves that make the stories so good. Its almost like James uses mirrors, smoke and shadows and fleeting objects in the corner of your eye to accomplish that feel. That true heebie jeebie feel. Its what makes him a true master. Ever wonder why ghosts are sheets? Or why howls in forests at midnight have become staples of horror films and fiction? Just a few examples of how timeless and iconic his works are. Fully deserving of five freakywhackedoutinsane stars.
2352364365	Not so long ago, I finished Night Terrors by E.F. Benson so M.R. James's Collected Ghost Stories makes for an interesting comparison and one, if I'm honest and take off my cap labelled 'literary snob', for my part comes down in favour of E.F. Benson. Now, I know James's stories are seminal, the fountainhead of 20th-century literature's take on the supernatural, and they are, it's true, very good. But I must admit a preference for Benson, despite the well-worn framework into which Benson fits most of his stories. There's a smell of autumn, of the fading of things and places, to Benson's work that is less present in James's stories, where it is still summer, although even there, the glories of May and June are past and the prospect is only of decline. But the decline has not yet begun, whereas in Benson's tales, the leaves have turned and some trees are already bare. Best of all, read both books, one after the other, and compare their differing moods.
2301653188	I was looking forward to a good, old school scare with this one, but was very disappointed. There was nothing chilling, creepy or scary about any of the stories I forced myself through. The introductory notes state that they were written for speaking aloud to public school boys at the college the author worked; they certainly read that way. There is a certain priggish overtone to the stories that has not aged well. A good example is the cockney-esque 'awrite guvnar av a cup a tea' idiolect given to anyone with a service job. I'd never heard of MR James before reading this book and now I know why.
2278257825	My tenth or eleventh read of this book. No longer physically terrifies me (I can remember lying in bed with the light on, paralysed with fear, too terrified to read on but unable to stop reading) but still remorseless and brilliant. 'An Evening's Entertainment' stands out this time around - it's overlooked compared to some of the stories, with a obvious sexual undertone that is unusual for James.
2063234755	"There is really nothing more to tell, but, as you may imagine, the Professor’s views on certain points are less clear cut than they used to be. His nerves, too, have suffered: he cannot even now see a surplice hanging on a door quite unmoved, and the spectacle of a scarecrow in a field late on a winter afternoon has cost him more than one sleepless night."
5886118936	Reading M.R. James was like listening to your favorite uncle gleefully telling spooky stories after dinner on a Thanksgiving night.That said, I think I preferred his earlier stories as they tended to be faster-paced and more overtly ghoulish.3.5/5
7901656675	Overall thoughts on the overall book:Pretty good book! It was a great company while I was in London AND so many (almost all) of the stories are set in England, and I got a small BIG excitement every time I recognised a place that it was mentioned. I did micro reviews for each story (because I’m me.... of course I would).I’ll admit that towards the end I got a little tired of this book (guilty). Not because the stories are bad or boring, but because I realized I kinda enjoy following a longer plot more than starting and stopping short ones 32 times (not accurate number). Still, this was the book that got me back into reading , so thank you. I walked, and now I must run! And reading it while in London made it all the better. It was very cool.Individuals reviews:Canon Alberic’s Scrapbook: had to double-check it wasn’t real, because if it was, I’d want to see the image.Lost Hearts: almost cute. I liked the ghosts here.The Mezzotint: not super spooky, but a cool and very visual story.The Ash Tree: gave me Harry Potter vibes (spideys).Number 13: I knew something was being cooked when the room kept feeling smallerCount Magnus: I get the curiosity, but come on, the signs were there.Oh, Whistle, and I’ll Come to You, My Lad: you still can’t convince me the colonel had no second intentions, sus.The Treasure of Abbot Thomas: loved this one! like watching someone solve a puzzle (literally). Plus, no tragic ending! Recommend.A School Story: unanswered questions, which makes it scarier.The Rose Garden: not really spooky, but flowers were mentioned.The Tractate Middoth: proof that inheritances are NEVER peaceful.Casting the Runes: one of the longer ones. Took me more than two metro rides! Still good.The Stalls of Barchester Cathedral: ’m stealing some words.Martin’s Close: why kill a lady, boy?Mr. Humphreys and His Inheritance: young guy + sinister maze = movie potential.The Residence at Whitminster: at first I read “Westminster” and got excited, since I’d just been there.The Diary of Mr. Poynter: London again! Convinced me to think twice about how I will decorate my future home.An Episode of Cathedral History: this books often uses physical monsters instead of ghosts, the book title is wrong.The Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance: tragic for the kids watching the show.Two Doctors: someone really took “five more minutes” too seriously.The Haunted Dolls’ House: fine, but I preferred The Mezzotint.The Uncommon Prayer-Book: book thief!A Neighbour’s Landmark: more London.A View from a Hill: cool story, but that smell would’ve been noticed earlier in a real life scenario.A Warning to the Curious: great idea, bad idea.An Evening’s Entertainment: finally, someone wise (of course it’s a grandma).There Was a Man Dwelt by a Churchyard: shorty.Rats: even ghosts just want five more minutes in bed.After Dark in the Playing Fields: birdy.Wailing Well: “Don’t go there, it’s haunted.” -> “Cool, I’ll go right now.”
4501620560	The complete stories from the master of the genre.M.R. James wrote these stories to be read aloud at Christmas as a way to amuse his friends at Cambridge. As such, they feature the kind of references and in jokes that a highly academic audience in the 1900s might enjoy. Don't let this put you off. You don't need to understand every single word and can look up the occasional bit of Latin if necessary for meaning. The stories themselves are well worth the trouble.What's so great about them? They combine beautiful descriptions of life in the 1900s - tea on the lawn, cycling excursions to old churches, golfing holidays by the sea - with truly creepy supernatural events that will stay with you way after you have finished reading. Far more subtle than the likes of James Herbert or Stephen King, James' sinister tales explore the way the shadow of the past can reach into the present and grab you by the throat. Usually when you are least expecting it.He offsets the chilling events with a lively narrative voice, avuncular and cheerful, often quite amusing so that you are always conscious that these are entertainments and not to be taken too seriously.I have read most of the stories many times but still enjoy revisiting them as I did over Christmas. If you only have time to read a couple from the collection, I would suggest:Oh, Whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad.RatsThe MezzotintLost HeartsCount Magnus
310261686	Born in 1862, M. R. James was a Victorian with a love of ghost stories. Many of the tales in this collection were meant to be read aloud a Christmas or New Year gatherings; it shows in their conversational tone. There are 33 stories in over 400 pages- with 48 pages of notes. I’ve never before seen endnotes in fiction, but I found them helpful. The author makes many references to places and events in England that an American would likely not understand, and the many colloquialisms of the time sometimes baffled me until I looked in the back of the book. I read right through this book, which turned out to not be the right way of approaching it. Read one after the other, they tended to run together and lose their effect. These stories would be best read one or two in an evening, perhaps read out loud- preferably by firelight. But it was a library book, so I persevered. ‘Ghost stories’ is not really the right name for a lot of these stories. Many of them feature not ghosts but demons, things that go bump in the night, haunted or bespelled pictures, rooms, binoculars, hills and other inanimate objects. James seemed to have a peculiar horror of animate fabric, as it features in several tales, in the form of evil curtains, pillowcases, blankets, etc., which sounds silly but when it comes down to it, would you want to confront drapes that form into a human shape and try to smother you? For the main part (although there are a couple of exceptions) the horror in these stories in not of the modern variety where the gore is splattered across the pages. James creates a sense of disturbing unease, a feeling that puts the hair on the back of your neck up, the sense that something is really NOT all right, and that if one is smart, one will get the heck out of that house/cemetery/library before the thing you don’t really see becomes visible. Highly enjoyable, but take your time reading it.
127117876	I often take Montague on holiday with me. He doesn't take up much room and he doesn't eat all the Baby Bells. I'm talking about Montague Rhodes James - my favourite writer of ghost stories. This time Montague is telling me the stories that didn't get printed in his four haunting anthologies. I prefer the individual publications to the doorstop collection here. It's pretty evident why these six stories didn't make it into the original publications. 1. The Uncommon Prayer-Book 2. A Neighbour's Landmark 3. Rats 4. The Experiment 5. The Malice of Inanimate Objects 6. A VignetteThey are a little rough around the edges, lacking the gloss of a story that an author has done tinkering with. There are still chilling moments to be had but there are no classics present unfortunately. Also included are several excerpts from prefaces by James that were published in his collections and other ghost story anthologies. They are very honest descriptions and opinions on the writing process and the qualities James valued in the creation of stories of this genre. He also talks about that drawer that all writers possess that houses the unfinished writings, or unused ideas. It's all invaluable stuff for writers interested in developing a style that might be influenced by James and others of his degree of adeptness.
2579321091	There’s a mix in M R James’s Collected Ghost Stories (which I have been reading over the last few weeks) of those that have aged well, and those that have less withstood the test of time. Most are between 10 and 20 pages, but a few are very brief, less than 4 pages, and not long enough to learn very much about their characters, or to develop any theme. Modern authors greatly influenced by James seem to prefer a novella length, and his stories here would have benefited from expansion. My pick is A School Story - two men discuss the folklore of the private schools they attended, “Oh Whistle And I’ll Come To You, My Lad” - a young college science professor finds an old bronze whistle while exploring some ruins, and A View From A Hill - on a walk through the countryside a historian looks at a plain field through binoculars and spots an abbey which is invisible otherwise. Most are available free online, audio versions also, and the BBC did an excellent production of several of them (the latter two above), in their series Ghost Stories for Christmas from the 1970s (available on YouTube).
677927892	I can definitely see that M.R. James is considered the father of the modern ghost story! Pretty unique, relatively modern and slightly gothic short stories. Dark academia before its time, perhaps? For some reason several of them are set in Scandinavia, so those felt close to home for me. A bunch of these I found pretty scary! The Mezzotint, The Ash Tree and Number 13, for example. A lot of the time the horror is kinda vaguely described, which can be even scarier for some. Some stories I found a bit boring, but overall a pretty decent collection. If you like Lovecraft you'll probably like this, as M.R. James influenced him.
3425223558	A master of horror ? No, but certainly a master at writing crap. Read about 150 pages of this tripe. All the stories I managed to read came to nothing. No suspense, no tension, no engaging characters, nothing of interest, no chills and no scares. A bitter disappointment one to avoid even if one is an avid horror reader. There is no horror to be had here. There were far better horror writers about at a similar time that are more worthy of checking out. There is zero entertainment to be had from reading this book. Dreadfully dull author and collection of stories.
1919759041	I already reviewed "Ghosts Stories of an Antiquary", and this is pretty much the same, but more, as it includes those stories, and all the rest he published throughout his life. GSOAA is probably rounder as a book because it contains the best stories, in my opinion, but I love all of them. Very very very good.
1723370876	Where have you been before in my life M. R. James? He plays really really really well on the imagination.His language is fluent and easy going.His stories are rad. If only they made it into a series, a really good one. Just imagine watching Number 13, or The Haunted Doll's House. I love it, and I will be coming back to this book. <3
5845886562	I don’t know if it was because I was reading it late at night, or because I just wasn’t paying attention until halfway through the sentence I was on, but somehow there was a part in “Canon Alberic’s Scrap-Book” that jump-scared me, and that almost never happens to me in books. My favorite story, however, was “Casting the Runes”. Loved the nice change-up from the typical ghost story ending.
573623694	What can you say? M.R. James reinvigorated, consolidated and almost simultaneously exhausted the possibilities of the English ghost story. He is its undisputed master. The tales are donnish, subtle, rich in foreshadowing and suggestion. The language is refined and precise. Start here.
2881557427	I dnf’ed it after 100 pages of trying. It put me in a such a huge reading slump. Very boring and not scary at all even though it’s about ghosts.
2669147322	With the exception of "Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to you," I'm afraid I found these stories all a bit... meh
986904627	Classic tales by the master of the short horror story.
3254323081	Ugh. M.R. James is the very definition of overrated.
4503865558	Could not believe my luck to find this collection read by Michael Hordern (and one by David Collings). Unfortunately I found most of these stories under-developed, combining several of these threads might make for stronger more compelling plots. Definitely evokes some great eerie atmosphere at times. Important stepping stone in the genre nonetheless. Count Magnus: 3.5/5What relentless evil has our hapless travel writer unknowingly awakened in the crypt? The Mezzotint: 2/5An engraven image changes over time depicting a revenge. I think this would have been a good component of a larger story. Casting the Runes: 2.5/5Cursed runes will kill their holder within three months. Whistle and I'll come to you my Lad: 3/5Ghastly ghost scenes but another rather lacklustre conclusion. The Haunted Dolls House: 2/5A man buys a haunted dolls house, from a man who knew the dolls house was haunted, and in turn tries to sell it to an unsuspecting American. A Neighbours Landmark: 2/5Altering land boundaries leads to the woman's ghost haunting a wood. The Rose Garden 3/5Ghost haunts the location where lady wants to plant new rose garden. Her brother dreams the trial which led to the ghosts execution. Wearied, they decide a seaside holiday is in order. A School Story: 2.5/5Eerie sightings and mysterious unbidden writing describe the location where a dead Latin teacher is found, years later. Rats: 3.5/5Something inhabits the one room that remains locked in a seaside inn. Diary of Mr Poynter: 1/5Book contains scrap of cloth resembling the hair of a bad man. When the cloth's pattern is copied and made into curtains, they grow and start trying to kill the house Inhabitants. Straight face telling. The House at World's End: 4/5This story is written by Stephen Sheridan, a pastiche of MR James's work. Much more lively characters and dialogue while somewhat mimicking the style. Well built plot elements and a satisfying conclusion. Refreshing. The Uncommon Prayer Book: 3/5Cursed prayer book opens at random to strange evil paragraphs, when the book is stolen, the police don't need to be called because the thief shortly after dies, and the former owner is happy to be rid of the cursed book. Ash Tree: 3/5How could the tree scratch the window when it is too far away to reach? There Was a Man Dwelt by a Churchyard: 3/5Even in death part the Scrooge like woman with her wealth at your peril. Number 13: 3/5Room thirteen doesn't exist, but is haunting the man in room twelve. A warning to the Curious: 2/5Anglo Saxon crowns protect Great Britain from invasion, but the men who fight to protect her shores are lost in the Great War. The Stalls of Barchester Cathedral: 3/5The narrator begins investigating the diary and subsequently the events that led to the death of the former archdeacon. After becoming convinced that the case is murder, but being troubled by unusual occurrences, brings a friend to stop his imagined apparitions. As his friend also experiences the strange occurrences, there appears to be some curse also present. Stories I have Tried to Write: 3/5A couple of undeveloped fragments of ideas which are classic tropes in the genre today. Canon Alberic's Scrap Book: 3/5As with The Haunted Dolls House it appears you must sell the cursed item, in this case the book, in order to free yourself. Even if part of that new found freedom includes your death.An Evening's Entertainment: 2/5Where a man murdered another man and then committed suicide the children shouldn't eat blackberries.
6408671895	M.R. James is often regarded as one of the finest writers of the ghost story in the English language, and having read his collected stories, I can see why. James wrote a variety of ghost stories, frequently featuring an ancient curse, medieval manuscript, or something else scholarly that causes havoc for the British gentlemen that are his protagonists. James himself was an accomplished scholar, and his knowledge adds a level of verisimilitude to his stories. Although they are formulaic to a degree, James infuses enough originality into each one to make them individually enjoyable, even when read in a sequence as I did.I think the first two dozen-ish stories, collecting Ghost Stories of an Antiquary and More Ghost Stories of an Antiquary are James at his strongest and most eerie, where the ghosts are both haunting while having a tasteful blend of clarity and ambiguity. Many of the later stories I found where much more obtuse with the supernatural element, which almost felt like an afterthought at times. Highlights are "The Ash-Tree," "Count Magnus," "A School Story," A Warning to the Curious," and "The Mezzotint," which is one of the best short stories of any genre I have ever read. Overall, an impressive collection by a master of the ghost story.
3647547258	Je ne dois pas être la seule à avoir découvert Montague Rhode James via (l'excellente) adaptation cinématographique de sa nouvelle "Casting the Runes" par Jacques Tourneur (sous le titre Night of the Demon -- 1957) ; nouvelle qui figure au sommaire du présent opus.Cette petite curiosité ouvrit à la découverte d'une voix trop méconnue du fantastique, assez éclatante pour se poser aussitôt en classique, et dont je n'hésite jamais à dire à quel point je la préfère à Lovecraft ;-)[Author's insiders :: Le nom d'emprunt d'un de mes personnages in [book:Gridlock Coda .one : Romaji Horizon|43286615] est un hommage direct, & ici avoué/assumé, à l'achimiste de "Casting the Runes" : Mr. Karswell]
8016582509	** spoiler alert ** So I’m giving this book 2 stars because essentially the first five or so stories were decent and somewhat scary towards the end of each story. However, the remaining stories were not particularly readable and grossing or different in any way. They all followed exactly the same plot where it’s quite ordinary dialogue and then essentially in the very last two pages something scary happens which is usually a figure where you can’t see the face but there’s lots of hair.. I wouldn’t really recommend it, and I don’t think I’ll be reading any more of the authors books . It felt very hard to get through 30 of the same story..
6930551237	This was a bit of a mixed bag—I even decided to rate each story individually in case anyone asks which stories to prioritize in what amounts to an 18 hour audiobook—but won’t subject you to that here. Overall I was fascinated by the window into British folk horror and period details. Very influential in the genre I think—Im surprised I hadn’t heard of it until recently—and seems safe to call it a precursor to dark academia as well. Even if formulaic (eg someone messes with a medieval artifact or manuscript, proceeds to be haunted by eldritch demon), there were some compelling premises and interesting characters. The writing leans Dickensian, if you like that sort of thing—on the wordy side but atmospheric, often incisive and funny (especially supporting characters, typically working class). Only rarely truly creeped out.Narration by Jonathan Keeble is excellent.
8151813028	Love the change in theme and setting, even though all the stories take part in similar places they feel very different and unique to each other. The protagonists of each tale are also fleshed out great, and even in the short time you spend with them you sympathise with their struggles with the supernatural.
6917004216	Although M.R. James felt Sheridan Le Fanu of the first rank among the authors of ghost story authors, I would accord that honor to James himself - who wrote some of the finest ghost stories of the 19th century. James' protagonists were often solitary, academic men, usually with antiquarian interests or pursuits - who run afoul of the supernatural - often to their detriment. My Favorites? "Count Magnus", "Lost Hearts", "Wailing Well", and "The Residence at Whitminister". If you have a taste for ghost stories in October...and who doesn't....read this book.Jeff McIntosh
2029661640	In spectral fiction there is only one James. Those who think acceptable discussion of supernatural literature begins and ends with "The Turn of the Screw" do a disservice to their credibility and sense of scope they wish to convey to curious readers. The wit, versatility, and jouissance M. R. James invests in his fiction over-tops individual stories.
3186137039	This? This is the sh*t. This will f*ck you right in. Jamesy was a gangster.
5587999514	Vài truyện thì hợp, vài truyện thì vật vã mãi mới xong.
3012582662	Classic creepy ghost stories that are written as if the narrator is telling you a story over a drink.
7619395820	I adore these ghost stories, no notes. Great atmosphere and an essential in Winter.
2264362475	Against my better judgement, I was taken to a second hand bookstore by friends who should know better. This was the result. I take no responsibilities for my actions, or the resulting lack of sleep. I regret nothing.
4316362291	3.5
8126422339	What does one say? He was a master of this particular craft.
8041314481	Very entertaining if you’re looking for old-fashioned ghost stories. Perfect for a train ride or a weekend read during autumn!
8145378922	L'album del canonico Alberico ***Racconto ricco di suggestione in cui colpisce positivamente lo spaccato sulla vecchia ricerca filologica, con esplorazioni di villaggi sperduti e chiesette isolati alla ricerca di possibili testi di valore. Gli esiti, vagamente horror, un po' involuti, non valgono però le premesse.Cuori perduti ***!Racconto dal gusto profondamente gotico, ricco di suggestione e scritto ottimamente. Anche in questo caso, il finale appare un po' troppo brusco, al di là di un'improbabile - a livello di logica - lettera rivelatrice. Il resto sfiora la perfezione.L'acquaforte ***!Racconto fondato su un'idea eccellente (un dipinto che, poco a poco, subisce delle variazioni senza che nessuno lo tocchi), perfettamente sorretta dall'atmosferica penna di James. Anche in questo caso, il racconto si chiude con un finale non all'altezza. Un maggior approfondimento di alcuni aspetti (la villa da rintracciare) e un finale migliore avrebbero trasformato il comunque notevole racconto in un capolavoro assoluto.Il frassino ****Racconto ambientato ai tempi della caccia alle streghe, che se rispetto ai precedenti perde qualcosa a livello dì atmosfera (la villa in cui si svolgono i fatti è modernizzata e italianizzata), trova finalmente una conclusione di ottimo livello, sinistra a fantasiosa, oltre a una trama robusta ed intrigante. Scrittura come sempre eccellente, senza una sola riga sprecata.La stanza numero 13 ****Un piccolo capolavoro di mistero e suggestione, dalla notevole ambientazione in un hotel di Copenhagen. Una notevole tensione costruita su strani dettagli difformi, rumori bizzarri e ombre riflesse. Ancora una volta il finale convince meno del resto, ma possiede, in questo caso, una riuscita carica bizzarra.Il conte Magnus ****Altro racconto, altro semi-capolavoro, con la solita cornice archeologico-filologica mai pesante o gratuitamente dotta, ma vero e proprio valore aggiunto a livelli di atmosfere. Eccellente ambientazione svedese tra un bosco e una chiesetta, riuscito senso di attesa, finale sempre piuttosto brusco, ma più compiuto della media dell'autore.Fischia, e verrò da te **!Ambientazione sulle coste inglesi e trama che tocca il tema dei templari per il racconto al di sotto della media della raccolta, troppo ampio nella sua fase preparativa e troppo conciso negli esiti, ma pur sempre carico di mistero, con un riuscito scontro finale notturno che sconfina dell'horror puro senza disperdere la carica ambigua.Il tesoro dell'abate Thomas **Lo spirito archeologico di James in questo suo racconto si fa strabordante, tra cacce al tesoro, messaggi crittografati e iscrizioni in latino, al punto che, pur coi suoi misteri e la sua elegante scrittura, la storia avanza faticosamente, fino a un risvolto finale al limite dell'horror che sembra essere l'elemento a cui l'autore era meno interessato.Una storia dei tempi di scuola ***Dopo l'ambizioso ma pachidermico racconto precedente, James cambia completamente rotta, con uno scorrevolissimo racconti di vecchie leggende metropolitane in ambito universitario (ovviamente, visti gli interessi dell'autore, al centro della vicenda avremo un insegnante di latino e i suoi alunni). Storia semplice ma intrigante, con un finale per una volta all'altezza delle aspettative, con una strana e riuscita rivelazione conclusiva.Il roseto ***!Racconto dall'atmosfera magica, quasi favolistica, magari non robustissimo a livello di intreccio, ma di grande forza poetica. Vagamente incompiuto, ma con bel qualche dettaglio sinistro piazzato proprio in dirittura d'arrivo. Un tale contesto di boschi al crepuscolo e strani sogni, appare saggia la scelta di mettere la parte l'archeologia.Il trattato Middoth ***!Riuscitissimo racconto pieno di misteri, la cui ambientazione bibliotecaria, con libri dai contenuti enigmatici e strani avvenimenti, sembra anticipare alcune cose molto successiva di Cornell Woolrich. Il finale appare piuttosto scontato, ma meno tronco del solito, e con una riuscita carica sinistra.L'incantesimo delle Rune ***Nonostante l'elemento paranormale (un alchimista dai poteri malefici prende di mira un uomo che gli ha rifiutato una conferenza) il racconto si svolge, lineare, con un'approccio alla suspense quasi proto-hitchcockiana. Il finale per una volta convince.Gli stalli della cattedrale di Barchester *****Capolavoro e tra i racconti più compiuti della raccolta, ritratto - ricostruito attraverso lettere e articoli di giornale - di una vita di cent'anni prima e destinata a chiudersi nel peggiore dei modi, narrata con un impeccabile crescendo che, dalla mera cronaca giunge agli angoli più profondi di una psiche tormentata. Storia di suggestione e depressione sostenuta da un eccellente descrizione di ambienti e atmosfere, dove paranormale, thriller e dramma diventano un tutt'uno sotto il segno dell'ambiguità. Finale per una volta eccellente, che svela e non svela.Il terreno di Martin **!Esperimento rischiosissimo quello di James, che propone un racconto in gran parte narrato in flashback basato su un caso giudiziario di due secoli prima. La scommessa è vinta, con il lettore che segue con curiosità la strana vicenda, ma il problema è nel deludente finale, che nulla aggiunge rispetto alle premesse.Il signor Humphreys e la sua eredità ***!Racconto che sembra il prologo non sviluppato di una novella capolavoro, che la chiusa improvvisa per quanto non tronca risolve sbrigativamente. Tutto ciò che viene prima del finale è però perfetto: le notti in biblioteca alla ricerca di possibili cimeli, le escursioni nel labirinto, il flashback con l'inseguimento notturno.La residenza di Whitminster **!Storia interessante, dal gusto profondamente gotico, che affascina specialmente nel segmento dei due adolescenti e le loro attività misteriose, ma appasantita da una narrazione faticosa, con salti temporali e flashback che rendono la lettura non particolarmente scorrevole. Tra i racconti minori della raccolta.Il diario del signor Pointer **!Un'idea semplice ma efficace (un disegno dagli effetti malefici basato su una serie di linee) inutilmente appesantita da inutili preamboli. Uno dei casi in cui le passioni museologiche dell'autore inficiano la tenuta della narrazione.Un episodio della storia di una cattedrale ***L'ampia cornice filologica, con dovizia di citazioni e accuratezze a livello architettonico, a differenza che in altri racconti non alimenta l'atmosfera, ma appesantisce il racconto. Racconto che, se depurato di tutto gli orpelli, sarebbe stato una perla, con una bellissima idea centrale (un urlo terrificante che, tutte le notti, proviene da una cattedrale terrorizzando chi vive nei paraggi) e un finale per una volta rivelatore, di notevole livello.Storia di una scomparsa e di una apparizione ***James si scolla di dosso le pesantezze museali dei due racconti precedenti per un bel racconto epistolare dalle premesse quasi da giallo (un uomo scomparso in una zona di campagna a pochi giorni dal Natale). Conclusione bizzarra e straniante, che lascia al contempo perplessi e affascinati.Due dottori ***Altra storia di lettere ritrovate con trasportano direttamente a due secoli prima, un Settecento rurale con una serie di eventi misteriosi che vedono protagonisti due medici di paese apparentemente tra loro molto diversi. Una storia semplice ma intrigante, con una strana conclusione ambigua.La casa stregata delle bambole ***!Strano, suggestivo racconto, ricchissimo di idee, pieno di cambi di rotta che potrebbero disorientare il lettore, con tanto di parte conclusiva quasi da mystery, in cui si cerca di far chiarezza sui vari enigmi sparsi. Apprezzabile, infine, l'umiltà dell'autore nel dichiarare, nella postilla, la non originalità dell'idea di base (ma ammettiamo che la fonte era molto ben camuffata).Lo strano libro di preghiere ***Racconto semplice ed efficace, sorretto da una bella idea di base (una serie di libri di preghiere che si aprono tutti alla stessa pagina) con la consueta, suggestiva ambientazione di campagna. Finale tutto sommato onesto, che non sorprende ma neppure delude.I confini del vicino ***Una bella e misteriosa storia di strane presenze di campagna, un po' sconclusionato, ma con una postilla che conferisce al tutto un sinistro senso di autenticità. Particolarmente riuscita l'ambientazione, con una descrizione di grande forza evocativa del paesaggio bucolico durante e dopo la pioggia.Una vista dalla collina ****Una bellissima ambientazione estiva nelle campagne inglesi fa da sfondo a un'eccellente storia di misteri, con qualche momento astratto ma a posteriori ferrea nella sua logica. Nell'ultima parte la soluzione diventa quasi scontata, ma ciò non inficia l'efficacia del suo disvelamento.Un monito ai curiosi ***Altro racconto a più livelli con un'ambientazione balneare nordica simile a quella di Fischia e verrò da te. Tolti i non necessari preamboli, la storia si dipana semplice e avvincente, con un finale macabro e ambiguo che non delude.Una serata divertente ***!Quello che si apre come un divertissement (un'anziana signora racconta una storia ai nipoti attorno al fuoco) si rivela essere un racconto di grande suggestione, praticamente senza paranormale, incentrato su un oscuro doppio delitto di provincia con due uomini dallo strano rapporto come vittime. Notevole, pur nella sua semplicità.C'era un uomo che abitava vicino al cimitero ***Un mini-racconto riuscito, con una storia piuttosto scontata ma suggestiva, con una bella ambientazione - in ossequio con il titolo - cimiteriale, dai toni autunnali e crepuscolari. Va detto, però, che la pur breve cornice non gioca a favore dell'atmosfera.Ratti ***Riuscita storia di presenze fantasmatiche in una stanza chiusa, in grado di creare un notevole senso di curiosità. Una chiusa più cupa avrebbe forse avvinto più di quella attuale sdrammatizzante, ma ad essa si arriva attraverso un bel momento di cui forse si ricorderà Dan Curtis per il suo "Ballata macabra": il personaggio principale che, prima della partenza, sale le scale ed entra nella stanza dove si cela il mistero dietro a tutta la storia, per scoprire finalmente la verità.Di notte nel parco dei divertimenti **Racconto minore della raccolta, poco più che un divertissement di un paio di pagine basato sul dialogo tra un uomo e un presunto gufo in un parco giochi di notte. Curioso, ma fine a sé stesso e praticamente privo di trama.Il pozzo del pianto ***!Notevole racconto ambientato nel mondo degli scout, incentrato su un allievo ben poco disciplinato che peccherà di eccessiva spavalderia. Forse il racconto più ritmato e moderno dell'autore, con una parte introduttiva che, pur non essenziale ai fini della narrazione, apppare snella e intrigante. Riuscito anche il crescendo finale, con una riuscita e macabra resa dei conti.
3518493230	I've read this collection at least three times now, only once in normal conditions, the other two in memorably odd situations. They really are effective ghost stories if read in a storm battered cottage on the edge of the moors. The problem with 19th century/ Victorian/Edwardian Ghost story is well known. They were written for candle light and creaking houses, for the nervous walk home after the story telling, through badly lit streets. The old joke is that the genre was killed by the electric light switch though the modern horror film and chunky 'horror' novel have contributed. They famously suggest and omit, playing with shadows and uncertainty to work their magic. But 'ghost stories' are not 'horror stories'. If you're waiting for the beastie to rip off the narrator's head, or for the Vile Carefully Described Thing to crawl out of the slime and take over the neighbourhood, then you are going to be disappointed. There are filmed versions of James' stories which miss this point and make nonsense of the stories. The 1958 Curse of the Demon/Night of the Demon does a fine job of filming 'Casting the Runes' until someone decided the monster had to make an appearance. Lacking the overblown feel of Lovecraft's, or the crude splatter effects and explicit 'horror' of more modern practitioners, James' stories can seem thin if not non-existent. Especially if you're coming to these stories after modern 'horror' films, you are going to wonder what the fuss is about. But the ghost story, taken on its own terms, is still worth reading. Although I don't think he's as good as Le Fanu at his best, but then I don't think anyone was, there are some superb stories in the collection. Superb if, and only if, you are willing to accept the story as the starting point. They are designed to provide material for your imagination to work on, or material to work on your imagination.
77946745	This book is an anthology of 30 stories by M.R. James, who is considered one of top ghost story writers ever. The omnibus covers majority of James's published stories; there are only several that have been omitted.The stories look short (about 15 pages per each), but horrid typesetting (that could as well stem from the very character of the stories themselves) makes them feel as if they were at least twice longer. The pages contain basically wall of text - the longest paragraph I've encountered spanned two whole pages. All the stories are told from main wrapping POV - that's the reason for these awful blocks of text. They contain everything from descriptions to whole dialogues quoted by the main narrator. Combine it with various weird dialects in such dialogues (i.e. country dialect, which gave me a lot of trouble - it's okay to decipher what old people are saying if it's a couple of sentences, but not about one quarter of the book) and you'll get something that is very hard to read and understand without getting lost in massive black column that covers entire page.Normally I don't pay much attention to such things, but in this case the way the text was organized killed half the joy for me.The stories themselves aren't very scary - they can give off uneasy feeling, but in my opinion they were a bit too repetitive. They took too long to fire off and they were ending right after the climax, not developing enough to truly scare anyone (me). It's probably best to read them in right setting - for example, an open living-room at night, when the curtains are not yet drawn and all the doors are open, and by the light of a candle. There's just not much of an atmosphere when one is locked in their brightly lit bedroom.That said, much of these stories' appeal is in the style of writing, not content-related spookiness.
2385034920	It might be too much to expect that ghost stories written a hundred years ago or more will retain the power to chill that they had on first publication; but it seems reasonable to hope that some of them will still be able to thrill, if not through complex narrative twists and turns (hard to pull off in stories of this length), then at least through atmosphere and a build-up of suspense. Unfortunately, M.R. James's ghost stories failed to do this for me, pretty much comprehensively. I found the formula just too repetitive, and James's prose style very arch and rather smug. Having the stories read out loud might help a bit, I suppose, and you might object that I've done James a disservice by reading all of them in a fairly short span of time (actually, it was getting on for two months, and I read ten or eleven other books during this period). But all of them were pretty dull, to be honest. This is only, I think, the third one-star review I've given in nearly two hundred done on this site. Perhaps a little harsh, but the rubric does say "did not like it" not "this is a bad book." The other two members of the One Star Club are E.M. Forster and D.H. Lawrence, so James is in surprisingly exalted company. Maybe there's something about writers usually known by their first two initials!
4199434538	I think my problems with these stories are that they are all very similar and also that it feels like nothing actually happens. It's all 'here's a story that someone told me about something that happened to someone else' so none of it feels very scary or immediate. The same tropes show up over and over, a learned gentleman is on a dignified holiday somewhere in England, he disturbs or experiences something ancient or evil through his educated interest in archaeology or architecture or local history and then is followed by a strange sound or bad feeling that may culminate in a vaguely described horror of human form covered in hair and he puts back whatever it was or flees the area (uneventfully takes the next train) to escape. The story is not told by the gentleman in question but by someone who was told it by him but sworn to secrecy til after they died so the story actually happened 50 years before it's telling. These were written to be told aloud in spooky candle lit evenings to the kind of men who would see themselves in the main characters - and they probably worked much better for that specific audience in that atmosphere - for most people though they're going to be unrelatable and underwhelming.
7118953805	zombie goasts leave this place!Reading these stories, I was a little baffled. This is what Lovecraft was raving about? Totally normal ghost stories? As things went on, I started to see a little. James does approach the weird, but his sense of subtlety keeps his stories just out of that realm. His grasp of ghost story cadence is perfect. Dry humour enhances rather than detracts. And yet, they're not massively scary. The images tend to be tame, and the stories are often related secondhand, with the understanding that all involved survived. This tendency to anti-climax is a little baffling, and horror fiction has trended more extreme over time, so the average desensitized modern reader is likely to find them underwhelming. M.R. James wrote his stories as a side gig (he was a full-time Oxford academic and administrator), and took an extreme "write what you know" view, so the scenarios and motifs involved can get very repetitive. The prototypical M.R. James story features* An academic/antiquarian/clergyman, either as a protagonist or supporting character* A setting in or around an old church/estate/library/school, often a real place that M.R. James visited* Set in a recent (late 19th/early 20th century) year, but with a story connection to early modern English history* Some kind of cursed book/statue/picture/grave* A malevolent ghost/spirit of ambiguous nature, often hairy and disgusting, typically unleashed by interacting with aforesaid object* Some occultist/magical flavouring, often attributed to Catholic priests* "Everyone survives" endingNow, that's not to say every story is exactly the same, they just blend together at the edges. Most have unique elements, and they vary in length. The later stories tend to mix up the presentation more than the earlier. I got about halfway through the collection before I had to temporarily tap out. A story or two a year, each Halloween, is probably a healthier way to read this."Canon Alberic's Scrap-Book" is the prototypical James story, with the exception of being set in France. It also has one of the better images in the collection in the form of a cursed picture, and one of the most disappointing endings in its ease of resolution. Pure "James"."The Mezzotint" shows his humorous side, which shades smoothly into the creep factor, as the protagonist watches his mezzotint print display the progress of a ghostly scene. Has a menacing air, and doesn't deflate itself by the end. "Number 13" is a hotel story. A traveller rents room 12 of a hotel that has no room 13, until the occupant of room 14 comes to complain about the guest between them. This one is filled with creepy indirect images, shadows on the wall, and I've always felt hotels are the most likely place for something fucked up and supernatural to happen. All those identical rooms, with people doing who knows what in them... This story also has the single best joke in the whole collection, when the protagonist has to rouse the Danish hotel employees:The men dropped the crowbars they had brought, and said flatly that they were not going to risk their throats in that devil's den. The landlord was miserably nervous and undecided, conscious that if the danger were not faced his hotel was ruined, and very loth to face it himself. Luckily Anderson hit upon a way of rallying the demoralized force."Is this," he said, "the Danish courage I have heard so much of? It isn't a German in there, and if it was, we are five to one."The two servants and Jensen were stung into action by this, and made a dash at the door."Count Magnus" is one of many stories featuring occult elements. A traveller digs into the legend of Count Magnus, an alchemist and magician reputed to have gone on a mysterious "Black Pilgrimage". The deeper he investigates, the more locks on Magnus' grave seem to have opened. One of the few stories that doesn't anti-climax."'Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad'", besides featuring a literal bedsheet ghost, mixes horror and humour in a mutually enhancing way. The protagonist is oblivious to what's happening to him, so ghostly scenes which he misinterprets or ignores are simultaneously comical and creepy, moreso than either effect would be on its own."A School Story" is related thirdhand, the haunting not even being directly witnessed, but we are given suggestive bits and pieces. Demonstrates the truism of less being more, and accordingly is also one of the shorter stories.In "Casting the Runes", an occultist of poor literary ability exacts revenge on reviewers of his books. His writing may be poor, but his spells and curses are real. The progression of the curse has a lot of good images, and the occultist's horrifying slide-projection display to a group of children is a great story-within-a-story.In "The Stalls of Barchester Cathedral", the narrator works through the papers of a dead Archdeacon, uncovering his decline in the face of a haunting. Something of an early "found footage" horror, I suppose? This story is more forcefully desperate in tone than many of the others, as the Archdeacon grapples with his situation and we learn the truth of its origin. "Martin's Close" takes the form of a trial transcript, in which a gentleman is accused of murdering a peasant girl, "one to whom Providence had not given the full use of her intellects, but was what is termed among us commonly an innocent or natural". Has some very dark subtext, even among the other stories which features hauntings motivated by murder."Mr Humphreys and His Inheritance" is apparently a bit controversial, with people either thinking it's boring as hell or one of James' best stories. I'm firmly in the latter camp. It centres around a locked garden maze on an old estate willed by a distant relative. It's one of the longer stories, and it meanders around with sideplots and elements, but it all builds up the atmosphere of mystery and menace. The climactic haunting is leagues above most of the others, with an almost Junji Itou-esque grotesqueness.
2232527405	I love a spooky short story collection for the scary season and M. R. James is one of my favourites. It’s been almost twenty since I first read his ghost stories but they have stayed with me to this very day. Classic tales of the terror that lingered in the back of my mind and inspired me to write my own short stories. These are some real old school ghost stories in this collection. Slow burns that take their time to settle in and sink beneath the skin. While there may not be many shocks or scares there is something much better in my opinion; atmosphere. There’s a real sense of doom gloom in James’s stories, a foreboding of what’s to come even if we never know what the hell has happened. That’s one thing I love about reading (and writing) supernatural short stories. They are only supposed to give a glimpse in the shadows, a hint of what’s lurking in the dark, but have absolutely no obligation to explain what’s going on. In a full length novel we often get an explanation to the main mystery that is never as interesting or satisfying as what we hope for. The true fear comes from not knowing, leaving us with unanswered questions and letting our minds fill in the blanks, which I feel makes them so much scarier and unsettling.
2102808884	I listened out for whispering in the stairs - a slip of paper danced before my fingers - the garden was filled, inch by stealthy inch, with shadow
3384676140	A solid collection with some good sharp reads and some proper duds. A solid three ⭐️M. R. James Collected Ghost Stories Review.Excellent collection of short stories, each sufficiently long enough to set the scene of the main characters which invariably consisted of one or two people at most. Atmospheric, easy to read and in a varied number of settings, makes this a must have for fans of classic ghost stories, for those cold wintery nights!- Canon Alberic’s scrapbooko A decent read about a scrap book with collected historic pages from different books of the occult.- Lost Heartso Haunting tale following a man’s pursuit for immortality - The Mezzotinto A haunted mezzotint- The Ash- Treeo About witches- Number 13o A classic tale about the number 13 and a haunted room in an inn- Count Magnuso Translyvannian tale about a count who protects his woods from beyond the grave- Oh Whistle and I’ll come to you, My lado A haunted whistle!
1294963383	I'm not going to say I disagree with M.R. James being an immensely important writer of ghost fiction and the godfather of almost all western ghost narratives. I know the history, I know his work is important, but---This was so boring! I'm not a fan of 19th century writing at all, and while there are some writers I can accept M.R. James is not one of them. Everything is so overwhelmingly bogged down with overt detail and distraction from plot and actual happenings. Endless long-winded observations that do NOT paint pictures and are instead idle paragraphs of nothing.I just can't grip 19th century sensibility. Really can't. It's boring, it's slow, and it's so weighed down with needless detail and ostentatious dialogue that when something finally does happen in the story you barely notice and certainly aren't surprised.Again, not saying that M.R. James isn't someone you shouldn't read or that he's over-rated. But he just wasn't for me.
