3500564576	HAPPY PRIDE MONTH!!!********************************oooh, goodreads choice awards finalist for best horror 2020! what will happen?********************************SPOOKTOBER NEVER DIES!!********************************when i first heard about this book; that it was a gothic-toned victorian private school story set in RHODE ISLAND with lesbians and mysterious deaths and stories-within-stories, i knew it was a must-read for me. and once i got my hands on it, i fell into it like it was everything i was told it was gonna be, but also more, becoming bigger and more meta, the story splintering in ways i hadn't anticipated. and while i was reading it, i absolutely loved it, but i'm not really sure what i took away from it, if that makes any sense. i loved the journey of it, but it feels unconcluded (which is a different thing than something being inconclusive), and i'm not certain it left me with anything other than the experience of completing a long, fun book. which is not a bad thing, but it makes it difficult to consider the book as a forest instead of a series of perfectly nice trees. this novel is long and layered. it's a book about the making of a film adapted from a book about a book, during which process the film itself becomes a film about the making of a film. set across three time periods, it's full of women in love: the doomed teen romance between clara and flo, the slightly less-doomed romance between alex and libbie, and the "it's complicated" modern romance between merritt and harper, with audrey on their periphery. there are also plenty of supporting characters and a footnote-mad omniscient narrator commenting on the events, inserting their own jabby asides along the way. (view spoiler)[confession: i'm not sure i ever understood who the narrator was—did i miss something? there was a coy reference to their identity in one of their footnotes, but was it ever definitively revealed? (hide spoiler)]there are wasps and jealousies and seances, there's obsession and truman capote and the price of fame, there's a perilous staircase leading to a middle finger of a tower, there are secrets and secrets and secrets. also: there's some artwork. so, you see, it is a lot. and it's entertaining as hell, even though it doesn't really resolve into anything beyond an enjoyable romp. which is enough, especially these days. it's a fast read to fall into, and only medium-spooky unless you have an insect thing, in which case you'll be terrified. a personal note about Mary MacLane, whose book I Await the Devil's Coming features prominently here. i remember seeing her book at st. marks bookstore when it was reissued as part of melville house's neversink series, but i ended up buying something else because i'm not super into nonfiction, which i now regret because it's out of print and st. marks is closed and everything ends and i guess i'm partially to blame. *update: it's still available through melville house, so support 'em if you can, and if reading this book made you curious about reading her book. but if you're "an impressionable female," bewaaaaaaare! come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3580678531	Oh holly hell!Claustrophobic haunted school theme dances with queer gothic! This is one of the best unique, heart pounding and addictive concept! But I honestly have to admit as soon as I saw the page numbers of the book, I want to drop the book and run. Don’t get me wrong: normally long paged books are great challenge for a person for me who read Stephen King’s Stand three times which weights more than a bundle of encyclopedias! Actually my main problem was about working too hard lately and my head is so close to get explode because of extra usage of grey cells. But literary gods answered my prayers because this book worths every grey cell I fry! There are some books look long but when you get into story you don’t count the page numbers, you just get lost in the chapters and you wish it never ends! Thankfully this book is one of them and I was so pleased to enjoy each stories and multiple characters. It takes place in two time lines which was challenging thing to combine the stories and varied characters’ sub stories with perfect balance but the author did a marvelous jobOne of the stories sets in Rhode Island’s Brookhant’s School for girls: centered around Flo and Clara who are obsessed with Mary MacLane’s memoir- the young girl who were electrified when she was only 19 and named her memoir as “I await the devil’s coming”, founders of the badass and dangerous girls’ club named Plain Bad Heroines Society. And at the present time, two young queer actresses making movie about the school and honorary members of club: Flo and Clara as an author joined them whose book written about the school has been adapted into script. Well, I have to admit I loved the haunted, gothic high school and bad girls’ club theme more than the filmmakers’ present time chapters. If this book has been taken place in 1902 and it could be only about the creepy boarding school, I never hesitate to read even though it was more than thousand pages. That story carries fantastic horrifying Halloween theme and I scared, I jumped and I screamed during those parts! It was scary, smart, entertaining, mind spinning queer gothic meets dark comedy book which I loved more than I expected! I wish there were more Brookhant’s parts so I could give five stars. But I’m still giving four impressive boarding school theme, unputdownable, great choice for Halloween week stars! Special thanks to NetGalley and Harper Collins Publishers/ William Morrow for sharing this reviewer digital copy with me in exchange my honest thoughts.
3444066480	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |2 ½ stars Readers, I am disappointed. Plain Bad Heroines was one of my most anticipated 2020 releases...maybe I should have not ‘hyped’ it so much. This is certainly an ambitious novel, one that is a few hundred pages too long. There were elements that I liked, but these were ultimately outweighed by my frustration toward the tone of the narrative, the dual storylines, and the characters. Plain Bad Heroines begins at Brookhants School in 1902 when two students, Clara and ‘Flo’, who happen to be lovers are swallowed by “a fog of wasps”. Another death soon rocks the school, and all of the girls shared a fascination for Mary MacLane’s work (The Story of Mary Maclane & I Await the Devil's Coming). The narrator playfully reminds us of their presence with plenty of direct addresses, footnotes, and asides. We do not know the identity of the narrator, but they posses an almost omniscient knowledge of the events they are recounting.In the present three young women—all in their twenties—work on a film adaptation on a book called ‘The Happenings at Brookhants’. The book was written by one of these girls, Merritt (a character whom I lowkey hated) who happens to know Elaine Brookhants. Then we have Harper Harper, an up and coming actress/influencer whose personality revolves around her celebrity status, who will play Flo, and Audrey Wells (I actually had to check out her name as I could not remember it on top of my head...that’s how memorable she was) the daughter of a ‘scream queen’ who so far has an acted in B movies and ads.The section set in the present doesn’t involve these three girls bonding or finding more about what happened at Brookhants. We are never told very much about Merritt’s book, so we don’t know how much they know about the whole affair. This timeline is also not all that concerned with filmmaking. What this storyline cares about is famous people: how they are followed by journalists or fans, how their lives revolve around instagram, how little privacy they have, and of their self-fashioning ways. The three girls do not really along. Their meeting, which happens quite a good chunk into this slow burner of a novel, reads like something that belongs in the realms ofGossip Girl or Scream Queens. And here I was hoping for an actual horror or at least something in realms of American Horror Story (the first seasons of course).Our not-as-half-as-amusing-as-they-think-they-are narrator never really delves into these characters. It mostly describes what they are saying or doing. It focuses more on their ‘role’ (Harper=celebrity, Audrey=daughter of an 80s horror actress, Merritt=not like other girls writer). Their personalities are...kind of not there. Merritt is the only one with a semblance of one, and it ain’t a good one. The narrative tries really hard to establish Merritt’s ‘prickly’ personality (in a few occasion Merritt says or asks something generic and we are told “Merrit said like Merritt would” or “Merrit asked like Merritt would”). She’s petty, cruel, and domineering. She’s given a Sad Backstory™, so Readers are meant to let her behaviour slide. Except that this Reader could and would not. She seems blissfully unaware of her own privilege (she’s in her early twenties and has published a book, her mother teaches at a university and she has access to the library there, they are adapting her book and want her to be part of the process). She’s also not ‘plain’ looking. Her hair is pink because she’s Not Like Other Girls™ (a random character tells her she has “great fucking hair”) and she is also called hot by Harper. Yet, throughout the course of the book, Merritt acts like a fifteen-year-old girl who is spending too much time on Tumblr. Her pettiness is unwarranted and uncalled for, her jealousy is also over the top (she's only just met Harper and she already jealous at the possibility of Audrey working alongside her...yet she knows that Harper is already in an open relationship). Harper is also not plain. She’s famous, beloved, and uber cool. She has short hair, tattoos, smokes, and rides a bike. And of course, she also has a Sad Backstory™. The story mentions some family-related drama, but this a thread that is never truly resolved. Her motivations, desires, fears...who knows? I sure don’t. Maybe she likes Merritt? Maybe not? While Audrey may not be plain looking, her personality is definitely plain. She doesn’t seem to possess any discernible traits.Anyway, these three ‘work’ together (there are actually very few scenes that take place while they are working on the film sadly) and weird things start happening (we have wasps, weird weather, and a general heebie jeebies atmosphere).The storyline set in the past had much more potential. Sadly, it doesn’t focus on Clara or Flo (their lives prior to their peculiar deaths of course) or Brookhants but rather it follows the headmistress of the school who lives in a house nicknamed ‘Spite Manor’. She lives with her lover, who also teaches at Brookhants. This timeline was definitely more Gothic, and there were scenes that struck me as quite atmospheric and well-executed. Sadly however the relationship between the two women was a let down, as it never struck me as the complex love story I was hoping for. Creepy things begin to happen, and they begin to grow apart. The deaths of three of their pupils forces them to question whether the ‘supernatural’ is to be blamed. I was hoping for a Gothic love story, with some horror undertones. What we actually get is a work that is extremely meta. Some may find the narrator to be amusing, I mostly didn’t. The mystery is the most disappointing aspect of the whole book. It was very anticlimactic, as we simply get a chapter in which our narrator explains things to us. Flo, Clara, and the other girl are unimportant, they function as the Dead Girl trope. We don't learn anything more about them after the 20% mark or so nor do we learn more about the book Merritt has written about them.The storyline set in the present never reaches its apotheosis. Nothing major happens, there is no overlapping between the two timelines. While I loved to see so many queer women, the relationships they have with one another are...a let down. Mean Girls ahoy. We have Merritt who says things like “Significant eye roll” or scenes in which characters take selfies, duplies, even quadruplies (uuuugh). More attention is paid to their hair and clothes than their actual personalities. Harper and Merritt begin flirting as soon as they meet, and later on, when there are more scenes of them together, they mostly bicker. They are sort of physically attracted to each other, but there is no real connection between them (I craved longing, passion, LOVE). The creepy elements...aren't all that creepy? If you have spheksophobia you might find this book scary...I mean, wasps do not inspire any real fear in me (I don't like them, they strike me as kind of mean, in fact, I love CalebCity's sketch on them). Mary's writing is extremely camp and I just found it silly. While I could see why the girls back in the 1900s could be enthralled by it...I had a harder time believing that Merritt or Harper could find it as compelling.Perhaps I approached this book with the wrong expectations (I saw Sarah Waters’ name on the cover so…) but Plain Bad Heroines was not the Gothic novel I was hoping it to be. The 'past' timeline was far from being a satisfying historical tale of paranormal suspense (I was hoping for something on the lines of Picnic at Hanging Rock meets A Great and Terrible Beauty). On the plus side: at least it was very sapphic. I also liked the illustrations by Sara Lautman (I wish there had been more) and the chapter names could be kind funny.Anyway, just because I didn’t think that this book was the bees knees (or perhaps I should say wasps knees) doesn’t mean that you won’t love it as it may as well be your cup of tea.
3536706070	If someone had told me that this sapphic horror-comedy set in a cursed boarding school would have turned out to be one my most disappointing reads of the year, I probably wouldn’t have believed them. But after all, this is 2020, and there is no limit to how much the world can let you down.Plain Bad Heroines is a very ambitious novel, and in true dark academia fashion, its ambition also constitutes its fatal flaw. Right from the beginning the writing struck me as self-indulgent and pretentious, as if the author was desperately trying to appear both cultured (the constant name-dropping and overabundance of literary references got really old really fast) and “hip with the kids”, as evidenced by the endless mentions of social media, tweets, Instagram comments and other aspects of internet culture. The story is told by a third-person omniscient narrator, whose over-the-top voice and commentary I found especially grating. In general, every paragraph is egregiously overwritten, filled with wordy descriptions of mundane things that kill the pacing because Danforth uses ten words when one would suffice. Every once in a while the narrator would break the fourth wall to say something like “I know that you, reader, must be on the edge of your seat right now”, which wasn’t just eyeroll-inducing but also unintentionally hilarious because at no point was there any narrative tension. The entire time I was reading, it felt like I was waiting for the plot to start. We follow two alternate timelines that never intersect, making this narrative choice seem pointless and gratuitously complex. Neither storyline has a satisfying conclusion, but the one set in the present felt especially flimsy and weak to me. Not only is there no climax*, the characters themselves don’t evolve in any meaningful way. Our so-called plain bad heroines (who are, nevertheless, described as conventionally attractive and very successful for their young age) witness a series of incidents whose purpose and impact on them remains largely unclear. They don’t experience any growth or inner crisis, making the unsettling events they go through seem like a poor excuse for character development.Which brings me to my last, and perhaps most vehement, complaint about this book: the general lack of substance. With its gloomy setting, occult imagery, and heavy-handed literary references, Plain Bad Heroines does its very best to look deep and layered; but once you start scratching the surface, you realize there’s nothing underneath.If there’s one thing I can’t stand in fiction, it’s empty symbolism: evocative, recurring imagery that seems to have a hidden meaning, but is ultimately hollow. And this book is filled to the brim with empty symbols: from the omnipresent wasps (you thought the author was going to make a parallel with WASP culture and the way it enforced puritanical social norms in America? think again), to the constant references to Mary MacLane’s works, every image conjured by the writing is suggestive yet shallow. In the end, the gothic aesthetic really is just that: a mere aesthetic.*Just to give you an idea of how frustrating this book is: the one steamy sex scene is interrupted halfway through and never resumed. A travesty.
3571428563	This might not have been a 5 star read for me but the author definitely has writing talent. A unique storyteller for sure. However, the pace was a little slow in my opinion and I do think the 600+ page count could have been trimmed down.The story is told in an interesting way as you are being talked to and referred to as the reader throughout. (I'm not explaining that very well, but you'll understand what I mean if you read the book) The Brookhants School for Girls closed for good in the early 1900s after some mysterious deaths on the property. Merritt Weaver wrote a book about the creepy history of the school and now a horror movie is set to be made based on her book. The story will bounce back and forth between the past in which you get the backstory about what happened at the school a century ago and the present day following Merritt and two actresses.I always have to give myself a pep talk when tackling a book that has more than 400 pages. It's a bit of a time commitment, and the older I get, the more I value my time. Pretty soon after I started reading this book, I thought this might be an unusual but cool reading experience with the clever writing, random footnotes, and occasional illustrations. And for the most part that turned out to be true but I just don't feel like I got as much as I wanted to out of this book.At the 100 page mark, then the 200, and even at 300, I kept wondering why it felt like the story hadn't progressed all that much. It was this strange combination of being interesting and yet boring at the same time. I think part of the problem was too much witty commentary that really wasn't necessarily even if it was amusing at times. And while things get moving more in the last third of the book, by that time I was mentally checked out. For me this was more of a creepy read rather than a sleep with the lights on type horror book. Despite some of my issues with the execution, I in no way regret reading it. I appreciate the author's creativity and how she was able to build a story around the real life memoir by Mary MacLane. That memoir was published in the early 1900s and was considered controversial due to the feminist ideas and Sapphic love themes in the book. I won a free advance copy of this book as part of the LibraryThing Early Reviewers program. All views expressed are my honest opinion.
3445448401	this was actually not the dark academia story I expected upon starting, but it was something even better: the spooky sapphic story of my dreams (or nightmares, you choose). full review to come - there's so much to discuss within this solid 600 page tome. also thank you to this book for filling the gaping black hole left by the haunting of bly manor . . . by providing me with more horror and bucketloads of sapphic content > 4.5 stars this was a buddy read with Kelsea but she betrayed me and read the entire 600 page book in two daysthank you to the publishers for gifting me with a copy in exchange for an honest review! <3
3653060273	**4.5**Reading Vlog: https://youtu.be/uxymoWMr3QEI adored this. It is so long and I kept entertained and committed the whole way through which I was not anticipating.The queer representation in this book blew me away. I swear every single character that got a name was queer in this book in some capacity. And it's POLY??? Yes! You heard that right. Polyamory. We truly love to see it.The illustrations in the book are stunning. The prose are stunning. The narrator is so quirky and intelligent and fun. It felt like an adult version of Lemony Snicket.
3787136488	Enjoyable and creepy and meta. It was like reading a season of American Horror Story, but one of the seasons that was just good rather than great. I expected more of the end to tie up the storylines and I'm not sure that happened, or if it happened and I just missed it because it was subtle? Still, I like it.
3385030686	For the past two weeks, I’ve been haunted by a lesbian ghost story, and I hope its ectoplasm hangs around for a long time.“Plain Bad Heroines” is a shapeshifting novel by Emily M. Danforth. A hot amalgamation of gothic horror and Hollywood satire, it’s draped with death but bursting with life.The book opens by calling forth the restless spirit of Mary MacLane. Though now largely forgotten, MacLane electrified America in 1902 when, at the age of 19, she published a shocking memoir originally titled “I Await the Devil’s Coming.” (Until further notice, all double entendres intended.) In this luxuriant confession — what she called her “record of three months of Nothingness” — MacLane announced herself as a kind of female Walt Whitman, bouncing between egotism and eroticism. “I know I am a genius more than any genius that has lived,” she proclaimed, giving voice to frustrated teenagers everywhere. “My strong and sensitive nerves are reeking and swimming in sensuality like drunken little Bacchantes, gay and garlanded in mad revelling.” Looking across the world’s literature, MacLane saw few figures like herself. “I wish,” she wrote, “some one would write a book about a plain, bad heroine so that I might feel in real sympathy with her.”More than a century later, “I Await the Devil’s Coming” is still a gobsmacking book. At the time, it was an instant bestseller and, of course, instantly condemned by the usual powers that be. One can only imagine how young women must have thrilled to read MacLane’s outrageous descriptions of sexual longing.And that’s exactly where “Plain Bad Heroines” begins. “It’s a terrible story,” Danforth writes with . . . .To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...
3393461750	This book left my brain buzzing so much it's hard to know where to start. It is a big fat doorstop of a novel with multiple storylines spanning over a century, a horror novel about a curse that follows a certain kind of independent-minded woman, a Hollywood novel with a behind-the-scenes feel, and a book where almost every single character is queer.A big doorstop of a horror novel should have a few plots and several characters to help drive the momentum and this book mostly does the trick. It stalls out in certain sections, but having another timeline to jump back to makes up for much of that. Meandering is pretty much inevitable in the big doorstop, it is baked in, the important thing is whether you want to keep coming back to it and I always did. What's particularly impressive is that I wasn't really reading to find out the Why, which is usually the horror novel way. I just wanted to see what happened to these characters, how they would crack under the intensifying conditions. (You do get the Why, but Danforth wisely doesn't dive all the way into it, you have to leave a little mystery and I think she gets the balance just right.)Readers who are not usually that into horror will find a lot to enjoy here, though the book is not trying to be sneaky about what it is. It starts right off with a rather gruesome pair of deaths (and it tells you that is what it's going to do, who will die and how is right up front, as is the unique voice and style of the unnamed narrator) and this is clearly Just the Beginning. But while there may be a Big Unspeakable Evil, there is so much more. I am sure queer readers will approach with both excitement and caution. Several queer women die in this book. So let's just get that right out in the open. And there is queer suffering in this book, but there is a lot less of it than you expect. Mostly it's from our early 1900's storyline, a time when girls are allowed to fall in love but only while at school with other girls and then they must go off and marry men. The book starts with a man being mad at a woman for not being womanly enough and indulging in general sapphic inappropriateness, but that first chapter is about as much as you'll get for the rest of it. The general difficulty of being a queer woman in the early 1900's is certainly a part of the story, but actually our protagonists of the time have a pretty good situation for themselves and are able to live basically how they like. You get plenty of indulging in happy early 20th century lesbians along with the horrors a horror novel promises. And then we have the contrast with our modern protagonists, a trio of young queer women including "celesbian" Harper whose queerness is almost never a hindrance to their lives. My critiques are pretty minor. Our present-day trio, Harper, Audrey, and Merritt, each get shortchanged in slightly different ways. (We get so much of Merritt's prickliness and frustration that we get none of her identity as an artist. Harper almost disappears part way through the book for structural suspense reasons but the loss is felt. And Audrey, having to do so much of the latter half's plot, becomes flat on the page, so consumed with the plot that we lose her as a person.) But with critiques this specific, you have to actually be good. With many horror novels I don't get to know characters well enough to get anywhere near this kind of criticism. The horror relies too heavily on the same few cues and the premise of the present-day storyline removes much suspense and the growing dread I would have liked. But I can't be mad, I didn't want to worry that much about the safety of the characters, honestly. The narration is also worth discussing. It is its own character, even if it doesn't make it clear exactly who it is. It is definitely someone, there is far too much happening in the text and the abundant footnotes for it to be omniscience. Good horror knows when to let you relax and laugh, and this is one of the ways this book is smartest.I wasn't sure what to expect from this book, but it definitely exceeded my expectations, both as someone who loves queer fiction and as someone who loves horror.
3839666264	Since I've been reading more 19th century fiction in the past year I have been hungering for a contemporary writer to utilize the particular kind of authorial voice often found in these classic books. I'm sure this has been done in other recent novels but going into Emily M Danforth's “Plain Bad Heroines” I was thrilled to find it includes a narrative voice that self-consciously interjects and steers the story. It only shows up occasionally so as not to be intrusive but it does add another dimension to the story and there's something so playful and comforting about this “dear reader...” style of telling where we all agree to sit down to lose ourselves in a riveting, imaginative tale. Of course, it's a technique that's most commonly and potently used in ghost stories and gothic tales so it's ideally suited to the content of Danforth's creepy and darkly playful novel. The text is also beautifully illustrated with evocative drawings making it feel even more like a Victorian novel. This book is partly a historical novel about a fictional New England boarding school for girls called Brookhants which briefly existed at the beginning of the 20th century. A number of girls are found dead amidst mysterious circumstances which gives rise to rumours and local legends. Interspersed with this tale is a contemporary story about a Hollywood film being made about the deaths of these girls and the supposed curse upon this school. As the book progresses and we move slyly between the past and present, there are numerous twists and turns in the plot which skilfully tread the line between the supernatural and the realistic. The story thrillingly shows how certain characters utilize or exploit this grey area for their own purposes. It's such a richly immersive read for its atmospheric detail that gives the spooky ooky factor while also making me desperate to know what happens next. Read my full review of Plain Bad Heroines by Emily M Danforth on LonesomeReader
3611001791	I received a copy of this from Netgalley in exchange for a review.Yet another one of those books from this year about which I cannot fathom the hype. What this has going for it is that it's incredibly queer, but unfortunately there isn't much more to the plot beyond that. First of all, if I was into facetious content warnings, here is where I would give one for yellow jackets; if you dislike or god forbid despise yellow jackets as I do, beware, swarms of this predatory social wasp that is the bane of my backyard are one of the main characters; indeed, two girls are killed by wasps within the first few pages. These girls, Clara and Flo, are students at the Brookhants School for Girls in 1902 and are ostensibly members of the Plain Bad Heroine Society, although that isn't really explained beyond them being avid readers of The Story of Mary MacLane, a possibly cursed book that appears to be in the excerpts quoted about being annoyed at lots of things and wanting the devil to save you from them and being a lesbian in a time when there was zero being out of the closet. After the deaths of Clara and Flo, the story jumps to present day and into the perspectives of actress Audrey Wells, actress Harper Harper, and writer Merritt Emmons. The first two women are set to appear in a movie being made about the book the latter wrote about Clara and Flo. This is interwoven with the lives of principal Libbie Brookhants and her "companion/roommate" Alex Trills, a teacher at the school, in 1902 in the aftermath of the deaths of Clara and Flo. The movie is a red herring, as is Merritt's book; at no point did I have any idea what either of them were about beyond Clara and Flo kissing because very little is said about the Plain Bad Heroine Society, who else is in it nor what they do in the society, nor indeed who any of the other girls in the school are besides one other who gets a name and then dies horribly. It's incredibly frustrating that most of the present day story revolves around what part Audrey is going to audition for and whether or not she's a good actress, Harper Harper's instagram feed and fans, and whether Merritt wants to hook up with Harper or not, and that many of the creepy little bits that I expected to be aha moments (say, the plants in the Orangerie on campus growing eerily lush for no reason, the director's meta plan for his second movie, or who Alex sees in the picture in the tower) fizzle out without going anywhere. I enjoyed the bits about what school was like at Brookhants (and will henceforth talk about being smashed on my crushes as well as wanting to smash them) but most of this comes from Merritt telling Harper what it was like rather than the reader getting to experience it for themselves. There is a lot of kissing, often while yellow jackets are swarming, and the kissing is hot and excellent even though the yellow jackets are the opposite of that, but I was expecting gothic horror/comedy along with the queerness, especially from the way it was talked up in Harper Collins' book buzz, and I found this to be pretty disappointing altogether.
3357374520	Brookhants School for Girls has a troubled past littered with myriad unfortunate ends that befall the females who dwell there. Over one-hundred years later and both the horror and allure of this eerie spot still holds it sway. This is especially true for Merritt, who has penned a fictional account of all that historically transpired, and the actresses, Harper and Audrey, who are to star in her movie adaptation, both set and filmed upon this doomed spot.Whilst the initial story-line was intriguing enough alone, I can only stand back in awe and applaud all the divergent narratives and side-plots that Danforth managed to pack into these 500 pages. Not one single character knew the whole truth of what was occurring and the reader too was forever kept just short of pulling together the threads for the abundant mysteries featured here. This convoluted style of storytelling became even further muddled with the ever shifting character focus and chronological order. I had a tricky time obtaining and then keeping the few facts Danforth reluctantly allowed the reader, and so have no idea how she managed to so cleverly construct and link them all!Asides from remaining mesmerised by the complexities for all that occurred, I also adored how diverse this cast of characters was. I had no idea who to root for when every single female was so fierce, independent, and just an all-round good, plain bad heroine. Sapphic, wonderful, brilliance!The horrifying elements and eerie atmosphere remained light (which was the aim but not what I had anticipated from not looking into the genre tags thoroughly enough) and there was a point, around the central portion of the novel, where I longed for an increase in the pacing. These were minor shortfalls and, for the rest of this chunky tome, I remained enamoured, intrigued, mystified, and delighted.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Emily M. Danforth, and the publisher, The Borough Press, for this opportunity.
3525323568	I received an ARC of this novel from a Goodreads Giveaway hosted by William Morrow. All opinions are my own.Plain Bad Heroines is Emily M. Danforth’s adult debut. I had not heard of this book before finding it listed for a Goodreads giveaway. The description sounded right up my alley, so I decided to try my luck at entering for an ARC. I was so shocked when I won, but it was really exciting, especially since it would only be my second time winning a physical ARC. When I say this book had hooked me right from the start, I mean it. This book is pitched as gothic horror comedy like The Haunting of Hill House meets The Favourite. This was enough to have my attention, but the premise itself takes that a step further. The story weaves from 1902 to over a century later to focus on a cast of characters who are all connected to the seemingly cursed Brookhants School for Girls. In 1902, the school is run by Libbie Brookhants. Two students, Flo and Clara, attend this school when they become infatuated with Mary MacLane’s writing and each other before their tragic deaths, leaving Libbie to deal with the aftermath and the school’s eventual closing. The novel explores Libbie’s own backstory and relationship with her partner Alex as well. Over a century later, Merritt Emmons writes a novel titled The Happening at Brookhants, which is then set to be adapted into a film. Actors Harper Harper and Audrey Wells are cast as Flo and Clara, which finally sets up the multiple timelines the novel explores and opens the doors to Brookhants again. Plain Bad Heroines was such a fun read for me. I love when novels have nonlinear timelines that weave together multiple other stories. This book is like a story within a story within a story that features novels within a novel and a film within a film as well. It seems like a complex concept that may be hard to follow, but it really was not as daunting as it may seem. I think the narration and writing of the novel helps avoid possible confusion. I really like how the novel actually addresses readers. It employs a lot of footnotes too, which I thought was really cool. The pacing and flow are excellent as well. Danforth definitely plays up the humor aspect but expertly pairs it with darker and creepier moments. Brookhants is very atmospheric, and it was really interesting to see all the stories there. I loved a lot of the characters but especially the main trio: Merritt, Audrey, and Harper. Many of the characters featured in this novel are sapphic, but Danforth also includes a budding sapphic polyamorous relationship. It was beautiful to see how this relationship developed and played out. I also just want to mention that Sara Lautman absolutely killed it with her artwork. It was incredible and definitely helped with emphasizing the atmosphere Danforth was creating. The cover and illustrations within the novel are stunning. Emily M. Danforth impressed me so much with this book. Her writing draws readers in, and the story itself is just so fascinating. I honestly cannot wait to pick up a finished copy, and I’m hoping to collect both the US and UK editions. I would highly recommend this to anyone who likes sapphic dark academia!! Thank you to William Morrow and Goodreads for giving me the opportunity to read and review this novel before its release on October 20th, 2020.*Content warning: insects, death, queer suffering, forced institutionalization*
3557360326	2.5???Wtf even was the second half of the book tbh
4196238362	I picked up Plain Bad Heroines based on the recommendation of a coworker since she ais pretty much my reader advisory in all things horror as I am still relatively new to the book genre. The prospect of actually starting the book was daunting since it was over 600 pages long, but pages filled with illustrations and footnotes covering a large number of pages made it more than bearable. Even though the book was long, there were not many boring parts other than a few chapters with certain POVs that dragged. Let me just say that after reading this book, I do not look at yellow jackets, hornets, and wasps the same way anymore.The premise of the story was interesting, and the prose was quite fun to read. The narrator was unreliable and went on tangents yet was so engaging to read. The footnotes left by the narrator explained parts of the story that the narrator just didn’t care to put into the meat of the story that helped build the universe the novel took place in. I liked the author’s writing and liked the two separate timelines with one timeline taking place in the present following the making of a movie based on the other past timeline’s events. Each character in this book was written uniquely with their own flaws and ambitions where most had great characterization. I disliked some of the characters, but eventually I came around to like most of them except for one or two characters. My favorite characters were Alex and Audrey since it was fun to see their character growth while each having interesting backgrounds. The inclusion of multiple LGBTQ+ characters was interesting to compare the two different eras in how they were treated and how they acted based on societal constraints. I also liked how some things were left open ended with the reader supposed to fit the pieces together on what was not said. Some problems I had with that though were unexplained motivations by some characters or less important mysteries that got swept under the rug.I guess my biggest fault I had with the book is how it is ordered. So many times, are POVs changed or cut off with every chapter alternating its POV. One instance of this occurring vexed me since the POV stopped on a major cliffhanger and didn’t get back to it until many pages later. There was also a lot of jumping around time skip wise where it felt disjointed at times. I don’t mean just jumping between the timelines, but an event would occur, and we wouldn’t get back to the characters until weeks or even months later. I didn’t dislike the character Harper Harper, but I felt she was more shallow than other characters where her POV characterization didn’t really fit with how her character acts in other characters’ POVs compared to how she is supposed to act in her own. I liked the ending enough even if it felt a little empty. I could see certain mysteries and other things coming relatively early on so the twists didn’t come as much as a surprise.Overall, it was a fun book with a unique premise. It reminded me a bit of books by Simone St. James story structure wise in ways as well. I would not mind a video adaption of the story even if I might not be the target audience for said adaption. Bring on the yellow jackets!Find this book and other titles within our catalog.
4424885955	It has been a long time since I've had a book give me such conflicting thoughts. Straight from the offset I could tell why this book is so big. The writing style is self-indulgent, one full of excess details, exposition and footnotes that aren't necessary to the story. The narrator was sassy, interacting directly with the reader and adding small quips throughout. It's a style I've enjoyed before in other books, but one I couldn't entirely wrap my head around in this book as it seemed to contradict the tone of the story itself. We would break away from a petty argument amongst wannabe Hollywood stars to a footnote likened to a historical text, and bounce between the two regularly enough to feel like two stories running side by side but not necessarily going in the same direction. Likewise, this book was dotted with illustrations throughout, which were a nice added element, but one I didn't really understand. Sure, there doesn't need to be a reason. But between this and the above, it felt like all of these ways of telling a story were from three different books and mashed together like an ill-fitting puzzle piece. Still, I was invested enough to read the entire thing. I wanted to know what the point of the story was, and there was enough intrigue surrounding the school's horror stories of old to keep me going. Granted, it took a long time for me to differentiate between the characters, and I likely would have been much more invested had I come to know them better sooner in the story. As it was, I was relying on the plot to keep me invested. Sadly I'm still not entirely sure what the point was, especially in this being so long - but I did love the vaguely supernatural side of things, and how the many stories were gradually becoming further entangled the longer we spent as the school. Unfortunately once I hit the 400 page mark I was just waiting for it to end, so while I enjoyed it to an extent I can't rate it any higher than a middle-of-the-road-ok style rating. I can't help but feel like this should have been edited into a much shorter book.
3631444476	Plain Bad Heroines is like a labyrinthine wasps nest- intricate, patterned, with moments that will fly out and sting you. (also wasps are a heavy motif throughout the book, so it only seems appropriate) It is unabashedly sapphic with creeping horror and interweaving plots and characters. In some ways it is a love letter to unlikeable "bad" women, to women who love other women (now and throughout history), and to storytelling. (It is, after all, a story within a story, within a story.) It also includes some of my favorite tropes. Like being set at a girls boarding school with dark secrets, and having a gothic sort of horror.This is one that is worth going in knowing little, and while the audiobook is fantastic (thank you to Libro.FM for the audio review copy!) I am also very glad I had a hardcover copy to read along with. It's filled with beautiful and creepy illustrations, even in unexpected places. I had a feeling I was going to love this one, and I certainly wasn't wrong. In brief, here are the stories in question.1) A queer, "bad" young woman wrote and published a diary of sorts, filled with her intense feelings and unconventional thinking. A book which was published with a red cover and....2) Was passed around a girls boarding school circa 1902, by young women who began the Plain Bad Heroines Society, some of who were involved with one another intimately. It also became connected with the violent deaths of some of these young women, and affected the lives of two middle aged women in a sapphic relationship, working at the school with secrets of their own.3) In the modern day, a young woman has written a book about what happened in 1902, and now that book is being made into a film. A horror film, with queer actresses and disturbing things happening even before they begin the shoot.Suffice to say, this was beautifully written, unsettling, with moments of more disturbing horror and strong, distinct female characters woven throughout every era of storytelling. This emphasizes the (very real) existence of queer women in history, and the ways that queerness today can sometimes be approached in a voyeuristic manner. There is a quote about how the film focused on the young women who died, because no one cares about middle-aged, domesticated sapphics. Which sadly isn't wrong in Hollywood much of the time. It's smart, haunting, and intricately written. I loved it.
3611275948	I’m not often angry that I finished a book, but I am very angry that I read this insanely long, (unnecessarily so, I might add) novel that drags on for 700 pages of absolute fluff. Nothing ever really happens, nothing is ever really resolved, the characters are thoroughly unlikable from start to finish, and it all seems to be building up to something that never happens, and then it abruptly ends. BOOOOO. Save yourself the money, hours, and brain space for a better book, because this one is not that.
3614366955	I received this book for free from the publisher (William Morrow Books) in exchange for an honest review. This was such a unique read! The best part of this book was definitely the overall vibe and aesthetic. It had a slightly creepy and gothic feel that ran throughout the entire book, even the present day parts. There was also a fair amount of humor and satire that worked well with the gothic vibes and made for an interesting juxtaposition. The structure of the book was very clever. The story within a story element was well done and very engaging. I also liked the footnotes. They were very entertaining and added even more humor to the story.The story started out very strong, but I was a little disappointed at the end. It didn’t live up to my expectations. I was expecting more of a big reveal or an “a-ha” moment. There are still some things that I am a little confused on. This book is classified by horror, but many other reviewers say they find it to be very light on horror. I agree with that and I would say that it is more of a gothic horror. The horror is more of a gothic creepiness than any sort of gore or violence. The book also has illustrations throughout the book which I found to be a nice touch. There is even a map of the school which made navigating the story easy. Overall, I enjoyed the aesthetic of this book the most. I recommend it if you’re looking for something a little different to read.
3445796169	less books that try to “make” “sense,” more books with a cast of 99% gay characters, strange deaths at an all girl’s boarding school, and an absurd amount of levels of texts about texts about texts. this book feels like the product of my every dreaming emotion about picnic at hanging rock (2018) and affinity and lesbian archives and it’s perfect, especially because it doesn’t try to be (and as we all know, in the dark, there is possibility). just delicious and completely excessive.
3603515781	When I am considering throwing a book across the room, I sometimes refer to the one- and two-star reviews of that book, to see if anyone out there felt the same upon finishing the book as I did upon reaching the 15% mark. This is how I decide whether I should press on, or DNF.Note that I very rarely DNF as early as 15%. But a 619-page book is too long to hate-read. What I Hated About Plain Bad HeroinesThe narrator. What I love about a Kindle is that it will coldly and impersonally tell me that the word "Readers" appeared in this book 183 times. "...those names should ring a bell for you, Readers, if you've been paying attention." "Put simply, Readers: they text each other first with the news." After about the 3rd instance I could hardly stand it. 180 more? NO.The footnotes. There are SO MANY and they are STUPID and have NO RELEVANCE TO THE BOOK WHATSOEVER. The long, long, longggggg flashbacks full of entirely unnecessary information. For example, one flashback starts on page 74 and is meant to show the first contact, three months prior, between Merritt and Harper. In this flashback we follow Merritt through: a trip to the library, some texts at the library, Merritt rushing home and making herself lemon-honey tea, Merritt then sitting on the porch swing, memories of her father having made the porch swing, several pages about therapy Merritt and her mother went through after the father's death, an extremely excruciatingly long phone conversation (finally) between Merritt and Harper, Merritt's mother arriving home with a guy she used to date, Merritt's mother explaining she just stopped at home to get her phone, Merritt being rude to the guy, and then, not quite lastly, Merritt's mom suggesting kebabs for dinner. After all that, the flashback still goes on for another page or so. At page 88 we finally wrap the thing up. At which point I start searching for one- and two-star reviews. The boring and pointless sentences. Like - there's a buzzing sound, and then - "It was Audrey's phone; Noel had kept it for her in the side pocket of his shorts during their run, and it was still there, and he was half sitting on it." I mean - WHY?To sum up: life is short. DNF at will.
3492695053	4.5 stars
3668643279	A gothic atmosphere? Check. Tonnes of queer/Sapphic representation? Check. An all-girls boarding school with a dark past? Check. Stories-within-stories? Check. A New England setting? Check. Plain Bad Heroines ticks a lot of boxes and I am so thankful to @boroughpress for sending me this beautiful ARC to read and review.Plain Bad Heroines begins back in 1902 when two female students, who happen to be lovers with a mutual obsession for a controversial book by Mary MacLane, tragically die on the grounds of Brookhants School. Jump forward to present day when a movie is being made based on the book about said girls and their seemingly cursed school. The novel then continues to move back and forth between these two timelines as secrets and mysteries are revealed.First of all, I simply loved the narrator in this. They were very witty and funny, speaking directly to the reader, as well as inserting lots of footnotes, which I know doesn’t work for everyone, but I love a footnote, I do. There are also black and white illustrations dispersed throughout and who doesn’t love illustrations?! The issue with having two different timelines is that you often feel an affinity for one over the other – and I certainly preferred the 1902 storyline in this instance – but both worked well together.However, I do feel that a couple of hundred pages could have easily been shaved off this. It’s over 600 pages long and although it did keep my attention, the pace really slowed down at times to the point where you felt like you were wading through mud. I also felt that the ending was somewhat anticlimactic, which is disappointing.On the whole though, I had a good time reading this! It’s fun and witty, there are creepy wasps EVERYWHERE, lots of well-drawn queer heroines and a fascinating setting. Not everything worked for me, but I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend if you enjoy a chunky book! 3.5 stars.
3696323059	The tale Emily M. Danforth weaves is one of a slow creeping horror, luring readers into a false sense of security with summer days and false promises before unleashing upon them the Brookhants curse in all its might. The clever weaving of timelines, leaves readers caught between anticipation and dread, wondering if the mistakes of the past are doomed to be repeated.I don’t know if any book has ever left me as confused about my own feelings towards it as Plain Bad Heroines. I honestly don’t know if I even liked this book, although I definitely didn’t dislike it. So, excuse the mess that is the following review.To begin with, there were lots of things I liked about this book or thought were well done. Primarily, the sapphicism. Plain Bad Heroines is full of sapphic characters (every significant character in the large cast is sapphic), the lore and influences are sapphic and, something I particularly loved, the book actually uses the word ‘sapphic’, which I hadn’t seen in a book before. Additionally, I really liked the drawings and formatting; the footnotes were fun and helpful and worked really well with the story. I am not a huge horror fan but I thought the horror aspects were really well done and left me unsettled and just as unsure as our heroines as to what was even real.Unfortunately, the length, pacing and sheer scope of this book overshadowed individual plotlines and characters and, ultimately, my own enjoyment. While I believe the book could have been trimmed down, my reason for taking issue with this is mostly due to my own taste. I am not a fan of dense, slow paced books and, recently, I have simply not had the attention span for such a long book. With so much happening and so many characters to follow, I felt like I didn’t have a chance to really connect with any of them. This led to a lack of care for their fates or investment in the story.So you see, dear Reader, Plain Bad Heroines is a tricky book to review. On one hand, it’s cleverly crafted and does everything it sets out to do. On the other, it’s long. Like, really long. And the sheer size of the novel works against it, drawing the tension out and out until there’s nothing there. Overall, while I can appreciate the talent and skill of the novel, it simply wasn’t for me. Plain Bad Heroines is a haunting, Gothic tale that, despite my personal grievances, I can see becoming a cult classic and inspiring the same obsession as The Story of Mary MacLane.I also talk about books here: youtube | instagram | twitter *ARC received second hand*
3586642439	This is queer, meta and mega fun. Old fashioned when necessary and wittily hip otherwise. Prepare yourself for a book within a book, stories within stories and a movie within a movie. Not to mention quirky footnotes and line drawings reminiscent of Edward Gorey. I’m allergic to bee stings and now yellow jackets will positively put me into a fearful frenzy.
3570701299	Giving it one star because I preserved and finished this hot mess of a book.
3358413658	I actually received an ARC of this way back in the beginning of the year (thank you Netgalley and HarperCollins!), but the length and all the other weird crap happening this year somewhat daunted me, and I never got around to actually reading it ... until my buddy Ron Charles printed HIS rave review in WaPo, which impelled me to crack it open. But I think the wait was actually perfect, since after the annual Booker marathon and the drudgery of the US election, I desperately NEEDED something fun and different - and boy howdy, is this just that in spades! Although it took me 10 days to read it, that is no reflection on the book itself - for the most part it is involving, nah, often riveting, and just so clever. Sure, maybe a judicious final edit COULD have eliminated some of the more languid passages and cut a good 100 pages, but it never seemed particularly plodding. Often when, as here, there are two separate stories told in two different time periods, one is vastly more interesting and entertaining than the other - but both these stories are sufficiently fleshed out and intriguing that one doesn't really prefer one to the other - they are BOTH essential. A final note - since several reviews pointed out how central to the plot Mary MacLane's 1902 memoir I Await the Devil's Coming is to this, I felt it MIGHT be essential to have read that prior to, so I did - although it might have marginally increased my appreciation, MacLane's book is a repetitious slog, and Danforth provides plenty of quotes, so that it isn't really necessary to wade through it to get the gist. And Truman Capote's Answered Prayers: The Unfinished Novel is ALSO invoked and plays a part - one of the few things I thought DIDN'T particularly work well - but is also unnecessary to have read to enjoy this. If you want something totally bonkers, but a helluva lot of fun, this is the book for you.
3632579359	I finished this book back in November, but I have frankly been intimidated to review it. This is a big, twisty, ambitious novel that I’m still processing now.I appreciated the skill involved here, and I love that this is such a queer book absolutely brimming with sapphic characters, but I’m not sure I’d say I enjoyed reading it. It was unsettling. I also felt like I couldn’t quite penetrate through to the core of the story. What started this haunting? What does it mean? I love that there are so many queer characters, but it also means that they are the ones being targeted: why? Is it a metaphor for homophobia? That feels too pat for this story, and it doesn’t quite fit. Is even asking that question too simplifying? I’m not sure I have the skills to unpack everything this story is trying to accomplish.This is a complicated, ambitious novel that will leave you thinking about it long after you’ve put the book down.Full review at the Lesbrary.
5305959752	Danforth's The Miseducation of Cameron Post is a masterpiece of American literature parading as a YA novel—in fact, it may well be the only masterpiece of American literature parading as a YA novel. Which is not to say the publisher made a mistake—it is a YA novel, and anyway, selling it that way clearly put an incredible book into the hands of a great many real-life YAs (a decent number of whom, judging by the reviews, had no clue what they were in for). But this is not a review of Cameron Post, which you should all read posthaste; rather, what we have here is emily m. danforth’s follow-up. Suffice to say, it is not a masterpiece of American literature that teenagers will still be reading a hundred years from now, bemused, I hope, by the bizarre social mores of the 90s. It is, however, quite good. Good—and also, a much better book than it at first appears. So far as I can tell, Plain Bad Heroines is the work of an exceptionally gifted writer who gave herself free reign to write exactly how and what she wanted, audience be damned, and came up with something playful, more than a little ridiculous, and, at many turns if not every turn, more sophisticated than its surface would suggest. Beneath the pop-fiction plotting, the at times (I’m convinced) intentionally shallow characterization, the glib narrative asides and winking footnotes, lies the kind of psychological depth that is only really possible when an omnipotent narrator dances from perspective to perspective, showing now this shade and now that. So that the story—and the haunting that drives it—is in delicious tension with the novel’s overall tone, a tone that heedlessly (and again, dear Readers, intentionally) carries the 19th-centuryisms of the historical chapters into the present, and the social-media-inflected present right back to 1902.Somehow both a little too long and a little too fast, but perhaps, dear Readers, not to be underestimated.
4274771919	The story idea and delivery were good but the book its self was just too wordy. The same good story could have been told and been just as good in about 100 less pages. The tale went back and forth from 1900 to modern day with alternate viewpoints by different characters present during that time period. I also don’t understand why it’s deemed a “horror” novel. Maybe it is if you’re 12 years old but it loses the creep factor for adults. I believe the author was trying to connect the strange occurrences taking place during the filming of the movie being made at the school and what happened on the site in the early 1900 events. Something was lost in the time spans. The book seems to have two themes; one about the proposed supernatural events and the other about being gay. It would have been better if one theme or the other was the main event.
3616000098	This book was a bit of a struggle for me. It’s overlong and had two timelines and sometimes this works for me and sometimes I find myself wanting to stay immersed in one which is the case here. I’ll write an actual review when I sort through my thoughts but for now it’s a low three because I had to force myself to read it and felt a little let down by the end. Maybe closer to a 2.75 tbh. But if I rate a two people will scream at me and I’m not up for a round of that right now 🙀
3658526219	Danforth seems to have bitten off more than she could chew here. She is juggling two different timelines, and lots of characters (one seriously named Harper Harper, no I'm not over it yet!), and all of their back stories, and unfortunately, none of it is done very well.
3581543054	A completely fascinating tale... that fizzles out at the end Plain Bad Heroines was one of my most anticipated reads of the year. I am a sucker for a lesbian tale. Add in a Gothic New England boarding school for girls? Sold. The story centers around two time periods. The first, 1902, at the Brookhants School for Girls, run by Libbie Brookhants. A book by a young writer, Mary MacLane has come out--one that's incredibly scandalous for the times. Two Brookhants girls, Flo and Clara, are obsessed with it and establish The Plain Bad Heroine Society. The two are in love, meeting in secret--until they are attacked by yellow jackets at their hiding spot, a copy of the book found with them. A few years later the school closes, but not until after more scandal and death. Now, our second period, over a hundred years later, where Merritt Emmons, a young writer, publishes a book about Flo and Clara's story. It inspires a horror film starring Harper Harper, a famous lesbian actress. Harper will be playing Flo and B-list actress Audrey Wells, Clara. Filming on-site at the abandoned Brookhants site, the three women converge. But soon, weird things start happening, and the curse of Brookhants seems back to haunt the set--and our three modern-day heroines. This book is absolutely enthralling at times. I flew through these 619 pages, that's for sure. My notes state "very lesbian," which is, of course, a major plus for me. Believe me, we don't get a lot of books starring ourselves. And you know, where we are killed off by swarms of yellow jackets. I honestly found both storylines compelling. It's hard not to fall a bit in love with Harper Harper, the charismatic celebrity (out!) lesbian. And 1902 isn't just about Clara and Flo, but Libbie Brookhants and her life trying to run a cursed school in the early 1900s. Honestly, the pages really flew by most of the time. Though, there are certainly moments where I felt some of the story could have been cut. And yes, the narrative style is different, though it really adds to the uniqueness of the book. It's basically told by an omnipresent narrator, talking directly to the reader. There are footnotes, often humorous ones, and the end result is something you don't often find. For the most part, I felt like Danforth pulled it off, too. I do think Libbie was a little more fully developed than Merritt, Harper, and Audrey, but that also may have been because that trio could come across as a bit spoiled at times. Probably my two biggest issues with this book (regretfully): for a Gothic horror novel, it's not really that scary. There are a few creepy and eerie moments, especially in the beginning, but it never really builds up to that terrifying moment that you're expecting. And, somewhat related, the ending. We read and stick with our various tales for the entire time and then... poof! Everything just fizzles out. I was so bummed. The ending was such a disappointment after all I'd read and kept this from being a full-fledged 4 or 4.5-star read. I couldn't believe it after what we'd been through. It was like even the author was tired. So, overall, this is an original and fascinating read. I'm certainly still advising you to read it (especially if you're queer or enjoy reading queer fiction). Just be prepared that the ending may not have that big scary moment you're expecting. 3.5 stars, though I'm rounding to 4 here on Goodreads. A big thanks to HarperCollins and William Morrow for my copy!Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Instagram ~ PaperBackSwap ~ Smashbomb
3563222869	This was such a strange and wonderful book. It just had so many elements that really worked for me. A bunch of sapphic characters, dark things happening at an all girls boarding school, storylines that play out in different timelines, a mix of horror and comedy, and a fun meta aspect. The story was so atmospheric, there were some genuinely creepy moments that made my skin crawl. And even though the tone would switch back and forth between gothic horror and meta comedy, it always felt organic. It never felt like I was getting whiplash from the switches in plot and style. I can see why this might not work for some people. If you’re going in expecting it to only be a horror story you might be let down by the other tones and genres that are present within the story. It’s also a pretty lengthy book that doesn’t have a super fast paced plot. But I personally enjoyed getting sucked into the story and slowly reading the 600+ pages over the course of a week. The vibe of this book was so unique. I was totally sucked into the story and loved my time reading it. I’m so interested to see what emily m. danforth writes next. I just hope there won’t be another 8 year gap in between her books.
3953148124	All stars for the experience and atmospheric buildup. In total a 3.5 though.PS: Would 100 percent recommend for a day when you are looking for a good book that'll really keep you hooked.
3650177966	I have mixed feelings on this one. This is a multiple timelines horror that involves some historical fiction elements and ties in fame, Hollywood, and a whole lot of sapphic romance.First, I’ll start with the good. This book had some incredible moments of creeping horror, tension, eerie atmosphere, and gross out skin crawling scares. I loved the historical timelines and wish we had spent a lot more time with Libby, Alex, and the younger girls. Those historical storylines were incredibly immersive and fascinating. I also loved the plethora of WLW romances in this novel!Now on to the not so good...The modern day timeline was my least favourite to spend time in. The characters felt far less developed despite having more page time (many of them fell quite flat or were just absolutely insufferable), and the horror elements weren’t nearly as scary.There were also some technical aspects about the writing of this novel that I didn’t love. First of all, the pacing was a bit odd. This book had a super slow start ramped up two thirds of the way through and then a very abrupt and unsatisfying ending. The amount of time spent between the different timelines was also incredibly unbalanced.Then there’s the writing style itself. The narrator of this book is omniscient and speaks directly to the reader(s) with many asides. I didn’t love this take and felt that it pulled me out of the story and broke the sense of immersion.And then we have my biggest pet peeve about this book which was the use of text speak, abbreviations, and references to emojis within the text. Please don’t say TBH instead of “to be honest”. Please don’t have the narrator spew “heart eyes emoji” or “hashtag fail”. It felt like when your baby boomer parents try really hard to be in on the cool kids’ speak and was just incredibly cringy. All that being said, I enjoyed the process of listening to the audiobook (which was very well done), and I’d be interested in reading more from this author. I think this book was too long and could’ve used more editing and refinement, but it was still a very interesting story that creeped me out without being excessively gory or violent or disturbed.Trigger Warnings: Suicide, death, creepy/gross insect contentThank you to Libro.fm for the ALC copy.VIDEO REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEUKd...You can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | Twitter
3619918268	DNFThis is was one of my most anticipated book in this year. But from the start itself the story became more annoyed with the narration part. The continuous reference as the "Readers" made me feel like an audience; not a player which I hate most when reading a book.The other main reason to DNF is the footnotes, which I found that it's nothing to go with the story.All most all the readers have enjoyed this book, but unfortunately it didn't work for me.
4308388235	lol what was this book. I have zero thoughts about it and am guaranteed to not remember any of it within a few days. It also took me 6 months to read it.
3573441092	Content warnings: death (including drowning), gore, insect (yellow jacket), hallucination, internet trolls, alcohol (recreational, abuse), fat-shaming, murder, manipulation, PTSD (maybe)I listened to the audiobook of Danforth’s Plain Bad Heroines narrated by Xe Sands. The narration itself was, without a doubt, 5 stars. I don’t think I would enjoy the book as much if not for Sands’ performance since her voice, always with a slight tremor and purposefully distorted in hallucinations as well as under curses, made this horror story feel creepier than it would have been on paper.The structure and storytelling of the story are incredible. It opened with Clara’s and Flo’s deaths by yellow jackets in 1902 at the Brookhants School for Girls. Back in the present day, actor Audrey Wells (20s, bi) and celesbian Harper Harper (lesbian) are set to star in Bo Dhillon’s (gay, Indian-American) horror movie The Happenings of Brookhants based on the book by Merritt Emmons (20s, sapphic).The parallel between the past and the present as well as the mysteriousness of a certain copy of Mary MacLane’s (bi, a real person) The Story of Mary MacLane are the best things in the bigger picture of Plain Bad Heroines. There were clear themes of generational struggles, inheritance, and heritage weaved through and within the different timelines. One other major theme that tied everything together was trickery and deceit, which fades in and out of the story.Since Flo and Clara tragically died in the beginning, we didn’t get to learn too much about them, and I am completely content with that. We are then introduced to another misfortune of Brookhants student Eleanor Faderman. Half of the story also followed the past timeline with principal Libbie Packard Brookhants, her lover Alex Trills, and Adelaide.I adore Alex. There are a lot of characters in the book but I love Alex the most and I don’t even know why. The other characters in the early 1900s weren’t particularly lovable but each has distinct personalities. As for the modern trio, I love how their relationships with each other changes and evolves. Merritt was impossibly rude toward Audrey in the beginning, and while I kept wondering why anyone would say such hurtful things, I also accept that the characters were flawed human beings, and they say pitiful things out of spite like most people do in real life. I slowly warmed up to Merritt, and she just might be my favorite person in the present time.Danforth’s cinematic writing delivered wonderful details and vividly painted visual pictures of everywhere the characters went. I love how careful the word choices were and that the narration not only brought the physical settings alive, it, along with the dialogues, clearly characterized everyone in the story. It is always great to feel like I know the characters intimately rather than just in passing. I also appreciate that Danforth kept most dialogue tags.Almost all the women are sapphic in PBH, including Flo and Clara, Libbie, Alex, and Adelaide, Harper, Audrey, and Merritt, and even Elaine. There were other casual queer characters, including Bo and Kai (they/them). It made me really happy that queerness is the norm throughout the whole book.I took a little too long to listen to the audiobook and my understanding of the plot suffered a little bit from that. Given this tome of a book, I am not entirely sure that I would relisten it, especially since I do not need more descriptions of yellow jackets materializing in faucets, but PBH is so rich and beautiful that, had I had all the time in the world, I would definitely listen and read it over and over again.The ending of PBH was carefully and wonderfully crafted. I love the shift of power and relationship in the final scene. I truly appreciate the hint of sapphic empowerment at the ending. Whatever tragic events that took place at the Brookhants School for Girls in the past were overpowered by the hopefulness and excitement for the future in the closing scene in the present. Danforth did a beautiful job at writing this open ending, leaving just enough for imagination without too many unresolved loose ends.My main and only complaint of the book was that the pacing became a bit too fast toward the end. The final scenes in the past felt like an info dump, introducing characters never seen before. I understand the necessity of keeping things a mystery, but it felt slightly unbalanced compared to the rest of the book.Throughout PBH, the narrator, an omniscient entity, mixes reality with hallucination, everyday lives with curses, that it wasn’t easy to determine what was real and what was not. But aren’t our lives the same? Things we aren’t sure were dreams or not, events painted by the media that could only have been half-truths. I love that the book left a bit of ambiguity in the horror aspect—was it some sort of sapphic power? Was the book about the joy and curse of being queer?I don’t read a lot of metafiction, and more often than not, I dislike the preachiness that sometimes comes with the storytelling technique. But not Plain Bad Heroines. I didn’t particularly feel that the narrator was intentionally concealing information, and maybe because I listened to the audiobook, I love that it added yet another layer to the storytelling, in addition to the movie being made about Merritt’s book.Plain Bad Heroines is a very light horror and I enjoyed every minute of Sands’ narration and Danforth’s writing. The eeriness of the yellow jackets, moss, and apples stretches beyond the love of Flo and Clara, the dreams of Libbie and Alex, the dramatics of the modern trio, and into the world of each and everyone of the readers.
3468164287	This is an Important Book without being a very good one. It's trendy, with great big LGBT themes and interest and characters. This alone earns it a place in the pantheon of Books For Our Times. It's also women-focused, telling the tale of ahead-of-their-time boarding-school students in 1902 as well as of-their-time Hollywood starlets in the present day, all of which feminists will applaud. The book also reaches back to resurrect an historical piece of feminist manifesto, "The Story of Mary Maclane," a larger-than-life rebellious autobiography by a non-conformist rebel woman who the heroines in the boarding-school time period devote their energies to worshiping. The narrator's style is Dickensian, with lots of "dear reader" asides, footnotes, and meta-narrative exclamations and commentaries. ("F*** Roman Polanski!") that are amusing without quite jiving with the tales in either time period. And herein lies the root of the book's problem. It is trying to be 2 different books, in my opinion: the 1902 story, a gothic tale of ghostly visitations, girlish crushes and Victorian goings-on and manners, a story of boarding-school antics with something sinister beneath, complete with age-appropriate illustrations as well as typeset. This would have been a grand story to tell, engrossing and engaging, a tale of conflicts between Society and a girls' secret society, between lusts and duties, between women beginning to blossom and all the natural and supernatural forces that try to stunt their growth. And then there's the modern-day tale of actresses, writers and Hollywood types trying to tell the story of the girls from 1902. This is a totally different book, naturally, but I felt that the two tales did not intertwine in quite the way the author may have been hoping; rather, I felt frustrated when the 1902 story cut off and the modern one picked up. I felt more connected emotionally to the Victorian girls than the modern ones, but the author has chosen to concentrate more on them.The book is in addition overly long and filled with pages and pages of (in my opinion) unnecessary descriptions of scenes and backstories.
3493108073	heathur actually likes a dark academia?? what a concept WOW THIS BOOKokay so excuse the mess this review will likely be because this books was.. interesting. first let’s talk about my critiques. this is an inception-esque book if I’ve ever read one. not in dreams, but the levels of stories happening in this one book. we’re following three timelines consecutively in this story and those three timelines have A LOT of characters. this, paired with the fact that I listened via audio, made for a VERY confusing reading experience (I recommend having the physical copy with you, for sure). paired with it being confusing it, overall, wasn’t my favorite. I am not a fan of switching timelines, POVs, etc in books and this one did it throughout the whole thing. it makes for interesting reveals and call backs but, again, a confusing and convoluted reading experience. this book is also LONG. long and SLOWWWW. it is extremely slow going and really doesn’t climax all that much. it’s a consistent, creepy, and ominous tone throughout the book but it’s certainly not very action packed. but I feel like that’s traditional with the sub-genre so if you’re alright with other dark academia, this is similar. overall though, I do think this could have been 50-100 pages shorter. now the positives. this is, and I say this with confidence, the GAYEST SHIT I HAVE EVER READ!!!!!! I don’t think there was a single straight person in this book, certainly not a straight woman, and it was the best thing ever. there was so much angst and yearning in this I loved every minute of it. AND THERES ON PAGE POLYAMORY BETWEEN THREE OF OUR FEMALE MAIN CHARACTERS!! YOU HEARD ME!!! SAPPHIC POLYAMORY!!! I also loved the overall vibes of this. the setting, the writing, the drama of it all... stunning. again, just as dark academia should be. overall, I think the story itself is pretty messy. the plot is, again, quite convoluted. but the characters and the aesthetics of it all make this book so easy to drown in and it drags you deeper and deeper in.
4206949563	A meta, Sapphic gothic horror for the modern age.CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[ homophobia, attempted rape, horrific deaths, lots and lots of wasps stinging people (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The meta element. This is a book about a book popular at a school, and the movie being made about that book and that school, and the book being written about that movie about that book about that book at that school. Yes, really. Delicious ouroboros of self-reference.-Reminder that queer has always been here. This is written based on real life things, at least in part. Mary MacClane DID write a book she entitled I Await the Devil's Coming, and all her sexy gay thoughts in 1902. There WAS a world fair and seances and of course, gay people bein' gay. It's always like...affirming, somehow, to be reminded that we have real, concrete reasons to know that none of the modern gender and sexual identities just popped up suddenly in the past 30 years.-The atmosphere. I was absolutely gripped by the trippy things that kept happening in totally normal spaces, and the absolutely horrific things that were happening variously throughout the timelines.-Cheeky. I didn't realized that what I needed from a gothic novel was to have it be full of sass. It was so fun.Things that let me down:-Narrator. It's Xe Sands. Not the worst I've ever heard, but I have listened to a few books narrated by Xe and I find them inauthentic in their voices.-The horror elements. They felt...haphazard. There's a lot to work with here, but I didn't understand why or what drove them. Sure, eventually we learn a piece of it, but it's like Step 1: *the thing that happened, Step 2 ???? Step 3: HAUNTED-The ending. Sort of interestingly, this felt a bit more like the set up for magic trick than a book. We see the set up, we know something is coming, we expect, despite our skepticism to see something our brains can't track, and then it happens, and we're still surprised! Here, where the "thing" is supposed to happen, we turn back into regular storytelling and pick up at the denouement. So right when you're expecting to go WOW, they flash you the mirror, turn up the house lights and say tell you it's time to go home.-The...message? Point? Theme? I can almost hear Marit asking why everything needs to have a point, and, okay, fair. I guess sometimes things just are, and that's cool. But this wasn't sold as a slice of life or bildungsroman. The sweep of the story is "something happened and will happen again." But linking what happened to the end, the only "bow" I could tie around the story was that...we've always killed our gays, and that tragedy feeds itself? Maybe?I'd be most curious to hear what others got out of it, because I'm not sure what I read, even though I liked it for like 75% quite a bit.
3643805657	this book… where to start?this book left me very confused. impressed, in so many ways, but confused. (note: i loved it)i think a lot of that is my own fault; i had been anticipating some kind of grand reveal, mystery book-esque, and so i was surprised when that didn’t happen. basically, at the end of the book, it felt like i was just as much in the dark as i was at the start. in actuality, that isn’t true at all. plain bad heroines, and brookhants, its primary(?) setting, is filled to the brim little mysteries that the reader doesn’t know the answers to, but its kinda weird because you’re fully aware of that. the entire book pretty much has you on the edge of your seat, waiting for those discoveries to be made, which is why they don’t feel as surprising when they do come. it’s kind of implied. so i suppose i didn’t feel like enough of the mysteries were solved because the whole time i was waiting for some big, final, climax moment to happen (which i totally fabricated in my head because at no point was this moment guaranteed by any means, this is more horror than mystery) and then when it didn’t, i was left with more questions than answers.tldr: a whole lot of spooky stuff… but no explanation for it. (the contemporary storyline in particular.) or at least not one that was in-depth enough for someone like me who has a million questions about everything. that isn’t to say this book was bad at all. in fact, i rather loved it. and maybe that kind of unsettling feeling was the whole point; the story is unsettling. not scary (imo), but… creepy. disturbing, at times. i just wish that more happened on page, rather than the kind of after the fact storytelling vibe that we got. that being said, there were some great little tidbit connections to be made in this book, and i loved those. little moments here and there that you thought meant nothing but actually meant quite a bit. hard to remember? yes. a lot of the time i had to question if i was remembering things right. (the characters too. there were a lotttt of names to keep track of)okay i need to stop writing now. i suppose i will finish this off with the comment that this was full of sapphic characters aka so so queer. slay (in the same vein: i’m so sure this book fails the reverse bechdel test HAHA)
3776544744	3.5 StarsI don’t really know where to begin with this review. Horror is not my genre at all but I’m trying to branch out a little this year, and mark horror off of my reading challenge!I liked this book, at times I liked it a lot. It isn’t scary but it is weird and creepy and kind of gross at times. I’m also sure I’ll never look at yellow jackets the same ever again. Plain Bad Heroines has two separate storylines, one based on characters in 1902 and one set in present day. The blurb mentions the school, The Brookhants School for Girls, but very little actually happens at the school, to me it’s more about the residents of said school. There seems to be a curse on the school or the inhabitants at the school and students/teachers end up dying in troubling ways. The present-day storyline is about Merritt, Harper, and Audrey. They are involved in a movie based on a book about the cursed school. I don’t know what to say about it that won’t spoil it so I won’t say much. What I loved most about Plain Bad Heroines were the characters. I loved the queerness of almost all of the characters, all of the main, and most of the secondary. I really loved the characters and at times I hated them and I then loved to hate them. They’re not always likable and sometimes act in shitty ways. But I felt it was realistic and was true for their character. Something else interesting, it’s told from an omniscient narrator point of view, which I’m not sure I’ve ever experience. Especially when the narrator speaks to the reader specifically. It also has footnotes that I found to be interesting and sometime funny. What I didn’t enjoy was the ending for the present-day timeline. I was confused when it was over because there was more to tell. I didn’t like the abruptness of the ending and all of my questions going unanswered. I didn’t have that issue with the 1902 storyline at least. I don’t think this is for everyone, I wouldn’t recommend it to everyone. It’s long, at over 600 pages. Danforth is so very wordy and descriptive. A lot of the time I loved and appreciated it, but sometimes it seems to make the story drag on and on. But it is fun. It’s funny. It’s very creepy. I think if you like creepy horror then you’ll probably really like this.
3775509082	This is a weird book and as a rule I like weird books. It’s not a perfect weird book, so maybe it’s somewhere between 4 and 5 stars, but the distinction is ultimately meaningless. A caveat: don’t read the ebook copy because the footnotes get cut off! Once I nearly missed a much longer footnote (there was no indication that it expanded but I happened to click something) and another time I missed a massively important one that left me very confused later on. So yeah, paper copy. The gothic portion of the book is its star more so than its modern Hollywood satire, and it’s not very clear how the stories fit together. The present day denouement is not very denouement-y. As with almost all thrillers, I’m not 100% satisfied with the answers I got. It’s a very long book. These are the negatives. The positives? It’s fun, it’s queer as hell, the footnote interruptions are whimsical, and the general vibe is that it’s a dark tumblr joke where anyone who doesn’t find it amusing is probably just basic and heteronormative and not as bi as you. Ultimately I say read it, if only because there is literally SO MUCH HERE that it’s a safe guarantee there’s a something you’ll love.
4109473012	A Story within another story, and another story.Ever read that one book where you finished the whole book but when you see it as a whole, nothing makes sense at all? as in nothing articulates at all.The stories and narrators (two) did quite a decent job individually in this book, but as a whole this is the book which I immediately forget about the moment I finished it.I did not understand the book or the plot as a whole, but kind off liked few aspects in between here and there.
3676777086	This book is just... It’s EVERYTHING I have EVER wanted from a book. I had a feeling I’d enjoy it but I had no idea that I’d love it so much that it would become a contender for my favourite book not only of the year but one of my favourite books EVER! It might be classified as a slow burn in true gothic horror fashion but it was absolutely riveting and I never felt like I wanted the pace to pick up, a slow burn was perfect for this story. I was hooked from start to finish and I couldn’t put the book down, I had a deep burning desire to find out how it would turn out. I really couldn’t have loved this book more, it had everything I love in a horror novel and heaps more: It had the most deliciously sinister vibes, a haunting creepy setting, a book within a book and the BEST MOST QUEER cast of characters EVER. I need more queer horror in my life because this book is seriously everything and these characters are everything and the book would be nothing without it’s absolute queerness and I can feel the gushing starting and my sentences running together but that’s just the state this book has left me in! I want to scream it from the rooftops and buy a million copies of it and shove it into everyone’s hands and demand more queer horror like this because it is a life changing read that everybody needs to experience. I could ramble on and on but just shut up, buy the book and come talk to me about it after you’ve devoured it.
3667072028	4.5/5Haunting, atmospheric, quirky and self aware, this novel is a must-read! PLAIN BAD HEROINES is like the long lost lovechild of the Brontes, Daphne Du Maurier and Taylor Jenkins Reid. Danforth's storytelling is cheeky and charming, making it easy for the reader to be immersed in the world of the story in no time whatsoever. Her characters come alive right off the page, their peculiar traits and flaws being what makes them so endearing to the reader. The setting comes alive right off the page, attractive not in spite of its ghosts and specters and its complicated past and lore, but because of them. This is the kind of story that captures your soul while reading, then begs to be reread countless times after. I feel like you could easily reread this numerous times and still find new things to notice about it. Also must add that what I'd highly highly HIGHLY recommend giving this a go on audio if possible, as it has one of the most gorgeous, perfect narrations I have ever heard.
3522475668	3.5*A huge thank you to HarperCollins US for sending me an ARC copy in exchange for an honest review.Emily M. Danforth’s PLAIN BAD HEROINES is a dark, eerie horror-comedy surrounding a cursed New-England boarding school for girls - a wickedly whimsical celebration of the art of storytelling, sapphic love, and the rebellious female spirit.This book is a BEAST. It’s 600+ pages of chaotic gays, hilarious footnotes and a whole load of wasps. Danforth has a knack for making this book feel so real, the setting and descriptive writing in this book make it feel so luxuriously dark and spooky, I couldn’t put it down. This book follows a dual-timeline between 1902 and the present day, where we separately follow a group of women at Brookhants boarding school. In 1902, we follow Clara and Flo, two girls who become enthralled with a daring young writer named Mary MacLane and form a fan club called the Plain Bad Heroines Society. They hold secret meetings at an orchard, and get other girls at the school to join too. Clara and Flo end up falling in love and later their bodies are found under that same orchard with Mary MacLane’s book splayed out next to them. I thoroughly enjoyed these early chapters where we got an insight into the very early beginnings of the Brookhants curse, where we meet Flo and Clara and learn about them and their love.We then switch between this time period and the present day, where a film is being made out of Merritt Emmons’ book about Brookhants. We follow Merritt, Audrey and Harper, whose lives get entangled with this film and each other. Harper Harper, where do I start?? I ADORE her, she’s totally brash, open and her personality is just so funny. Harper really is the definition of a disaster lesbian, and I loved getting to know her in this book. Audrey is cast to play Clara, and Harper Flo, so they, along with Merritt, end up spending a lot of time together during the process of pre-filming and the actual filming of the movie. These three together were so adorable to read about; Merritt is very upfront and honest in the way she thinks, and I think her personality bounced off of Harper’s really well. During the filming of the movie, strange things keep happening to everyone involved – yellow jackets (wasps) turning up in sinks, bathtubs, jackets, they’re literally everywhere. The way Danforth describes the buzzing noise of the yellow jackets really drives home how creepy it is, in fact, I highly recommend not reading this book outside where something may buzz around you, because you will FREAK. The dark and spooky atmosphere is definitely present throughout the whole book, which is really nice because it helps you to fully submerge yourself into it. Libbie and Alex are the characters we read about after the death of Clara and Flo; Libbie is the headmistress at Brookhants and Alex is her partner. These two really made me giggle at points, their relationship is a bit rocky but their humour with each other is on point. I must admit, as the book went on, I didn’t really feel the chemistry between them that much, but definitely when we flashed back to them as younger adults, their relationship was very sweet. The footnotes in this book were quite possibly one of my favourite parts, they’re incredibly humorous and I found myself laughing out loud multiple times while reading, I think they’re a very unique and at times very crucial addition to this book. They’re not too long either which is great because they can be annoying to some people, but throughout this book they were not normally longer that 2 or 3 lines. I also loved the addition of the illustrations throughout this book, they were peppered in every couple pages and it really helped to have a visualisation of what was going on and also, they are just incredibly pretty.Yet another thing I enjoyed about this book was how queer it was. There was maybe 3 straight characters throughout this whole book, and it’s super affirming to the whole “we were always here” and this book just belongs as a piece of queer history. I can’t wait for more people to read this and discover the story because it’s a masterpiece.The ending of this book brought along quite a few surprises!! I was thrilled about the relationship, which I won’t comment on more to avoid spoilers, but just know that I was rooting for it and I’m SO HAPPY!! One thing I do wish this book had was more of Flo and Clara and their story. After the first couple chapters, we don’t really read about them at all except for when it’s mentioned during the process of making the film. I think that having more Flo and Clara would have definitely made the book more engaging during the middle where I found it started to drag on a little.Overall, this book is a perfect read for October and anyone who loves sapphics being sapphics. The illustrations paired with the writing really gives it a spooky feel and I think this would be a great addition to anyone’s October tbr!!
4003050170	For anyone with a phobia of wasps, this would probably have been a lot creepier. I quite like wasps. They're annoying when you're trying to eat al fresco, but I always thought it wouldn't be bad to be reincarnated as a wasp - they can fly, they hang out in flowers all day sipping nectar and if anyone tries to squish them, they have inbuilt butt-weapons to dispatch their foes.They may not be as fluffy and adorable as their bumblebee brethren, but wasps are pretty cool.I was really excited about this book. I was expecting a gothic romp with lots of female-female romance, some historical drama, fun, frolics and spooky scares.The story is about a film being made at the reportedly cursed school for girls, Brookhants and the narrative switches between the modern day, movie-making heroines and the life of headteacher Libbie in the early 1900s. It's a complex tangle of story threads that don't come together into a neat skein, but rather end up in a cat-mauled heap for the reader to unravel.A lot of it felt like fun, but the story never really got going. It always felt like it was about to get good and it never really took off. The whole book was structured in a disorganised way with wonky pacing.My biggest problem with this book is that nothing is clear. The characters motivations, emotions and personalities aren't clear. There was no sexual tension, yearning or romance. I'm not sure if there was supposed to be? At no point could I tell you what the characters were experiencing. Who fancied who? Who was creeped out? What their worries, hopes and obstacles were. It neither shown nor told! We simply don't get into anyone's head in a way that would bring them to life.The ending was especially disappointing. A lot of the wrap up made little-to-no sense. The reveals made me think "huh?" I consulted Ms. Google to see if I'd missed anything key. Nope, everyone else is confused too, or reading their own interpretations into it. I'm sure a lot of people will enjoy this book. It had a refreshing, frolicsome feel to it. Sadly, for me it fell flat.*I'm still inclined to give this book 3 stars for enjoyability. It had its moments even if it did frustrate me and leave me unsatisfied. I just wish there had been some deeper feeling between the characters, a greater insight into their inner workings. With such a gothic set up, this should have been right up my alley, but it meandered on and left me thinking "what was the point of all that?"*Also, everyone hates footnotes
4985724848	Okay, I fully understand why a lot of people didn't like this and rated it 1 star. I can see their points and definitely agree with them.But idk, it all just worked for me.Things I loved:↠ The meta-ness of it all had me hooked from the very beginning. Not only is this gothic horror, it's simultaneously a satire of conventional gothic horror tropes.↠ It's also somehow a frank, unflattering look at the way human beings have desired to present themselves in a flattering way to the outside world since time immemorial. This may have become more prevalent with the advent of social media, but it's hardly a new development.↠ I went into this book expecting a veritable explosion of white queer women celebrating their whiteness in conjunction with queerness but being ignorant of them doing so, the way sapphic books written by white authors often are. So I was pleasantly surprised to see that while this has got to be one the most white queer books I've ever read, it also doesn't take itself seriously as such and pokes a lot of fun at the whole thing. I feel like this book would take a look at the white women saying "we are the granddaughters of the witches you couldn't burn" and vociferously mock them. Idk how to explain it but this book felt like one of those few white queer women that queer POC can trust.↠ This book didn't have a lot of scary parts, per se, but Emily M. Danforth is really good at drumming up tension and atmosphere. I wasn't outright terrified, but I did feel that delicious crawly sensation of being right on the cusp of freaked out and still rationalizing that nothing scary is really happening yet.↠ I normally don't like fiction books where the narrator breaks the fourth wall, but the narrator of this one was just so bitingly witty and sarcastic that I honestly ended up enjoying this particular narrative device for the first time ever.All in all, I was very entertained. Can I see why people rated it low and DNF-ed it? Absolutely. But were those the reasons that made me enjoy Plain Bad Heroines? Yes, yes, and yes.
3733366204	“That’s history for you, my darlings. When you dig it up, it always carries a whiff of rot.” This is a very different book from what I thought it was going to be, and I'm sure many other people will say that too. There are aspects of historical fiction, horror, and romance, all told with a very particular, casual, almost comedic style. It's a kind of strange line to walk, pretty easy to fall off, if you ask me. And I don't think the execution of this will work well for everyone? But it really did for me.Which is impressive for me, because while I don't dislike stories about fame, celebrities and movie-making, it's not something I seek out, and they can often contain tropes that don't work for me. But I enjoyed this, and I do think that is partially owed to the meta in the storytelling, the omniscient narrator who gives us the tale with hindsight. The melding of genres was well done; we move from past to present at a pace that suited me well, doled out the plot and action in both timelines in just the right way. I always like historical fiction that's super queer, so that was a plus. As for the horror, it may or may not work for you, depending on what you like to get out of your horror. Do you want to be legitimately frightened, on the look out for jump-scares, heart-racing every time you think of what might will come next? That probably won't happen. But if you're looking for an experience that's more creepy than terrifying, the kind of horror that makes you uneasy and unsettled and sometimes grossed out? You might like this. That's the kind of horror I like, and parts of this really appealed to me!And the romance, gah. Romance isn't the main thrust of this book by a long shot, but the bits of it we did get were so so good, and worked for me so perfectly. This is something else entirely: it’s a coming together. It’s being able to arrange and rearrange themselves however they choose to allow someone to always be in the middle, flanked on either side. Not all of our heroines are written with a mind for them being likeable, and I certainly had trouble liking one of them in the beginning. But we get to know them well enough and deeply enough that I ended up loving all of them (the trio in the present more so than the couple in the past). None of these women are flat in any way; they're all super nuanced and complicated and so well-written. I loved every interaction in this book, even the ones that were kinda painful to read. All of the dialogue was so good; really believable. I actually felt like lasting connections were being formed through them.There's a little mystery (? sorta) to be had at the centre of this, and I liked it. No huge revelations, but some gentle twists that got me. I don't think I've completely wrapped my head around everything yet? I mean, I think we're supposed to be a little confused in the end, but idk. I think I need to go over certain passages again. If I have one nitpick, it's that. I almost wish the book that leaned hard in one direction, either to be more of a romance, or more of a horror, and I think then the writing and the plot would have shone a lot more.Listened to the audiobook as read by Xe Sands, which made an already good book marvellous. She makes Harper the perfect amount of charming, Merritt the perfect amount of prickly, Andrey the perfect balance. I'm already setting this down as a book I want to re-listen/read at some point, to get more out of the plot, and also just to revisit these heroines. Also, I didn't realise until just now that Mary MacLane was a real person, and that knowledge makes this book even better to me? I definitely need to read her book. This was super enjoyable all in all, especially for the characters and the writing style, and I hope Danforth has more like it in her future. Anyway, I wish some one would write a book about a plain, bad heroine so that I might feel in real sympathy with her.
3429406269	Star review in the October 2020 issue of Library JournalThree Words That Describe This book: immersive, character centered, intricately plotted Draft Review:To say that The Brookhaunts School for Girls has a cursed history would be an understatement of outrageous proportions, but watching that history unfold in Danforth’s immersive novel is a creepy pleasure from start to finish. Framed by its fictional place and by the very real 1902 memoir of Mary MacLean, a controversial bestseller that laid bare her bisexulaity, the novel crafts a tale that follows three linked storylines: the 1902 death of two young lovers at the school, the making of a horror movie about said students in the present, and the backstory of the women who founded the school. While intricately plotted in theory, in practice it is an effortlessly compelling read, anchored by the engaging, unnamed narrator, who speaks directly and conspiratorially to the reader. And the characters! You cannot forget these strong, complex, and fascinating women who steer the story, even when all signs are pointing them toward fear and dread. At its heart, this is a novel that asks its reader to contemplate how all stories are told. Which horrors are real, which are imagined, and which are consciously constructed? Oh and fair warning, you may never be able to be in the vicinity of a wasp again.Verdict: With a pointed female focus, an unease constantly seeping in from the perimeter, spilling fear all over the page at key moments, and characters that leap off the page, this volume will be sure to inspire many fans. Comparisons to THE NIGHT FILM by Pessl or THE LITTLE STRANGER by Waters are spot on, but this will also appeal to fans dark speculative tales as wide ranging as INTO THE DROWNING DEEP by Grant and GIDEON THE NINTH by Tamsyn Muir.
3457450967	Edit (1.5.21):Revising to 5 out of 5 stars! 4.5 out of 5 stars, though I may revisit that. Plain Bad Heroines was a haunting, humorous, and extremely sapphic blend of historical & contemporary storylines that I absolutely adored. I was intimidated by the length at first, but this book was compulsively readable, and hard to put down! I'm not usually a gothic horror reader, so I wasn't sure how I would feel about Plain Bad Heroines, but the promise of explicitly stated, on page lesbian rep lured me in, and I'm so glad it did! I know this is a book review, but I gotta say: Can y'all imagine how amazing Plain Bad Heroines would be as a movie? Come on, Hollywood, make it happen!ARC Note: This one is a little complicated, because I received an e-ARC from Netgalley, then won a physical ARC in a Goodreads giveaway, and then received an ALC from Libro.FM. So thank you to Netgalley, Goodreads, Libro.fm and William Morrow! All opinions are my own.Love sapphic books, too? Let's be friends! Bookstagram | Booktube | Book Blog | Twitter
3769085598	Plain Bad Heroines has a very different feel to it, I'm not sure I can describe the writing well but it has a rhythm and rhyme to it that is hypnotic and immersive, a novel you feel as much as you read. The gothic tone and old school styling is really excellent, the tale itself utterly compelling, creepy on occasion and absolutely dripping with atmosphere. Strange goings on at a school lead to a future movie being made - the author creates a group dynamic of layered and unique characters, weaves in an imaginative mythology set around a novel that affects its readers in strange ways then offers a gripping narrative that you find hard to put down.The ending may divide opinion on whether it offers enough closure but for me it was perfect and the illustrations popping up throughout really added to the overall ambiance of this excellent read.Recommended.
5037696132	— 4 STARS —Ok, this was my jam.Admittedly, it’s a mess, a lot of it is underdeveloped, and the “dear reader” writing style could annoy some people. I’m sort of confused as to why I loved this; it seems like the kind of book I’d find rambly and pointless? But regardless, I really enjoyed it. I vibed with the humor and the occasional horrifying moment. It was mostly a comedy / meta piece, but a few parts I found truly terrifying. It’s a fantastic October read; just the amount of spooky vibes I was looking for, without being too unpleasant. I loved how many sapphics were in this! And it didn’t feel shallow either! A lot of the ideas could have been explored more, or tied up better, and it really was too long —but I’m really glad I read this. It is quite unique and aligned with my interests in particular. Highly recommend!
3721943464	That was a long one! Overall I liked this audiobook. I liked the narrator. She had a great voice for this. It did seem sometimes like maybe it was a bit too long but it had enough creepiness to keep me listening. I wasn’t sure how the lesbian angle was going to be handled. I hate when I feel like a book is trying to force some agenda instead of just being a great novel. Thankfully, my worry was unjustified and I liked the characters, their relationships, and the story that was told. And just to make sure you understand my point, I’m not a big romance reader regardless of the sexes of the people involved. So I was hoping that wasn’t the point of the story....and it wasn’t. The back and forth between time periods was also a great way to keep the plot moving along. A good first book for 2021. And given the rest of the way 2021 started, all I can say is ‘it’s a damn good thing!’
4414568812	This book is very long and very gay lmaoit’s sort of hard to describe the plot/synopsis but basically three young sapphic women are involved in the production of a movie about a real life haunted girls school. The book follows the three women as they make this movie but it also tells the story of the history of the school and the women who died and how (it is all extremely sapphic)I don’t really know what I was expecting with this book but I definerly enjoyed it. It is sooooooooo gay and like the sapphic love in it is 10/10 like prob one of my fav sapphic books of all time. It’s also definitely creepy and ominous and meta, and a good time to read so I would def recommend!
4082562746	2.5 🌟My god thank god it’s over!!!!! I couldn’t stand this book!! It was so slow, so boring, so pretentious for no reason. The margins were so unnecessary, and half of this book could’ve been scrapped. The only good part was the almost-lesbian threesome in the orchard. How did this author somehow make lesbian gothic romance fucking boring as hell? This book put me into a slump!! Ugh 😑
3631528362	I tried. I failed. This is 100% because of the narrator. Trying to read this book is like trying to follow a story told by some rando with ADHD. It's like: this is a story about ... oh! look at that shiny thing. that reminds me of this other thing! oh, and we need to talk about this other other thing. Oh, the story is about girls who ... wait, what's that over there?Then add to that the fact that the narrator is like someone talking to you, who knows the entire story before hand, and is purposefully hiding bits of information and giggling while doing so. In the way kids do that's kind of cute, but it's an adult voice here so it's really obnoxious. I mean, like "she" even tells us she hates one of the characters? Like, alrighty narrator....AND THERE'S FOOTNOTES! In a fiction book! WHY! This isn't cute! They don't add to the book. House Of Leaves is the only fiction book that was able to pull that off and that was only because those footnotes were an actual story in themselves (the second layer of the story.) It's just like... bleh.The book is really, really, REALLLLLLLLLLLLY slow. The narrator is obnoxious. There's fucking footnotes. I just can't. This should've been marked as literary fiction. It's not gothic or horror.
3725094216	There was no need for all this pain
3050837092	3.5/5 StarsWay back in 2018, when I had just arrived in the sunny Loire region of France for the first semester of my Erasmus exchange, I picked up the ebook of Emily M. Danforth’s first novel, The Miseducation of Cameron Post, and promptly fell in love with the witty writing and gritty characters. Three years on from that, Plain Bad Heroines is one of my most anticipated releases of the year, not only for its intriguing synopsis and glowing reviews, but also because I’ve been dying to read more of Emily M. Danforth’s gorgeous writing! I was so lucky to be approved for an audiobook ARC and had to physically restrain myself from picking it up months before the actual release. It was much to my disappointment, then, that I ended up finishing such a promising book with a solid sense of confusion and misunderstanding.Plain Bad Heroines is a dual timeline behemoth of a book. The book opens in 1902 at Brookhants School for Girls where two girls in love, Flo and Clara, are tragically killed in a yellow jacket attack, throwing the school into the brink of closure. More than a hundred years later, we follow up and coming actress, Audrey, and well-loved celesbian, Harper Harper, working together on a new film – an adaptation of a book surrounding Flo and Clara and the rumoured Brookhants curse, written by Merritt who grew up there. The Goodreads synopsis of this book suggests that Plain Bad Heroines was to be some sort of a gothic-horror-esque novel following Flo and Clara leading up to their demise, alongside the film plot, but that was definitely not the case. I was extremely excited for sapphics in an early 20th-century boarding school setting and was sorely disappointed to find out that that was not the case here. Despite this, I could put that misunderstanding behind me, and I did enjoy the story of the school in 1902 that we did actually get.Although my expectations were not met plotwise, my expectations for Emily M. Danforth’s writing were well and truly exceeded! This book was so unbelievably atmospheric and Danforth’s writing felt so lush and beautiful. Sometimes when listening to audiobooks I don’t feel fully connected to the story as I would when reading a physical or ebook copy, but that certainly was not the case here, and I think the wonderful narrator also had a part to play in that. The type of horror in this book is not the jumpscare, constantly on edge kind that you can find in books such as Into the Drowning Deep, but instead is something sticky and heavy that lingers on your clothes and in your hair even when you think you’re finally free of it. Much like what the characters come across in the book it’s like a constant crooning of a swarm of wasps that are just out of sight, and the thick, cloying smell of rotting apples everywhere you turn, and it was truly a delight to read.The characters were another aspect of the book I really enjoyed. Our three present day main characters, Harper, Audrey and Merritt, were all so different, and at times jarring, and they worked so well. Harper Harper (yes, that is her name) is a well loved celesbian, think Kristen Stewart type character, who is so enthusiastic about everything and is all about living in the moment. Audrey is an up-and-coming child actress who has finally got her big break, but still feels overshadowed by her mother’s own fame. And Merritt, the author of the book that the film is being based on, is a standoffish, brusque character who you can count on to speak her mind. Their dynamics throughout the book were constantly evolving and I really enjoyed where they ended up at the end of the book. Our 1902 perspectives, the headmistress of the school, Libbie, and her companion, Alex, were just as enjoyable, if not more so. Their relationship was fraught and yet so full of love, and I really felt that both of them deserved better than they got! Adding onto this, there is an omniscient narrator telling the whole story. I know in the finished copy there are footnotes, though I’m not sure they were included in the audiobook, but from what I’ve heard they’re rather amusing and I can’t wait to read the physical copy to get the full experience! Moreover, almost all the characters of any importance in this book are queer – you could probably count all the cishet characters in this book on one hand, and I loved that about the book!The plot is extremely intriguing. Because it’s such a large book, I don’t want to say too much for fear of spoiling something, but I enjoyed trying to figure out the curse alongside the rest of the characters. That being said, after finishing the book, when everything was meant to have been revealed, I found myself so confused as to what had actually happened. I don’t know if this was because I listened to the audiobook or not, but I still could not explain to you what the curse actually was, and if there was anything magical or paranormal about it at all (if anyone can explain it to me, I’d be very much indebted to them). I also felt that the plot regarding Audrey, Merritt and Harper was building up and building up into some kind of explosive conclusion but it just trickled into nothing – it ended so abruptly and nothing felt resolved.Despite that, I did enjoy the book, and perhaps after a re-read where I can fully digest everything that is happening, alongside all of the footnotes and illustrations, my rating might end up being much higher. I do still really recommend this book, it’s a fantastic horror debut that I think would be the perfect read for the height of Summer if you want the atmosphere to feel all that more realistic!Read for the Sapphic Stories Bookclub!Thanks to Netgalley and Harper Collins for an Audiobook ARC copy in return for an honest review!
4271038416	Sin duda no ha sido un libro para mí. Me imaginaba una historia totalmente distinta. El libro está narrado a dos tiempos, el pasado inspirado en un ambiente gótico, en el que suceden cosas paranormales y mueren algunas personas, todo parece estar relacionado con un libro rojo. No le he encontrado el sentido a la parte actual, representa que quieren grabar una película de los hechos que ocurrieron en el pasado y que se escribieron posteriormente en un libro. Digo esto porqué en el presente también suceden cosas paranormales pero no se terminan de entender muy bien, además la parte del presente se centra mucho en las actrices, su vida y los chismes de Hollywood, cosa que no tiene relación ni con la película, ni con el pasado. Aún así el final, debo reconocer que la parte del pasado me es la que más me ha gustado aunque me ha costado entender algunas partes... Para mí, es decir, en mi opinión, la parte del presente sobra totalmente, ya que no aporta nada nuevo a la historia del pasado y tampoco le da emoción o intensidad a esos hechos paranormales.Como ya os digo, no era una historia para mí.
3661586588	womp womp I feel like I’m missing something?? This book dragged so much and I was bored through the entire second half. EVERYONE CLAP I FINISHED A BOOK THAT WAS MARKETED AS A HORROR XDI did enjoy how gloriously queer this book was, especially with all the sapphic relationships. I also like the first half and actually felt a bit scared (I know I know I’m a wimp this book probably shouldn’t be classified as horror but it did scare me sometimes) The atmosphere was quite creepy and if you really enjoy slow moving creepy boarding school type books then this one might be for you! however... it got to the point I was just confused... the ending especially was odd and I just feel like I missed something xD I can deal with a good slow burn book but this one felt a tad like trudging through mud in that second half Not a total waste of time! I did enjoy some parts but overall I don’t think this book was meant for meeee (‘:
4329860882	Sinceramente no tenía expectativas en esta novela, ni buenas ni malas. Me ha gustado la historia protagonizada por mujeres queer y mezclando una especie de terror gótico, mucho suspense y sucesos paranormales. No obstante, el género no he conseguido categorizarlo. En definitiva, no está mal pero no es impresionante. Eso sí, la forma de dirigirse al lector de la autora me ha encantado. PD: no me ha quedado claro quién narraba la historia :(..I honestly had no expectations in this novel, neither good nor bad. I liked the story starring queer women and mixing a kind of gothic horror, a lot of suspense and paranormal events. However, the genre I have not managed to categorize.In short, not bad but not impressive. Of course, the author's way of addressing the reader has enchanted me.PS: it has not been clear to me who was narrating the story :(.
3661665430	3.5Maybe my expectations were a bit high for this and in so doing just couldn't live up to them, I don't know. The writing was wonderful and I genuinely liked the story. It kept me invested and wanting to finish and see the story through. It's the characters. I didn't like a single one. Not one. I have no feelings about any of them and that's disappointing. Maybe that's where this book fell a bit flat for me. Also this is marked as Gothic and I am sorry, but this did not feel Gothic in any way. Creepy at times, yes, but Gothic, no. I am glad I read this book I just really wanted to love it and I don't.
4073533898	Usually I am not a fan of dual timeline stories but this one worked for me and I found both timelines equally interesting (again , normally I will always prefer the historical fiction view point). Somehow the sum of the parts however added up to more than the ending which felt like an anti climax. I loved Danforth’s narrator style and found it engaging. I loved the creepy, gothic setting and thought it worked well in both timelines. The characters were well drawn. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
