2112959855	October 2020re-reading vlog: https://youtu.be/8DdrZLdzqGAApril 2019This synopsis had been taunting me for months. It's honestly just so well written I can barely stand it. For some reason I was hella nervous to actually get into this book. This was my first Seanan McGuire outside of (one of my favourite series of all time) The Wayward Children books, and I figured there's no way I could TRULY love an adult fantasy novel about science....and gods....right?But slap my ass and call me Judy, if this isn't one of my new favourite books of all time. I have an inkling this isn't going to be for everyone, I must admit. It was my perfect brand of weird, and her writing is so addictive, and also..accessible? But this isn't a genre (actually...what even subgenre does this fall into) I ever read...so those well versed in this alchemical, mythological, SFF shit- could find something lacking for all I know. But to me it was flawless.Roger and Dodger are precious cinnamon buns who must be protected at all costs. How Seanan McGuire manages to keep things fast paced, fun, and totally otherworldly...but then throws in some Real Life Shit, is inspired. There were scenes right from the jump that almost had me in tears.Also the opening scene is "Five minutes too late, thirty seconds from the end of the world." And I mean, with a start like that, what could go wrong? Please go pre-order this so she writes a sequel.
3596897874	yup dis vvv good
2698476919	“They grew up sort of weird and sort of wonderful and they found each other and lost each other over and over again. But this time, when they found each other, they came as close as they could to the Impossible City. They walked the length of the improbable road, and the girl wrote down everything she knew about the universe, and the boy read it all aloud, and everything was okay.” Going into Middlegame, I don't think I actually considered that I might not like it. It didn't seem possible. I have given five stars to all the four books I've read in McGuire's Wayward Children series, and I just assumed this would be an obvious five-star, love-you-forever kind of read. I actually feel bad saying this, but this was not my kind of book at all. There was a lot of stopping and starting in my attempts to read this book (which have been going on for weeks). I guess I just don’t enjoy being this confused for so long and receiving so little explanation for anything. The Wayward Children series is exactly my brand of atmospheric fairy tale weirdness, but this was a completely different kind of weird. A dense sci-fi novel that was at least 200 pages too long for me.I found it frustrating and confusing-- one of those books where I was kept in the dark for so long that my attention was waning. Trying to stay invested when I had no idea where it was going or what questions I needed to be asking was hard work. And so much feels unanswered. While I’m sure this is wholly intentional, it didn’t quite work for me. I was left with the unsatisfying feeling that I never fully "got" it.There's a lot of repetition, too. Roger and Dodger are "experiment" twins - he a word genius, she a math genius - separated after birth and placed with adoptive parents. They discover each other through a psychic link, lose each other, find each other again. Little is happening during these psychic encounters. Alongside this, we get the perspective of James Reed, an alchemist who wishes to use Roger and Dodger to get to the Impossible City. Unfortunately, I felt zero emotional connection to these characters.Though this is supposed to be a math and logic based sci-fi, it is strange how very little is explained. The lack of details made it hard to picture and suspend disbelief for. I struggled to understand the motivations of Reed or how he really planned to accomplish his ambitions. The "Impossible City" is just a cool-sounding name being thrown around without explanation.Probably my favourite parts were the nods to The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, which I thought were clever. But, overall, this book was for a reader very different from myself. I know McGuire also writes under her Mira Grant pseudonym, but I'm starting to think she might actually be several different people in one, because all her books are so different. I mean it as a compliment. Middlegame wasn't my cup of tea, but it's pretty impressive to have so many different tricks up one's sleeve.CW: Attempted suicide.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
2534588281	I admire the ambition and creativity with this story, but unfortunately I couldn't find myself attached to any of the characters and the stakes, and often found the writing to be convoluted and scattered.
3082620011	I hate being proven wrong.They say practice makes perfect, and it rarely happens to me, so I don't have the experience to be good at it. On the once-every-several-years occasions that it occurs, I will often try to smoothly change the subject in order to subvert having to say the second-most dreaded three words in the English language ("you were right"). That leads to situations where I go from arguing about whether Joe Exotic is still in prison to suddenly saying "have you been following that thing about the guy finding shrimp tails in his Cinnamon Toast Crunch?"I'm a conversational genius.Anyway. Unfortunately, it appears hell has frozen over, because I was wrong about one thing: my ability to like adult fantasy novels with a page count over 500.This was so fun.It took me FOREVER to get into it. I had to read it in 50-page chunks every 5 days for several weeks before I actually sat down and read the thing, but once I did I didn't put it down. This is incredibly unique in every way. The character dynamics and development are so wonderful - I felt like I grew to KNOW these characters, more than I can say whether I like or dislike them. The world is cool. Once the pacing gets ahold of itself it's a blast.Other than the first 40% of this being a crime against humanity, I only have nice things to say. And one of them includes that I, in a miraculously infrequent event, was incorrect.Bottom line: I liked it!---------------pre-reviewworth it, ultimately.review to come / i think 4 stars---------------currently-reading updatesat this point i think i'm addicted to picking this up, reading 50 pages, then putting it down for 5 days, somehow repeating this process until the end of time. round 4!---------------tbr reviewhas hell frozen over? are pigs flying? because i wanna read a 500 page fantasy and i have no idea who i am anymore
2741036415	OMG! OMG! OMG! OMG!OMG!Im not the most religious person but I think I’m about to worship the intelligence, evil genius writing skills and visionary creation capabilities of this author! I want to read everything the author writes. I want to buy us best friends forever bracelets and be the most devoted, batshit crazy fan!If you want to completely understand why i gave five stars this book! ( I’m also wearing t-shirt printed “Seanan McGuire is the best!” like a die-hard fan but don’t worry I already ordered it after I read “ Wayward Children” series! This book only reminded -emphasized-me of how much I loved the author’s works!)My last 30 hours’ dialogues (or monologues because I mostly made blubbering sounds!): First 2 hours:My bestie Ashley: Hey, are you breathing? You have been frozen at the same position for two hours! You okay?I flipped a page...Bestie: Jesus Christ! She moved! She’s alive!5 hours laterMy husband ( talking behind gritted teeth) : Hon, you burned our dinner!Me : Hmmm! My husband: It took two hours the firefighters clean the mess!Me: Hmmm....( I flipped a page)My husband: Production company called, you’re 30 pages behind your script !Me: Hmmm...( I flipped another page)My husband: And we’re out of Chardonnay!I dropped my kindle and began screaming.Me: NOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!20 hours laterOther bestie Dolly on the phone: So i’m getting a divorce! Leaving the country!Me: Hummmm... ( I flipped another page)Dolly: You started reading again, right?Me: Arrrrrggghhhh( I flipped another page)Dolly: You stopped to go to your EBRA ( Extreme Book Readers Anonymous) meetings! Oh no, stop it, you have one mouth chip! One moment without books didn’t kill you! You can do it again! You’re strong enough! Just drop the book down, nice and slow!I ended the call and flipped another page!30 hours laterHusband dearest: Hon, you didn’t eat, you forgot to sleep! Neighbors called me to complaint about the smell. I think it’s coming from you! So I have to do something about it!He poured out a bucket of ice water on me and I wiped my kindle and kept reading. I flipped another page and I started to cry because the book is ended!Summary: If you like gory, harsh, terrifying but also mind blowing, head hurting and entertaining, sci-fi stories, you’re gonna love this book as much as I did!
2698820286	The author really has a knack for creating interesting worlds or powers and characters. Siblings linked by quantum entanglement? Powers worthy of gods? Powers linked to language and maths? I was really intrigued! Having said that, I found myself not caring too much about the direction of this book. The world and goal seemed way too vague to me and I had to push myself to finish it as my interest dwindled the further I got into it. I gave the audiobook a try and some of the voices were really not pleasant to listen to. Not my favorite by her.
2723145299	"In the same ordinary town, on the same ordinary street, lived two ordinary children who had never quite managed to cross paths."MR. HUMPHREY: "So what was this book about?"ME: "Honestly, I couldn't tell you but I loved it."MR. HUMPHREY: ......ME: .......Ok, but have you ever read a book that is so intellectually deep and intricately detailed in subject matter that you aren't well versed in, that you haven't got the first clue how to explain it to someone else? Honestly, that's how I feel about most of Seanan McGuire's books, because her writing is so flawlessly executed that we aren't worthy of her stories, yet she allows us to read them anyway. Even the blurb is fairly cryptic, and I think the publisher wisely chose to keep the cards close in hand on this book for the very reason that it's best to go in open-minded and ready to be lead by the author, hand-in-hand, to The Impossible City."Medicine rests upon four pillars-philosophy, astronomy, alchemy, and ethics."^ That above quote, to me, sums up what this book is about. *Insert best SNL Stefan voice* This book has everything-twins, alchemy, quantum physics, fires, Frankenstein creatures, MORE FIRES, telepathy (of sorts), a book within a book, EVEN MORE FIRES- well, I think you get the picture. Throwing a list of buzz words at you is much easier than trying to explain precisely WHAT this book is, and the author even stated in her afterword that her four page pitch of this novel wasn't enough for her agent to get what this book was, so she just wrote the damn thing. Badass level, achieved! This book is long, friends. Please don't let it scare you, because i plowed through all *roughly* 550 pages in 3 days, and that's only because I had adulting to do in between. The beauty of McGuire's novels are that, she takes an idea that seems so far fetched it could never happen, and then magically forms it into this ALMOST realistic and very scientific sounding hypothesis that has you googling at midnight wondering if scientists have achieved this level of madness. It's safe to say that this book won't be for everybody, and will mostly appeal to those looking for a science fiction novel that is heavy on the science side, but once again Seanan McGuire, queen of all things intellectually quirky and deliciously bizarre, has blown me away. Highly recommended for those looking for a challenging read, and I mean that as the highest compliment."It doesn't matter how beautiful your theory is, it doesn't matter how smart you are. If it doesn't agree with experiment, it's wrong." -Richard Feynman*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy via NetGalley.
2534515291	This was still a good read, but I really am sad I didn't end up loving it more. Youtube | Instagram | Twitter | Blog | Spotify | TwitchTrigger and Content Warnings for very descriptive gore, many scenes with blood depiction, murder, death, drug use, seizures, cutting, attempted suicide, overdosing, natural disasters (earthquakes), and loss of loved ones.I read this for OWLs Magical Readathon 2020! ⚡Buddy read with Melissa! ❤
2780182311	------------------VIDEO REVIEW------------------4/5/19My review is up :D22/4/19Best book that I have ever read in my life. If you know me and if you've read the book you'll know why hahah. Either way, my review will be up on my channel soon! :)9/4/19Well, as I am typing this, I am looking at the arc of this book on my DESK. I AM INTERNALLY SCREAMING!!!!!You can find me onYoutube | Instagram | Twitch | Twitter | Tumblr | Website | The Storygraph
2756865891	Am I dreaming or am I awake? I don’t know anymore.It doesn’t matter. Because in either case, I’m still forever going to dream about the improbable road to the Impossible City. MY MIND IS REELING. MY MIND BROKEN .
4623322640	⭐️4Reading Vlog: https://youtu.be/8TIpw8x8V4QThis is wholly unique. It is so rare to find a story that's never been told before. Seanan McGuire always finds it though. And she tells it in such a whimsical, macabre, mesmerizing way as to totally transport you into the story. I will say that I reread this hoping to fully understand the alchemical machinations. However, a lot of this book remains out of reach and at this point I don't think it's me, I think it just wasn't fully formed. Which is completely fine. I shouldn't have assumed that this subject matter would be completely rooted in realism and logic. It isn't meant to be.Also, I heard someone say that you could read this book back to front and intake the same story and I agree. We end where we began and nothing has really happened. But the characters are what we're rooting for at the end of the day. And the characters are fantastic.I especially adore Leigh and Erin. Erin is hurt and spiraling while coming across as the picture of calm and level headed. While Leigh is a genius but allowed to be deeply toxic. Leigh's backstory of being created from the body parts of 13 brilliant female scientists is stunning. This quote is about Leigh and is shows the brilliance and dark whimsy of McGuire's writing..."For her, life is the lab and the lab is life. The lab is where she awoke, confused, filled with the shrieking souls of countless dead. The wings of crows beat in her ribcage, prisoned in the fleshy confines of her heart; sometimes she feels their feathers brushing against her bones, which are a mixture of human, caprine, and whalebones scrimshaw, carved so beautifully that she sometimes thinks it a pity she needs skin. She would be so much more attractive as a walking specter of tendon and bone, exposing her creator's artwork to the world."Like, look me in the eye and tell you that quote didn't grab you by the throat???⭐️4.5Erin is THAT girl!I loved this so much. I need to get a physical book to annotate cause the audiobook is not it sis. But it will do if you can’t get a hold of a book or, like me, don’t have the attention span to physically read 528 pages with your eyeballs. I can’t wait to read more in this world. I just adore Seanad McGuire 💕
2740485327	5 reality-bending starsHow in the world do I write this review? The person who just finished this is both the person who started and simultaneously someone new. (A nod to the book, a nod to my feelings.) Middlegame is full of contradictions, belief, soul-forged truth, and an exploration on what we mean when we create myth.Writing: ★★★★★Concept: ★★★★★Pacing: ★★★★★ (It was only ★★ until I finished the book and reflected)Execution of themes: ★★★★★Middlegame is a novel for those of us who are looking for the spark of the Other that laces every page of Every Heart A Doorway. If you were not a fan of McGuire's novella series, I strongly feel like you will have similar issues with Middlegame, if not for the same reasons. Middlegame is frustrating, feverish, overtly cloudy, and mind-bending in the way that only Seanan McGuire can be. What do you get when you splice time travel, parallel realities, chaos game theory, notions of what it means to be human, and a desire for the Other? Something frightening, unending, and heartrendingly beautiful. I spent the first third confused, the middle third learning, and the last third holding my breath. I almost wonder what kind of novel it would be if you read it backwards, chapter by chapter. I think the story would hold up. Roger and Dodger are twins formed, not made, and are separated at birth in order to fulfill their true purpose on Earth at the hands of their creator, a creation himself and the man intent on fulfilling alchemy's Doctrine of Ethos on Earth. They need to become one and to stay separate, to fulfill their purpose and to keep their purpose from fulfilling. We go into the plot with almost no information, and I think that is one of the novel's strengths so I'll leave it at that. Trust in Middlegame to show you its way, in its own time, and for its own reasons. The pacing of Middlegame can be described as a three-dimensional spiral, in the shape of a tornado. Imagine the spiral in your head—it starts out wide, with just one strand in the dark. It's slow. You don't have any frame of reference. Then on your second loop around, it's a bit tighter, and you can see the points of connection between your current place and where you've come before—as well as a vague sense of a slightly-more-tightened coil beneath you. You go faster as the loops get tighter, and your sense of place and knowledge of the world compounds with each loop faster, faster. By the end, you're rolling around the same spot over and over and over and it's almost like you've stopped traveling any distance and are just retracing the same fevered spin, learning and unlearning the same steps in place. I think that Middlegame might lose several readers on its first few revolutions of the spiral. The idea is big, and it is intentionally not well explained. If you can make it through the first few loops and start to see the patterns, I promise it's worth it. In characteristic Seanan McGuire fashion, it is enough and it is not enough. It is beautiful and it is ugly. It is love and it is pain, there and not there, too slow and too fast, complete and undone. I can't get enough of her mind's creations. I would say that this is her magnum opus, the thing that she will never surpass, and yet... I bet she will. Blog | Instagram
2802245449	ETA: This is too funny! Seanan McGuire is actually going to turn the Up-and-Under/Over the Woodward Wall element of this novel into a real book series! https://www.tor.com/2019/07/01/announ...I am so there for this.4.5 stars for Seanan McGuire's latest novel! Final review, first posted on Fantasy Literature in a slightly different form, as a collaborative review with my friend and co-reviewer Jana. You should read our (excellent) joint review there! :DJames Reed and his assistant Leigh Barrow ― a pair of rebel alchemists of the mad scientist type ― have been doing human experimentation for years, trying to make/breed (it’s a combination of both) children who will embody the “Doctrine of Ethos” and have godlike magical powers. Because putting all this power in one person hasn’t worked, they split the Doctrine into its two components, math and language, between two fraternal twins. One twin will be a math genius; the other gifted with language and words. Raising these children under controlled conditions, the alchemists believe they can achieve the results they want and keep the powers under their own control.Roger and Dodger are one of these sets of twins, separated at birth and adopted out to families living on opposite coasts of the United State of America. Roger is the language-gifted child and Dodger (a girl) is the math-gifted one. At age 7 the twins figure out that they have not only the ability to mentally communicate (through “quantum entanglement,” announces Roger triumphantly) but the capacity to see through each other’s eyes ― a revelation to Roger, who is completely colorblind. But meanwhile the single-minded alchemists are keeping a VERY close eye on them. They'll do anything - even murder - to make sure nothing interferes with their plans. In Middlegame, McGuire blends together light science fiction, fantasy and some horror, and then tosses in elements of Greek philosophy (the aforementioned Doctrine of Ethos), Tarot-like concepts, timeline shifting, classic children’s literature, and more in an almost indescribable literary concoction. Initially I found it a little too muddled. I wanted the improbable road leading to the Impossible City to make more logical sense, and I thought the half-explained quasi-Tarot references to the King of Cups, Queen of Wands/Swords, Jack Daw, and Page of Frozen Waters were more distracting than useful. A. Deborah Baker only briefly appears at the very beginning of Middlegame, but her ideas inform the entire plot. The chapter-heading quotes from her Over the Woodward Wall add color to the main plot but didn’t supply all of the additional clarity and meaning I was looking for. (I deeply wish that this were an actual book, though!)But a funny thing happened on my way to the virtual forum where Jana and I were exchanging our ideas and assembling our joint review. I dug back into the text of Middlegame and found that these various elements melded together far more satisfactorily than I thought on first read. Elements that at first seemed opaque appeared much clearer on second read. I especially like the idea of L. Frank Baum using The Wonderful Wizard of Oz to deliberately muddy Baker’s pure division of the four elements (water, air, fire and earth and the related humors) into four quadrants.I’m still dubious about the “Doctrine of Ethos” as the concept underlying the entire alchemical plot. The original doctrine (a Greek theory of how music influences the thoughts and emotions of humans) has an extremely tenuous logical connection to how our unbalanced alchemists are literally embodying the Doctrine in a pair of individuals, “forc[ing] the Doctrine into flesh” as a way to influence the entire world, the fabric of time and reality itself. And I’ve concluded … you just have to roll with it. Suspend disbelief, strap yourself into your seat and enjoy the ride.Smart kids get put on a pedestal by parents and teachers alike, and the rest of the class gathers around the base of it throwing rocks, trying to knock them down. People who say ‘sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me’ don’t understand how words can be stones, hard and sharp-edged and dangerous and capable of doing so much more harm than anything physical.McGuire has such a gift for putting profound insights into words that strike your heart. As Roger and Dodger, both lonely children who don’t really fit in with others, get to know each other through their long-distance telepathic relationship, they realize how much they fit together, the scholastic strengths of one matching the weaknesses of the other.They can help each other. They can shore up the broken places. He knows the words for this: cooperation, symbiosis, reciprocity. So many words, and he’ll teach her all of them, if she’ll just keep being his friend.I realized, not long before Roger and Dodger themselves mention it, that their last names, Middleton and Cheswich, combine to make Midwich, a clever reference to The Midwich Cuckoos, a classic SF horror novel about a group of alien children (partially) concealed among humans. In Middlegame, though, the cuckoos have our undivided sympathy.Erin, the female half of one of Reed’s failed twin sets, turned assistant, developed into an excellent, multi-layered character, with far more depth than I initially expected. She ended up being one of my favorite characters … unlike Leigh, whose beauty hides an appalling bloodthirstiness.I have to add that I think the main plot of Middlegame is ingenious. I loved experiencing the growth of Roger and Dodger and the twists and turns in their relationship, and seeing how their powers gradually manifested. The astrolabe in Reed’s lab turns out to be more than a lovely symbol. There’s some pretty cosmic stuff going on here! If this is just the middle game in this world, I’d love to read about the endgame.Middlegame is a complex and thought-provoking novel that defies easy categorization. If you’re in the mood for something unusual, I strongly recommend Middlegame.Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for the review copy!Content notes: Some horror (THAT BURNING HAND THING) and violence, murder, attempted suicide, scattered F-bombs.
2609612028	1ish stars. Sorry, not sorry. I don't feel like I need to justify why I so strongly disliked this, but I'll explain anyway in case anyone else is in the same boat and needs to be reassured they're not crazy (or at least not alone in their craziness).I used to think I was a big Seanan McGuire fan, but I'm realizing I'm really just a big Wayward Children fan. I love those books but haven't loved anything else written by her. I actually think all of the things I like about the Wayward Children books - their simplicity and cleverness and whimsy - are all the things that don't work in this book. The tone of that series and this book feel similar, but this is decidedly not simple at 500+ pages, it's conceited instead of clever, and there's too much whimsy for a book with so many adult elements. So hard to take seriously.Also, I don't like any of the characters. In Wayward Children all of the characters are a bit touched which is completely justified given their circumstances and the child-like tone of the book. In Middlegame there's no reason for all of the characters to be silly caricatures of human beings; no one in real life talks like that. I find most of them, including Roger and Dodger, irritating and one-dimensional, which admittedly is part of the plot, but no less frustrating. The villain is nothing more than a cliched evil genius who watches from afar, wickedly wringing his hands, more than willing to monologue his intentions to control the universe, all while sending out evil henchmen to do his bidding instead of seeing it through himself. The premise sounds cool but the plot ends up being nonsensical. I can just imagine a couple second-graders coming up with a book idea: "My favorite subject is math and yours is language arts. I bet if we fused brains we'd be so smart we could probably take over the world!" Combine that with a convoluted mishmash of Frankenstein, Wizard of Oz, tarot cards, time travel, etc. and it just becomes a hot mess.To be honest, I'd much rather just read Over the Woodward Wall, the fictional children's book mentioned and sampled throughout the novel. From what I hear McGuire is actually going to write the series and I'm so on board for it.Note: I thought the audiobook narration was awful which I'm sure contributes to my dislike. I don't know if it was the narrator's choices, or the direction she was given, but it was truly bad. Ridiculous accents, sporadic tempo changes in the middle of dialogue, exaggerated lilting of cadences like the vocal equivalent of indeterminate music. My perception of the characters as being ridiculous is probably due in part to her ridiculous interpretation of them.Posted in Mr. Philip's Library
2536009058	Re-Read 1/17/22:I don't really need to say anything else. I still loved this as much as the first read. It's exciting and fantastical and all the SF elements kicked butt. Or were they Fantasy? It hella doesn't matter. Alchemy is the big, big bad, and I'm all over it.Original Review:Oh, lordy! Big caveat coming. I'm already a devoted fanboy of Seanan and I read almost everything she ever comes out with no matter what because I trust her implicitly.BUT. Nothing prepared me for this ambitious, thoughtful, mind-blowing modern fantasy of Alchemy and Twins. She spread her wings for this one and turned tons of dichotomies into hardcore story elements, synthesizing Order and Chaos, Math and Storytelling, Isolation and Community, and made a story of Balance a bit more ambitious than any I've seen in almost any novel. That's Middlegame. The space between the beginning and the end. The moment of transformation. The moment of synthesis.I'm SOOOO freaking happy to have read this. :) I'm going to nominate it for next year's Hugo on its own merits and NOT because I'm already a fanboy of the author. That's the quality within. :) My decision has been purified with a universal solvent. :)Oh, and the characters, Roger and Dodger, are freaking cool. :) Great, complicated, beautiful story. The opener isn't quite as strong as the early days of the two kids, but that's merely my own opinion. Once all the elements started mixing together into this alchemical brew, the results were amazing.
3089380226	*4.5/5I can’t even begin to explain the amount of skill needed to write a book like this. God, this is so imaginative and dark and horrifying and mind bending and weird. Seanan truly is one of the best writers out there.
3444518537	i have never fallen in love with a book as fast as i have with this one. as soon as i read the violent scene in the first chapter i was sucked in. everything from the chapters being out of order so the story is told on an inconsistent timeline to the mad alchemist in this book and most importantly the twins. i love their connection and how they were linked with each other, how they were smarter than everyone else but that didn’t make them smart at everything. how they were two halves of a whole. Roger being good at spelling and loving to read but being bad at math. Doger being amazing at math and being bad at spelling (while growing up) i love how before they discovered they were twins they just thought they were friends but were so dependent on each other.
2771960440	3.5 starsI recently read this for a video and I’m surprised how much I enjoyed this! This is definitely a bit out of my comfort zone, but I fell in love with these characters: Roger and Dodger. I will say I enjoyed the first half more than the second half, and I wasn’t totally invested in the fantasy aspect of this book, I was pretty confused about the impossible city and I spent most of the second half of the book not understanding what was happening, but Roger and Dodger and their cute relationship really made this book for me.Here’s the reading vlog where I read this book: https://youtu.be/uitYgdWObpk
2865340947	Read this for a video project on my YouTube channel, where I read some of my friends' favourite books and I had to like them or I would unsubscribe from their channel (l0l - it's all for fun, I swear). Check out my review of Middlegame here: https://youtu.be/yUMsRYWSqh4
2890290056	I had no idea what I was getting myself into when I started this and tbh I'm still not entirely sure what was going on. What I do know is that I had a really good time.
5855819090	En un mundo controlado desde las sombras por el Congreso Alquímico, dos hermanos gemelos tienen la clave del futuro de la humanidad.No son humanos, tampoco dioses. No del todo. Aún no.Roger y Dodger son hermanos. Pero ellos no lo saben. Tienen capacidades más allá de lo común: Roger con las palabras, Dodger con las matemáticas, pero ni siquiera vislumbran lo que esto significa. Solo una cosa es segura: sus vidas están conectadas irremediablemente.Reed, experto alquimista, tiene un plan: elevar los gemelos al poder más alto jamás conseguido, ascender con ellos y hacerse con el control del mundo. Casi puede tocar la divinidad con la punta de sus dedos. Solo necesita que los gemelos hagan su parte.Mientras poderosas fuerzas más allá de nuestra realidad y del tiempo mueven los hilos de sus vidas, Roger y Dodger irán descubriendo su misterioso origen y el destino que les fue asignado mucho antes de nacer. Solo ellos podrán cambiar el final de su propia historia y de toda la humanidad..Pues le pongo la quinta estrella, iba a dejarlo en cuatro pero es raro leer algo original.Una sorpresa extraña y rara de la fantasía. Y muy grata. El uso de la alquimia, la ciencia y las matemáticas, una mezcla que deja mucho a la imaginación. Diría que incluso tiene una parte de CF.Esta historia es totalmente única. Hoy en día es difícil ser novedoso o encontrar una historia que nunca antes hayas leído algo parecido.Narrado de manera adictiva, interesante a la par que macabra y realmente fascinante que te transporta totalmente a la historia. A cada lugar con cada personaje. Es una historia muy compleja, algo a tener muy en cuenta.Recalco el aspecto narrativo pues la prosa de la autora es un estilo que pocos he leído, son de los que atrapan y vas pasando las páginas a gran velocidad. Eso más una trama única y buenos personajes da como resultado una espléndida lectura.Personajes, sociedad y ambientación trabajada a la par con su prosa. Sencilla, ágil, rara pero es cautivadora.Me ha fascinado cada aspecto de la novela. Y es muy difícil explayarme más. Sea de la trama o de los personajes.Es una historia extraña para adentrarse y dejarse llevar. Si te gusta lo que estás leyendo vas a tener un viaje excepcional. Por otra parte su estilo e historia es un arma se doble filo. Ojo.O sigues leyendo o abandonas. ¿A cuál de los dos bandos perteneces tú?La trama es extraña pero interesante. Es un poco confusa y requiere algo de paciencia al principio. Si ya ahí capta tu interés, te está fascinando lo que lees en este extraño libro en tan extraña historia entonces es para ti y lo vas a gozar.Comienzo de una saga con un final cerrado, eso fue la guinda del pastel.A vuestra elección, espero que lo disfrutéis..✍️🎩
2926190785	"You can't skip to the end of the story just because you're tired of being in the middle. You'd never survive."Holy shit! Holy hell, what was this book? What the hell? What did I just read? This is such a complicated and mindfucking book. Okay, it has been like two weeks since I finished this book and only now I've made the courage to write this review. TW: self-harm, suicide attempt. I've read this book as slowly as I could to be sure that I understood everything that was happening. I'm sure that there are a lot of things that I missed since this is a pretty dense book and because of that I cannot really consider it a favourite of the year. I'll probably re-read it closer to the release date of the second book. (which I had no idea was actually a thing until I finished this book) Only after I re-read it, and get the full picture that the author was trying to show by writing this, I feel like I could consider it a favourite. This is such a complicated book that I know I will not be able to summarise the overall plot of the book, but here goes nothing.Basically, there are these two twins. Roger and Dodger. Roger is very skilled when it comes to words and languages come easily to him. He understands how the world works through the power of words. Then we have Dodger. Math is her world. All she understand is through the power of math. Roger and Dodger aren't exactly human, but they aren't gods either. Not that they are aware of that. Then comes Reed in the picture. He is an extremely skilled alchemist. He created Roger and his twin, but he is not their father, not really. His plan is to raise the twins to power, to make them gods, then steal their power to himself. Godhood is attainable. Pray it isn't attained. I love Roger and Dodger so much. Although I related more with Dodger, with her love for Math, I liked Roger more and I actually consider him my favourite character in this book. I feel so bad about everything they went through. They didn't deserve that. They should have grown up together. They should have been happy. But, of course, we wouldn't have had this masterpiece of a book if not for all the pain our main characters went through. There were so many times when I was so confused through out the book, and that's mostly the reason why it took me longer to read this book than usual. It isn't that long of a book, but it isn't short either. But what made it hard for me to read it, it was how dense the book actually is. So many things happen in it. We see Roger and Dodger grow up through out the book. The first time we see them they are babies, then we see them grow up to kids, teenagers until their are adults. We see them facing so many challenges and some things affect them so so badly. I feel like my review is so confusing. My brain is still processing everything that happened in this book. Even two weeks later. I'm not making this book justice! This is such a good book and if it feels like something you would enjoy, you should really pick this book up.
3110332095	I cannot even begin to try to explain how perfect this book was for me. Holy shit.also the fact that I don’t even like the wayward children series and this??? Is my new favourite book??? How is that even possible????
2772740470	Amazing, dark, terrifying and magic book! Don't have enough words to tell how much l love this one!
2534730749	I'm always nervous when one of my favourite authors comes out with a novel that seems to be very different from anything they've ever done before. In the case of Middlegame, Seanan McGuire has given us a book that is unlike most things I've read before. As usual she stands in a class all her own and screams "look at me"! And while I really enjoyed this unique science fiction, dystopian, magical realism (add other genres here) story; it wasn't up to the 'snuff' I expect from Seanan. It felt a little drawn out and perhaps needed one more round of solid editing to be more concise. Date, Time & PlaceAs someone who reads a lot of historical and science fiction I'm familiar with the usual date, time, place information at the beginning of a chapter. Generally I find myself flipping back (or in the case of a book on my eReader cursing) to remember what the last date, time, place I was given was. McGuire solves this issue sooo elegantly. I want this to become a new standard for date, time, place monikers. We get in brackets, at the beginning of (most) chapters, notes about if it's: later the same day, a different day, a few hours later, a month later, years later, etc. Or in the case of some fun time warping a note about how skewed time has become. It may seem minor but this little detail was critical to my enjoyment of Middlegame as I wasn't constantly flipping back and forth to orient myself. More like Mira GrantFor those not familiar with McGuire's work she also publishes horror books under a pseudonym l, Mira Grant. I wish this was a Seanan McGuire meets Mira Grant novel. There are moments during it when the depth, detail and goriness (to be frank) of Grant's books would have been better suited here. Now you may think to yourself; they are the same person! But I honestly believe that a good writer (and McGuire is amazing) puts on a different 'hat' to write in certain genres or under different names. What I wanted here was a little more Grant with my McGuire. While Middlegame feels more like a Blake Crouch book than anything else I can think of in recent years; it still has the strong relationships and magical allure of most of McGuire's writing. An example of where the horror gore would have benefited the story is with the Hand of Glory. It is described as a melting gruesome thing. My second disappointment with the gore factor in Middlegame was the very underwhelming cover. Where's the melting? Where's the burning flesh? Where's the horror that the hand used to belong to a real person?Mixing Religion, Magic, Science & AlchemyA really good science fiction or fantasy book (in my mind) will take different aspects of real-life knowledge and blend them with ones you might not expect. While the study of alchemy has long been the disproved sibling of science; there is no doubt that both have roots from the same place. McGuire takes ancient alchemy concepts, today's science, and mixes it all around. Adding a healthy dose of religion, superstition and magic into the pot. By the time you come out of Middlegame you won't be sure what might have been rooted in science or math and what wasn't. I liked this treatment of the technical aspects of this book as it left more up to the imagination and it didn't let doubts seep in; the way a book that is very science based might have. This is a clever way to deal with a magical realism story that people can believe and connect with. Lost in Time & SpaceThere are few writers that can twist a timeline around on a reader and keep reader’s attention and the order of events sorted. Some of those writers include Blake Crouch, Stephen King, Brandon Sanderson and (now) Seanan McGuire. The veteran writing style and touch of McGuire kept me not only entertained; but also oriented in the ever fluctuating timeline of Middlegame. This is not a single timeline story and part of it's allure and magic is that time twists around in places and creates opportunities for things to happen in a magical way. Why Four Stars?By now you may be wondering why I only gave this four stars. There are points during the story where the plot is bogged down by mini-info dumps. The first time it happens I figured McGuire was just ensuring we caught some nuances. But by the last 100 pages there were STILL large amounts of text that explained away happenings. Certainly for the average writer this would be expected; but McGuire is anything but an average novelist. So it was disappointing to see a poor tactic used here on more than one occasion. Additionally, I found the dialogue between characters could be a bit stilted and ridiculous. As though it was only there to reassure the reader that our characters were still pinged into the intricacies of the story. OverallI think Middlegame might have benefited from more smooth proofing or an editor that would recommend cuts in some of the denser parts of the novel. If you have enjoyed Mira Grant before then definitely read this. If you're more into the McGuire’s Heart of the Doorway or Incryptid series this may be a little too complex to your taste. Although, ironically, if all these books existed in one multiverse it could potentially explain a lot of things. And maybe they do all exist in the same place and time; without every encompassing the same time and place. Middlegame will keep your brain moving, engaged and has a good dose of McGuire's imagination at it's best. Please note: I received an eARC of this book from the publisher via NetGalley. This is an honest and unbiased review.
2788447125	This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book Prescription🌟 Seanan McGuire does it again! This was so entertaining and addicting. I should add a disclaimer here that this was sent for me by the publisher who I am thankful for. This however, did not affect my review which is as honest as usual!🌟 It feels weird to read something by Seanan other than the Wayward Children series which I like very much. I was happy when I received this because the author has such a beautiful prose that always leaves me wanting more.🌟 So the writing was also the thing that I enjoyed in this book which cements the fact that Seanan is a great author in her other works too. The book has a major theme of Maths and Language which are my favorite 2 things in the world. I like how it showed the importance of these 2 things. The quotes at the start of each part were a very good idea!I have to leave a TW for a graphic Suicidal attempt and self harm though.🌟 Roger and Dodger are going to be 2 characters I am going to be remembering for a long time. Part of that is because we follow them from their childhood to adulthood which was a new experience for me. But part of it is because it was a bit slow and there were some repetitions that could have been cut out to make this shorter.I mean the book was huge and it took me longer than usual to finish it, at the acknowledgment part the author mentions that it is 150,000+ words and it definitely could have been shorter.🌟 The plot is weird but interesting, it is kind of confusing and you need to have patience when reading this book. I bet some readers will be frustrated by this and will DNF or it will affect their rating and that’s why I recommend reading this slowly and with concentration. I think at the end I was satisfied by the outcome. There are some things that could have been explained better but all in all I didn’t mind the mysterious parts!🌟 Summary and Prescription: Middlegame may be the weirdest book I read up to this date and I mean that in a very good way! I think if you are into Sci-fi and fantasy then this will be a good book but you must have patience to get all the answers later in the book!
2991227725	Holy Hand of Glory! How this book didn't win the HUGO is beyond me. Meet Roger: a nice boy from the East Coast who loves everything about words (in all kinds of languages).And meet Dodger: a girl living on the West Coast who loves everything about numbers and solving one mathematical mystery after another. Both have been adopted, in both their adoption contracts it was stipulated that their adoptive parents need to let them keep their names. Why? Because the guy who made Roger and Dodger has something with rhyming names. Yes, you read that right: Roger and Dodger aren't normal human children. They were made. By an alchemist's creation. Think Frankenstein's monster taking over Frankenstein's lab.And why did Reed do that? Well, he wants to find the Impossible City and become a god. But for some reason, he can't travel the Improbable Road despite his creator (A. Deborah Baker) having written a how-to ... sorta. So he started creating twins. Generations and generations of children. Constantly tinkering with their genetics to get it just right. Meaning they've died, spawning improvements and thus a new generation. All but Roger and Dodger have failed. The terrible thing? Them failing/dying was a good thing because the alternative would be ... the end of the world. I loved meeting the children early on and then following them growing up. I also loved seeing these impressive yet "normal" talents in linguistics and mathematics turning into something else. I really loved the evolutionary reveal about that. (view spoiler)[The timey-wimey reset ability or the voice commands as inevitable results if you take such abilities and develop them further. (hide spoiler)] The writing was whimsical, albeit not as much as in the Waywards Children series. It was also erudite and fascinating and suspenseful from the start. The characters were quirky, sometimes aggravating, often heartbreaking, always heartwarming. Flawed, hopeful, bad-ass nerds for the win - or not! Also, the author managed to seamlessly combine fantasy with science fiction, which was magnificent. Where it gets hilariously meta is that the author, Seanan McGuire, not only invented a children's book that exists in this world (complete with quotes in this book) but actually wrote the whole thing and published it for real! Yes, I've read it and, now that I've finished this book, I will re-read it (see review *here*) and will then continue with the newly released second volume (see review *here*). And yes, that series is very wonderful all by itself. It's the connection to this one that makes it deliciously geeky though. A seriously underrated and apparently underappreciated piece of modern literature that made me laugh, cry and pull my own hair.
4549222738	this book for written for meeeeeereview: https://youtu.be/1wBCBmOE--o
2600128181	You can also read my review here: https://devouringbooks2017.wordpress....Middlegame is the first book that I've read by Seanan McGuire and I finally understand what I've been missing out on all this time. Seanan McGuire is an amazing storyteller and Middlegame was a great read. I am so glad that I gave Middlegame a chance, because I had pretty low expectations and this book wound up being pretty great. Middlegame is a fantasy that focuses on a brother-sister relationship and even though it was over 500 pages long I never got bored. This has never been about good and evil. This is about power. Who has it, who doesn't. Who knows how to use it. The idea behind the novel was pretty interesting. Two siblings were created to embody the knowledge of the world, one through math and the other though language. The author also incorporates a children's fantasy book into the world that is supposed to help guide the siblings to reach "The Impossible City". The constant comparison of the real world to a children's fantasy book was really interesting, but lead me to expect the beauty and rich fantasy of that story to be incorporated into the real world, but the book remained much more realistic and I was pretty disappointed in that aspect. "Someone made us. Someone made us, and then they separated us because we were dangerous when we were together." The book is told in third person omniscient narration, which was especially interesting during conversations because as a reader you get insight on both characters. The narration mainly focused on a few main characters, one of which is Reed, who is a mad scientist and the villain of this story. I hated reading the chapters that focused on him as they felt impersonal and there was only so much egotistical mad scientist narrative that I could take. These chapters disrupted the flow of the novel for me as they felt so clinical in comparison to the rest of the book that was otherwise so human and rich. I understand that Reed was supposed to be lacking in some emotions, but as a villain he fell kind of flat for me. In that moment, Roger is sure-- absolutely certain-- of two things: Dodger is real, and he wants her to be his friend. The relationship between Rodger and Dodger is what made this book shine. I loved watching their friendship grow throughout their lives and I absolutely adored these characters. I favored Dodger over Rodger as she looked at the world as a thing to manipulate to her favor. Dodger was more social and friendly, but Rodger was more interesting to me. As far as the characterization of these two siblings the book gets five stars from me, but there were many other areas that I found to be disappointing. She'd approached the issue of social interaction like it was another puzzle to be solved, another prize to be won. The pacing was a bit too slow, even in high action scenes. This book was lacking in tension and fell a bit emotionally flat. The main characters were amazing and the idea behind the book was interesting, but I feel like the plot needed more work. I didn't feel like the story was complete, even though it is a 500 page stand alone. I felt like it was 500 pages of character development and it needed more plot movement and better pacing. I did really enjoy it, but I felt like it missed the mark a little bit. After reading Middlegame I am really interested to check out some of Seanan McGuire's other books. Magic doesn't have to be flashy and huge. Sometimes it's the subtle things that are the most effective of all.
2984040777	In my journey as a reader, I can pinpoint the books that were a turning point in my reading experience. The first time I got a letter to Hogwarts or visited Middle Earth. The first romance book, and the first book that made me cry.Middlegame is a turning point. I finished this book knowing that it would be very rare for me to read anything like this again, and also that I'm a different person because of it. This book manages to be a sci-fi contemporary fantasy written with finesse and sensitivity. Tugging at your heartstrings while shoving you headfirst into a scary world with Frankenstein scientists and the elusive Alchemical Arts.The simple way to describe Middlegame is that this is a book about Roger and Dodger. Twins that were created and then separated at birth. Roger is the physical manifestation of language, and Dodger is the incarnation of Math. Although, neither have any idea of that. Together they can form the Doctrine of Ethos, and basically ascend to Godhood, controlling the universe. They were created for this purpose by a man named Reed. So basically, they are lab experiments roaming the world, ready to unleash immense power when called upon.In a more complex way, Middlegame is a delicate book about family and control. About the choices you make and the consequences they bring. It's about time and space manipulation but it's also about friendship and mental health and breaking free from what the world wants you to be. All the while being simply Magical.I don't think it's possible to describe in this review how this book packs a punch, but I just know that I'm incredibly glad and lucky I went on this journey provided by Seanan McGuire. “You can’t skip to the end of the story just because you’re tired of being in the middle. You’d never survive.”― Seanan McGuire, Middlegame----------------------------------------------------------------------------I have no words... this was an insane ride and I feel like I shoved years of information into my brain in just a few hours. I can't even try to understand how Seanan McGuire imagined this story to life. It's absurdly good. I'll come back with a more eloquent review when my brain has been restored to something other than infatuated goo.
2876046655	My review “This has never been about good and evil. This is about power. Who has it, who doesn't. Who knows how to use it.”Well if there isn't a better thing than a good session of mindfuck and „what the hell just happened“. Psychic twins, mathematics, alchemy, words, time manipulation – you just name it, Middlegame’s got it all. This book is a real piece of work for the reader’s brain, forcing it to pay close attention and soak in every detail not knowing when it’s going to matter the most. A tale of past and present, science and passion and love between siblings that can overtake anything has swiped me off my feet and left me in a sweet sweet agony of wonder. But what is this story about?It all started with one talented alchemist – Deborah A. Baker, who found a way of capturing the Doctrine – an alchemical incarnation that allows its owner to control the world. She hides her discoveries in the form of a children’s book, leaving it to her son, no – creation, John Reed to continue her work and create cuckoos which will embody Doctrine and, once matured, help him reach the Impossible City and rule the world. It will take him two centuries, a lot of money and loads of failed “creations” until he finds a pair of bodies that might actually stand a chance in manifesting the Doctrine. Dodger is good with numbers. That’s an understatement - Dodger is a mathematical genius, but she’s so very alone and sad all the time because she’s smarter than everyone else. Roger loves reading. He has learned seven languages and read books worth three libraries by the time he turned fourteen. Roger and Dodger are twins, but they don’t know it yet. Actually, they haven’t ever seen each other – they just started talking through their minds one day when they were seven. As time passed, they figured they were connected with some sort of quantum entanglement, but that didn’t make it any less weird. Their rocky and complicated but special and irreplaceable relationship will survive a lifetime of ups and downs before they finally see they can’t live without each other.I fell in love with their bond from the moment I opened this book, and there was really no going back after that. I’ll never get enough of sibling love in any form, but this book of struggle and a wasted lifetime hit the target. It pierced my heart, made me cry and laugh and curse those two dumb morons for running from each other while they could have their best friend and most important person by their side all along. Dodger was always in a rough place, but her loneliness was different from Roger’s. While Roger managed to find some sense of social normality and group of people to spend time with, Dodger was always a lonely bird – and that loneliness broke her. “People who say “sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me” don’t understand how words can be stones, hard and sharp-edged and dangerous and capable of doing so much more harm than anything physical.”When Roger left their connection, her self-confidence and already unstable psyche fell apart and created a gap that won’t be closed for another 20 years. The two of them were pulled apart, then thrown together again, but it took them way too much time to see how important it is to stop running from each other and find where they’ve always belonged – together.“Someone made us. Someone made us, and then they separated us because we were dangerous when we were together.”But what if staying together meant wielding power bigger than either of them is ready to accept? This science-fiction novel is based on the theory of splitting the Doctrine in two bodies which will, after they mature separately, be able to control the world itself. It was really confusing, but also magnificent and entertaining, to learn the boundaries and excesses of Roger and Dodger’s abilities. Time is a tricky concept to play with, but if done properly it can do wonders. McGuire created a stunning concept of timelines – controlled by mathematics and equations – and words because one can’t go without another. Her amazing writing and pacing resulted in a thrilling and complicated story, easy to follow, but absolutely impossible to comprehend. When running is all you got, and time means nothing, your crazy twin is the only one you can really count on, right? Oh, and also Erin, who is the biggest badass of all time.“Time is a concept invented by men who didn’t want everything to keep happening at once. Time is irrelevant.”Blog TwitterTumblr
2535607169	Middlegame is weird and challenging, and I loved it.Let me start by stating that the synopsis doesn't feel very accurate to me. Yes, Roger and Dodger are twins... kind of. But I don't think the books itself refers to attaining godhood. So I'm glad I didn't read the synopsis very carefully before starting, because it might have created some bizarre expectations that definitely would have gone unfulfilled.In Middlegame, Dodger and Roger are creations, but they spend most of their lives not knowing this. They were created by a powerful alchemist, himself a creation of a powerful, game-changing alchemist, and they have a specific purpose in life -- to manifest the alchemical concept of the Doctrine of Ethos.Huh?Yup, that was my reaction... but the confusion is part of the experience of this book, and I was happy to just go with it. Roger and Dodger each have a gift -- language for Roger, math for Dodger. Raised on opposite sides of the country by adoptive parents, they discover a psychic connection as young children, and as they grow up, their bond develops, strengthens, and becomes powerful, dangerous, and more and more inexplicable. Meanwhile, Reed and his allies monitor the pair carefully, charting their progress toward manifestation, making sure to keep them apart when their progress threatens the greater goals of the project.It's all just so twisty and timey-wimey and mind-bending and GOOD. And as always, I love Seanan McGuire's writing. Does she have a bit of Roger's ability to create reality through her words? All signs point to yes.I won't go into a lot of detail, mainly because I just finished this long, complicated book and I'm still sifting through it all in my mind. There's a lot to puzzle through and unravel. So rather than digging further into plot threads, I'll share some lines and quotes that jumped out at me as I was reading:...and she can no more conceive of failure than a butterfly can conceive of calculus.-------You can't skip to the end of the story just because you're tired of being in the middle.-------Everything is perfect. Everything is doomed.-------Roger has never understood the math that calls to her, but he feels it now, thrumming in his veins like a promise of miracles to come. Dodger has never grasped the need to put a name to the things she knows to be true, but she understands it now, and accepts the names he throws her way gladly, transforming them through the alchemy of her observations before she throws them back to him.Here's one that makes my brain ache:She knows that, as surely as she knows that every second takes away more of her slim opportunity to escape becoming the future self of a girl she, as yet, never was.I really don't think there's much I can say or add that will do justice to the headlong rush of tragedy, violence, excitement, and true deep emotion that mixes together in Middlegame. So I'll just wrap by saying that this is an awesome adventure of a read, and I'm sure I'm going to want to read it again after my mind relaxes.Oh, and I love the fact that one of the super-powerful alchemists wrote a best-selling children's fantasy book series, full of magical quests along the lines of a Narnia/Fillory tale -- but that these stories really are code for alchemical inquiries into controlling the powers of the universe. Which made me wonder just a bit if there's more to, I don't know, Harry Potter? than meets the eye...Extra gold points for great use of San Francisco landmarks (Sutro Baths!)... and how can you not love a book that includes the phrase killer death alchemists as if it's a normal thing to say?Seanan McGuire fans, rest assured -- our beloved author strikes again, and it's fabulous.Review copy courtesy of the publisher via NetGalley Full review at Bookshelf Fantasies.
3193227573	This is a one star that I give out with great sadness. I wanted to like this book so badly. So many people I respect LOVE this book and I wanted nothing more than to be one of them. I just could not for the life of me like any of it. I wanted to DNF so strongly but I felt it was my duty to finish before giving it a rating. Unfortunately, I may have given it 3 stars if I had DNF'd towards the beginning, but finishing it knocked it all the way down to 1 star. It just really was not for me. I didn't like the plot, characters, OR writing. Very sad day.Booktube | Instagram | Twitter
2562908702	What an odd and wonderful story.
3674160035	This is a wicked, twisty book full of mystery, pain, and intrigue. It got a couple of audible gasps from me -- you'll know when if you read it -- and kept me up way, way past my bedtime.
2624516360	I wanted to like this so much more! The premise is amazing and some parts of the books were riveting, plus I REALLY liked Roger and Dodger as characters, but wow was this long winded. It lacked a sense of place and feeling for me and I had a hard time picturing it. I thought it would be more stylistic, fantastical, and action-filled, but it was more of a long character (or sibling, rather) study with lots of math and language references. I don’t mind books that are focused on relationships and conversation and internal narration, but this particular book didn’t click with me like I wanted it to. And trust me, I was SO excited and pumped for a new favorite. This will still be one of my favorite book covers of the year.One of the most frustrating parts of it is how the villains are... mostly absent? It’s like watching an old episode of Power Rangers where the “big bad” villains are perched far, far away from the heroes, laughing and scheming and rubbing their hands together thinking they’re so smart while never actually doing anything evil. I just wanted more, dammit! I wanted them to be more fully fleshed out. And speaking of things not being fleshed out, a lot of the details about how ANY of this works isn’t explained. It’s like hinted at that we’ll get answers that never really come? Some may be okay with that, but I didn’t enjoy it.A plot about alchemy and long lost siblings finding each other and discovering who they really are is enough to excite me, but I found myself getting bored and feeling annoyed by the repetition. I wish I didn’t feel this way, truly.Now, take this review with a grain of salt because most reviewers have rated this book 4+ stars, and many of my mutuals 5 stars. I don’t fault the book or the author, obviously Seanan McGuire is a brilliant writer and I will keep reading her work, but this one wasn’t a favorite unfortunately. 2.5 stars.
5153169327	وای وای! یکی از خفن ترین کتابایی که تا حالا خوندم! انقدر عجیب و انقدر خارق العاده و انقدر سنگین...بسی گیج کننده شروع میشه و پیش می‌ره، ولی وقتی رفته رفته میخونی میری جلو، کم کم همه چی میان میشینن سرجاشون تو مغزت، با یه کلیک لذت بخش، و بعد دوباره یه سردرگمی و پیچیدگی دیگه...من یه شیمیستم و وقتی دیدم داستان درباره کیمیاگریه کلی ذوق داشتم برای خوندنش...ولی مفهوم "کیمیاگری" توی این کتاب خیلی بالاتر و پیچیده تر از اون چیزی بود که من فکرشو میکردم و لذت بردم! از خوندن این کتاب خارق العاده و عجیب و سنگین و پر از شگفتی و پر از عجایب با زبان و قلم فوق العاده ش بسی لذت بردم.همین.پ ن: ترجمه ش خوب بود. فی الواقع خیلی خوب... متن سنگینی داره و برای درک و تمرکز بهتر توصیه میکنم حتما این ترجمه رو بخونین :)
3656158900	↠4.5 This book is super weird, and I love it.It’s confusing in the beginning, and even towards the end the confusion may be present, but I love books that make me question my sanity. The story was written in a riddle kind of way that went hand in hand with the plot. The characters were gripping. I liked Dodger and her math more than Roger and his language, which is a bit odd considering that I like languages. Roger as the “dominant” and stronger one irked me because Dodge was stronger than him in my eyes.Oh, I also liked how the story was covering their childhood, teenage years and adulthood.
6864228617	“The Impossible City isn’t far from here, and I can take you, if you’d like to go. Just take your hand, close your eyes and trust me. I know the way.”(Fan art by Diana Fox) I have come to the conclusion that I don’t read enough Fantasy. Because when I do there’s this hole in my heart that gets filled to overflowing giving me joy uncontained. It’s like a part of my soul gets feed that was starving for so long it was barely alive. And then when I do manage to feed it, my brain is like “WHY DO YOU KEEP THIS FROM YOURSELF FOR THIS LONG?” I’m convinced McGuire have the language part of the Ethos doctrine. She puts words on pages that feel like the best Swiss Chocolate in the world slowly, deliciously melting on your tongue giving your taste buds an experience so overwhelming and beautiful you want to die. (I’m a chocolate lover if you can’t tell)There are passages in this book that I’ve highlighted and re-read so many times that the beauty of the words is edged into my heart. “She looks like peaches and cream, like Saturday afternoons down by the frog pond, innocence and the American dream wrapped up in a single startlingly lovely package.” But it’s not just the beautiful writing that got me. This story is just so much more than what I expected. Each reveal was like a layer being pulled back, but also like a vortex pulling me deeper into it. I loved the concept, I loved the execution, I loved the characters, but most of all I loved that this book transported me out of my mundane world, into a world of infinite possibilities. I feel if I say more I might spoil things for those fortunate enough to be reading it for the first time. Just know this book is going on my favorite shelf and will most defiantly be re-read.
3503547011	BEST M/F SIBLING CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT. On this hill, I stand.the filial love. the dynamics. Horror Fantasy at it’s best.((RIP MY ANNOTATIONS: i have a confession to make, i lost my physical copy somewhere when i was moving out of my college dorm room and i've been grieving this book because i can't find it and it's definitely one of my favorite books of all time. hopefully i find it in the future somewhere in my house but continued it on kindle :(( *sobs*))Recommended by BenjaminI'm suddenly curious about Seanan McGuire's other books after starting the Wayward Children
4656214348	Wishlist | Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Ko-fi #1 Middlegame - ★★★★★#2 Seasonal Fears - TBR Middlegame has easily become, and will stay for a long time, one of my ultimate favourite books of all time. I am so glad I won it as a giveaway, as otherwise this book may never have found me. About Middlegame: I went in unprepared, and loved the experience I was introduced to. I read the synopsis, but the book didn’t do it justice. There is so much going on that one blurb could never be able to explain. You will get to meet twins Roger and Dodger. Roger is very good with languages and stories. Dodger is amazing with maths. Numbers come so easy for her, and they are her world. Roger and Dodger are not actually human, although they don’t know it. The bond they have between them is special, and it serves a special purpose in the world. They are two pieces in a puzzle, and need each other’s abilities to unlock their full potential. “The unspoken pieces of language are sometimes the most painful.” And even though they’re twins, they live in separate states and can communicate in a unique way. This was actually one of the most intriguing parts for me – I loved how they get to know each other and start communicating, and also how throughout the years, despite all the challenges, they keep finding their way to each other. “Heredity is not only in blood. It is in the sympathetic vibration of the universe, in the places where atom becomes alchemy.” Roger and Dodger were created by Reed, an alchemist, who has goals of his own. His plan is to raise the twins to the highest power, to ascend with them and claim their authority as his own. I particularly liked Reed’s chapters. I enjoyed these, as they show a much larger picture of the motives behind what he is doing and to learn more about what the Doctrine is. “Ignorance is bliss, or at least ignorance leads to better choices: ignorance doesn’t try to account for the costs and consequences of a hundred doomed timelines every time it takes a step.” My Thoughts: As I said, the blurb doesn’t do this book justice, in fact, it will probably confuse you rather than offer an explanation. But Middlegame is so much more than that! If I could recommend one thing, it would be to dive into the story without knowing too much. Everything will be explained properly as you start reading, and it will all make sense, unlike my notes of the blurb. “But what is perfection, really, if not the act of winning?” For me, diving into Middlegame transported me into another reality, where alchemy resembles magic. It has been a while since a book did that to me from the first chapter and that is one of the reasons I will remember this book. Middlegame starts with an “end of the world” type of way, and then we go back in time to find out what led to this moment “Time is like skin: it can scar if you cut it enough times.” The other fascinating thing for me were the excerpts from “Over the Woodward Wall” by A. Deborah Baker. Deborah Baker was an alchemist and she created Reed. After finishing the book and doing some research, it turns out that this is a real book. And the author, A. Deborah Baker, is a pen name for Seanan McGuire. What an incredible thing to do – I am still in awe of this fact.As for Seanan McGuire, I have nothing but praise! For all the feelings Middlegame evoked from me. For the incredible writing and for hiding a book within a book. And an author within an author, within a character. I will be definitely continuing “Alchemical Journeys” and reading “Seasonal Fears”, the second book in the series, as well as “Over the Woodward Wall”. “In the same ordinary town, on the same ordinary street, lived two ordinary children who had never quite managed to cross paths.”- From “Over the Woodward Wall” by A. Deborah Baker
2675166858	Intelligent writing and a meticulously planned plot progression made Middlegame a compelling, enjoyable experience.There's a fine and hazy line between ambitious and reaching, and it took me a large portion of the book to determine which side McGuire was leaning towards. Middlegame takes a fairly simple premise and weaves an intricate story around it in an (ultimately) satisfying way:Roger and Dodger unwittingly hold, from birth, the fate of the world in their hands. Crafted by alchemists as experimental tools to...to uh..to become the living embodiment of the Doctrine of Ethos?, they are separated at birth but are continually drawn together – first telepathically, and then physically. The simple basic concept? Like in a chess game where the opening moves have already been played and the ending can ultimately go only one of two ways, Roger and Dodger have an almost infinite number of moves they can make in the middlegame...and the power to undo those moves if they don't love the look of the board near the end of the game.There are plenty of good things to say about this story. I found the writing to be smart and the plot itself to be parceled out neatly and at exactly the right pace. McGuire adds layers of mythology and complication and twist, but the tale is exactly as puzzling as it is meant to be. The revelations, as they come, bring concise explanation along with them. She is also committed to her characterizations and consistent in her vision. I found it notably refreshing that the “love story” in Middlegame is about the connection of family and shared hopes. (Though the level of dependency is difficult for me to connect to, personally, and thus seems odd.)A few questionable choices kept this solidly in my middle estimation. While clearly an adult book, the main characters project a sort of childish, stubborn capriciousness that is just a bit too consistently whimsical and stays with Roger and Dodger well into adulthood. The Big Bads really do not evolve beyond mustache-twirling-MUA-haha-ing evil figures, despite a good effort at back story. The alchemists' big story doesn't actually resolve satisfactorily...especially tying Baker back into the endgame, which felt amiss. Additionally, a few stylistic writing choices maybe took ambition a bit too far; for example, McGuire's use of repetition can easily be called a purposeful device, given the use of repeating timeline. That's clever, certainly, but it gets overly dramatic, emotionally manipulative, and eventually annoying.I find I could keep going about this story for a great deal longer, which speaks for it. While it wasn't a truly remarkable book for me, I think I'd like to reread at some point, to see what else I can take from it. Next time around I think reading a physical copy might be a good choice. I'm in the minority as someone who really enjoyed Amber Benson's performance, minus a couple of character voices. But the story was layered enough that I know I could give it better attention reading it myself.I think I would be choosy about who I'd recommend Middlegame to, but I can see why it has a really strong fanbase.
2784171496	What do I want?A sequel of this bookWhen do I want it?'bout 5 minutes ago!
2794721222	“Words can be whispered bullet-quick when no one’s looking, and words don’t leave blood or bruises behind. Words disappear without a trace. That’s what makes them so powerful. That’s what makes them so important.That’s what makes them hurt so much.”Seanan McGuire’s stories are like the Tardis. There is just so much within! More than you could ever imagine. Deceptively so. Being such a huge fan of McGuire’s, you would think I would learn my lesson and stop finding myself surprised after each book. Yet I can’t. Because she continuously ups the game. Just when I think I’ve read the best thing she has ever written.. she tops it. Just when it seems like this character is the most complex.. here comes Roger and Dodger. Just when this plot seems the most interesting, captivating, brutal.. OH HEY MIDDLEGAME!! Seanan McGuire is a glorious weaver of words and we are so incredibly lucky to have her talent out there for us all to absorb.This was one of my most anticipated reads of 2019 and HOLY FORKING SHIRTBALLS!!! It completely blew me away. It felt like an extension of the Wayward Children universe, yet something entirely all it’s own and I AM HERE ALL DAMN DAY FOR IT!!!“Everything is perfect. Everything is doomed.”Middlegame is about two undeniably gifted children. Roger and Dodger.Roger Middleton is from Massachusetts. He adores reading, English class, words.. he loves language with everything that he has. He struggles with math, however (relatable af!)Dodger Cheswich lives in California. She’s a brilliant mathematician and idolizes Ian Malcolm. Numbers are her greatest passion. She has trouble with spelling and isn’t much into reading.“His genius and hers were never the same.”One day while Roger is working on a multiplication worksheet, he hears a voice from out of nowhere. A girls voice. Dodger. The two have a radical connection. One that appears impossible to explain. They begin to help each other out with their respective classes that they have difficulty in.Roger and Dodger are imaginary friends. Mental companions. Quantum entangled.. creations, if you will. They have the same eyes. They find out that they were both part of closed adoptions. They are identical, but not. Twins.. of sorts.Their lives intersect throughout the years, until they eventually meet at the Berkeley campus.James Reed is an alchemist. He was created by Asphodel Baker, the greatest alchemist of her time. He dresses like a Ray Bradbury character and is just as intriguing as one. Reed is the puppet master of this story. He controls many people as pawns in his game of chess.He also made the twins.I cannot begin to express just how much I fucking adored this book! I’m not exaggerating when I say that I felt every word within these pages. From the moment I opened it for the first time until long after having finished.. this story not only completely captured my imagination, but my whole entire soul. It bled into me, the way that Dodger bleeds into Roger. The most exquisite gut-punch.“The improbable road spools onward, and outward, and the journey continues from here.”Alternate timelines, manifestations, Hands of Glory, alchemy, Doctrine of Ethos and immortality and and and GODDAMN. McGuire provides a clinic in storytelling with Middlegame. This is her magnum opus (so far!) It’s magical.. truly magical. I could not love it more!!(Massive thanks to Tor.com Publishing for sending me a copy to gush & flail over!)**The quotes above were taken from an ARC & are subject to change upon publication**
3094936244	I feel like this is going to be really hard for me to review, because while on the one hand I think I enjoyed my time reading this and felt sucked into a really unique story, I still couldn't tell you what that story actually is. Normally a story brimming with science and fantasy would be right up my street. The time travel, the logic, it all calls to me. But here I just found myself confused for the whole plot. A plot where not much happens other than two people finding and then running away from each other at a really slow pace. It also didn't help that the story moves between timelines, adding to the confusion. Honestly, I just wanted someone, literally anyone, to explain what was going on. I like stories that explicitly spell out the storyline, going into detail about the world and lore. This doesn't do that at all, letting the reader flounder all the way to the end. Also Roger and Dodger. I don't feel like I ever got to really understand much about them. They're put on a pedestal, deemed higher beings and manifestations of the universe, but really beyond a love of maths and languages I don't think the reader gets to see anything beyond this. There's just no emotion behind the eyes for me.I know I'm being pretty negative, but honestly I still don't think I can rate this lower than a 3. That overall premise is just so intriguing and interesting and is like nothing I've ever read before. I just wish it had explained things a bit more for my teeny tiny brain.
2635704347	W.O.W! This lead me down a path that was magical, confusing, complex and filled with characters that I couldn’t help but love all their eccentricities and flaws. This book is one wherein the explanation lies in the ending and would serve so well as a reread ✨
2825499699	2.5 rounded up. I never thought I’d be giving Seanan McGuire such a low rating. At 70% I decide to speed read to the end. It was so slow. Definitely a case of the idea being better than the execution.
3308280576	This was the weirdest book I've ever read. The weirdest and yet, I couldn't get enough of it. I was blown away by the concept, by the storytelling, the writing style. It's deeply cerebral, emotional, and wildly imaginative. I'm not surprised this book is up for a Hugo Award.The book starts with the end. Then jumps to the very beginning. Then you finally meet Roger and Dodger and their story is how they connect to the beginning and how they dictate the end.Lots of nuance in the story as well. I started the book off reading, but then switched to the audiobook only to deeply regret that decision. I had to go back and reread passages I already listened to because I missed tiny details that help with the rest of the story. You also need to give this book time. There's a lot of concepts in this book that don't have a lot of explanation until the end.Sadly, I think this is the only negative thing I can say about this book and why folks will put this book down. The concepts are hard to understand and you really end up embracing them more than understanding them. Yep, just going with it was the phrase I kept using while I read. The beginnings are vague and unfolds like layers of an onion as you read. I even took time to reread earlier passages because I finally got a clue as to what it could mean later on. You really are taken on this crazy ride, but you need to pay attention. The story answers all your questions and definitely make more sense as you go along, but if you're not into that then you might not like this book.The good thing is you don't need full understanding to get this novel. There's a lot of concepts in this book with multiple story lines that are happening at the same time and waiting to finally converge. But, there's story here too. You need to be human, that's for sure. You need to have empathy for a pair of twins who have seen too many horrific things in their life to call it easy. You need to understand that in this little world; this existence within existence is starting to unravel and Roger and Dodger are at the center of it. There is definitely story there, but it requires patience in your reading and acceptance of some of the bigger ideas.For all intents and purposes, Roger and Dodger are just your average kids. They live on opposite ends of the country and never met each other. One day, Roger was in the middle of doing his math homework when a voice in his head starts giving him the answers. It turns out to be Dodger, a twin sister he didn't know he had that's speaking to him telepathically. When Roger and Dodger find each other, they hope that this is the start of a beautiful friendship.However, they aren't supposed to meet. Not yet. They're constantly watched to make sure they don't meet too early. They need time to develop their unique talents. For Dodger, it's math. For Roger, it's language. If they meet too soon, then they won't be able to reach the Impossible City. If they never manifest their powers, then James Reed, who created them, will destroy them and start over. Because Roger and Dodger aren't just twins who have telepathic powers. They are the human embodiment of the Doctrine of Ethos; a theory created by the most famous alchemist Asphodel Baker embedded into a children's story called "Over the Woodward Wall" for the world to understand her theory. And James Reed needs them to take over the world.So they are constantly torn apart by their parents, by authority who tell them to, by the various spies that work for James Reed. They are met with life-threatening danger, but they are able to find allies. And every time they are pulled apart, you can see how it hurts them. You can see how it makes so much sense for them to be together, but this life refuses to keep them together. It really humanizes them to the reader and despite the fact that they were created in some lab by some crazy dude who believes he can take over the world, you root for them. You hope that they get out of this alive and they actually get to spend their life together. Because you see throughout the story how much they need each other and you see how important it is for them to finally have a chance at a real life with a real family.I absolutely loved this story because of it. I spent a lot of time googling stuff from what alchemy is to the Doctrine of Ethos (that's real!). I spent a moment sitting in my chair with a mile-long stare trying to understand the story and the concepts within it and I loved that it made me think like this despite it being completely fiction. And I loved Roger and Dodger and they need to be protected at all costs. I will most definitely be rereading this one because this story is just so good not to read again.Also, google Hand of Glory after you're done. The photos are straight from a horror story.
2087457472	A really unique book about alchemy, magic, and the power of math and language. I loved the showcasing of the brother/sister relationship, and the way the intensity of emotion that often accompanies it was portrayed.This tone and feel of the book reminded me so much of McGuire's Wayward Children series (in fact, Roger and Dodger are at one point referred to as such). I think if you liked those stories, with their fairytale structure and blurred reality, you might like this one as well.It is quite a long and dense read, so probably best enjoyed when you have the time needed to devote to it.
5977850649	Wow. What a book. I struggled to put it down for the holidays and was itching to jump back in. I'm a little at a loss for what to say about it.The writing is absolutely gorgeous. The characters and storytelling are so captivating and commanding. The concept is genius. I loved every second of this urban science fantasy, and if you like urban fantasy stories with kickass magic and beautiful science fiction, I think you will too.Might start a Seanan McGuire marathon, idk. But I'm so glad I picked up this book on a whim. I'm a fan for life. Just wow.
3016834810	WOWEEEE. this is more than a five stars. its a new favourite like,,,, more than a favourite. i cant really put into words how amazing this book is.https://youtu.be/2AozVNU57XU
3058347976	What are the rules of this book? Are there any rules? This book straight up felt like it was from the nonsensical worlds mentioned in Wayward Children.If I were describe this book in one word I'd say frustrating. There is so much back and forth with timelines, lots of repetition on maths and words and the doctrine. But at the end of the day I don't think it added much to the plot; cause I still have no idea why Reed was doing what he was doing. It sort of starts making sense by the end but then it's just too little too late.I felt absolutely no emotional connection to any of the characters since they felt way more like caricatures; a girl with maths, a boy with words and the monologuing mysterious villain. I have to add I absolutely hated the audio-book; it was terrible and just made me hate this book even more.I can see that most people who read this loved it; so I accept that maybe it just wasn't my cup of tea.CW: graphic suicide scene._______________________________________When the GR Choice Awards 2019 nominees came out I chose to read a book from a few genres.Fantasy: MiddlegameScience Fiction: RecursionFiction: Normal PeopleMystery and Thriller: My Sister, the Serial Killer_______________________________________I'm not sure what I think of this book right now. It was longer and more confusing than I had expected.. full RTC
3082496774	This disappointed me way more than I ever expected it to.Firstly..the first third of the book doesn’t make any sense. At all. Zilch. Nada. I couldn’t figure out the plot and I don’t know if I’m too dumb or the plot was too well hidden for me to spot it. But it made this novel so hard to get in to until things finally started happening about half way. Which is way to long in my opinion for a book to get going.Secondly, nothing was really explained that well? We as the reader are just supposed to accept the worlds and the end goal and nothing is really given to us as a reward for making it that way in the story.Thirdly, the ending was rushed. You can’t convince me otherwise. You’re gonna take over 200 pages to get the story started then rush the ending in 2 chapters? I don’t enjoy that as a reader when I feel like I’m being pushed out the metaphorical door to get the book done.Honestly the plot is this: two people, destined to do something to the world..and that’s it. It’s unexplainable.As always I enjoyed McGuire’s writing style but this is easily my least favourite novel of theirs.
3305999526	I feel underwhelmed about this book sadly, this is my 1st Seanan McGuire book and probably will be my lastThe idea about twin people tried to forged a way to open The Impossible City, one is math genius one and the other one is word genius and they can talk through quantum entanglement is really cool but i found the way the book tried to built the idea and wordbuilding is really vague, i tried so hard to wrap up my mind but i seem like always confused with it 😅😅 it's a weird book .. a mixed between Magical realism, Sci Fic and Fantasy I also felt not care about the characters Roger and Dodger or any other side characters It's all around such a weird nonsense reading experience for me, not enjoying this one sadly Trigger warning: some gory scenes, suicide attempt
4074692590	Che bomba💣💣💣
6421408793	2.5⭐️Such a cool concept for a book, but was confused for like half of it… probably because I listened to it. This definitely isn’t one to listen to!Also, it felt a little slow, but picked up for the last 10%. I really probably would have enjoyed it more if I didn’t listen, and that’s my fault! I won’t be continuing this series, but I’ve heard amazing things about the authors other series! I might give them a try!
3208931507	"She doesn’t tell people things when she doesn’t feel she needs to. She keeps her secrets close to her chest. That’s how she survives in a world where she’s so much smarter than she should be, and so much more delicate than she seems."🇮🇹⬇️Ecco Dodger, appassionata di numeri, ed ecco Roger, lui, a differenza di sua sorella, conosce il significato di ogni parola esistente. Non sono del tutto umani e non sono del tutto dei mostri, anche se potrebbero diventarlo. Sono esperimenti, destinati sin dalla nascita a incarnare la Dottrina, destinati a morire, se necessario. Middlegame non è un libro semplice, non è una storia che tutti potrebbero apprezzare, è complesso, tedioso, a volte confusionario, ma affascinante e spesso molto triste. Per quanto mi riguarda rientra nei libri migliori di quest’anno, aggiudicandosi anche un posto sullo scaffale dei miei preferiti. Middlegame racconta la storia complessa di due bambini, due gemelli, dalle doti sovrumane che un giorno, o infiniti giorni, stabiliscono un legame quantico. Le loro menti entrano in contatto e l’uno diventa l’amico immaginario dell’altra. Fino a quando non sono costretti a separarsi per poi incontrarsi molti anni dopo e così in continuazione. Vediamo Roger e Dodger crescere, impariamo a conoscerli e ad amarli. Roger, nonostante le difficoltà, è espansivo e caratterialmente forte, il contrario di Dodger. Lei è brillante, ma tutti trovano strano il suo legame con la matematica, in fin dei conti è roba da maschi (ci troviamo negli anni 90). Dodger, quindi, cresce sola, con la convinzione che il suo dono sia una maledizione, che sarebbe tutto più semplice se lei non esistesse. Non è debole, solo fragile, forse troppo. Roger e Dodger sono i due punti di vista che seguiamo ed è con loro che veniamo catapultati verso la Città impossibile, verso un mondo fatto di alchimia e paradossi temporali, verso mille finali dove Dodger è in fin di vita, dove le loro vite continuano ad interrompersi per poi riprendersi, come legate da fili invisibili mai troppo distanti tra loro. Middlegame, oltre ad avere elementi nuovi che personalmente non ho mai incontrato in nessun altro libro, è riuscito a trattare moltissime tematiche tra cui l’emarginazione sociale, l’autolesionismo, la depressione, ed ha saputo farlo con delicatezza, ma senza mai indorare la pillola. Infine, uno dei pilastri della storia è proprio il legame fraterno tra i due protagonisti, l’amore che li lega è così forte da sfidare qualsiasi legge fisica, così potente da sfidare persino il loro creatore, la Dottrina e il suo folle piano. Middlegame mi ha fatta piangere più volte, mi ha fatta inorridire per la crudeltà con cui spesso si crea e si uccide, mi ha fatta sorridere per quei pochi momenti di serenità e per un finale che è perfetto così. Se amate le storie complesse, l’alchimia, i salti temporali, The umbrella Academy e il mago di Oz probabilmente amerete anche Middlegame.Voto: 4.5 🌟🇬🇧⬇️Middlegame is not a simple book, it is not a story that everyone could appreciate.It is complex, tedious, sometimes confusing, but fascinating and often very sad. As far as I'm concerned, it's one of the best books of this year. Middlegame tells the complex story of two children, twins, with superhuman gifts who one day, or countless days, establish a quantum bond. Their minds come into contact and one becomes the imaginary friend of the other. Until they are forced to separate and then meet many years later and so on and on. We see Roger and Dodger grow up, we learn to know and love them. Roger, despite the difficulties, is outgoing and temperamentally strong, the opposite of Dodger. She is brilliant, but everyone finds strange her connection with mathematics, after all it is male stuff (we are in the 90s). Dodger, therefore, grows up alone, with the belief that her gift is a curse, that everything would be simpler if she didn't exist. It is not weak, just fragile, perhaps too much. Roger and Dodger are the two points of view we follow and it is with them that we are catapulted towards the Impossible City, towards a world made of alchemy and temporal paradoxes, towards a thousand endings where Dodger is dying, where their lives continue to interrupt and then recover, as if tied by invisible threads never too far from each other. Middlegame made me cry several times, it horrified me at the cruelty with which one often creates and kills, it made me smile for those few moments of serenity and for an ending that is so perfect. If you love complex stories, alchemy, time jumps, The umbrella Academy and the Wizard of Oz you will probably love Middlegame too.Rating: 4.5 stars
3463481014	Middlegame è un romanzo decisamente particolare, qualcosa che non avevo mai letto prima e che mi ha tenuto incollato alle pagine con la curiosità di scoprire cosa sarebbe successo a Roger e Dodger.Roger e Dodger sono i nostri due protagonisti; due ragazzi all’apparenza normali, due geni incompresi che non sanno di essere fratelli gemelli.Separati alla nascita sono stati cresciuti da due famiglie diverse, lontani e all’oscuro dell’esistenza l’uno dell’altra.Questo fino a quando un misterioso legame mentale non comincia a unirli sempre di più!Roger ama le parole, la lingua, i libri, ogni cosa che riguarda quest’ambito per lui ha un fascino incredibile.Dodger, all’opposto, è una nerd della matematica e della scienza, una ragazza tremendamente sola e incompresa.Roger e Dodger sono stati creati in laboratori da un pericoloso e spietato alchimista di nome Reed, un uomo senza scrupoli che farà di tutto per portare a compimento i suoi piano utilizzando le capacità quasi divine di Roger e Dodger.La cosa che ho apprezzato di più di questo romanzo sono stati proprio i nostri protagonisti, la caratterizzazione e la psicologia di Roger e Dodger per me è impeccabile e si riesce ad entrare in forte empatia con loro.Complice anche l’averli conosciuti come due bambini soli e incapaci di comprendere ciò che li circonda.Anche i nostri antagonisti sono davvero interessanti e ben costruiti; crudeli e senza rimorsi.Nonostante per me sia un libro estremamente valido e interessante ci sono anche dei difetti che non possono essere trascurati.In particolare la narrazione nella seconda parte del libro diventa molto più lenta, complice anche le continue ripetizioni, una sorta di recap di quello che è successo prima che sembrano quasi spiegoni inutili di cose che conosciamo già!I poi dialoghi sono spesso prolissi e artificiosi e anche i personaggi a lungo andare cominciano a soffrire di questi difetti.Nonostante questo per me Middlegame è un libro meraviglioso, complice anche la prosa della McGuire che in alcuni punto tocca punti quasi poetici.
2639724096	This book is definitely a favourite. I don't really know how to describe it because it is probably the most complicated book I've ever read. But it was a joy to read.
4570352374	This was my first Seanan McGuire book, which is a little unbelievable, both because she writes in genres I love, and because she writes so very prolifically. And I started with a really good one. I'm not against spoilers and frequently spoil myself for things, but I went into this book almost completely unspoiled, even for the premise, and I think that's the way to go. The book is so weird it's almost impossible to really sum up in a blurb anyway. So, how to review without spoiling much of anything? No idea, which is why I've put this review off for three weeks. Bare bones, this is a book about Roger and Dodger, two siblings (twins, separated at birth and adopted by different families) who we follow from about the age of six through adulthood, and the who and what and why of them is revealed slowly across the book. The book is a genre mish-mash that I am hesitant to even try to put into categories, so let's just call it 'speculative,' but it's got elements of fantasy, sci-fi, horror, mystery, and suspense, and the way that we watch Roger and Dodger grow up has a bit of a Dickensian element to it, except our Oliver Twist is twins, and their benefactors are a lot more sinister than Abel Magwitch. Wow, I did not anticipate a Great Expectations reference when I started this review.My only true criticism of the book is that I think the antagonists could have been fleshed out more. But the rest of it was so engaging, it almost doesn't matter, but this is why it's technically a 4.5 star book and not a full five for me.Starting the companion sequel tomorrow. I somehow know even less about it than I did about this one![4.5 stars]
3193232868	“They should have grown up powerless and incomplete, unable to function in the big, terrifying world of people born in the normal way rather than created as metaphors given flesh.”Roger is language, Dodger is math. Dodger is a gun, but Roger is the trigger. Separated at birth and with a continent between them, they must find their way back together to fulfill their destiny.But what if Frankenstein’s monster is too powerful to be contained?“They're ideas who dreamt of being people. and now that they're waking up, it's too late for them to be anything else.”Middlegame is quite an ambitious work with a very large scope. There are places where I feel it could have given us more depth, but considering what it set out to do I feel it was a success. It explores a number of themes including how we treat gifted or prodigy children in our society, indoctrination of children through the power of story, codependency, dichotomy, mental health, and free will vs fate. This is a dark work with a significant amount of violence and gore, and yet it is written with such a level of beauty and humour that it doesn’t feel that way. “Roger never knew there were so many ways to be a math major. The field is enormously divided and subdivided, a fractal web of specializations chasing its own tail into the depths of the course catalog. It’s like peering through the gates of hell. Infinite math classes packed with infinite mathematicians, all of whom would be delighted to explain in great and painful detail exactly why the fact that he gave up as soon as he fulfilled his general math credit requirements was a mistake.”McGuire has a masterful control of the English language and I soaked up her genius use of metaphor on every page. I can understand why this book is polarizing. I think a lot of readers will hate everything about it that I love. But this was exactly my brand of weird and unique and I was entertained from the first word to the very last! TW: graphic violence, gore, dismemberment, murder, attempted suicide*June PBB Book Club Pick*VIDEO REVIEW: https://youtu.be/ndxJEOTxPlEYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | Twitter
2558319379	I DEVOURED this book. Once I got past the interesting intro (The End?) and got my footing, I was off to the races. I'd hoped for a compelling SFF book, but I hadn't expected such a compelling character portrait of the two leads: Roger and Dodger. Yes, yes, the names are silly and had me put the book off for a good long while. Rest assured, McGuire knows those names sound dumb and it all ends up tying back to the story in an entirely organic way. How to describe Middlegame? It's one of those recent SFF books that defies genre conventions: there's some science-y bits that seem like sci-fi, but there's undoubtedly fantasy-like elements mixed in, and more than a dab of slasher-horror. Maybe Gideon the Ninth is its closest relative, but then again, not really. Middlegame doesn't quite fit into a bookshelf ordered by genre and ends up being a reminder that those distinctions are for people selling books, not those reading or writing them. There was lots to love here from great characterization, superb writing of children, and fraught relationships complicated by trauma. It's a blood-drenched fable, a timey-wimey alchemical slurry, and there's oodles foreboding narration, interesting perspective changes, and well-realized settings. For me, after a huge letdown with my last read, this rollicking and fun tale was a cup of hot coffee for my reading game in the final weeks of 2020. You know, I've read SFF books that I've enjoyed more this year on an intellectual level, but I just had a blast and a half with this one. Go into it cold: figuring out what's on the go is most of the novel's charm and knowing much about it will spoil good fun. When this time of year rolls around books like Middlegame are what I find myself reaching for. The ones that let me lose myself in a good yarn. If that's what your in the market for, give it a go!
3310614451	Re-read Update: On re-read I still absolutely adore this book. Its firmly has a spot on my cozy re-read rotation. What I loved: The relationship between Roger and Dodger. It was everything to me and I related so much to it. Growing up I was very much like Dodger and probably only survived happily because of one of my friends so this platonic relationship just really connected with me and I think is the part I love most of this entire story. When I think of the plot and how truly confusing but fun it is I think this story is at its core about this relationship and how they keep connecting despite all the odds against them. I also did personally enjoy the plot but I can see that not being for everyone. Its confusing and non-linear at times with some alchemy concepts that are never completely clear but this never personally bothered me but if any of these are red flags for you, you have been warned. Recommendation: If you like platonic relationships and good representation of children growing up than I think you would enjoy this. If you like the nonsense plot of Library at Mount Char I think you would enjoy this. If you do not like confusing plot and world-building that is not well explained maybe only borrow this one and see how you feel. The first bit was slow for me but once we are with Roger and Dodger I just could not stop reading it.Below I have trigger warnings which may spoil a plot point but I felt it important to have available. Trigger Warnings: Suicide Attempt
3038111734	Well hot damn, consider me floored! This book knocked me flat on my ass, that’s how much it blew my mind. I knew going into it that it was pretty much guaranteed I’d love it, I mean, just read the description! How could you not love something like that?! But I wasn’t expecting to be drawn in so deep to such a dark and beautiful world, it sucked me in and didn’t let go until it had ripped me to shreds. This book is just BEYOND stunning, it’s hard to review it without just completely gushing! It is so gut wrenching and heart breaking and dark and gritty and actually quite terrifying at parts and it just totally consumed me. If there’s a bigger more potent word than love then THAT’S what I felt for this book, it just goes beyond words!
2581900032	HolyFuckingShit.Amazing. Just...how can you even describe this book?! It's so beautiful and twisted and perfectly crafted. I adored every word and let me tell you, reading the book whilst listening to Amber Benson narrate it to you via the audiobook is THE BEST! Best book of the year so far? Could be. Could well be.
