4300582806	Aubrey LaRoux knew she’d stand out at the prestigious Waverly Prep School. Land, rumored to be cursed when it belonged to the Chitimacha, developed a darker history as a sugar mill plantation. Indisputably responsible for the dismal lives and deaths of countless slaves, the historical remains on site presented an unwelcoming atmosphere. Although she’d be one of only a few Black students, the fact that she was there on a Creole scholarship would be well-known and was more concerning. Aubrey had no hopes of making friends, only securing a solid education.As predicted, popular student, Marjorie made sure Aubrey bore the brunt of bullying. Then, Marjorie went missing. The majority of the student body expressed shock and sadness. Aubrey, in her infinite teen-aged wisdom, angrily and emphatically stated delight in Marjorie’s absence, changing her status from student to suspect. Returning to Waverly as a history teacher seemed surreal as Aubrey stepped back onto campus. Unease turned to trepidation when she noticed a Missing poster featuring a face remarkably similar to her own tormentor. Marjorie’s little sister, Lindsey, followed too closely in her sibling’s footsteps. She is missing from Waverly. Insisting that teen-aged girls create drama and run away, Probst, the apathetic headmistress, was determined to run the school “business-as-usual”. Just like when Marjorie disappeared. They all did nothing. But students are bolder and Ms. LaRoux is staff now. Lindsey’s disappearance will not be ignored. It doesn’t hurt that the calm and capable sheriff is quite handsome and intriguing. Even if he seems to be always holding something back.Ms. LaRoux and students are pretty stellar sleuths. They are connecting dots and most assuredly assembling a big picture. Until the first in their group is brutally murdered. The pace of the investigation picks up and becomes a race to solve the mystery before any more lives are lost.Have You Seen Me? grabbed my attention immediately. I stayed totally engaged, sometimes turning pages fast enough for paper-cuts. The timing is impeccable, I just met with “my” students for the first time this school year and this this spot-on, YA-mind-boggling-mystery wherein every character could be a killer is exactly what they were asking for. This review was written by jv poore for Buried Under Books, with huge thanks for the Advance Review Copy to donate to my favorite classroom library.
4128248844	This was my first book to read by this author, but definitely will not be my last. I was hooked from the very first page. This thriller was fast paced and had me on the edge of my seat. The mystery was a cross between And Then There Were None and a teenage slasher flick. I enjoyed the elite boarding school setting. This is the first book of the series and I am looking forward to reading the next installment. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Thank you BookSirens and Vesuvian Books for my ARC.
4061711891	2.5 stars, rounded upWhile this book is a decent mystery, in the end it is very predictable and I was a bit disappointed that it wasn't more engaging for me. I think that this book probably has more appeal for its intended YA audience, because I found myself overthinking many of the actions of the characters, thinking they were very unrealistic.Aubrey LaRoux returns to the high school she attended, Waverly Prep, as a history teacher. Aubrey has a tumultuous history with the school, she was bullied by Marjorie who disappeared and no one knows what happened to her. Some other girls went missing that year as well. One of her former teachers is now the administrator, and when Aubrey steps foot on campus she discovers that another student has gone missing--Lindsay, the sister of Marjorie. A group of students wants to uncover what happened to their friend Lindsay, and they enlist Aubrey to help them investigate.This book has shades of some teen slasher movies sprinkled with a bit of Scooby Doo. As the bodies and disappearances pile up, suspicion is pointed in every direction. I had quite a few problems with the book overall. For as intelligent as Aubrey is (she went to Brown for undergrad) she doesn't act that way with the students. She allows herself to get sucked into things that no professional educator would participate in. There are so many missing students over the years, but none of the parents seem to care or even know, and the security seems very lax. One teacher to supervise 50 girls in a dorm? For all of its shortcomings, this is a well-written book and should appeal to teens looking for a mystery novel. If you can suspend some disbelief, you might enjoy the ride.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.
4156729254	Special thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for a free, electronic ARC of this novel received in exchange for an honest review. Expected publication date: Aug 17, 2021 Aubrey LaRoux is both surprised and excited when she gets offered a position at Waverly Academy, teaching history. Aubrey spent her high school years at the elite academy, and she’s hoping to have a positive impact on its current student body. But there’s a pall over the school, as one of the students, Lindsey Gillett, is missing. Following the disappearance of Lindsey’s sister years ago, and the disappearance of several more students during the 90s, there is definitely a sinister force at play and Aubrey is dedicated to uncover the secrets before someone else disappears. One by one, Aubrey’s students start to disappear and when their bodies are discovered, Aubrey realizes just how far Waverly will go to cover up its secrets. Alexandrea Weis is the author of many novels, but “Have You Seen Me?” is my first experience with the award winning novelist. The setting itself, an elite prep school, has been done (and overdone). In fact, so many terrifyingly grim and horrible things have happened at prep schools in fiction novels that it makes me actually feel lucky I went to public school! Waverly Academy is your standard prep school, with horse stables and a swimming pool, but this one has a dark past related to the Native American feuds over the land itself and the plantation home that serves as the main living quarters for the administrator. There are a group of students that we meet right at the beginning, all of whom are immediately untrustworthy and not that likable but with lead character Aubrey’s help, they start to grow on me. Aubrey herself is charming and endearing to readers, as she struggles with demons from her past while trying to change the future. The ending of this novel was predictable, although Weiss adds several entertaining twists that subtley point the reader in a different direction. Fans of this genre will have a hint of the culprit right from the start, but it is definitely a pulse-pounding ride getting there! “Have You Seen Me?” has a strong lead character, and I loved the eerie grounds of Waverly, even if the plot was a bit derivative. Weis has intrigued me with her writing style, and I am curious enough to check out her other novels!
4312725208	I received a gifted copy of this book to read in exchange for an honest review via Black Crow PR.Have you seen me? is a fantastic thriller set in a private boarding school - Waverly Academy. The story follows Aubrey who was a fellow student there and has landed a teaching job at the school teaching History. As soon as Aubrey arrives, her joy is dampened by the news of a student - Lindsey Gillett, being missing. This throws Aubrey into memories and feelings from the past when a girl went missing at the school during her time there as a student. The missing girl turns out to be the previous missing girls sister. Throw into the mix a further handful of girls who went missing in the 1990s and Aubrey becomes focused on finding out what happened to all the missing girls. Aubrey meets a group of her students who can't be sure they can trust Aubrey at first. They were friends with Lindsey and want to fund out what happened to her. Working together, the group take Aubrey into their folds and working together they go hot on the pursuit of uncovering what has happened and what secrets the prestigious school has to hide. Throw in a hunky Sheriff and this book covers all bases. What I loved about this book was although it was quite predictable it keeps you gripped and itching to find out what would happen next. I also loved how this book had How to get away with murder stroke Scream (slasher movie) vibes.
4075505917	After enjoying Death by the River which Alexandrea co-wrote, when I was asked about this book - I said YES. This book grabbed me for several reasons from the fact it is a YA thriller set in a boarding school environment and also the book has missing persons related to it. Set in an elite boarding school where the wealthy attend amongst the odd scholarship student, over the years students have vanished and are never to be seen again. When teacher Aubrey LaRoux was at Waverley Prep, a girl who bullied her Marjorie disappeared and was never seen again. This was ten years ago. Now ten years later Aubrey has come to teach History and to her surprise, another girl has gone missing - Lindsey who turns out to be Marjorie's sister. Lindsey and her friends were investigating Marjorie's disappearance and the previous three that went missing in the '90s and discovered the identity of the killer. Now the killer is cleaning house and everyone who knows her secret is in trouble. Can Aubrey help solve the crime before any more of her close students are discovered dead? Have you Seen Me? by Alexandrea Weis reminded me of the late '90s / early 2000's slasher films like Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer.
5525575515	BORING!
4225053071	This was a fast paced and entertaining YA mystery. It centers on Aubrey, who takes a role as a teacher at an exclusive prep school where she was a student 10(ish) years ago. A girl has gone missing in an eerily similar manner to previous disappearances, including a girl that bullied Aubrey when she was there as a student. I’m a sucker for a private school horror story and this one didn’t disappoint.Aubrey befriends a group of misfits who were friends with the most recent missing girl. She is able to gain their trust and help them investigate the string of disappearances, along with the help of the local sheriff. Scary things start happening and it’s very clear that someone does not want them looking into this. . The descriptions of the school and surrounding grounds were creepy and convincing and I enjoyed reading about them. While the story itself was a tad predictable, I did waver in my guess about who the villain was a couple times, and even though my initial assumption was right, the reasoning behind it was a twist. All in all, a fun young adult read for those who like horror and mystery books and a good old prep school secret. Thanks to Netgalley for providing me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
4126306354	Waverly High is infamous for a series of disappearances in previous years. Now, another student named Lindsey Gillett is missing, and the esteemed school finds itself under scrutiny once again. Aubrey LaRoux is a former student at Waverly who has been invited back to fill in as a history teacher. Aubrey is eager to return and impact the school for the better, but she finds that that is much more difficult than she thought. Five of Lindsey's closest friends are determined to solve Lindsey's disappearance, and they rope Aubrey into helping them. What Aubrey hoped would be an ordinary teaching position turns into something more dangerous than she could ever imagine.I was very excited going into this book. As a history major, I really liked the historical element Alexandrea Weis added into the story, and the plot seemed to be quite intriguing. At first, I was a bit confused. The story is told primarily from Aubrey's point of view, but occasionally it shifts to the students' view in order to provide more information. I think it would have been better if it had been told solely from Aubrey's point of view so that it would not be so confusing.I really loved the romance in this book. (view spoiler)[At first, I was not entirely sure if I liked Mason or not, but I loved watching Aubrey slowly fall for him despite the tragedies. I also loved how her students picked up on it and would make comments about him to Aubrey in order to get a reaction out of her. (hide spoiler)]The story did seem to drag in parts, especially in the middle of the book, but overall it did a great job of capturing my attention. Once the plot started moving more, I was hooked. The only thing that made me really drop to a four-star review is that I could guess who the suspect was about halfway through the book. I had it narrowed down to two, but I was able to figure out who did it before it was revealed. Overall, it was a great YA mystery/thriller that I highly recommend!I received an ARC of this book from the author and BookSirens in exchange for an honest review.
4059087162	Alexandrea Weis is a master of thriller. Have you Seen Me grips you from the beginning, and it was just as intense and intriguing as Death by the River. If you like to read suspenseful stories with lots of mystery, and twist, look no further.
4134297180	I received an advance review copy for free, and I am leaving this review voluntarily. Thank you Booksirens.I was on the waiting list for this book for a few weeks when I was finally chosen and boy was it worth the wait.This is a classic mystery story with a little bit of a teen slasher and romance thrown in there. I literally could not stop reading it and thought for sure I knew who the killer was only to discover I was wrong. The twist ending is something I did not see coming.Aubrey LaRoux is a woman who once attended Waverly Prep school. While she was attending the school as a teen, a fellow student went missing, as well as several students from the 90's. She's back at the school, this time as a history teacher. She's immediately drawn in by some of the students who are investigating the recent disappearance of a girl named, Lindsey. One by one the students she's helping start dying and she's now in a race against time to uncover the truth of the school and find the murderer. I really enjoyed this story. At its core, its a murder mystery. I love a good murder mystery and even better is one that is action packed and keeps you guessing until the very end. Its also suspenseful and has a little romance in it that revolved around the teacher, Aubrey and the town sheriff Mason. I'm a sucker for a happy ending and this one did not disappoint. I really liked that it takes place in a real place, Louisiana. It brings things to life especially since I've been to Louisiana and I know what its like there. All together I felt this was a really good story and it even kind of ends on a cliff hanger. I could definitely see a sequel, Id like to see what happens with Aubrey and Mason and what happens to the school. I will definitely be looking for more from this author.
4177191291	A deliciously disturbing whodunnit filled with twists and turns that will appeal to young adults and seasoned mystery fans alike. Weis is fast becoming the new queen of the Southern murder mystery.Aubrey LeRoux has returned to Waverly Prep, her old Southern college-prep school, but this time as the new history teacher. Aubrey was prepared for an icy reception from the hardened headmistress, who has not thawed much since Aubrey attended the historic school. What she wasn’t prepared for was discovering that Lindsey Gillett, one of the school’s students, has gone missing.Lindsey is not the first girl to disappear. The headmistress appears unbothered by these mysteries, but tasks Aubrey with keeping track of the girls to avoid unwanted press and to help tamp down any uneasiness on campus.Aubrey organizes a small student investigation team. But when the members start turning up dead across campus, she learns that someone wants to keep the past buried — along with anyone who gets in their way.Weis, co-author of the unputdownable YA thriller Death by the River, doesn’t waste any time sucking us straight into the story. After drawing us into the small town Louisiana atmosphere that she knows so well, she firmly establishes Aubrey as the primary sleuth from the get-go and equips her with the goods to question the establishment and ask the questions no one else will. The novel is filled with illuminating insights into the driving forces of her character (“…Sick over her predicament but knowing she would have to go along. It wasn’t out of fear of discovery, or her students’ strong-arm tactics that motivated her—it was curiosity.”).While the school’s chilly director quips that “it’s the scars that get us in the end,” Aubrey uses those scars as a source of strength, coming into her own as she confronts her past and sheds the insecurities she once felt as a student on scholarship. Along the way, her sharp interactions with students and peers alike continuously ratchet up the tension.Weis doesn’t settle for quiet observations to carry the story. She arms Aubrey with both the chutzpah and the curiosity to shake up the establishment and earn her investigative stripes.
4049658724	Have You Seen Me? Is Alexandrea Weis latest thriller...and it is sure exciting! Lindsey Gillett is missing. When s he’s History teacher, Aubrey LeRoux, organizes a student investigation team, but team members turn up dead. Alexandrea Weis writing brought chilling images to my mind. She weaves the characters through the story line with exact mastery. She also tackled several realistic problems; such as bullying. Have You Seen Me? Is an outstanding thriller. I would love a sequel. I received an arc for free and am leaving my review voluntarily.
4083006034	5 Cranky StarsAre you in the mood for a who done it merged with a teenage slasher flick with a touch of romance? Then this is for you. I was on the edge of my seat trying to figure out who was the murderer was the whole time. When I thought I surely had it figured out I was wrong. This is my second book by this author, and she bases her books in the state of Louisiana. It’s my home state and I loved seeing it in this light. The beauty of it but the nitty gritty of the small towns. Aubrey LaRoux is back at Waverly Prep but this time as a history teacher. Her time as a student here wasn’t the greatest so why would she go back? She’s hoping things have changed but sadly they haven’t. Sara Probst is still at the helm and ruling like a dictator. She only cares about the school’s reputation not the students. Several students have gone missing a few from the nineties and one currently and Aubrey is drawn into helping them by her first period students. Harley, London, Cal, Jenna and Bella make up her ragtag group of students determined to find out this mystery. They all have one thing in common with the current missing girl a secret they chose to keep. It’s now a race against time to figure out who is committing these acts and save themselves from certain death as well. This book is action packed. There isn’t really a lull in the action and no real chance to catch your breath. I really felt for these students. I mean they just wanted to help a friend who brought a unique group together. Wouldn’t you want to help solve your friend’s disappearance if you could? That ending though!! PLOT TWIST. I want to say I seen it coming but I would be wrong. Also, Sheriff Mason. Hello honey! Good book and I’m glad I got a chance to read it!!
3681512212	Have You Seen Me? grabs the reader's interest from the first page. Alexandrea Weis is the master at creating intriguing thriller stories and this book is no different. While it is definitely a YA thriller, I found my self pulled into the story and could not put it down. Aubrey LaRoux returns to the prep school she attended to teach history. Ten years ago Aubrey's nemesis disappeared and was never found. Her history class seems to be made of up an eclectic group of students, one of which disappears soon before Aubrey arrives, and she just happens to be the nemesis's sister. The class tries to solve the mystery of all of the girls who have disappeared over the years with the aim to find their friend, Lindsey. Something evil lurks around Waverly Academy and the secrets go back over a century. Every time there seems to be a break in the case of the missing Lindsey, another issue pops up. Finding the murder is the challenge, and the body count keeps racking up as the students and Aubrey continue their search. Enter the sheriff, Mason, and there is a spark between him and Aubrey. This book checks all my reader boxes: a strong female lead, great characters, a budding romance, intrigue, thriller elements, and a unique setting and storyline. Ms. Weis is one of my favorite authors and I always find her books interesting and intriguing, with a well thought out storyline and great writing. Her characters are well developed and her setting is always somewhere she has direct knowledge of: Louisiana, which happens to be one of my favorite areas of the country. If you like smart writing, great characters, an engrossing plot, and a thrilling read, I highly recommend this book. I'm hoping there is a followup coming because I'm sure Waverly Academy has many more secrets.
3987283101	Anxious for a fresh start and relieved at the opportunity to exorcise demons from her past, Aubrey LaRoux returns to Waverly Preparatory School, her Alma Mater in the reverse role as a teacher rather than a student. Not much has changed she notices by the parking lot full of BMWs as well as the imposing presence of Head Mistress Sara Probst. There was also a situation of another missing student from the campus, the sister of a girl who supposedly ran away when Aubrey was a student here. As Aubrey settles into her new life, her students become increasingly curious about her connection to the mysterious disappearance of their new teacher’s former classmate. When students once again begin disappearing, Aubrey finds herself in the center of suspicion.Have You Seen Me? By Alexandrea Weis is a fast-paced tale of smoke and mirrors that successfully sucks in the reader and doesn’t let go until the turning of the final page. Strong personalities and believable character traits add to a closely-knit storyline. As the main character works toward gaining her student’s trust, she painfully fortifies a necessary backbone in coping with past fears and insecurities. The setting of Waverly Preparatory School fits its description of upper-class private education and allows for a dark atmosphere that complements the story’s overall mood. Vivid descriptions and explicit crime scenes are evident and probably not appropriate for young and/or impressionable readers. Alexandrea Weis allows for the possibility of a sequel in her unexpected twist at the end. Fun read.
4078582203	Aubrey LaRoux is returning to Waverly Prep School as a history teacher 10 years after she was a student there, where the stern and formidable Ms. Sara Probst, still the Headmistress, welcomes her. The year Aubrey left, Margery, a girl who bullied her, went missing. Along with Margery, there were 3 other girls who went missing in the past, and now another student, Lindsey, was missing. No one had ever discovered what had happened to the missing students. As Aubrey meets with her first class, much smaller than expected, the five students question her about Margery’s disappearance, and convince her to help them search for clues to find Lindsey. As Aubrey gets to know the students, they talk her into taking a field trip to the forbidden old battleground. But when this group of students start to disappear or die, one by one, Aubrey decides to involve the police, sharing what the students have told her. This is a rather eerie story, with intense action, and a totally unexpected ending! I really like Aubrey and the courage she displays trying to get to the bottom of what’s happening! I received a free advance copy of the book from Book Sirens, and write this review voluntarily.
4060881701	Aubrey LaRoux is a new history teacher at Waverly High. A student vanishes just before her first day. After her students pressure her into investigating into the disappearance of Lindsey Gillet, students end up dead on campus. Their deaths are all connected to a secret that threaten the school.I really enjoyed this one. The pacing was great and there was enough suspense to keep me interested. The characters were well written and interesting. The only small issue I had was that in some places there was more telling than showing. However, there were also places in the book that were excellently written and described. I would like to thank Vesuvian Books for providing me with an ARC.
4129682830	I adore this author, I havnt picked up one of her books in a while, but this one spoke to me! The story inside just just brilliant. With every page turned I was pulling out my hair with such anxiety NEEDING to know who was the killer! I wish this was a movie cause it’s right up my alley!
3981407210	Another hit!!! So much suspense, mystery, and twists. Will keep you guessing!
4193129164	Originally published on The Nerd Daily | Review by Catherine LoweReminiscent of Lois Duncan, avid readers of suspense will find a thrill in Alexandrea Weis’s slasher novel Have You Seen Me? [Vesuvian Books, August 17, 2021]. From unreliable characters to various twists and turns, Have You Seen Me? keeps readers turning the pages, questioning everything until the very end.In Have You Seen Me?, Aubrey LaRoux has just accepted a teaching position at her former high school, Waverly Prep. Having been relentlessly bullied during her years at Waverly, Aubrey is conflicted about returning to campus—even as a member of faculty. Her apprehension turns to dread when she sees a missing person poster of student Lindsey Gillett. History is now not just Aubrey’s subject, but, worse, seems to be repeating itself: Two girls went missing from Waverly Prep in the 1990s and another—Lindsey’s sister—disappeared while Aubrey was in school there. When a small group of Aubrey’s students convince her to investigate the unsolved cases of the missing girls, the secrets she learns of Waverly’s past will put a target on their backs.Read the FULL REVIEW on The Nerd Daily
4159148686	Definitely a solid YA mystery thriller that will keep you guessing who is our killer on the loose.Waverly High is infamous for a series of disappearances in previous years. Now, another student named Lindsey Gillett is missing, and the esteemed school finds itself under scrutiny once again. Aubrey LaRoux is a former student at Waverly who has been invited back to fill in as a history teacher.However when Aubrey starts her new job she and her students will start investigating the missing girls and the deeper they dig, the more they are putting themselves in danger. One by one the students will start appearing dead. We are running against time to catch the killer.A gripping whodunnit story with many interesting characters that will take you through the history of the school and the background of each character while revealing who is behind the missing girls and the killings.
4182574295	Thank you to NetGalley, Alexandrea Weis and Vesuvius Books for the free e-book in exchange for an honest review.I love novels about private boarding schools and this one is no different! The beginning may be a bit slow, but it really sets up the entire novel for the faster pace. There are a lot of characters and I really enjoyed most of them and some of them are just perfect to hate. There were parts of this novel that were like a teen slasher movie and I LOVED it. I loved the gruesome but unique nature of some of the deaths and it really kept me on my toes. The ending of this book was awesome and I really figured who was doing the killing, but the other really makes you second guess yourself over and over. I would definitely recommend if you enjoyed novels like A Good Girls Guide to Murder.
4184293518	This is my first read by this author but won't be my last! The book is fast-paced and full of all the twists and turns of a well-written thriller. I was hooked from the beginning and kept me guessing to the end.The characters are well developed and believable. Each character with their own backstories added depth to the story and helped me understand how they approached the world. I enjoyed the elite boarding school aspect of the plot and the level of detail. I look forward to the next book in the series.I received an advance review copy for free, and I am leaving this review voluntarily. Thank you Booksirens.
4092865675	I received an advance review copy for free, and I am leaving this review voluntarily. I really enjoyed this novel. The mystery was compelling and interesting. There were plenty of possible solutions, which kept me guessing until the last moment. I found myself wishing for more background information, but that's just me. The plot all flowed together quite nicely. We got information as the characters did, and that just added to the mystery. If you like novels by Riley Sager and stories set at elite prep schools, you will probably enjoy this story.
4131981607	2.5 stars. This book dragged and it was only 248 pages. This is a YA novel that focussed on the perspective of an adult teacher. I’ve never read a YA with a main character that is an adult. Anyway, one of the deaths in this genuinely rattled me which I liked but besides that I was disappointed :( I wanted more dark academia and the reveals were not shocking.
4171306508	HAVE YOU SEEN ME? by Alexandrea Weis is a contemporary, young adult, mystery/murder thriller focusing on the investigation and search for a number of missing girls who attended Waverly Prepatory school in Louisiana.Told from several third person perspectives including former student turned history teacher Aubrey LaRoux, HAVE YOU SEEN ME? follows the search for the truth. Upon her arrival, two months into the new school year, history teacher Aubrey LaRoux discovers a young female student is missing, the step-sister of another young woman who went missing ten years earlier, when Aubrey was a student attending Waverly High. Aubrey is about to find herself the target of a number of students believing she is the guilty party, a target that is about to become involved in the search for the truth. As the missing and dead begin to pile up, Aubrey and several of her first period students, begin an investigation of their own, only to find themselves disappearing, one student at a time. HAVE YOU SEEN ME? reads like a Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys murder mystery with overtones of teenage slasher movies including Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer. As per the requisite plot points, the teens and their teacher begin to uncover the clues, and the long buried secrets of Waverly High, but the TSTL attitudes threatens everyone involved. One by one, each of the students involved in the investigation disappears and die, leaving Aubrey and one final student to uncover the truth.We are introduced to sheriff Mason Dubois, Headmistress Sara Probst, groundskeeper Mr. Samuel, as well as a number of students including Lindsey Gillett.HAVE YOU SEEN ME? is a haunting story of power, control, betrayal and vengeance; a suspenseful tale of secrets, lies, and obsession dating back close to twenty-five years. The premise is edgy but predictable; the characters are inquisitive, energetic and impassioned. HAVE YOU SEEN ME? ends on a bit of a cliff hanger-you have been warned.www.thereadingcafe.com
4232421751	Another hit book by Alexandrea Weis! I’ve always been a huge fan of her books. Especially the ones based in Louisiana and she always gets the locations and geography right. The whole book your guessing who did it, and she’s so good at throwing you off the trail of who it really is. I do have to say do not get attached to any characters😂😂
4135924760	Excuse my dissenting opinion. I so wanted to love this book, but I didn’t.All the right parts are here. We have a remote boarding school, a clique of spoiled rich kids, a new teacher who was once a bullied student, and murder. I was all in.But nothing worked for me.First, you have to be willing to suspend all disbelief. Toss realism out the window immediately. In general terms: Aubrey all too willingly invites teenagers to help her investigate murder. No other teachers seem to exist in this school. No security exists, either. And parents are nowhere to be found, apparently not in the least concerned that kids are being murdered on campus.Then we have the instalove romance, happening in the midst of chaos and tragedy, which feels all wrong.The plot is predictable. The person responsible for the murders is a no-brainer. No surprises.And, so, definitely not for me.This is just my opinion, though. Other early reviewers feel differently, as you might. So give it a try if the premise intrigues you.*I received an eARC from the publisher.*
4151468166	Aubry gets a job teaching history at the private boarding school she attended in high school. A student went missing while she was a student. On her first day of work, she discovers another student has gone missing, and this student is the sister of the girl who disappeared 10 years ago. A group of students manipulate the class roster and convince Aubry to help solve the case.Aubry is a good teacher who genuinely cares about her students. The headmistress only cares about the schools reputation and doesn't like Aubrys attempts at bonding with her students.Aubry and her group of students investigate the disappearances. We follow them as they find clues and try to solve the disappearances.I enjoyed this book. I read it in one day. It was hard to out down. The book was exciting and kept me on the edge of my seat wondering what would happen next.*I am voluntarily leaving an honest review after receiving a free copy of this book*
3635430785	Thriller/Mystery books are not usually my go to choices, but I was gifted an early copy for review! It was really well done and I was hooked pretty early! It was well paced and the characters were well written! The mystery aspect was handled really well and kept me guessing! The only thing that gave me pause was the YA classification. While it takes place in a school and some characters are teens, the main character is a twenty something teacher. Overall this was a fun read and I would recommend it to readers!!
3693854398	A very atmospheric and chilling whodunit meets 1980s slasher. Well-written and fast paced, this novel is character-driven with plenty of mystery and its share of horror that will keep you turning pages well into the night wondering who will survive. Though Have You Seen Me? is a standalone, contained story, the door is left open for more. I can't wait to see what happens next on the campus of Waverly Prep!
4204735063	“Lindsey dove into the swirling currents. The cold shocked her just as an undertow pulled her down. She fought to get to the surface. Panic ate up her oxygen as she kicked hard, but she wasn’t gaining any ground. Darkness closed around her, engulfing Lindsey in blinding terror.”When former pupil Aubrey LaRoux returns to Waverly Prep private school as a history teacher 10 years after graduating, it’s her own history she wants to put behind her. Aubrey’s hope is to become the teacher she wished she’d had while she’d been at school. An unhappy student, she had been bullied mercilessly by the popular Marjorie Reynolds. But when Marjorie goes missing in their senior year, Aubrey herself is briefly a suspect. The case isn’t solved, although some believe it was linked to the disappearance of three more girls from the school in the 1990s. But far from putting her past behind her, when Aubrey arrives to take up her post she is immediately confronted with another mystery – Marjorie’s half-sister Lindsey has now also disappeared, 10 years after Marjorie vanished without a trace. Her friends claim she’d uncovered what had happened to her sister…Aided by a team of her students and handsome Sheriff Mason Dubois, Aubrey sets out to get to the bottom of the mystery that has haunted her and is still playing out today. But as the bodies pile up, will she be able to make Waverly give up its secrets in time?“Have You Seen Me?” is the first book in a new series by Alexandrea Weis and is both an intriguing mystery and a page-turning thriller. Waverly Prep, with its history as a sugar plantation and links with the American Civil War, is in some ways a classic, isolated murder mystery setting. But at the same time it is a refreshingly unfamiliar one, with its troubled history casting shadows over the events taking place in its present. While there isn’t a huge cast of suspects in this novel, I found my suspicions shifting multiple times from character to character, right up until the final reveal; always a sign of a good mystery! This is the first book I’ve read by this author, and I shall eagerly await the next instalment of the series. I’d highly recommend “Have You Seen Me?” to mystery and thriller fans alike. “Have You Seen Me?” was released in the UK on 17th August 2021. Many thanks to NetGalley, Vesuvian Books and of course the author for providing an ebook copy.
4188598149	Beautiful Typesetting, Teenage Characters with Agency, and Great Use of Historical SettingA fun read.Do yourself a favor and buy the print version of this book. The typesetting is unique and gorgeous. With an illustrated gate marking each chapter title and an illustrated branch marking each mid-chapter break.I also enjoyed that the teenage characters displayed a great deal of agency with their own personalities, lies, and manipulations.The story of a teacher returning to her former school to try to make things better for students is compelling.I also really enjoyed the setting of the book an old sugar plantation turned private school. I thought the use of the historical buildings for part of the murder mystery/ thriller elements such as the old sugar pots, trapping pit, plantation dock, and the civil war battleground memorial was well done and added a unique flavor to the book.I liked how the plot incorporated the overlapping occupation of their land between the original native American tribe, the sugar plantation, as well as the modern owners of the land.Received a free Copy of the book in exchange for a honest review.
4204235514	What a tale!This book drew me in from the beginning. The descriptions make you feel like you are there, running through the woods with them. This haunting tale is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat!!
4176857555	The first in a new series, 'Have You Seen Her?' is the first book which I have read by Alexandrea Weiss and has a tough job to do-it needs to be a satisfying read as a stand alone, but also create enough interest to bring readers back for more.So, does she succeed?Absolutely!It has a cunning blend of mystery and horror, the characters are not annoying teens and are well rounded characters, and it gave off a teen version of The Secret History vibe that kept me flipping the pages until I put it down with a satisfied sigh (well, more accurately, I thrust it in my teen daughter's face and told her she needed to read it and report back immediately!)I am so grateful to Jamie-Lee at Black Crow PR for my gifted review copy of this Vesuvian Books published hardcover, it is one of those books which has an undeniable hook, and then weaves a web of magic around you as the world becomes a distant sense of white noise whilst you try and work out what happened to Lindsey.The small history class-deliberately created by the 5 pupils closest to Lindsey to get access to Aubrey-the new history teacher who is also an old girl from Waverly High-is determined to trick, cajole, lie and plot to get to the bottom of why their friend has disappeared, even if it puts them at risk.And then, another girl goes missing...The headmistress seems more concerned about protecting the school's reputation than solving the missing girl's disappearance and I couldn't understand why the police weren't involved, until I got that the Sheriff is the closest authority figure they had in New Orleans.I loved that a back woman was the teacher and faced her own experiences of being bullied as well as the horrific past that remains unaddressed in American history-the description of the sugar mill on the school property and how the plantation would have work sent chills down my spine.Adding in the subjugation of the local indigenous population, the creepy atmosphere of the school and Aubrey's determination to uncover the resting place of decades long, missing girls, the subplot of Aubrey's personal quest to find herself, and the responsibility she has to her pupils, and you get a gripping, engaging mystery which does not talk down to the reader or speak as she thinks teens speak .I definitely felt that this was a rounded story with a satisfying conclusion, enough jumps to make you believe in hauntings and atmosphere for days. Cannot wait for more!
4189801824	This was very enjoyable, perfect for fans of YA thrillers. I liked the whole setting, it's very atmospheric and adds a lot to the vibes of the story. The best part perhaps was how descriptive and graphic some parts were (nothing over the top and nothing that YA books shouldn't have), I think it was great and also help expand the reading circle from just YA. The story was very enjoyable overall, I loved the dynamics between characters, a bit unrealistic and unplausible at that, but it kept me guessing and turning the pages till the very end, the only part I didn't like was the romance b/w the two main adult characters, reminded me so much of the 70s chick-flicks lol. The ending was great too, love it when the story isn't over even when it's over. I'd love to see a sequel coming!Thanks so much to Netgalley, author, and publisher for the eARC. All opinions are my own.
4185609253	Note: This review contains NO spoilers🤯 Whoa! This is not the first thriller I have read by Alexandrea Weis. Oh no... So far, I am continually left "at the edge of my seat" with the hairs on my arm standing with chills going down my spine after reading her thrillers. Oh yeah, Have You Seen Me? did just that. I was kept "at the edge my seat" and "bated breath" with each turn of the page. The suspense was like a "slow burn" that kept climbing until the dramatic, chilling twist of an end. Not only that, this story was very reminiscent of those teen slasher movies like Scream, Prom Night, Friday the 13th, and so many more, I have enjoyed watching.I also liked that there was a side romance developing. Yes, there was a bit of some romantic attraction happening with these characters. It was subtle and well-written which did not take away from the main genre of horror/mystery/thriller.But, oh that twist-y cliffhanger of an ending... Ha! I was like "oh dang! I didn't expect that in the ending." The mystery and suspense was so well done that I was surprised at who was who in the story, especially the killer. 😨 Dayum! That end left open for more "adventures" for these characters. And, I do want to read more please.I would definitely recommend this read to fans of this genre and/or teen slasher movies.Reviewer: Jasmine
4180944259	I'm a fan of thrillers and teen slashers so was immediately drawn to this novel after seeing the cover and reading the book description. Aubrey, a former student, returns to the school a year after graduating college, but this time as a new History teacher. Still young herself, she has some emotional scarring from her time at Waverly, and the headmistress warns her not to let the students push her around. The privileged teens often feel entitled to get their way, especially when carrying a chip on their shoulder from a wealthy family. It doesn't help matters that the sister of the girl who disappeared when Aubrey was a student has recently disappeared. Now members of her class want to try and figure out what happened to Lindsey, while obviously hiding something. What happens next is a high body count, and what creative kills they are!And then there is the sheriff, Mason. He is definitely an asset to the story. The author is great at creating atmosphere as well as writing imagery. You can see Waverly Prep and the school grounds. The pacing is terrific, and Weis offers well fleshed out characters that don't usually get developed in these type of stories. Of course you still find yourself yelling at characters who go alone into the woods. I guess people are really that stupid for real, so why not here. They say good fiction imitates life, eh?Highly recommend if you're looking for a fun, fast paced, scary read that gives you Riverdale vibes (so a little tongue in cheek) mixed with teen slasher.
4208711257	This was excellent! I was drawn into the storyline right away. I remember being bullied in high school too, so I can relate. The headmistress was the biggest bully there and it seemed to get worse over the years. Imagine your chance to return to the prep school that you graduated from to teach history, then you find nothing has changed, including the headmistress. I absolutely love that one girl with a promise befriended a small bunch of misfits that nobody wanted as their friends and they even hated each other. This miracle worker had all of them turn into best friends and because of that, they pledged to find her when she disappeared. Completely Awesome! The mystery was fantastic and had you guessing throughout the whole book. The characters were perfect and fit the storyline to a T. Tons of suspense and surprises and this heightened the mystery. A page turner and edge of your seat scenes, I couldn’t put this book down. If you love mystery, young adult, suspense, friendships and a little hint of romance, this book is for you. I absolutely loved this book and look forward to the next one and more from this author.
4143717962	Alexandrea Weis writes a thrilling opening to this YA novel. Not for the faint hearted this book does have some pretty graphic deaths. Keep in mind if choosing this book for the younger end of YA. This book is centred around the mystery of a series of disappearances of high school girls from Waverley Preparatory School ranging from the 90s to present. We are quickly introduced to new teacher and previous student Aubrey LaRoux, and a ragtag group of students who are friends of the most recent missing girl. Aubrey's past at the school has the students suspect she may have been involved in Lindsey's disappearance. It's not long before they manipulate the teacher into investigating. The students start to be killed off one by one by someone close to the school. Ms Weis is very good at writing the teenage characters and causing good tension particularly around the investigation and the deaths of the characters. Some of the joiner scenes, back in the school start to mesh together pretty quickly. Discover a dead body, go back to your room, have a shower and a coffee, rinse and repeat. This was a thoroughly enjoyable mystery Thriller with the perfect amount of potential Red Herrings. I will be on the lookout for future installments in the series. **SPOILER** my biggest gripe with the whole book was the use of the local tribe as a plot device.
4163835678	Thank you NetGalley and Black Spot Books for an e-ARC in exchange for a review.I really enjoyed this book. It had dark academia, mystery, and was incredibly intense. I did predict who the killer was, but I enjoyed all the twists and details it took to get there. I thought each character and their personality was really well thought out and I liked the full circle moment for Aubrey from the beginning to the end of the story. There were also definitely some horror elements which I don't usually do, but I thought they worked well here with the private school setting. The end also left me wanting more! I was hoping for it to continue and I definitely think it could have. I also would have loved to read part of the book in the killer's perspective, but I enjoyed the Aubrey's as well as several of her students thoughts and feelings. There was always something happening here and I never felt bored while reading. I only wanted to know how and why the killer was going to be revealed and I thought that was done really well. Overall I definitely enjoyed this book!
4181620536	I live in Louisiana and picked up this book for a taste of my area. I was surprised by a thoroughly researched novel about Franklin, La and the events along Bayou Teche. I found other reviewers taking issue with the mention of the Chitimacha Tribe bewildering because the author does a great job tying in the indigenous people in the area, acknowledging their part in the history of the river, which is important. The tribes in Louisiana were not treated like others in the US, but became part of the culture, intermarried with Cajuns and locals. Early thriving trade routes are the reason for the founding of several Louisiana cities, including New Orleans. I found this a compelling, well-written story with a touch of history accurately depicted. The horror/slasher element in this novel reminded me of movies such as I Know What You Did Last Summer and Scream. I could easily see this on the small screen and would love to have Louisiana history captured in such an intriguing tale.
4174962613	A creepy, thrilling story that will have you on the edge of your seat from the very beginning. I devoured this book the same day I received it because I knew I would love it. The plot sounded like it was written for me and I enjoyed every second. It leaves you guessing right until the very end and it will make you feel uneasy reading it throughout. I was very excited to learn it is book one in a series and I will definitely be picking up the next book.
4194939101	This book had me hooked from the very beginning and found myself not being able to put it down until I found out how it ended. I had absolutely no idea who the killer was but I did take a guess part way through the book based on only my opinion of the character and it turned out that I was right. I can’t wait to see what this author does next.
4181022736	I loved it!
4156372849	Me by Alexandra Weiss. I was lucky enough to receive an ARC of this from NetGalley and Vesuvian Books in return for an honest review. From the get go, I thoroughly enjoyed reading Have You Seen Me? It was definitely a gripping book, that drew me in from the start and didn't let up until I'd finished reading - it was like a whirlwind.Weiss's writing throughout the book is consistently good, from the phrases chosen to the dialogue between characters and how we would hear the characters thoughts, everything was just well written and flowed perfectly. It was a really easy book to read, and that is no criticism!The one thing that did let this book down slightly for me though was the atmosphere, it struggled to really get going at the start of the book and if it wasn't for the enjoyment I got from the writing and the intrigue that the author built up I would have stopped reading it. That being said, it did get better as we delved further into the story. And it ended up being really tense and eerie, it became quite the atmospheric read. The characters were kind of average for me, sadly. They definitely were intriguing and I found it so easy to warm to Aubrey and later Mason, and eventually the kids (once I got deeper into the book) but they weren't exactly stand out parts of the book. They had enough about them to be interesting and to help progress the story, but not enough for me to say WOW they were amazing. The plot was the real standout of this book for me, though. It was just excellent throughout the whole book, there wasn't a point where it reached excellence and then dipped, it was just so good throughout! Once the initial groundwork was laid, we were pulled in so many different directions and things started to get messy (which I loved). Although, I think my favourite part had to be the ending and how everything seemed to fall into place, like when you put the last piece of the jigsaw in, it just made sense. And while the ending wasn't this big crescendo where it shocked me to my core, it didn't need to be, because the rest of the book was so well written and the plot was so good. It just rounded everything off so cleverly. I can definitely say that Have You Seen Me? was a really enjoyable read that I would love to read again. It's many redeeming qualities with the plot, the writing and the intrigue more than made up for the little things, that I felt, could have been a teeny bit better.
4197995697	It was good, had a few twists and gruesome turns. Will likely read this author again.
4265063976	best book i have read
4135619323	7/27/2021 Was confused enough by the ending to request a fresh copy from NetGalley. If it's approved, I'll let you know if my rating changes. Full review regardless at CriminalElement.com.
4187509566	This YA thriller had me hooked until the very end. First of all, thank you so much to Vesuvian Books and Black Crow PR for sending me this absolutely gorgeous ARC copy of the novel, with a matt finish that felt so soft to the touch, I think it is my favourite ARC I’ve ever received. It even has a stunning illustration for each chapter header, which I love.Secondly, this is the first novel by Alexandrea Weis that I have read, and I can honestly say, it will not be my last. Her writing style is brilliant, she keeps you invested in each character and the story, with an increasing sense of danger as the novel progresses.Think teen slasher set in an elite boarding school; a murder mystery filled with passion, drama and a whole lot of murder. If you know me at all, you’ll know how much I love a horror movie or crime/thriller novel.The main character, Aubrey LaRoux, is a very likeable and relatable character. The bullying she endured during her school years, at the hands of one of the girls that previously went missing, resonated with me, and I really did feel for her immensely.I felt pride in her ability to teach at the school, and the way she handled herself with the students, she really is a brilliantly well-developed character.At one point in the novel, I did suspect that Aubrey could have been involved with the disappearances, but it soon became clear that she was as desperate to help figure out what had happened to the missing girls as the students were.Aubrey is also not afraid to say what she really thinks most of the time, especially with Headmaster Probst, who runs the school in a way that Aubrey does not agree with. When the authorities start having to get involved with each new disappearance creating more danger, Probst no longer seems up to the job.There was also a little bit of romance towards the end of the novel, with the introduction of Sherriff Mason, who is dreamy AF. The students that Aubrey teams up with, Lindsey’s friends, are your typical high school students, lots of drama revolving around them, with lots of secrets and lies. I do think that they each had their hearts in the right place however, as they all just wanted to find their friend, Lindsey.Although I would characterise this novel as a YA one, there were some very gruesome parts throughout! I genuinely couldn’t believe how horrific some of the scenes played out, with one in particular involving a scythe; I think I’ve said enough!I did have a slight inkling about the plot twists that happen towards the end of the novel, but it wasn’t a case of it being obvious in the writing, as Weis throws a couple of spanners in the works, and there were some parts that I did NOT expect at all.All in all, I enjoyed this novel IMMENSELY, and I hope that Weis has a sequel lined up!
4182801308	Aubrey returns to her former school as a teacher at Waverly Preparatory School. A few students don't trust her at first but eventually they bond. Together they try to unravel the mystery of the missing girls who vanished putting themselves in danger.Sheriff Mason and Aubrey's relationship seemed a little off to me but a little so called romance for YA mystery thriller.I had suspicions who the killer might be at the very beginning.I did stay glued to the story. I've enjoyed reading several of this author's other books.Thank you Booksirens and the author for a digital copy. Read and reviewed voluntarily and the opinions expressed here are unbiased and entirely my own.
4157334521	This review is for an ARC copy received from the publisher through NetGalley.Aubrey LeRoux returns to the elite Louisianna private school she attended as a special scholarship student 10 years before, only now it's as an educator instead of a student - the same school where a girl who bullied her went missing while she was there, and where three other girls vanished in the 90s. She arrives just as yet another girl, Lindsey Gillett, has disappeared. Upon discovering this she becomes determined to find out what happened to Lindsey with the help of a group of rag tag students in her class. Until those students begin dying 80s slasher-style.At first the book was pretty solid. Despite being marketed as YA, the writing felt like it was of a higher quality, somewhere between YA and more adult novels. Unfortunately, as the story progressed it became weaker and cheesier, just a little here and there at first, but resoundingly so in the climactic chapters.What I liked: Most of the main characters were reasonably developed, the plot was steadily paced and the mystery was intriguing...until it wasn't.What I didn't like: While the dialogue as a whole wasn't bad, there were too many times it became robotic - " I will be waiting for you ..that is what I will do." (Ok, that's not the exact phrasing, but it's how the verbiage often felt). That's just not how people talk; the drastic over-usage of the word "perhaps" - again, modern people almost never use that term, especially teens. They'd say "maybe" or "could be" or something similar; author's who make assumptions without bothering to google the simple details: the sheriff checks the safety on his Glock 9mm - Glock 9mms don't have a safety catch, the "safety" is "three automatic independently-operating mechanical safeties are built into the fire control system of the pistol"; the sheriff tells Aubrey to keep use the students to keep searching for the killer and make it widely known they are - wait, what??? A. the police would NEVER engage someone they barely know and a bunch of kids to further an investigation B. the police would NEVER deliberately put civilians in potential harm's way, possibly getting them hurt and/or leading to huge lawsuits; the way the story goes from being lightly Scooby-Doo-ish in the beginning to full on wacky plan that gets Daphne kidnapped to a "it was old man Smithers all along" kind of ending.The book was far from terrible; I was enjoying for the most part through about 2/3 of the way. But it just went all downhill fast towards the end. If you want a mystery that's not very heavy reading and are fine turning off your rational mind for some Scooby action, it's a decent book. But after the start promising something a bit more sophisticated, in the end it was disappointing. 2.5/5*
4286501711	Thank you, black crow pr for this advanced physical copy. Lindsey Gillett is missing.And she’s not the first girl at Waverly High to vanish without a trace.To help cope with the tragedy, new history teacher Aubrey LaRoux organizes a student investigation team. But when the project’s key members start turning up dead across campus, Aubrey suspects there’s more going on than anyone is willing to admit.This is the first book I have read by this author, and I’ll be returning! I was hooked from the beginning, love the characters throughout the book and the story was very intriguing. This book is very fast-paced and an entertaining YA mystery. I did however notice the second half of the book to be predictable, but it kept me hooked with the twist and turns and the “who done it?” throughout the book. This story is action-packed and really makes you cheer on the main character and the students. With the twist and turns (that I never saw coming) and the character-driven storyline. I could not put this book down. A brilliant book for anyone who loves a thriller mystery and one to pick up this spooky season.
4113334203	*5 Stars* ARC kindly received via NetGalley for an honest review. This was a really good read, and had very interesting characters. The kept me wondering who or what was going to happen next. I was surprised at the ending, which is always a good thing for me.
4180165107	Well, here we are. I don’t know what to talk about first with this book. Surprise, I’m almost at a loss for words. Almost. To keep it short, Have You Seen Me? is a mystery, a thriller, and a big disappointment.Aubrey LeRoux is a new teacher a Waverly Prep, which happens to be her alma mater of ten years. Aubrey’s time at the prestigious boarding school was marred by the unsolved disappearance of one of her classmates; her return marks the disappearance of another student, who happens to be the younger half-sister of the first girl to go missing. A group of students literally scheme Aubrey into organizing an investigation team, but soon they each start turning up dead, like it’s a slasher movie or something.The plot: It sounds so interesting, which is why I requested the book in the first place. It checks off so many interest boxes for me. Fancy boarding school? Check. Takes place in Louisiana? Check. A cold case mystery intertwined with a current mystery? Check. But did the author manage to put that all together with well-rounded characters and fast pacing to make for a great novel? Nope. Sorry, but it’s time for me to be a little picky.The police investigating the disappearances give Aubrey and the students their blessing to be amateur detectives. Like what? I can suspend my disbelief as a reader but that and solving the murder being an assignment for history class kind of blurs the line of is this ridiculous or should I just go along for the ride? I didn’t go along for the ride. Plus, the pacing was messy. The beginning was incredibly slow and the climax of the story was too short. And I had a really hard time liking any of the characters; Aubrey seemed to not be able to figure out what kind of character she wanted to be and the students never really fell out of their prep school stereotypes.The writing: Honestly, the writing was super clunky, in a pretentious way. There could have not been more descriptors in a sentence if Victor Hugo was writing. Take this quote from chapter two, “The frigid air caressed the dew on Aubrey’s skin, sharpening her wits; she breathed with restraint as the heavy perfume of lavender coming from the blooms inside the front door accosted her nose.” I may be a tad on the dramatic side to bring up Hugo, but anyone in my writing workshops at university would have been roasted for brining in a sentence like that. And most of the novel is that way; I’ll admit it got better during some of the more intense action sequences.It’s not even that reading the exposition was a test of patience, but the dialogue felt like it was written by a completely different person. It’s unrealistic, almost robotic at some points, and too many uses of the word perhaps. No one talks like that, especially teenagers. There’s also the fact that the narrative relied too heavily on telling the story rather than showing it. I felt like I was constantly info dumped by the author, like it was orientation day and I was a tired new kid at Waverly Prep. And then there was a five page dialogue scene about the logistics of taking a field trip. I really didn’t need that.The end: Predictable. I’m right about the whodunit fifty percent of the time I read a mystery. And even then, I fall easily for red herrings and doubt myself (hey, it’s more fun than being right all the time). That was not the case in this case (ha). I wish I could have been more surprised by the culprit and the motive.Have You Seen Me? is stuck between wanting to be YA and new adult. I don’t think it completely pulled off either one. It’s appropriate for YA readers who like a tiny bit of gore and older readers might appreciate the prep school setting with a teacher as the main character. But I’ll just say don’t waste your time.Have You Seen Me? comes out August 17, 2021.1/5 Stars.I received a free e-ARC of Have You Seen Me? from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. This review and others up on my blog.
4125315256	I received an arc from net galley in exchange for an honest review I overall enjoyed this story. I do think it took a little while for the story to start progressing, but once it did it really took off. Learning about the back story of the school, the students and the teacher and what ultimately brought them all together was interesting. I do think the ending was slightly predictable, but I liked how the author was still able to make you second guess yourself and make everyone look like the bad guy. I also like the ending and how it was left open. I wouldn't mind if we got something else set at this school. I could definitely see how we could go in that direction. I wouldn't mind reading something else from this author.
3618254044	Riveting, fast paced thriller wrapped up in a mystery. Is history repeating itself or is it a coincidence? Alexandrea slowly peels away layer after layer to reveal the truth. I throughly enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it even if you don’t usually read thrillers.
4100450110	*Thank you to Vesuvian Books and Publishers Weekly for the ARC of this book*Have You Seen Me? is a mystery/thriller with some slasher movie elements. It was relatively fast paced and kept my attention well enough. Much of the story was not really believable, but I could suspend my disbelief (for example, Aubrey, our main character, is supposed to be a teacher at this private school, however, she has no sense of teacher/student boundaries and quite often leads these kids into danger). I guessed the killer pretty early on, but tried to talk myself out of it because I didn’t want it to be that easy. The ‘romance’ was fine I guess? I liked the love interest for Aubrey, but I think it was just unnecessary. This book didn’t need a romance. I also think this is supposed to be the start to a series and I don’t think that it’s necessary either. Overall, I think people will like the fast paced nature of the book and the author’s willingness to put characters through it. A couple things that were a little mehhhhhhh to me: Aubrey is a Black woman of Creole (and later mentioned Choctaw) descent. The author does some kind of surface level introspection on racism and how that affected Aubrey’s life. I’d love to see some Black and/or Creole reviewer’s thoughts on the portrayal of this character. The other thing is that the town where this private school is located and where all this goes down is located near the Chitimacha Reservation. The Chitimacha Tribe is mentioned many times and are implicated in the disappearances at certain points, however, we never get a scene of them being to spoken to or anything of that nature. I also very much do not like that they were constantly referred to as the “Chitimacha Indians” as most Native people do not like to be referred to as “Indians” by anyone who is not Native (and even then, some Native people do not like to be called that by other Natives).*Adding a quick edit here: the language has been changed for final printing to refer to them as the Chitimacha, which is great to hear!*The Chitimacha Tribe has a website with a little bit of info about them and some photos of their traditional basket weaving, which is very beautiful. According to the website, they only have 4 people who know how to do this type of weaving. This doesn’t have anything to do with the book really; I just thought it was an interesting fact I saw. I would also like to read any reviews of this book by members of the Chitimacha Tribe. Overall, I think this author is good at writing action scenes. The mystery could have used a little bit more mystery (in my opinion), but I think people will like this one.*another quick edit lol. I’d give this one a 3.5 I think. The more I think about it, the more I wish the mystery was a little more complex. Thanks!*
4296589390	￼*I received a copy of Have You Seen Me? in exchange for an honest review.* All I can say is that was an intense ride from start to finish! I was so engrossed in the book, that by the end I was just suspicious of everyone. Aubrey? Sheriff? Bella? Sara? Samuel? IT COULD BE ANYONE. I trusted no one and everyone could be the killer. I was pleasantly surprised by the slasher aspects of the novel. When it showed the persons dying POV I was shocked. Usually when you get a POV like that, the person survives. But, nope. You get a pretty detailed, and graphic account of their last few seconds of life and dying thoughts. It created a powerful and unique aspect to this novel that actually upped the rating from 4 to 5 stars. Another aspect that created a five star experience was the emotional roller-coaster that I went through as a reader. Usually I suspect someone from the get go (which I did this time and was actually right), BUT in this novel I was constantly questioning every single character. I had my main suspect, but by the end I didn't trust a soul. I really enjoyed the characters in this novel and how they were all together as a mosh up of all different types of personalities. I also enjoyed that Aubrey was believable as a teacher, but as a mentor to the kids. She had to hold back at first because she was primarily their teacher, but throughout the investigation she had some slip ups into friend territory. And, which everything they had going on, I felt like this made her feel more real. I didn't get too attached to any of the characters, because I knew after the first death that most of them were going to die, I could just feel it in my bones. I was right. But, I still was sad after each of their deaths. I felt like I was there with them during the investigation and their deaths. I was invested and was always sad when another one was picked off. This book gave me "I know what you did last Summer" vibes, except they did nothing wrong. The killer is just a literal psycho with an entirely skewed moral compass. Those poor kids. If I had one critique, it would be that the big reveal was too short. The killer got their just desserts, but I wish I would have gotten more of their perspective as to why they thought they HAD to do this, rather than them just being crazy and thinking the kids knew their secret. I just wanted a little more of their viewpoint.Overall, this is an excellent mystery novel. The writing is skillful and keeps you on the edge of your seat. The characters are great, and I am looking forward to reading more novels by Alexandrea Weis. https://coffeewanderbooks.blogspot.co...
4100985675	𝑲𝒊𝒏𝒅𝒍𝒆 𝑹𝒆𝒗𝒊𝒆𝒘𝑯𝒂𝒗𝒆 𝒀𝒐𝒖 𝑺𝒆𝒆𝒏 𝑴𝒆𝑩𝒚: @alexandreaweis𝑮𝒆𝒏𝒓𝒆: Mystery, Thriller, Fiction𝑷𝒖𝒃𝒍𝒊𝒔𝒉𝒆𝒅: Aug. 3rd 2021𝑷𝒖𝒃𝒍𝒊𝒔𝒉𝒆𝒓: @vesuvianbooks𝑭𝒐𝒓𝒎𝒂𝒕: @amazonkindle@goodreads 𝑺𝒄𝒐𝒓𝒆: 4.07𝑴𝒚 𝑺𝒄𝒐𝒓𝒆: 🕵️🕵️🕵️🕵️ / 5 𝑫𝒆𝒕𝒆𝒄𝒕𝒊𝒗𝒆𝒔Thank you @netgalley, @vesurvianbooks for this advance E-ARC for my reading pleasure for an unbiased review. 𝐋𝐢𝐧𝐝𝐬𝐞𝐲 𝐆𝐢𝐥𝐥𝐞𝐭𝐭 𝐢𝐬 𝐦𝐢𝐬𝐬𝐢𝐧𝐠. And she’s not the first girl at Waverly High to vanish without a trace. To help cope with the tragedy, new history teacher Aubrey LaRoux organizes a student investigation team. But when those key members start turning up dead across campus, Aubrey suspects there’s more going on than anyone is willing to admit.At Waverly High, someone wants to keep the past buried—and you don’t want to get in their way.🄼🅈 🅃🄷🄾🅄🄶🄷🅃🅂Another fabulous whodunit has arrived and to make this fun story even better the setting is a highly prestigious boarding school. Oh, how I love all the above. This story starts with our female protagonist history teacher Aubrey LaRoux. Aubrey herself went to Waverly High 10 years ago and is now just been hired as the new history teacher. On her first day Aubrey catches site of a flyer of a missing teen girl. This teen girl is actually a student at Waverly High but what is even stranger is this missing student is the sister of another missing student that happened in 90's. When Aubrey LaRoux was attending Waverly High. INSERT SHOCK FACETwo sister's years apart going missing? What are the odds? Aubrey LaRoux is very curious and so are missing girl's friends. They decide to team up together to find out who has kidnapped or even killed these girls. But one by one all of Lindsey's Gillett friends start dropping off like flies. While reading this story there were so many options to pick out in this whodunit story. I just kept going back and forth on them all. The deaths were very calculated and smart. I also felt like there were just enough characters for this book. Not too many to feel overwhelmed but just enough for there to be a real serial killer out there. Oh, and the epilogue is CRAZY! I'm so hoping for a sequel! Fingers crossed 🤞Fantastic job to Alexandrea Weis with this novel. I plan to go to your backlist of books and see what else I can get into.
4245048395	Thank you so much to Black Crow Press and the publisher Vesuvian Books for my copy of Have You Seen Me? by Alexandrea Weis in place of a review. This in no way affects my opinion. I hadn't heard much about Have You Seen Me before I picked it up, and while I enjoyed it, I just wanted a lot more from it. It has ended up as a solid three star which is no bad reflection on the book, but I just felt as if it needed something different for my rating to be that little bit higher. Central to any thriller is the characters, as you have to believe in them to believe in the story. While I liked all of the characters within Have You Seen Me, I had to question some of their decisions, as they always seemed to go for the extreme option. There never seemed to be a minute where they just took a break and decided altogether what they were going to do. I also am not too sure about the romantic direction that the book told, as I am not sure that it was necessary, considering the circumstances. As important as the characters is the atmosphere, this was what really let Have You Seen Me down. I didn't feel as if Alexandrea Weis created enough of an atmosphere as the story seemed to follow a very repetitive cycle, so I knew what was going to happen before it did. Unfortunately, this meant that there wasn't any tension created, which is what I really like from my thrillers. One thing that I did love was the setting and, to a larger extent, the world building. Alexandrea Weis did a really good job at conveying the setting, so you could imagine exactly what she had intended. This really helped the story to take place in my mind, and imagine just where the characters were in relation to each other. However, the thing that I think would have really helped this even further would have been some form of a map. Overall, Have You Seen Me was a solid thriller that could have benefited from having a little bit of variation in the way that things were revealed. If you are just starting out reading thrillers, I would definitely give Have You Seen Me a go. But, if thrillers are something you regularly read, you may guess this one a little bit too easy.
4376436999	This was so disappointing! The plot of this one made the book sound so good, but it just fell so flat for me. The plot revolves around Aubrey LaRoux, a new teacher at Waverly Prep, the boarding school that Aubrey went to as a teenager. When Aubrey was a student, several teenage girls went missing. At the time, Aubrey was a shy girl, and now as a teacher more students are going missing. Aubrey is a history teacher and basically her first period students talk her into investigating the missing students. The school is in Louisiana, next to the site of a Civil War battleground (which the students aren't allowed to go to) and Aubrey leads the students in this investigation by going to this battleground. The school headmistress (aka the principal) is super uptight and doesn't want students to express themselves and only seems to want them to succeed doesn't want students to find out what really happened. However, I didn't feel invested in this plot. The characters lacked dimension, all the students seemed to be varying degrees of "standard rich kid," and Aubrey is basically a wallflower and a pushover. Any teacher who lets her students walk all over her to do some kind of true crime investigation is not a good teacher. I also didn't get a good sense of place of this school, other than that it's in kind of a remote location and bleak...I guess. Louisiana is such a colorful and wonderful place and the author didn't bring that in at all--I get this is a mystery, but still. This could've been a great mystery, but the ending was somewhat predictable. I realize this is an unpopular opinion, but this should've been so much better.
4154390690	I had mixed feelings about this one. To start with though, it must be said that this was for the most part exceedingly well written in terms of both execution and description. Even in places where it felt very predictable, Weis pulls it off with her execution, and the descriptions were so vivid and well written that every part of this book was easy to visualize, which combined with the well-developed setting and history of the school really helped bring the world to life and ground the story. I also have to say that I loved the setting of this story in a residential school, and in fact that was one of the largest appeal of this book as I grew up on stories of boarding schools, and I wanted to see this type of story in that setting and in that sense it did not disappoint. I also liked that there was almost a slasher-movie like feel to this in places, it made for compelling reading. What I didn't enjoy as much, was that there was a lot about this story that was predictable, and that in some places where the tension was ramping up, it was deflated by certain scenes and lines of dialogue. It also felt, not so much contrived in places, but that there were holes in the plot that weren't quite hidden by the excellent execution, and just little details, particularly with Aubrey's character that didn't quite fit as neatly as they should. However, despite those elements, I did enjoy this book and Weis' writing has me wanting to read more by her in the future.
4114305522	3.5 StarsThis story is a mix of the movies Scream and I know what you did last summer. This is a YA, murder mystery/thriller, with multiple perspectives. This mainly follows Aubrey, who is back to her old school, as the new history teacher. Already things are not going as planned especially when a student goes missing and she gets thrown right in the middle of the investigation. It was really entertaining, fast paced, a bit predictable but still very enjoyable. It had a couple of plot holes or ideas that just did not make sense. There were also a few points that were not wrapped up at the end, which I would have liked to have a conclusion for. There was a bit of romance, it was fine but could have been left out. I liked Aubrey as a character, she was quiet, in the wrong place and wrong time situations, with a bit of a guilty conscience, the others were a bit fleeting and so I got them mixed up at the beginning. Overall, exciting time if you're just looking for a slasher, horrifying and heart race story, I would recommend picking this up.Trigger Warnings: Kidnapping, dismembering, murder, suffocation.I received this advanced ebook, via Netgalley. This review is my own honest opinion.
4062053285	"Lindsey Gillett is missing. And she’s not the first girl at Waverly High to vanish without a trace."Aubrey LaRoux has returned to Waverly Prepaaratory School now a history teacher she had attended when she was young. As she enters she sees several fliers for a missing student. After meeting Sara Probst the schools administrator, who only seems to care about the school and not the missing students, Aubrey gets ready to meet her students. The students do not trust Aubrey and suspect she had something to do with another missing student who went missing when Aubrey was attending. There have been several missing students over the years and Aubrey's class is determined to solve the mystery. Aubrey will have to work hard to keep everyone safe as more students are found dead.This was an intriging fast paced mystery. The premise was good but the ending was predictable.I received an ARC from NetGalley for an unbiased review.
4261112910	ℍ𝕒𝕧𝕖 𝕐𝕠𝕦 𝕊𝕖𝕖𝕟 𝕄𝕖I just finished this last night and enjoyed the ride. This book is basically a teen horror/slasher movie in a book. Think of I Know What You Did Last Summer and Scream. I loved the author’s descriptive writing, I could picture all the buildings, school and woods area perfectly. The killings are well written without being too gory. Some are the characters are a bit cliche and the story itself a bit predictable and unbelievable but that’s not why you would read this book, you’re reading for a bit of a thrill and a quick read. I did guess the killer but there is a good red herring placed as well to throw the reader off. All in all, I didn’t love but I certainly didn’t hate it!! I’d say it’s perfect for YA readers and I give it 3.5/5.
4161588720	Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for the advanced copy in exchange for an honest review! This was an okay read for me. It started off slow but it did get better about halfway through. I had a hard time getting through the first half but in the end I'm glad I finished it. I had my suspicions on who the killer was early on, but there was a twist at the end I didn't see coming. The epilogue left this open to a follow-up book or series, but I'm not sure I will read it.
7969365241	Have You Seen Me overall was a good suspense story, It had me at the beginning but it seemed to lose steam through out. It was a tad predictable and I didnt really connect with any of the characters. The world building was solid with great descriptive writing. I guess I just like more deoth and this was a very surface story IMO.
4362583469	The beginning gripped me, but then I found it quite predictable until the ending where it got a bit more exciting again. The writing is great and it is an enjoyable read I just wanted to be shocked more and to be sat on the edge of my seat. I wasn’t excited to pick it up unfortunately…
4524157348	An incredible, edge of your seat thriller bringing together mystery and intrigue with every page turned. What starts off as a missing person case takes twists and turns, leaving you gasping in shock each time. A chilling, spine tingling but satisfying read, this is one incredible story!
4526017961	Good “who done it”!
5590083952	For me, characters and plot could have been a little more developed.
5176951271	Overall, this was a decent story. The beginning was a bit slow but the pace picked up halfway through. I found there were some plot holes that drove me crazy but I was happy with the ending.
4301066486	A bad slasher movie in book form. Fact drama and bad lines included.
4204223915	Thank you to Black Crow for sending me a proof copy in exchange for an honest review.Have You Seen Me? is set at a boarding school near New Orleans, and follows a team of students and their history teacher as they set up investigation team when one of the students go missing. However, the longer the team research this missing student, the more they uncover about the dark history of the school… and they also get killed off one by one. Reading this book was like watching a slasher film, in the best way. The chase scenes are really suspenseful, and the kills are quite fun, if you can say that! I feel like horror fans will know what I mean. The novel has this sticky and sweltering heat from the setting which creates this really claustrophobic atmosphere. I did work out who the killer was early on, but I don’t want to hold that against this book – I’m quite attuned to the slasher formula.It’s a fun Southern Gothic read which is great for the spooky season, or for those who like to bring the gothic into their summer vibes.
