4174113916	Firstly, all of these likes are from before this book was even released.-Okay, I'm super late, but I finally got the time to read this book, and it was okay!The first two books felt like they had much higher stakes, and I got so used to the world inside the Scholomance that it felt odd when they got out. Everything in this book occurs within a short period of time, and its pacing is nothing like what we're used to.Loose ends are tied up, but it just feels like the characters were stagnant. Yes, one of them had a really great reason, but everyone else?Three stars because it really was a well-written book that had parts I genuinely enjoyed reading, but by the end of the book, I just felt like, "Damn...is this it?"I want a fourth book. I want this series to keep going because there is no way this is the ending I get.Edit: No one told me this review I posted over a year ago had so many errors. :/
4102477005	Well…I’ve finished it and I have A LOT of thoughts. Will try to piece them together for a proper review soon. ***I know nothing about this book, but I am DESPERATE for it thanks to THAT ending. How dare we get left on such a cliffhanger?!?
4267342540	all of my 2022 anticipated releases being terrible is my villain origin story 😭😭this read like a second book in a sequel, i hate when characters are split up for majority of the book. i just feel like the series should’ve been a duology because this was… certainly a choice. Orion was barely in this book. i also loved El in the first book, even the second but i feel like the third she was just so different. i think characters don’t always need character development, the don’t need to be liked. i liked her just fine before. this book just feels like such a slap in the face because it feels completely different than the first two. and what was that weird cheating plotline? idk chile… just very sad, wasn’t expecting to give this two stars i love the series so much but this was such a disappointment.and this read like literally harry potter fan fiction, i know that it technically is but it was never so blatantly obvious before. i felt like i was rereading deathly hollows.
4316903982	This is all some big joke about Patience.
4261665691	Pre-publication: I'm gonna keep the tradition going, read The Last Graduate today, and somehow come to terms with having to wait a whole year for the next book. Because I'm just mean like that.Update: I just finished reading The Last Graduate. Condoning myself to a whole year of waiting was crueller than I could have anticipated. Post-publication: There were some darker themes lurking beneath the previous Scholomance books, but this book was much less Harry potter and much more "Those who walk away from Omelas". Inequality, privilege, the costs of capitalism and trauma were at the forefront and cute dialogue and fun world-building were way back in the background. And the romance, well, almost non-existent. Now, as much as I liked the magic school settings and the El-Orion relationship, I would have been all for the shift, if the book didn't feel a little .... underedited. All the wat material was there, the plot twists were good and it would have been a satisfying ending to the series if it was just better executed.(If you like, come hang out with me on booktube: https://www.youtube.com/@UnfortunateA...)
5813508173	I felt nervous going into The Golden Enclaves because I was delighted with A Deadly Education and The Last Graduate with their much more complex, unconventional and gritty perspectives on the magical school trope and I really needed the final instalment to deliver.So did it?The truth is that I read this during the holiday chaos, knee-deep in festive vibes and margaritas. Admittedly, my focus might've been more on spending cherished time with friends than the book and I probably wasn’t as immersed as I should have been. Maybe I should have read it when I could have given it the focus it deserves, because it’s not necessarily an easy read. It’s uncomfortable, dark and tightly woven.Nonetheless, I still really liked it and it was a worthy conclusion. If I met El/Galadriel in real life, I feel like we would be friends, and for me, she’s relatable on so many levels. Again, I know she’s not for everyone, yet I have grown to love her stream-of-consciousness snarky dark-queen narration and the way she challenges traditional notions of heroism. Like its predecessors, The Golden Enclaves still retains all the same funny, profound, clever and savage parallels to life and capitalism. I can’t really talk about much else without spoiling this book and the previous books, however, I will say, I was surprised, shocked, amused and delighted. I guess there are some plot directions that are super extra and I caught myself thinking what the hell am I reading, but in the end, I found when I let it go and embraced it, the story came together really nicely for me and this overall was a satisfying conclusion to the series. Also, I have decided I too would like a sassy mouse familiar named Precious who keeps my best interests at heart and occasionally bosses me around.The Scholomance trilogy blog1. A Deadly Education - 5⭐️2. The Last Graduate - 5⭐️3. The Golden Enclaves - 4⭐️______Please be gentle with my emotions Ms. Novik.
4267306103	This comment section consist of people who are dying after the Last Graduate- and I'm one of them.
5022878311	The last thing Orion said to me, the absolute bastard, was El, I love you so much.The Golden Enclaves takes off with this and is a superb conclusion to the Scholomance trilogy. The most satisfying aspect, to me, is to see El and Orion's character arcs complete and stable, making space for each other. Naomi Novik has done a few fantastic fairy tale retellings before (Spinning Silver and Uprooted), but in my head I think of this story as The Beast and the Beast retelling - where, spoilers, neither is a Beast, not really. A perfect short quote that made me think of this again - But they'd loved Orion only in exactly the same way they'd hated me. Neither one of us were ever people to them. He just made himself useful, and I refused to. I loved that their character arcs started in very different places and have been complementary to each other, evolving beautifully since the first book.El's snarky sarcastic sassy voice brings it's own unique flavour to this book, and series; her thoughts and analysis just makes her more relatable to me though the exposition might be too hyperactive for some people. Novik writes masterfully - of complex young adults in one layer, of a brilliant fantasy tale in another and of moral philosophy as the foundational layer. The premise of the series, as El finally recognizes in this book, is paraphrasing the trolley problem - is it okay to save many people by sacrificing one person? And what are the consequences of this decision? Everyone has to decide for themselves, and El more than anyone as she's a budding dark sorceress (a tertiary order entity really). Intent and belief are more important than the words of any spell, and El finds that she has to keep deciding to not be a dark sorceress every step of the way as she races from one place to another. Because once she takes a step down that path, it'll be so much more difficult to stop. The story is paced well, weaving together action, magic and all the good intentions behind the worst politics.The intricate magic system and the world-building also support the central question of this series; it dwells not just on the mechanics of the magic, but more on ephemeral concepts like overarching balance in the universe, hard earned mana and easily stolen malia. Overall, a definite recommendation to pick up this series! Scholomance #1: A Deadly Education ReviewScholomance #2: The Last Graduate ReviewThanks to NetGalley, Naomi Novik and the Random House publishing group for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review. 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟[One star for the premise and the whole book; One star for the characters; One star for the writing; One star for the story; One star for the world-building - Five stars in total.]
5413856800	This was such a satisfying finale! All of the various threads made sense and had payoff. Even if there were elements that didn’t wrap up in a perfect bow, they made sense and I prefer those kinds of endings anyway. The entire arc of this story flowed well and I continue to adore El as a character.
4310245728	** spoiler alert ** It's no secret that Naomi Novik and I don't really get along. But, unfortunately, El and Orion's story was interesting enough to make me stay and now here I am, with the same exact issues of a year ago or so, and very less will to deal with it.To be completely honest, the first book was about finding out if Orion was really evil and the second book was about how is it possible that Orion killed himself - kind of.The third one, the one right here, is about knowing he's not dead and waiting for him to show up, for El to finally stop angrily speaking at people and instead do something about it, and for the answers that were promised to us.But what you're looking at is a lot of pages with a very little story.Were Novik’s writing skills a problem two books ago? Yes.Were they a problem a book ago? Sadly, yes.Are they a very big big issue here? Definitely.Some of you may think I'm happy about it, that I'm hate-reading her books or whatever, but I'm not. I didn't expect to like the story in the first place and she hooked me with the sequel. I thought this could have been the grand finale of a pretty good trilogy. But it's not. And it's her fault, no one else’s.From the very first page, you can predict everything is gonna happen. Orion is not dead, something is wrong with him, El wasn't the bad guy all along, big - disgusting - plot twist, the evil witch is gonna come out clean from all of this and happily ever after.It's annoying, but it's what we all know it’d have happened. In the meantime, you have to deal with pages and pages of enclaves descriptions, spell lessons, facts nobody cares about and El’s long reflections about herself, the guy she loves, the prophecy, her mom and every damn thing that has ever happened to her.And do you wanna talk about the desperate attempt to include every single character of the previous books?If you incredibly don't care about any of this, the story is nice. Too much El and Orion don't really behave like himself, but they are together and this is all that matters.We have our happily ever after, now you can go read well-written books.↠ 3 stars Thanks to Del Rey Books, who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest opinion.
4189361166	Still hate the writing styleStill love El
4270403101	This...was not the third book I was hoping for. In the immediate aftermath of the evil cliffhanger of book 2, I imagined that The Golden Enclaves was going to consist mostly of El kicking enclave ass / righting all the injustices of the System with Orion at her back. Post-dramatic rescue, of course, and with lots of snarky exchanges between El and the people she's come to love and depend on.Yeah, no. This story is a lot darker and heavier than that, and the stakes are so much higher outside the Scholomance than El and her friends could have guessed. All the secrets that Novik has been hinting at throughout the first two books - about the school, the maw-mouths, the enclaves, El, and Orion - come slowly to light, and the truth is worse than expected. And of course all the kids have PTSD after their experiences in (and getting out of) the Scholomance. El's anger and grief loom over the entire story, and it's kind of a hard and weird step back after she found friends, love, purpose, and some level of happiness in The Last Graduate. Her friends from school make appearances, but they live all over the world now and are dealing with their own traumas, and the close chumminess of boarding school friendships is gone. (view spoiler)[Orion is barely present in this book! Agghh! Also, what was that thing with Liesel? Casual sex seems pretty out of character for El, who has never seemed particularly attracted to her, plus Liesel is so calculating and methodical that an encounter with her sounds as sexy as an optometrist visit - "Is A better, or B? A, or B?" (hide spoiler)]I'm still digesting this story. The third book makes it clear how deliberately the first two books were plotted, and I appreciate that, yet it was noticeably not fun to read. I need to reread parts to understand the mechanics of the plot, which I admit I skimmed over because I am more of a character than a plot reader (and they went on a bit, no?), but I'd really rather reread the first two books.Hmmm...3.5 stars for now, subject to change.
5024247845	Incredibly disappointed.The first two books are perhaps my favorite books ever. I LOVED this series. I was so, so excited for the third book. I wasn't expecting to hate it.A list of unforgivable things, in no particular order:(view spoiler)[1. LieselThere are so many things wrong with the inclusion of Liesel. First, she's essentially a main character now where she was a minor one in the 2nd book, and we get more of her at the expense of characters that were actually likable. In fact, she seems to be a replacement for Orion, serving as the replacement love interest while he sits this one out, which is ridiculous because neither of them like one another, and not in a cute way. Liesel tags along after El for exactly no reason the entire book. We get a half-assed explanation that she's trying to "hook" El to prevent her from going full evil sorceress, except there's no indication at any point that El is anywhere near being in danger of doing this and it's never needed. There's also no indication that El or Liesel are even attracted to each other. There's no build up to their *** scenes, no tension, no indication that they're going to happen until they do. To me, it reads like Liesel was included to add diversity to the story so that Naomi Novik can claim that her main character is bi and slap an "inclusive" label on it, rather than to improve the plot. You can actually remove Liesel from the entire book and nothing would change.2. ChloeWhere the hell was Chloe? Books 1 and 2 spent so much time building her up as a character and having her join El's alliance, only for her to get completely sidelined and forgotten in this one. She makes one minor appearance, and all she does is wring her hands and shoot nervous glances at El. When El has conference calls with Aadhya and Liu, Chloe isn't included. She doesn't get to be at the final battle. When she calls El repeatedly, El ignores here. Freaking Khamis has more lines and inclusion than Chloe. Why is she just no longer considered part of the friend group? It's never explained.3. El is so mean to her momI was so excited to finally get to meet El's mom, who we've heard so much about, but not only does she barely get any dialog, El is just straight up HORRIBLE to her mom for the entire book. El truly does not deserve her mom. She just takes and takes and takes and never gives anything back. She even brings a monster that her mom has specifically told her to stay away from back to the yurt without asking and makes her mom deal with him, and never says thank you.4. Reads like someone else wrote itI can't put my finger on it, but the majority of the book feels like it was ghost written. It doesn't start "sounding" like Novik's writing until the action starts to pick up. And there's this weird issue where conversations can't ever include more than two people, regardless of who's actually in the room. Any time there's a group conversation, I kept forgetting that it wasn't just El and whoever talking, because everyone else just sits there silently, with the text only occasionally reminding us they're still there. The most absurd example of this is El's conversation with Ophelia; El accuses Ophelia of being a horrible malificer and her husband, who is sitting with them, doesn't react at all. I kept forgetting about Precious, too, who's in El's pocket the entire time but almost never actually does anything.5. Orion is essentially not in the bookFor a series that began by advertising itself as El and Orion's story, he's gotten less and less to do with the plot over the span of three books. And to rub salt in the wound, he doesn't even get to be with El by the end of the book. His journey is strange, because we get all of these little hints in books 1 and 2 that there's something not quite right with him, and then suddenly in this book he's full monster and can't even speak. Sadly, he also could have been removed from the book without the plot being affected. He doesn't really have much to do with anything. El is sad over him, but it never affects her actions. Getting him back from the Scholomance doesn't lead to anything. He's basically just there to answer the question of what was wrong with him in the first two books. And while El gets to grow and thrive and come into her own in this book, Orion just regresses.Side note, but El spends so much time over the trilogy yelling and screaming at everyone else that they're failing to see Orion as a person, but SHE'S the one who can't see him for what he really is. Chloe and Orion himself tell El over and over again that he has no interest in anything but hunting, but El keeps explaining it away to herself that actually that's not true, he was just raised to think of himself as everyone's savior. She never loves Orion for who he actually is, but the version of him that she invented in her own head, and that never changes, even by the end of the book.6. *** scenesYou could remove all of these scenes from the book and nothing would change. It happens three times, each weirder and more meaningless than the last. For the first, El is depressed and in mourning over losing Orion, then does a full 180 and sleeps with Liesel seemingly out of nowhere, just for fun. She doesn't seem to feel bad about it, or miss Orion, or even think about him. It doesn't read like El is doing something crazy out of desperation, it reads like she just went "eh, why not", as if she's bored. The second time, she's sitting on a log in the middle of the woods 50 feet away from her mom with Orion who doesn't want to live anymore, and they just start rolling around on the ground out of nowhere. The third, with no build up at all, she sleeps with Liesel in an airplane bathroom right after Orion tells her he wants her to kill him. Again, there's no emotion to it, El just does a 180 and is like "eh, whatever". This is a horrible message to teenage girls and actively makes El a worse character.7. PacingThere's no structure to this book. Things just sort of happen to El without any indication of where it's going. The blurb on the jacket says something like "now that I've left the Scholomance, I have to immediately turn around and find a way back in", but that's not even what she does. People just sort of show up and ferry El around for the majority of the book, spending a bunch of time describing the inside of Enclaves that we won't see again and meeting characters that won't matter. The book spends SO MUCH TIME describing Yancy, I thought she was going to be a major player. But then El leaves London and she never comes up again. There's an entire chapter dedicated to describing the inside of the void, so I thought they were going to have to fight their way through the void into the Scholomance, but instead they just kind of...step inside easily. So much of the book is so boring and could have been cut out, and so much wasn't touched on that needed it. Why was Ophelia described as this big bad, only to never do anything to try to stop El or get in her way? Is Orion immortal now, can he leave the Scholomance, and are they still a couple or is El moving on with her life? We'll never get to know. (hide spoiler)]Overall it gets 2 stars, because the last 40% was interesting enough, but it wasn't enough to fix this mess.
5039830390	This is an amazing series that I really loved. Some parts were a bit heavy and I'm not sure the end was *quite* what I wanted, but it was still overall incredibly worthwhile.
4373889772	This is hands-down my favorite series of the last decade, possibly my entire adult life. And I enjoyed this final volume a lot. Not quite as much as the first book, which isn’t unexpected, and I have some quibbles, but I had a ton of fun bingeing it, and expect to enjoy lots of discussion and probably re-reading in the future.El is finally out of the Scholomance, so we get to see the rest of the wizarding world here and deal with the larger issues that have been percolating throughout the series. The book gets off to a bit of a slow start—I was impatient with the London enclave episode early on, about which I didn’t care that much—but ultimately adopts a frantic pace, full of globetrotting action and with most of the novel taking place over the course of about a week. So it’s fun and addictive, though personally I’d rather it had slowed down a bit to explore how the characters will adjust to being out in the real world and to adult relationships and how they’ll deal with their trauma, instead of simply plot plot plot. El also doesn’t seem to me to experience nearly as much growth or change here as in previous books, which may be because she’s already undergone the growth appropriate to her character and can’t keep changing and still be herself, which is a hazard with series.But with that out of the way, El is still a fantastic character with a strong and occasionally humorous voice, and it really is a fun and exciting and satisfying plot, with a lot of big, expert reveals that make complete sense and were clearly set up all along, but which for the most part I had not guessed. (view spoiler)[The reveal about how the enclaves are made was appropriately shocking and horrifying, even though I’d been expecting something like that. The reveal that El had been inadvertently destroying them all along was great—so clearly set up and so perfect, and I had never guessed! The reveal about the prophecy was exactly what I’d always expected—minus the part where Deepthi knew the truth all along and chose not to share—but really well-done, from the reactions of the other relatives to El’s embracing her true heroic identity. The reveal about Orion is the one I’m most confused about, in terms of logistics, but it had also clearly been set up and made sense of who he was. (hide spoiler)]I also appreciate what a mature story this is, not going the easy route of Big Bads whose defeat will automatically fix the world, but instead targeting the system that encourages the haves to exploit the have-nots. Throughout the trilogy, Novik has refused to place the blame on individuals, instead looking at the way everyone is operating within a system, and within the flaws of human nature, and people generally will do right and help others when given the chance. And at the same time, almost everyone will also participate in an exploitative system when it suits their interests; opting out often isn’t realistic. Making a better world isn’t a matter of killing bad people, but of creating an environment in which our better natures can thrive. It’s such a biting indictment of capitalism, without ever taking the easy way out. Some commentary on the ending: (view spoiler)[I definitely expected a bigger, more comprehensive solution than this to the problems of the enclaves and the mals. My pet theory was that they’d have to get rid of magic entirely because in the end it’s just making their lives worse—I mean, sure, magic is cool and all, but would you take in exchange a 75% adolescent mortality rate, and being forced to spend your entire life watching your back? That’s a terrible deal.But I figured if not that, they’d at least do something to root out the source of mals and to stop people building enclaves—it seemed to me that the thrust of the first two books was about not accepting partial solutions that only saved some people, but inspiring people to work together to find one that will help everybody. And El’s power is so massive that this seemed to me within her grasp. But in the end, the only thing she really defeats is the evil within Orion. And sure, she’s working on the maw-mouth problem. But nothing else has changed—some form of enclaves is still necessary, and even the Scholomance is going back into use, which seems to me a terrible outcome even if its hellishness will be reduced. And it’s a mature and realistic ending, for sure. I was impressed that Novik just lets Ophelia continue on her merry way, consolidating power. A lesser author would’ve had her pointlessly attack El so that El could kill her off. (Ophelia, by the way, is the most realistic psychopath I’ve ever seen in fantasy. She can read a room, she’s never pointlessly antagonistic—you can actually believe her as a political leader—which makes her far more chilling than those clueless mustache-twirlers. Novik even avoids giving her one of those silly villain monologues, by having her archrival deliver it instead and explain his knowledge with “well, I have spies”! That was clever, if a bit anticlimactic.) But with seemingly unlimited power to change the world in El’s grasp, realism was less satisfying to me here than it is elsewhere. (hide spoiler)]Otherwise, I really like the way this volume gives the ladies time to shine; much of the book consists of El running around with her girl posse, without gender ever being an issue. But I would have liked a little more depth from these characters and their relationships. (view spoiler)[Aadhya has always seemed to me a somewhat hollow sidekick type: I want to like her, but it’s never felt like she personally has much going on, and her friendship with El is almost too straightforward to be interesting. Liu is more interesting and has always had her own arcs, but there the friendship doesn’t seem to have much substance. Chloe and Liesel are strong characters, and El’s relationships with each of them do have complexity, but they aren’t what I’d call close. El just happens to intersect with each of them for a brief moment in her life (although she’s perhaps getting there with Liesel). And Gwen, of course, is fabulous but totally sidelined! We don’t even learn whether El is repeatedly running off without telling her or whether Gwen made the decision to stay behind. Though, I should round off these complaints by noting that El and Orion’s relationship is also somewhat lacking in substance in this book; even when physically present, he’s mostly absent here. (hide spoiler)] Perhaps complex interpersonal relationships were never what Novik was trying for, and overall the characters are enjoyable and believable, even those with small roles. And I was pleased with the romantic resolution: (view spoiler)[El and Orion finally seem poised to make a go of their relationship, but Novik doesn’t overdo it by having them make a firm commitment or giving us some awful Babies Ever After epilogue. They’re 18, lifelong commitment should not be on the agenda right now! And as a reader, you get to imagine whatever long-term outcome you want. (hide spoiler)]At any rate, I’m sorry it’s over, but it did have to end, and it ended strongly enough that I’d have no hesitation recommending the trilogy to new readers. This was a fabulous experience all around, and my heartfelt thanks to Novik for writing it.
4272581969	I thought this was a duology. Now I'm in pain.Edit on Sept 30, 2022: It was so worth the wait!
4268503512	orion lake is harrowhark nonagesimus for people whose homestuck was harry potter
6007223348	The ending of the The Last Graduate, the second book in the Scholomance series, was incredibly frustrating, and I didn’t pick up book three for almost two years. But I’m glad I finally caved. Because to my surprise, Novik knew exactly how absurd her cliffhanger was, and she spends the first third of The Golden Enclaves grappling with it. Why this nonsensical choice? Why this meaningless behavior? And she answers that question. She answers with plot—she explains—but she also answers philosophically. Her world is absurd. Why would you expect people to act in a way that made sense? And the truth, of course, is that our world—the planet earth in the waning days of 2023—is absurd. And why would you expect people to act in a way that made sense?This is a YA novel. As a YA novel, it naturally confirms to some common demands of that genre. It asserts first that the world needs saving, and second that that savior will be a disaffected teenager. The first axiom is at once a self-evident truth and a pernicious myth destructive of human solidarity. The second axiom is too absurd to take seriously. And yet, I enjoyed this book ridiculously much. The part of my brain insisting that this is a four star read is being loudly drowned out by another part of my brain yelling back “if this is a four star read, than why did you love it so much, huh?”This is a YA novel. It has a YA plot and a YA tone, snarky and heartfelt. Its sex scenes are YA sex scenes, all racing hearts and clothes torn off and then cut directly to sheepishness. Its characters are YA characters, which is to say teenagers who act like teenagers sometimes; other times like how teenagers might like to think they act.But the book is also smart. It is ridiculous, but it is smart ridiculous. It is an allegory of capitalism, blindingly, plainly. As an allegory of capitalism it offers us the only convincing solution that has ever been offered to the violence of capitalism. Collective refusal, followed by the collective building of something new. And yet, there is another, deeper thread of meaning running through the book, far more thoughtful about what it means to inherit a poisoned world. What it means to be complicit. What it means, say, to wear a shirt made in a factory where children work 16 hour days. What it means, say, to eat food cooked by a chef who has been denied a legal identity and lives with the daily fear that any contact with any kind of authority will lead him to lose his home and family and everything he has worked for overnight. What it means, say, to live in the most prosperous society that has ever existed and to know that that prosperity was built on slavery and empire.The book imagines the most horrible fate possible, the most absurd and monstrous violence, and then it builds everything safe and desirable in its imagined magical society upon that suffering—a suffering so preposterous it is almost impossible to take seriously. It holds up that mirror and says: you, too, would be complicit. And we can’t ask that you not be. We can’t ask that you choose differently because all human beings have chosen as you have chosen. Nobody has enough power to refuse completely. To imagine that you have the power to refuse completely, to shunt off this horrible complicity, to be pure and free of the violence of modernity, is to imagine that you are better than everyone else, which is a kind of arrogance that unavoidably makes you part of the problem.No hero is coming, the book says, even as it lets us relish the pleasure of imagining that one just might.This is a YA novel, but it is also a fable. The moral, distilled down to a sentence, is that the ends never justify the means, because when all is said and done your means are what you are left with; the means are the ends. Which happens to be one of my most deeply held beliefs.I don’t know precisely how to feel about it all, in the end. But it is an extraordinary book pretending to be an ordinary book, that I can say.
7436213075	After the horrible cliffhanger at the end of the second book the author gives us this? Nope. Those characters deserved better.I really liked original magical system in the books, but the way it's introduced was dull till the very end - pages long descriptions just distracting from the plot. The third book was the worst in this matter. Interesting characters, especially MC - destined to be dark witch, are stumbling around, diversity often seems forced and interactions weird. And the plot itself getting quite predictable, despite the author's clumsy attempts to take readers on an emotional roller-coaster. It's a dark academia, after all, with an emphasize on a 'dark'. Disappointed but relieved that I've finally finished it.
6291024564	This entire trilogy consists of 5-star-books. Do with this information what you will.
4510765871	** spoiler alert ** Actually, 0..can I add zero?.. nevermind...WTF was that??? This is going to be a huge rant.So I imagine the author thinking something like this:OMG, I already have 2 books from the trilogy done (originally duology, but really, we did not tackle the importance of inclusion yet, sooo..).Anyway, 2 books and no queer representation, that cannot be! Where is the obligatory powerful independent lesbian in this setup? Right, we have Liesel just sleeping with this Alfie character for the career benefits, PERFECT. Ooh right, also, young people, young people have to try everything, riiight? so what about el,PERFECT.It makes so much sense, boys and girls, to tackle your personal crisis by sleeping with a person you barely know and do not really like. Yes, this is it...just go with the flow. Why approach sex like something highly intimate that you should engage in only with someone you know and respect ?...naaah, just do it for the ...stuff, ok? ...some stuff that is beneficial for you, ok? Not like love, people, that's just for inner monologue.MEH...no purpose to this...I will pretend this was duology I suppose ..And to clarify, I am not against any of these things, but when done well:Bi-sexual character: riordan's Apollo really nailed itMorally grey: I will always have Witcher's Yennefer as one of the most amazing female book character of all time (and she was as morally grey as they come)But here, I did not get it. Writing was still good I suppose, plot not so much, but OK. However this ruined it for me so much, especially since first two books were epic (really, one of the best romances I have ever read), I cannot give more than 1 star.
6488686360	Unpopular opinion time: This series should have ended with the second book.This third book was overly long and over-explained SO MUCH, which yes the first books also did, but not to this extent. I loved all of the characters in books 1 and 2 and became so attached to them and with this book I did not care at all what happened to them. I almost wish I hadn't read this book and just lived in ignorant bliss with the first two. I devoured the first two books and it took me over two months to finish this one because it was so slow and boring.I'll still read Novik in the future, but this book made me think she was given too much freedom with her writing and I really wish an editor had come in and cut off a lot of the over-explaining of things because it was just too much.
4462849269	Q:“Does this sort of thing usually work for you, insulting people you’re asking for favors? (c)Q: “He saved my life,” I ground out at her. “He saved my life thirteen times,” and I gasped on a breath of agony: I’d never have the chance to catch up now. (c)Q: The world did in fact insist on going on, and I didn’t have the mana to make it stop. (c)Q: I spent the next day sitting blankly by the dead firepit. (c)Q: I just sat around, inside or outside the yurt mostly at random, and kept trying to change it in my head, play the whole thing out again, as if I could change what had happened by finding some better set of things I should’ve done. (c)There's quite a lot of suprisingly powerful stuff in here. Parents, they always will do a number on their kids, no matter how good they are. Maybe it's all preordained?PTSD's a bitch. Poor kids. Poor Gwen. Am I the only one getting the Narcissa Malfoy vibes from Ophelia Lake?Q: She was in roughly the same state of hysteria as I’d been myself, half an hour before, but I’d had her for help, and she had me, and I’m not very useful unless you’re under attack by an army of maleficaria. (c) Gosh, poor El. I feel that.Q: I’d never imagined that Mum, of all people—who’d never let me see a monster in my own mirror, even when the whole world was trying to convince me that was all that was there—would look at Orion and see his power, and decide that he was a monster. I couldn’t bear it that she hadn’t been able to look at him and see a person. It made it feel like she was lying about seeing me as one. (c)Q:So I could have gone back to scream at her, to tell her the only reason I was alive for her to dream of was because Orion had killed the maleficer who’d gutted me, and had risked his own life spending the night in my room killing the endless stream of mals who’d come to finish the job. (c)Q:I wanted to go back to Mum, but I couldn’t, because I wanted to ask her to hug me for a month, and I wanted to scream at her... (c)Q:I don’t know that I’d even needed him to make it out alive. I had been fairly sure before we began on our objectively lunatic plan of escape that I’d end up dead myself, and at least half the people I cared about along with me, with Orion topping the likely list. If our plans had gone pear-shaped, if the maleficaria had broken loose from the honeypot illusion and started slaughtering us, and we’d all had to run for it, and in the chaos he’d been one of the people who hadn’t made it out, I think I’d have cried and mourned him and gone on.But I couldn’t bear this. (c)Q: Summoning is like make-and-mend. There’s a basic version of it in any given language, which you then elaborate on, depending on what you’re asking for and what you’re offering up in return. You can use a summoning to get almost anything you want—including unwilling sacrificial victims—as long as the thing you want exists. But you have to pay for it—and more than what the average wizard would call its fair market value. If you do a summoning and you lowball the offer, don’t put enough mana in or make enough of a sacrifice, then you lose whatever you have put up, and the summoning doesn’t work anyway.But there’s another way to cast a summoning. You don’t have to put in any mana or make an offering at all. If you don’t, if you just leave the payment wide open, you’re offering anything and everything you have, including your life. Or, in this case, offering to have one of you spend a dragged-out eternity screaming in the belly of a maw-mouth, and offering to have the other crawl out of the Scholomance gates alone and sobbing to bear and raise your child.And you’re offering up the life of that child herself. That handful of cells so completely dependent on your body that you can offer her up without even realizing you’re doing it. Making her a burdened soul as my great-grandmother colorfully put it in her prophecy, signed onto the family mortgage from birth, a vessel to be filled up with terrible slaughtering power and a hideous destiny of murder and destruction, the balance for your pure idealism. All of you paying together, just so that one day that child will earn a chance, just a thin sliver of a chance, to jump up and grab a copy of the spellbook you’re after, off a library shelf at school, to accomplish your dream of generosity and freedom. (c)Q:I suppose I’d had a choice about that. I hadn’t had to fight the maw-mouth. I could have let it go and kill several dozen freshmen instead. I could have paid off the debt of my parents’ courage with that cowardice, sending a pack of children to go down screaming into ten thousand years of hell, and set the balance right that way. I’d paid with my own screaming instead. I didn’t want to remember, but I couldn’t help it, queasy and shivering on the cot, clammy-skinned with the memory. Some part of my brain would still be screaming, still in that maw-mouth, the rest of my life. (c) Poor El. DD Jan 10, 2021 OMG, YES! I was actually scared to look at the series page to see whether #3 would be coming! It would've been totally evil to leave us hanging in the void for all eternity after that cliffy! Thankfully, it will be so now I'm all hot and bothered for it to happen to my reading list!!!!! As always, I expect it to be something crazy & spectacular! One love, Schoolomance series! Hope it will be much, MUCH longer than a mere trilogy!Patience that ate Fortitude? Seriously? Uh-huh.I need my HEA, HE or ELSE!
4262828817	** spoiler alert ** I have finished the last graduate and not to be dramatic but if I don’t get a book 3 soon I will simply perish. I am suffering! Love noami novik but does she think cliffhangers are fun? Because they are NOT and I am now stressing.
5474154441	This final book in the series certainly wrapped a number of things up! The plot didn't go as I expected (a good thing!) and a few scenes where I wasn't sure why they were there. Overall I enjoyed this book and series very much!
4445905394	2.5 stars.I can’t put my finger on exactly why, but I didn’t like this one as much as the first two books. It was all too sad for too long- I wasn’t expecting that. That may be because it’s been nine months since I finished the two books, and the series lost its spell over me. The book felt rushed yet boring at the same time. I know the author is making some points by dragging out the internal monologue but after a while into the book, I wanted it to be over asap. Also, El’s fling kinda made me mad. I didn’t care for the new character additions and the info on the origin of enclaves. Maybe I miss the charm that Orion added to the books. I had high hopes for this book and I’m now disappointed.
5010584001	Holy mother of malificaria. This. Was. Brilliant. So worth the wait. Unputdownable from the off, with twists and turns and magical loops to jump through before culminating in a supremely awesome ending that was just *chef's kiss*. I hope all the other Scholomance fans out there love this as much as I do. And I hope that the super shiny golden cover attracts new fans who are yet to experience this sarcastic, fast paced, brilliantly... dark-but-not-too-dark-maybe-there-is-light-oh-no-thats-a-mal... series!
4544602371	These books make you feel like you've just dived into the pages headfirst. You are living in this story, and it. is. stressful. I'm constantly worried about El getting enough food, sleep, and having clean clothes. And there's always some jaw-dropping twist that I never saw coming, and yet once it's there it makes perfect sense. So well done! The twist in this one was just . . . horrible. And I couldn't look away, and I was so freaked out and sad and anxious . . . yet the ending of the book was perfect.
5108579480	While something was lost in the magic of this series by leaving the closed-room environment of The Scholomance, The Golden Enclaves brought a new level of uncompromising critique of established systems that makes it my favourite in the series. The examination of classism, privilege, and sacrifice escalated to new levels, here, and I appreciated Novik's unflinching display of the evils that can be tolerated by average people to maintain the status quo.I still don't think Novik went far enough in exploring Orion's character and origins, and that (along with a lack of more terrifying and fascinating mals) will remain, for me, the biggest missed opportunity of this series. But what we did learn about the inception of Mawmouths was horrifying enough and thematically relevant enough for me to *mostly* give Novik a pass on the underdevelopment of Orion throughout the series.The introduction of El's bisexuality and Liesel as a romantic interest was a lovely, unexpected treat, and I found their dynamic both hilarious and touching. I will now enter a mourning period for what could have been if Liesel had been the primary romantic interest from the start, with Orion and El remaining firmly in the friend zone. #LiesEl forever!Representation: MC is mixed (South Asian and White), several prominent side characters are BIPOC, El is bisexual, Liesel is bisexual and polyTrigger/Content Warnings: violence, attempted murder, torture, body horror, child abuseYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
3836591590	I don’t usually post negative reviews of books, but I’m so crushed and never would’ve picked this up if I’d known, so here ya go.This book was SO DIFFERENT than the previous two books. The previous ones are some of my favorites in SFF, ever—the characters are rich, the plot compelling and the world fascinating, and El and Orion are one of my favorite ships ever. The Golden Enclaves, to put it bluntly, read like bad fanfic. El and Orion’s deep, complex relationship was completely ruined, in favor of having El actually cheat on Orion with a random girl—twice, including while she knows Orion is alive and about. We’ve had zero indication that this was something El would do—in fact, it was shockingly out of character, morality aside. She’s not troubled by it at all, doesn’t once think of it as cheating, or even something she should tell Orion?! in fact, it’s portrayed as good and fine, because she was ‘experimenting.’ Honestly, the gall of the leftist agenda in this book astounded me. Even with that aside, we barely had any of the El + Orion interaction that made the first two books. Orion was off the page for most of the book, and silent for the rest. El’s grief for him fell flat because less than a week after they’re separated she’s off sleeping with a girl. The one extra star is for the whole Enclave storyline, which was fascinating to a point, but entirely overtook the characters. In short, the book was a mess.Another fantastic series, sunk in the name of representation, and third-book syndrome. I won’t be recommending this trilogy anymore, and am going to pretend the cliffhanger in the second book didn’t happen and they all lived happily ever after.
4648117215	This book is for… those moments when your neurodiversity just won’t let you not finish a series. ⤐ Additionally.All of Naomi’s good writing and El’s witty lines will not make up for the fact that I do feel somewhat let down by this book. I almost feel bad typing this out, especially because I have a bit of a hard time pinpointing my criticism. While I could appreciate El as a whole – if you do not love her you are seriously not my kind of person, bye – and empathize with her struggles, I had a hard time enjoying myself and not feeling like my biggest win reading The Golden Enclaves would be finishing a series and adding another read to my Halloween-themed reading mission (Yes, I AM NEURODIVERSE; HOW COULD YOU TELLLL???). While there are many reasons to read, I must say ‘getting it over with’ is not the best one and actually robs you of great experiences you could have had doing other things instead.I suspect the significant lack of Scholomance played a part in my disappointment. I always loved the "Hogwarts but make it deadly" - it fed into the thrill of the books and always kept me at the edge of my seat, literally expecting a mal behind every corner. I was positively surprised by all the threads coming together in the way they did - I did not expect such a big picture.⤐ What’s happening. ‘You don’t even like her!’ I grimaced. ‘She grows on you. A bit.’ ‘Like a rashling?’ spoiler alert : You won’t believe who ‘her’ is but I’m here for the bisexuality ❤._____________________3 STARS. Decent read that I have neither strongly positive nor negative feelings about. Some things irked me and thus it does not qualify as exceptional.
6615678401	To start things off, the story in "The Golden Enclaves" (Audiobook) was simply enchanting. Naomi Novik built a deep and thorough world that was so easy to get lost in. The plot was full of twists and turns that made it impossible to stop listening. The characters were developed so well, and were so relatable. El, the protagonist, is a complex character who is tough and determined.One of the highlights was the phenomenal world-building. The way that Novik described the magical enclaves, and how she laid out the magic system with so much detail, truly brought the world to life. I could picture the world and feel like I was there.The second highlight was the well-rounded character development. El’s development throughout the story and her growth were so compelling and relatable. You really got to see her evolve and face her inner demons, which added layers to the story.Another highlight was the narrator. The narrator did a fantastic job of giving the characters such distinct voices and emotional expressions that almost made it feel like I was there experiencing it.I really enjoyed the themes about friendships and loyalty. The relationships between the characters felt so genuine and heartfelt. It was so nice to read a story where characters were genuine friends who cared deeply about each other. It was so nice and it added warmth to the story.There was only one critique to add. Sometimes the pacing felt a little uneven, especially during some of the more slow and descriptive sections. The world-building was great, but it sometimes dragged in some of those parts and threw off the rhythm of the story.
4264944024	2 stars? 3 stars? I am not sure. I expected to enjoy this book so much more but a lot of it was just a filler and it took too long for exciting events to take place. By then, I had lost interest even when the pace improved in the second half. The ending part wasn’t, that’s why I’m not sure if I rate it two stars like I originally decided or keep as it is. I didn’t mind El’s monologues before but now they became too much for me. For a last book in a trilogy that kept me glued to its pages, I’d say it was a major disappointment. But at least the end wasn’t terrible.
4985187601	Yes I have binged it. Did I like it? I was left heartbroken and disappointed. The love I started to feel for El’s character was destroyed. I think she was messed up but that doesn’t justify her awful behaviour on 2 occasions. We also had the perfect formula set within the story which has been completely ripped apart and left me feeling so disappointed. Just meh
5016987494	“As long as I can remember—I’ve had the power to do the most monstrous things I could imagine. And all I’ve ever wanted, all my life, is for someone to tell me—that I was in the clear. That I’d never do something so horrible I couldn’t walk away from it. But there’s no one. There’s no one who can hand you a badge and make you all right. The only way to be all right is to keep being all right, as best you can.” ... Well. I promised myself that if this was a solid ending to the series, I’d pull out the stick stuck up my arse and give it 5 stars. So here I am.This is probably gonna be a long-winded, un-review like review, but bear with me 🐻My journey with this series has been... wonky. A Deadly Education was entertaining, with sharp characters, great dynamics, and brutal world-building. El’s distinct razor-sharp voice made for incredibly amusing prose, and I honestly think Education has one of the best opening lines ever. Yet I felt that it was missing substance, an objective, anything beyond “here’s my cool idea for what a wizarding world weighed down by horrifying competition for resources would be.” Battle Royale slice of life with wizards on steroids, is kind of what it felt like. The Last Graduate felt like more of the same, complete with yet another cheap last minute cliff-hanger hook to keep you going.It wasn’t bad; I definitely had fun; but I also found myself finishing both books and thinking, “... Wait, what was the point? What are we building towards?”To top it off, Novik’s chosen style was a lot. Now before anyone comes knocking at my door with a sledgehammer, let me be clear: Novik is perhaps one of the most inspired fantasy writers out there right now. There is no denying her skill and talent at stringing compelling prose together. I’m not disputing that. She is incredibly eloquent, and if you weren’t sold on that yet, The Golden Enclaves is sure to remind you why Novik is a beloved author. Dubious racially loaded choices that slipped past a sensitivity read in A Deadly Education notwithstanding, she is an immensely imaginative world-builder.... But her style in both Education and Graduate was so incredibly rambly, so uncapped, that I’d be halfway through a scene and forget what was happening because El had gone on a three-page expositional tangent on some random spell she’d used. I kept losing the thread of the narrative, in a series the point of which I still couldn’t grasp.In that sense, The Golden Enclaves isn’t much different: we still get massive info dumps about random wizarding details, and titbits of history half-irrelevant to the plot, albeit slightly more under wraps this time around. It picks up immediately where book 2 leaves off, with El landing unceremoniously back in Whales after Orion deceitfully pushed her out of the Scholomance. Burdened with grief, El struggles to readjust to a life where she no longer has to sleep with one eye open... until her Scholomance peers come to snap her out of her misery, because there’s something far more important going on: the mystery evil attacking enclaves has struck again, and now London is in danger. There’s a maw-mouth on the prowl, and El is the only one capable of stopping it.If there is one common thread in Novik’s style, it’s that her stories tend to be like slow-rising dough—it’s a long way before you reach any sort of answer or point. The Golden Enclaves finally put the entire story into the much needed perspective I was missing. It strengthens what came before it, reshapes it. Near everything in it is a narrative reward. Every thread, hook, and question peppered throughout the series gets addressed and slowly unravelled.I was left gobsmacked by the level of allegory and commentary Novik managed to weave into the final instalment of her dark academia trilogy. The Scholomance world is ripe with politics and social issues tailored to its unique setting. Yet what really makes them hit hard isn’t their ingenuity, but that they mimic the real post-colonial power dynamics, climate repercussions, and social unrest in our own world. Her structures of inequality land because they resemble and stand in for real ones. Western enclaves dump their nasties in less privileged territories; indie kids struggle to survive, whilst enclave kids surf unharmed through life; wizards battle over resources in a dog-eats-dog world, all the while adding to the toxic cycle that heralds their own downfall.It turns out all along Novik knew exactly what she was doing with her “Battle Royale slice of life with wizards on steroids.” Who’d’ve thunk.Above all, I love, love, love how Novik doesn’t allow El the reprieve of an easy answer, doesn’t simplify, doesn’t permit the relief of having a single Bad Guy to defeat and comfortably send the issue packing. The Golden Enclaves is about dismantling unsustainable power structures that benefit only a few and make things worse for all, whilst acknowledging that people that buy into them aren’t necessarily evil, just trying to survive, and that this kind of battle will never proffer a quick, simple, permanent win.That said, I do think there will be people who heavily dislike The Golden Enclaves, or find it an underwhelming finale to a series that has very consistently been high-adrenaline and high-tension. In many ways, it goes out with a bit of a whimper. Massive spoiler up ahead but: whilst I found it a brilliantly human choice to have (view spoiler)[Liesel and El sleep together, not once but TWICE, I can see how readers could find this upsetting if viewed through IRL relationship standards. (hide spoiler)]However, the slower, more tedious parts of the narrative (including Novik’s signature info-dumps) are balanced out by how damn imaginative, whip-smart, and razor-sharp her characters are. I have lots of ✨ Feelings ✨ for these poor traumatised little teens. El is still a marvellous bag of caustic remarks and self-righteous anger. I love her petulance, I’ll never get tired of her sass. Her chemistry with Leisel particularly is through the roof in this instalment, and I especially loved that everyone is so aware of El’s good eye for when things are wrong, that they now immediately trust she’s on the money when she gives someone the stink eye. Novik has some great character dynamics going on in this book, and as someone who was more sold on the friendships than the romance in Education & Graduate, I savoured every little morsel.Also, as an adult who rarely reads YA fantasy anymore because I find it hard to believe teenagers could save the world, I continue to be immensely impressed with how Novik weaves a world where I’m perfectly capable of believing the Scholomance contingent would be able to do these amazing things.I could go on and on dissecting why this book worked for me. Naomi Novik, I’m sorry I ever doubted you, I’ll go sit in literary jail and think about what I’ve done. I need to reread this series and properly digest it with this new perspective, which is a lot coming from someone who rarely rereads books. It is by no means perfect, as no book ever is, and I still find the mostly failed attempt at British slang, wording, and school... culture? hilarious in this trilogy (as if occasionally throwing in the word “wanker” made the setting Very British lol), but in the end the positives far outweighed the negatives. Novik has pieced together an air-tight trilogy that holds up to scrutiny, with all the elements that make a story timeless—and she sure stuck the landing.TW: Arguably toxic and abusive child-parent relationship, gore, discussions of structures of inequality, death.
7806303412	I think I took too long to read this book 🙃 Should have read it closer to the second so it was still fresh in my mind. 😆 Overall a great series- think darker Hogwarts 👍
4274797539	NAOMI!!! WHAT???Are you, yourself, a budding dark sorceress, because you’ve done some true EVIL leaving us with a cliffhanger like that!!
5074128415	All that build up and cliffhangers in both previous books of the series just for this one to end up being this trashy???? I PROTEST.In short: cheating is involved and not having any regrets because of it and no consequences.Spoilers, so be careful!!!El is now randomly a lesbian and engages romantically with Liesel. Probably because the author decided that there isn't enough *cough* diversity *cough*.On top of that, all the hopes and dreams we had for El and Orion regarding their romantic relationship are also gone now, since El somehow is now a cheating biatch.I wasn't a big fan of El in the previous books either, buttt at least we saw some character growth... BUTTT NOW??? Okay, so, let me tell you chronologically: El has sex with Liesel while Orion (her initial boyfriend lol) is in agony because he's been trapped by monsters and is being tortured every second (you can hear his screaming yada yada yada). Then El goes to Orion and ends up having sex with him while she's still not done with Liesel. If I recall correctly, she then again has sex with Liesel (I already half-forgot the plot because my mind is shielding me from that knowledge).I guess now it's clear why it was an absolute letdown, isn't it?Like, I'm sorry, I can't forgive a cheater who doesn't even feel remorse for her actions.The first 2 books weren't brilliant either buttt at least they were manageable.
5008528198	** spoiler alert ** Cheating is just a big no for me. Really was looking forward to this one but I would rather have no romance at all then cheating. Reference from [The Literary Invertebrate] review.
8109374955	3.2⭐بالاخره تموم شد!واقعا سختی کشیدم موقع خوندنش...از همین اول بگم که این جلد اصلا مناسب گروه نوجوان نیست. پس دوستان توجه داشته‌باشید که چه زمانی سراغش میرید. جمع‌بندی مجموعه تو جلد سوم میتونم بگم که نسبتا قوی بود. البته که میتونست قوی‌تر هم باشه. تقریبا میشه گفت شخصیت‌ها به اون چیزی که لایقش بودن رسیدن.مونولو‌گ‌های این جلد خیلی کمتر بود ولی توضیحاتش همچنان آزاردهنده بود. یه طوری که برای اولین بار، شروع کردم و از توضیحات یه سری جاها عبور کردم. به نظرم میتونست تو حجم‌ کمتری، ماجرا رو جمع کنه.تو این جلد اِل کاملا یه شخصیت جدید از خودش نشون میده. بعد از اینکه اوریون خودشو فدا کرد که ال بتونه خودشو نجات بده، اول افسردگی میگیره و بعد اقداماتی صورت میده که بتونه فراموش کنه. این روش بروز ضعف گالادریل رو تو این جلد دوست نداشتم. دوست نداشتم اون شخصیت قدرتمندی که تو دو جلد اول شکل گرفته بود، یهو خودشو ببازه و شروع به مشروب‌خواری و یه سری کارای دیگه (😑) کنه که فراموش کنه. کلا از کلیت کتاب اونقدری لذت نبردم و تنها علتی که بهش امتیاز نسبتا بالایی میدم یک پنجم آخر کتابه که میتونم بگم خوب جمع شد.
5942919229	"You couldn't pay me to live in your fucking enclave. The only good thing in it is gone."Don't mind me, I'll just be over here crying over fictional characters again.Genuinely, this series has wrenched my heart from my chest and stomped all over it and I've loved every minute of it. Well, almost every minute: I hate Liesel, I hate Liesel, I hate Liesel, I-This book was my least favourite in the series, and it made me ugly cry and genuinely emotionally exhausted me so it took more time than it would usually take me to read a book of this length. The lack of Orion content is probably a big reason why this was my least favourite book, as him and El mean everything to me, but it also just felt slow at times and a bit repetitive. I missed the school, and I also wasn't as surprised by certain events as it was a bit predictable at times, so I wasn't on the edge of my seat as much as I was for the last two books. I still loved it, and any book that makes me sob that much automatically becomes one I love very much. I experienced grief and heartbreak and my chest hurts as it has hurt throughout this entire novel. I am so sad to let go of this series, and moving on is going to be difficult, but I will forever have a piece of Orion and El tucked into my heart to carry with me. Quotes:"I'd imagined myself with Orion or alone; never anything else.""My word and my mana on it." "Orion had been my friend, my something more, mine...""Like we could do something like that without paying the price.""I imagine it's always easier to do something monstrous if you can convince yourself you aren't going to, up to the last minute, until you do.""Don't be foolish," Liesel said. "Listen to me–" "Sorry," I said, meaning fuck off, and didn't."Which worked not at all.""The monster that couldn't be killed. The monster that all other monsters feared.""It's not your fault," I said, just a howl into the universe, which cared as much as it ever did."He didn't want power. He just wanted to live."Spoilers Below:El and Liesel made no sense and made me really, really angry and I hated it😭 It felt like such a betrayal of Orion :(
4966102763	This book was so good my dog ate it. Literally. The premise of the scholomance series is so incredibly complex and well thought out I almost can’t believe anyone could pull it off. This book made me cry three times and I RARELY cry at books so be warned. ✨full review to come✨
3868820855	El is not a gunWhat we learned from Book 1, A Deadly Education: El (that would be our heroine and first-person narrator Galadriel Higgins) is not capable of sacrificing others to save herself. In Book 2, The Last Graduate, we learned that El is a thermonuclear warhead -- a destructive force so powerful as to be entirely incomparable to other magic-users. We also know that El's own great-grandmother, the Speaker of Mumbai, made a prophecy about El, "She will bring death and destruction to all the enclaves in the world". (The enclaves are communities in which the world's most powerful wizards live together.)In 1999, Brad Bird made an excellent animated film, The Iron Giant, about a sentient robot weapon. The Iron Giant says of himself "I am not a gun". This is the problem El faces -- how not to be a gun... She writes that she is her "own personal trolley problem to solve".If you have read A Deadly Education and The Last Graduate, you will not be very surprised by the first half of The Golden Enclaves. Lots of cool magical battles, personal struggles, quasipolitical manipulations, etc. Also, El's mother Gwen Higgins, whom we knew from previous books to be a rigidly ethical world-famous magical healer deeply opposed to the enclaves, finally steps into the story as a full-fledged and important character.At about the 50% point, however, the plot makes a turn that I didn't see coming. It is at about this point that the book begins to justify its title, "The Golden Enclaves". The second half of the book is all about the mystery of the enclaves.I think I don't want to give away any more. If you read the first two books, you know you want this. It's a rewarding and, to me, unexpected journey. Give it a try.Does this one end with a cliffhanger? (view spoiler)[No, it doesn't (hide spoiler)]Blog review.
4816582660	** spoiler alert ** With some cautiously reserved excitement, I preordered The Golden Enclaves, the final entry in The Scholomance trilogy. The predecessor to this final installment, The Last Graduate , ended with a massive cliffhanger, leaving the fate of the male lead, Orion Lake, looking very bleak—so I was pretty invested in finding out what befell him and how protagonist Galadriel “El” Higgins reacted. I never would have guessed the sequence of events that unfolded in The Golden Enclaves.Presuming the boy she loves dead and with the plan to destroy the Scholomance and the maleficarias it housed successfully enacted, El is stranded back home in Wales, reeling. She isn’t given long to grieve, however, as her classmates soon require her destructive magical powers to save their enclaves and the wizarding world at large. I really loved seeing the wizarding world outside of the Scholomance for the first time in The Golden Enclaves. It was fun to see not only inside the Enclaves, but also to witness the "ordinary" life of wizards, with magical cars that allow them to find a parking spot even in the heart of New York City, and everything else we had not glimpsed before when El was at school. “Except the girl Orion loved wasn’t a gentle, kind healer, she was a sorceress of mass destruction who on two occasions had already managed to shred maw-mouths apart, and the stupid bloody fool could have tried trusting me to do it again.”I especially enjoyed seeing more of El’s mom, who is the exact opposite of her daughter in her many ways. It was fun to see what life was like on their communal compound in Wales and how they lived in their yurt and worked in the woods. I also loved the peeks at El’s mother’s magic as well. So much of it relies on trusting in the good of the universe and it was nice to finally see more of the woman who shaped El into the determinedly "good" dark sorceress she is today. I would have really liked to see more of this magic, but I guess there simply was not enough time.As El travels from enclave to enclave, she uncovers the dark secrets of how these safe havens for wizards are created in the first place. The Golden Enclaves goes hard on the questioning of sacrificing the few for the greater good of the many. I’ve seen a lot of other reviewers praising the introspection on this theme, but I have to say, I didn’t find this surface level examination that scintillating. I feel that this moral conundrum is something that has been analyzed in entertainment time and time again and even in our real world. I also really didn’t feel that El needed yet another reason to violently feel she stood on the moral high ground, as she always believes that anyways. To me, her righteous anger and judgment was tired at this point and amounted to little more than “malia user: gross.” To the very end of the Scholomance series, El’s convictions were never truly challenged, which I think is not only a shame, but also narratively boring and playing it safe. It was ironic to me that El was still considering herself a better person than all of these Enclavers, when she herself was exhibiting some pretty questionable morals herself. Though I waited almost two entire books for El and Orion to express their romantic feelings for each other and their relationship formed one of the cornerstones of the series, I was absolutely horrified when El entered a romantic relationship with Liesel, a girl she doesn’t even like. The first time the two hooked up, El was reeling from the death of Orion and Liesel was by El's side and willing. Though I didn’t like El’s actions at all, I could at least understand that it was human, and that in her grief, she made a poor choice to sleep with someone she didn’t care for out of a desire for some temporary comfort.But when she finds out Orion Lake is alive, El goes back to him, has sex with him, and then turns around and has sex with Liesel again. It is not out of some new realized feelings for Liesel, but pure lust and convenience. I was further horrified that El never came clean to Orion about her sleeping with Liesel! Nor does she ever have a conversation with Liesel about sleeping with Orion. I honestly didn’t understand what the author was thinking with these events. Was she just trying to make El appear like an empowered bisexual queen who wasn’t afraid of sexual gratification? If so, that agenda woefully missed the mark with me, as all it did was make me like El less—a whole lot less. "Antonio said, 'You got us all out last time. You and Orion,' and my throat got tight as he spoke. 'You got us out for good, and now they’re starting a war over the bones. There’s a better way. We know there’s a better way. And you’re trying to find it. We’ll all come.'"I found myself having trouble even coming to terms that that storyline with Liesel was even in the realm of possibility and was actually happening. And like in the previous novel, The Last Graduate, I also struggled to believe how positively helpful all of El’s former classmates were being. Despite being from different Enclaves and being on the brink of an all out Enclave war, the classmates are all tripping over themselves to help El. She doesn’t encounter a single classmate who is unwilling to help her, which just seemed unrealistic and far too easy to me. I also had to question how much of what occurred in The Golden Enclaves was really planned from the very beginning of the series. I wonder if the revelations of the origins of Orion’s massive mal-killing power and how Enclaves were created were intended to be that way from the very getgo or if it was something thought up at the end; I could honestly see it either way—planned or not. Regardless of whether these things were actually premeditated, I found the conclusion resulting from them and to the series as a whole, to be unsatisfying. “I imagine it’s always easier to do something monstrous if you can convince yourself you aren’t going to, up to the last minute, until you do.”I was disappointed that El never really had a huge face off with any kind of big evil, like Ophelia Lake, who is clearly supposed to be El’s literary foil, but never quite achieves it. It’s been built up throughout the Scholomance trilogy that El has so much power and could be the greatest darkest sorceress who ever lives, and though I never wanted her to turn evil, she never once backslides or is forced to make a decision that compromises her ideals to be strictly a mana practitioner. Up until the very end of The Golden Enclaves>, El herself considers how easy it would be for her to slip into using malia magic, her classmates stress the importance of keeping her tethered to using strictly mana, and its hinted that she would be even more powerful that Ophelia Lake herself, but not once do these hints go remotely anywhere. I think it would have been far more interesting if El had loved Orion enough to compromise on those morals, to maybe even dip a toe into malia usage. Perhaps she was offered a way to save him by his mother that forces her to make the ultimate sacrifice to her holier-than-thou ideals. I imagined even if Orion and El had ended up on opposing sides, even if for a little while, and the destruction this kind of battle would wreak on both the wizarding and mundane worlds. Instead, Orion, who has very little actual page time or dialogue, somehow manages to implicitly trust El throughout, even though she has proved herself unworthy of his confidence and faith in her by cheating on him multiple times. And El is never even remotely tempted to take the easy way out even to save the boy she loves or her friends. What a wasted opportunity for character development and drama, in my opinion, for El to so securely sit on her moral high horse. What’s worse than these giant missed opportunities is that the ending we are given sees Orion forever bound to the revamped Scholomance, with El visiting her paramour every once in a while between trips out to destroy maw mouths and rebuild enclaves. Another reviewer, Phoung aptly compared this ending to that of Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann’s lackluster ending at the conclusion of The Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy. No one liked this type of ending then, so it baffles the mind that any writer would repeat it now. And I shudder to think about poor Orion’s feelings when he finds out El has been repeatedly unfaithful to him. While The Golden Enclaves was not all bad, it was certainly not the wrap-up to the series for which I had hoped. I ended up disliking El, whom I initially loved so much back in the very first entry of the series, A Deadly Education . Though I am glad I saw the series through to the very end, I found that tragically, the series never quite realized its full potential, whether with El’s powers, El and Orion’s relationships, Ophelia Lake as El’s foil, and the destruction of the enclaves.Connect with Me:bloggingwithdragons.com My Book Review Policy| instagram | tumblr | twitter |pinterest | facebook | email |
4985261809	DNF @ 35% I’m trying to compile my thoughts on this one. Books one and two were 5-star reads for me. I can barely put into words my disappointment right now.The short of it is, I’m uncomfortable reading a story that has forced queer representation inserted in what I feel is a tasteless and flawed way.I hate even saying this! I pretty much NEVER trash other authors. In fact, I usually stay silent. But clearly I feel so strongly that I’ve got to say something. The story was actually going well, until it suddenly nose-dived out of NOWHERE. My eyes were bulging and I was like, “Wait, WHAT?!”Warning! Spoilers ahead:When El believes Orion is dead, she waits one week before having sex with a girl she doesn’t even like or get along with, who didn’t even bring much meaning to the previous books. Sure, fine, causal sex.I feel utterly BETRAYED, for my sake and for Orion’s sake! She was IN LOVE WITH HIM. And he died a week ago. She lost her virginity to him in the previous book. She’s an 18 year old girl. And she has meaningless sex with someone. It just felt so unrealistic and out of character. And it also seemed the author was trying so hard to rationalize it but that completely failed. I literally felt nothing but OUTRAGE. I’ve read some amazing sapphic books. This F/F action felt like an insertion for the sake of checking a “diversity” box and not something intentional and meaningful. In other words, the execution felt all kinds of WRONG.Never mind that Orion has apparently JUST died and she loves him. Feeling utterly shocked, wondering if it was just me? Or if I was NOT alone here, I got on goodreads. I looked up spoilers. This is something I NEVEREVER DO. But I did, only to find out that El manages to rescue Orion (surprise surprise, he’s not dead! I never believed he was!) and what happens when she rescues him? She has sex with him. Okay, great. That’s all fine because I’m all for reuniting-sex. Except!!!!! TWO FREAKING DAYS LATER she has sex with Liesel AGAIN?! Seriously? You can imagine how my outrage is now deepening as I’m discovering these spoilers. Considering this is a YA book, it felt like it was doing the opposite of teaching about meaningful relationships. It also felt like it was callously throwing in a F/F to get more ratings so that it filled a diversity quota rather than intentionally setting out to fill that diversity quota with a deeply developed emotional and meaningful F/F relationship that was just TOSSED IN AS AN AFTERTHOUGHT.Is it even queer diversity if it’s just an afterthought??I digress.El is in love with Orion. She discovers he’s alive. They’re a couple. And she goes and has sex with Liesel a SECOND time?!? I don’t care WHO she is having sex with. Diversity attempt aside, that’s cheating IMO. It’s tasteless, IMO. It’s also very out of character for her, or maybe I don’t know her at all. Orion is basically the reason I love this series so much. His relationship and dynamic with El held up the entire series for me (first two books). The fact that the entire third book is hardly spent with them together, peppered with these poor attempts at queer representation, is a huge turn-off and I just cannot finish reading this. Like, I literally feel icky thinking about her cheating on him twice. Or once, if you consider her belief in his death. But for me, it felt like twice. I don’t condone cheating. And for an 18 year old, with little relationship experience, I would imagine sex is more monumental of an act than someone at my age of 33. And yet, in this book it’s suddenly casually tossed around, which is completely different than it was treated in the first two. WTF?*disclaimer: you’re talking to someone who just finished reading Court of the Vampire Queen which had endless M/M/M/F action. I’m no prude.*As far as I’m concerned, this should have stayed 2 books, Orion should have gotten out at the end of the second book, there should have been an epilogue where they start establishing golden enclaves together. BOOM. Done. Instead, this felt like an attempt to milk a series without adding a new meaningful installment. I love Novik’s Uprooted and Spinning Silver. They’re some of my favorites of all time. Unfortunately she should have just quit while she was ahead.
4316717733	Fuck off with that ending. 😒 I'm so ....mad, yeah mad or disappointed or something.
5015156448	she really blew this one
3693879210	ARC copy provided in exchange for an honest review. This in no way changes my rating or review.<Post-read review:>I was a little disappointed by this conclusion to such an interesting trilogy, to be honest. I loved three things about the first two books in this series: my himbo golden retriever Orion, the fascinating setting of a school infested with monsters, and El's intense hatred for people (and her refusal to hide that hatred). But it almost seemed like this book removed all three of those aspects - Orion did not nearly get enough screentime (view spoiler)[ and his golden retriever energy had vanished, along with the gain of his vaguely cannibalistic monster powers?? (hide spoiler)], El had to save the world (what has the world ever done for El...), and the school was gone. It wasn't all bad - Naomi Novik's fascinating storytelling style was still present, with gorgeous imagery amongst the (insane amount of) inner monologue. Exhibition A:"If the garden above was a fairy tale, there was another story being told in this place, one where the children never came home, and smiling wizards drank a soup of bones."But I couldn't even properly enjoy the world, because honestly I don't think I was smart enough for this book. I had no idea what was happening 80% of the time, and I simply didn't have the IQ to try and read between the lines and understand the plot of this book.Look, I can see why people would have enjoyed this, had they the brains to understand what was happening. But that wasn't me, and the loss of Orion for the majority of this book was a blow. And I loved the bi rep, but not so much the cheating vibes? This one wasn't for me! I loved the rest of the series though. Thank you to the author, publisher and netgalley for the ARC copy :).~~~<pre-read review:> i love that i just got accepted for an arc for this and it was literally released in 2022… anyway i guess i’m reading this one next!!
4702687568	I am so gutted this series is over. This was incredible! Honestly the world building and the lore is so well thought out and interesting that I just wanna stay here forever. I love El’s POV and her narration so much and god this was just a great ending to the series. I feel like I can’t say much or I’ll spoil it!!I wasn’t sure what to expect going into this book bc when I read the 2nd I assumed it was a duology but how the last book ended just??? Screaming! The plot of this one was honestly so so interesting, I’m glad there was a 3rd book and I just have no words…none…just my god please read this trilogy please!
4284212159	Excuse me but it’s very rude that this book isn’t out yet
3736408247	I loved these scholomance books. However, this book was more concretely about the themes of capitalism and social apathy than the previous books were. In the first two books, we were treated to descriptions of translucent monsters hiding on a food tray at the school for young wizards. Here, the school is basically gone-- abandoned after El's plan was carried out by the entire student body at the end of last book.So, instead, we watch El's grieving process. Then we watch her slowly reconnect with other graduates.Throughout, we deal with the weighty questions of whether El should ever compromise her values for the sake of the greater good. She now has the ability to build safe havens from monsters without using black magic. Should she do that with the help of an enclave, or without? Is it ethical to destroy the preexisting enclaves altogether if the people in charge are evil, but the average worker mostly is not?This book gave a backhanded explanation for why maleficaria are never good. This book suggests that the universe creates them to fill a vacuum whenever black magic is used.Still, as I mentioned in an earlier review, I don't know why no wizard tried to engineer benevolent monsters, or humanoid monsters to interbreed with. But, the real reason that didn't come up is because that isn't the story that Naomi Novik wanted to tell. We'll see if she ever decides to do a sequel series all about a certain Valedictorian's attempts to breed a superior race of humanoid, benevolent maleficaria. (That is my idea, not at all proposed in this book.)El deals with a lot of drama. And she finally gets to confront that grandma who prophesized that El would destroy the world. My favorite thing about El has always been her determination to fight against her own destiny.(view spoiler)[I did not care for the abrupt queering of El without explanation. I am gay, so I by no means have a problem with LGBTQ characters. No, my problem is when it is handled poorly. El has talked about the problems she faces as a biracial person many times. She has talked about being a social pariah. She has treated us with her thoughts about dating, and why she didn't even think she and Orion really were dating for like a year. WHY would she never tell us whether she feels bisexual? Why did she never mention it to Orion or her friends? And why, out of all possible girls to experiment with, she chose one she didn't even particularly like or trust? I hate this. It is becoming more and more common in YA fiction and I just don't get it. Finding out that you're gay can be hard. Even if you are okay with it, your parents or your classmates might make you feel like shit about it. THAT is what coming out is like. Fear. Guilt. Rebellion.NOT just casually engaging in same-sex sexual conduct without a word of explanation. (hide spoiler)]
5145180968	Actual rating : 4.5 "El, you’re clearly a very nice girl."She said, possibly the first time in my entire life that anyone had said that to me sincerely, and wasn’t it delightful to find someone speaking from a vantage point that made it possible. Naomi Novik is a talented story teller; and tbh I have not many last-book-in-series that meet my expectations, for some reason, I find second books the best one most of the time! This one was a decent one though! Again not the best but I don't feel disappointed either!
5020704811	Got this for free and still feel like I wasted money.
4504427151	My wife got an ARC which I borrowed and devoured. Absolutely glorious. It feels like an ending but I wouldn't be opposed to more.
4290477244	** spoiler alert ** Man, this book was a lot harder to get through than the others. Here are my three main reasons why (spoilers included):1) The setting. I felt like the book suffered from the same problem as the seventh Harry Potter book, when Harry, Ron, and Hermione spent all that time camping in forests trying to find Horcruxes. Just like Hogwarts was a big part of the fun of the Harry Potter series, the Scholomance was a fun part of this one. Once the Scholomance was gone, the book lost a lot of its charm. 2) Overpowered MC. El felt too powerful. I was never worried about her handling any challenge. She could kill a maw mouth with a sentence. She could defeat any wizard (who had years more experience, artifices, and followers) in a blink of an eye. In the other books, she had to work to get mana and make things happen. In this book, it was all easy, and because of that, I never felt like there were huge stakes. 2) The romance. El and Orien’s relationship was one of my favorite parts of the last two books, and they are barely together at all in this book. Instead we get a weird and unnecessary Leisel-El relationship, which adds nothing to the book and could honestly just be lifted out and have very little effect. The only thing it made me feel is irritated at El. A week after her boyfriend dies, she’s sleeping with someone she didn’t even like in the last book and who she has only really gotten to know over the last day or two. Then right when her boyfriend comes back, El sleeps with him, then sleeps with Leisel AGAIN. And it’s never talked about. Orien never even knows about it. I feel like if the roles were switched and El was stuck in the Scholomance while Orien slept with people to get over his grief, El would have been outraged and it would have been a big plot point. It felt like Naomi Novik just wanted to make El bisexual to make her more diverse/relatable, but instead it made her character seem kind of callous. The casual cheating with absolutely no consequences or relevance to the plot made the original romance set up in the first two books fall completely flat, and ruined a lot of the good things about the series. It didn’t help that I wasn’t a huge fan of Leisel to begin with. I felt like her character vacillated between being calculating and disconnected to being a worldwide femme fatale who uses her body to get what she needs and wants to have sex at every possible moment alone with El. It felt like she was two different people sometimes, honestly. There were satisfying parts in the book, too. The ending was good, except for a really long info-dump right before the climatic final battle. Figuring out more about enclaves was interesting. The scene where El returned to Mumbai was good. I’m glad to have finished the book, so I know what happened, but it’s not a book I would read again. It’s a bummer because this was one of my favorite series—I even bought the first two books—but I just really didn’t like this last installment.
6342612867	"It was like old fairy-tale illustrations of gardens, where the flowers and vines and trees just pile up improbably on top of one another, everything blooming at once and forever in blithe disregard of the laws of nature."the writing was just phenomenal.
5024103772	I read this book the day it came out, because I couldn’t wait to find out what happened next in this trilogy. I’m a big fan of Novik’s work; how I love His Majesty’s Dragon (a great portrait of a Questioner and an Upholder, by the way).
3656762004	4.5 starsOverall I really liked this novel, though I probably prefer the first two instalments in the series a bit more. The first half of The Golden Enclaves could have perhaps been 5% shorter and the last half would have likely benefited from being roughly 15%-20% longer. The final conflict and resulting conclusion of the book probably should have been more epic and detailed than it was. Regardless, this was still a great end to an amazing series.I like how most things circle back to be important in this series, but maw-mouths we’re just a tad too central to the entire narrative in my opinion. I’m not sure a single monster/mal besides maw-mouths even appeared in this book. I do love that the author was ambitious enough to make this novel a three week long international thrill ride, compared to the half year long stories of the first two books that took place exclusively in one large building. In fact, the international nature of the settings in this book was a highlight.However, I think because the story takes place in so many different parts of the world, and El never stays in any of these places for too long, a lot of characters pop into the story briefly and then never come back, leaving the book feeling a little unfinished. I actually love stories that don’t need every character to be in every scene, however this novel is written in first person, so the reader is limited to whatever (or whoever) El is near. So I actually think this book may have benefited from giving Liu, Aad, Liesel, Chloe and Orion some POV chapters. Especially since all of them are directly connected to the main plot, but once again, their scenes in the story are limited to whether or not they are in earshot of El, due to the book’s first person perspective. This also means that there is a bit of dissonance between the reader and certain conflicts. For example, Ophelia as a villain could have been even more effective, but she’s barely in the book and most of her narrative revolves around Orion (who doesn’t have a POV), so we (the readers) don’t get as much nuance from her character as we could have if she had more scenes interacting with Balthazar, Orion, Chloe, and others. The Beijing Enclave plot-line was also connected far more closely to Liu than El, and may have hit closer to home if we got a chapter about it from Liu’s perspective.It’s also worth noting that the best dynamics in A Deadly Education and The Last Graduate were El’s friendship with Aadhya and Liu, and her relationship with Orion. Both of which got limited page time and connection in The Golden Enclaves. Which is unfortunate, because aside from El’s mother they have more direct connection to El than any other character. Other characters such as Liesel were fun to include, but didn’t need anywhere near as much page time as they got. All in all, I was hoping that Chloe as a character would have a chance to develop a bit more so her arc could complete, but she was barely in this book, which kind of made her presence in the series as a whole a bit meaningless. Some other tertiary characters from the previous two books like Marcus, Nykoyo, etc seemed to be almost forgotten. While various other characters introduced in this book, such as Ophelia, Yancy and Shangfen were really cool, but due to limited page time didn’t get the opportunity to fully shine. In terms of plot and pacing, I would say the first half was ever so slightly too long, and the somewhat rushed 3rd act is where most of my complaints come from. I think this book could have easily been 50-100 pages longer, and it would have been for the better of not just the narrative, but also the characters and their various dynamics with each other. As per usual I love El and Orion’s relationship, and a welcome surprise was El and Liesel’s dynamic.The world-building as always, is wonderful. I just wish I got a bit more out of it besides only Maw-mouths. Although, a particular journey from a certain enclave through the void, was incredible. And I have to say, Naomi Novik plots this series with her lore in mind, which means the twists and payoff to so many unanswered questions inevitably always comes and ends up being just as satisfying as you could hope.All in all, The Golden Enclaves is a great urban fantasy novel, that dials up the anti-establishment messaging of the previous entries in the series. Naomi Novik understands exactly how dark academia as a sub-genre should be used to display how elitist establishments benefit the rich and powerful at the expense of everyone else, and her Scholomance trilogy is a testament to that. Nuanced social commentary that doesn’t outright paint everyone as 100% right or wrong, but also manages to not be preachy when discussing the best path forward is hard to do well, but it’s done well here. I also think the author has come a long way, and has managed to include more diversity in her writing in a meaningful way. Making the protagonist for a story such as this a bisexual biracial woman is appropriate, but could have come across as tone deaf if done incorrectly. However, I believe some of the (valid) criticisms about how she’s written diversity in previous books in the series has been carefully heard and headed.It’s safe to say Naomi Novik has cemented herself as one of my favourite authors. I believe I can also confidently say she’s one of the best fantasy writers in the industry at the moment. As always, I’ll be keeping an eye out for any future projects coming from her, because I absolutely loved this series! I can confidently say that I will be back to re-read the Scholomance trilogy some time in the future, and I hope I enjoy just as much as I did the first time.
5566068512	Me gustó el final.Había leído unas reseñas donde decía que esta tercera parte empezaba lenta y luego se hacía más rápida la lectura. Luego también leí otra reseña donde decía que empezaba rápido y se hacía más lenta la lectura. Literal dos puntos de vista totalmente opuestos.¿Qué opino yo? Que comienza rápido y te engancha (solamente por el final del segundo libro, que sigo en shock btw). Después se hace lento y luego se vuelve a hacer rápida la lectura. Así lo sentí.Yo tengo que confesar, durante todo el libro pensé, que la autora iba a hacer algo y estaba con el Jesús, María y José en la boca todo el tiempo. Pero no lo hizo (y no les diré qué). Pero si pensé que eso iba a pasar y en cierto momento me resigné a que iba a pasar, pero no. Y mi alma respiro, porque tuvo el final que yo quería.Si siento que muchas cosas se pasaron muy rápido, sobre todo al final. Siento que sí se resolvió fácil y me hubiera gustado más drama (¿sorprendidos?) porque yo no. Hay algo que hace El en este libro que sigo indignada (en parte), no me gustó, pero bueno. No la culpo.El es mi personaje favorito de toda la trilogía, solo por tener a una protagonista como ella hace que la lectura sea merecedora de su tiempo. Pero repito. No es una trilogía ni unos libros para todos.
4810961614	A beautiful ending for Naomi Novik's Scholomance trilogy. Everything you hope for and dread. Friendships made in the Scholomance becoming life long alliances and loyalty. I love the characters and their striving to right some of the wrongs in their world. It made me laugh and cry. I will miss this world and these characters.Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for an ARC.
5534070362	Bueno, pues sencillamente ha sido increíble. Mis dieces, Naomi, por un momento pensé que la ibas a liar pero al final ha sido precioso y mágico y oscuro y borde. Lo que yo quería y lo que se me había prometido <3
5018422484	A good but not great conclusion to a fantastic series.(spoilers for the previous books, then general spoilers and some detailed marked spoilers for TGE. If anyone reads this rant, just know that the spoilers get thicker the further you wade in)It was always going to be hard, if not almost impossible, to satisfy the fans who loved Scholomance as a grim but fascinating setting with this third book. It starts with El getting out, along with almost everyone else, so right away the setting becomes the entire world and El and a few friends end up travelling across the globe several times in a few weeks. It makes for an oddly placeless story, with El spending a lot of time travelling and worrying and being extremely angry. If you enjoy rage-filled internal monologues (and I rather do) you'll find a lot to enjoy here.The first thing I didn't love about this book was the thematically apt but increasingly more overt question of what you would do to keep yourself and your family safe. By creating a world where wizard children are at such incredible peril of dying horrifically Novik has created a world where, naturally, the parents are under incredible stress and pressure to do almost anything to keep them safe. So, the ways the Enclave system is built on such terrible sin isn't exactly a shock of any kind. It doesn't help that El, and the reader, have seen nothing but constant examples of how abusive - economically, socially, physically - the Enclaves are so finding out oh hey they are *even worse!* than you knew isn't really the shock it might have been. Then, we have long, ultimately a bit dull conversations where El finds out a bit more about how messed up the wizard world is. How evil the creation of Enclaves is. How awful the people in charge are... and yet, we always are aware of why. I am not a parent, but if I was and I knew that there was a 90% chance my kids would be EATEN ALIVE BY MONSTERS during adolescence I'd be pretty willing to do outrageous shit too! The constant drum beat of El's knowledge of this and also her deep and justified hatred of the system gets a bit much by the end of the story. Sure, it's great to have the answers, but to me it was all a bit of overkill somehow. The truth of Orion and his parents are similar to me. It's beyond awful, and yet after a while it losses the impact. The queasiness of (view spoiler)[Ophelia's magical experiment (crushing a foetus to make it a maw-mouth then rebuilding it to look like a normal boy felt unpleasantly like anti-abortion fanfic) was one thing, but we already knew she was horrible... (hide spoiler)] and ooh yeah her goals were somewhat noble? And she suffers absolutely no ill consequences for arranging the murder of dozens of children, but even gets promoted? It just felt off.Other things I didn't really like: - how El's mom wasn't much around. I enjoyed her sacrifice and simple wisdom, so for her to not be a big part of what El was doing was a miss for me personally. - Orion being essentially a tertiary character. His relationship with El was such a wonderful part of the first two books, and then he's just gone for almost the entire final book. Hugely disappointing. - Ok ok, I gotta say... (view spoiler)[I hated El having sex with Liesel twice. The first time? Felt odd but I could roll with it, she was in a horrible place. It made me think Liesel was a truly gross person to take advantage of El in that position, but Liesel was always almost sociopathically disinclined to care about other people's feelings in her own pursuit so fair enough. The second time I was really disappointed. You can argue that El and Orion were not truly a couple, but come on. They had found each other again, professed their love, been torn apart and then El is like you know what a quickie in the airplane doesn't count right. (hide spoiler)] Just not what I wanted to read on so many levels!- also in the relationship side: (view spoiler)[The end of the book was a bit of a let down to me, but then El goes to meet Orion again. They seem happy, but Orion is basically a 24/7 guard dog in Scholomance now? Oh great, he gets a couple of months off in summer? What the hell? And El is going to do her maw-mouth/enclave redemption tour and what, sleep with someone whenever she gets bored or lonely or stressed out? But Orion is the only adult in wizard kid jail, so rough deal for him, but he's never shown the slightest interest, romantic or physical, in anyone else. It may be he was totally ok with that arrangement, or that El was committed to an honest and open relationship with him after she told him about Liesel, but there was not one word in the book about their future plans together so we just don't know. We don't know what, if anything, El told Orion or how or even if they are moving forward together as anything other than friends. Felt very sad to me after rooting so hard for those two in the first couple of books but I guess Novik disagrees. (hide spoiler)] Again, this is my own old-man fussiness kicking in perhaps. But it really was a bummer to me obviously, I had to make an account on Goodreads JUST to talk about it to myself haha.Ultimately, this was a fantastic series. Two almost perfect books, and a conclusion I didn't love but still enjoyed mostly. I remain a huge fan of Ms Novik's work and I can't wait for her next book, but I need to find a very basic, simple, low stakes fantasy romance now maybe ;).
6046841223	4★ I had such a great time reading the first two books with all the mystery and complexity to its magic system, tbh I was expecting the story to go a bit darker and more sinister but all in all it was captivating, liked the new characters and it had a surprising end with a good wrap up to the trilogy . I would recommend the Scholomance series for sure! 𖤐 ⭒๋࣭ ⭑ 𖤐⭒๋࣭ ⭑ 𖤐 ⭒๋࣭ ⭑ 𖤐⭒๋࣭ ⭑ 𖤐⭒๋࣭ ⭑ 𖤐 ⭒๋࣭ ⭑ 𖤐⭒๋࣭
5068013602	This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/This was an excellent way to wrap up a very enjoyable trilogy! I had no idea where the story would go after the events of the previous book and was eager to see the fate of some of the characters. At the start of the book, El is in a bad place since she is so worried about Orion. El and some of her friends devise a plan to save their classmate and end up learning quite a few things that were quite surprising.I feel like I have been on quite the journey with El, Orion, and the rest of the gang. The characters have all grown a lot over the course of the story. I thought that this installment had all of the action and excitement that I have come to expect from the series. I once again listened to the audiobook and thought that Anisha Dadia did a wonderful job with the narration. I think that her voice is perfect for this group of characters and am certain that her narration added to my enjoyment of the story.I received a review copy of this audiobook from Penguin Random House Audio.
