2627340404	My original review of this wasn't much of anything, because I believed (and still kind of do) that everything worth saying about this book has been said.However, there are things that I believe no one should say emerging in real time, and so contributing my likely already-expressed thoughts might counterbalance them, to some degree.In my first foray at writing about this (which you can still see below), I focused on the immersion of it. I said I "loved" its characters, though of course I meant more that I loved them as figures, considering they are unlikable murderers. I wrote about it vaguely and glowingly, thinking everyone had sort of...gotten the point of the book, already.But then I read this review in Gawker, so I'm coming back.The Secret History follows mainly our narrator, Richard, as he looks back on his time in the classics program of a liberal arts college. Richard is unhappy, impressionable, desperate. His values are more ideas than ideals - vague and dim reflections of what love, and beauty, and wisdom, concepts he's never known, might feel or look like, rather than what they are.He arrives at his preppy and prestigious(ish) New England college to slowly become obsessed and then part of the mysterious and selective classics program, a cultlike group of trust fund babies led by an often-overstepping and charismatic professor. Coming from a poor and abusive background, where beauty is nowhere to be found, Richard wants nothing more than to immerse and lose himself in this group of wealthy and charming students. He wants to befriend them, to sleep with them, to live with them, to do everything he can to become them. Including, as they indulge in ever-spiraling hedonism, murder.And it never works.When our story ends, our group is decimated, some members dead, some irrevocably changed, all unwilling to return to the story of that fateful year - all except Richard, who is unable to leave it behind.When I hear this, I don't believe that the point of the story, or what Tartt is trying to tell us, is that a love of beauty is equivalent to an amoral life. I don't think she condemns an appreciation for the aesthetic, or even a classical scholarship. I don't think you're supposed to like these characters, or even think they're very realistic - they are, after all, portraits in hindsight written by someone in the throes of unrequited obsession.I don't think you're supposed to relate to them, or to see their story as something that might happen to you if you read too much Greek myth or like pretty things too much.To quote the article that inspired the fit of rage that has me typing away, I don't think this is "about all the things [its writer] loved," while "miss[ing] the point of them entirely." At the age of seventeen, they continue, they "wanted (I thought) exactly what its youthful characters wanted: a poetic life, a mythic life, a life shot through with meaning. I loved (I thought) exactly what its characters loved: nostalgic emblems of an era imagined as significant."To that I say: huh?As I grow older, I care less for lovely or perfect or nice or even good (in the moral definition of the word) characters, and find myself only wanting to read about the unlikable, the complex, the ones who have something to say on what I shouldn't do, rather than teach me about what I should.It was clear to me that The Secret History is not the latter example, but the former.Our merry band of classics fetishists may think they are living a life of poetry and meaning, but we, the readers, know they aren't. We know that life's beauty lies not in pleasure without regard for others, in the fulfillment of selfish desires, but in case we get confused, Donna Tartt shows us that a life lived by those guidelines leads to irrevocably damaged relationships, unfading pain, and death.The Secret History is not a nihilistic book because its characters' behaviors result in no meaning. Quite the opposite - it is a book about what makes life meaningful by showing us what meaning is not.The Gawker piece quotes a Tartt essay in which she writes, “'Something in the spirit longs for meaning — longs to believe in a world order where nothing is purposeless, where character is more than chemistry, and people are something more than a random chaos of molecules,'” and in this vein concludes, "To take Tartt the essayist seriously is to wager on that meaning. Even if that means leaving Hampden behind."And I would agree. To find meaning, one must leave Hampden behind - for it was never intended that what happened there should be lived by as example. (I also think there's something very interesting in the class dynamics here. But I'll save that for the next time I get mad enough to write almost 1,000 words.)Bottom line: Book so nice I reviewed it twice.------------book club updatethis is the july pick for the beautiful world book club!! elle and i will be vibing amidst the dark academia and the gluttony and the classics. please join us!!------------original reviewHere is the problem with reviewing every book I read: Sometimes I throw around terms before I really need them, and then once I read THE book, The Story that requires and deserves that descriptor, I have nothing to give it.https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...Right now I have this problem. Because I have used the word “immersive” before, and immediately upon my completion of this book it became clear that I should have saved it for right now.I felt like I lived inside these pages. I felt like I began to think in the beautiful and sharp prose that fills them. I felt like I knew the characters, ate decadent lunches and walked the snowy campus and whispered with them. I felt an aching emptiness, a genuine longing, when I read the final words.I miss living here.This was very, very slow - to the point that about halfway through I said (inexplicably, aloud), “I don’t know what they’ll even do for the rest of the book” - and yet I was gripped by it.It’s genuinely masterful.I love Richard and I LOVE Camilla and I love Francis and I, fine, okay, at least like Charles and Henry and even Bunny and Julian.And I miss them all.This is an incredible work, but maybe the most incredible thing is how the reader is Richard. I, too, miss my bygone days at my prestigious New England college with my whip-smart group of eccentric friends, and, like him, I am too quickly forced to realize the fallacy of such a feeling.After all, it was all a fiction.Bottom line: I’m raising this to a five star rating.------------pre-reviewyou'll have to excuse me, i'd love to actually write something here but my brain is broken and i am incapable of thought.also seems absurd to try to use words when donna tartt took all the good ones.review to come / 4.5 stars------------currently-reading updatesme: *is slightly behind on my reading challenge*also me: *starts a 600-page book*
2232080830	“Beauty is terror. Whatever we call beautiful, we quiver before it.” I have never read anything like this book in my entire life. I laid in bed for over an hour last night upon finishing this book, just tossing and turning and thinking about everything I just consumed. I still don’t think I can put my feelings into words, but I can honestly say this book was a cathartic experience for me, and the irony of the word “catharsis” being a Greek rooted word is not lost on me, because if this book is anything it’s a modern day Greek tragedy. The Secret History is told in a unique style, which is a man reminiscing on some significant events that took place in his college life a bit over a year ago. So, we follow a younger version of Richard, who is finally starting his life away from his abusive and poor family in California. He gets accepted into an elite college in Vermont, and moves across the county in hopes of a fresh start. Upon arriving to the college, Richard is denied entry into an Ancient Greek course, because the professor that teaches it only allows enrollment to his small, handpicked, group of students that seem almost cult-like. Needless to say, Richard becomes utterly obsessed with the five students in this group and the professor, Julian Morrow, himself. And with a turn of good luck, and by solving a Greek problem, Richard is accepted into this exclusive group.Yet, in the prologue we find out that Richard, and four others from the group, murdered one of the other students who they are supposed to have a very close friendship with. The Secret History is then told in two parts, one being the events that took place leading up to the death of their fellow classmate, and then one part being all the events that take place after he is murdered. Bunny is the poor soul that is unfortunately murdered by his peers, yet he’s a racist bigot and you’ll be kind of happy he’s dead, for the most part. Richard, as stated in all the paragraphs above, is the narrator looking back on the events that took place. Henry is my personal favorite, but perhaps the worst of the bunch. Or maybe the best, I’m not really sure, but that’s truly the beauty of this story. Twins, Charles and Camilla. Charles is a bad alcoholic and drug user, and Camilla steals most people’s heart and/or affection. And lastly, we have Francis, who owns a country home that is the stage for many events that take place in this book. Oh, and everyone but Richard has money, even though Richard tries his damnedest to keep that a secret. “What we did was terrible, but still I don't think any of us were bad, exactly; chalk it up to weakness on my part, hubris on Henry’s, too much Greek prose composition – whatever you like.” All the characters are morally grey to just generally horrible people, but you completely ignore it because Donna Tartt weaves this hypnotic spell with her writing, that you feel like you are reading this book in a dream like lull. The Secret History is unlike anything I’ve ever read before, and I’m not sure I’ll ever read anything quite like it again. I also want to touch upon sexuality in this book, because a lot of the members in this group are not straight in the slightest. Like, maybe the only ones that were completely straight were Bunny and Camilla. I’m not saying that the queerness in this book is vilified, but it’s for sure not shown in the best of lights. So please use caution while going into this.And this book is so very heavy in general, so please use caution while reading. Content/Trigger warnings for slut shaming, use of the R word, homophobia, hate speech, fatphobic comments, racist comments, animal cruelty, sexual assault, incest, performing rituals, suicide, alcoholism, drug abuse, and murder.I know this review is probably not one of my best, and I know I’m being super vague about all these big themes, but this book is just on a whole other level. Maybe this book is about five new adults dealing with the consequences of murder in a very human and realistic way. Maybe it’s about how we are all just trying to fit in and find family, by whatever unhealthy means available and/or possible. Maybe this book is about birth and death and how important the time between those two points truly is. But I do believe with my whole heart that this book would best be experienced blind, and to just go in and feel all the feelings that Donna Tartt will serve you.While finishing the book, me and Paloma had a discussion about the ending and how Greek heroes’ tales normally go. We talked about how murder taints everything, and how blood is the only thing that can purify it. We talked about how wearing masks is so important, yet death is another mask that we will all eventually wear. God, I’m being so cryptic, but if you’ve read the book maybe this paragraph will mean something to you, because it means the world to me. Overall, I know I sound like a broken record, but this was one of the most unique reading experiences of my life. I honest to God just do not have the words to put in this review how this book made me feel. I will say that it very much feels like a spell is being cast upon you while reading. Like, I am almost positive that Donna Tartt cannot be a human being, because she is such an exclusive enigma. Also, I think I’ve developed a huge crush on her, so there’s that at least. I can say very confidently that I will remember this book, and the feelings it gave me while reading, for the rest of my life. “Beauty is rarely soft or consolatory. Quite the contrary. Genuine beauty is always quite alarming.” Blog | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Twitch Buddy read with Paloma! ❤
879403201	Thank god it's over. I don't think I can surpass the review Nick wrote earlier tonight, but here goes . . . The good:--This book is well-written, at least in a certain contextless sense. There are many sentences in it (occasionally, even paragraphs) that, if taken by themselves, look like they might have been from a book worth reading.--At least two of the central characters (I'm thinking of Bunny and Henry) are vividly portrayed and interesting figures. (Unfortunately, one of them dies halfway through -- that's not a spoiler, as it's revealed in the prologue -- and the other largely fades from view in the second half.)--There's at least a 200-page stretch in which the book is an exciting page-turner. (Unfortunately, it's over 500 pages long.)The bad:--Besides the two characters mentioned above, the others are frustratingly thin. Francis has no personality traits besides being stereotypically gay; Camilla has no personality traits besides being a generic female love interest (in a completely unappealing subplot that seems to have been included on the Hollywood logic that no story is complete without the protagonist falling in love) and thus having a putatively alluring reticence and mystique; I'm not sure Charles has any discernible personality traits at all. These three characters are rarely absent -- at least one of them appears in virtually every scene -- and given that it's almost impressive how poorly developed they are. Other characters suffer for the opposite reason -- for instance, Julian, the charismatic professor who teaches Greek to the central characters, exerts a supposedly profound influence on their worldviews but barely seems to exist in the story itself.--The story's climax occurs around halfway through, and the remaining ~250 pages are devoted to an absurdly long series of tacky soap opera plotlines that appear and then disappear every 20 pages. The subject matter of these storylines -- incest, drunk driving, stealing drugs from someone's grandmother (!), smoking pot and worrying that someone's mom is going to find out (!!) -- feel so strainingly lurid and/or stereotypically teenage, and so irrelevant to the themes of the first half, that it often felt like some moral tract about Bad Teens Doing Drugs had been spliced onto the end of a totally different book.--The biggest flaw, which was what really ruined the book for me: the style of the narration does not fit the subject matter. This is a book about a group of wealthy and pompous but otherwise ordinary college students committing murder in cold blood. Surely someone looking back on such an act would be plunged into a bunch of somewhat abstract reflections on how they came to do they things they did, what led them to get involved with their co-conspirators, what this all means about them as a person and a moral actor, etc. But that isn't the kind of book Tartt wants to write. She wants to write in a contemporary litfic / creative writing style in which abstract ideas about human behavior are conveyed only implicitly, through character behaviors and well-chosen details — “show, don’t tell.”So you get all these overly mannered descriptions of the narrator noticing some shoes lying on the ground and talking about how the shoes made him feel and so forth, and you just want to say, “okay, but Richard, what does it all mean? I know you must have some big abstract thoughts about what it all means — how could you not? — and I don’t know why won’t you just tell me about them instead of telling me about how the campus looked in spring.” There are narrators for whom this kind of bland immediacy reads as characterization, but in this case it really felt like Tartt was just snapping together two incompatible building blocks -- like she sat down one day and said “I am going to write a ‘literary novel’ and it will be about ‘ordinary people committing murder’ ” and the result was this strange incongruous thing. The book feels so much like a reductio ad absurdum of the conventions of mainstream literary fiction -- the gently controlled narrative voice, the "deftly chosen" sensory detail, the distaste for essayistic digressions -- that at times I started to wonder if I was reading a parody of the genre.There are occasional attempts to provide a moral or conceptual gloss on the whole thing, as when, in the very first paragraph, the narrator declares that his "tragic flaw" is "a morbid longing for the picturesque at all costs." But ideas like this aren't borne out by the narrative itself -- we never get a sense of what the narrator means by "the picturesque," and his bland, passive behavior doesn't seem to be characterized by a "morbid longing" for anything. Which brings me to my final point . . .--Lots of wasted potential. Some of the subject matter here is really interesting: say, the idea of people who try to apply an ancient Greek mindset to the modern world, or the question of how a group of initially innocuous people could be led inexorably by circumstance to kill one of their friends. But the whole thing is just so under-analyzed, so unclear about what its ideas are even as it desperately wants to be a book about big, profound ideas. References to the difference between ancient and modern mindsets, or to various interpretations of the murder, are occasionally tossed out but never grow roots; they drown in the ocean of pointless plot. An interesting idea will crop up every 50 pages of so, and Tartt will smother it in its cradle and then write 50 more pages of binge drinking and soap opera convolutions as if in penance. It's telling that Julian, the Greek professor, shows up so rarely, because the book clearly wants to be about his worldview and the effect it had on his students, and if he'd actually made more than a few appearances Tartt might have had to clear up exactly what his worldview was and present some clear, arguable ideas about what it did to these students. What would her creative writing professors make of that? Show, don't tell!
16248361	The first paragraph of The Secret History roughly sums up the mood of the book. In it, the narrator, Richard Papen, says that he thinks his fatal flaw is 'a morbid longing for the picturesque at all costs'. If you can relate to these words, chances are you'll love The Secret History. If not, you'll probably wonder what the fuss is all about. Personally, I can totally relate to these words, so I love the book. I've read it over half a dozen times, and while I do think it has its problems, I never fail to find it utterly gripping.The Secret History is both an intellectual novel of ideas and a murder mystery without the whodunnit element. The reader learns right on the first page that Richard and his friends have killed one among their midst. The rest of the book goes on to explain how they came to their gruesome deed and what happened to them afterwards. Against all odds, it makes for compelling reading, despite the fact that you know right from the start who the killers are. Such is the power of Tartt's writing that you find yourself turning page after page, waiting for answers, justifications and possibly a sign of remorse. Once these have been dealt with, the book loses a bit of its power, but until that time, it's near perfect.Donna Tartt's great gift as a writer is her magnificent talent for description. Her evocation of life at a small private university in New England with its oddball mix of ivory-tower intellectuals and ditzy cokeheads is rich in detail, both shocking and funny. If it's not entirely realistic, she makes it so. Likewise, her skill at characterisation is superb. While Richard is not entirely convincing as a male narrator (a fact I find more noticeable every time I re-read the book), he and his friends make up a fascinating cast of characters: six aloof, self-absorbed and arrogant intellectuals who are obsessed with ancient Greece and don't particularly care for modern life. They're snobs and they have major issues, but somehow that only makes them more alluring. Together, they form the ultimate inner circle, the kind of tight-knit group you know should always stay together. Which makes it almost understandable that they should be willing to kill anyone who might jeopardise that group dynamic, incomprehensible though this may seem to the average reader.I can think of many reasons why The Secret History strikes such a chord with me. For one thing, I have a thing for timeless and ethereal stories, and this is one of those. Somehow the book has a dreamlike, almost hypnotic quality, despite it being very firmly set in the rather unromantic 1980s. I love that. For another thing, I have always been drawn to the unabashedly intellectual, and this book has that in spades. It makes geekdom alluring, and I just love Tartt for that. I wish I were as geeky as Henry!Ultimately, what I think I respond to most in The Secret History is the friendship aspect. The Secret History is very much a book about friendship. It's about the very human yearning to belong and be accepted by people we admire. It's about the sacrifices we make to keep friendships intact, the insecurity we feel when we think we might not be completely accepted by our friends after all, and the paranoia we experience when it seems our friends may have betrayed us. About the feeling of invincibility we get from having great friends, and the melancholy and loneliness that follow the disintegration of a once-great friendship. The book basically reads like an elegy on a great friendship, and one doesn't necessarily have to share Richard's intellectual attitude towards life, his morality or even his morbid longing for the picturesque to be able to relate to that. It's enough to have yearned for close friendship and been insecure in friendship. And let's face it, who hasn't?I do not think The Secret History is a perfect book. As I said, I find Richard somewhat unconvincing as a male character; there is too much about him that screams 'female author' to me. Furthermore, the ending is decidedly weak, although to be fair, I have no idea how else Tartt could have finished her book. The story does seem to be inexorably heading in that particular direction. Insofar as the ending reflects the disintegration that is going on in the characters' lives, it could probably be said to be appropriate. Still, I wish Tartt could have come up with something on a par with the rest of the book. If she had, this would have been a six-star book. I don't know many of those.
2953210460	edit: lowering my rate to 1 star because let's face it: this was awful, and boring as fuck. please, shut the fuck up. It took me 4 months to finish this book and mostly it was because I was dealing with uni and having several mental breakdowns. Also, the second part of this book was boring as fuck.My review might contain some spoilers!This was a hell of a ride. I don't even know where to begin, but let's try.I've seen a lot of hype for The Secret History everywhere. So, why not give it a try? Plus, it seems cool and the aesthetic is interesting.The first 100 pages, I must admit, were boring. It was really hard for me to get through. I blame uni and the fact that nothing interesting was going on at the moment. The fact that the climax happened around the page 200 or so and then nothing happened pissed me off. And then... That was it. Nothing. Zero. Nada, maldita sea.The only characters that I really liked died, they were Henry... and Bunny. Yes. The annoying bitch who couldn't keep his mouth shut and the only one who really reacted to a murder. Yeah, I agree that he was annoying and was a complete asshole, but was one of the only two who really had personality.The writing was mid... Until it wasn't anymore. The last 150 pages were like Tartt was writing just for the sake of it. Some things were okay, but gods, I was getting sick of those kids getting drunk, smoking like fucking chimneys and getting high. And the consecuences of it: ending up in the hospital or thinking they were going to die. I wish I had been drunk while reading this.I know I shouldn't have, but I laughed way too hard when Henry killed himself. It was so random and so funny. He tried to play the hero card and for what? Honestly, his death wasn't something memorable for me. I mean, yeah, he wasn't pretty bad and I was laughing my ass off when Richard realized that Henry had only told him what he wanted to and not the entire truth, like, how can you be so idiot, Richard? I still can't believe that Donna Tartt decided to put Richard as the mc, or even imagined him at all... This mf was boring as hell.For some reason, her characters are bland, have no personality and are really annoying. Yes, even more than that bitch of Bunny.Anyways, I'm not sorry for rating this book with 0.5 stars. If I could, I would give it 0 stars. But, yes, save yourself.
4302781512	I actually don’t even know where to start with this one 😀We follow a group of very pretentious classmates, but through the POV of a new student & the events leading up to a murder of one of them. Honestly I thought I wouldn’t be able to connect to or understand this book (not sure where that came from), but I ended up becoming so incredibly invested. The pacing is EXCRUCIATINGLY slow, but I think that worked for this story and the way it was being told to us. I was seriously just so enamored with it? My favorite part was finishing it and doom scrolling all the theories and other people’s thoughts on tik tok lol IT WAS SO FASCINATING! It really had me sitting and thinking for days after. If you love dark academia & want to become fully engrossed with a story I’d highly recommend trying it out
2783401584	‘beauty is rarely soft or consolatory. quite the contrary. genuine beauty is always quite alarming.’ and oh, how alarmingly beautiful this story is, as all the best greek tragedies tend to be; full of sorrow and struggle, but often accompanied by pure loyalty and divine inspiration. gosh. i just… i cant even right now. on the surface, this book is great. but donna tartt is an absolute goddess of writing for the sheer depth of this book. its a work of absolute brilliance. i was never a classics student but, as someone who has taken an interest in the subject over the years, i cant even express my geeky joy for how multifaceted and layered this story is. by exemplifying fatal flaws, dissecting the apollonian vs. dionysian philosophical theory, personalising the mask of death, understanding the action and stagnation of life, and realising the lifelong quest for the picturesque, this story is a modern greek tragedy and a classic in its own right. wow. i will be thinking about this book for quite some time.↠ 4.5 stars
2448673067	don't ask me why but i think that if this book were turned into a movie and its name was changed to fit the subject matter it'd run into copyright issues cause... it'd be A Goofy Movie.this shit was goofy. like a legitimate laugh. no idea what the purpose of this book was beyond a really weak commentary on academia and privilege. i certainly didn't hate it but... what was the damn point.did hate the narration though. you mean to tell me that a middle aged woman from mississippi needed to lend her voice to a californian boy in new england? um. girl, let's leave it to the voice actors.
3838397652	Judy Poovey stole every scene she was inWanna see the real locations of the Secret History? I filmed them all: https://youtu.be/tLwQO2ARFDY?si=BrUlu...
4122040890	achingly pretentious. insufferably wordy. and probably one of the best books i've ever read. i don't think i've ever wished a 600+ page book was even longer.
1171331720	I can't
3619563705	physically i'm here, but mentally i'm part of a pretentious elitist friend group in Vermont, studying Latin and Greek, having a bacchanal once a month and reciting poetry under my breath
3661833531	to be honest if i wanted the thoughts of a bunch of classist elitists who know dead classic languages I’d just have dinner with my family
1143431148	Due to my utter adoration for The Goldfinch I decided, for reasons unbeknownst to even myself, that I should give The Secret History another go. See I read it maybe four years ago, I want to say, and I wasn’t the biggest fan. And ever since then I’ve had people constantly telling me just how wrong I was about The Secret History. ‘No, no, it’s a modern classic!’ they’d say to me. Or, ‘wow it seems exactly like the type of book you’d adore.’ And they’re right, it is exactly the type of book I’d adore. So why can I not bring myself around to loving it?The Secret History is very much a tale of two novels, the split between them coming when Bunny dies. And that isn’t a spoiler, we’re told in the first line that Bunny dies. The first book being the lead up and the second book being the aftermath, with the group just trying to deal with the fact that they actually killed Bunny. Once again, not a spoiler, we’re told on the first page that the group kill Bunny. And if you don’t like even the first pages of novels being spoiled then I suggest you should go outside more often.Side note: it’s rather depressing to read this novel when you’re the same age as the characters. I felt so under-read. But then I remembered they’re all fictional, so fuck them.The first book is actually quite good. It’s all wonderfully tense as the reader is just waiting for the murder to happen. The inverted murder mystery, which oftentimes does not work, works fantastically here and you wouldn’t be talked over if you referred to The Secret History as perhaps the best example of the whydunit genre. Then my biggest problem with the novel happens: the entire second half. What a fucking slog. Like, jesus. Okay Donna just because you’re writing about a funeral doesn’t mean that the novel itself has to become funereal. The whole book just becomes ‘oh aren’t we really sad!’ and ‘ugh it’s tough being murderers!’ And I think, tell me if I’m wrong here, I think Tartt expects us to sympathise with these fucking monsters. I mean, I’ve sympathised with murderers before. I think Aileen Wuornos had a fairly sound motive. The Unabomber made some good points. But this ragtag group of Enid Blyton rejects? Nah. Not a chance.So what do I think of The Secret History the second time around? Much the same as the first time really. I did enjoy some parts more, especially the first half. I’ll be kind, I’ll bump my star rating up one. Congrats Donna, I now think your first novel is perfectly average! I’m happy for us both.Oh, and isn’t Judy Poovey just the greatest name of a fictional character in the history of Western literature? Judy Poovey. I want to get to know you.
2834119	** spoiler alert ** Okay, so let me see if I understand what's going on in this book: These college kids accidentally murder someone while participating in some ancient ritual which involves some form of alternate consciousness. Then, they're shockingly ho-hum about the entire thing because after all it was just some random farmhand or something who just accidentally happened to be around. They never ever discuss this murder. They don't even really feel bad about it until someone threatens to expose them. Plus, instead of ever discussing the potentially interesting details of their ritual, the book instead chooses to focus on the most boring aspects of the aftermath. There's an entire chapter devoted to a road trip which really needs to be cut out and replaced with: "Yeah, so, we all went to Bunny's funeral. His family was pretty much what we expected."There's a division between the first half of this book and the second half. I was really drawn in to the first half but as soon as the second half begins, it all goes downhill right until the ending which is the worst part of the whole stupid thing. I hate it when books do that. (My reading group's November / December 2006 book selection.)
4687003113	everyone in this book should've died
9263114	Apparently the New York Times described The Secret History as "Powerful...Enthralling...A ferociously well-paced entertainment" and Time said "A smart, craftsman-like, viscerally compelling novel."Very funny, guys, ha ha and all that. They're such jolly jokesters. They'll have you believing anything. The Secret History is complete tripe - no, that's harsh, let me put it another way - it's COMPLETE TRIPE - oh dear, this keyboard has a mind of its own! and is very firm about its opinions too! - but this book is also the literary equivalent of novocaine and it's just so cozy.SPACE FOR GIF OF COZY CUTEY KITTY Oooh Donna. Just another bowl of bananas and custard and a whopping plateful of classical references and allusions; and a murder. And ladle on all the upper class schmooze for us. You knowwwwww what I like! Tickle my tootsies and call me something Latin...ooooh.This book puts you in the kind of trance where you don't mind that The Secret History is mercilessly ripped off from Brideshead Revisited. Well, I didn't mind at all because I hadn't read Brideshead Revisited then, which I suspect most of young Donna's readers hadn't either and I further suspect the reviewers of The New York Times and Time hadn't. Or they'd have run her out of town on a rail, if that still happens (I haven't seen it done for years). Oh Donna, oh Donna how does that old song go?I once had a girl, or should I say, she once had me.Three stars though! Sometimes it's fun to be fooled.
3181490876	A truly modern classic masterpiece - Tartt's first offering as a writer is this juggernaut - a descent into evil, unreliably narrated by the newest addition to a group of highly eccentric elitist misfits, who form a group around a just as eccentric classics professor at a small liberal arts college in Vermont. Within this microcosm, they are creating their own norms and in time, their own morality, which leads to a descent to evil.A masterclass in scene setting and character development from a first person narrator's perspective; in beautifully paced suspense building; and in creating an atmosphere and plot that aptly illustrates the general complexity and confusion of relationships. The well drawn out character development by Tartt, brings the group to life, despite the at first glance, limited view of the narrator. One of those books you can read again and again, and again... and still be completely drawn in by the suspense and the mystery of it all.Tart announces her talent to the world! 10 out of 12.
3616876270	BEAUTY IS TERROR. That should have been the title of this book, how each of the titular character views beauty.....and the unholy terror that comes from it. Spoiler Discussion Live show here : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PSNew...Imagine if someone took a simple generic thriller mystery plot but added Latin phrases, subtle Greek history and references, a study of philosophy and logic, and unlikeable, privileged, and pretentious college students— you get this dense, ironic, well crafted, and brain killing book. This book gave me a fucking headache.I want to reread it. Someday. But not anytime soon. It was so sad. And fucking depressing. The conversations were sooo interesting to me. It’s was like having conversations I would never have with someone in the first place. Stronger in the sense that writing was SOOOO FUCKING GOOD!!!! The fact that she writes in way where its easy to articulate and understand that I wouldn’t be able to in an actual real life conversation is astounding to me. I couldn’t even tell it was taking place in the 80s; a true classic, still living up and strong to this day— timeless. I liked this book. And then I really hated it. Bunny can go die. Well he did. And I don’t condone murder but this book made me feel so conflicted overall. It’s passionate, considerate, pretentious, arrogant, and somewhat chaotic read. Also very cold and lifeless— not in a bad way per se. Richard is honestly a really boring character, nothing that makes him stand out BUT the ordeal he went through and his need to belong gives him that edge that makes me give a second look. I can definitely see why people have a love/hate relationship this book. It was really distinct outlook on character relationships- driven and heavy. Pretentious and tedious. Reminded me of A Little Life by Hanya Yanagihara and a little of Ninth House by Leigh Bardugo. 4 STARS. Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
180771481	What a load of pretentious bum-poo.The Secret History is the story of a bunch of dull but preternaturally beautiful super-nerds who study subjects no one cares about at a fantasy university where the only work you have to do is compete to see who is the Biggest Disaffected Sulkypants on the planet.I met a guy once who was just like this book, as it happens. He drank a lot of rum, talked rot about Neitzsche and foreign existentialist movies we'd never seen, then spent five hours puking into the bath. Yeah, we weren't impressed. Same with this stupid novel.
2002657452	Six students at an eastern Ivy League college latch on to an elderly professor of Greek. They create a Greek 'cult' that leads to murder and, in all, the death of three people. The story is told from the point of view of the outsider in the group: he’s the only kid from the west coast and the only one on financial aid. All the misfit characters come alive, each with his (and one her) personality. The story is told methodically, step by step, and you start to feel 'this could have really happened.' A great book, just a bit longer than necessary. The author was born in 1963 and grew up in Mississippi. She has written two best-selling novels, The Secret History (4.2 on GR) and The Goldfinch (3.9), both with more than a half-million ratings on GR. The Goldfinch won the Pulitzer prize in 2014 and was made into a movie. Photo from greekboston.comThe author from john-adams.nl[Edited, author info and picture added 9/6/23]
1778438810	I understand why The Secret History is loathed as much as it is loved. If I remove myself a bit from what I just read, I note implausible dialogue and somewhat unbelievable plot elements, horrifically selfish and nasty main characters, overflowing with evil, sure, but mostly with ennui and snobbery and drunkenness and poor-little-rich-people and an air of erudition that's more smokescreen than substance.I can admit to all of that objectively. Subjectively, I feverishly read this in a day and found it literally unputdownable, obscuring my copy under my desk to finish the last 50 pages at work. I can't tell if I suspended my disbelief, or fully believed and drank the Kool-Aid, or some combination of both. All I can say is that this book seized hold of me and refused to let go, lured me and seduced me with Tartt's picturesque, poetic language and description, the sustained tension and ominous mood, and the intricacies of the dark, feral, brutal natures and impulses that lurk underneath beautiful, polished surfaces. I was compelled to savor the details, but also desperate to turn the pages and read more. I was by turns irritated, disgusted, sympathetic, contemplative of the relationships and actions and reactions of Henry, Bunny, Francis, Charles and Camilla, and though I wouldn't say any rank among the more memorable characters I've read, they ended up being as magnetic as Richard the narrator first found them to be, even if in the end I was repelled by them rather than attracted. I could not look away, I was completely captured and in their and Tartt's spell. And I came to satisfied and unsettled by my satisfaction, as though I shouldn't have liked or enjoyed or been so captivated by such a tale. This book is wicked. I can see how wicked can mean evil/unpleasant, or a New England style excellent for this read, and completely understand its polarizing nature. If you haven't read The Secret History yet and are debating about it, I'd recommend trying it if you're a fan of dense literary novels and don't always need a moral paragon to root for. And if you do decide to pick it up, I can only urge to try as hard as you can to suspend your disbelief and get caught in the web... I can't tell if I devoured it or it devoured me, or both, but either way I loved this wicked book. 4.5 stars rounded up to 5 stars, with a future re-read all but guaranteed.
2947549711	"Does such a thing as ‘the fatal flaw,’ that showy dark crack running down the middle of a life, exist outside literature? I used to think it didn’t. Now I think it does. And I think that mine is this: a morbid longing for the picturesque at all costs."Hot damn this book was brilliant! I’m officially joining the ranks of Donna Tartt fans. Three things happened after I finished this book: 1) I wanted to start all over again 2) I had difficulty reading the books I chose next (even though they are excellent in their own right) 3) I couldn’t figure out how the hell to write this review! I’ve actually been afraid to read Tartt. I mean, what if I didn’t love her like everyone else? How was I going to explain that?! And now I can’t seem to coherently express why I admired her writing so much in this book. I’ll start perhaps with that quote above and that "morbid longing for the picturesque at all costs." I can totally relate to that. Perhaps not "at all costs", however. Richard, a middle-class Californian and the narrator of The Secret History, thirsts for the intellectual and glamorous life. More importantly, he’s searching for a place to belong; he yearns for what he believes to be ‘his people.’ Sounds familiar, right? And perhaps a bit clichéd? Well, there’s certainly nothing ordinary about this story. It’s intelligently crafted, and the reader is drawn right into the book alongside Richard. I can’t say I liked Richard, but for 500+ pages, I lived outside of my little world and smack dab in the middle of Richard’s. The setting is perfect and beautifully described – a small liberal arts college in rural Vermont. "Even now I remember those pictures, like pictures in a storybook one loved as a child. Radiant meadows, mountains vaporous in the trembling distance; leaves ankle-deep on a gusty autumn road; bonfires and fog in the valleys; cellos, dark windowpanes, snow."Then there are the characters! Richard somehow manages to edge into the small, exclusive Greek classics program run by the very enigmatic professor, Julian. The classics students, Richard included, see him definitely as a father-like figure, something each seemed to be lacking in their personal lives; but furthermore, he was nearly a god-like personage in their eyes. Richard is immediately attracted to this eccentric yet alluring group - Henry, Francis, Bunny, and the twins, Camilla and Charles. "… different as they all were they shared a certain coolness, a cruel, mannered charm which was not modern in the least but had a strange cold breath of the ancient world: they were magnificent creatures, such eyes, such hands, such looks—sic oculos, sic ille manus, sic ora ferehat."What do you do when you feel disillusioned and bored with your daily life? What happens when you are under the spell of a charismatic nature like Julian’s? Naturally, the group is easily swayed by his words. Even after finishing the last page of this novel, I still ask the question to what extent was Julian responsible, either directly or indirectly, for the actions of these students."Beauty is terror. Whatever we call beautiful, we quiver before it. And what could be more terrifying and beautiful, to souls like the Greeks or our own, than to lose control completely?"I won’t get into the rest of the plot. We are told from the very beginning that there is a murder and that this group is responsible. But this is not an ordinary whodunit, as we know this fact from page one. It’s all about the thrilling suspense leading up to the event as well as the gripping psychological tension. The claustrophobic feeling held me in its tight embrace throughout the second half or last third of the novel. There are certainly overtones of Crime and Punishment within. It also brought to mind the feeling I had while reading The Talented Mr. Ripley. How could I actually find myself siding with the villain(s)? There was such a feeling of intimacy that Tartt created between the reader and Richard in this book, much like Highsmith did between the reader and Tom Ripley in her book. It’s ingenious!The Secret History is one of my favorite reads of the year, and will also sit on my favorites of all time shelf. It’s a literary thriller at its finest. As I was reading this on my kindle, I didn’t actually pay attention to the number of pages before I started. When I finished, I couldn’t believe this was actually 500+ pages. I could have read more! I had been about to start reading The Goldfinch, but I have to thank my friend Pedro who convinced me that this one should be first. I’m certain this would have deserved 5 stars regardless of the order of reading, but I’m fully confident that his advice was wise! Now I can’t wait to continue my Tartt adventures."I suppose at one time in my life I might have had any number of stories, but now there is no other. This is the only story I will ever be able to tell."
6764936	Someone just brought up Nietzsche’s Apollonian vs. Dionysian theory, which is described at the link below, if you are as unfamiliar as I was. http://www.geocities.com/danielmacrya...Apparently Donna Tartt was well-versed in this theme, as it is prevalent in The Secret History. The gist of Nietzsche’s theory is that the ancient Greeks attained such a high level of culture mainly due to their personal struggle between the opposing philosophies of Apollo and Dionysus; Apollo being the god of art, and thus, stagnation, while Dionysus is the god of debauchery and barbarism, and thus, action. This struggle between appreciation for art and culture and a zeal for living is what Nietzsche credits for the Greeks impressive progress. He also believed that the only way we can progress today is to swing the pendulum toward Dionysus.I see Tartt’s Greek professor character as Apollonian—beautiful and seemingly wise, but in the end, shallow, and useless in times of tragedy. His students loved him, but they (or Henry, at least) realized the inherent stagnation in pouring over ancient texts and art--they needed a Dionysian push to move them forward to real progress. This is a rather obvious observation, I think it is even spelled out by the Henry character in the novel. However, the basis for Nietzsche’s theory, which I’m now sure Tartt was aware of, is that the basic will of humans is not to simply survive, but to survive at a level superior to that of your peers. Knowing this adds new colors to the tableau Tartt weaved for us, a story that is ultimately about class struggle (ala Philip Roth, hence, the faux-snubb reference). I think it tells us how carefully Tartt chose her vehicle for this story and reveals a little more of her brilliance.
762362846	La letteratura è più efficace di un’arma da fuoco. Un proiettile segue una traiettoria breve. Colpisce in un istante. Ultimata la parabola, si conficca nel bersaglio e perde la sua efficacia. La letteratura invece ha un raggio d’azione potenzialmente infinito. Donna Tartt, ad esempio, nel 1992 ha scritto il suo Dio di illusioni (titolo originale: The secret history) e oggi nel 2013 le sue parole come frecce scagliate da un altrove lontano, hanno raggiunto e colpito il mio petto. Il potere strabiliante delle idee. Dio di illusioni è un romanzo formidabile. La storia è un susseguirsi di rivelazioni, ma non come potrebbe accadere in un thriller. La narrazione piuttosto si avvicina agli schemi della tragedia greca. E il dio di illusioni del titolo è proprio il dio greco Dioniso. “Maestro d’illusione, rende capaci i suoi devoti di vedere il mondo come non è”. La vicenda è ambientata in un elitario college nel Vermont in cui si reca Richard Papen, squattrinato e inquieto giovane, narratore degli eventi. Si lascerà affascinare da un gruppo di cinque brillanti ed eccentrici studenti di greco antico e dal loro professore, Julian, un esteta che esercita sugli allievi una forte seduzione spirituale. Julian contagerà i giovani discepoli con la sua passione per quel mondo antico e misterioso. Un mondo in cui l’irrazionale, il dionisiaco non erano tabù. “È un’idea tipica dei greci, e molto profonda. Bellezza è terrore. Ciò che chiamiamo bello ci fa tremare. E cosa potrebbe essere più terrificante e più bello che perdere ogni controllo?”. Ma instillare queste idee di superamento del reale, in giovani ricchi e annoiati che si sentono onnipotenti non si limita ad essere una dissertazione filosofica. Si trasformerà in una sfida, un gioco pericoloso. Nelle vite dei ragazzi, tra gli stordimenti di alcol e droga, si affaccerà il fantasma della violenza e della depravazione. Il romanzo della Tartt si concentra su un’attenta riflessione sul male, condotta dall’interno. Il narratore infatti è un inside man. Richard Papen è un piccolo borghese californiano, un infiltrato nell’elitario circolo di Julian. La sua non appartenenza crea attorno al ristretto simposio una cortina di fascino e attrazione. Julian assume una statura mitica: mentore, figura paterna, ultimo baluardo di bellezza e grazia in una società prosaica e grigia. Henry, i gemelli Charles e Camilla, Francis e Bunny appaiono agli occhi di Richard inarrivabili. Ricchi, bellissimi, onnipotenti. Richard si lascia catturare dal magnetismo dei colti studenti di lingua e cultura greca. Il mondo classico si rivela essere una dimensione magica, di gran lunga più profonda della sua vita che percepisce come spenta e mediocre. Richard, apparentemente insensibile e apatico, si risveglia dal suo torpore e si avvicina grazie alle lezioni di Julian a questo “bellissimo e tormentoso paesaggio, morto da secoli”. Mentre però Richard è un turista ammirato di quel mondo, Julian e soprattutto Henry ne erano abitatori permanenti. Il mondo a noi noto, il mondo del presente, non era la loro vera casa. Studiando le forze incontrollabili che s’impadronivano degli antichi greci durante i baccanali, bramosi d’impadronirsi essi stessi di quelle forze, di raggiungere quello stato di estasi e di riconoscere il sentimento del sublime, i discepoli di Julian coltiveranno un’illusione. L’illusione di ricreare un’epoca remota, l’illusione di essere sganciati dai ritmi e dalla morale che regola il presente. Ingannati dalle loro stesse menti, accecate da un delirio di onnipotenza, i ragazzi si getteranno in dinamiche di gruppo degeneranti che sfoceranno in un atto di brutale violenza. The secret history è però un romanzo che non si concentra tanto sull’atto di depravazione, sulla malvagità, quanto su “l’infinità di trucchi grazie ai quali il male si presenta come bene”. Tanto più che i protagonisti hanno un’età vulnerabile (e quanto suona ironico questo aggettivo riferito a tali personaggi!) e sono incapaci di scorgere la trappola in cui sono finiti. La narrazione è estremamente soggettiva e poco lucida. Sia perché il narratore fa spesso uso di sostanze stupefacenti, sia perché egli stesso è continuamente ingannato dalla natura dei personaggi e delle loro azioni. Il racconto procede per ribaltamenti. Chi prima sembrava la vittima, si rivela il carnefice. Ciò che prima appare sublime e lirico, si trasforma in torbida scelleratezza. Le illusioni attorno alle personalità dei personaggi vengono squarciate. Lo stesso romanzo è una continua rivelazione. Sguscia via da qualsiasi definizione di genere. Ha molti elementi del giallo, del thriller, del romanzo psicologico, del romanzo di formazione. Sarebbe fare un torto alla scrittrice racchiuderlo in un’etichetta. La Tartt intreccia l’interrogativo sul fascino del male con il rapporto tra moralità e denaro. Il fatto che i protagonisti appartengano a delle famiglie abbienti (nonostante non abbiano tutti lo stesso livello di agiatezza) è fondamentale. Perché l’azione che i protagonisti compiono è causata da una sorta di distanza dall’ordinario, la solida certezza di appartenere ad un genio superiore. Il denaro li inebria, li fa sentire diversi, migliori, onnipotenti. Ma soprattutto annoiati. Grazie ai soldi di Henry, che non dà alcuna importanza alle contingenze materiali proprio perché troppo ricco per preoccuparsene, i protagonisti diventano in un certo modo insensibili alla vita normale. Si sentono sempre più attratti dall’idea di trasgressione, di vitalità. Diventa un’ossessione: la ricerca di oblio, di un atto che possa ancora di più svincolarli dalla quotidianità e concedergli un singulto vero, difficile da trovare nelle alterazioni di farmaci e altre sostanze inebrianti, a cui ormai sono assuefatti. Quello che però potrebbe sembrare un romanzo nichilista (nel senso positivo e vitalistico che gli attribuiva Nietzsche) in realtà cova un severo giudizio morale. Il vero tema del romanzo non è un cinico atto superomistico bensì il senso di colpa. I protagonisti dalla loro perversione non troveranno altro che alienazione e sofferenza. Non quella terribile bellezza che gli antichi greci provarono nella liberazione di ogni istinto. Non reggono il fardello delle loro azioni (“Mi sentii addosso tutta l’amara, irrevocabile realtà della nostra azione, la sua malvagità”). Non superuomini, ragazzi dietro i cui atti si cela egoismo, marciume, perfidia. La bellezza è crudele, khalepà tà kalà. “Forse avrebbe considerato quei delitti come delle cose tristi folli tormentate pittoresche (Ho fatto tutto, si vantava il vecchio Tolstoj, anche uccidere un uomo) invece che atti fondamentalmente egoistici e malvagi quali erano”. La scrittrice statunitense costruisce un romanzo che è non solo una forte denuncia del vuoto, del potere alienante di una ricchezza, non supportata da altri valori ma anche un romanzo di disillusione e crescita. Descrive perfettamente il passaggio dalla nebulosità e irrequietezza dell’adolescenza ad uno stadio adulto. Per una più approfondita analisi sui personaggi (solo per chi ha letto il romanzo): http://conamoreesquallore.blogspot.it...
5060467994	DNF @64% after the author who also narrates the book decides to use a racial slur twice. i don’t care if she’s quoting her ‘characters.’ *cue the racist english teacher war flashbacks*this is quite literally the worst book i have ever had the displeasure of suffering through. and this is before she decides to say the N word.I’m going to put an excerpt of the last part I heard before DNFing:”And now all you people coming over here, acting like you own the place, with all your chick peas and your filthy little pocket breads?” The Arab screamed out a frightful obscenity.Mr. Hundy leapt to his feet, eyes blazing, pointing a trembling forefinger into the audience. “Sand n******!” he shouted bitterly. “Sand n******! Sand—“no. just no. cut the cameras. i honestly try not to let stuff like this get to me because it’s unhealthy and you can’t control other’s actions. but it’s upsetting to see how much support and money this author gets from such a disgusting book, and the rest of the work she publishes. i understand it was written in 1992, but this book continues to be extremely popular and comes up highly recommended in the book community which is disappointing. not to mention the fact that even her later work continues to include these same slurs. even more so than in this book. not all copies of this book included the N word, but it was especially horrific to hear it in the audiobook form coming out of the author’s mouth. the fact that the slurs were removed from more recent copies just continues to push her work while completely ignoring the issues. here’s an idea: how about remove the book as a whole? there’s nothing worthwhile in there. there is no reason the bigotry in this needed to be included. it was completely irrelevant to the story.i was going to give this book 1 star whether i got to the end or not anyways, because i hated it so much. it was problematic from the start. i understand wanting to portray charaters as awful people but there’s ways to do that without using slurs. just saying.idk who i was fooling when i decided to start reading this book?? i just wanted to branch out and read a classic but i got this horrendous book. idk why it has so many high ratings. people can like whatever they like but this just isn’t it for me. not the type of thing i like to read for fun tbh. and despite what i’ve said i’m not judging anybody for liking the book because it’s not my business and i’m not responsible for other people.i just wanna know how a book all about crazy people come out so dry? that’s some talent right there. a whole lot of nothing going on in the story. the book was incredibly pretentious. this woman just wants to show us how she knows latin and can throw in some french and greek in there too. the number of times i rolled my eyes with the unnecessary latin terms and phrases is unbelievable.i didn’t realize the reason everyone loves henry winter is because he’s the only one in this book with a personality. he is the psychopath they all follow around like puppies. it’s laughable. richard has to be one of the worst main characters ever written. why was this book in his pov? he was so irrelevant to the story too. he’s just a follower and a loser. he has no brain. head empty. all i really remember of him is how hot he thought the girl twin was. oh and the girl twin has no personality either, neither does boy twin. they were just there to take up space. bunny was there to be a character we’re supposed to hate and be glad he—spoiler alert—gets murdered by the group. francis is the gay one in the group who i don’t remember anything else about, probably because there is nothing else to know about him.in conclusion, this book was so long, dull, boring, pretentious, racist, and homophobic. i’m out.
708971894	Shortly after starting this book I Wikipedia'd Donna Tartt, to see if I was dealing with some sort of reverse George Eliot; I had been under the impression that only men got as smugly pretentious as Tartt does. But no, she's a real lady! Ask Bret Easton Ellis, whom she was banging at U. Miss while in a grad writing course that also included Jonathan Lethem and Jill Eisenstadt, so that is a whopping lot of talent in one course, and also Bret Easton Ellis.And you sortof start to wonder, did he start a competition with Donna Tartt about who could write a book featuring the most douchebags? Did they have a douchebag contest going? That would certainly explain American Psycho. It's the literary douchebag crane kick.Anyway, I guess Tartt's a great writer, because she does a terrific job of inhabiting the sort of insufferable, pedantic twit who brags about knowing the locative case in Greek. Oh, me and my clever little friends! We wear cuff links and read Seneca and describe our ex-girlfriends as "A lowbrow, pop-psychology version of Sylvia Plath...all the clinging, all the complaints, all the parking-lot confessions of 'inadequacy' and 'poor self-image,' all those banal sorrows." Which is a shitty thing for a dude to say, y'know? And, again, Donna Tartt isn't even a dude.It settles down, a bit, after the first quarter or so, into a passably competent thriller-type-thing. Murder and such. It's reasonably entertaining. A bit fixated on "hippies," which word appears 23 times and always with negative connotations, so that's weird, but whatever. I guess we all have our boogeymen. It gets - to use my girlfriend's word, which made me want to just hug the shit out of her - super "plotty" towards the end, which was good, but I felt a little let down by the denouement; I was kinda hoping for (view spoiler)[some huge revelation, like everyone was scheming to frame Richard, or Julian was in on it, or some crazy shit like that, so just having Henry shoot himself was, like...not plotty enough for me? (hide spoiler)] I don't know, that's unfair of me to say but it's how I felt.I've heard people say that the neat thing about Secret History is how it shines a realistic light on what it really means to murder a guy. Like, away with the murder mystery cliches, here's how it happens, and the family's funeral, and everything. And she kinda does, and I can appreciate that. But she gets to it by cheating, doesn't she? (view spoiler)[They get into this situation because they've already killed the other guy, whom they hadn't planned to kill. So it's not about how normal people might interact with murder - it's how normal people who already killed a guy during a Bacchanalian orgy might interact with murder, the next time. (hide spoiler)] That's not the same, and it's not actually realistic either. It's only happened to me like two or three times, and I found it way easier to cover up than these guys did.Maybe I just don't have any friends like Bunny.
4324545782	2010 me would have rated this: 5 stars2023 me rates this: 4 starsRecently, I have been watching a lecture series, Introduction to Theory of Literature. It poses the question: Why do we believe what we believe? This lecture from Yale asserts that our beliefs are shaped by our social and economic positions as well as by our history.Most people used to believe the world was flat. Why wouldn’t they believe that it was round?Now, amidst this academic exercise, I read The Secret History. Upon my first read, I loved The Secret History, but I couldn’t remember what happened.The Secret History was Donna Tartt’s debut novel, and it caused an unheard of bidding war between publishers. Ultimately, it was purchased for $450,000 (at least according to 1,0001 Books You Must Read Before You Die).From the very first page, we know there is a murder and the identity of the victim. Our narrator, Richard, is a broke college student who gets into a decent university and bluffs his way into a very elite Greek program. The class consists of only 6 students, and the professor will personally guide each student to helpful texts.The idea of a highly personalized education is so enchanting that I spent most of the novel in a blissful daze. In interviews, Tartt spoke about her time at Bennington College, a private liberal arts college in Vermont. During her school days, Tartt joined a writing group where half of the members are now published authors. Some of them are quite famous. However, she pointed out that Bennington College is not what it used to be. It is now under a new administration, and many of her professors are no longer working there.Although I am not well versed with the specifics of Bennington College, I did attend Michigan State University. Some classes had 200+ people. How much individual attention did I receive? How much meaningful commentary could I receive on my papers? What would I have become if I was in a class of six with a professor who was fully devoted to enhancing my education and writing?And, in the past, this would have been enough for me.But it isn’t anymore.While Tartt’s intellectual musings through our narrator Richard are intriguing, she rambles too much. Even in her interviews, her answers weren’t succinct. The interviewer would either cut her off or redirect her. She is so brilliant and dazzling that she can readily speak her mind.However, it is 2023, the era of TikTok and Instagram. Did you know that many Instagram reels are 5 seconds or less? 5 seconds, cut down to soundbites.Having the attention span of a goldfish, The Secret History is 100-200 pages too long for this academic-loving bookworm.2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango
1012378317	ok real talk i didn't know what tf Classics was until i read this and then i thought "hey this is canny interesting" so i signed up for a classics summer school at oxford and it turned out half the people there also ended up there bc of this mcfucking book and then the professors were all like "congrats bc the selection process was even more selective bc we had loads of applicants this year" and we were all just sitting there trying to pretend that we didn't end up there because of a book about a Classics Murder Club and tl;dr this is the impact this book has hadand then i majored in classics at uni. so, uh. yeah.
4343446421	posted my annotations & annotation guide for the secret history on my bookstagram! also my review.i will probably be posting chapter by chapter reading guides on my instagram so stay tuned!⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻here is the very long awaited review of one of my favorite books.i first read the secret history for class in high school, then two times after that. it is, without a doubt, always in my top 5 list of books. i’m sure i’m not special in that case, because this book is a true testament to the genius and beauty of english literature.i can say a thousand and one things about this book, post my many essays i’ve written on it, and it still would not be enough. every flick of a page in this book makes me feel like i’m slowly unravelling layers of something huge, something so very intricate. this took donna tartt 10 years to write, and everyone who reads it can absolutely tell why.the secret history centers around richard, a transfer student to hamden college, a liberal arts college in new england. it centers around a group of students and their classics professor and the murder of one of their classmates. it explores themes of beauty, hedonism, moral corruption, and the very slow descent into madness.i don’t want to say anything about the plot because the best way to go into this book is to go into it blind. instead, i want to talk about the writing. the writing!!! i will never be able to shut up about how fantastic it is. with the goldfinch but more so the secret history, it is easy to tell that this isn’t just a book, it is an art form waiting to be consumed.it’s insane just how much love this book has gotten, especially in the last year because of the ‘dark academia’ vibe it gives off. but this book is so much more than that, and sometimes i wish people wouldn’t get wholly swept away in the vibe of the book that they lose track of the attention to detail and expert character/world building.i have read this three times, and in the times that i did, i was living, breathing, and eating the secret history 24/7. i was living inside of these pages, and i never wanted to leave. tartt has the brilliant capability to immerse and entrap you into her narrative to the point where when you finish reading, you enter a sort of fugue state for a bit because readjusting to reality is hard.that’s my favorite part of reading a book that is genuinely so perfect. the part where, when you finish, you wonder just how you’re supposed to go back to living your day to day life.⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻ pre-reread rereading because why live if you're not going to reread the secret history annually? my chronic rereading disease persists into 2022.also entertaining because i'm looking at annotations i made at 17 as an almost 22 year old and my thoughts are largely the same. have i just not matured? stay tuned to find out.at one point in chapter one where richard wrote that he was vaguely marxist, i wrote "materialistic king seems pretty capitalist to me!" and i stand by that.⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻⸻can you believe that i have read this book three times and i still cannot come up with a good enough review to describe how much i love this book?i've been trying for four years, guys.
4813752750	★ 5 stars “I suppose at one time in my life I might have had any number of stories, but now there is no other. This is the only story I will ever be able to tell.” The Secret History genuinely altered my brain chemistry forever. this book is truly a masterpiece in every sense of the word, and i really regret not reading it sooner. the story left me impressed and speechless — it’s so enthralling, captivating, unique and well-written. i gotta admit that the pacing was a bit slow at times, but it didn’t bother me that much. overall, i was hooked from beginning to end.what i liked more was how all of the characters were complex, flawed and imperfect. each one of them made a lot of mistakes and for that reason they got on my nerves countless times — but nevertheless, i absolutely loved the way they were written because it just made them feel more real and human.all in all, it’s one of the best books i’ve read in a while and i highly recommend it to anyone who’s looking for a fascinating read. i had such high expectations after seeing all the hype and i’m glad it didn’t disappoint me, not even in the slightest. it was everything I was expecting and more. if i could give it more than five stars, i would without a doubt! a new favorite of mine for sure. <3 maybe someday i’ll write a longer and more detailed review for this incredible book. but since i finished reading it a few hours ago, my thoughts are still a mess so that’s all i can manage to say at the moment. sorry for this bland review.— some of my favorite quotes ♡ “Even more terrible, as we grow older, to learn that no person, no matter how beloved, can ever truly understand us.”“Forgive me, for all the things I did but mostly for the ones that I did not.”“Beauty is terror. Whatever we call beautiful, we quiver before it.”“Our own selves make us most unhappy, and that’s why we’re so anxious to lose them, don’t you think?”“I believe that it is better to know one book intimately that a hundred superficially.”“In short: I felt my existence was tainted, in some subtle but essential way.”“Love doesn’t conquer everything. And whoever thinks it does is a fool.”“I am nothing in my soul if not obsessive.”“It is a terrible thing to learn as a child that one is a being separate from the world, that no one and no thing hurts along with one’s burned tongues and skinned knees, that one’s aches and pains are all one’s own.”“We think we have many desires, but in fact we have only one. What is it?”“To live.”“Are you happy here?”He considered this for moment. “Not particularly,” he said. “But you’re not very happy where you are, either.”
5204416983	I was hooked from the start with this one. After having read quite a few dark academia books, I can see how this one set the groundwork. (Not saying this was the first DA book to ever exist, but it's influence is very apparent to me!) The characters we're all incredibly unlikable (which I loved) and the dynamics between our core group was so captivating. The plot was enthralling right out the gate and my only real complaint lies with the pacing. Otherwise this was fantastic!
2048162956	What a convoluted mess of toxicity and emotion, I love it
149122071	The Secret History is about as convincing as Less Than Zero. how has this book stayed so popular? well, Less Than Zero also remains popular. i'll take lev grossman's The Magicians over both of them, and that one is aggravating too. (1) i'm so tired of people who are so tired of everything! (1b) ennui is so very boring, almost as boring as (2) pretentious know-it-alls. this book manages to combine all three. i learned nothing except a new way to be irritated. oh, donna tartt... as if!
3208959986	meh
4158543837	I really wanted to like this book and I thought I would, around 200 pages in a ritual event occurs and I was intrigued by that, but it’s not really part of the story much after that. I felt the book concluded and the end of part 1 and then just dragged for the second half until the last 30 pages or so. I do think this is a book that just wasn’t for me, so don’t let that hinder your interest in reading, as you might love it! I seem to be in the minority anyway when it comes to this.
2348862683	This is going to be a difficult one to review because majority of the readers loved it and I did not feel the same way. I wanted to DNF this book within 200 pages but I was curious to know what the hype was all about. The narrator, Richard Papen joins a group of five elite, mysterious, obsessed with ancient Greek literature students and shit starts to go down. The book is about young, self absorbed, vain and abusive bunch of rich kids who go to the extent of killing one of their own while making it all look so easy. The characters include, a blackmailing homophobe, a nerd who is still in the closet, a generic female love interest who has a twin, a guy who falls in love with her but his love is not reciprocated, and a stud who thinks he knows everything. The Secret History started with a typical college plot but quickly drifted off to a whole new level of pretentious and pointless waffle.Beauty is terror. Whatever we call beautiful, we quiver before it.In the pretext of Greek literature and philosophy, Donna Tartt has written a long, boring and vile book which does not offer us any insight to why they are drawn to such extremes. This is a story that could have been told in about 300 pages but instead went on rattling for 600-painful-shoot-me-in-the-head-for-trying-to-finish-this-pages. Extremely weak and poorly developed characters doing all kinds of crap, drugs, stealing, Bacchanalia, drinking, incest, blackmailing and even murder. The characters lacked depth and were impossible to connect with. Tartt has written a lot about Ancient Greek which is just for show and effect, they talk so much about Plato and Homer in the first few pages but it drifts off very soon. The Secret History is overrated, incomprehensible and shallow. It is a complete waste of time. Because of all the hype, I might consider reading The Goldfinch but I do not recommend this book to anyone.
3338000923	reread: every time i reread this book. i’m amazed by several things:1) that it’s donna tartt’s debut novel 2) how immersive it is - from the first time i read this to even now, i am completely enthralled every single time 3) how funny it is, and mainly how that’s not a more popular discourse surrounding this book, because there are moments that are SO funny and it would be a very different novel without that humour 4) just how well-written and smart it is. each time i reread it with the knowledge of what happens, i pick out another little hint or moment of foreshadowing 5) simply how GOOD it is. but i guess it’s my favourite book for that reason. reread: one day when i have time i’m going to write a proper review for this, but for now all i can say is it really just is my favourite book and i’ll be amazed if anything ever overtakes it. reread: this book is just as good the second time, especially because you can pick up on all the foreshadowing and hints throughout. i had forgotten how funny the book is too, which most people probably wouldn’t expect, but it really does make you laugh at some points. i know this book sometimes gets called dense and boring, but i truly don’t understand how because both times i’ve found every single page absolutely enthralling. i’m still in awe that this was tartt’s debut novel. i just love it. i’m not quite sure why, but i really didn’t expect to enjoy this book as much as i did. this book has always been daunting to me, partly due to its length and also due to the conflicting reviews i’ve seen - some say it’s laboriously dense, while others claim it’s their favourite book of all time. for me, it was one of those books that i could hardly put down from the moment i picked it up. the plot was what drew me in originally, but it is about SO much more than what it says on the back cover, which is what makes it so enthralling. every single character is so interesting, especially the relationships they have with one another. the dark academia aesthetic is so well done, the whole book is hauntingly atmospheric and the writing is some of the most beautiful i may have ever read. i think this is going to be one of those books that stays with me for a long time.
5651435	Okay, this book. This book was a lot of fun, partially, I think, because it was written in this fashion which made determining whether this was past, present or future virtually impossible. It was very romantically written and I tend to go for that sort of thing: simple meals of tomato soup and skim milk, five college-aged students who drink tea as well as burbon, scotch and on occasion whiskey--but not with anything as muddled and middle-class as coke mixed in--no, they drink it on ice, in thick lead-glass tumblers while spending weekends in a shabby (as only the very wealthy can have) weekend "cottage" which is actually a massive Victorian on the New England coast with a grounds keeper.The boys are called "eccentric" but eccentric doesn't quite cut it. They are like no boys I've ever met: dressing souly in dark suits and silken cravats, while the lone female is called Camilla, smokes, speaks with a gravely femme-fatale voice and wears over-sized cashmere sweaters and is compared, looks-wise, to Helen of Troy.This being said, perhaps it's not the most believable of novels, pray tell, however, it is EXACTLY what I LOVE in novels. Granted, there's a murder and some ghastly stuff, but I would much prefer life if it were like this: if No Fear T-shirts had never been invented, if teenagers said "I suppose" and didn't own televisions. If I really had met a girl in college who kept dusty tea-cups and water glasses filled with dandilions on her bedside table.It was a beautiful book with great character development. It got a little to "masterpiece theater" on me at the end and while one twist would have been enough, there was instead a teather of strings going every-which way...but man what a lovely way to get a little bored...It was so well written, so crisp and precise, so pretty and...novel-like. I haven't been so inspired by setting since Edith Wharton. Really.This would have been, sans the creepy, the way I HOPED my liberal arts experience would be, instead of over-weight girls with fake tans and highlights, birth-control contrived boobs and Ann Taylor, Banana Republic wanna-be classy with dimpled upper arms. I never met a Camilla, Charles or Henry. What a shame...kind of. I really prefer books to people.**I write on books and other stuff at www.snapshotnarrative.tumblr.com
2906239037	I've read this book a year ago and I still haven't managed to write a review (until now). I seriously intended to do so right after I finished reading, but I never ended up doing it. This wasn't (entirely) done out of laziness, but more so because I just didn't know what to say. And I still don't really know. I'm just so...unsure of what I thought of this book?Well, actually I'm not really. I didn't enjoy it massively. Mostly, it left me cold. And that's what confuses me. Because I expected to totally love this book. The synopsis sounds exactly like something I would absolutely love. And I've heard so many people absolutely raving about the story, seriously being somewhat obsessed and in love with the characters! And I came out of it feeling like I missed something...Don't get me wrong: This wasn't a bad story. The plot was certainly intriguing and left me constantly wondering what would happen next and how everything would end. I also definitely liked the characters and found them interesting, but I wanted more. I just never really connected with the them or the plot. At times, I was confused why some things happened. I just couldn't fathom how and why the characters behaved the way they did. I kept thinking (and hoping) everything would explain itself to me at the end, all the puzzle pieces would fall into place, I would have an epiphany and would suddenly go:"OH! NOW I get why everybody loves this book!" But that moment (unfortunately) never came.And then (view spoiler)[the whole incest thing came to light...I just didn't think that was necessary, like AT ALL. I know there were undertones since the very start, so it didn't come out of nowhere, but still...it made me kind of lose respect and the (tiny bit of) love I had for the characters involved. And I'm not someone who hates incest in books just out of principle. (hide spoiler)] There are certain situations were I can accept and respect such a plot point. But here it just seemed somewhat misplaced, funnily enough because there were so many scandalous things already happening. This was just too much, like Tartt tried too hard to add as many scandalous things into one book as possible.I enjoyed Tartt's writing, she certainly has a way with words. Her writing style isn't plain and average, instead it's distinguishable from others and she has a clear voice of her own. This is what saved the book for me a bit, and it's what makes me interested in trying out her other works at some point.Again: This wasn't a bad book, there was just something missing for me personally. Maybe I simply had too high or the wrong expectations. However, I can still see how others might get more out of this book than me, so I wouldn't necessarily discourage anyone from reading it.
352995673	And after we stood whispering in the underbrush – one last look at the body and a last look round, no dropped keys, lost glasses, everybody got everything? – and then started single file through the woods, I took one glance back through the saplings that leapt to close the path behind me. Though I remember the walk back and the first lonely flakes of snow that came drifting through the pines, remember piling gratefully into the car and starting down the road like a family on vacation, with Henry driving clench-jawed through the potholes and the rest of us leaning over the seats and talking like children, though I remember only too well the long terrible night that lay ahead and the long terrible days and nights that followed, I have only to glance over my shoulder for all those years to drop away and I see it behind me again, the ravine, rising all green and black through the saplings, a picture that will never leave me.Donna Tartt had me from the first page.This was a story that I wanted to hear.Some where, inside, a door opened Onto a roomI quite like it hereI’m comfortableI belongOf course they are all hereHenry, Francis, Charles, his sister BunnyAnd me.The dishes lay waiting to be washedThe bed to be madeThe floor to be cleanedThe cat to be fedLife’s detritus, tangled underfootI read.I am complicit.I suppose at one time in my life I might have had any number of stories, but now there is no other. This is the only story I will ever be able to tell.An absolute masterpiece! Don't miss it. :)
4384808790	THIS IS LITERALLY THE BEST BOOK EVER WRITTENDonna Tartt you're a fucking genius
5704875953	DNF at 38% Definitely not for me. It has a beautiful aesthetic but it’s beyond boring.
550425083	i think the fact that i've just read 600 pages in a day is indication enough that this book is everything to me
27396999	At the transition from the first to second half of the story, marked by a FIFTY-PAGE reveal in a single monologue by a character who's defining trait is his inscrutable lack of emotion, the reader discovers that things aren't what they seem. Unfortunately, the second half's hook is that things are exactly what they seem: these kids believe every action oozes the portent of Oedipus at the Oracle when, in fact, the world is humming along without paying them the least mind. While that may be the point, these kids effect this classicism gone haywire by drinking and screaming about how scared they are after knocking on each other's doors in the middle of the night. Round about the fifteenth "there was a knock at the door. it was XXX" I was ready to knock on the door of my septic tank, but decided to keep going to see about a climax...which never really comes. A supposedly grotesque sexual relationship is handled dismissively and without consequences, themes of flight from self are never really fulfilled (despite the fact that losing oneself is the goal of every adolsecent), and eventually you realize that you want to escape these characters as much as they want to escape themselves. Unfortunately, neither of you can. In addition to being completely unlikeable and filled with incomprehensible motivations, there is simply no way these characters would be friends with each other, no way a dim dyslexic kleptomaniac extorionist jock would be accepted into an advanced classics program, and if you can tell the difference between Francis and Charles, other than one is gay and the other isn't, do let me know.
6868619667	this is the longest its ever taken me to read a book. i don't think i was smart enough to comprehend this.
6884464110	2025 re-read: coming back because I yearn for the way these characters made me feel I truly believe that if you didn’t feel sick after finishing this book… you didn’t read it right ୨ৎ “What is beauty? Terror” This book changed my outlook on literature.When I was first introduced this book I thought it akin to the dead poets society, I have now realized how very wrong my assumptions were. The Secret History is not a book about young greek nerds, it’s about the human mind and character, and the issues with idealism:Henry and Julian, Richard and Henry, and in a way the reader and this book. Yes, the book’s ambiance is very well set, yes the use of ideas of ancient philosophers being in our modern world is definitely interesting, but a whole new aesthetic was created based on this book, (which I find incredibly ironic). I’m sorry but Henry fans: you didn’t get the book. How many times do we find ourselves pushing unrealistic standards? Romanticizing everything? Idealism is fun, enticing, through Richard’s voice we learn to love each character and their distinct personality, but it is also through his pov that we see the complexity beneath romanticizing people instead of viewing them as they are. I believe us as readers, specially in the booktok community, idealize many parts when reading, the tropes, the personalities, the characters, etc; and this leads us to have books that never go beyond the surface, one dimensional characters and repetitive plot lines. I want to think that after reflecting upon this, I will start reading more profound stories, but let’s be honest (I love romantasy) I probably won’t. However I will feel incredibly guilty now, thank you tsh. pre-review: What a book, honestly. The play with the unreliable narrator, the complexity with the characters, the writing style, just perfection. I’m sorry but I need two to three business days to make sense of that ending. Donna Tart, the woman you are.
5067745144	Me gustó muchísimo este libro, y al contrario que la mayoría de gente, mi parte preferida es la segunda, cuando va saliendo toda la podredumbre y poco a poco ves el castillo de naipes caer.Es una novela decadente y única, cruel y fascinante. Una historia que te atrapa y te manipula y que es al mismo tiempo incómoda por todo lo que hay de verdad en ella.
3906096790	this book will be my only personality trait from now on
53264406	I remember that I liked it when I read it. But I don't recall that much of the book, and in general my system is that the less I remember, the more I mark it down. Of course, that could say more about me than about the book.I do recall being just a little skeptical about how good the author's knowledge of classics was. It's not like I know anything about the subject - I did a couple of years of Latin at school, which I hated, and I only just passed my exams. But there were a couple of funny moments. Like, I remember a bit where the word "Argentine" came up, and the narrator says that the "Argent" piece sounds golden to her.Um... "argent" derives from Latin argentum, which (I just looked it up) derives from the Greek 'Αργυρος, translated as silver or white metal. Even I knew the Latin derivation. So the atmosphere didn't feel quite authentic.____________________________________I have been feeling a little guilty about nickpicking this book, which, I readily agree, is sometimes quite beautiful and moving. But here's my attempt at a justification. If you're going to write about some form of obsession, it really helps to have experienced that obsession yourself. Most people have been in love at some time, so descriptions of being in love often ring true. At the other end of the spectrum, very few authors are serial killers, and your average fictional serial killer tends to come across as rather silly.In the middle, you have unusual forms of obsession, which can make good books. But the ones I like most are definitely written by people who've known them first-hand. Nabokov was crazy about chess, and Luzhin's Defense is, at least in my opinion, the only good novel ever written about chess obsession. David Foster Wallace was extremely serious about junior tennis, which is one of the things that make the E.T.A. part of Infinite Jest so compelling. And I find it hard to believe that someone who wasn't himself a literary theorist could have written Small World.If you're obsessed with something, you immerse yourself in it to such a degree that even tiny details become terribly important. That's why it felt so odd when Donna Tartt got a few things wrong in this book, which is supposed to be about people who are obsessed with classical culture. It shattered the illusion for me, and I was annoyed with her for doing that. But if you aren't as obsessive as I am, there's maybe no reason why it should worry you.
3311877397	To say I’m obsessed with the mental darkness is an understatement. There is something entrancing and mesmerizing about the dark atmosphere, the lure of the Ancient Greece and the morbid longing of literary madness.A secluded campus, a group of scholars, a secret, a obsession, a murder.A song of the utter darkness.Surreality, intimacy, eccentricity.Sometimes you just don’t want the story to end.-“it fails me utterly when I attempt to describe in it what I love about Greek, that language innocent of all quirks and cranks; a language obsessed with action, and with the joy of seeing action multiply from action, action marching relentlessly ahead and with yet more actions filing in from either side to fall into neat step at the rear, in a long straight rank of cause and effect toward what will be inevitable, the only possible end.”Key Words: Dark academia | secluded college | murder mystery | beautifully flawed charactersA shout out to my friend Vassa, this is our third buddy read and the three books we have read together so far have all contributed to my all-time favorite list. I’m quite convinced that she has some magical power.
4085857750	I love gothic fiction, and my career is in academia. So dark academia should be a natural fit for my tastes, right? I had high expectations for this book, especially after reading "The Goldfinch," which I loved. Unfortunately, "The Secret History" was a real letdown. I hated the characters. They were just awful. They were all incredibly pretentious and had no personality whatsoever. The plot was rather ridiculous. I found myself bored and detached throughout most of the book. I just didn't care about any of it.I feel like Donna Tartt doesn't understand what life is actually like in academia. The setting and the characters bore no resemblance to academic life. I would have liked this book a lot more if the depiction of academia were more realistic. I'm not giving up on dark academia. But I want characters and a story that I can actually connect with.Maybe next time.
1637600072	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | | (this was made by lucy and boy if it isn't spot on)The Secret History lives rent free in my head. It is a masterpiece. A thing of rare beauty. A tour de force. A literary triumph. “One likes to think there’s something in it, that old platitude amor vincit omnia. But if I’ve learned one thing in my short sad life, it is that that particular platitude is a lie. Love doesn’t conquer everything. And whoever thinks it does is a fool.” Written in an incandescent prose The Secret History is a ferociously erudite and delightfully mischievous work of staggering genius. I have read it twice now and each time it has blown me away. Reading this novel makes for an all-consuming, almost feverish, experience. It is impossible for me to precisely articulate or express what The Secret History means to me. To speak of it as a work of fiction almost pains me. But, as I have chosen to review all of the novels that I read, I will give it a shot. Bear with me (and my ramblings). “Four boys and a girl, they were nothing so unusual at a distance. At close range, though, they were an arresting party—at least to me, who had never seen anything like them, and to whom they suggested a variety of picturesque and fictive qualities.”The Secret History begins with a murder. Richard Papen, our narrator, looks back to the events that lead him and four other students to murder Bunny, a fellow student and ‘friend’ of theirs. That Tartt’s prologue reveals the identity of the victim and perpetrators of the murder. As Richard looks back into this defining period of his life (the only ‘story’ he “will ever be able to tell”) Tartt slowly unravels the events and motivations that led five people to murder as well as the ramifications that this murder has on their lives and their relationship with each other and themselves. In Plano, California, alienated from his parents and his peers, twenty-year-old Richard yearns to leave behind the trappings of his working-class existence. One day he comes across a prospectus for a liberal arts college in Vermont and, against his parents’ wishes, goes on to enrol himself there. At Hampden College, a painfully class-conscious Richard lies. A lot. He fabricates a ‘better’ kind of past and identity for himself, hoping that people will perceive him as he wishes to be perceived. It almost seems inevitable that a romantic like him would fall under the spell of a certain ‘clique’. These five students are the only ones to be enrolled in professor Julian Morrow’s classes, who mainly teaches classical studies. Richard is intrigued by their shared air of mystery. They don’t tend to mingle with other students and seem to belong to an entirely separate world. And Richard wants in on it. When he eventually gets accepted into Julian’s classes he becomes further intoxicated by this clique.In this first section of Richard’s story, the narrative has this almost fairytale-esque quality. Julian appears to Richard as a mythical sort of creature, the kind of mentor-like figure that would not be out of place in a monomyth. Soon Tartt however subverts our expectations by revealing just how fatal Richard’s misperception of his new reality is. The rarefied world Henry, Francis, the twins, and Bunny belong to may not be as the Elysium Richard envisioned it to be. The college itself is not the 'enlightened' haven he'd thought it would be. The more time he spends with his new acquaintances the more he becomes aware of just how dangerously disconnected they are from their everyday modern world (they certainly seem to belong to another time).As the narrative progresses, we learn just how disillusioned all of these characters are by their realities. This disillusionment leads them to apotheosize bygone eras, and, in the case of Richard, idealise their surroundings.Fraying alliances, secrets, and betrayals increase the tension between the characters, heightening the drama.As we learn of the circumstances that led to Bunny’s murder our view of Henry & Co. will begin to change. Their hunger for the inaccessible and desire to transcend their reality, perhaps to access sublimity or a higher plane of existence, leads them to cross—jump over even—quite a few lines. Yet, however flawed they reveal themselves to be (let us say, they seem to have more vices than virtues), I remained transfixed by them.Their lifestyles, while certainly extravagant, are not all that desirable. Considering their poor diets, their heavy drinking and smoking, and, at least in the case of Richard, that they are sleep deprived, it is a miracle that they don’t get scurvy or worse.Tartt doesn’t glamorise their actions and Bunny’s murder takes its toll on them. Between the anxiety of being discovered and the guilt that they (some of them) experience it seems inevitable that things take a turn for the worst. The disintegration of their friendship is hard to read but I was unable to tear my eyes away. That Richard remains on the outskirts of this group makes Henry & Co. all the more intriguing. Henry and Camilla make for extremely ambivalent figures. Because we know as much as Richard does, we often don't know what truly motivates these characters, yet, despite how ambiguous they could be, Tartt is capable of capturing those idiosyncrasies that make them who they are. We learn more about Francis, Charles, and even Bunny, because Richard spends more time with them. While Richard’s relationship with them is far from straightforward I found their interactions to be utterly engrossing. I definitely have a bias when it comes to Francis and I could probably spend hours talking about how much I love him. Really. Just thinking about him makes me emotional (i am aware that he is far from perfect but that is also why i like him so much).Richard, unreliable narrator par par excellence, is an interesting character in his own right. He reminded me ever so slightly of the narrator from Tobias Wolff’s Old School and he even seems to have a touch of the 'dreaded' Emma Bovary (longing 24/7). Tartt demonstrates extreme acuity in the way she conveys Richard’s inner turmoil, his loneliness and his desires. He, like the others, has his fair share of flaws but I found his voice utterly relatable. The boy really has very few people that care about him. His parents seem to act as if he doesn’t exist, his professors ignore or are wholly unaware that he is teetering on the very brink of mental and physical collapse (think of his hellish winter break). Another reason why I find him so compelling is that he's surprisingly supportive of those who have made him feel like an outsider (i am an extremely petty person so, kudos to him). Given the 'otherness' he feels—and is made to feel—I thought it quite fitting that after he cuts his hair he compares himself to Arthur Rimbaud (“Je est un autre” & all that jazz).The love he believes he feels for Camilla seemed very much a result of his “fatal flaw”. That she remains a mystery to him enables him to project his own vision of ‘Camilla’ onto her. Richard seems to regard her as an Estella of sorts, the kind of ethereal beauty that so frequently appears in Victorian novels. Also, is this boy in denial about his sexuality (he’s attracted to her androgynous appearance, her “boy-feet”, her “slightly masculine grace of posture”). In many ways, Camilla is the classic object of unattainable desire (or as our boy lacan would have it "objet petit a"). As long as his love remains unrequited Richard can remain in a perpetual state of longing. Weirdly enough, he finds fulfilment in the perpetuation of his non-fulfilment.This novel is populated by morally dubious characters who frequently transgress social norms. Not everyone is happy to do so and much of the narrative is about the guilt, anguish, anxiety, and sorrow that result from these ‘bad’ choices.The dialogues are by turns sharp, funny, illuminating, and obscure. Many of the exchanges that occur within this narrative filled me with unease, apprehension. Thanks to Richard's foreshadowing we often know that someone is hiding something or that things are going to take a turn for the worst.The unflagging tension created by the ongoing drama between them kept me at the edge-of-my-seat (even during my re-read). Their chemistry is off-the-charts. From their moments of kinship to their devastating fights. Witnessing the slow dissolution of this group filled me with dread. But how real these 'characters' feel to me! Just thinking about them makes my heart ache.Tartt enriches Richard's story with plenty of literary and mythical allusions. From the narrative's underlying Apollonian/Dionysian dichotomy to those beguiling descriptions of the ancient world. The constant blurring of reality and dreams and of truth and illusion makes this novel all the more enigmatic and the kind of book that can be read time and again (i already want to re-read it).The Secret History is a sharp and achingly beautiful novel. Tartt presents her readers with an unforgettable examination of morality, self-knowledge, loneliness, and privilege. The Secret History is a propulsive psychological thriller, a piercing examination of the folly of youth, a cautionary tale against falling for Beauty, for splendid illusions. Tartt’s scintillating style, which is at once elegant and playful, is truly hypnotising. I love how detailed she is in describing Richard's states of mind as well as her vivid descriptions of his surroundings. She often hones in on seemingly small details that end up making a certain scene or moment seem all the more real. But I also loved those moments of almost surreal humor, those brief reprieve in an otherwise unrelentingly intense narrative. What makes this novel all the more intoxicating is that readers end up falling for what the narrative is warning us against. We idealise the characters and their circumstances, we are distracted by the sharp imagery and dazzling aesthetics, so much so that we end up overlooking just how prosaic and depressing certain portions of the story are (pretty sure richard snorts "an awful lot of cocaine in the parking lot of burger king"...yeah). Anyway, as you may have guessed if you are reading this review, I fucking love this novel. Tartt spent 9 years writing it and it sure paid off.I am, and likely always be, in awe of it. SMALL ASIDE:It was my mother who first spoke to me about Donna Tart. Her rather battered paperback copy of The Secret History was a fixture on her bookshelves. She first read it in 1994 (since then she has read it many many many times) when she was about to give birth to my older brother (to quote her: “it got me through labour”) who is exactly the kind of person you imagine him to be. Case in point: he is currently reading the Bāburnāmathe, the memoirs of Ẓahīr-ud-Dīn Muhammad Bābur (naturally, i asked what she was reading while she was pregnant with me and it turns out it would have likely been a children’s book...which explains a lot).A few months before I read The Secret History for the first time I recall overhearing my mum and brother talking about it with such reverence as to suggest that what they were discussing was not ‘merely’ a work of fiction but real people and events. I was intrigued, of course, but it was only after I was suffering from an acute case of book hangover (i’d just finished the raven cycle) that my mother recommended The Secret History to me.I won’t lie, I was worried that it would go way over my head. At that time, I did not have a degree. After dropping out of my Italian high school at age 16 I had managed to complete a rather slapdash qualification in an art and design course, which was based in Swindon—a place described in this novel as being the ‘arsehole’ of the UK—and mostly consisted in us—the students—being left to our devices in order to create whatever art or non-art we wanted to create. Unlike my brother, who spent his childhood and teens reading historical tomes or learning about historical figures or ancient cultures, I never had much interest in those things. All of this is to say that I had very little knowledge of ancient history or the western literary canon, let alone anything related to philosophy. So, I was amazed by how little my lack of knowledge in these things proved to be a hindrance in my reading experience of The Secret History.1.5 degree and 5 years later I am able to understand certain passages or motifs better but to be honest I can't say that this has affected the way I feel about this novel. I also used google a lot because I don't know latin and while I may know more about Nietzsche that 20-year-old me did I still know next-to-nothing about Plato and the other Greek lads and zilch about Buddhist traditions.SECOND ASIDE:Look, I like a lot of books and films that fall into the dark academia subgenre but I have come to despise the whole 'dark academia aesthetics' trend. If you read this novel and all you get out of it is tweed jackets and libraries...you are as bad—if not worse—than Richard (let's glamorise this extremely elitist world...yay).
2595075945	4.5 🌟
5623326269	What's better than reading a book where all the characters deserve to die? I've never finished a book before and felt the urge to reread it right away!! It took me 5 days to finish it. When I closed the book, I was like, That's a good book, but the hype might have been overrated, and two days later, I wanted to reread it. I couldn't stop thinking about it. The secret history follows a cultlike group of students at an elite liberal arts college in Vermont, narrated by Richard, who comes from a poor background compared to the rest of the group. Slowly, Richard becomes utterly obsessed with the five students in this group and tries to join them, but did it ever work? From the prologue, we find out that one of the group got murdered by them when they were supposed to be "his friends." We get to see the events that led to his murder in the first part and the aftermath of the murder in the second part. This book is SO LONG because it's character-driven instead of plot driven which isn't for everyoneWhat makes me can't wait to reread this is how I felt Richard wasn't a reliable narrator after all. Richard is extremely baised because he idolises everyone around him, especially their professor.It was good but probably overwritten for what it was, and I can't lie, I blame this book for the slump I'm in now😭Preview Hi, it's me and my high expectations.
342557	You guys, I am really scared that The Goldfinch was so fucking good that it has ruined me for all other books. Everything I've read since has just felt like stupid bullshit (well, with the exception of You Deserve Nothing , which did manage to rule). Anyway, using the "hair of the dog" theory, I'm turning back to this for a re-read. Maybe once I come out the other side I'll be recalibrated and ready for normal reading life again?***Great good gracious. I am honestly a bit tongue-tied, delirious with delight and awe for Donna Tartt and her ridiculous brilliance. This, this is why I read. To have a book seize me firmly by the lapels, or the nape of the neck, or the roots of my goddamn hair, and fling me along ecstatically, plunged deep in its mysteries, hanging on its every slip of phrase and point of plot and shudderingly lush descriptive passage.Although of course I've read this before, I remembered it with nothing more than a vague fondness. I'd guess I probably read it in 2002 or 2003, and although I am a widely acknowledged literary snob now, I wonder if I was actually spoiled from reading better books then, back when my days revolved around work at a bookstore, when there were great golden stretches of time for me to languish over Gravity's Rainbow and Hopscotch and Underworld, before life sped up and filled with real jobs and too much internet-ing and the realities of credit card debt and walking the dogs and proofreading romance novels. What I mean is: How did I not recall this book as the harrowingly amazing accomplishment that it is? Honestly I don't think I even remembered that the book didn't end after Bunny died (hush up with your cries of spoilery; Bunny's death is revealed in the book's very first sentence). I didn't remember a thing about the magical trill of her gorgeous prose, about the great full depth of her characters, who feel more real to me at this moment than many of my friends. I forgot the sheer number of literary allusions she tosses off with such casual aplomb, the way she weaves in four different languages, the way her dialogue burbles, like a perfect stream. I forgot (or may not have quite noticed) how much she hates hippies, how much she loves coke, how she idolizes while pitying the idle rich and those who rigorously devote themselves to worshipping at the altar of intellect. Anyway. I do feel better now, somehow, about moving on back to rest of the universe of non-Tartt literature. It's been wonderful to spend these weeks languishing in her worlds, and to know that they're there any time I should need to slip back into them, to restore my faith in the written word and its power.
2947229700	video review: https://youtu.be/WGDh1nKhtUgdid anyone think I was actually going to like this?lemme first say that I am clearly in the minority here. I have heard & read nothing but glowing reviews for years now. and those edits all over tumblr? MASTERPIECES. let me also say, and I cannot stress this enough: I. Don’t. Understand. Why. right off the bat, I am not a literary fiction fan so take this review with a grain of salt. but every single book I have ever read (past, present, across all genres) I have been able to see why people may like it no matter how much I hated said book. this is the only book I have ever read that I haven’t a SINGLE idea why one would enjoy this book. and you must be asking: heathur how can you say this when SO many people have given this 5 stars? and my answer to this is: I AM JUST AS CONFUSED AS YOU ARE. for once in my life I am not meaning to be come off as a bitch; I really just DONT GET IT. this dilemma of trying to find the source of pleasure in this book has given me more mental stimulation than the entire book itself. I have read almost every review on this site in order to try to open myself up to different opinions. despite my searching, however, no one seems to be able to convey in a none pretentious & intangible way why they praise this so much. but let’s look at some examples, shall we?1. The writing is atmospheric, engaging, & dripping of skill. now I am not a writer. I am not equipped to “properly” judge a critically acclaimed author. but I can say that I have never read a more bland writing style in my life, regardless of plot (well... lack there of). I can’t even characterize tartt’s writing to give examples because, like the rest of her book & characters, it has no personality. the only instances that were “atmospheric” would be when she described the vermont landscape. but that’s the setting of the book. that doesn’t deserve praise because she can describe snow; that’s bare minimum. the book is the OPPOSITE of engaging because tartt managed to make murder, rituals, greek culture, and dark academia so boring that you ask yourself time and time again why you’re putting yourself through this torture. THERE WASNT EVEN A TON OF GREEK SHIT. they drank, drank some more, did drugs, killed someone, drank some more, and did more drugs. THEY DIDNT EVEN DO ANYTHING WHIST HIGH OFF THEIR MINDS. honestly my pot head ass’s binge nights of great british bake-off are more entertaining to watch. if absolutely meandering to no end with no commentary, barely-there metaphors, and lack of flavor is the key to an award winning novel, charles dickens’s legacy must live on. 2. Full of characters that are so complex and bad but you root for them anyway. 10/10 I will root for the villain. I’m just that bitch. these characters real of pretentiousness but I knew that going in. these characters are also horrendous people. they believe they’re better than everyone because they study greek (which btw doesn’t make you cool in the slightest) and they are constantly homophobic & racist (which is all unchallenged by the way, loved that.) but despite that they were the absolute MOST boring characters I’ve ever had the displeasure of reading about. I couldn’t even hate them because they invoked 0 emotions in me. they have no personalities, no interests, nothing (of course besides lot, and lots of drugs). they even had a dionysian sex ritual and we didn’t even get to see that!! HOW DO YOU MAKE CULT RITUAL BORING??? the characters go through a devolution in this book but you can’t even appreciate it because you don’t have stake in the characters. 3. This is a story you won’t forget. really? because I was forgetting about it 50 pages in. what exactly will I not forget? the time I wasted reading this? 4. This is a modern greek tragedy. EURIPEDES I AM SO SORRY THAT UGLY BITCH SAID THAT. if you think this is in any way a greek tragedy, PLEASE FOR THE LOVE OF GODS let me know so I can recommend you brilliant plays because clearly you’re not reading the right ones. the only thing I managed to get out of this book was valuing aesthetics over reality and letting those ideas take over. that message did not need to be told in 500+ pages. I truly could rant for days and days over how frustrated I am by how meaningless, uninspiring, and pointless this read was. I know this review is harsh. I know this is a favorite. and please, if you are willing to try and explain further the appeal of this book I am begging you to do so because like I said, I am grasping at straws here. to me, this isn’t a preference thing, this is a self worth thing. LMAO. mayhaps I’ll do a rant review.......
1772021275	3 star? 3.5 stars!?God. I don't frickin' know. It feels kind of wrong give 3 stars to a book written so well, & it certainly isn't a bad book, but I definitely didn't enjoy this as much as I wanted to.FULL RTC!
24357698	This book is an absolute masterpiece, and probably my No.1 all-time favourite. Every time I read it I am simply overcome with awe and joy at Donna Tartt's perfect writing, characterisation, plot, everything. Nothing I say can do any justice to how brilliant The Secret History actually is; looking at that five-star rating, it seems insufficient. Anyone reading this who hasn't had the pleasure of enjoying this modern classic - buy it immediately. And while I am always happy to tolerate and accept people not loving the same things I do - different strokes and all that - I've got to say that if you don't like this, I AM JUDGING YOU.
5075090959	„Това е език, обсебен от действието, от насладата да наблюдаваш как деянието поражда друго деяние, как то се отправя напред, последвано от други деяния, които прииждат от всички страни и някъде там, назад, тръгват в крак и образуват една дълга и стройна редица от причина и следствие, които неизбежно ще доведат до единствения възможен край.“Абсолютно възхитен съм от „Тайната история“! Първата ми среща с творчеството на Дона Тарт беше великолепно книжно преживяване, което надхвърли всичките ми очаквания... Романът представлява многопластова и трогателна история, чието действие не е динамично, но тъкмо заради това успява да навлезе в сърцевината на темата за престъпността сред младежите, а и е изпълнена с впечатляващи разнообразни литературни препратки! Дона пише невероятно добре, така че поднася на читателите по много елегантен начин важни за осъзнаване въпроси относно убийството, употребата на наркотици и жестокия морален упадък като цяло... Основните персонажи са ярки и сложни личности, които страшно ме развълнуваха и не бих могъл еднозначно да намразя, въпреки тяхното падение! Ричард отива в колежа в Хампдън, където да учи литература. Понеже в миналото е изучавал старогръцки, той решава отново да се запише за часове по древния език. Този негов избор го отвежда при загадъчния и елитарен преподавател Джулиан, който рядко приема нови студенти. Започвайки учебната година, Ричард бързо се сприятелява с останалите от неговата група - Хенри, Франсис, Бъни и близнаците Чарлс и Камила. Отношенията му с новите и на пръв поглед доста по-богати приятели потръгват учудващо добре. Обаче с времето разбира за някои техни мрачни тайни, които впоследствие водят до трагични събития...„Смутих се, когато станах център на вниманието им. Сякаш изведнъж образите от любима картина, вечно погълнати от собствените си занимания, бяха вперили поглед извън платното и ми бяха проговорили.“„Защото ако съвременният ум е капризен и непоследователен, класическият ум е точен, непоколебим и неумолим. Този тип способност на ума не се среща често в наши дни. И въпреки че съм в състояние да прескачам от тема на тема с най-добрите майстори на разговора, дълбоко вътре в себе си съм склонен да се вкопчвам в една тема.“„Изненадах се колко лесно успяха да ме приобщят към тяхното циклично, византийско съществуване.“„За мен тя бе истински блян: щом я зърнех, у мен се разпалваше безкрайна поредица от фантазии — от древногръцкото до готическото, от вулгарното до божественото.“„— Знаеш ли какво казва Джулиан за „Божествена комедия“? — Не, Хенри, не знам. — Че е неразбираема за всеки, който не е християнин. Тоест, ако някой иска да прочете и разбере Данте, той трябва да стане християнин, пък дори и за няколко часа.“„Бъни създаваше илюзия за дружелюбна и непоколебима твърдост, но всъщност имаше изключително непостоянен характер. За това имаше ред причини, но онази, която изпъкваше над всички останали, бе абсолютната му неспособност да разсъди, преди да направи нещо.“„Музиката във великата поезия се усеща дори и когато човек не знае езика. Обожавах Данте, преди да науча и една дума на италиански.“„Именно това придаваше толкова изкусителен ореол на загадъчност на всичко, което правеше или казваше. Няма никакво съмнение, че неговият личен живот бе също толкова несъвършен, колкото и на всички останали хора, но единствената страна от характера му, която ни позволяваше да видим, бе полирана до такова съвършенство, та ми се струваше, че и когато бе далеч от нас, води невъобразимо префинен живот.“„В гласа му имаше тревога, но погледът му бе странно замечтан. Знаех, че цялата тази история го бе разстроила, но бях наясно, че в хайката имаше един оперетен размах, който нямаше как да не му допадне, и че изпитваше смътно задоволство от естетиката на събитията.“„— Напротив, ядосан си. — Не, не съм — отвърнах. Тези внезапни, панически опити да се помирим ме дразнеха повече от обидите му.“„Толкова ме болеше, докато го слушах — Хенри! — да се запъва с думите — опасявам се, че затова съзнанието ми е блокирало голяма част от тях. Подхвана съвсем типично, като се опита да се оправдае, но много бързо се препъна в безцветния отблясък на мълчанието на Джулиан.“„Когато преразказвах тези събития, се борех срещу склонността да обрисувам Джулиан прекалено сантиментално, да го накарам да изглежда прекален светец, което на практика би означавало да го подправя, само за да направя нашето благоговение пред него по-разбираемо. И да придам на образа му нещо повече освен собствената ми склонност да правя интересните хора добри.“„Мисля си за доста неща. Мисля си за първия път, когато видях бреза, за последния, когато видях Джулиан, за първото изречение, което чух и научих на гръцки. Χαλεπά τά καλά. „Красотата е жестока.“
2254394196	DNF at 55% because I can't keep doing this to myself.I'm very disappointed with this; I had high expectations for intrigue, dark-academia vibes, mystery and thrill. None was delivered. I'm sorry if it's a favorite of yours - which I know is the case for many - but I just don't see the point of this drag, boring and slow-torture. Like we know what's going to happen from the very first page and nothing from there-on is surprise or even a little bit interesting to keep me going.
4485968149	5 stars ☆ i feel so empty right now.
747785395	The Secret History held my attention until its novelty wore off. Donna Tartt weaves an intriguing tale about a group of mysterious, pretentious college students who murder one of their own. We learn about this act of violence on page one, and the rest of the book describes the circumstances that occur both before and after it. Our narrator, Richard Papen, joins this exclusive clique of Classics students as a naive, longing soul - and he soon realizes that their circle hides more than lots of money and the study of Greek.Donna Tartt's prose makes the plot of The Secret History so much more and so much better than it actually is. On a basic level, the story really does just revolve around the dangerous, melodramatic misadventures of a bunch of snobby kids. However, Tartt imbues Richard's voice with cunning detail and a pavonine nostalgia. Her writing contains a penetrating, chilling quality that pulls you into her characters' lives while supplying them all with an aura of secrecy and deep, subdued emotion.However, parallel to Richard's experience with his peers, I grew tired of Tartt's writing about two-thirds into the book. Her prose got repetitive in that several passages gave off the impression that Tartt wanted them to sound impressive, but they came across as over-the-top or just unimportant in the grand scheme of things. The characters' lives lost their glamor ((view spoiler)[beyond just the dissolving of their group as an enigma (hide spoiler)]) and the affective distance that once made them all compelling, ended up showcasing the shortcomings of Tartt's overall story in The Secret History. Overall, a decent read that lost its magic the more it neared its conclusion. Because of all the hype surrounding Tartt, I may still check out The Goldfinch, though I do want to read other people's opinions on The Secret History, so maybe they could educate me - (view spoiler)[and maybe fail to, as Julian did with his students (hide spoiler)] - on why this book has all its hype.
1416542252	I cannot make up my mind about whether I enjoyed or despised this book. And the more I think about it, the more I think that it might be because Donna Tartt can’t seem to decide herself how she feels about the Ivy League blue bloods she wrote about: sometimes she loves them and wants to be like them and sometimes she really hates their guts. This feeling of ambivalence covered the entire book like an angry but undecided cloud; it was annoying.I also feel like the book had a hard time deciding what kind of book it even was: the set-up of secrets, murder and paranoia is all classic noir, but it’s not really dark and bloody enough to be full-on noir. The complete lack of moral barometer of the characters, and their obsession with beauty as an end in itself is a great launching pad for a fascinating character study or psychological thriller. But that’s not really the way the narrative is developed, since the story is told as a recollection of events long-passed… It could also be meant to be critical of the elitist academic culture, but Tartt doesn’t have the talent (or wit) of Edith Warton, so it just sounds like she bitterly envies the tweed-wearing, stick-shift driving pompous asses she created.Having read and loved “Brideshead Revisited”, I feel like Tartt wanted to write her own version of the story with Richard as a stand in for Charles Ryder and a murder dumped in the middle of the story. The similarities between the two characters bothered me through the entire book. Just like Charles, Richard just wants to be one of them, one of those privileged, pampered, lazily intellectual classmates he hangs out with. But while I cared about Charles immensely, Richard struck me as a little pathetic. Of course, none of the characters in this book are remotely likable, and that’s perfectly OK with me, but I enjoy characters who are unlikable with a little bit of panache, I guess.The other characters are interesting, but, except for Bunny (who I had quite enough of by page 200) they feel underdeveloped. I wanted to explore their personalities a bit more. The dynamic between the twins as well as Camilla and Henry’s relationship are only superficially grazed upon, when digging a little deeper would have been fascinating. I totally see the appeal of self-absorbed and arrogant intellectuals and how glamorous they seem: I used to want to be one myself! But having seen the ugly side of academia, now people like that just makes me roll my eyes. I also never understood what makes Julian so charismatic, how he has a hold on Henry and how he managed to have such a troubling influence on his entire class. He seemed simply aloof to me, and I can’t grasp how he inspired his students to recreate a bacchanalia. The plot device of telling you what’s going to happen in the first couple of pages was clever: it creates an anticipation. You know what’s going to happen but you want to know how, and I really enjoyed that. The descriptions were lovely and atmospheric and the explorations of the little group’s strange philosophies and ideas was quite mesmerizing - as was the slow and toxic process of their little group falling to pieces. Parts of the book are beautifully written and moving, but it always feels a bit too cold and detached to be really gripping. I can see how some people would love this, but maybe it’s because I’ve been to school with people like that and wanted them dead: I just can’t feel invested. I was curious to know how this all wrapped up, but I wasn’t on the edge of my seat.Even after a second read (which I will admit was more enjoyable than the first), I'm still not sure. So because I can’t figure it out, I am giving this a neutral 3 stars.
78094488	This was one of those books that formed my everingrained inclinations toward the masterful dominions of novel writing-- I uphold the notion that it is above all other are forms. Yes, let me begin and say that I did not think this a masterpiece now, & before (c.a. 2001) I did. This was once, like, in my top ten !!! Tartt writes like any writer wanting to sell copies (masterfully)-- concisely, with a full-rounded voice and interesting historical insight along the way. There is something about reading this AFTER college, after the initial reading was done, that takes away from my more sophomoric reading of it, in which I can attest that my pupils dilated throughout.There is a dilution of facts in the novel since most of them are told to the protagonist second-hand. It is this theme I found most attractive this time around: what if it is all a figment of the narrator's imagination? (a-la "One Flew Over a Cuckoos Nest?") What if the college student learns ALONG the way, does not disclose his ACTUAL feelings, but like a maestro, makes them add up to something whole, like a musical piece. I remember me (also a Biology pariah then entering an English program) at that time: trying to embellish the small, & making the irrelevant relevant even. I felt this time that the plot's a wee bit thin (but NOT HOPELESS, like "The Little Friend"). The characters might be interchangeable, and the secret history is all but hinted at and never actually fully disclosed. That's what I appreciate in this. And there is always the appreciation of having been changed by a masterwork earlier in life, when it actually sorta counted, than later. Melancholic because I am getting older*---that's indeed an accomplishment for a novel to impart, no?*which leads to less time for leisure and more time to NOT read, as is evident by my failed attempts at reading Henry James's "The Ambassadors" and "The Rise of Silas Lapham." This is why Donna Tartt seemed like the perfect catalyst to disrupt my recent reading stagnation.
1855569911	I read The Secret History back in March and, ever since, I have been thinking about it constantly. If someone were to ask me what is my favorite book, this one would first come to mind. If I were to recommend a book, it would be this book. If I could live in a book.. well, you understand where I'm getting at.First and foremost, I should mention that I am quite a patient reader. I would rather read a thousand pages of slow action, which others may call boring, than a three hundred page fast-paced story that is hurried and insubstantial. I also appreciate florid prose and the deep level of introspection granted by first person narration.That being said, this book has hit the mark for me in every aspect: writing style, character development, intrigue, plot. I could feel Donna Tartt's meticulousness and skill in every sentence. If I could choose to "borrow" someone's style for myself as a writer, it would hands-down be Donna Tartt. I find it hard to review books that I loved because it's so much harder to pinpoint exactly what is so great about them. I could talk about many aspects which distinguish this work as a valuable from a literary perspective; a popular opinion since this book has gotten critical acclaim. Instead, the decisive factor for my appreciation of The Secret History is the impact it left on me, making me feel immersed and emotionally invested from beginning to end. When I think about its events and characters, I get this almost indescribable feeling of familiarity and remembrance. I'm sure other readers can relate, for me this is the most fulfilling experience one can get from a story.This is one I regret never being able to read for the first time again. So, if any of my friends decide to read it, you have my encouragement and my envy. :)
2849375350	“I suppose at one time in my life I might have had any number of stories, but now there is no other. This is the only story I will ever be able to tell.” Came to change the rating because I can't stop thinking about this book... Maybe it is time for a re-read...?
2140898155	"Duty, piety, loyalty, sacrifice"what could i possibly say about this modern classic that could describe how good it is.... i don't think words do it justice. from its critiques on academic elitism to its clever and eerie references to mythology that play out throughout the novel, it truly is no surprise that tartt's brilliant novel is regarded as a modern staple in literature.this is truly a book that i will never forget for as long as i live.
873132943	This book will linger in my memory for a long time. I was nearly finished with it last night, and found myself awake thinking not only about how it will end, but about several of the scenes and how they come together in the end. The author wrote this book masterfully and I found myself completely immersed in the story and the characters.The plot moves slowly, but it has so much depth and complexity it needs to. I read this book after Tartt's The Little Friend (despite the lower reviews), and I am glad I did. This book is so well crafted I probably would've been tempted to score The Little friend lower simply because my expectations going into it would've been much higher.The author is able to effectively recreate the mood and atmosphere of a group of people that discover what it really means to kill someone, the aftermath, and the consequences of truly transforming their consciousness into a way of thinking that vanished with the classic era. The superimposition of this world view imposed on modern seekers of the ancient classic culture, and the plot twists and turns that are a direct result of this blend, are intricately woven as the story reveals itself layer by layer.The characters are realistic, believable, and never what they seem. Throughout the story the author wraps up loose ends neatly, moving from section to section in a systematic fashion. The ending of the story is complete and satisfying as was the entire book.Highly recommended for patient and thoughtful readers.
872693622	I read this because I enjoyed The Goldfinch so much. This, her first book, had great reviews and consequently I think I was expecting to find more riches than I actually did. It’s a story about a group of students studying at a New England college and the events that eventually consume them all. Likes:It’s stayed with me and lots of books don’t, even some of the good ones.A certain ‘atmosphere’ is created and there is an ongoing undercurrent of tension that is sustained throughout.The writing is of a really high standard - this lady can certainly turn a phrase.The underlying story is a good one and (if you cut out all the 'noise') it's very well told. Dislikes:All of the protagonists except the eccentric Greek tutor.I don’t feel I really I got to know or understand the person through whose eyes the story is told.It’s way too long and drags horribly at times – there are extended sections where nothing happens.Actually, apart from three short sections nothing much does happen.There’s too much focus on the micro detail of the ancient Greek studies undertaken by the students (the whole book is dripping in quotes and obscure references).The book is too clever by half, in fact it feels like it's seeking to impress on the reader just how clever the author is. For all that, I’d still queue at the bookshop to get an early copy of Tartt’s next novel, based wholly on her expertise as a writer and the amazingness (ok – not a word the author would have used) of The Goldfinch.
