7184196	Oh Dorian. Oh Dorian.When I first read this book in the fruitless years of my youth I was excited, overwhelmed and a blank slate (as Dorian is, upon his first encounter with Lord Henry) easily molded, persuaded, influenced, etc.Certain Wildisms (Wildeisms?) would take my breath away. Would become my mottos to believe in. To follow. To live.Lines like:"It is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.""But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins. Intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face.""If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat.""Genius lasts longer than Beauty. That accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate ourselves. In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place.""You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know."Re-reading this masterpiece and coming upon these highlighted lines was possibly more interesting than the book this time. Why had I highlighted these lines? Do they still mean the same thing to me, as they did when I first took note of them, enough to highlight them? I still love all of those lines. But no longer feel so strongly for them.Now these are lines that stick out still to me. Or were newly underlined on the second pass through. New Wildisms to mold me."Oh, I can't explain. When I like people immensely I never tell their names to any one. It is like surrendering a part of them. I have grown to love secrecy. It seems to be the one thing that can make modern life mysterious or marvelous to us. The commonest thing is delightful if one only hides it. When I leave town now I never tell my people where I am going. If I did, I would lose all my pleasure. It is a silly habit, I dare say, but somehow it seems to bring a great deal of romance into one's life. I suppose you think me awfully foolish about it?""Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty.""Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far the best ending for one.""I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good intellects.""Ah! this Morning! You have lived since then.""what brings you out so early? I thought you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till five." --A new personal favorite. That I follow very seriously."She behaves as if she was beautiful. Most American women do. It is the secret of their charm."'He thought for a moment. "Can you remember any great error that you committed in your early days, Duchess?" he asked, looking at her across the table. "A great many, I fear," she cried."Then commit them over again," he said, gravely. "To get back one's youth one has merely to repeat one's follies.""A delightful theory!" she exclaimed. " I must put it into practice.""Besides, each time that one loves is the only time one has ever loved. Difference of object does not alter singleness of passion."It turns out that all of these quotes occur in the first 45 pages, except that last one which is right near the end. And it seems most of my reviews end up being mostly quotes from the book itself, but I figure this is what shaped and informed my reading, so I want to share it with all of you. What do you think of it all?That said, poor Sybil Vane! Poor James Vane! Poor Basil Hallward! Shit, even poor old Lord Henry Wotton! And Dorian! Oh Dorian! Lead the life you did and for what? That's all I am going to say about the book. I don't think I shall read Against Nature, for fear of being seduced like Dorian.If you're tired of this review or just tired in general, stop now and come back later. I am going to include two more quotes from the book that truly fucked me up. So much I had to read them at least 3 times in a row. And then transcribe them here for you. The last section, thats the one that did it. Beautiful.Here goes:"There is no such thing as a good influence, Mr. Gray. All influence is immoral-immoral from the scientific point of view.""Why?""Because to influence a person is to give him one's own soul. He does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. His virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed. He becomes an echo of some one else's music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him. The aim of life is self-development. To realize one's nature perfectly-that is what each of us is here for. People are afraid of themselves nowadays. They have forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one's self. Of course they are charitable. They feed the hungry and cloth the beggar. But their own souls starve, and are naked. Courage has gone out of our race. Perhaps we never really had it. The terror of society, which is the basis of morals; the terror of God, which is the secret of religion-these are the two things that govern us. And yet-""And yet," continues Lord Henry, in his low, musical voice,"I believe that if one man were to live out his life fully and completely, were to give form to every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream-I believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we would forget all the maladies of mediaevalism, and return to the Hellenic ideal-to something finer, richer than the Hellenic ideal, it may be. But the bravest man among us is afraid of himself. The mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial that mars our lives. We are punished for our refusals. Every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us. The body sins once, and has done with its sins, for action is a mode of purification. Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret. The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful. It has been said that the great events of the world take place in the brain. It is in the brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place also. You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid, thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame-""Stop!" faltered Dorian Gray, "stop! you bewilder me. I don't know what to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don't speak. Let me think, or, rather, let me try not to think."Whew.And:"There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamored of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those who minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie. Gradually white fingers creep through the curtains, and they appear to tremble. In black, fantastic shapes, dumb shadows crawl into the corners of the room, and crouch there. Outside, there is the stirring of the birds among the leaves, or the sound of men going forth to their work, or the sigh and sob of the wind coming down from the hills and wandering round the silent house, as though it feared to wake the sleeper, and yet must needs call forth Sleep from her purple cave. Veil after veil of thin, dusky gauze is lifted, and by degrees the forms and colors of things are restored to them, and we watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern. The wan mirrors get back their mimic life. The flameless tapers stand where we had left them, and beside them lies the half-cut book that we had been studying, or the wired flower that we had worn at the ball, or the letter we had been afraid to read, or that we had read too often. Nothing seems to us changed. Out of the unreal shadows of the night comes back the real life that we had known. We have to resume it where we had left off, and there steals over us a terrible sense of the necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of stereotyped habits, or a wild longing, it may be, that our eyelids might open some morning upon a world that had been refashioned anew in the darkness for our pleasure, a world in which things would have fresh shapes and colors, and be changed, or have other secrets, a world in which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate, in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of joy having its bitterness, and the memories of pleasure their pain."Yep.
969976520	I finished reading this last night, and afterwards I spent an entire hour staring into space so I could contemplate over the majesty of this work. It left me speechless. This book is exquisite; it is an investigation into the human soul, the power of vanity and the problems of living a life with not a single consequence for your actions. It’s truly powerful stuff. It begins with a simple realisation, and perhaps an obvious one. But, for Dorian it is completely life changing. He realises that beauty is finite. It won’t last forever. It’s like a flower, temporary and splendid. So if you’re a young man whose appearance is your singular quality, then this is some damn scary news. People only want to be with you because you’re attractive and charming; they want to be near you, and with you, for your looks only. So when that goes what do you have left? Nothing. No friends. No love. Only age. So what do you do? How do you retain your singular quality? Well, the answer is simple, you copy Doctor Faustus (The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus) and sell your soul to the devil!"How sad it is!" murmured Dorian Gray with his eyes still fixed upon his own portrait. "How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrible, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be older than this particular day of June. . . . If it were only the other way! If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old! For that -- for that -- I would give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for that!" And this is where the real depravity begins. Dorian’s world has no consequences. Everything he does is attributed to the painting, everything. Any regret or malice leaves him quickly and is transferred to the canvas. So he can’t technically feel emotion for an extended period of time; thus, his attitude becomes one of nonchalance. He becomes a shell, an emotionless creature who can only seek his sin: vanity. He surrounds himself with beauty. His house is full of art, brilliant music and every luxury known to man. You name it. Dorian’s got it. Only through seeking new experiences, these pleasures, can Dorian’s being remain animated. I intentionally used the word “being” for Dorian’s body no longer harbours his soul; it’s in the painting. Everything he does is for his own indulgence; he just doesn’t care what affect his presence has on others. The prefect moment is all he lives for. “I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.”The character of Dorian Gray is an interesting study because he is representative of many things. He shows how a seemingly pure soul can be corrupted if it’s left in a sense of privation and given terrible guidance. Also he is suggestive of the Victorian ideal of the perfect societal image. One must be respectable at all times, and have all the appropriate airs and graces. But behind closed doors, or perhaps even a curtain, anything goes. He is suggestive of the hidden evils of Victorian society as behind the mask was many dark things. For example, the Empire and colonialism to the Victorians was a wonderful thing; it built wealth and structure, but in reality it destroyed culture and subjected peoples to slavery. The same things can be said of child labour, the exploitation of women and terrible working conditions. Everything exists behind a veil of grandeur, and this is no less true for Dorian. The homosexual suggestions are practically ground-breaking. Wilde wasn’t the only Victorian author to suggest such things. Robert Louis Stevenson’s The Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll and Mr Hyde can be read in a similar vein, but Wilde was much more explicit. It’s not cryptic; it’s just plain homosexual lust for all to see on the part of Basil and (perhaps?) even Sir Henry later on. It’s still rather horrific that Wilde was actually arrested for homosexual acts. Silly Victorians. The novel also shows that despite being corrupted to such a degree, to commit murder in such a terrible sense, Dorian (the Victorian man?) isn’t beyond all redemption. He can still come back from his deeds and end it all. The ending was perfection. This has great allegorical meaning. __________________________________You can connect with me on social media via My Linktree.__________________________________
392371984	"The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion. It is not he who is revealed by the painter; it is rather the painter who, on the coloured canvas, reveals himself. The reason I will not exhibit this picture is that I am afraid that I have shown in it the secret of my own soul." And so begins this tale of art and sin. I would highly recommend first watching the movie Wilde, a film which takes the audience on a journey through the life of the tormented writer, from the beginnings of his fame to his later incarceration for "gross indecency" - a charge used to imprison individuals when it was impossible to prove sodomy. Wilde was sentenced to two years hard labour and died not long after being freed due to health problems gained during those two years. Looking at Wilde's story from a twenty-first century perspective, it is sad and horrifying to realise this man was indirectly sentenced to death for being gay. The "hard labour" prescribed was carried out in various ways but one of the most common was the treadmill:This machine made prisoners walk continuously uphill for hours on end and had many long-term effects on people's health.Why do I think it's important to know this? Because, as Wilde claims, in every piece of art there is more of the artist than anything else. And I believe this is especially true of The Picture of Dorian Gray more than perhaps any other fictional work I've read. In this novel, Wilde explores the nature of sin, of morality and immorality. The homoerotic undertones between Dorian Gray, Basil Hallward and Lord Henry Wotton are, I think, the author's little expression of his own secret "sins" within his work. Rarely does a work of fiction so deeply seem to mirror elements of the author's life.By 1891, when The Picture of Dorian Gray was published, Oscar Wilde had met and fallen in love with Lord Alfred Douglas and they had begun a semi-secret affair. By which I mean that many were suspicious of the relationship but didn't argue with Wilde's claims that they shared a Socrates/Plato teacher/student kind of love. The idolisation of Dorian Gray's youth and beauty, his tendency to be mean at random... these characteristics all fit with the description and personality of Lord Alfred Douglas. For me, there is no real question as to whether part of Dorian is meant to be Mr Wilde's lover.I think if you familiarise yourself with Oscar Wilde, this becomes a very personal novel, much more than just a disturbing horror story where a man sells his soul. But even without any additional information, I think this is a sad and haunting book that tells of the joyful naivete of youth and the sad wisdom of maturity.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
15083340	** spoiler alert ** This book reminded me why I hate classics.Like Frankenstein, it starts out with a great premise: what if a portrait bore the brunt of age and sin, while the person remained in the flush of youth? How would that person feel as they watched a constant reminder of their true nature develop? And like Frankenstein, it gets completely bogged down in uninteresting details and takes forever to get to the interesting bits. Seriously, in a 230-page novel, the portrait doesn't even start to change until 100 pages in. And it's so damn flowery. Every time Lord Harry starts talking (and believe me, he likes to talk) he's so witty. Witty witty witty. Ahahaha, you're soooooooo worldly wise and charming. And entirely cynical! You just have a quip for everything, don't you? Look, reader, look. See Harry. See Harry corrupt Dorian. Corrupt, Harry, corrupt! I actually ended up skimming most of the book. I really thought about stopping, but I hoped it would redeem itself by the end. It didn't. I should have just skipped to the last page. So to save you, dear reader, the same pain I went through, is the summary of Dorian Gray (spoilers, of course):Dorian semi-consciously makes Faustian bargain to transfer all his sins and signs of age to his portrait. He sins and feels guilty about it, but keeps doing it anyway. He finally decides to get ride of the portrait/evidence and stabs the painting. Surprise, it breaks the spell, and he is left ugly, old and dead while his portrait returns to its original form. The end. You can thank me later. UPDATE 9/3/12: Since this review is still around and kicking four years later, I thought I might point like-minded individuals to a new parody of classic literature to the tune of Call Me Maybe: Call Me Ishmael!
1655540149	2021 - I re-read this for university and loved it even more the second time round... Lord Henry is a paradigmatic sophist and his epigrams are delightful (partly because it's easy to forget that he is more rhetoric than truth). The connection between youthful appearance and character is also so fascinating, especially since Wilde is writing at the end of the century where physiognomy is an outdated science. What does it mean to be young? And can innocence ever be restored?2017 - If you haven't already, you HAVE TO read this! Wilde delves into the cartesian dualist debate, asking us to question where the self truly does reside (and contradicting the popular Victorian idea of physiognomy). In his personal Fall and descent into sinfulness I saw similarities with H.G. Wells's 'The Invisible Man' where sin thrives simply because the individual cannot be held accountable. Similarly, the debate about the value of art is intriguing and, after reading this, I recommend reading Poe's 'The Oval Mirror' because, again, there are definite similarities.
1806948637	Books like this are why I love classics. They may be old as hell, but in another, much more real way, they never get old.We as a society will never outgrow the need for a beautifully written book about being hot and evil.End review.Bottom line: Valiantly resisting the urge to make this book my entire personality.----------------------pre-review"To get back my youth I would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early, or be respectable."and who says the classics aren't relatable.review to come / 4 stars ----------------------currently-reading updatesnice eternal youth and beauty you got there. i sure hope you don't descend into mortal sin with it
2973704538	Some of u have never damned ur soul to remain forever young and it shows
4340404927	*gay drama*
1138903558	instantly a new all time favorite
4078774540	RIP dorian gray you would've loved botox
2721651987	”He grew more and more enamoured of his own beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul.”I think I must have been about fifteen when I read “The Picture of Dorian Gray” for the very first time and I was totally blown away by it. There was this book, written in such a beautiful way, using such colourful and flowery language and there were those three amazing characters that made me feel and wonder and question their lives and decisions! You might say that up until I picked up “The Picture of Dorian Gray” I was as innocent as Dorian himself. I didn’t know that there were books like that out there, that there actually existed morally grey characters, corrupted characters, book characters that felt like real people and could make you question their behaviour. It was an entirely new world for me and I was totally fascinated by it. So I read this book and I savoured every sentence, I devoured its wisdom and got lost in its pages! Looking at it in retrospective I think that Oscar Wilde actually was the first writer who didn’t only make me love classics but also the first author that ignited my undying love for villains and complex characters. And for that I’ll always be grateful! I don’t know how often I read this book by now (goodreads your count doesn’t even get close to the actual number *lol*), but no matter how often I already read it, I’m still captivated by it. My fifteen year old me loved it as much as my 31 year old me does and if you ask me that’s exactly what makes a good classic. ;-) I’m sure I’ll never get tired of reading this book and I’ll always discover new things about it. And I genuinely hope that many other people will read it as well. It’s definitely worth it! ;-)The characters: Warning: You are now entering the gallery of “Spoilery Spoilers” and since this is one of my all-time faves I’ll probably end up writing an entire essay about it. If you prefer to stay innocent you better leave before my spoilers get to you and corrupt your soul! ;-P Dorian Gray:”It held the secret of his life, and told his story. It had taught him to love his own beauty. Would it teach him to loathe his own soul?” Dorian Gray! I don’t even know where to start! I love his character to bits and pieces and he’s definitely one of the most intriguing book characters I ever had the pleasure to read about. At the beginning of the book he’s so innocent and naïve and I totally agree with Lord Henry when he says that this is charming. Dorian definitely is a charming character! He’s beautiful and pure and whenever I read the beginning of the book I get a sudden urge to protect him against everything that’s going to happen over the course of those 256 pages! He’s like a child that gets corrupted by the bad influence of others and when I write this I really mean it! Even at his worst he still seems to retain that innocent outlook at things. I mean he was corrupted and tainted by Lord Henry, and he ends up corrupting and tainting his friends but despite all of this he still wonders why they have become like that. He’s completely oblivious to his own role in their downfall and when Basil confronts him with it, he doesn’t believe him. He is convinced that his friends could have done the right thing and that his influence on them isn’t as strong as Basil claims it to be. What is even more intriguing is that Dorian actually wants to be good! There’s a part of him that’s still innocent and hopes that he can be redeemed, but there’s also that other side of him that whispers that he’s entitled to do whatever he wishes to do. It’s obvious that he’s fighting an inner struggle and that he seems to have lost his way. It’s the century old question every person has to ask her/himself. Do I want to be good? And even more important: Can I resist being bad? It’s so easy to do the wrong thing and it’s so tough to do what’s right. I mean that’s the main reason why actors and role-players love to be the baddies! Being bad is fun, it gives you a lot of freedom and if you’re good at it the consequences never catch up to you. ;-P So Dorian constantly finds himself at a crossroads. Will he do the right thing or is he going to give into his bad side? Is his bad side truly that bad? Is having a little fun with his friends and to indulge in pleasure wrong or is it just a part of being human? The fate of Dorian Gray makes you think and it involuntarily causes you to face your own demons and weaknesses. It ultimately causes you to acknowledge your own vices and fears. In short: It makes you pause and forces you to ponder your own life-choices! And this is nothing but awesome! XD”I want to be good. I can’t bear the idea of my soul being hideous.” ”He felt that the time had really come for making his choice. Or had his choice already been made? Yes, life had decided that for him – life, and his own infinite curiosity about life. Eternal youth, infinite passion, pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins – he was to have all these things. The portrait was to bear the burden of his shame: that was all.””I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them and to dominate them.” ”He was prisoned in thought. Memory, like a horrible malady, was eating his soul away.”Lord Henry:”You seem to forget that I am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. I never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing.” Ahh Lord Henry! How much I love that bastard! *lol* He’s quite literally the devil in this book. He’s the person that stirrs Dorian’s soul! He’s the man who leads him down that dark road and just like Dorian he is completely oblivious to the magnitude of his influence! Yes, he knows that he’s corrupting Dorian, he even finds pleasure and joy in it, but throughout the entire book he never truly realizes how much his words actually changed him! How much damage they did to his soul! Lord Henry is the kind of character you just got to love. Arrogant, intelligent, wise, self-confident, brutally honest and completely unapologetic about his inappropriate behaviour. It’s no wonder Dorian is so fascinated by him and isn’t only willing but also eager to spend his time in his company. Lord Henry is basically the embodiment of temptation and young and innocent Dorian wants to be seduced! And honestly, who wouldn’t be drawn towards a character like Lord Henry? I swear he says the wisest things and vocalizes the most accurate statements regarding society! He’s exactly the kind of devil you’d love to have on your shoulder! Plus there’s so much truth in his words that it hurts! XD”I make a great difference between people. I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good intellects. A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies.””I like persons better than principles, and I like persons with no principles better than anything else in the world.” ”We are punished for our refusals. Every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind, and poisons us. The body sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of purification. Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret. The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it.” Basil Hallward:”When I like people immensely I never tell their names to anyone. It is like surrendering a part of them. I have grown to love secrecy.” If Lord Henry is the devil on Dorian’s shoulder then Basil certainly is the angel that sits on his other side. The painter functions as Dorian’s consciousness and as long as they know each other he always appeals to his good side and tries his best to sway him on a righteous path. He’s clearly the counterweight to Lord Henry’s corruption, but unfortunately he doesn’t have a lot of leverage. Well, at least not as much as Harry does! I mean the saying: “Come to the dark side, we got cookies” exists for a reason, right? ;-P In the end Dorian can’t stand his bad conscience any longer and does the only thing that’s seemingly able to liberate him. He kills Basil in order to silence his remorse and regrets, but what he didn’t expect is that this dark deed makes him feel even more tainted and guilty. So in the end Basil’s death only increased his sense of guilt and caused him to feel even more haunted. In my opinion the murder of Basil is the final nail in Dorian’s coffin and from that moment on he couldn’t be saved anymore. ”You were the most unspoiled creature in the whole world. Now, I don’t know what has come over you. You talk as if you had no heart, no pity in you.” The relationships:Dorian Gray & Basil Hallward:”He won’t like you the better for keeping your promises. He always breaks his own. I beg you not to go.” Dorian Gray laughed and shook his head.“I entreat you.”The lad hesitated, and looked over at Lord Henry, who was watching them from the tea-table with an amused smile.“I must go, Basil,” he answered.And this is the key moment! The very first time Dorian Gray finds himself at a crossroads and choses the wrong path. You gotta love Oscar Wilde for the subtle intensity of this scene! There’s nothing extraordinary or special about it, yet it’s still the first choice that leads Dorian down his dark descent. It’s unagitated, ordinary and so very powerful! It’s obvious Basil loved Dorian and when I talk about love here, I’m talking about true love and not just friendship. He’s infatuated with him and basically worships the young and innocent Dorian. After he realises what Dorian has become, it’s already too late for him though. Poor Basil, if he would have known what his picture would make of Dorian, if he would have known how much Lord Henry’s negative influence would change his innocent and pure friend…. ”One has a right to judge of a man by the effect he has over his friends. Yours seem to lose all sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You have filled them with a madness for pleasure. They have gone down into the depths. You led them there.” ”There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. You were to me such an ideal as I shall never meet again. This is the face of a satyr.”“It is the face of my soul.”“Christ! what a thing I must have worshipped! It has the eyes of a devil.”“Each of us has Heaven and Hell in him, Basil,” cried Dorian, with a wild gesture of despair.Dorian Gray & Lord Henry:”Words! Mere words! How terrible they were! How clear, and vivid and cruel! One could not escape from them. And yet what a subtle magic there was in them!”Okay, and here comes the moment when I say that Lord Henry and Dorian Gray are in love with each other. *lol* It’s so freaking obvious!! They are fascinated by each other, they are besotted with each other and they want to spend every free moment in each other’s company! So yeah, there’s that! I think their dynamic and their interactions are very interesting and to me it seems like Lord Henry is some sort of catalyst. He’s the impulse that changes Dorian’s soul, he’s the first person who opens Dorian’s eyes and tells him that he’s beautiful. Oscar Wilde uses him as his tool to initiate Dorian’s monumental change. Which is kind of interesting, if you consider that Oscar Wilde was gay. It feels like Dorian’s and Henry’s relationship is wrong and I’m not even sure if Wilde was aware of that? I mean yes, their friendship led Dorian into the abyss of his soul, which is pretty obvious if you ask me, but there’s some subtle note about their “relationship”. It’s like deep down Oscar Wilde thought that it was wrong to have intense feelings for another man. And if you consider the time in which this was written it’s not surprising that he might have felt that way. Lord Henry represents Oscar’s sins and vices and it becomes quite apparent that some small part of him might have bemoaned his sexual orientation. In contrast to Wilde no one holds Dorian Gray to account though. He gets away with all of his sins and in the end this eventually causes him to destroys himself! What a moral punchline! XD”Talking to him was like playing upon an exquisite violin. He answered to every touch and thrill of the bow…””Yes,” continued Lord Henry, “that is one of the great secrets of life – to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul. You are a wonderful creation. You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know.””The moment I met you I saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are, of what you really might be. There was so much in you that charmed me that I felt I must tell you something about yourself. I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted."You know how a voice can stir one. Your voice and the voice of Sibyl Vane are two things that I shall never forget. When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different. I don't know which to follow."”The soul is a terrible reality. It can be bought, and sold, and bartered away. It can be poisoned, or made perfect. There is a soul in each one of us. I know it.”Conclusion:This book is a gem! It’s perfection and so quotable that I could probably highlight each and every single passage! No matter how often I read it, there is always something new I didn’t notice before! I still wonder and guess about certain characters and “The Picture of Dorian Gray” still causes me to think. The writing style is so beautiful I can’t help but fall in love with it. I fall in love with this book over and over again. Every time I read it I love it even more and I’m sure that I will adore this masterpiece until I’m wrinkled and old. Oscar Wilde drags us into the dark depths of the human soul, and once you get there you don’t want to return to the surface anymore.P.E.R.F.E.C.T.I.O.N!That’s what this book is. <333
847384954	So I read all of Wilde's plays a couple of years ago but for some reason I never read this at the time. This is probably the number one most requested book for me to read. So I read it. Are ya happy now!? ARE YA!?I really rather enjoyed this. Well, obviously. I mean, did you honestly think I wasn't going to like The Picture of Dorian Gray? It's by Oscar Wilde for fuck's sake. His prose is like spilled honey flowing across a wooden table and waterfalling onto the floor beneath. The viscous liquid flowing slowly over the edge. His plot, perfectly paced, moves slowly as we wade deeper and deeper into Dorian Gray's maniacal life. Over the edge we go as everything goes wrong, there's death, there's pain, there's long conversations about art. We hit the floor as we finish and we see nothing but sweetness amassing around us as we escape from Wilde's prose. Putting the book down you see the light has hit the stream and it glows and it shines and it sparkles and you stand there mesmorised by what you're witnessing and you put the book back on your shelf and feel sorry for the book you read next. So, yeah, it's good.
1566594095	بسهولة شديدة يستحيل البياض سواد لكن كم هو صعب إعادة البياض لقلب اسود مختوم بالمعاصي..مفتون بالاثام..كقلبك يا دوريان♥هذا وجهه سمح و ملامحه وضاءة تشع نور و هذا وجهه فظ غليظ خشن حجب نورههل وجوهنا تحمل اثامنا؟هل تجاعيدنا =خطايانا بالطبع لا☆ و الا لما كان في اللغة تعبيرات مثل و أسفر عن وجهه. .او اماط اللثام عن ملامحه الحقة.. فالشيطان جميل دوما هل تعبر ملامحنا عن صفاتنا ؟ بمرور الزمن..نعم..لهذا كلنا نخاف مرور الزمن..و بصماته التي يتركها حول العيون المبتسمة دوما..او الجباه العابسةللابد لكن تظل العيون مرآة الروح..فقط لمن أجاد قراءتهاهناك من يلبس قناعه فور استيقاظه و يجيد إخفاء وجهه الحقيقي لسنواتو هناك من يضع جرائمه و جحوده و سفالاته في دولاب مغلق..و لكن لابد و سيأتي يوم و يتم فتحه..فهل سيتحمل ما سيراه؟؟ قرأتها في سن 18 وظل الجدل الذي اثارته في نفسي حاضرا حتى راجعتها في سن 30من الكلاسيكيات الواجب قراءتها في سن مبكرة. .في سن الجمال والشباب..و من افضل مائة رواية باللغة الإنجليزية لا يخطر على بالك للحظة واحدة ان كلنا دوريان جراي..ابدا ..نعم كل منا لديه دولابه المغلق على ما ستره الله عليه ..لكننا نحمل اخطاءنا في قلوبنا و عقولنا..لا مهرب في وجود الضميرانا اختلف مع اوسكاروايلد في حياته ومبادئه واسلوبه بل وكثير من اعماله ولكن مع دوريان الامر يختلف.. فهي مرآة جيدة لنقاط ضعف هامة بالنفس البشرية..ولم تكن لتحوز هذا القدر من الاهتمام لوكانت بطلتها إمرأة
2953143686	I should probably admit that most of what I thought I knew about Dorian Gray came from pop culture references. In my defense, I'm actively trying to branch out and read more than comics and trashy romance novels, but it's slow going and I've got a lot of catching up to do.Shockingly, I didn't bother to read the blurb, and it turns out this was a bit more complex than I thought it would be.Point is, I had no idea it was about gay dudes!And I'm always thinking that the guys in classic novels seem kinda gay, but then everyone tells me no, men were just more sensitive back then, and I just sorta pretend to believe them and we all go on about our day.But there's no way that's the case here.Anyway, I said that to say this: this book was waaaay more interesting than I thought it was going to be when I first decided to read it.I mean, having to hide that you're in love with someone is awful no matter what the reason, but potentially getting tossed in the clink and having your life ruined because people think it's wrong is a whole other level of horrible.Poor Basil! My heart just went out to that guy! He was so decent and so sweet. And yet somehow his love for Dorian, so pure it created a painting that seemed to capture the essence of Dorian's soul, became twisted by Lord Henry's influencing Dorian to desire youth and beauty above all else.Enter the wacky Crayola curse!And the really sad thing was that Dorian wasn't evil in the beginning. Selfish and silly, yes. But not truly bad. Which made watching him slip slowly at first, then eventually plunge headlong into villainy, even more tragic. The longer you live the easier it is to see what a slippery slope life can be, and how one bad choice left uncorrected can lead to far worse things.The only one who escaped relatively unscathed was the instigator, Henry. And isn't that just the way it always goes?There's always that fucking asshole who sets shit into motion and then steps aside to watch everyone else flail around in the mess they've created.Albeit, this time around it was a bit of a supernatural mess...This is one of the few classics that I've found to be meaty, interesting, and still has characters that ring true.Loved it! This is the cover of the audiobook I listened to which was published by Author's Republic and narrated by John Gonzalez. <--if you see this version, swerve to avoid! I've had great luck in general with classic audiobooks, but this was the exception to the rule. It seemed to me as though the narrator almost stumbled over words sometimes, and beyond that, the reading was just sort of off.
4537336450	“I loved you because you were marvelous, because you had genius and intellect, because you realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the shadows of art.”- The Picture of Dorian Gray, Oscar WildeWow! This book can really mess with your head.Let’s start off by my confession. Most people won’t describe this book in these terms, but it’s my review, and this is my take….The Picture of Dorian Gray is about a young man named Dorian Gray. He is exquisitely good looking, and his friend, Basil Hallward, paints Dorian’s portrait. In walks, Lord Henry Wotton, Harry, who convinces Dorian that youth is everything, and Dorian wishes that his portrait would grow older while he could retain his youth.Lord Henry is an extreme narcissist, and his conversations with Dorian are riveting. There are so many quotable quotes, and the discussion of his philosophy is highly intriguing. He essentially views anything honorable as horrible and boring. Although the book is The Picture of Dorian Gray, the book really belongs to Lord Henry. He is far from a perfect character, but he is definitely not boring.Tip: Audible has a version of this for free!2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango
613956896	"A face without a heart", so said Shakespeare in Hamlet, but it applies to the portrait of Dorian Gray even better.... When the young gentleman Dorian Gray from a wealthy aristocratic family in Victorian England, has his picture completed something is missing, Basil Hallward, the painter senses it and insists that no one sees his greatest work, except a few people ... The witty Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian's soon to be best friend seems amused, a shy artist! All three are fascinated by the painting, discussing it at length in Mr. Hallward's house. The lord is a notorious man, with a well- deserved evil reputation, warned by many to stay away from him. Nevertheless Gray's a lonely orphan, needs excitement in his dreary life, Wotton tells Dorian to have fun while he is still young, it will not last long. Mr. Gray has good looks, and like a moth to a flame the boy can't resist. Dorian wishes that the portrait ages while he remains young, as time goes by, Dorian would give his soul for this, Lord Henry laughs at the oath, strangely his request is fulfilled shortly afterwards. Dorian meets a beautiful seventeen- year- old actress, both fall madly in love, later the nervous Sibyl Vane, gives a really bad performance in front of Gray , and his two friends, Wotton, Hallward, the young gentleman is crushed , and so disappointed he leaves her. Sibyl then kills herself, James her brother had pledged to destroy anyone who harms his sister, he will cause Mr. Gray much concern subsequently. The wicked lord tells the distraught youth to forget about it, "Eternal youth, infinite passion, pleasures subtle and secrets, wild joy and wilder sins". All this and only the picture to show its evil, a great bargain Dorian feels. Rumors abound about Dorian, they the people look at his face and see only purity, Gray continues his hedonistic life, murder , another suicide and a killing results ... In a locked, quiet, dark room upstairs at his home, where the curious Mr. Gray keeps the painting, it Grotesquely Changes, whenever more wickedness is committed by the owner. The ugly side of Dorian, only he sees... Later into the shadows , Dorian goes to get opium, he wants salvation through drugs, blackout his memories but gloom is everywhere, a thick atmosphere of foreboding, intense desperation and immense helplessness, prevails. Reaching for something, that will save his poor soul, make him feel worthwhile that life has some meaning, is all lost? A mournful torrent rushes Dorian forward always forward, into the abyss, the darkness, the endless unknown regions, next oblivion? The light is going out, Dorian must face his destiny, he couldn't escape himself ...
234147807	Even if we haven’t read the book everyone knows the plot. A painter paints a portrait of a beautiful young man. The portrait ages while he keeps his beauty. But the portrait also reflects his evil, not just aging, but turning eventually into a portrait of a devil. There are thousands of reviews so I’ll just copy the next paragraph from the GR book blurb: Written in his distinctively dazzling manner, Oscar Wilde’s story of a fashionable young man who sells his soul for eternal youth and beauty is the author’s most popular work. The tale of Dorian Gray’s moral disintegration caused a scandal when it ﬁrst appeared in 1890, but though Wilde was attacked for the novel’s corrupting inﬂuence, he responded that there is, in fact, “a terrible moral in Dorian Gray.”The various nuggets of philosophy and thoughts and acerbic wit that the author intersperses throughout are a pleasure to read. Just a few examples: On a painter’s reputation “…as soon as you have one, you seem to want to throw it away. It is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.” “The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world.” About a hostess introducing her guests: “She either explains them entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants to know.”“I make a great difference between people. I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good intellects.” “Words! Mirror words! How terrible they were! How clear, and vivid, and cruel!… Mere words! Was there anything so real as words?”“Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul.” [She] is so dreadfully dowdy that she reminded one of a badly bound hymn-book.” [of an uncommunicative old man] “…he had said everything that he had to say before he was 30.” “He was always late on principle, his principle being that punctuality is the thief of time.” “Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed.”“…his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we lived in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities…”Here are three vicious descriptions just going around a single dinner table:A woman with “…the remains of a really remarkable ugliness.”A man who is “…one of those middle-aged mediocrities so common in London clubs who have no enemies, but are thoroughly disliked by their friends…”A man who “…like so many of his class, was under the impression that inordinate joviality can atone for an entire lack of ideas.”In his short life (1854-1900) Wilde was part of the movement called aestheticism – “art for art’s sake,” not for its deeper meanings. Wilde’s brief preface give us his ‘manifesto,’ bits of which are: “To reveal art and conceal the artist is art’s aim…Those who find beautiful meanings in beautiful things are the cultivated…There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written. That is all…All art is at once surface and symbol…It is the spectator, and not life, that art really mirrors…All art is quite useless.”I should also say that the edition I read, 2018 by Read Books Ltd., had two errors in dates on the cover blurb. Does it matter? Not really, but it makes you wonder what else is sloppy inside the text.Top image from wikipediaLondon street around 1900 from cloudfront.netThe author from thedailybeast.com
1335553337	ما هو أبشع كابوس تخيلته في حياتك؟ما الذي تراه أصعب شيء يمكن أن تتعرض لهماذا لو استطعت تجميع كل خطاياك و تخبئتها في مكان سري لا يعلمه ‏سواكماذا لو استطعت أن تنفض يدك عن أي جريمة ارتكبت‏وأي شر اقترفتماذا لو استطعت تحقيق المستحيلوضمنت الخلود..؟؟وماذا لو كان ذلك المكان السري هو وجهك الذي نحته فيلسوف فنان ‏على الورق..‏وماذا لو كان بإمكانك رؤية جميع مفاسدك تتجلى يوما بعد يوم على ‏وجهك الكامل الجمال في عيون الكلسواك..‏:::::::::::ما رأيك يا دوريان في قول المسيحماذا يستفيد الإنسان لو خسر روحه وربح العالم أجمع؟---------‎ ‎هذا هو ملخص الرواية في نظريالرواية المعتقة بالفلسفةوالسخريةوالفانتازيا‏ ‏ الرواية المدهشة والمخيفة وكاشفة خبايا النفس البشرية‏‎ ‎يعري فيها وايلد -لا النفس البشرية فقط بل المجتمع الإنكليزي بأكملهوزيف من كان يطلق عليهم الطبقات النبيلةإنها كاشفة لكلل ما هو خاوٍ بريقه خادع فور ما تقترب منه يتكشف لك الخواء والسطحية ‏والأنانية....والرواية تترك منبهرافمك مفتوح على أخره في شهقة لا صوت لها‎ ‎ :::::::::::ربما من أسباب عشقي لأوسكار وايلد هي قدرته الفذة على الخيالوقدرته على الإتيان بأفضل العبارات إدهاشافي عمقها وفلسفتها وسخريتهاأكثر بكثير في رأيي من شو أو مارك تويندوريان جراي كان العمل الأول الذي أقرؤه لهذا العقل اللامعومن يومها أدمنته
4676632968	Oscar Wilde tells us the story of Dorian Gray, who was obsessed with beauty and youth. His narcissistic obsession with beauty made him trade his soul for eternal youth. I think this is one of those few novels that was the topic of many Psychological studies. The morality aspect of this novel has been a topic of discussion for more than a century now. This is a book that the celebrities of our generation should undeniably read. It shows the plight of unnecessary obsession that will destroy our soul and conscience. The philosophy in this novel will make you contemplate for a long time. This is one of those novels that you should never miss. "Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul."
2526253425	‘behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic.’ and boy, this story was an exquisite tragedy. wilde admits that the books which the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame. and this is one of the most immoral books i have ever read.this is a story about the loss of innocence, of revelling in sin and debauchery, and everything in between. but its also an examination of the human soul, its struggle with vanity, and a life lived without any sort of accountability. and whilst dorian realised that physical beauty is finite, the beauty of this story is not. the complex characters, multifaceted plot, relevant messages, and elegant writing are what make this a powerful and timeless masterpiece. so i will take an immoral story over a moral one any day. because its the exquisite tragedies that prompt the best introspection and show us the most accurate picture of ourselves. ↠ 4.5 stars
2245036520	“Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will feel it terribly.” So, I wanted 2018 to be the year that I try to get back into classics! In the past, I’ve found some of them daunting to read, or just too boring to ever feel invested in. But I feel like The Picture of Dorian Gray was the perfect start.Beautiful art by saku-chann on TumblrI originally was going to give this three stars, because I enjoyed it enough, but was never too invested. I felt annoyed at how these characters were so obviously not straight. I mean, a vast majority of this book is about Dorian taking a wife. Meanwhile, every man in this book just has full page monologues telling Dorian how beautiful he is. And then I sat down to do my review, and I started doing my research. It’s no secret that Oscar Wilde was a gay man. Hell, he was even jailed for his sexuality, and died soon after from all the inhumane injuries he endured while in prison. All three major male character in this book read very… not straight. My friend, Destiny, told me that a lot of readers in the Horror circles make strong arguments that Dorian is in fact pansexual, which makes me happier than I can express with words. Yet, I can’t help but think about parallels with this book that Wilde crafted about “secret sin” and how it mirrored his life and perhaps his sexuality that he ultimately died for. You guys, I have no words. In the 1880s people thought homosexuality was some disease, something to be cured, something not okay to simply just be. Something that was a criminal act. Something that Oscar Wilde was jailed and forced to do hard labor for. And once you start seeing the similarities between Wilde’s life and the events that take place in this book, you will realize that like The Picture of Dorian Gray is so much more important that the surface value of just reading this story. Okay, I do suppose I should tell you about the story now. This is a tale that centers around three men that live in an upper-class London society: ➽ Basil Hallward - Artist who befriends Dorian because he is obsessed with his beauty and lives his life painting many portraits of him, but more importantly, he paints the portrait that this story surrounds. ➽ Lord Henry Wotton - Basil's friend, which is how he meets Dorian. Henry is a manipulator that heavily influences Dorian with his views about what is important in life. ➽ Dorian Gray - Our main character, who starts out so young, innocent, and impressionable. He later is harboring a major secret and will stop at nothing to hide this secret and the events that lead him to this secret. “There are only two kinds of people who are fascinating - people who know absolutely everything and people who know absolutely nothing.” In this book, the value of appearance is heavily touched upon. Youth and beauty seem to be everyone’s priority. It’s scary and sad how much this also mirrors 2018. There is also a huge discussion to be had about good versus evil and how we view that grey area in-between. Yet, these discussions are held in this seamlessly woven story. Overall, I really enjoyed it and it was able to evoke a lot of emotion from me. More importantly, I recommend you all to read My dear friend Navessa’s review, which ended up evoking even more emotion from me. She linked this article, which then made me weep. Again, this story is so much more than a paranormal painting, and a man trying to hide secrets. This is a masterpiece and my heart will forever break thinking about this story. Trigger/content warnings: death, murder, suicide, and a ton of misogynistic comments. Blog | Instagram | Youtube | Ko-fi | Spotify | TwitchBuddy read with Dani! ❤
2334725424	Forever young. I want to be forever young Warning, contains spoilers and bad anti aging tips that might ruin one's complexion Do you really want to live forever?Well, together with all the others, why not? Besides faith, similar weird pro death ideologies, and stuff, nobody wouldn´t like to live until whatever comes after this edition of the universe with the big freeze, rip, bang, or rebirth by a black hole. But it can also be quite Lonesome on the immortality frontFor instance, if all the others would still age while one stays young. From a sociopathic or dark empath perspective, this wouldn´t seem that bad. One should probably camouflage oneself with makeup to seemingly age, to not let others get too suspicious regarding bathing in the blood of virgins that wasn´t extracted by harmless and consensual blood donations, selling one's soul to the devil, and sacrificing humans to the flying spaghetti monster or whatever one is into fetishizing to get kinky style aroused. Without proper aging style, this could lead to Envious people ruining a show that could go on for a very long timeIf this would be the only front, it could be easy to handle. But of course, poor, weak ephemeral flesh embedded, human minds, souls, and other questionable and theoretical constructs, just can´t handle the pressure of seeing the manifestations of one's true age in a not so flattering painting. Then paranoia and other mental issues kick in and the whole thing tends to go Towards psychological gothic horrorThat combines the fear of death, evil forces, psychiatric disorders, and some historical fun facts about the society of the Victorian era. The snobby elites with all the decadence and superficiality are contrasted with Dorian slowly drifting towards insanity. While the aging Dandys (seemingly every age has to have a hilarious hipster equivalence for people addicted to manifesting their narcissistic personality disorders with second hand embarrassment creating styles) keep pimping hard, poor Dorian gets more and more problems with Handling his OCD tendency to take a short glimpseThat might be a breach of contract. And if already human lawyers are a pain in some body regions, imagine what a literally hellish contract may include. All in all, together it´s one of the best classic novels of all time, combining social satire with dark elements and the big questions of life and death and thereby immortalizing the ingenuity of Oscar Wilde.Tropes show how literature is conceptualized and created and which mixture of elements makes works and genres unique: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.ph...
498002522	I don't know what I was quite expecting here. It's a psychological horror story with a lot of comic relief, in the form of the endless witty paradoxes. After page 30 you are thinking that if Lord Henry makes just one more crack you're going to knock his monocle off his family crest and grind it underfoot. Oscar often clearly thinks he's being hilarious with his wit with a capital W – and maybe it's me, but Oscar Wilde often sounds like a parody of Oscar Wilde, like in the Monty Python sketchWHISTLER: Your Majesty is like a stream of bat's piss.(gasps) THE PRINCE OF WALES: What?WHISTLER: It was one of Wilde's.OSCAR WILDE: I, um, I, ah, I merely meant, Your Majesty, that, ah, you shine out like a shaft of gold when all around is dark.THE PRINCE OF WALES:Oh, ho-ho, very good.But of course, some of it is very good stuff :The one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. I never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing. When we meet we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces. The fact was, one of her married daughters had come up quite suddenly to stay with her, and to make matters worse, had actually brought her husband.One of those middle-aged mediocrities so common in London clubs who have no enemies but are thoroughly disliked by their friends.But his character Lord Henry goes on and on with the wit and the aphorismsShe is a peacock in everything but beauty…she tried to found a salon and only succeeded in opening a restaurant…. One can't stand other people having the same faults as ourselves. And you get a lot of guff about womenNo woman is a genius. Women are a decorative sex. They never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love her. As for conversation, there are only five women in London worth talking to, and two of these can't be admitted into decent society. (that last one reminds me of the weird quote from Captain Beefheart – "There are only forty people in the world and five of them are hamburgers". Oh, how rude of me – Oscar, allow me to introduce Captain Beefheart. Captain Beefheart, may I present Mr Oscar Wilde – I believe you may have heard the name.)Then there's the necessarily undeclared but pretty open gayness. How the two older men worship this young Adonis Dorian – they openly salivate! - and how he reciprocates too. He says to Lord Henry 30 minutes after meeting him :I feel I must come with you. Do let me. And you will promise to talk to me all the time? No one talks so wonderfully as you do.What a flirt. I don't think boys talk to each other like this anymore. They're a little more discreet these days.So as the story saunters along, and at a couple of points you think there never will be a story, the banter and the brittle conversations die away and Dorian, his portrait miraculously ageing instead of him, realises he can "sin" without consequence. He turns into a vicious voluptuary, a promiscuous profligate, an effulgent epicurean and a licentious libertine. In time the word gets round, and society reacts with the strongest possible disapproval :He was very nearly blackballed at a West End club… and it was said that on one occasion when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out.That would cut a fellow to the very quick, though, wouldn't it. What would be the modern equivalent? There isn't one. Both Dorian and the novel turn strange. You might think that the life of a young handsome sensualist would consist of orgies and opium, roofies and deflorations, and maybe a black mass thrown in for kicks, with goats and orphans, but you would be wrong. Dorian plunges into a life of strange obsessions – for ten pages we get elaborate lists of a) perfumes, b) jewels, c) tapestries, and d) world music – yes, that came as a surprise to me too :He used to give curious concerts in which mad gypsies tore wild music from little zithers or grave yellow-shawled Tunisians plucked at the strained strings of monstrous lutesSo WOMAD then.Dorian collects instruments like the furuparis, human bone flutes, sonorous green jaspers, the clarin, the teponazali, some yotl-bells and a Stratocaster made from the skulls of Tibetan lamas. No, I made up the last one. But this is a real quote : "he had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments". I was kind of disappointed. Is this really debauchery? I don't think Ozzy Osbourne would recognise it as such.With the change of gear in the book, we find that Oscar can come out with some quite extraordinary sentences. Here is a favourite :There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie.Oscar's solitary novel is a gothic tale of a man who came to think that he could commit sin without consequence. And he couldn't. It's either curiously conservative – God will smite you down, there's no escape, and nor should there be – or it's a coded message of revolution : the idle rich have got it coming to them. I think Oscar became a convert to some form of socialism round about the time he wrote his novel, so I'm going with the latter interpretation. It suits me. I think there are fifty shades of Dorian Gray even now cashing in their half million dollar bonuses and thinking that they'll be young and invulnerable forever. But vengeance will come like a thief in the night.
1617046799	I'll never forgive Oscar Wilde for the painful bore that was Chapter 11.
5608742247	Before you die, experience the love of a writer, poet or painter. If you're lucky enough to be an artist's muse, they will immortalize you. Find The picture of Dorian Gray on Amazon/Kindle/Audible 🤍***i'm totally not reading and listening to the audiobook at the same time because BEN BARNES is the narrator 🤭
3209570583	4.25
4888689741	My views about the story 😊Taking my poetic liberty :P It is,a story of gothic fiction,a story of avarice for eternal beauty and eternal youth,a story of how outside-influence, good or bad, can swerve the direction of an innocent-naive-life,a story of jealousy in love,a story of debauchery, narcissism and hedonism, a story of fight between appearance and reality,a story which edifies- to be accountable for your own choices, keeping all distractions at bay!a story of a yellow book and aestheticism,It is a story of a lovely, withering portrait, which finally re-gains the lost charm, after exterminating, the rapacity and evil! 😊################################################# Surface-level Plot Synopsis 😊- A painter, Basil, confides in his friend, Henry, about his, undying obsession and adulation , for his muse, Dorian. Dorian, a quintessence of youthful beauty, upon seeing his own portrait, falls into narcissism. Miraculously, his wish for eternal youth is granted- instead of Dorian, his portrait starts ageing, displaying cruelty, corruption, and bloating, but his own face stays young and innocent. Things never remain constant, and begin to fall apart. He hides the painting in an attic, to hide his own truth !!!!! In doing so, lot of devilish ghoulish things, come into play - manipulation, blackmail, murder, opium, suicide, revenge, and much more….. The Extended Plot summary 😊– The Picture Of Dorian Gray, is heavily magnificent on atmospheric-appeal and character-personification!The novel begins with a preface comprising of epigrams/aphorisms, from Oscar Wilde, on the purpose of art, and role of the artist, claiming all beauty is useless, and art is purposeless.“To reveal art and conceal the artist is art's aim”“There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written. “ (I personally found this dubious and debatable!)“All art is quite useless.”The novel opens with a heavy-atmospheric appeal , in the studio of the lamenting, reputable painter, Basil Hallward, who is working on finishing a portrait of “young man of extraordinary personal beauty” (Dorian Gray)- “The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn”.Henry Wotton, his friend, basking in the adulation of Basil for Dorian’s beauty, charm and grace, persuades Basil to meet Dorian.Basil, is overwhelmed with his muse (Dorian), both professionally and personally. Basil is simpleton, but jealous & protective for his love for his muse. On the other hand, Henry is extremely confident, rich, cynical, strongly opinionated, acerbic, astute, judgemental, with an admirable acumen for phrasing his philosophical opinions (which strongly influences the listener)!!!!! Lord Henry, it the star-champ of the story, and is the driver of the book, for what it is! With the attractive muse’s description and Henry’s opinions, the novel begins, foreshadowing, something ominous, in the future. ☹Upon constant persuasion, from Henry to meet Dorian, and to Basil’s chagrin, Dorian unexpectedly turns up. The jealous Basil, strictly instructs his voluble friend, to stay away from Dorian – "Dorian Gray is my dearest friend," he said. "He has a simple and a beautiful nature. Don't spoil him. Don't try to influence him. Your influence would be bad. The world is wide, and has many marvellous people in it. Don't take away from me the one person who gives to my art whatever charm it possesses: my life as an artist depends on him. Mind, Harry/Henry, I trust you."Upon witnessing, Dorian’s overflowing-beauty, Henry, starts panegyrizing, while Basil continues to paint, searing with jealousy. “All the candor of youth was there, as well as youth’s passionate purity”Finally, when the envious Basil, asks Henry to leave, while Dorian, already smitten with Henry’s charm and swept away with his subtle influence, insists him to stay back! (The venture of outside influence playing havoc and threading the ominous-devastating future, has begun!) . The young, naïve, immature, spoiled and sulky, Dorian, is an easy-bait for the cynical and headstrong Henry! On the revelation of Dorian’s troubled past, the strings-of-friendship between the two, grow stronger. Dorian confides in Henry, his love for the actress, Sibyl Vane, and finally gets engaged to her. With a strong influence of Henry hovering over him, he wants to impersonate Henry, and hence doesn’t want to marry the actress out of love, but with a selfish-motto of dominating, manipulating her life! (Henry’s influence has grown deep-roots in Dorian!)James Vane, the over-protective brother of Sibyl, doesn’t approve of Dorian for her sister, and threatens to kill him “like a dog” if he harms Sibyl. Basil, is deeply saddened, upon knowing Dorian’s engagement and the change in his demeanour and feelings. Meanwhile the high-spirited Dorian, coldly and cruelly, breaks off with Sibyl, when deeply-in-love Sibyl, loses focus and performs inferiorly in a play - “You have killed my love”. Post the breakup, Dorian, notices cruelty in the face of the portrait, while his own face remains pure and innocent! He finally manifests, the wish of leading a corrupt life, without his face showing any effects, while the portrait compensates for it, by showing all ugliness and ageing. ☹ With the selfish motto of protecting the painting, he wishes to patch-up with Sibyl, unaware, she has poisoned herself, due to the agony of the breakup. Dorian, starts avoiding the “the poisonous theories” of Lord Henry, aware of his devilish influence!Ruminating and repenting, noticing the ugly changes in the portrait, Dorian writes a long confession letter to Sibyl. But Henry informs her of her suicide, but Dorian remains unmoved with no-remorse, rather, is thrilled to realise that his first love-letter was addressed to a dead girl ! ALAS! How gross ☹It is explicitly made clear, that Dorian, is not at all repentant, not-penitent for all his sins. The caring, decent, simpleton, Basil, visits Dorian, to console him, but is gob-smacked seeing his indifference. Dorian, shows disinterest, that he doesn’t want to talk about the “horrid subjects”. Basil, outrightly, blames Henry for all the ghoulish changes in Dorian. ***(PLEASE SKIP READING THIS PART AND JUMP ONTO THE END, FOR AVOIDING SPOILERS!!)*** Dorian, goes onto hiding the painting and its changes, and is paranoid about his servant, Victor, who has seen the painting. Dorian receives an interesting, yellow-paper book, from Henry, which he just can’t put down ( just like, I wasn’t able to put down, this book :D ) Dorian has, already embarked on leading a double life, a life of paranoia, in which he is constantly hiding the painting, and on the other hand, living a life of vanity and sin! (view spoiler)[The story hops, 18 years forward, Dorian all under the influence of the yellow book, is a subject-of-gossip for people, the picture is all bloated, ugly and old, is over-obsessed with his looks, suffering with “mad hungers”, that become “more ravenous” as he feeds them!Young folks idolise him for his fashionable London lifestyle, his life itself is described as a work of art. Still fearing if his secret will be revealed in public, he is a prisoner of his passions and fears, and lives in captivity!Dorian’s friendship has proven detrimental for several young men, one commits suicide, another is forced to leave England with a “tarnished name”, a third one, finds a “dreadful end”, a fourth loses his career, while a fifth one, loses his social standing!Basil is petrified, on seeing a hideous face with an evil smile in his own painting, that he relished years ago. ☹Hoping to save Dorian’s soul, he persists him to repent and pray. Instead, Dorian, puts the blame for his destruction on the paitning and Basil, and with an “uncontrollable feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward”, stabs Basil, over and over , to death ☹Instead of feeling penitent, he tries covering up the sin, by taking his old friend, Alan Campbell’s help by blackmailing him. The two, take, Ffive hours to destroy the evidence(body), with a terrible obnoxious smell lingers in attic. Dorian, wanting to forget all he sins, goes to the opium den, where he bumps onto James Vane(brother of his ex-fiancée who had killed herself), who later in course of dramatic events, mistakenly gets shot-dead. Finally, six months later, Dorian ruminating and procrastinating, expresses the wish to change his behaviour, coz of the “too many dreadful things” in his life, to Henry, who is now divorced. The portrait looks even more evil now. Around the eyes there is “a look of cunning and in the mouth the curved wrinkle of the hypocrite”. Blood appears all over the painting.Deciding, to kill the past, and to come out clean, he grabs a knife and stabs the painting, hearing all the shrieks and screams, policemen are called, who discover an ugly, old man lying on the floor, while the painting now appears young and beautiful as ever!! (hide spoiler)]########################## Stars Distribution- There is a truck-load of tabbed quotes in this book, hand-picking few, wasn’t justified, so skipping sharing the quotes-part!I am docking 0.5 star, due to an innocent brutal murder by Dorian (not sharing name to avoid spoiler) ☹ (I wish if Oscar Wilde, could have skipped this brutality, there is already a lot in abundance)! Docking another 0.5 star, due to the ambivalence of one of the quotes by Oscar Wilde, in the preface, which makes me ambiguous, and perplexed! Famous authors are generally equivocal with their remarks, and the day I am able to decode the luminosity of the epigram, will add the missing 0.5 star! “There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written.”A well-deserving 4.0stars! 😊
3609165961	WARNING : This review is going to contain memes...I KNOW this is a classic and many people will be sensitive about this.Sooo if you are sensitive about someone making memes on your fav classic..I would NOT advise you to read further. I was gonna write a serious review BUT then I realized that it won't be MY review..I won't be able to express my feelings properly without memes and jokes. This is the way I write my reviews AND if you are not comfortable with it...Please don't read this review 😊 Cause I am in a reading slump after reading this book AND NOT in a mood to deal with people who will tell me that I have no taste in books OR that I am too dumb to not understand this masterpiece...OK??!!Let's begin this reviewFirst of all...Dorian was supposed to be a morally grey character rt??!! (No grey color pun intended )BUT to me he felt like a villain from a kids movie..you know the mustache-twirling kind *sighs*What I mean is that Dorian was supposed to be this complex character. I expected him to have many layers BUT his character felt flat imoIt's either that OR I have read soo many morally grey characters that make Dorian feel like a kid in comparisonI don't think I will compare him to Dr.Jekyll or Victor Frankenstein( He is my fav btw)I just felt neutral towards DorianCouldn't bring myself to care about himThen we have Lord Henry...Hmmm this misogynist person had a superior complexI was rolling my eyes at this dudeI have to admit that he did say some pretty good stuff most of the times..which had me thinking BUT it felt like he was trying too hard xDI think his wife left him because of his nonsense talk 🤭*whispers: Scandalous*And why the heck did this dude have such a chilled attitude ??!!I mean I get that he is a 'peer' and what not ...Sooo basically he has to look pretty and attend parties BUT this is how I imagined him😂No achievements at all xDHe's got NOT chills lmaoAnd then we have the "flowery writing" *takes a calming breath *Was it necessary to be THAT descriptive?? I think not!!Look I personally love purple prose in classics..it is one of the reasons why I read classicsThey help you create this image in your head of that era AND make you FEEL like you are a part of itBUT the writing felt forced imo Mr.Wilde could have convinced us of the situation in two or three sentences BUT bcoz he used an entire page to convince the same...it got repetitive AND I lost my interest This book would have worked better as a short storyNow the ending*groans *I expected to be at least stunned by the endingbut this was my expressionNow it had ME thinking if I was a horrible person😂Idk..I was like, "Meh.." *shrugs*What else do you expect from me??! This was Dorian my end of this bookAnd my response was...I think I probably made Dorain cry...*thinks if that makes her a bad person*Also, someone mind telling me what the heck happened with Alan Campbell??!I KNOW it's up to us to interpret BUT I am so confused!!Thats it..gonna end this review with another memeBuddy read with MohammedUpdate 1Just the book I am in mood for!!I just can't remember the last time I read a classic Goth book!!Me 24/7☝😂Just excited to start this book🤗Totally random BUT when 50 shades of Gray got famous...I thought it was the retelling of THIS book xDI couldn't be more wrong lolDear Oscar WildePlease don't come after my soul🥺😭🙏I was just an innocent soul back then!! I had NO idea what 50 shades was about !!Your novel was/is so famous!! I knew the name of THIS book & hence made the connectionI am so sorry for the comparison Yours sincerely, Mrinmayi
18428015	This is another of those books I’ve been meaning to read for ages and kept putting off. Although I’ve a particularly good reason for putting this one off, as a very good friend of mine, who died a couple of years ago, spoke to me about this book and I was worried that might make it hard to read for quite other reasons.He said that when he read this book as a young man it made him certain that he was not homosexual. Now, that in itself was enough to make me curious about the book. This is a book that could only have been written by a homosexual male and it is a book about homosexuality in very many ways. The obsession with youth and beauty is almost a cliché of homosexual obsessions – though the ‘dandy’, the vanity of men, is much more common now, I think. We are increasingly a culture obsessed with appearance. I wonder if reading the book and seeing this obsession was the thing that convinced my friend he was not homosexual, if that was the thing that made him say, ‘no, that’s not me’. Or rather if it was the expression of desire very early in the book for Dorian Gray by Basil, his painter and ardent admirer, that convinced him. Lord Harry is one of those talking desk calendars, in fact, other than Hamlet, I think it would be hard to find a book with more quotable quotes per page. Some of them are deliciously funny and others are just the sort of illumination that a match struck in a dark room makes. There were moments in this book, as there are in other works by Wilde, when one gets a feeling of premonition of his fate – it is hard to think of a sadder story than that of the last years of his life, or one that makes more plain how incredibly stupid are societies that punish people for their sexuality. There would be very little I could not forgive Wilde for, particularly after he wrote The Importance of Being Earnest – this book, his only novel, is nearly as good.Our sins are not quite displayed as clearly on our faces as is assumed here, but our lives do mark us – it is a pity that in our obsession with youth that we forget how beautiful our scars can be and that love, real love, the love that touches us most deeply, is when another accepts our scars and loves us for them, rather than in spite of them.One of the most quotable quotes in this book is an attack on realism in fiction – “That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature. The man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one. It is the only thing he is fit for.” I understand this is hardly a ‘realistic’ story – I mean, it is really a myth and takes liberties with ‘reality’ so as to comment on the world through the form of a myth – but like all such stories centred on something that is clearly ‘over-the-top’ it is contained in a shell that struck me as remarkably realistic. There was no time when I felt Wilde was calling a spade an implement for cultivation or some such silly phrase. His writing is always clear and to the point. The most ‘flowery’ language is perhaps when he is describing the perfumes Gray becomes fascinated in and seeks to understand ‘what there was in frankincense that made one mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one’s passions’, but even this is hardly as romantic or less real than TS Eliot’s (that most ‘modern’ of writers) “In vails of ivory and coloured glass / Unstoppered, lurked her strange synthetic perfumes,” Even at his most flowery, Wilde is hardly ‘unrealistic’.I came to this book expecting it to be much ‘sillier’ than it turned out to be. I’ve no idea why I thought this – perhaps because I knew that the central idea of the book was that a man has an odd relationship with a painting in that he stays young while the painting gets old. But the book wasn’t nearly as silly as I thought it would be. I really did enjoy it.
1874996276	(3.5) This reminded me of why I like classics. Some parts dragged on too long but I enjoyed it overall!
3004179425	This was just so... boring. I didn't care about anything that was happening at all. Shame on me I guess lol.
4528636808	I wanted to like this more than I did but I felt like it would have been a fantastic short story. Instead, it was filled with unnecessary description and dialogue (common for the time) to make it longer. The premise was unique, however, the characters were classist, sexist, and self-involved to a point of distraction. It dragged at times and struggled to get back on plot. However, that being said I enjoyed the idea of the story and would be interested in one of the many screen adapted versions.
1243847426	“Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.”I present to you: Oscar Wilde, master of adding gay undertones that are so obviously homoerotic that they cannot be called undertones anymore.Reading this book was long overdue. It's almost like a gay bible. What homosexual man does not want to stay forever young, with perfect skin, seductive lips and hair right out of a shampoo commercial. Just please do not take the murder part too literally. We might be overdramatic, but we're a peaceful community. Mostly.Jokes and clichés aside, The Picture of Dorian Gray was alluring - especially the writing. I could swear there is an almost scandalously beautiful rose bush just outside my window whose heavy odour fills the whole apartment. I can basically hear the bees sing an ode to it. The characters were intriguing and the moral downfall of Dorian Gray was most fascinating. There were a few moments that I didn't find too exciting, but I devoured the dialogues. I really wish there was some kind of BBC limited series of this. I'm not a fan of the Ben Barnes film, and if I remember correctly, it also wasn't exactly close to the book.Anyway, I'm glad that I have finally managed to read this. If you have always wanted to read a classic or two but were too intimated by old-fashioned and demanding writing, Dorian Gray is a good start.Find more of my books on Instagram
2899368207	Last year, I challenged myself to read one classic a month......And it pretty much took me all of last year to finish just this book...and Peter Pan - AKA the two shortest classics I have in my library. So there's that...Now lesser mortals might be embarrassed by this; but, thankfully, I am completely and utterly secure in the magnificence of my mediocrity...and so I shall merely endeavor another try. I'm sure the classic I select for 2020 (see how I've adjusted my standards and accepted that it might take ALL year to finish one book? #winning) will be epic and tedious AF scintillating on every level. But I digress.Even though it took the better part of a year to finish this thing, I did truly enjoy it. Wilde's witty repartee and commentary in regards to human nature was very thought provoking - and still very relevant today. More than ever, society is obsessed with youth and beauty and so much unnecessary bullshit, it's insane. I think I might actually re-read this sometime this year. Even if it does take 10 months...
3849708966	Another my all time favorite classic is great choice for my flashback Saturday reads!After finishing the story of Dorian Gray: Four words just appear on your head just like a light bulb’s going on: hedonism, shallowness, vanity, selfishness! I think it’s more than that: it’s too intense, sad also moving and horrifying story shows how far you go to preserve the infinite beauty. That’s the only quality Dorian has, only value he can define himself with! Dorian’s beauty can be raw, pure and true inspiration for the portraits: even though he already guaranteed to be immortal by being part of this passionate drawing which truly reflects his outer beauty and made Basil Hayward fall for him, he is so adamant to make bargain with the devil not to get aged as his reflection at the portrait gets older at each year. Incredibly witty dialogues dances with visionary world building, criticism of morality, casual cruelty! This book is real literature feast! There are tons of passages and quotes I adore. Here are my favorite ones: “I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.”“Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.”“There is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.”“Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic.”“What of Art?-It is a malady.--Love?-An Illusion.--Religion?-The fashionable substitute for Belief.--You are a sceptic.-Never! Scepticism is the beginning of Faith.--What are you?-To define is to limit.”“Humanity takes itself too seriously. It is the world's original sin. If the cave-man had known how to laugh, History would have been different.”“A man can be happy with any woman as long as he does not love her”“The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful.”“When a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband. When a man marries again, it is because he adored his first wife. Women try their luck; men risk theirs.”
6343239679	opowiesc o mlodym oraz wybitnie pieknym mezczyznie, ktory bedac portretowanym wymawia zyczenie- chce, by to na obrazie malowaly sie jego grzechy i starosc, by nic z tego nie dotknelo jego wlasnej twarzy. to meandry na temat ludzkiej proznosci, sensu piekna, i ,klasycznie- moranosci. wspaniale i kunsztownie wykreowany portret (sory xd) psychologiczny doriana greya, tak samo jak jego przemiana. styl pisania natomiast byl moze nawet nader kwiecisty, pelen metafor i ubarwien, co w pewnym momencie potrafilo mnie zmeczyc. chce tez zaznaczyc, iz ta recenzja nie jest w pelni obiektywna, ze wzgledu na moje umilowanie do konwersacji o moralnosci. z pewnoscia warto pochylic sie nad ta ksiazka!
6602426247	[5.0⭐] 𝙀𝙡 𝙧𝙚𝙩𝙧𝙖𝙩𝙤 𝙙𝙚 𝘿𝙤𝙧𝙞𝙖𝙣 𝙂𝙧𝙖𝙮 es una novela escrita por Oscar Wilde en 1890. La historia se centra en Dorian Gray, un joven apuesto que desea permanecer eternamente joven mientras su retrato envejece en su lugar. Bajo la influencia de Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian se entrega a una vida de placeres y excesos, sin preocuparse por las consecuencias morales de sus acciones. Mientras el protagonista permanece joven y hermoso, su retrato se vuelve cada vez más grotesco, reflejando su corrupción y decadencia interna. Es una novela que llevaba mucho tiempo entre mis pendientes, pero que finalmente terminé leyendo porque la elegí para mi examen de Narrativa Universal del Siglo XIX. Sabía que era una buena lectura; con el simple hecho de que el escritor sea Oscar Wilde, puedes estar seguro de que será un gran libro que te nutrirá el alma.Sin duda, la trama es original, asombrosa y muy interesante. Encuentro que ha sido una verdadera genialidad la creación de este elemento tan sobrenatural, el retrato, y admiro con todas mis fuerzas la mente de Wilde. Se nota que hay mucha filosofía hedonista y discursos sacados de la belleza en Platón y Aristóteles, algo que siempre se aprecia (aunque en algunos momentos eran tan extremos que caían en la comedia, así que las risas están aseguradas). Además, supo tejer a la perfección la trama para darnos varios giros y una gran progresión de la decadencia moral y psicológica del protagonista.Otra cosa que quiero destacar es la descripción tan detallada de Wilde: está llena de paisajes, naturaleza, historias personales de cada personaje, comidas y escenas de la vida cotidiana de la época. Como la mayoría de la historia se desarrolla en reuniones sociales de alta sociedad, podemos tener una gran precisión del lugar. Además, quiero decir que el final es SORPRENDENTE. Creo que es de los mejores finales que he leído en toda mi vida. Hasta el día de hoy (ya han pasado 4 días desde que terminé el libro) no he podido dejar de pensar en él. Es el mejor cierre de una historia y me encantaría poder olvidarme por completo de este libro para poder volver a leerlo y sentir la misma emoción de nuevo.Finalmente, puedo decir que 𝙀𝙡 𝙧𝙚𝙩𝙧𝙖𝙩𝙤 𝙙𝙚 𝘿𝙤𝙧𝙞𝙖𝙣 𝙂𝙧𝙖𝙮 es un libro que te marca por completo y del cual nunca podrás olvidarte gracias a la originalidad de la trama y a las críticas sociales que tiene (se presenta lo superficial que es la sociedad, en donde es más importante ser joven y bello que la moralidad). Considero que ha sido uno de los mejores libros que he leído a lo largo de mi vida y siento que es un clásico literario que merece seguir leyéndose hasta el fin de los tiempos.
6755216698	Oscar Wilde, in the preface of this long novel, basically warns: If you want to dig into the surface meaning, be prepared for the consequences; if you want to decode the symbolism, then brace yourself.Back in school, I used to analyze literary works - I loved guessing at meanings that had nothing to do with what the author actually intended. To me, reading was all about figuring out what the author really meant to say and digging into the cultural background of his time.Mybe Wilde himself wasn’t even sure what he was trying to express, but once words are out there, they no longer belong only to the author. If a book becomes a classic, and millions of people read it and find all sorts of resonances - right then, that book becomes a part of the world’s heritage.So, when you face a novel bursting with imagery and deep meaning, we end up arguing and guessing all the time. Sure, you might say we’re being a bit smug, but honestly, those debates are pretty awesome.For me, reading isn’t just about getting practical info - it’s also about the “useless” value of a book: what do you gain from it, how does it make you feel, what inspiration do you pick up, what words do you end up writing, and how does that spark a whole cycle of ideas that break free from the author, giving readers something to connect with and think about. As a reader, I’m simply recording my own feelings and thoughts. Who Wilde was in the first place? Not really important.Now, what about Dorian Gray?He’s this stunningly beautiful young man who can literally take your breath away with a single glance! And it’s exactly because he’s so beautiful - and so obsessed with that beauty - that he makes a fateful, irreversible mistake: he strikes a deal with the devil to keep his looks forever, while all his sins and corruption get dumped onto his portrait.In a nutshell, all I felt was “beauty.” What does that mean? Beautiful things just carry their own beauty, like the overwhelming feeling you get when you look up and see the endless, cascading sea. When you first experience beauty, you’re pure and unburdened by any ulterior motives; you don’t start scheming to keep it or wondering how it came about, and you definitely don’t question its deeper meaning - because beauty is just beautiful. Too many questions only make you forget the simple, pure beauty you experienced. That’s how I see beauty, and that’s what reading this movel left me with.The deeper reflections come from all those pesky, complicated questions. The stunning Dorian Gray eventually crosses moral lines in life; his soul gets swept up by desire, leading him to make wrong choices over and over, letting his portrait suffer in his place until even guilt and remorse vanish.At that point, beauty starts to feel connected to justice - or maybe it’s more like beauty and the soul are inseparable. I believe we should have faith in beauty and also trust the sense of justice in our hearts.Faith isn’t about chasing profits or changing with the tide of benefit - it goes way deeper than just the comfort of doing the right thing. It shows us the meaning and value of existence. In fact, when faith crumbles, life itself starts to feel absurd, and a change in one’s faith means a change in how they value themselves.When someone bases their beliefs on beauty and uses justice to measure their worth, they develop a deep love for all that is beautiful.We’re more than just cells; work is more than just making money; living isn’t only about reproduction; and love isn’t merely a collection of desires. As humans, we don’t want to admit that justice is nothing more than a tool for profit. We hope that our idea of justice can rise above a never-ending chase for self-interest.Fairy tales aren’t just for kids - they’re for anyone who still believes in the goodness of humanity and yearns for beauty. They help us escape the mundane, fight against life’s uncertainties, and try to make sense of everything - just like the absurd trials of Job, or, really, the absurdity in all our lives. Like that internet saying goes: “Happiness looks pretty much the same everywhere, but everyone’s suffering is unique.” And that’s the point behind Wilde’s famous line: “ ”We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.” 3.8 / 5 stars
6046860581	ﾟ.*ꕤ( 4.5 stars )⋆.ೃ࿔*:･ "each of us has heaven and hell in him, Basil." this was not just a book,this was an experience.‍I really really enjoyed this book, it was refreshing, different from my usual reads (in my classics era??) but I have to say that there are some parts that are slow and personally I had to stay concentrated to understand fully what was going on😗 definitely something I would't read before going to sleep, after a tiring day. Like imagine reading this quote when your eyes are about to close and your mind is directed to dreamland: “Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul.” I had to think twice what I was reading about and it wasn't even night, the classics effect✨okay or maybe I'm just dumbanywayy let's see what this book is about🤭ೀ⋆˚🖇️⊹⁀➷ plot this book follows an extremely handsome man called Dorian Gray, in 1800, and his transformation from a good and innocent person begins with Lord Henry's words and, as Dorian sees his own beauty in his self-portrait, made by Basil, an artist who is extremely passionate and fond of him, listening to Lord Henry's words, he starts believing that there is nothing better than pleasure and sin, and that youth and beauty are more important than anything else in the world. The Picture of Dorian Gray is a story about a person's growth and self-discovery, their beliefs and development. Dorian was so focused on the portrait and his beauty that he sold his soul for eternal youth ೀ⋆˚🖇️⊹⁀➷ characters Basil Hallwardhe is the artist who made the portrait for Dorian, a dear friend of him, a cutie patootie (also the only "normal" one 😭) he probably had the biggest crush on him. Basil was the only one who saw Dorian's great secret, the change in the painting. “Every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter.” ࣪Lord Henryomgg let's not talk about him, he's such a manipulative ass, and although almost everything he said was very quotable, the way he talked about women was a big no. No wonder his wife left him😔I partially blame him for Dorian's downfall, sometimes he gave valid advices but then again he said things that's quite...controversial. Let's meet him through some quotes: “Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.”“When we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy.”“Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic.” a very wise man, right? But then he says things like this: “She is very clever, too clever for a woman. She lacks the indefinable charm of weakness.”“A man can be happy with any woman as long as he does not love her.”“Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed." thank you sir, if men are like this, I'm never gonna get married 😍Dorian Grayhe was an icon, a vibe; until he did what he did to my bb Basil!! he was just trying to put some sense in that silly head of yours, you fool🙄 but other than that😌 I actually liked him, very much. He made some questionable decisions as he "aged", and became besties with lord Henry, but he felt like a real person, and that's partially why I gave such a high rating to this book, all the characters, with their flaws and imperfections, are so well-described, I'm impressed🥹 “I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.”“I am tired of myself tonight. I would like to be somebody else.” I watched a film based on this book and daaaamn, didn't disappoint at all🤭Ben Barnes represented Dorian Gray perfectly and his acting!! omgg, I'm in love😣💫 -ˋˏ✄┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈᠃ ⚘ pre-read ⚘ ᠃Someone said it's "the fruitiest classic masterpiece the world has ever witnessed" and I'm here for it💐 br with my friend angee 💐
2566899396	I really don't know why goodreads deleted the rating of my favourite book, but as it seems it happened?! O_oWTH? *lol* Well anyway, of course it's a five star, did you expect any different? XDI'll definitely reread it one day and will write a proper review, because this book deserves such an awesome in-depth review that 3.500 words certainly won't be enough! *lol*One day, this screen page is going to crack with my gushing.That's a promise! ;-P
1286504525	Un libro interesante. El contexto y la manera en que la historia es narrada es muy buena. Hubo algunas cosas en específico que no me gustaron: el cómo Dorian se enamora de Sibyl tan rápido. En un par de semanas ya estaba totalmente enloquecido por ella. Además, ella se enamoró perdidamente de él la primera vez que lo vio y todo era amor y felicidad muy rápidamente. En mi opinión algo más debió haber pasado ahí, en vez de hacer todo tan rápidamente. Tampoco me gustó que casi al final del libro, cuando James Vane encuentra a Dorian, de repente habían pasado 18 años. No creo que no haya pasado absolutamente nada en 18 años, quizás lo hubiera acortado a 5 o 10 años, era un tiempo más razonable. Lo que sí me gustó fue la caracterización de Henry, está bien narrada. También me gustó la historia en general; el mensaje que entrega Oscar Wilde: el miedo a envejecer, a la muerte y la presión (por parte de Dorian) de conservar su belleza física, y a la vez Wilde transmite que no todo es belleza física en la vida. Interesante libro, aunque con demasiada formalidad entre los personajes, lo que se entiende absolutamente teniendo en cuenta la época en la que se escribió.
3005671803	It’s difficult, these days, to come across a book with the right amount of drama while still holding on to philosophical discourse. The Picture of Dorian Gray delivers both. This book needs a highlighter on one hand and your thoughts on the other. Every other sentence is a quote to ponder.The Picture of Dorian Gray had me thinking long after I finished. It almost left me feeling depressed. I think in today’s world, there is much emphasis on image, at the cost of our souls slowly seeping into an artificial abyss. Yet somehow, we overlook this disease and keep up with appearances. “Nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.” When Dorian Gray arrives in London, he is innocent enough, trying to make life better. However, the masterfully crafted Lord Wotton draws Dorian into a world of deceit, desire, and unhinging power. When Dorian's friend paints a portrait, capturing the innocence and beauty of young Dorian, it is a shock. Dorian is so mesmerized by his image that he makes a deal to give up his soul so that he can remain young and beautiful. ‘Be careful what you wish for’ is the perfect euphemism to describe Dorian's life after his disillusioned wish. How far will he go to sell his soul? “What of Art?-It is a malady.--Love?-An Illusion.--Religion?-The fashionable substitute for Belief.--You are a skeptic.-Never! Skepticism is the beginning of Faith.--What are you?-To define is to limit.” This book made me think of the trillion-dollar beauty industry and the lengths we go to to remain young and beautiful. We can’t open social media without being bombarded with artificial imagery perpetuating the beauty myth. Is it worth it? When do we turn our cameras toward the beauty of the world? Instead, we focus on our image, carefully perfected with filters. I suppose Oscar Wilde was well aware that the humbling cure for vanity is age. Alas, the realities of the world.Everyone is desperate to be relevant, to be seen. When they are not... “There is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.” The Picture of Dorian Gray is a dark, tragic, epic classic with well-crafted writing! You can’t expect anything less from Oscar Wilde!5/5 stars.
651439456	"If it was I who was to be forever young and the picture that was to grow old! There is nothing in the world I would not give ... I would give my soul for that!"There are a handful of Victorian gothic horror novels where the basic premise is well-known even today, having spawned countless rewrites, dramatisations and imitations. "Frankenstein" is one, "The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde" is another, and The Picture of Dorian Gray makes a fine third. Few people do not know of the Faustian legend, where a man made a pact with the Devil, to exchange his very soul for unlimited knowledge and worldly pleasures. Variations on the theme persist, and this one has taken on a life of its own, sometimes surpassing the original. We learn with horror and fascination very early on, that a classically perfect, pure, unsullied and beautiful young man is willing to pay the ultimate price for eternal youth and beauty."Beauty is a form of genius - is higher than genius, as it need no explanation ... It makes princes of those who have it. Beauty is the wonder of wonders. Only shallow people do not judge by appearances."Written in 1890 by Oscar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray has in turn become a classic of Gothic horror. Yet it is a strange mixture of styles and themes, and in common with its author has had a troubled life, with regenerations. There are currently three versions extant. Which you choose to read, will probably depend partly on which you feel is closer to what the author finally decided was the best. But who is to know at this juncture? The tragedy of Oscar Wilde's sad and sorry life is well chronicled. Celebrated as a talented writer of witty social satires, his plays, redolent with scathing wit and social commentary, were in high demand, but the general public at the time were shocked by what they saw as the decadent lifestyle of this dandy. Hypocrisy was rife in the late Victorian Age, and society required its heroes to be above reproach. The themes in The Picture of Dorian Gray were thought to be morally ambiguous, shocking and distasteful, and its characters appeared to mirror the indulgent decadent lifestyle of the author himself. For a long time Oscar Wilde remained unrepentant, aggressively defending his novel. He apparently did not realise what grave danger he was in, at such a point in English culture and society, by being so open. Eventually he was famously tried for "gross indecency", during which many of the accusations directed to him were taken from the book, as if this was a catalogue of his lifestyle and views. He was sentenced to 2 years of hard labour, and when released he was a broken man, penniless and in poor health. His poem "The Ballad of Reading Gaol" was inspired by his harrowing experience, but he died just 3 years later in 1900, in Paris, where he had fled in disgrace.So what was the crime for which Victorian society demanded such a terrible penance? Was is it in fact his lifestyle? Or was it his writing? It appears to be both. And given the dissembling, hiding, evading and concealing of secrets he was increasingly having to do in order to survive, it becomes impossible for us to know his true intentions with this novel, even supposing they were clear to himself, and so impossible to say which is the best version to read.The first version can finally now be read under the title "The Picture of Dorian Gray: An Annotated, Uncensored Edition", published in 2012, over 120 years after it was submitted. It is a more explicit version, in particular, in its graphic homosexual content, and thought to be a veiled exploration of the author's own sexuality. The editor of "Lippincott's magazine" was horrified by such a daring, scandalous manuscript, fearing readers would find the original work "offensive". He edited it heavily before publishing it in 1890, until he made it "acceptable to the most fastidious taste". Oscar Wilde himself did not know of these changes until he saw his work in print. This recently published "Annotated, Uncensored Edition" was edited by Nicholas Frankel, who used the manuscript Wilde submitted to Lippincott's magazine in early 1890, restoring 500 deleted words, and including a further 3,000 of Oscar Wilde's handwritten annotations.With hindsight, we can see that the magazine's original editor knew his readership well. Even though he had removed so much of the material, the novel still caused a public outcry. It was condemned as being "vulgar", "unclean", "poisonous", "discreditable", and "a sham". It led to Wilde's wry philosophical comment, "Basil Hallward is what I think I am; Lord Henry what the world thinks me; Dorian what I would like to be - in other ages, perhaps"making it clear that he looked forward to a less repressive era than the Victorian one. The next version to consider is this version referred to; in actuality the first published version, but not the first version Oscar Wilde wrote. It has just 13 chapters, and is often published with footnotes, appendices and explanations of the differences and the novel's history. Sometimes this is the one which is included in anthologies along with some of Oscar Wilde's stories from his 3 volumes of short fiction, and selected poetry.The third and longest version consists of twenty chapters, and that is the one reviewed here. This book edition was published in 1891. In response to the critics, and the damning British press, Oscar Wilde had toned down the homoerotic elements and added a "Preface", consisting of a series of epigrams or statements, which became famous in its own right, as social and cultural criticism. With these aphorisms the author attempted to set down his views on the nature of Art and Beauty. But it is unclear whether he truly believed what he wrote here, or whether they are just yet more instances of his wit. So often they seem to be said for effect, as with much of his writing; or in this case, to answer and pacify the critics. But with some, such as,"There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written. That is all" and also,"Diversity of opinion about a work of art show that the work is new, complex and vital"he does not appear to be dissembling at all. His whole life and work seems to indicate that he really believes this, and almost seems to be making these maxims for his own writing. He is grappling toward his own theory of Aesthetics, and justifying his own attitudes to the critics.This version was extended, by adding 6 chapters making 20 chapters altogether, plus the author made many minor alterations, often just of odd words. The "extra" chapters are:3, 5, 15, 16, 17 and 18 All of them were designed to expand on the social background, as well as Dorian's ancestry and character, so that his eventual fall from grace would seem more powerful. A new character, James Vane, was introduced. Once this version has been read, he seems to be indispensable to the plot and impetus of the story. Not only does he foreshadow the most brutal of the protagonist's sins, but his honour and worth counterpoint all Dorian's hedonistic impulses. In the added later chapters, there is much ominous foreshadowing, the plot line escalating rapidly, providing a very tense and enjoyable read.The overall impression of this book, however, is that it is trying to achieve too many aims, and once the reader knows its history, the reason is clear. In some ways it seems to be a patchwork of styles, from which three distinct elements emerge.When the reader starts the book it is the powerful descriptive writing which impresses. It is possible to admire the beauty of the prose alone, without bothering too much about meanings, overt or hidden. It has been called a "manifesto" of hedonism, and certainly the early chapters have so many passages of beautiful description in Basil's garden - so much emphasis on the senses (even his name is both an aromatic and a flowering herb!) This culminates in chapter 11, which is full of dreamlike illusory beauty and evocative descriptive passages. The lengthy lists of beautiful objects d'art do however feel a little self-indulgent on the author's part, and a distraction from the thrust of the novel itself. It is a kind of a paean to Aesthetics, intended to convey Dorian's succumbing to hedonism. He explores a world of sensual beauty, with different aromas, jewellery, embroideries and types of music, as a result of reading the novel Lord Henry has given him, "Against Nature" by Joris-Karl Huysmans. This is an infamous "decadent" novel about an eccentric recluse who lives in his own virtually created world of Art. There are lengthy discussions on Art and Aesthetics too, where Oscar Wilde is clearly trying to get to grips with a theory of his own, through the debating characters of Basil and Lord Henry.The book also features many witty aphorisms. In the first chapter alone we have these bon mots by Lord Henry,"there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about and that is not being talked about""the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties""I can believe anything provided that it is quite incredible""a man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies" Lord Henry nearly always speaks in paradoxes, which is perhaps why people thought he was Oscar Wilde's depiction of himself. Interestingly, the reason for the humour in many of his aphorisms is that they are paraprosdokians, where the second part of the sentence is surprising or unexpected in a humorous way, making us reinterpret the first part.These early chapters with their streams of witty epigrams are very reminiscent of his plays. In fact it could almost be said that this would have made a better play than a novel. Lord Henry never misses a chance for a waspish, sharp, clever retort. The narrative in these conversations is very entertaining - it really sparkles in places. You may well feel that you have heard some of the epigrams before, in "The Importance of Being Earnest" for instance, and you would be right. Many of the most memorable lines from this, his only novel, ended up getting recycled in his plays.Then there is the moral compass, and a philosophical and spiritual discourse about the soul, and conscience. Much of this consists of debate between Lord Henry, Dorian and Basil, but feels to the reader very much as if Oscar Wilde is exploring and propounding his own views, trying to work towards and form his own thesis on ethics, spirituality, aesthetics, beauty and Art. These three distinct threads do not even touch on the area the book's reputation lies on, and that which film-makers want to point up - that of gothic horror. Of course, the story is irresistible. A young impressionable man sells his soul, goes from bad to worse, begins to grow corrupt and indulgent, turning into a voracious predator. (view spoiler)[He drives an innocent girl to suicide, taints the reputation of those around him, recklessly destroying lives without compunction, until he eventually murders his closest friend. Right until the final paragraph of the book, the contaminated, decaying painting is the reality, and the personal bodily appearance of Dorian is the illusion. (hide spoiler)] It is a chilling portrayal of double lives, secret vices and the depths to which man can sink. It is full of shocks and thrills, and even better, has a supernatural element. No wonder it captures the public's imagination so. But is it an enjoyable or relevant read today?This is a supremely moral work, a quirky moral fable. From a modern day point of view, when quotations from The Picture of Dorian Gray were apparently taken out of context during his trials, it seems tragic and ignorant. The character of Lord Henry, judged to be Oscar Wilde himself, speaks in paradoxes so much of the time. If one takes this as a prescription for living, then interpretation is impossible. You could make him mean anything you wanted to!Readers of the novel may be in a quandary as to who is the villain of the piece. Is it the scathing and sarcastic Lord Henry, who expresses a desire to own and mould Dorian, as he has others? When Dorian falls in love, Lord Henry takes the credit for having "created" him, despite his earlier protestations that," ... to influence a person is to give him one's own soul. ... He becomes an echo of someone else's music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him."He certainly seems an amoral character at best, supremely manipulative in choosing his latest victim to influence, an idle gentleman who has become a hedonist because he is so bored with life, a decadent aristocrat who encourages Dorian to experience any and everything, "Time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your roses.... The world belongs to you for a season ..."in a spirit of selfish hedonism and moral depravity. When they first meet, Dorian is twenty, young malleable and naive for his age, but under Lord Henry's influence he becomes narcissistic, with a dangerous sense of invulnerability. Lord Henry could be seen as the cynical, evil tempter, so if he represents the sinful side, perhaps Basil Hallward will be a good influence. He seems to be a straightforward, upright individual, indignantly expostulating to Lord Henry,"You never say a moral thing and you never do a wrong thing. Your cynicism is simply a pose." So how much responsibility does the artist have? In saying,"I couldn't be happy if I didn't see him every day. He is absolutely necessary to me ... He is all my art to me now,"it is clear that he idolises the young man Dorian, is all but obsessed by him. Basil believes that he has found his muse; someone who will elevate his painting so that his next painting will be a masterpiece. He too is essentially selfish. Is it any wonder that with such adoration and lavish flattery, Dorian is exhilarated by the sense of his own beauty, and would pledge anything in a desperate bid for eternal youth,"Youth! Youth! There is absolutely nothing in the world having but youth!"Yet the reader has a lingering doubt. Surely Lord Henry's cynical posturing, his scathing pointed barbs are put in to entertain the reader? They are surely not intended to be taken as a philosophy for life? And in creating Basil Hallward with his overblown prosy style, which is not in the least tempting to Dorian, the author has given us two ends of a spectrum, in their contrasting philosophies, their physical bearing, and in their manner. Another view is that Dorian himself is bad almost from the start. He has no strength of character, is shallow, very self-centred, empty and devoid of compassion. (view spoiler)[Unlike Sibyl, who loves him truly, Dorian cannot feel the depth of any emotion. She can no longer act the part of love on stage, yet this appearance is all in all to him. He cruelly rejects her and even after a turnaround yet again rationalises Sybil Vane's suicide to himself, and puts it out of his mind. (hide spoiler)] Any moral complexities are either beyond him or do not enter his thoughts. Yet no person is entirely another's puppet; we are all ultimately accountable for our own actions. It is difficult to fathom why the author has chosen to write a novel about conscience and degradation, about one man's struggle between aesthetics and morals, when he believes the subject to be irrelevant to Art. Isn't the entire work in contradiction of his statement that, "There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book"? This book has morality at its core. The message is clear. Appearances aren't everything, and eventually you can't avoid responsibility for your actions. Nowadays we are possibly more concerned with superficialities than at any other time in the past. Yes, the Victorian Age in England was full of hypocrisy, but now we have all the "gloss" and pretence of transparency. All is hype. Young people are valued for their artificial conformity to an idea of fashion and beauty. It seems ever more pertinent for today's youth, in today's celebrity and appearance-obsessed world.In much of this novel, the reader feels Oscar Wilde was dissembling to pacify the critics. They said that the work was decadent and contaminating, yet these are themes dealt with by the novel itself. Given the course of his life, perhaps we can never really know Oscar Wilde's true views on morality and Art. So many writers seem to have a different persona for their work, and in real life may have been rather hypocritical. Maybe this is a case where it is not surprising that we do not know and can never get a clear grip on "The Truth"? Or perhaps the real truth was that Oscar Wilde was exploring all areas of his own psyche, and that the characters of Lord Henry - the intellectual cynic, Basil - the artist concerned with aesthetics and beauty, Dorian - the narcissistic fantasist, and the painting itself - his conscience, all represent different aspects of what Oscar Wilde would have called his "soul"."To him, man was a being with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform creature that bore within itself strange legacies of thought and passion, and whose very flesh was tainted with the monstrous maladies of the dead.""Individualism has really the higher aim. Modern morality consists in accepting the standard of one's age. I consider that for any man of culture to accept the standard of his age is a form of the grossest immorality.""The aim of life is self-development. To realize one's nature perfectly - that is what each of us is here for."
2201790484	"Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic."Under the influence of a captivating aristocrat, Dorian Gray sells his soul in exchange for prolonged youth and vitality. Part of the deal is that a full-length portrait of Dorian will age and record his sins, whereas he remains unblemished.Picking one quote from this book was like being asked to read just one book for the rest of your life - nigh-on impossible. I hadn't even thought about how difficult it would be until Tes (instagram @paperbackbones) pointed this out and then I got sucked into a vortex of reading different Wilde quotes online... that man was a goddamn genius. This book has achieved a significant title in my reading life; the title of "Favourite Classic". It totally blew me away. To be honest, I only vaguely knew the storyline before picking this one up having encountered Dorian Gray in the TV show Penny Dreadful, but not the specific story that Wilde had created. I didn't think it would be so dark, so I was pleasantly surprised. The writing itself was just another level, quite possibly the most beautiful writing that I've had the pleasure of reading. As my buddy reader Abbie (instagram @ab_reads) and I discussed with each other, we quickly recognised so many quotes that are widely known and can easily be found on places like Pinterest.The three main characters are really interesting, it seems to be that Dorian Gray represents a "normal person," Lord Henry is the bad influence, and Basil is the voice of reason. Dorian Gray himself is incredibly intriguing, at the beginning he is presented as the perfect specimen, and he is vain, but this vanity is only worsened following conversations with Lord Henry wherein he reminds Dorian that his favourable characteristics won't last forever. He wishes that he could forever resemble the picture of youth that Basil has captured in his painting, which is where things begin to go downhill...Although Dorian is indeed captivating, I felt like a lot of my attention was actually placed on Lord Henry. He is the standout character from this story for me. His sass, his insights, his wit, his intelligence, it felt like Lord Henry was a representation of Oscar Wilde himself. And Dorian quickly falls under his spell. It's also interesting that although Lord Henry speaks of pursuing immoral behaviour, he himself never partakes in any. Perhaps towards the end of the book, he may lose some of his likability for other readers, but I still was a fan (I can't help but smile at his insights).I honestly could talk about this book forever and the different themes that are found within, but this is not school and I'm not trying to achieve extra credit, so I'll keep those thoughts to myself! Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed every page of this classic and I'm particularly thankful that my boyfriend bought this book for me, as otherwise I'm not sure I ever would have picked it up. And now he'll be smug *rolls eyes* But this gets all the stars!! I loved it!
4252750569	FOREVER YOUNG I WANT TO BE FOREVER YOUNG DO U REALLY WANT TO LIVE FOREVER FOREVER AND EVER
2983011574	One star because I loathed Dorian Gray and Henry what's-his-name. Morally-shady/immoral characters have never appealed to me, and whenever I encounter them they end up ruining the entire experience (a notable exception was Wuthering Heights). Sibyl Vane's narrative was boring and I do agree that she was shallow and quite idiotic...There was an entire chapter dedicated to describing Dorian's experimentation with jewelry and embroidery which was so completely mind-numbing I skipped it altogether. And by the last quarter or so I'd stopped reading and just skimmed the rest. I bet I would've enjoyed this more if I'd simply read the "notes on text" and saved myself a whole lot of ennui (a word Henry likes to use and which, unbeknownst to him, applies splendidly to almost everything he says).In addition, I do not understand the author's insistence that The Picture of Dorian Gray, or any work of art for that matter, ought to be assessed based on its artistic/aesthetic value and not on whether it carries a moral message, because I love it when the book I'm reading is trying to convey something...I actually feel that this book contains a moralistic idea: that one should never fully indulge one's whims and passions without considering their consequences, and that physical beauty means very little when you are an abhorrent human being on the inside. I would also condemn a work of art if I found it preaches, encourages, praises, or otherwise tries to present in a positive light, an action or an idea that I consider to be immoral. Obviously homosexuality does not belong in this category if that is what Wilde was trying to get around. Lastly, the ending was utterly unsatisfactory; (view spoiler)[I'd hoped that Dorian would be publicly hanged. This death was too merciful for his shallow, selfish, loathsome, and ugly self. Henry, the pretentious shit, should have gotten something too. (hide spoiler)]
4617451570	Damn all the other average and hyped thrillers. Just pick up this book for the spooky season! The beginning surprised me, the mid shook me and the ending got me like I just survived a horrible war. White turned black so fast yet it would make you feel like an artist blended it so well (damn the artist) that you actually thought it was meant to be. I knew I would like this book as I knew it would be gothic, dark and we would be dealing with a narcissist. However, I wasn’t expecting another narcissist who was worst than the narcissist we are obviously talking about. Believe me there’s always someone who inspires someone to become a narcissist. What I didn’t expect was the story becoming so bloody disturbing in the second half.You will see the transition of an innocent young man becoming a ruthless criminal. What’s so satisfying about this book is that he wouldn’t be able to escape from seeing all the ugliness of his crimes (physical or mental) on his own face. Literally. Just read this and don’t you dare Google the ending. You are not doing yourself a favour. Wait for it and get the satisfaction of feeling towards the end of the read that all the darkness would disappear like how a gruesome war is just ending and the world would be becoming brighter for sure.I just wish all narcissist burn in hell. Amen. Now going to dream a nightmare.
6284285585	There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful. -------------------------------------- “How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrible, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be older than this particular day of June.... If it were only the other way! If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old! For that—for that—I would give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for that!” Be careful what you wish for. Oscar Wilde - image from Wikipedia Man sells soul to the devil in return for…something, in this case a body encased in eternal youth, while a portrait takes on the outward manifestation of his aging and his sins. It ends badly, as deals with the devil usually do. This is hardly a unique tale. In fact, it is a bit of a trope, a Faustian bargain. There is a lovely listing here of examples new and old. Absent, of course, is the most famous, and least successful example of a soul-selling, really more of a soul-buying, from Matthew 4:1-11, when the devil made Jesus an offer he actually could refuse. Don Corleone would have been very disappointed. But it is a bit more complicated than that, as these things often are. It is always a challenge and an adventure to read a classic. Books become regarded as a base part of our culture for reasons. They can establish motifs, or ways of seeing the world that resonate with their contemporary audiences (well, not always) and future generations. They can offer us a portrait of a time and place, a culture, a class, a social or political issue. They can illuminate moral questions, deal in universal themes, offer insight into human motivation, whether individually or en masse. And we come to see them in particular ways. In The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, the prior re-pub in this Gravelight series, what one finds in the original is not quite what one might expect, given how popular culture has transformed the story by bleaching out important nuance. That is less the case with Dorian Gray, at least in part because there appears to have been fewer iterations of the tale in popular entertainments. But, nonetheless, our understanding of the story is generally of the bare bones sort. There is plenty of flesh to give those bones some added heft. Jeffrey Keeten - they came to take his furniture, but the only way they will take his books is from his cold dead hands - image from his siteThe history of a book matters. Keeten’s introduction offers an excellent take on how Dorian was received at publication. It generated quite a bit of attention on its release. There were many who were not amused. That may have contributed to the fact that The Picture of Dorian Gray is singular in being the sole novel published by Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde. The subject matter was considered a big no-no in 1890. The Dorian of the title is a man of many tastes, and apparently insatiable appetites. He manages to bring ruin to both men and women. It was not, in particular, the ruination of women that caused a storm. The periodical in which it was first published was withdrawn from bookshops due to the outrage.Wilde was a very popular writer of the time, wearing his sexuality like a badge. A tough stance to assume in a culture that preferred to sate it appetites and interests discretely. His novel was a shocker for the time in portraying homosexuality in interest, if hardly in action. The painter of Dorian’s portrait is clearly smitten with him, dazzled by his physical beauty, which he sees also as representative of an underlying perfection.For all the shock of its homosexual content, there is no physical contact of that sort in the pages. (an earlier version may have been more direct) All is insinuation, suggestion, hinting. It is the same technique that has worked quite well for ages in the horror genre. Shadows, rattling chains, creaky doors, unsourced moans. Sometimes we are offered the shocker scene in which the monster is revealed. The Opera Phantom’s mask is pulled off to reveal the horror of his face. Hyde’s deformity is revealed as the window into Jekyll’s soul. And so it is here. Dorian’s true nature is revealed. The “I’m shocked, shocked” reaction of contemporary critics suggests more about what they were projecting onto the novel than what was actually there. The portrait, used in the 1945 film by Ivan Le Lorraine Albright - image from WikipediaSo, what is the horror that is on display? It is the hedonism of the late 19th century English upper class, sashaying about in the interesting, entertaining, appealing drag of philosophy. Henry argues for the unashamedly sybaritic life. Art need have no meaning, no being other than itself. Apply to humans. Is art, is beauty the highest value? When beauty is left to dangle free, disconnected from any higher value, what is its impact on the world? Actions have no moral content. It is in fact a positive good to live a life dedicated to the primitive accumulation of sensation, through the arts, through physical pleasures, not just of sex, but of sight, smell, sound and touch, to experience beauty in all its forms. Try everything. Art for art’s sake in the guise of human experience. Some people have an amazing ability to come up with excuses for their excesses, explanations, some reason for why they shouldn’t be held accountable for their actions. Like the poor and taxes, we will always have the morally challenged, the malignant narcissists, the sociopaths with us. beauty is a form of genius—is higher, indeed, than genius, as it needs no explanation. It is of the great facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon. It cannot be questioned. It has its divine right of sovereignty. It makes princes of those who have it. You smile? Ah! when you have lost it you won’t smile.... People say sometimes that beauty is only superficial. That may be so, but at least it is not so superficial as thought is. To me, beauty is the wonder of wonders. It is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances. The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible.... But if this was on the up and up, there would have been no need to keep one’s behavior secret. It is clearly a place where freedom crosses the line into license. The practitioners of such a “philosophy” knew they were up to no good. They merely wanted to hide from the responsibility. Dr Jekyll was quite happy to have an alter-ego he could let loose on the world, to have the sorts of fun he could not have as himself in public view. They knew, not just that their behavior was wrong, not just that it ran afoul of extant mores, but that their reasoned explanation was taffeta thick. Hurd Hatfield as Dorian in the 1945 film - image from WikipediaIt is not the barely latent bisexuality of the novel that marks Dorian as fallen, it is that he had ruined peoples’ lives, men and women, not by having sex with them, (which is suggested, but never acted out on the pages) but by corrupting them in various ways, by causing them to become as self-centered, as pleasure-seeking as he was. A person can get away with this if he or she is wealthy enough. Paying off porn stars to keep quiet about an extramarital fling certainly fits into such a scenario. Dorian manages to keep his scandals at bay with the use of his wealth. It is as true today as it was when Wilde was writing this book, the selfishness, the hedonism, the amorality of the wealthy feeds on the blood and life forces of those they exploit, few of whom can afford to fight back directly. (You go, E. Jean!) I imagine this is a core of what Wilde was getting at, and the real reason his critics were so angry at him.Dorian does not come to his corruption unaided. He arrives as a beautiful young man, who is seen as being as pristine inside as he is on the surface. The Victorians were very concerned with exteriors, believing that they served as personal screens displaying to the world a person’s character. But then he is introduced to Lord Henry Wotton. Henry proceeds to emit a torrent of nonsense, albeit amusing nonsense, mocking the morals of the time. Wilde, speaking through Henry, is cattier than my living room when I shake a container of treats. Henry offers a torrent of false, cynical aphorisms, suitable material to be printed on small pieces of paper and tucked inside poisoned fortune cookies. Were he opining today, Henry would be posting outrageous clickbait opinions on Twitter. Here are a few examples. They are legion, and will sound familiar in tone to characters from Wilde’s 1895 theatrical triumph, The Importance of Being Earnest …beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins. Intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face. The moment one sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something horrid. …the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. I never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing. When we meet-we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together or go down to the Duke’s—we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces. …as for believing things, I can believe anything, provided that it is quite incredible. It is the cynical Henry who finds in the gullible Dorian the raw material with which to cast the young man into a representative of his very hedonistic view of life. Dorian offers the plasticity of the young to the dubious molding of the amoral. The young man is all ears. He even takes time away from the painter, Basil Hallward, to learn at Wotton’s feet. . To a large extent the lad was his own creation. He had made him premature. That was something. Ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its secrets, but to the few, to the elect, the mysteries of life were revealed before the veil was drawn away. Sometimes this was the effect of art, and chiefly of the art of literature, which dealt immediately with the passions and the intellect. But now and then a complex personality took the place and assumed the office of art, was indeed, in its way, a real work of art, life having its elaborate masterpieces, just as poetry has, or sculpture, or painting. We are offered a bit of background on Dorian, to help explain his vulnerability to Lord Henry’s dark influence. And are even given a bit of theatrical brimstone to explain how the deal with the devil is achieved. Neither really matters much.Angela Lansbury as Sibyl Vane in the 1945 film - image from Wikipedia Early on, Dorian is smitten with a beautiful young actress, Sibyl Vane, who considers him her Prince Charming. It is Sibyl’s appearance, her elevated acting performances, in addition to her beauty, that attracts Dorian. But when her dazzling talent on stage suddenly vanishes, she can no longer offer Dorian the thing he most admired, and he dumps her, cruelly. It is the first crime to which we are witness, the first time his painting changes. The pursuit of beauty and sensation above all else has claimed its first victim. There will be many more, but most of those bad behaviors take place off screen.Wilde put all of himself into this novel “Basil Hallward is what I think I am: Lord Henry is what the world thinks me: Dorian what I would like to be.” Unlike Lord Henry, and Basil Hallward, though, Wilde acted on his urges. Unlike Dorian, Wilde was imprisoned for his actions. Unlike Henry’s and Dorian’s depraved indifference to the harm they caused others, it is not clear that Wilde was a cruel person.Dorian is clearly a corrupt individual. Whether he arrived there unaided or had a push is of secondary importance. Lord Henry is clearly corrupt as well, even though we do not see him engage in any physical acts of treachery. Perhaps the corruption of youth, pulling Luke Dorian to the dark side is enough. Henry and Dorian both represent the worst of the amorality of the Victorian age, the hypocrisy of the upper class. This seems the true target of Wilde’s effort. He is not celebrating amorality, but pointing an accusing finger at it, and letting us know who are its most damaging practitioners. At one point Dorian even shows enough residual humanity to want to turn over a new leaf, not appreciating that to succeed he would need to upend an entire forest. (don’t write. I know that the leaf in question was supposed to mean a book page.) Keeten goes into some detail on the derivation of the name Dorian Gray. Why not Loki? There are reasons. In fact, there is a lot you will enjoy learning when you check out his introduction. It is rich with detail about the author, the book, and the controversy that surrounded its publication. It also looks at the lasting impact Wilde has had on modern culture. It will definitely increase your appreciation of this wonderful novel. I suppose there might be a modern version in which Gray and his portrait are linked by quantum entanglement, or one should be made if it does not already exist. The battle between inner self and outer manifestation is certainly an eternal literary theme.For the second time, a sojourn down the Gravelight illuminated alley of classic horror has proved stimulating and enlightening. From Keeten’s smart, incisive intro to the chance to see what the original of a household-name classic was really on about, The Picture of Dorian Gray offers a richly rewarding reading experience, clever, funny, dark, shocking, intelligent, satirical, and satisfying. There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful. Review posted - 02/23/24Publication date – 11/6/23I received copy of The Picture of Dorian Gray from Gravelight Press in return for a fair review. This review has been cross-posted on Coot’s Reviews=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to Keeten’s personal, FB, and Instagram pagesPrior reviews for books intro’d by J. Keeten----- Exhumed: 13 Tales Too Terrifying to Stay Dead – edited by David Yurkovich----- The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde – edited by David YurkovichItems of Interest-----Les Cent Nouvelles - a book of coarse French stories referenced in Chapter 4-----Margaret of Valois-----Manon Lescaut - an 18th C. novel in which young lovers live a life of sexual and social freedom, while giving morality little thought – referenced in chapter 4-----The St. James’s Gazette - referenced in chapter 10-----Elephantis - author of a sex manual in Classical Greece – noted in Chapter 11-----Against Nature by Joris-Karl Huysmans – cited in the introduction – Dorian’s reading of this 1884 celebration of sensory gluttony contributes to his corruption-----Wiki Deals with the devil in popular culture
3363200989	Lord Henry was one arrogant mf but God i love him
843534611	Perfect, exquisite, everything that was promised to you. This one has quite a high degree of FOLLOW THROUGH. "Gray" is majestic, about the superficial love for oneself. It poses many questions, & as a book of ideas, perhaps the most innovatory in the latter part of the 19th century of them all, it is exactly what a reader wants. Absolute flawlessness, like the young Dorian himself. It's ESSENTIAL. Indeed, at the pinnacle of Gay Lit. Comes to us in the rare tradition of too-good-to-be-trueness, actually-lives-up-to-the-hype literature canon.The dialogue is rife with quotable lines... indeed Wilde succeeds in wit-- more so in the existential/anarchistic/dandy lines which are pretty much music to the ear. The quaint descriptions themselves are embedded with sadness--the pace & the story... You really couldn't possibly ask for anything else.
3305299637	- صورة دوريان جراي، احدى كلاسيكيات الأدب الانجليزي واحدى الكلاسيكيات الانسانية من كاتب ساخر فذّ، قلّ نظيره."ليس بين الكتب كتب اخلاقية وكتب منافية للأخلاق فالكتب اما جميلة التأليف وإما رديئة" هذا من المقدمة، ونستطرد من المحاكمة "وان الأميين المتوحشين الذين يحملون وجهات نظر غبية جداً عن الفنون هم فقط من يحكم عليها بمثل هذه الأحكام"- يقول وايلد عن شخصيات الرواية انها ثالوث له: فبينما يشكل الرسام هالوورد حقيقته، يكون اللورد هنري الفكرة التي يظنها الناس عنه و دوريان جراي الشخصية التي اراد ان يكونها. ويبدو ان موت ما هو حقيقي وما هو متمنى لم يكن من قبيل الصدفة في الرواية!- ينسج اوسكار وايلد روايته بوحي من فاوست، لكنه يجعل الاتفاق مع الشيطان من غير قصد. ثم يقوم بجعل هذه الشخصيات تتحاور مع بعضها وتتطور زمنياً واضعاً لها نمطاً سردياً غارقاً في فلسفة الجمال والفن من اجل الفن.- الرواية تزخر بالنقد والهجاء فترى اللورد هنري يطالعك بآراء متناقضة وعديدة حول النساء والامريكيين والانجليز والزواج والانسانية والطبقات الاجتماعية ومفاهيم وجودية كالمتعة والخوف والحب والشباب والكهولة وغيرها الكثير، بالإضافة الى آراء عديدة عن الدين والروح والعشق...- بناء على هذا الهجاء كانت ثيمات الرواية تجول ما بين حب الذات والازدواجية في المعايير ووجهات النظر، وبين الانحلال الاخلاقي الذي يعصف في الطبقات "الارستقراطية". - الرواية تعبر ايضاً عن ثقافة الكاتب وهناك صفحات بكاملها عن انواع الاحجار الكريمة والقماش والعطر، وجولة على عدة أعمدة في الكتابة مثل شكسبير وموليير...- النهاية اتت كجواب على السؤال الذي طرحه اللورد على دوريان، مقتبساً من الإنجيل "ماذا ينفع الإنسان لو ربح العالم كله وخسر نفسه؟" - القصة ايضاً قد تكون اسست لقصص لاحقة، ولمست الكثير من "نرسيس وغولدموند" لهيرمان هيسة بين هذه الصفحات.- الترجمة ممتازة رغم الأخطاء المطبعية والإملائية المتعددة.
3206356199	“The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.”“The only way to get rid of temptation is to yield to it.” While I've known the story of Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray for a long time, I'm not sure I've actually read it before now. As such, I'd forgotten (if that's the right word) what a great character Sir Henry is in the book. He sets so much in motion, including being the catalyst for Dorian's wish to stay young and Dorian's subsequent slide into immorality. Yet, while everyone, including Dorian is ultimately harmed by Sir Henry's actions, Sir Henry remains unscathed. There are other great characters too. The Picture of Dorian Gray is a fabulous and engaging story!Not only is it beautifully written, the dialogue is sharp, witty and memorable. There are so many fabulous quotes, I wouldn't know where to begin, except...as an answer to my last review (Jon Meachum's The Soul of America) in which I felt Meachum was too optimistic: “The basis of optimism is sheer terror.” Maybe on that basis, I can be optimistic! 4.5 stars
2266685874	A wonderful book. Wilde was anything but subaltern.
213836667	The Picture of Dorian Gray could also be titled A Portrait of the Human Soul, for in his dark and tragic commentary Oscar Wilde spares no liberties in discussing morality, religion, society and the depths of the human condition. It is a deeply moving and inspired novel centering around the defining power of art. It is not an easy novel to read with its dark elements. For in paying heed to Dorian Gray's demise one is drawn into a reflection of their own spiritual condition.For those who have no idea what The Picture of Dorian Gray is about I shall endeavour to describe. As a novel I would class it among the classics of the Gothic tradition, a horror novel with a didactic aim. The story itself focuses around a young man, Dorian Gray, who through the influence of others around him becomes led into moral disillusionment. He becomes obsessed with a picture of his young, vibrant body that reflects his mortal perfection while at the same time living a decadent and corrupt lifestyle. By some unknown curse his image begins to grow old but he physically stays as young as ever. And all this leads to a fascinating climactic moment!The rest of this review has been moved to my website. To read the full review click on the linked text here!
1021965449	هي صورة الأحزانهي وجه بلا قلب هي صورة داخل كل منّا، صورة الروح أو صورة النفس أو أيًا ما كان يمكن أن تسميها.الصورة التي تعكس وجهنا الحقيقيّ الذي لا يعرف عنه الناس شيئًايسعى البعض للتفتيش عنها دائمًا، تفقدها بين حين وآخر والعناية بهاوالبعض الآخر يتركها، يحاول دفنها وردمها بعيدًا حتى يتراكم عليها العفن والأتربة.جميعنا يملك هذه الصورة، هذه المرآة؛ تمامًا كدوريان جرايالفارق الوحيد بيننا وبينه أنها كانت دائمًا أمامه، لا يحتاج للبحث والتفتيش عنها كما يفعل التقاة ومهما حاول دفنها وتدميرها والهرب منها كما يفعل الموتى الأحياء فإنها تظهر أمامه بكل وحشيتها وبشاعتها كصفعة قوية يرسلها القدر له علّه يستفيق. ماذا يستفيد الإنسان لو خسر روحه وربح العالم أجمع؟ احترام الآخرين؟ ولكن كيف سيجد في هذا العزاء إذا كان يعلم أن ما يحترمه الآخرين لأجله ليس له أي أساس من الصحة؟اللذة؟ كيف يستطيع أن يشعر بالنشوة والاستمتاع دون أن تقلق صورته هذه لحظات استمتاعه؟ كيف ستكون اللذة خالصة وروحه القبيحة تطارده؟ماذا يستفيد؟ أبدًا لنّ نعرف ولن نفهم هؤلاء. إن منشأ احترامنا للآخرين هو خوفنا من ألا يحترمنا الآخرون، وأساس التفاؤل هو فزعنا من الكوارث لا أكثر ولا أقل. منذ أن بدأت الرواية بفلسفة اللورد هنريّ وكنت أعلم أنني أمام رواية عميقة الأثركانت آراؤه غاية في التطرف، استمتع بقرائتها ومحاولة قياس مدى اتفاقي واختلافي معها دون أن أصل لقرار.فأنا وعقلي نستمتع بقرائتها ونستمتع بشخصية اللورد هنريّ المجنونة الغير مألوفة وطريقته الساخرة، لكن كلما تذكر تأثير هذه الأقوال في نفس دوريان جراي حين كانت براءة روحه كما براءة وجهه أشمئز.رغم أنه لا يمكن الجزم بأن هذه الآراء الفلسفية أو المتفلسفة هي ما غير تشكيل روح دوريان جراي، فهو بالتأكيد كان يملك عقل حين كان يستمع إليها.ولم تكن لتغيره بهذا الشكل إلا إذا كانت تجد صدى لها في نفسه. ما أشبه الخضوع لأفكار الغير بالعبودية، وما أشبه إخضاع الغير لأفكارنا بالاستعباد. إن التأثير في الغير يُكسب الإنسان إحساسًا بالقوة لا نظير له في الحياة!إن تأثيرك في شخص ما معناه أنك تسبغ روحك عليه، مما يملأ رأسه بأفكار ليست أفكاره ويملأ قلبه بعواطف ليست في طبعه ويجعل من رذاائله رذائل مستعارة من الغير، وبذلك يصبح صدي يرددّ ترنيمة رجل آخر، أو ممثلاً يلعب دورًا لم يُكتب له. إن غاية الحياة تقدم الذات وما خلق كل منا إلا لينميّ مَلكاته ويصون طبيعته على الوجه الأكمل. ولكن الناس هذه الأيام يخافون من أنفسهم، وينسون أن واجب الإنسان الأول هو واجبه نحو نفسه. ليست القراءة الأولى لأوسكار وايلد على ما أذكر، ورغم أنني لا أتذكر ماذا كانت القراءة الأولى لكن دوريان جراي ستبقى من الروايات الاستثنائية التي لا تستطيع نسيانها ولا نسيان تأثيرها.وأيضًا لن تستطيع نسيان نهايتها!كلما سأتذكرها حتمًا سأفتش عن صورتيّ...تمّت
5872933159	I vaguely remember reading this back in high school and to be honest, I don't know why it isn't on my list of favorite classics.. it's right in my wheelhouse. Probably slipped through the cracks or something. Anyway, this is a spectacular read. Gothic, dark- a disturbing portrait of an individual coming face to face with the reality of his soul.Great read on this gloomy, rainy, fall day. “𝙄 𝙙𝙤𝙣'𝙩 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙗𝙚 𝙖𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙢𝙚𝙧𝙘𝙮 𝙤𝙛 𝙢𝙮 𝙚𝙢𝙤𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣𝙨. 𝙄 𝙬𝙖𝙣𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙪𝙨𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢, 𝙩𝙤 𝙚𝙣𝙟𝙤𝙮 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢, 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙩𝙤 𝙙𝙤𝙢𝙞𝙣𝙖𝙩𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙢.”“𝘽𝙚𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙙 𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙮 𝙚𝙭𝙦𝙪𝙞𝙨𝙞𝙩𝙚 𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙚𝙭𝙞𝙨𝙩𝙚𝙙, 𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧𝙚 𝙬𝙖𝙨 𝙨𝙤𝙢𝙚𝙩𝙝𝙞𝙣𝙜 𝙩𝙧𝙖𝙜𝙞𝙘.”“𝙏𝙝𝙚 𝙗𝙤𝙤𝙠𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙 𝙘𝙖𝙡𝙡𝙨 𝙞𝙢𝙢𝙤𝙧𝙖𝙡 𝙖𝙧𝙚 𝙗𝙤𝙤𝙠𝙨 𝙩𝙝𝙖𝙩 𝙨𝙝𝙤𝙬 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙬𝙤𝙧𝙡𝙙 𝙞𝙩𝙨 𝙤𝙬𝙣 𝙨𝙝𝙖𝙢𝙚.” “𝙔𝙤𝙪 𝙬𝙞𝙡𝙡 𝙖𝙡𝙬𝙖𝙮𝙨 𝙗𝙚 𝙛𝙤𝙣𝙙 𝙤𝙛 𝙢𝙚. 𝙄 𝙧𝙚𝙥𝙧𝙚𝙨𝙚𝙣𝙩 𝙩𝙤 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙖𝙡𝙡 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙨𝙞𝙣𝙨 𝙮𝙤𝙪 𝙣𝙚𝙫𝙚𝙧 𝙝𝙖𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝙘𝙤𝙪𝙧𝙖𝙜𝙚 𝙩𝙤 𝙘𝙤𝙢𝙢𝙞𝙩.”
2903309243	Rating: 4.0/5.0Genre: Classic“Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed.” Synopsis:A beautiful young man named Dorian Gray has his portrait painted by a painter (Basil). What happens next is crazy. It is actually a wish that Dorian has thought in his mind. What happens if he remains young forever and the portrait ages instead? Well, this is what is going to happen. Many years later Gray will have the good and bad forces fighting inside him. Each trying to drag him to the other side.“Experience is merely the name men gave to their mistakes.” Book Structure:This beautiful Penguin English Library edition has 241 pages. The story is told from a third-person narration. There are twenty chapters in total. “The only way to get rid of temptation is to yield to it.” My Thoughts:It is a wicked story! As it says on the cover, this is a story of evil, debauchery, and scandal! The characters had depth to them even though it is not a long book. The dialogue between them was witty without going too overboard. This is the only full novel for Oscar Wilde and they say that some of the characters in the book were actually inspired by real persons. The painter Mr. Basil Hallward might be a painter called Frank Miles that Wilde met at Oxford and became a friend with. And through Miles, he met Lord Ronald Gower who possibly is Lord Henry in the story!“I am too fond of reading books to care to write them.” Reading this book sometimes you feel there is a discussion going on between the different characters that can be philosophical a bit. Those possibly could reflect Wilde's own view on subjects like marriage, love, and beauty. Through the middle of the story sometimes I felt that some of that dialogue was dragging the suspense of the story but still all that remained an interesting experience to read. “There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book.Books are well written, or badly written. That is all.” This is a beautifully written classic that should not be missed. It has the fight between the good and the bad, which is something we do fight every day within ourselves. I am giving The Picture of Dorian Gray 4.0 shinning stars out of 5.0
7980688679	A twink, whom apparently everyone and their mother is obsessed with, is forced to face his own mortality when someone paints a flattering portrait of him. This story is a criticism of society, the seductive nature of amorality, and the cultural worship of fleeting beauty, but that doesn’t mean it was especially fun to read — I hate to kick a man when he’s already down (Wilde’s been dead for a hundred and twenty-five years) but he could have used an editor to gently suggest that paragraphs be less than seventeen thousand words long. Obviously no one in this book is meant to be likable, which makes for a good parable but a less enjoyable read (there wasn’t a single character whose sudden, unexpected death I would have mourned (nor, indeed, did)). Which is the point, of course, but I can only observe dreadful people for so long before I get bored (this is also why I hated The Wolf of Wall Street). Anyway it’s a classic so definitely read it and, you know… heed its warning.
6144657326	Who would’ve guessed that classics were classics cause they were good? Mind blowing
1445247083	It's been close to 20 years since I read this and I enjoyed this more, maybe it's maturity, this time around. I upped the stars from 3 to 4 stars. I felt like Oscar Wilde is lambasting the upper class of British society, the gentlemen. He makes them into such idiots and they have the most ridiculous logic. Such as, a gentleman shouldn't need money. His class should be enough. To me if felt like Oscar was roasting this society and making them as ridiculous as possible.So much time is spent on beauty. Beauty is the centerpiece of the story. The whole book, beauty is lovely and it's own moral. When people are ugly and old, they are wicked. Oscar would fit right in with American culture of the 21st century. These old gentleman keep telling Dorian how wonderful he is as a person because he is so beautiful and he could never do evil. What I learned from watching TV, movies and real life celebrities, beauty can be genuine and good hearted, but most of the time beautiful people tend toward being cruel and heartless; okay amendment, at least the ones who long for fortune and fame. I have known plenty of beautiful people who were good hearted. I'm just trying to show the ridiculousness of this idea.This is a great gothic book and it has it's own chills and thrills. There is love, murder and the mystery that is Dorian Gray. Maybe, I need to go back and read some other books from my past and see how my views of them have changed. This was interesting.I do love read the wit of Oscar Wilde. I think he is talented and I will be finding more works of his to read.
2949506039	I'm not really sure if it is possible to add anything new and of value to this book, as it has been analysed down to the letter in the hundred+ years it has been published for, but I'll try. The themes in this book seem to be even more important today than its initial release, which is both terrifying and strangely comforting. It shows that no matter how far we progress as a society, we are fundamentally the same as a species. In a society that seems to value beauty and youth above all else, it is important to get some perspective on the possible repercussions. The story includes fantastical and dramatised elements, but instead of making it less grounded fanciful, it somehow adds to the realism. The Picture of Dorian Gray served as an important reminder to me to not get caught up in outward appearances and beauty, after all- you should not judge a book by its cover, and similarly a person's exterior does not necessarily reflect their character. While you may think you can see lines of sin in someone's face, many of the most corrupt figures concealed their transgressions behind a lovely smile *cough* Ted Bundy, Dorian Gray *cough*This is one of the most quotable books I have ever read, (my copy has more underlines and notes than actual words) and I found myself drawn to so many lines, at times after reading a particularly powerful and thought provoking passage I had to sit in silence and ponder life for a few minutes before I could continue. I feel as though I have only just begun to skim the surface of this book, and to truly understand its message I must reread it, probably multiple times. And I look forward to it. I am now completely devastated learning that this is Oscar Wilde's only full length novel, so if anyone has recommendations of any further reading of his, or a similar author please let me know!"Last couple of years have been a mad trip how'd you look so perfect?you must have some portraits in the attic."- Doom Days by Bastille ___________________________________What was this book?to define is to limit review to come when I can attempt to answer that question
6362713079	Un excellent classique que je ne connaissais pas. J’ai été envoûtée par la plume de l auteur. Ce roman est tellement d’actualité dans nos sociétés actuelles il y a tellement une course à la jeunesse éternelle. Est-ce qu’un joli minois cache une noirceur d’âme? Pourquoi pas 5 étoiles j’aurais aimé voir la descente aux enfers de Dorian j’aurais aimé que le livre soit plus long. Un petit bijou Si vous cherchez un bon classique foncez
3321912540	“There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book.Books are well written, or badly written. That is all.” - Oscar Wilde The Picture of Dorian Gray*Sits down at a chair and smiles charmingly as a painter works on his portrait.*Welcome everyone, to my 200th review! No, no. Enough of that. As a wise book once said, "I don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them." Be more vain, sneer a bit, no happy Kermit reactions here.So, let us begin again. Welcome dear readers to my 200th review. *Smirks* Ah, yes, that's much better. _______________________So, honestly this was a terrible book to pick for my 200th review. Not because I didn't like it, far, far from that. It's because I'm having a bit of trouble actually coming up with what to say about it. I mean, what is there to say? There is zero point in doing a plot description as even those who have not read the book could probably give a decent synopsis just because of how immensely popular it has been over the 100+ years since its publication. I could talk about how quotable and witty it is, but it was written by Oscar Wilde, so that really goes without saying. Should I mention the history of the novel and how it had to be edited because of the homoerotic aspects, but how even in its edited form it was still so abundant that it was used as evidence in Wilde's trial against him? Well, that is a pretty well known historic fact, so you probably knew that already. I could give a warning about chapter 11; how it is both the most fascinating and frustrating chapter in any book I've ever read. Wilde goes on at extreme length, seemingly showing off how knowledgeable he is on several subjects, and subtly showing Dorian's descent in to hedonism in the process and ending it with the brilliant line: "There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful."I could do that I guess, but what would I say about that line? Theoretically, I guess I could talk say that in context of the chapter, it is important to note that it is the closing line, and practically the exclamation point to all that came before. Prior to that we had a detailed (and I do mean detailed) description of Dorian's pursuits of art, literature, music, jewels, and embroideries (I may be forgetting some, there was a possible over abundance of details). It's monotonous, but that's kind of the point. His life has become a constant stream of entertainments and debauchery to the point where they have become uninteresting. Through his actions (and through Henry's borderline devil on your shoulder conscience suggestions) he has come to look upon these things AS a form of art. It has become his aesthetic (which is a fun play on the look of the picture changing along with his actions and philosophies). Thus, what society has deemed evil, would also be his idea of beauty. That one quote is pretty much the definitive sum up of what Dorian becomes. I think it also represents a fear of the aesthetics replacing morality, which is something Henry voices as a positive and which Wilde seems to be conflicted about throughout the book. It's interesting to note that Wilde said that "Basil Hallward is what I think I am; Lord Henry what the world thinks me; Dorian what I would like to be in other ages, perhaps." Given that if Henry represents something of an evil conscience (and ideals of aesthetics), Basil is certainly the good one, thought ironically he is also the creator of the portrait and the only "true artist" in the book. (view spoiler)[This is made more interesting by the fact that Dorian flat out stabs Basil to death. (hide spoiler)]*Shrug.*But that's just theoretical. Probably shouldn't even mention it... I guess I could make a joke about how there is only one thing in the world worse than talking about this book, and that is not talking about it.Oh! I could talk about the idea of the Mandela effect (shared false memory phenomenon) and point out that many people, myself included, were sure that the title of this book was "The Portrait of Dorian Gray," and that there was a bit of genuine shock when I discovered this was not the case (going so far as to look it up and see if it was retitled at some point)... but that would be a pointless digression and would most likely come off as padding to anyone not suffering from the same issue.*Sigh.*See, there's just nothing to say about this one. I guess I'll just go with a one sentence review, though I may as well not write a review at all. Tim's review: A rare 5/5 stars. ..............."All art is quite useless."- Oscar Wilde (who I like to think may have appreciated my little joke here as well).The Picture of Dorian Gray["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
170511777	صورة دوريان جراي لو طلب مني إعداد قائمة بأهم الكتب التي قرأتها في حياتي، ستكون رائعة أوسكار وايلد على رأس القائمة، ومهما صغرت قائمتي، ومهما تطايرت منها العناوين، ستبقى (صورة دوريان جراي) لأنها رواية عبقرية كتبها فنان عملاق. قرأت هذه الرواية في مراهقتي، نسخة مختصرة منها بالأصح وأبهرتني، أبهرتني فلسفتها، أبهرتني تحولاتها، وها أنا بعد أعوام طويلة أعود لأقرأ نسخة كاملة منها، ومع ذلك لا يتشتت الانبهار ولا يخفت جمال النص ولا قوته. دوريان جراي شاب وسيم، فاتن، بريء، يرسم له صديقه الفنان لوحة مذهلة، تلتقط تلك اللوحة بشكل ما روح دوريان، هكذا كل التغيرات التي ستجري عليه، كل القسوة، والوحشية، كل الفجور الذي سينغمس فيه لاحقاً، لن ينعكس على ملامحه البريئة الطفولية، سيحتفظ دوريان جراي بوجهه الطفولي، وحدها اللوحة التي سيخفيها دوريان في علية منزله عن الناس، وحدها اللوحة ستحمل خطاياه، وستذكره دائماً إلى أي درك وصل، سيحفر الزمن والفجور خطوطه على اللوحة، وسيبقى وجه دوريان صافياً، جميلاً، خادعاً. إلى جوار شخصية دوريان وقصته المذهلة، تبرز شخصية اللورد هنري ويتون، بفلسفته وذكائه وسخريته، تبدو لي شخصية هنري مجرد ستار لأوسكار وايلد، لقد كان هنري بكلامه وبكتاب ما أعاره لدوريان جراي أول معول هوى على براءة دوريان فحطمها، هكذا سيخوض دوريان جراي في العوالم السفلية، هكذا ستسوء سمعته وسيعرف في الأوساط الاجتماعية بأنه فاجر، وسيتحدث الكثيرون عنه، ولكن كل الأحاديث ستتبدد وتزول حالما تقع العيون عليه، كيف يصح أن يصدر كل ذلك الفجور، كيف يصح أن تنسب كل تلك الأفعال إلى هذا الطفل الغر؟! كيف تمضي الأعوام ولا يتغير شيء في دوريان جراي؟ يرقد الجواب في علية منزل دوريان، في لوحة مستورة، حيث صورة رجل عجوز فاجر، تحمل ملامحه كل آثامه. نهاية الرواية حكاية أخرى، يمكن لي تصنيفها كأحد أروع النهايات إطلاقاً، لا يوازيها في ذاكرتي إلا نهايتي (ابنة الحظ) لايزابيل الليندي و(لورد الذباب) لوليم غولدينغ.
5802854238	|| 4.0 stars ||This is most definitely the gayest book that was ever written in the nineteenth century, and I wholeheartedly love it for that. This book has the most fascinating yet despicable main characters, and I couldn’t help but be outraged and intrigued by everything about them.Henry is truly a manipulative narcissist, who seems to view himself as the wisest person alive and who takes a perverse pleasure from dominating and shaping other people with his mind. The way he views other people is terribly creepy and dismissive; he appears to look down on anyone and anything as he deems himself utterly superior. Yet, he still manages to charm everyone around him, and convince them that his word is truth. He is, without a doubt, a sociopath. At the start, I really couldn’t help but feel sad for Henry’s manipulations of the impressionable and naive Dorian. Even if Dorian was vain and egotistical, he wasn’t yet evil, and I feel like he could have been a happy and kind person if it weren’t for Henry’s influences. It was really quite the tragedy… After a while, though, I obviously lost more and more of my pity for Dorian as he slowly turned into a cruel monster. He grew to be completely apathetic and seemed to have no care or sympathy for anyone other than himself. The most likable character was definitely Basil. He was very pitiful and slightly pathetic, but he did have a very pure soul, and my heart broke a bit for how he lost the sweet boy Dorian once was to the horror Dorian later became. Basil’s love for him was so desperate and so painful: he worshipped Dorian, heart and soul. Even if Dorian was wholly undeserving of it, Basil’s deep love for him truly moved me.Overall, I really liked the writing of this book as it was beautiful and often insightful. However, there was one chapter, namely chapter 11, that was literally my worst nightmare: I don’t think I have ever encountered such mind-numbing rambling before in my life. Luckily, this was only once and the rest of the book was simply stunning, so I could forgive it.The main theme explored in this book is the nature of humanity in its most evil sense and it shows how deceptive beauty and innocence can be. It also tries to imagine what someone would turn into if they no longer had to answer for their sins: What would a person become when they could live a life without consequences for themselves? This book answers that question, and it’s definitely not pretty.In summary, this story, but mostly the characters, intrigued the hell out of me, and this book was genuinely so much more engaging than I thought it would be! Oscar Wilde books: The Happy Prince - 3.5 starsThe Picture of Dorian Gray - 4.0 stars
2848618972	Nie jestem fanką tego tłumaczenia. Czuję się jakby czegoś brakowało. I ocena 2019- 5/5II ocena 2021- 4/5
849387028	Upping my rating to 5 stars. What a powerful novel about choices and consequences! Written in 1890 by the brilliant Oscar Wilde, this novel follows the life and times of Dorian Gray. Dorian is a gorgeous blond 20 year old when he meets up with the painter Basil Hallward, who paints the ill-fated portrait of Dorian.Through Basil - who dotes on Dorian just a wee bit too much, though at least he has Dorian's best interests at heart - Dorian also meets the cynical Lord Henry Wotton ("rotten"?). Lord Henry, despite Basil's pleas, decides (just for the amusement of it, and apparently because Lord Henry loves to hear himself talk) to share his cynical epigrams - Wilde at his dark humorous best - and thoughts on the beauty of a hedonistic lifestyle with the innocent Dorian.Dorian is sucked in by Lord Henry's ideas, especially those in a nameless (critics point to À rebours) yellow book that Lord Henry shares with Dorian. Dorian may be innocent, but he’s rather shallow and vain. And so this:“How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrible, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be older than this particular day of June. . . . If it were only the other way! If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old! For that—for that—I would give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for that!”Dorian makes some fateful choices in his life — choices that lead him further and further down paths of evil, even though he keeps his youth and looks. And meanwhile Dorian's portrait (which he quickly hides away in a locked upstairs room) is showing all of the corruption and age that Dorian himself escapes ...This is a much more complex story than I would have guessed before reading it. The fall of Dorian is a gradual process. It’s jump-started by Lord Henry, who is terribly witty and demoralizing (in the truest sense of the word).“My dear boy, the people who love only once in their lives are really the shallow people. What they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, I call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination. Faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life of the intellect—simply a confession of failure.”But Henry is more talk than action, while Dorian eventually has to try everything, no matter the cost to others ... or himself. Dorian doesn’t just choose dissolution for himself; he pulls others along with him. A distressed friend tells him: “One has a right to judge of a man by the effect he has over his friends. Yours seem to lose all sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You have filled them with a madness for pleasure. They have gone down into the depths. You led them there.”
2045009744	Once again, I find myself not liking a classic. Is it me? Have I been spoiled by a hundred years of advancement in every area of life so that I am now unable to enjoy or even appreciate the "genius" of a time-tested author like Oscar Wilde? Apparently so, because, for the most part...Dorian Gray is the impossibly beautiful young man who becomes the subject of a portrait by the painter, Basil Hallward. When the artist, who has become infatuated with his model, introduces him to Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian is immediately seduced by Lord Henry's witty and corrupting devotion to hedonism. The center of the story is, quite literally, the picture of Dorian Gray, which Dorian soon discovers reflects the hideous corruption of his soul while his outward appearance (his youth and beauty) remains untarnished.While I love the premise of the story, it read like a psycotherapist's musings on society in general and a couple of the characters specifically, namely Dorian and Henry. And the musings went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, ad infinitum.And the worst thing, imho, was that there were several interesting things that happened — suicide, murder, debauchery, broken friendships, etc; however, we were never made privy to any of the details. These things were basically mentioned in passing. Again, maybe it's because of the period of time in which this book was written and those details would have prevented the book from even being published. I don't know. All I know is that my imagination is used for picturing people, places and things that are described. I don't want to have to imagine what happened as well.This rating is totally a reflection of my enjoyment of the book, not of the writing. I think it goes without saying that it is well-written. Maybe if I read it in 1890, I would have loved it. Probably. But it's 2017 and, for me, it was just too much philosophy and not enough content.
46027197	"My dear Jordan!" said Lord Rayner expansively, as the butler discreetly closed the door behind his young visitor. "Really, it is too good to see you again! And what brings you to Cambridge?""Oh, this and that," said the lad, flinging himself casually onto a priceless Ikea divan. "By the way, has there been some mistake in the casting? I thought I was female?""Well, since we're doing Dorian Gray, I hoped you would have no objection to reversing your gender," said his host. "And besides, is there anything quite as female as an attractive young man?""How could one disagree?" murmured the lad, as a becoming blush suffused his ivory cheek. "So, aren't you glad I persuaded you to read it?"The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
1959885453	(1)اللوحة : الـفـكرة تخرج من رأس صاحـبهـاتبهره تلك التفاصيل الدقيقة في هذا الـوجهالذي ينز طفولة ورقة وعـذوبة. هو مـشـروعناجح بالنسبة للرسام الذي ألتقط الـفـكرة ....قرأت هذا العمل في بريطانيا – لندن. ولمن يعرف تفاصيل العصر الفكتوري وماقبله وبعده بخمسين عام سيعرف أثر هذه الأجواء على قراءة أوسكار وايلد لنص يعود للقرن التاسع عشر ميلادي علمًا أن أوسكار هو أخر ما أنتجته الفترة الفكتورية ونهضتها الأدبية التي كانت ضمن سلسلة طويلة من الحـضارة كانت أوروبا قد برزت فيه بعد أن أفلت شمس العرب. كنت أتخيل كل شخصيات العمل أثناء قراءة الرواية. أتخيل "بازل / بازيل هولوورد" الرسام الذي هو عند أوسكار وايلد مكتشف الجمال الذي يمر بحياتنا دون أن نلتفت إليه حتى يخبرنا أحدهم أنه هو.. كنت أتخيل في أي لحظة الشر الذي يغلفه الجمال "دوريان قراي" الوسيم – حفيد كيلسو – يخرج في أي لحظة ممسك بقبضته عصاه النحيلة.. كنت أتخيل "اللورد هنري" وعنجهيته في إستخدام ثقافته على الناس ومعرفته بتاريخ المقربين من طبقته.. كنت أتخيل المارة من السيدات إيهن ستكون ضحية دوريان التالية، وأنا أنظر في المباني ذات الطراز المعماري الأوربي ومثلثات الأسطح والقرميد الأحمر حتى بقيت التفاصيل عالقة في ذاكرتي منذ (2009م) وبعد مشاهدة فيلم (بن بارنز، وكولين روث) الذي جعل الكثير يعودون للأصل - الرواية - عرفت أن الفيلم نجح لفنتازية النص. رغم أن قلة أحداث الرعب القوطي الذي لا يتجلى في غير بعض مشاهد القتل ونهاية الرواية التي وفّق أوسكار في إحكام خاتمتها بروعة.(2)الألوان : هاهي الآن تخـرج من كل عـبواتها يعصرها الرسام ويوزّعـهـا بإحـترافية عاليةحسب هذه التـقاسيم لهذا الـوجه القادم من الريف بعد أن سـحرته المدينة مثلما سحرتالرسام هذه الملامح الملائكية. تمتزج الألوان....عندما نويت قراءة العمل كنت أعلم أن قصته ستعجبني لمعرفتي بجوهر القصة دون التفاصيل وأنها لن تكون مثل رواية "ستوكر" الشهيرة، دراكولا، أوعمل ماري شيلي الشهير، فرانكشتاين وهما عملين بالمناسبة أعجبت بهما لكلاسيكتهما وجمال حبكتهما أكثر من القصة. بينما نص أوسكار ساحر وساخر ويحاول مخاطبة الناس من خلال الحياة في الجماد والطبيعة أكثر من الحياة التي في الجسد.(3)العقـد : الصفقة التي تولّد عنها خـلقٌ جديدخلاصة الفكرة/ الرغبة، والألوان/ الحياة فيالسعي لكسر كل وحشية العمر الذي يحرمالجمال سره، الآن لن يبلغ منه هذا الوحششيء ولـكن سـوف يسكـنهُ شيطان اللـوحة....كانت أمنية دوريان قراي وهو يتأمل صورته وهي تفيض شبابًا وجمال أن قال مندهشًا "إذا استطعت أن أبقى شابًا وهذه الصورة تشيخ. سأبذل كل شيء، سأمنح روحي من أجل ذلك"، وقد أستجابت له الصورة / الشيطان فوهبته الشباب ووهبها روحه. ليصبح جسده مرآة الطبقة المخملية في كل بريطانيا وليس فقط مثالًا على "دبلن" مسقط رأسه. لذا بقيت الصورة . اللوحة القاتمة محل جدل بين كل طبقات لندن إبان نشر الرواية على مراحل – فصول – فكان يخاطب تلك الطبقة التي لا تعمل ولكن مكانتها تمنحها حق العيش مما تحتفظ به من ممتلكات وإقطاعات وما يأتي من دخلها الكبير. فكان هذا النقد موجهه لهم بقسوة فكانوا عند أوسكار كلهم دوريان وكان هنري الشيطان – كما أراه – هو ذلك المجتمع الراقي السياسي الذي منحهم هذه السلطة في العربذة والإنحراف واللامبالاة والإنغماس في لذة العيش. طبقة النبلاء كما كان يطلق عليها في العصور الوسطى أضحت في التاريخ الحديث هي الطبقة المخملية حملة لقب اللوردات وكبار التجار وهم الطبقة المخملية الذين وجه لهم أوسكار نقدًا لاذعًا حد الوجع وهو يُعرّي مجتمعهم وتفاصيلهم الصغيرة وكأنهم أتفقوا جميعًا على ممارسة السخط على الطبقة الكادحة – البلوتاريا – ونظرتهم الإستعلائية ودناءة سلوك أكثرهم إن لم يكونوا كلهم بالجملة وفق نظرة وايلد حيث كان يسخر منهم على طريقته الخاصة في أكثر من شخصية؛ الفنان وصاحب الإقطاع والطبيب والتاجر وسيدات القصور اللواتي يبحثهن عن إرضاء شهواتهن.(4)هاهي اللـوحة تأكل بـعضها الأخر. الألوان تحيل نفسها لسوادٍ قـاتم وغـضب، يسمعهاتصرخ عليه في اللـيل وتسلبهُ الرضا. لـكن الرغبة تسيطر عـليه يـباركـها منظره الآسر في العيون الأخرى. واللوحة تـصرخ أكـثر....الشر الذي يسكن اللوحة يغادر بقسوة نحو فضاء الواقع متمثلًا في الجنس والشذوذ وكل أكسسوارات الرذيلة التي تحدث للإنسان ليشبع رغباته حد النزق والجريمة / القتل. لم يعد دوريان يستطيع كبح جماح الشهوة وقد علم يقينًا أنه لا يشيخ طالما اللوحة سرها باقٍ بينه وبين حدود الإطار.المجتمع الذي يمثله دوريان وبازل وهنري وكل السيدات هو عصر كان رغم رفضه للرذيلة من خلال الكتابات والمعاراك الأدبية التي نقرأ شيئًا عنها في أدب العصر الفلكتوري وحتى ما قبل هذا العصر هو عصر جنون في كل شيء بقدر جنونه في النهضة بقدر جنونه في الأدب الذي يمثل تلك الحقبة ذات القرن الواحد وقد ساهم أمثال أوسكار في سبر أغوارها وكشف تفاصيلها كما تناول "جوروج أورويل" في الكثير من نقده في كتابه (لماذا أكتب) ولكن بنظرة متحفظة وذلك لطابعه المتعالي رغم عكس ما يظهر في كتاباته!، ويبدو أنه مزاجية الفرد الإنجليزي مثال صارخ في الرواية البريطانية والإيرلنيدية خصوصًا.(5)المواجهة : نـهاية الـعقد. نتانة الجسد يهربخارج إطـار اللـوحة. يأبى البـقـاء أكـثر منذلك. غادرته كـل حياته الماضية. هاهو الآن يعيش أكثر من حياة لكنه يخسر أكثر. كانالشيطان قد خسر جولة والإنسان قد سقط....المعارك لا تقبل خاسران أو منتصران رغم إيماني بأن كلا طرفيها خاسران. لكن الشيطان دومًا يكسب جولاته الأولى. الصورة التي أبدع فيها أوسكار كانت الفصول الأخيرة التي يبدأ فيها الإنسان دوريان من التفلت من هنري وأصبح شيطان نفسه. في إشارة على قدرة المرء أن يخلق شيطانه الذي يمثله مستغنيًا عن أي شيطانٍ آخر.ـــــــــــــــــــــــــــــأخيرًا وإختصارًاهذه رائعة أوسكار قصة دوريان الإنجليزي الذي يرسمه فنان في بروتريه فيعجب بصورته ويتمنى أن يبقى شابًا لا يشيخ فيعقد صفقة مع الشيطان فيتم له ويبقى شابًا لا يتقدم عمره، وبالمقابل اللوحة هى من تشيخ وتظهر عيلها التغضنات والتجاعيد عطفًا على الآثام والشر الذي تفرزه تصرفات دوريان، وكان حتمًا عليه أن يواجهها وينتهي كل شيء، وهذا ليس حرقًا للأحداث فهذه رواية روعتها في تفاصيلها وحوارتها أكثر من حبكتها.ـــــــــــــــــــــــفاصلة أولى :هاري تخفيف "هنري" كان هو الشيطان الأكبر – مع حفظ الحقوق لعقلية الكراهية الإيرانية – في هذا النص الإبداعي، ولا أعلم هل كان أوسكار وايلد متدينًا؟.. على الأقل هل كان يذهب كل أحد للكنيسة كالمسلمين الذين يعرفون الدين يوم الجمعة!!.. كان هنري الشيطان الآخر خارج حدود اللوحة وخارج عقلية دوريان. كان هنري الشيطان الذي أحاط بدوريان من الخارج ثم عندما وقع تركه.لم يكن أوسكار مصلحًا دون شك – لكنه كان يتذرع دومًا بالتبرير من يقرأ بعض أعماله وشيءٌ من سيرته سيجد عنصر دفع التهم حاضرٌ في كل أعماله (صورة دوريان روايته الوحيدة) وكذلك حتى في حياته الشخصية. يقع في الذنب / الخطيئة – وفق عقلية القرن التاسع عشر ميلادي – ثم يبدأ في التبرير ونفض الإثم عنه.أوسكار كان يمثل معادلة الخير والشر وثمن كلاهما في الحياة. لذا تأتي أعماله (عند القراءة المتأنية) أشبه بصراع بين قابيل وهابيل بين الشيطان والإنسان. لذا كرؤية أخيرة يبدو لي أن أوسكار هو هنري وهو دوريان وهو الفنان، وإن كان هو نفسه يُصرّح عن طبيعة أعماله بالمجمل إنها ثورة كليبان وآريل كما يتصوّر ثورة القرن التاسع عشر على الأدب الواقعي والخيالي.دون شك كان أوسكار يحاول جاهدًا من خلال قصائده وروياته الدفاع عن شذوذه الجنسي مع الرجال (أصلًا من لمن شفت صورة سيقانه لابس هيلا هوب والجزمة كولي هان فلات نسائي وأنا غاسل يدي منه) وحتى بعد خروجه من السجن بسبب قضايا أخلاقية – شذوذه – عاد من جديد لممارسة رذائله حتى توفي صغيرًا دون الخمسين، ولا نغفل عن تجريم هذه الأفعال في تلك الحقبة الماضية من القرن التاسع عشر في كثير من بلدان أوروباهذه صورته من صديقه الحميمي الذي أشتهر بعلاقاته الجنسية معهــــــــــــــــــــفاصلة ثانية:نسخة ترجمة لويس عوض (دار الخيال) من أعظم الترجمات لكن تنقصها عن النسخة الإنجليزية الأصل مقدمة أوسكار وايلد عن الفن وعن هذه الرواية وهي غاية في الروعة. ـــــــــــــــــــفاصلة ثالثة :أنظر فيلم :The Picture of Dorian Gray : 1945 / George Henry SandersDorian Gray : 2009 / Ben Barnes , Colin Firth
3110789480	4.75
3335747807	Buddy read with Tessy There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written. That is all. The Picture of Dorian Gray (tPoDG) is now my favourite classic, it tops Gone with the Wind which was my number one favourite classic. What made this better was the writing, it was so easy to understand for a book published in 1870, it also features lots of relatable situations.There are lots of pop culture reference of this book and it's author Oscar Wilde, I never thought it was like this, I thought it'd be a normal classic but instead I got a dark paranormal and I love it. I wonder who it was defined man as a rational animal. It was the most premature definition ever given. Man is many things, but he is not rational. The book is about Dorian Gray, he was twenty when the book started and 38 when it ended, he was beautiful, innocent and outgoing before he turned into a bitter, narcissistic and extremely vain, he was only interested in getting pleasures no matter the cost. “Humanity takes itself too seriously. It is the world’s original sin. If the caveman had known how to laugh, History would have been different.” I love the way his character was portrayed, it was indepth, I love that Oscar Wilde started the book from where he was still a good person.Henry Watton is the worst person ever, he all but ruined Dorian, this book thought me that yes, friends can affect our character and behaviour more than we think. “Never marry at all, Dorian. Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious; both are disappointed.” Basil was a good person with bad friends, that didn't end well for him. He knew that Henry was bad and Dorian innocent, still he told Henry about Dorian.On a whim, Dorian made a deal for his potrait to age while he remains forever young, somehow it happened, but whatever entity made that deal with him also made him bitter.
