1420372287	His eyes met Victor’s, and for a second neither man moved.Run, thought Victor, and he could see the response in Eli’s coiled frame.Chase me.Oh, how I loved this book! I've waited five long years for the sequel to Vicious and I was starting to think it would never happen... but Vengeful was so so good. Definitely worth the wait.This duology (series??) is called "Villains" and yet the characters are so much more interesting than that. While I've enjoyed a number of Schwab's books, I feel like her strongest writing and characters lie here with Victor and Eli. These "villains" are actually complex antiheroes - murderous and power-hungry, for sure, but also sympathetic and even likeable. They fascinate me.The bare bones of the story is not that original. I've read countless books about people with X-Men like powers. And yet, for me, Schwab makes this book stand out from the pile. She creates such interesting, well-rounded characters, and draws out the tension so perfectly that I need to know what happens next. I love it when an author can take an exhausted topic and breathe new life into it.In this book, new characters emerge to make the fight even bigger than before. Once again, we are forced to consider what it is to be good, to do right, and what it is to be evil. All of the characters do despicable things and yet their motives make a certain kind of sense-- even if I'm reluctant to admit it. The addition of a new character - Marcella - is a real highlight of this book. She is seriously terrible. And also freaking awesome. Perhaps she was glass. But glass is only brittle until it breaks. Then it’s sharp. In fact, the female characters are far bigger stars in Vengeful than they are in Vicious. Hell hath no fury like women seeking vengeance against the men who wronged them. June is another fantastic character and her snark made me smile with delight: “Whatever you’ve heard,” said June, “it’s probably true.” Vengeful's timeline jumps back and forth and all around, and frequently switches perspective. While less-skilled authors would probably give me whiplash with this, Schwab uses it really well. As the past races alongside the present, the tension increases until finally all the pieces come together. Never has the phrase “the past is catching up with you” been more appropriate.Between the new characters causing havoc and the inevitable confrontation between Eli and Victor, this book is just so addictively good. Eli's backstory made me love/hate him even more and Sydney's growth added another layer to the story. It was also great to have Victor confirm his asexuality on-page.It's such a good book, but I want to issue a quick warning so potential readers can make an informed decision: It's an adult book, with graphic violence and semi-graphic sex. Further content warnings for: (view spoiler)[domestic violence; attempted rape; drug use; suicide; graphic torture. (hide spoiler)]Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
2396271391	Okay. I'm gonna be a big brave girl and say it. This wasn't that great. There, I said it. Phew. That was a hard one to admit. I mean-yes, I liked it. -yes, Victoria Schwab could write assembly instructions and I'd still read every word like it was prose. -yes, it was great to be back into the Villains universe. -yes, it was entertaining and made me lose my mind. -and yes, I still think Mitch should adopt us all. But I can't say I loved Vengeful as much as I loved Vicious because it'd be a lie. I don't know if I should believe the tingling and bothering feeling in my brain that suggests that maybe this one suffered from the sequel curse, or if the disappointment comes from it being too long & packed with side characters/plots I couldn't get myself to fully care about, but I didn't feel the same enthusiasm I did last year, when Victor, Syd, Eli and their merry brigade came into my life.I have no idea what happened. Somewhere between the first and the last chapters I got lost (and a bit bored sigh) and couldn't focus on it properly, despite the twists and raw scenes.I felt like something was missing and, at the same time, something was imposing. I guess I'll figure out what exactly didn't do it for me, someday. But, man, what a pity. And what a slip.Don't get me wrong, Vengeful is still far from the tragedy that are many overhyped sequels out there, and I've still loved parts of it that I'll maybe gush about once the spoiler alert is at its minimum, but I still think Vicious was better. And, if possible, sort of different. @ Victoria Schwab, I still love you to pieces.Please, don't ever stop writing.Please, don't hate me. ACTUAL RATINGS 3,5/5
1973352450	One day I will be finished writing/rewriting this book.ETA: HAH. I DEFEATED YOU, BOOK MONSTER.ETA: Holy shit, VENGEFUL is up for a Goodreads Choice Award!! If you follow me at all online, you know what this book took from me in terms of blood, sweat, tears, and sanity, and how proud I am of the finished product. I'd be honored to have your vote!
1973437597	I could not put this book down!!Probably my favorite book by V E Schwab. Loved the story, loved the superpowers, loved the strong messed up female characters, loved that the story was told backward, loved the flashbacks. Book 2 was even better than the first one. Can't recommend this enough!Only thing is... gold nail polish? Really?
1544741945	“I don't want to survive. I want to thrive.”Am I Victor Vale yet cause I can assure you that I died several times during the course of this book.After wiping cold sweat off my forehead and 5 minutes of deep and thorough breathing exercises I am relieved and happy to tell you that I loved Vengeful. I had high hopes, but my fears were taller. Ever since Victoria had announced that she would write a sequel to Vicious, I wondered whether this was a good idea. Don't get me wrong, I loved the first book, but that was the exact reason why I wanted it to keep being a standalone novel. It was perfect. I loved it from start to finish, I could not find a single thing that bothered me, I was in awe with every single aspect of this book. Victoria is one of my favourite authors and I knew that she could write. Her writing, her characters, her stories are exceptional. And still, I had my doubts. I was not the biggest fan of and the finale to the Shades of Magic series was not as satisfying as I had wished.But then I opened the book and read the first page and I knew it, I knew this was the shit. This was going to be exactly what I wanted even though I had not known that I wanted it in the first place.Let's talk about the characters.I don't like Eli. He was a reckless fanatic and I wanted him to die. I didn't care for Victor. He was equally violent but at least not as self-righteous as Eli. My heart was always with Sydney, Doll, and Mitch. I want them to stay safe forever.Vengeful introduced me to Marcella, whom I loved from the very beginning. Her morals might have been even lower than those of Victor and Eli but I couldn't care less. June was another character I fell in love with. But she was not without issues either. However, I kind of like that her story was not explored in this book. We got hints, but her backstory is still draped in shadows...so if Victoria is actually going to write a third Villains book in five years - she said she might release a Villains book every five years - we might get to see more of June. (view spoiler)[And Sydney. But luckily not Eli, I'm pretty sure of that and not sad about it. What I am sad about is that Marcella was killed off. I understand why - she was too powerful and would have raised hell so her influence had to be limited - but she was a fascinating character. (hide spoiler)]The way this story was constructed was a work of art. Victoria managed to assemble an impressive amount of POVs, each with their own voice. Things could have easily become unrealistic or rushed, but Victoria managed to maintain the pacing and the result was a thrilling, breathtaking story about villains, power and death. I know that it took a lot of patience and willpower to write this book but it was worth it. 5 well-deserved stars.Find more of my books on Instagram
1955566596	“Men look at anyone with power and see only a threat, an obstacle in their path. They never have the sense to see power for what it really is. Potential.” Vengeful was my second most anticipated book of this year, and it did not disappoint at all. It was absolutely a wild ride and I read it in, literally, two sittings within the same day. S0 let’s scream! ➽G O D, T H A T ’ S G O O D I think Schwab’s writing style for Vicious is the best of every talent she has in the writing department; she’s abstract, a wide world without clear boundaries, but with enough detail that it’s hard not to be enthralled. The ease with which I visualized scenes was just incredible; in this series especially, I think she does a really good job conveying the image of a scene without being too specific. SPOILER : The Syd/Victor scene on the balcony, the tea shop scene with Syd & June, and the scene in which a brick almost falls on Marcella all stuck out in my head in different ways.VENGEFUL's three female leads are a woman who can ruin anything--and anyone--she touches, a living voodoo doll, and a girl who can resurrect the dead. This book was made for 2018.-V.E. Schwab via TwitterThe power of women in this book is just so, so real. Schwab plays around with terrifying yet strangely compelling female villains, and sympathetic female villains, and complex female leads, and it’s just all gorgeous. All that is fantastic, but besides my absolute love for the writing, why did I read this so quickly and become so enthralled? The characters. God I fucking love how she makes every character dynamic and interesting through just a few words, just a little hint of knowledge about them conveyed so beautifully and immediately you feel that you understand this character and that you root for this character. Okay, so, here’s a quick rundown of all the sides and characters: ➽V I C T O R, M I T C H, S Y D N E Y → Victor Vale - one of the best well-intentioned villain-from-one-point-of-view characters of all time. → Sydney - a slow-aging teenager who can bring back the dead. a legend and a queen and i love her. → Mitch - Victor’s sidekick, with no powers. the purest person in this book by all measures.→ Dol - the ever-resurrecting dog. the only other pure being.→ Dom - a far more unwilling sidekick who can step outside time and is Done With This Shit. I actually love Dom. ➽E L I E V E R → Eli Ever - is immortal and has also been through some shit, and he is ready to kill.Everyone said I would learn to sympathize with Eli this book, and you know what, you were all correct. I've always thought Eli made a fantastic villain, but his character writing here really hit a STRIDE. ➽M A R C E L L A & J U N E → Marcella - former wife of a gangster who can quite literally erode people.→ June - a human voodoo doll. I have no idea what to make of her but I know I love her.→ Jonathan - a strangely forgettable character but oh well - that’s the point. I loved the presence of such complexity in the villains here, and how well these three sides were integrated into the broader plot. The sheer character juggling here is really is impressive. Between Vicious and this, I really, really am in love with this series - it's my favorite by her without competition. ✨ buddyread with most of goodreads, probablyBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
2681739804	5/5 ⭐Full review on my Blog: The Dacian She-Wolf 🐺 “You’re not blessed, or divine, or burdened. You’re a science experiment.” When I didn’t think V.E. could become more mind-blowing, newsflash, she does.With this.I mean omg. Vicious ? Fucking loved it. Vengeful ? Fucking masterpiece.The story somehow manages to become even darker, the action even more precipitated, too much detail but still enough to make the story real. The plot is even more complicated because there are many new characters entering scene, each and every one of them with their own personality and intense power so, again, V.E.’s mind scares the chickenshit out of me sometimes, but most of the time I think that’s just pure evil genius.Because there are other characters making up the action, there is also a certain change of pace when it comes to the fluidity of the story itself.Still, there are huge time lapses, from five years in the past, to three weeks in the past, to fourteen years in the past and so on. To that, add the life story of a few new characters and there you go, a nice vegetable soup for all of us to enjoy.This is a book ruled by the thirst for power and revenge and by some sort of desperate search for something that might look like hope, but too twisted to be it.Each of the important characters of the book has a certain level of need – one might need hope, another might need recognition, another might need love, another reassurance. It is very interesting to see how each and every desire affects the personality of the characters and turns them to the darker side of their mind. “I don’t want to survive. I want to thrive.” I loved the fact that all of the characters (new and old) have their own things going on but somehow, everything they do ends up interconnected so it just becomes a big, messy mess. It honestly amazes me how ruthless and brutal are the lives of the characters. Their background and upbringing, their own experiences make up the whole road full of decisions they made for themselves in order to become the actors who stay now in front of us and act.One thing I noticed is that the whole vibe of this installment, besides the dark mood going on, is definitely the evil sexy one. This book is evil sexy and I mean it – from the mere presence of Victor Vale to Marcella and Marcus’s hot relationship.Marcella Riggins née Morgan is the character I felt attracted to the most – she is gorgeous, smart, powerful, ruthless and fearless and she’s damn sassy and dramatic. She proves that no matter what your genre is, the power calls to those who want it true. No man can stand straight in from of Marcella, because she knows how to bring them down.I bloody loved her, even though she was supposed to be the bad guy of the book. Some of my favourite scenes of the book are actually hers because – she is a bloody queen of dramatics and I was living for her shows. “Men look at anyone with power and see only a threat, an obstacle in their path. They never have the sense to see power for what it really is.” “And what is that?” asked June. “Potential.” I also liked June and I strongly believe that we are going to see more of her in the next Villains book, because she felt too important to be left behind and also we don’t know much about her, even though there is definitely a lot behind her thousand masks.I wanted more Victor. That is for sure. My favourite oh-not-so-evil-though villain needed more action. I wanted to see his struggle and to witness his mind at work. Because to me, Victor Vale could sit and watch paint dry in a dark room and I’d be fascinated by the sight. No kidding.Something that I didn’t think possible though is that somehow I started liking Eli in this book. There was this other dimension of him that I craved to find out and now that I have, he actually makes a lot of sense. And I wanted more of him and Victor to happen. I loved their crazy dynamics in the first book and I didn’t want that to end so fast. (Confession: I think I actually ship them together). I’m super impressed with this sequel from the Villains series. It was darker, more complex and deeper than the first book, the whole atmosphere shifting slightly in Schwab’s characteristic way. I truly can say that I fell in love with evil souls and I’m not ashamed to admit that right here and right now. My own evil soul is happy with that so I’m at peace.“The life I had is gone. There’s no getting it back. I’d rather make a new one. A better one. One where I don’t have to pretend to be weak to survive.”
2002437578	I know Victor Vale is real because this book made me feel all kinds of pain
3317627661	“Some people were matches, a bit of light and no heat. And some were furnaces, all heat but little light. And then, once in a blue moon, there was a bonfire, something so hot and bright you couldn't stand too near without burning.”I loved this so much!! And I’m saying this not only because I’m Victor Vale trash - which I obviously am - but because V.E. Schwab knows how to tell a story! The way “Vengeful” was told is nothing but amazing. We have four weeks ago in the present, we have the past and the longer the story proceeds the closer we get to the actual present events and the final climax of the story. And yes, I chose my words carefully here because while reading the book I couldn’t help but find parallels to Victor’s condition.“Vengeful” builds up like one of Victor’s energy charges and after the discharge you’re as drained and dizzy as him. This book however isn’t only about Victor but also about Eli, Sydney and Mitch. There are a lot of new players that enter the scene, like for instance Marcella, June and Jonathan. Not to mention all the countless EO’s EON found and arrested as well as the ones Victor found and ... well you know Vic doesn’t do things by halves. ;-P Neither does Eli, so it was only a matter of time until our old friend began scheming once again. This time it’s not all about Victor and Eli though and I was really happy to discover that we got a lot of female power to counterbalance our two boy’s ongoing feud! XD Believe me when I say that every single one of those characters has their own agenda and that they are not squeamish when it comes to enforcing their ambitions. We basically get a gathering of ruthless and powerful people who literally walk over dead bodies in order to achieve their goals and do I even need to say it? Yes? Well, my inner faerie had a field day! *lol* And before I go on and on, I better head to my character’s section and gush over there! ;-)The characters: You know what they say about Rome? All roads lead to Rome. Well, in this case it’s Merit so: Welcome to Merit! The city in which Victor Vale and Eli Ever started their vicious and vengeful vendetta. Tread carefully when you enter, you might get right smack into the middle of their fight and parts of spoilers could hit you at every corner! Consider yourself warned. Victor Vale:”He had craved a lot of things – power, revenge, control – but sex was never one of them. Even with Angie... he’d wanted her, of course, wanted her attention, her devotion, even her love. He’d cared about her, would have found ways to please her – and perhaps found his own pleasure in that – but for him, it had never been about sex.”First things first: I still LOVE and ADORE Victor Vale. <33 His character was every bit as intriguing and morally grey as it was in “Vicious” and it was such a pleasure to watch his mind at work. I was glad to discover that his habit of using text markers to blot out words hadn’t changed, even though I’ve to admit that – in this context – it broke my heart. Victor is all about logic and control and in “Vengeful” the two things he always relied on were taken away from him. He has no control over his body’s degeneration and even though he knows that he’s doomed the solution-oriented part of him just can’t accept his predicament. He’s a man on a mission and once he sets his mind to something he just can’t let it go. The truth is Victor clings to his life because he actually wants to live! He doesn’t want to leave Sydney or Mitch behind and he’s desperate to find a cure. It hurt to see him struggle and to know that he was just a shadow of his former self, but after that ending I have hope again! Maybe Victor will have a comeback in book three?! Please?! *asks nicely* ”You’re such a weirdo sometimes.”“Only sometimes?” asked Victor. “I’ll have to try harder.” Those blue eyes flicked to Eli. “Normal is overrated.””Look at me,” he said coldly, catching Sydney’s chin in his hand. “The next time you point a gun at someone, make sure you’re ready to pull the trigger.” ”Victor was used to being the strongest person in the room, and it was both familiar and unsettling to see that confidence on someone else.”Sydney:”Victor haunted her. His pain haunted her. His dying haunted her.Because it was Sydney’s fault.”Ahh little Sydney has grown so much over those last five years! It was good to see that she became a part of Victor’s little family and that they got along so well. (Well is a loosely used term though because they are a super dysfunctional family but it somehow works? *lol*) If you ask me I don’t think that Sydney doesn’t age, I think that she does, but she does it very slowly. Maybe it has to do with the ice? It could have slowed down her metabolism and therefore she’d age really slowly? The concept of cryo-preservation exists for a reason after all. ;-) Also it was good that she worked on her abilities. I’m curious to find out what she might be able to do after she had some years to get accustomed to her powers. Hopefully I’ll be able to see it in the third book. XD Plus, I think now that she made peace with Serena’s death it might be easier to handle her powers. The emotional trauma of losing her sister might have influenced her abilities and I can’t wait to see her really grow into them. Eli Ever:”Eli’s faith had faltered in that room.He had found Hell in that room.And the only sign of God was that, no matter what Haverty did, Eli continued to survive. Whether he wanted to or not.”I hate that I feel sorry for him, but since this was obviously Schwab’s intention I can blame it all on her. *lol* No, seriously. No one deserves to have a Dr. Haverty in their life and what he did with Eli was just cruel and inhuman. It was torture and no matter what Eli did it was wrong to experiment on him. Of course to some degree a person like Haverty was necessary to find Eli’s weaknesses and to explore them, because otherwise there would have been no way to stop him if he ever escaped. Which he ultimately did and Dr. Haverty was there to provide a solution. So yeah, I actually saw that one coming so I wasn’t surprised by the ending. Still, there were other things I didn’t expect: For instance Eli’s past. I began to wonder if he might have become a different person if his father wouldn’t have hurt him so much. How many of the things he believed were indoctrinated? How would he have turned out if his father’s religious fanaticism wouldn’t have shaped his thinking so much? It boggles the mind if you think about it too hard. In the end Eli was nothing but a little boy that got hurt by his own father and this actually made me really sad. =((”He prayed that the pastor would stop seeing whatever he saw, while he carved new feathers into the torn wings of Eli’s back.” Marcella:”How many men would she have to turn to dust before one took her seriously?”Now, if Marcella wasn’t the embodiment of a femme fatale, then I really don’t know! XD That woman was burning like a wildfire and consuming everything in her path. And just like a wildfire she wasn’t put out easily. ;-) Which quite honestly, only made me love her character even more. *lol* I liked the idea of a strong and independent female villain that strove for more than life was willing to offer her and I was glad she posed a real threat to Stell. Hell, Marcella even posed a threat to Eli and he was basically what you would call “extremely hard to kill”. Plus that woman had style! She took what she wanted and did it openly without hesitation. It’s rare to find a villain like that, especially a female one, which is just one more reason to love her for it! XD It’s a shame Eli managed to kill her, but without Jonathan she would have never been able to hold out for so long. ”She was done playing by other people’s rules. Done hiding. If you lived in the dark, you died in the dark. But stand in the light, and it was that much harder to make you disappear.””And what happens then?”“Oh,” mused Marcella, tracing the veins in the stone, “I imagine that Director Stell will decide I’m more trouble than I’m worth.””Jesus, Marcella, anyone ever told you that you’re batshit crazy?”Marcella pursed her lips. “Several times,” she said. “It’s an insult men love to aim at ambitious women.”June:”I saw became I think I saw became I couldn’t have seen became I didn’t see. Eyes were fickle. Minds were weak.” Okay, let me say it: HOW COOL ARE JUDE’S POWERS???!!! OMG! A living shape shifting voodoo doll!!! Gosh, I’d love to have abilities like that!!! She can’t only change into every kind of person she wants to be, no, she also can’t be hurt while she wears that person’s skin! That’s like a Mystique 2.0 version and I’d be so ready to have superpowers like that! XD Of course I’d try not to get killed while wearing another person’s skin, because really, that would be more than just unfair to the poor person who would have to die. Still, the sheer possibility of being a different person every day or choosing your favourites to change every once in a while, just amazing! It doesn’t really surprise me that Jude became an assassin with skills like that; I can’t help but feel like there is way more to her character than we ever got to see though. I still have so many question marks when it comes to Jude and the more I read about her the more intrigued I became. I just hope that some mysteries will be solved in the third book because for now I’m left wondering and I’m getting a serious headache whenever I think too hard about it. *lol*”Was it worth it? Syd had asked her that night, when she confessed to giving up her face, her life, herself. And it was, it was, but that didn’t stop June from craving the light of recognition in someone’s eyes. The comfort of being seen, being known.”The relationships & ships:Victor & Sydney:”Sydney, I am alive because of you,” he said firmly. Tears spilled down Syd’s cheeks. Victor reached out and touched her shoulder. “You saved me.”She met his eyes then, ice blue laced with red. “But I broke you.” Aww those two! I loved to see Victor’s gentle side and no matter how much he tried to deny that he loved Sydney, he actually did/does! Syd felt terrible for causing him so much pain, but funnily enough Victor never held it against her. He always knew that her powers are limited and he tried to protect her from the truth. Well, at least as long as he could. It had to come out eventually and my heart broke for both of them when it did. >_< To leave her with Mitch and Dol was the right decision even though it hurt to see them part. But Sydney knew because she’s probably the only person, aside from Mitch, who knows when Vic is lying. T_T I just hope that Victor finds a solution and that they will reunite at some point. Their story isn’t over yet and I’m convinced they’ll meet each other again. <3”He could read the question in her face. It was the same one crashing through his own head.What have I done?””There’s something I have to do.” Sydney was already shaking her head, but Victor reached out and put a hand on her cheek, the gesture so strange, so gentle, it stopped her cold.“Syd,” he said, “look at me.”Victor & Eli:”It frightened and thrilled Eli, to be seen, and to see himself reflected. Not all of himself – they were still so different – but there was something vital, a core of the same precious metal glinting through the rock.”How come those two men barely had any page time together, but their chemistry was still off the charts?! It’s so damn obvious that in some twisted sort of way they are in love with each other. Their obsession and the fact they can’t let go is indication enough. I mean Eli thinks Victor is dead but still talks to his ghost?! You usually only do that with loved ones! And I swear, I could feel Eli’s relief when he found out that Victor isn’t dead. He wants to kill him once again? That’s just an excuse to see him! They both need each other, they give each other purpose and I wonder what’s going to happen with Victor now that Eli is truly dead. Or is he? I’m still not all too convinced that he’s really gone! I mean what if Dr. Haverty’s drug didn’t take?! Or its effect weakened? Is it possible for Eli to heal even if he’s dead? Would he be able to come back? ADFKASDKFADAKLMNÖ! Talk about things that boggle the mind. I guess I’ll only get answers once I read book 3! >_< (whenever it will come out. Ahhhhh! T_T) ”Victor wondered if that was why EON hadn’t gotten closer. Not because their pet had failed to see Victor’s hand in the killings, but because he had.” ”Victor stared at the wall as if it were still a window. “He doesn’t know how patient you are,” he said. “Doesn’t know you like I do.”Eli cleaned the blood from his hands.“No,” he said softly. “No one ever has.””Run, thought Victor, and he could see the response in Eli’s coiled frame. Chase me.””Victor.” A pause. “You were supposed to stay dead.”“It didn’t take.”Sydney & June:”June could think of a dozen reasons to make sure Victor was dead, and only one to stay her hand. Sydney.”So what exactly has been going on between those two? I have a lot of theories about June’s motives but I don’t know if any of them hits close to home. My first theory is that she’s in love with Sydney and a lot of the things she thought seemed to confirm that suspicion. I mean she referred to Syd as “her girl” and she didn’t only want to protect her but also wanted her to choose her over Victor. A person she knows Syd loves. Mhmm... but then again with the little we know about her past she could also be related to Syd? I don’t know how exactly but it could be possible? ARGH! I have no idea, seriously for all I know June could be her grandma and I’m not even kidding here. *lol* June is the most opaque character I ever encountered because we got NOTHING about her background. Well, at least nothing tangible. I get the feeling Schwab made her like that on purpose and I’m sure we’ll see a lot of her in book three. Considering Syd deleted her number from her phone it might take some while until they meet again though. >_<Conclusion:This sequel was everything I hoped for and even more! <3 I loved to read about all the new players that came into the game, I was happy to read about the old ones and I still can’t get enough of their morally ambiguous stance on certain things. The world needs more books like this and I’m so ready to read them all! And yes, I’m going to admit it: I’m Victor Vale trash and I’ll never be sorry for it! *lol* Can we have book three now, Victoria? XD
2425986447	Not sure whether to rate 3 or 4. I have mixed feelings on this book. Vengeful continues on to be a fun and gritty drama with intriguing new characters, but I question whether a sequel was necessary. While the first book had a clear focus on the rivalry between Victor and Eli and their gray morality, the central themes in Vengeful were muddled and had a much more confusing timeline. I was intrigued by the new characters, but by the end felt like they were just added there to serve the plot. I feel like this book tried to cover all these characters throughout the story (Victor, Eli, Marcella, June, Sydney, Mitch, Stell, etc) that we didn't have as much in-depth character exploration on any of these individuals, thus many of their motives (especially June's) were flimsy. I think this would have been better as a spin-off within the same universe but primarily focused on a new rivalry, like Marcella vs June, especially since we didn't get to see much of Victor and Eli's interactions here anyway.
3094715758	OMG! It took toooooooooooo long to finish this book and I wish the third book will come out sooner because I didn’t get my enough intake of Eli and Victor! They didn’t feature at this book as much as I expected. Dammit!Well, I enjoyed the first one so much. It was one of darkest, bloody nightmares and I seriously fell in love with the writing. The second installment is also dark, vulgar, violent, bloodier, stunning and introducing us toughest villanelles which was the weakest point of the first book not to have enough female characters instead of Sydney. But its longevity slows the pacing and it seems like I have read two additional books at the same time (It could be more than three books. That wasn’t necessary to write only trilogies! If my favorite author writes more than five books with these amazing characters, I will read them without thinking a second!)BUT… yes something is with this one. It’s good but not sooo great! Not my kind of mind blowing, wow my mind keep spinning kind of controversial five starred reading. But I have to admit the author mesmerized us with mind numbing time zone trick. Yes, you got lost in several of them. So this book reminding me of complex mathematical equation. Let’s talk about newbies: Marcella and June. Femme fatale and shapeshifter badass. They are cruel, wild and dangerous. Marcella is breathtakingly beautiful nemesis and don’t forget the mysterious June become a real good sister to Sydney.The complex relationship of Eli (I'm still visualizing him as Michael Fassbender )and Victor (He could be played by James McAvoy and I will enjoy every second of it) salute us again and guess what we read more about Eli’s backstory which makes you scream, pissed off, break your heart into tiny pieces and you get the reason why he chose a path to become a villain. Mostly I enjoyed the parts of my favorite trio from the first book: Victor-Mitch-Sydney: My dangerous modern three musketeers, another version of modern family.This world building, amazing character development and dark themes always fascinate me. I don’t want to wait for the third one so long and I wished it will be released at the end of this year. Well another waiting for Godot situation for me and I became Vladimir again.
2504018639	theres nothing quite like reading about a bunch of sociopaths to make you feel good about your life. additionally, theres nothing like enjoying a book about sociopaths to make you feel the need to re-evaluate your life. lol. this had everything i loved about vicious, and so much more! i dont even know where to begin. how lucky we are to even get a sequel? how much more world building was present in this? the fact that mitch was still so wholesome? the brilliance of schwabs storytelling? how much this made me wish i could shapeshift? or quite possibly the fact that i HAVE A CRUSH ON ELI?! what is even wrong with me!? i am just going to take my falling for a mass killer as proof that story was exceptionally well-written, the character development was on point, and everything about this got me so invested. if i could have made one teeny tiny little change, i would have preferred less side plots/minor characters. eli and victor definitely deserved to be the focus of this book at all times. i think these additional characters were added to set up for another book (maybe? possibly? fingers crossed?), but i felt like they diverted too much attention away from the people who really mattered.overall, when all is said and done, this book definitely made me feel like i need therapy because it was almost the death of me (that ending though, seriously). so i will be forwarding you my treatment bill, ms. schwab. be sure to check your junk mail. :P ↠ 4.5 stars
4986359089	“𝐻𝑜𝓌 𝓂𝒶𝓃𝓎 𝓂𝑒𝓃 𝓌𝑜𝓊𝓁𝒹 𝓈𝒽𝑒 𝒽𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝓉𝑜 𝓉𝓊𝓇𝓃 𝓉𝑜 𝒹𝓊𝓈𝓉 𝒷𝑒𝒻𝑜𝓇𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝑒 𝓉𝑜𝑜𝓀 𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝓈𝑒𝓇𝒾𝑜𝓊𝓈𝓁𝓎?”“𝒫𝑒𝓇𝒽𝒶𝓅𝓈 𝓈𝒽𝑒 𝓌𝒶𝓈 𝑔𝓁𝒶𝓈𝓈. 𝐵𝓊𝓉 𝑔𝓁𝒶𝓈𝓈 𝒾𝓈 𝑜𝓃𝓁𝓎 𝒷𝓇𝒾𝓉𝓉𝓁𝑒 𝓊𝓃𝓉𝒾𝓁 𝒾𝓉 𝒷𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓀𝓈. 𝒯𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝒾𝓉’𝓈 𝓈𝒽𝒶𝓇𝓅.” ❇ “I don't want to survive. I want to thrive.” ╰┈➤˗ˏˋ TLDR - It's an ahhhmazzinggg duology - a must read. ❇ V.E Schwab consistently blows me away with her series - but furthermore, she always brings it home with their conclusions. It's no surprise that she’s done it again. I literally adore V.E Schwab’s series - I swear, so so good. For me there was so much to love here, new characters, new powers, new plot. And of course the returning characters, the old complications, and at the core of it all, that burning intense rivalry between Victor and Eli.╰┈➤˗ˏˋ Her worlds and characters are so compelling and her stories are intricately woven. Usually it’s her world building that wins me over more than anything but in this series it’s totally her characters.Victor and Eli are the central characters that tie this story together and I LOVED their dynamic here. The continuation of the cat and mouse game that started in book one felt really natural and the conclusion of their story was really bittersweet, but ultimately satisfying.Sydney also had so much development. It was really fun to see her toughen and grow up, and her character arc was really interesting. I liked that I never knew what she was going to do until she did it. I was constantly left on my toes and it added so much excitement. But Sydney is such a non-typical protagonist and she’s super fun to follow, especially in this as she’s getting older and more angsty. I really enjoyed reading her with that little bit of edge she’s developed.╰┈➤˗ˏˋ The new characters, particularly Marcella, were also really interesting. I loved the juxtaposition between Marcella and Victor. Schwab works a lot with juxtapositions and representing characters as foils of each other in this series and it’s really interesting. Marcella added this dynamic third element that kept me intrigued. I also loved her just as this real bad bitch woman, and it’s so refreshing to see a woman who is both powerful in their own right, and villainous.╰┈➤˗ˏˋ In Vengeful, Schwab takes her characters and amps them up to a hundred, pushing them right to their emotional and physical limits. I love that she does that in her conclusions. I feel there is always so much follow through and development that makes me fall in love with her characters all over again. I really admired how Schwab was able to make this feel like such a progression of the original book. It felt like this sequel has always been there and that continuity was amazing. The world building, especially in involving more EO and law enforcement was really interesting to me.The disjointed time and careful plot construction was also a highlight. The non-linear time added so much to this story for me, especially in creating mystery and intrigue.╰┈➤˗ˏˋ I LOVE this series and Vengeful has absolutely solidified that for me in my mind. It’s a thrilling, original series with complex main characters and tight, meticulous plot lines. V.E Schwab writes such admirable and clever books and this one makes me wish I had her talent, so fucking much. It was truly perfect.❇ Victor stared at the wall as if it were still a window. “He doesn’t know how patient you are,” he said. “Doesn’t know you like I do.” Eli cleaned the blood from his hand. “No,” he said softly. “No one ever has.”“𝑀𝒶𝓎𝒷𝑒 𝓌𝑒 𝒶𝓇𝑒 𝒷𝓇𝑜𝓀𝑒𝓃. 𝐵𝓊𝓉 𝓌𝑒 𝓅𝓊𝓉 𝑜𝓊𝓇𝓈𝑒𝓁𝓋𝑒𝓈 𝒷𝒶𝒸𝓀 𝓉𝑜𝑔𝑒𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇. 𝒲𝑒 𝓈𝓊𝓇𝓋𝒾𝓋𝑒𝒹. 𝒯𝒽𝒶𝓉’𝓈 𝓌𝒽𝒶𝓉 𝓂𝒶𝓀𝑒𝓈 𝓊𝓈 𝓈𝑜 𝓅𝑜𝓌𝑒𝓇𝒻𝓊𝓁. 𝒜𝓃𝒹 𝒶𝓈 𝒻𝑜𝓇 𝒻𝒶𝓂𝒾𝓁𝓎—𝓌𝑒𝓁𝓁, 𝒷𝓁𝑜𝑜𝒹 𝒾𝓈 𝒶𝓁𝓌𝒶𝓎𝓈 𝒻𝒶𝓂𝒾𝓁𝓎, 𝒷𝓊𝓉 𝒻𝒶𝓂𝒾𝓁𝓎 𝒹𝑜𝑒𝓈𝓃’𝓉 𝒶𝓁𝓌𝒶𝓎𝓈 𝒽𝒶𝓋𝑒 𝓉𝑜 𝒷𝑒 𝒷𝓁𝑜𝑜𝒹.” ⭐️˚ ༘ ೀ⋆｡˚˚ ༘ ೀ⋆｡˚˚ ༘ ೀ⋆｡˚ ˋ°•*⁀➷ Vicious Book 1 Review┊ ┊ ┊ ┊ ┊ ┊┊ ┊ ┊ ┊ ˚★⋆｡˚ ⋆┊ ┊ ┊ ⋆┊ ┊ ★⋆┊ ◦★⋆ ┊ . ˚ ˚★
1411351840	Guys, get ready...
2164028112	One of top 5 worst reads of 2018. This was a fiasco. An absolute clusterfuck. What a joke.
2775189857	3.75. I might bump this up to 4 because that’s what I thought I’d give it up until the very end. But this was very anti climactic for me and definitely did not compare to how perfect Vicious was for me.
1647511382	OHMYGODTHIS F*CKING BOOKSomeone pls kill me as this book is making me suffer inside And then bring me back to life bc I want superpowers Anyways RTC.
6543183473	I've been putting this on hold for so long, because I didn't want it to end, but now it ended. and I would literally do anything for the third book rn
5693852412	just realized this was published in 2018 😱 and it's still reads like it could have been written yesterday ✨️👌🏽
2314206589	Full review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book PrescriptionActual Rating: 4.5 starsVictoria Schwab liked my tweetMy life is complete!!
3979124238	Sydney is such a cinnamon roll. Even when she's shooting people. She must be protected at all costs. review to come....
1407500420	As much as I adored Vicious and consider it one of my favorite standalones of all time, this sequel didn't work for me at all. It was a drudge to get through and I didn't care about any of the characters. Hopefully I'll be able to better formulate my thoughts in the future.---------------------AM I DREAMING?? One of my all-time favorite books gets a sequel?!This is too good to be true.What I want to know is when? WHEN?
2216511795	All I can say is there better be a Villains #3 after this because I just want to know who the hell June is. C’monnnnnnnn
4622396332	✅✅ Morally grey characters (I still love Victor) ✅ Lovable secondary characters ✅ Badass and powerful female characters✅ Writing✅ Found family (kind of…)✅ More Eos✅🆗 Many plotlines (too many?)✅🆗 Tension✅🆗 Pace I enjoyed this book, overall it was very good, but definitely not as brilliant as Vicious. I am surprised by the direction this book took, and I honestly do not see the real purpose of Marcella and her gang in this story, besides creating a situation that will bring Eli and Victor to meet again. I do like the fact that there are more powerful female characters in this second book though. “It doesn’t matter if you’re a human versus a human or a human versus an EO or an EO versus an EO. You do what you can. You fight, and you win, until you don’t.” The world-building expands in this book as new EOs are introduced. Contrary to the first book where we mostly followed Victor and Eli, in this book we also follow Marcella, June, and Sydney as each of them has their own goals and problems, but they still end up all crossing each other’s path in some way.The time jumps were also a little confusing in the first part of the book (for me at least). When I started a new chapter, I often had to go back to the previous chapter(s) to try to figure out what happened when and to be able to create a timeline. The chapters kept jumping between 5 years ago, 4 weeks ago, 3 years ago, 3 months ago, etc. It got better after that though and was more similar to the first book where there were fewer “time frames” and where the chapters were a countdown towards the final event of the book. She was nursing a beer in a glass bottle, and she was bored—bored by the music, and the boys who swaggered over every now and then to flirt, and then stormed away, sulking, when she turned them down. She was bored with being called beautiful, and then a bitch. Stunning, and then stuck up. A ten, and then a tease.Marcella had always been pretty. The kind of pretty people couldn’t ignore. Bright blue eyes and pitch-black hair, a heart-shaped face atop the lean, clean lines of a model. Her father told her she’d never have to work. Her mother said she’d have to work twice as hard. In a way, both were right. Marcella is a new character, and while I really love her confidence and strength, I somehow struggled to really like her as a whole. She is a wildcard, she’s ambitious, loves the taste of power, and thrives on the fear she instills in others. I loved her presence in the book, and the darker, more intense scenes she created, but as I said, I part of me still struggled to really like her and appreciate her chapters. A part of me liked her character, but the other part just wanted to go back to Eli and Victor and forget about her. June is a new character that really intrigued me though, and I am a little frustrated that we still don’t really know where her obsession with Sydney and with keeping Sydney safe comes from. I understand that it “clicked” when they met, and they enjoy talking to each other, but for me, it felt like June’s attention was more than just a friend’s looking out for another friend. It drove her decisions, and even “forced” her to do bad things for the greater good (the greater good being keeping Sydney safe). It was almost obsessive, and I kept wondering if she knew Sydney before, or how she was connected to her, other than the fact that they ran into each other.As for John… Honestly, he has no purpose at all besides staring at Marcella to keep her protected from her enemies. I did not care for him. At all. Nothing more to say about him. Turned toward Eli like a face toward a mirror. Like to like. It frightened and thrilled Eli, to be seen, and to see himself reflected. Not all of himself—they were still so different—but there was something vital, a core of the same precious metal glinting through the rock. One thing that I missed in this book, was the tension between Eli and Victor. While this second book was also dark and bloody (I would even say bloodier maybe), I did not get nearly enough of Victor and Eli. One of my favorite thing from Vicious was how the tension was slowly building toward their inevitable confrontation, and how it kept me at the edge of my seat, but this tension was not really there in this book. It’s only in the last 20% that I knew that they would indeed meet, but even when it finally did happen, it was not as epic and intense as in the first book. Victor stared at the wall as if it were still a window. “He doesn’t know how patient you are,” he said. “Doesn’t know you like I do.” Eli cleaned the blood from his hand. “No,” he said softly. “No one ever has.” We still get to see Victor and Eli interact, but only for a too-brief period of time. I missed their intensity and thirst for revenge. We do learn more about Eli’s past in this book, and this insight helps us understand his character a little better, but I still want Victor to win. I am Team Victor. Without a doubt.Honestly, with Victor on his own quest, Eli being held and trying to find a way to escape, June trying to protect Sydney and get her away from Victor, and Marcella rising to power, it felt like I was reading 3 different books for the first half. I knew the three plotlines would end up being connected, but it was hard to feel the connection and to see it in the first half of the book. She met his eyes. Those eyes that after everything still felt like family, like safety, like home. My favorite interactions (besides the ones between Eli and Victor obviously) are still the ones between the Victor-Mitch-Sydney trio. Mitch and Sydney have a cute relationship, it melt my heart to see how Mitch was cooking for her, teaching her things, and making sure she was as happy as possible considering they were constantly moving.Sydney and Victor’s relationship was also cute but in a more subtle way. Even though Victor remains a quiet and mostly self-centered character, it’s obvious that he cares for Sydney, and would be willing to do much, probably even put his life at risk, in order to protect her, which is saying a lot considering that Victor’s #1 priority has always been Victor himself... And killing Eli… Run, thought Victor, and he could see the response in Eli's coiled frame.Chase me. Overall I am still happy with this book. I did not enjoy it as much as Vicious, and it felt like the story was pulling me in three different directions at the same time, but I will definitely read the next book when it comes out. Honestly, I am left with a “so what now?” feeling. I know there will be the next book, but I have no idea where this book will go. I am just really hoping for more of Victor and Eli in the next book because they are the reason I fell in love with Vicious.1. Vicious ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Follow me on Instagram 🙂
5515695179	Nowa miłość i zachwyt. V.E. Schwab you did it again.
2563158043	*Sigh* This was great. Such a satisfying end to a wholly enjoyable duology. Or is it? JK, but I'm always hopeful that authors will return to my favorite worlds to continue stories on, even if it be through supporting character's stories. Marcella and June were exciting additions to the cast, and my mind is blown by how intricately the timelines were weaved together to keep our attention grasped. Highly recommend these books to folks who enjoy deep character studies of characters that are beyond the surface definition of evil.
2886640010	2019: 5/52020: 100000/5 Czy ja w ogóle muszę mówić, że ta książka już ma miejsce na podium najlepszych książek 2020?2024: milion/5 Nic się nie zmieniło, może tylko to, że w 2020 nie sądziłam, że w 2024 będę miała spotkanie z VE Schwab za sobą!!!!!
5756770196	most unnecessary sequel ever
3716982133	“Maybe we are broken. But we put ourselves back together. We survived. That’s what makes us so powerful. And as for family—well, blood is always family, but family doesn’t always have to be blood...” 3.75 starss ✨✨ this revieuw has no big spoilers from inside content and plottwistst etc. I talk a bit spoilers at the ending but they are marked with spoiler tags. This book does contain spoilers for vicious.... Overall this was a good sequel. was it necersarry after vicious ? no not really if you ask me but was it fun diving back intoo this world of murder and villians again and ve schwab her beautiful writing then YES it was. Overall i enjoyed this , the beautiful writing , the charracter dynamics and the way the plot and charracters all come together towards the end and how everything for that climax is prepared like in vicious , the villianness the questioning the charracters i again loved. We do have some new povs that wherent in vicious and i did had some hard time connecting with those ad indivudiuals , in the end it definitly makes sense too the story why they are thrown in but those chapters sometimes where boring too me so that was a meh. i just wanted my victor and eli bbys. and the found fam. This book follows our OG morally grey villian charracters from Vicious and has some new Povs of new certainly not hero charracter in it. Its again about perspective and how everyone has a different perspectives who the real villian is , Its about what people do too get control and its again full of people , extraordinaries who want too murder eachother and yes also Victor and Eli ofcourse , what is new ? Victor is on the run with his little found familly EO Sydney , former cellmate Mitch and ofcourse Dol brought back too live 3.0. Sydney has brought Victor Vale back too life but something in his original EO ability has changed , he has a constant buzzing sound in his head and he dies and comes back too live when he uses his power too much aka escalation , they are on the run looking for a cure for victor so he can get his much wanted control back. Eli is in prison but not a normal prison rotting away desperate too get out ofcourse and we follow new charracters ; Marcella who is a new born EO who was killed by her drugdealer ish husband and now wants revenge and kill him oh and kill as many people as she can because she wants too be powerfull. and we have June an EO who can shapeshift intoo people their bodies if she touched them once and who becomes '' friends '' with our sydney but also with marcella HMM. and then things happen as the roads of all our charracters start too connect and murders happen as always. . The plot How does ve schwab do it i scream. She is so good at plots and connecting dots and all these things and charracters during her book too get too the climax. If you look at it as a whole everything makes sense and its just so good putted in eachother if you get what i mean. the plot in this sequel again had victor and eli their dynamic as the most important thing and the whole story was woven arround that amazing dynamic. The plot gets you again questioning who is good and who is wrong or are they all wrong and good in their own way. The plot dived deeper in Eli his past which is something i loved seeing as it explored the '' the past influences what you act like in your future '' theme which i find very intresting. We also see another side of victor during the plot as he is struggeling with his control and looking for a cure. The plot is very fast paced , murders are happening all the time and mostly i enjoyed the pacing , i think its comparable too vicious , maybe a little slower. I didnt really care at first for the other povs that where thrown in new but they did grew on me but those where a lil boring for me in the begining. i also love the time switches , i am a sucker for them and the whole story slowly comes together because of this writing style and it feels like one big puzzle which i love , i love slowly figuring it all out. also THAT ENDING WTF. i am shocked , its open and i am screaming. The villians , the charracters I cant help it but i care for theswe psychopaths period. I care for Eli and his past was amazingly written and makes somuch sense and added another layer too him and the dynamic between him adn victor which is cheff kiss [ they barely spend time together in both books but at the end , the climax but their chemistry is so fucking big , ve schwab is queen of charracter dynamics ] , i care for victor and his found family. the new ones i didnt really care a lot for like i said Mitch is a pure bby and i want too give him chocolade milk , victor is a psychopath and not a good men but intresting and he actually sometimes does care about their little fam and that makes me scream. Yes i am not okay and yes i root for villians. I just didnt care for Marcella , she was too less morally grey for me and just a villian and she took up much space of the story taking away victor and eli their shining time and then things happend and i was like ehm but why was she even in the book , she feels unneccersary. The ending had me looking up somany theories at the internet and i screamed so yes. (view spoiler)[WHAT did victor do with the tools when he got too work when he stayed with Eli his body , why didnt he burn eli his body ? and then he left the note catch me if you can and didnt meet his found family which is unlike victor fight me , he cares. I feel like he wants too protect those two beans and ran away focusing attention on him but why he let eli his body unburned and what he did with the tools ? i have no clue and i am screaming , also i feel like June didnt delete herself out of the system but sydney maybe hmmm. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2567803089	4.75 Golden StarsOne of the most anticipated on my TBR & it was totally worth it!4th best of 201997%as the author warned us before:“There are no good men in this game”1) Vicious: ★★★★★/52) Vengeful: ★★★★★/5with knowing the fact all of them were actually criminals, I, despite myself, love them all!WOW! Such ups & downs & twists & turns! It was spectacular! maybe in general not as good as book 1, but it revealed other aspects of their lives & I didn't expect I fell for that character, but I did. What can I do? tortured characters are my guilty pleasures. *maniac laughter* & that made me cry at the end of the story.Crime, Mystery, Powers, Sci-fi, all in one; this series is the one serious believable story about superhumans I was looking for. This series is all Gold!the beginning was a bit strange, with introducing a character I didn't know or wasn't interested in. But through the story, she was kind of interesting. (though I still say I wanted to skip her chapters to reach my favourite ones. I always like to do that but I've never done that. not even in re-reading.)the whole POV of the known characters were awesome, just like I expected.I felt many conflicts during reading, My favourite character didn't change, but another one I've never thought I would love is now close second in this series.I also found a ship! XDI was surprised, shocked, cried; my heart wrenched with a maniac laughter.Quick & thrilling read. I couldn't put the book down unless I had to. especially after 40%maybe the writing style was a bit confusing at first, because it was back & forth in past & present. but I got used to it after a while; & this style actually needs a lot of effort & talent to be written.also can we appreciated that all these superhuman powers are so unique? like it's not speed or freezing ability or mind reading or flying. All of them, & I mean ALL of them, were unique & fascinating.All hail Schwab, the new queen of fantasy & sci-fiNear the end had many exciting moments, made me clutched my fist because I was worried & also high with Adrenaline, I loved it! but then pfff, all the goodness was gone. the end disappointed me.do we have book 3 in this series? (because I thought it was duology but then I saw here on GR there will be book 3)-World building: ★★★★/5Characters: ★★★★★/5Written style: ★★★★★/5plot: ★★★★(★)/5General idea: ★★★★★/5
2967422964	(The idea is to read the crossings out too😉)Oh my goshhhhhh!!Vicious was amazing, but THIS BOOK ? This book DESERVES a standing ovation from the whole Goodreads community because it was was even better. It's MORE intense(the last 100 pages were nail-biting). More everything. There was more backstory (Eli's childhood simultaneously creeps me out and breaks my heart), more action, more fantaaastic characters, more twists. And that's why im giving it more STARS.Although the different storylines and time periods are a little confusing to begin with, you get used to it very quickly. And the way they all interlace and come together at the end is just pure genius! And there are more THAN 3 different time periods this time (yay!)Also, I'm pretty sure V.E. Schwab is an EO because no normal human could've written something this mind-blowingly good. THERE is no one else like her. I mean, who else could somehow manage to make me sympathise with power/revenge hungry and blood-thirsty sociopaths who would probably give me nightmares if they existed in real life??! All these character ARE essentially murders and the fact that I love every single one of them is beyond extraordinary. And the different superpowers- just WOW! The concepts are so imaginative and it's clever how it links with their last thoughtsEvery one of the main characters has an amaaaaazing power, that is unique and explained IN detail. Honestly, Disney should forget Sony and partner with Schwab instead because I need these villains in THE Marvel UNIVERSE June, Victor, Eli, Marcella, Dominic, Jonathan, Sydney.....they were all just on form. Seriously I was perpetually wowed by them! And Mitch is actually such a sweetie; I love him and his relationship with Sydney. Also speaking of Sydney, her friendship with June was just goals and she is so freakin awesome! I think these characters are what mades this book such an easy favourite and 5 ⭐ , and the fact that nothing was black or white. I kept flipping between the sides I rooted for (although obviously most of the time I was rooting for Victor's OG squad) and changing my mind about which villain I agreed more with. Honestly I can't recommend this book enough!! BR with the one and onlyy TABI!!!---RED ALERTTHIS IS NOT A DRILLI HAVE THE BOOKI repeat:I. HAVE. THE. BOOK.---I literally cannot get enough of V.E. Schwab!!After that ending in Vicious, 'desperate' doesn't even begin to describe how much I need this.
4684126721	“I don't want to survive. I want to thrive.” 4.5 stars. my blog review After a few months trying to finish this one (and failing because I was crying due uni), I finally made it. I was almost dying and said to myself "well, let's read for a couple hours"... And I finished the entire book, lmao.Let's see if I can write a proper review like I used to. Or I'll cry so bad.I gotta admit that I liked Vicious more than Vengeful, but that doesn't mean that Vengeful was bad. No. Marcella was a really interesting and amazing character. I really liked her so much. When I grow up, I wanna be like her.I disliked June. At all. And Sydney was getting into my nerves.As always, Schwab's writing is what keeps me alive. Her writing is so beautiful and gripping and captivating. Victor my ace king. If there's gonna be a 3rd book, it better not be so many years after this.I actually don't have a lot to say (complain) about this book. I liked it, but nothing's gonna top Vicious. Ever. previous review: well, that wasn't bad, actually. rtc!ugh, the way i know this book's gonna be the death of me but i'm here for it, says a lot of me and my emotional stability
2282402497	This wasn’t as brilliant as Vicious was. It definitely suffered from having way too many characters, many of whom I couldn’t care less about. I absolutely adore Victor, Sydney, Mitch, Dom and Dol. I’m also fascinated by Eli. However, I didn’t see the purpose to Marcella, June, and Jonathan’s storylines. I’m interested to see what’ll occur in the next instalment, although I hope that it shan’t take as many years to be released.
1407427062	VENGEFUL? OMG YES-------Three words. MORE VICTOR VALEbye.
2682422584	Algo entre 4 e 4.5.
2707649934	** spoiler alert ** Okay, I didn't dislike this at all. But compared to the 5 full stars I gave Vicious, yes this was a tad disappointing. Also this is a massively spoiler filled review, so back off if you haven't read it. The book just felt a bit empty with regard to the characters. Jonathan for example was there just as an extra character to help Marcella out at times and there just wasn't a chance to connect with him, making him neutral throughout the book - I couldn’t like or dislike him. He definitely could've had a larger purpose. June, who I'm incredibly jealous of her power of shape shifting, was probably my favourite character out of the group of 'villains'. (all the characters are villains really) However she didn't really develop a whole lot either in my opinion and I didn't think she had much reason to want to protect Sydney so much since she met her only once.My main problem was the whole ending? I didn't like the huge build up with Marcella Riggins where I was expecting a huge ending with her character and her being given an actual decent death. You're thinking 'SHE NEARLY KILLED ELI AND HELPED WITH THE COLLAPSE OF THE BALLROOM FLOOR WITH A GLASS DOME WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT??' but it just wasn't... exciting enough?? There were so many scenes about Marcella wanting to become the whole mafia boss and ruler of whatever but she didn't do a whole lot apart from killing the former bosses in one chapter. Her character was used for uninteresting reasons and it’s a pity because she could’ve been phenomenal.Eli was basically in a prison the whole time till the very end and so the scenes with him in were not all that interesting to read about. And we don't find out if Victor solves his problem even after the whole book where he’s searching for a cure. The next book better give some answers.Seems like a whole lot of negatives but there were many things I really did enjoy about this book, the writing especially since it's just as captivating as the first book making me want to read on. It was difficult to put this book down when reaching the end of a chapter.I especially loved the character of Dominic Rusher, a new favourite and bad ass recruit in Victor's crew. I really enjoyed reading his dialogue and I would love for Sydney to bring him back in the next book although it's likely he won't because EON aren't that stupid to leave superhuman bodies lying around :(Also, Stell dies which is pretty cool.3.5 stars.
1453080223	3.5 starsI did like it.I'm not quite sure I liked it as much as the 1st book, though. A lot of dangly stuff at the end, so I'm guessing there will be a 3d book. If not, then...? I don't know. I don't know how I feel about this one.I wasn't bored, though. Very well written.I may have just expected too much. Plus, I went into this thinking that it was a duology, and the endings play such a huge role in my enjoyment books. I'm just one of those readers that has a hard time separating my feelings that way. Honestly, I wish I'd read it before I handed it to my kid. He was so disappointed in the character arc of Victor that he basically said it ruined the first book for him. <--And that probably had an effect on how much I enjoyed this, as well.Jesus. I sound like such a Debbie Downer. Sorry. Ok. So, new characters are introduced, and you get to see what the old ones have been up to. Most of it is good. I suppose that I'll reserve judgment for the (I'm hoping?) next/final book.
4352130782	I know murder is bad and all, but you are sorely mistaken if you think I won't grasp at straws just to defend Victor Vale. And whatever Victor, Sydney, and Mitch have going on, I want it for myself. A family that commits crimes together stays together. Or whatever the saying is.
3532061516	The ending isn’t real, the ending isn’t real, the ending isn’t r-
2358170542	Maybe we are broken. But we put ourselves back together. We survived. That’s what makes us so powerful. And as for family—well, blood is always family, but family doesn’t always have to be blood.Story 🌟🌟🌟🌟Bringing someone back to life always comes with consequences. Victor Vale died. Eli Ever killed him. But staying dead was never the plan. Sydney’s touch, her ability brought him back. But instead of being whole something is missing. Something that makes Victor die again and again. Elliot Cardale had a horrible life full of death and pain. But he never gave up. When he had the chance to become something greater, something “god chosen”, he took it. Only to be trapped in a cell specially made for him. Even though it wasn’t as good as the first one, it was still really good. It was slow, Schwabs books often are, but the characters, the writing, the world building was absolutely perfect. Character 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Victoria Schwab has a talent for creating twisted but likable characters, like Victor Vale (or Holland from Adsom). We know they do bad things, they kill people, hurt people, but the little things Schwab make us fall in love with them. (At least that’s what always happens to me. Oooops)Victor Vale isn’t the same person that Eli killed. He’s weak, dying, searching for a solution to his condition. He’s reckless, ruthless and in the end that makes him do little mistakes. Mistakes that leads EON to him. Eli to him. Eli is a really twisted character. In the first book I hated him like crazy. But after reading about his background I got a little weak. I know that he’s still a fanatic crazy bi***, but in times of darkness and death god was the only way he could cope. After getting his “god chosen” power and killing a few (forty? Fifty?) EOS he gets caught and put into a cage. And the he realizes... he’s not god chosen. But EOS still need to be erased from the earth. And Victor Vale needs to die. And then there were this strong minded badass women I adored. Marcella with the power to ruin everything and everyone around them. June who could turn into every person she touches and Syd (my baby forever) finally grew up. At least in her heart. She’s in her full teens. I loved them all so much! I had so much fun reading about them.World 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟When people die and come back to life we think of it as a second chance. A second chance to live the life you wanted. Change things. Change yourself. But maybe you can’t choose what changes in you. Maybe the world takes something when you come back to life only to give you something different in return. Something powerful, something magical. What you do with the power you get is your own choice. Relationships 🌟🌟🌟🌟If you ask me who’s my favorite enemy pair,I will probably tell you: Victor Vale and Eli Cardale. I know, I know, it was definitely not intended, but I can’t deny that there was this spark, this attraction between them that made me thing that maybe there is more... They were always destined to destroy each other, but even though they saw that there was a possible death for the other one, instead of just accepting it and being satisfied, they saved each other. Because they wanted to kill the other. What a strange thing to do. My absolute favorite thing was the relationship between my favorite chosen-family Victor, Mitch and Syd. Even though their bond was breaking piece by piece with every failure and every step nearer to death they still came back every time to save each other. Writing style 🌟🌟🌟🌟Victoria Schwab is one of the brilliant authors I absolutely adore. Her writing is a little bit slow, but always packed with the most interesting, sometimes twisted character in a world we would want to live in. She has a talent of making us love characters, monsters, killers. This will always be one of my favorite series of all time. Definitely gonna read this again when it comes out in my mother language. ___________________________________________________Hell, yeah! I’m so excited! 🎉
2551617413	“Every end is a new beginning.” I can’t put in words how much I adore these books. I would honestly recommend this to every single person in existence.I read Vicious a couple of days ago. I couldn't control myself and dived into this on the weekend. Victoria Schwab managed to give us the most complex story about Villains there is, and I loved every minute of it!█████████████ Ignorance █████████████Is ███████████████████████████████████████████████ only ███████████████ bliss █████████████████If you █████████████████████████████████████████████ want ███████to █████████████ get ███████████████████ caught ███████████████So, thanks to Sydney, Victor is back but not without consequence. We watch Victor struggle to find a way to fix what went wrong. A lot of failed attempts and the desperation just increases. Victor does a lot of things that could warrant someone to hate him. Truthfully, he is probably my favorite character from these books. It isn't everyday where you read a story from the villains point of view, and I love that Schwab doesn't try to justify what he’s doing.Sydney is quite grown in this one. Maybe not physically, but you can see the differences between when she was thirteen and now. Mitch was as supportive as ever. He helps Victor find EOs that could help, and is constantly worrying about Victor and Sydney.We had a lot of time jumping which was a tad bit confusing, but I got the hang of it after a while. We also switched a lot between characters, and I really enjoyed that aspect. I loved how you could tell the difference between the narration of each character.We got a glimpse of what the past was like for Eli. His upbringing and the troubles he faced. This made me love and hate him all at once, and I don’t think I’ve ever been more confused. Marcella was a new addition to the characters. I especially loved her point of view (aside from Victor of course) she was all kinds of badass. June was also a new face (literally) I admit I didn't really understand why she was so attached to Sydney so much. It got quite annoying after a while, and I wanted nothing more than for Sydney to be with Victor and Mitch. “Marcella sighed. “Men are always so impatient. Perhaps it comes from a lifetime of being given what you want, when you want it. Sometimes, Joseph, you just have to wait.” I really really enjoyed these books. I can only hope that this wont be the last we see of these characters. I would definitely love to see what happens next to them. The story became so much more complex than it was. Another battle for us to decide which side we’re on.|| Blog || Instagram ||
2692689286	I have to say i read Vicious and really liked it but i wasn't blown away, Vengeful however completely bowled me over! Most of my enjoyment came from the fact that i loved these characters, the plot is excellent but its the characters that really make this book. Victor, Eli, Mitch and Sydney are back again however Vengeful also introduces new characters like Marcella. She was incredibly well written and made for an excellent antagonist that you couldn't help but root for, honestly i was obsessed from the get go. 5*s!!
4717284953	I really enjoyed this book! This book continues a few years after the first one left off and continues to follow Eli, Victor, and Sydney. The characters face new challenges and new enemies. I became immersed back into this superhero/villain story full of magic and intrigue on the first back. The pacing was great, although it was a bit slow in the middle. The writing was engaging descriptive, I enjoyed learning about the story from many perspectives. I loved that we were introduced to new abilities and and learned more about the toll that powers can have on extraordinaries. Similar to the last book I enjoyed that the book went back in time to tell the story and moved to the present at the end, it brings a unique perspective to time. I enjoyed being introduced to the new characters in this book and learning about how their past has shaped them. Sydney is my favorite characters, she is brave, helpful, kind and has stayed true to herself and thinks about the consequences of her actions. I liked Victor, but I didn't agree with many of his decisions and how they affect other people. I really like Mitch, he's a good guy, and cares deeply for Victor and Sydney. June and Marcella are both interesting characters, they are both on a mission but they have different personalities as well as powers. I liked the different perspectives that these characters brought and showed how abilities can be used in unique ways. The ending had me on the edge of my seat and there were many revelations, although I did guess one. I hope the story continues, the ending was left open and several aspects of the plot weren't resolved.
1592721653	I am fucking speechless. Vicious is one of my all time favorite books and I was nervous and excited when I heard it was getting a sequel because I was desperately hoping it wouldn't disappoint me. Not only did this book not disappoint me, it blew my expectations right out of the fucking water. This book was SO GOOD. It was action-packed my heart was fucking racing for the entire 490-something pages.Victor Vale is my favorite anti-hero ever. He's just so bad-ass and he doesn't give a fuck, and he totally reminds me of the Joker. I loved the new badass female characters introduced in this book June and Marcella. Their super powers were fucking rad and all the new kinds of powers introduced in this book were really fucking cool and made my fangirl heart die. I loved getting to see flashbacks of how Eli and Victor actually met, and flashbacks of Eli's childhood (I actually felt so much sympathy for Eli like what...?) Eli Ever is one smart motherfucker and he's entertaining as shit to read about.I just absolutely loved every second of this book and I couldn't put it down, I mean I read 450 pages in a day - that's how addicting this story was. V.E. Schwab's writing is just SO GOOD. Her writing is so beautiful and fast paced and clever. The way she write those action sequences felt like watching an epic marvel movie, I just loved it. These characters are just so smart and unique and she understands them and their powers so well. And THAT ENDING.... (view spoiler)[like is there going to be another book??? Because I need one. Victor's story was left wide open for more story and Sydney is going to try to bring Serena back and we didn't found out yet if she is able to. Also, Eli's death was so fucking sad?????? I cried??? I can't believe he's actually dead. But they didn't burn his body so something is telling me maybe he'll be able to come back?? It made me so emo and happy at the same time to see Victor and Eli working together to kill Marcella and Jonathan... MY EMOTIONS!!! The way Victor killed Stell at the end was the most epic badass shit I've ever seen in my life. (hide spoiler)] Ahhhh, I just fucking loved this story and now I'm sad it's over and I need another book now.
7937002585	⁀ ⊹ ₊ While seeking revenge, dig two graves— one for yourself.this book has completely consumed me. when i say i'm obsessed, i mean i need this story injected directly into my bloodstream, downloaded into my brain, so i can literally walk, talk, and breathe this universe. when i finished vengeful, it kinda felt like my own world ended for a bit because it's a fucking lifestyle.‼️‼️ fair warning, besties: this review is gonna contain some serious spoilers. if you haven't read it yet, proceed at your own risk.── ୭ the plot, the anguish, the vibesthe plot picks up right where vicious left off, the beef between victor and eli is still beefing. they are both fueled with even more anger, more rage, and a burning urge to finish each other off. a major new player enters the scene: marcella. she becomes a central figure in the story. after murdering her husband, she sets her sights on ruling the world. she ends up meeting june and jonathan, and together they start gathering other EOs to join her cause.on the other side, victor is basically a walking disaster. he's hunting for EOs who can cure his constant pain and dying-and-coming-back-to-life situation. if they can't help, well, he ends up killing them because his unstable powers are just that destructive. it's a sad, brutal quest for survival and a cure.and then eli, who's basically chained to EON and working alongside the despicable stell to find EOs. his only goal in life at this point is to escape EON and, you guessed it, finally kill victor.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Maybe we are broken. But we put ourselves back together. We survived. That’s what makes us so powerful. And as for family—well, blood is always family, but family doesn’t always have to be blood.── ୭ characters𖣠 victor valemy problematic fave. he hits DIFFERENT. after getting, resurrected at the end of vicious, mans went through it. seriously went through it. he’s basically respawning constantly, dealing with this insane overload of pain and electricity that just obliterates him over and over again. it's rough, and he even ends up killing some EOs who can't help him heal. but the growth? the redemption arc? it’s a-fucking-mazing. he actually realizes he messed up, he’s trying to fix things, and my heart just melts for him. he’s not a good guy, but he's trying. victor vale, i literally love you so much, gahhhhh. i just wanna give him a huge hug and tell him it’s gonna be okay, even though it's clearly not. he's got layers, like an onion, but instead of making me cry from cutting, he made me cry from emotional chaos.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Pain, Victor had learned, turned people into animals.𖣠 marcella riggingsHOLY FUUCKKKKK. marcella is a force of nature. a literal queen, a capital-M MOTHER, and a total badass. if you wanna see female rage personified, marcella understood the assignment. she was marcus's wife (a mob boss) and when he decides to kill her, she doesn’t just die. oh no, she comes back, and she is more dangerous than ever. her power is insane. she can ruin anything she touches. it looks like things are burning when she touches them, but actually, they're eroding. walls crumble. people don’t fare so well lol. she's got this burning ambition, and this unapologetic desire for power, and i stan. no matter what shit stuff she did, i was rooting for her. every. single. time. her transformation from mob wife to vengeance fueled empress is just chef's kiss.⁀ ⊹ ₊ How many men would she have to turn to dust before one took her seriously?𖣠 eliot cardalehe’s still obsessed with victor, still fueled by that rivalry, but he also suffers a LOT. he goes through the wringer. it's so bad that he ends up working side by side with officer stell (more on that guy later) to find the EOs. please didn't deserve to die here! what the fuck. i was annoyed with him, but his ending just felt wrong. he was so close to figuring out his own path, maybe even finding some peace, and then sike. he's complex, he's flawed, but this still makes him kinda compelling.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Once upon a time, when the marks on his back were still fresh, Eli told himself that he was growing wings. After all, his mother thought Eli was an angel, even if his father said he had the devil in him.𖣠 sydney clarkei love her sooooo much. she deserves the whole world and the biggest, warmest hugs from me. in this book, she really steps up. she becomes even more badass, using her powers with more confidence, but she also carries this heavy weight of responsibility, feeling like she brought victor back to life in a broken state. she has a moral compass, and loyalty, and she’s just trying to do what’s right in a world full of messy, morally gray people. protect sydney at all costs!⁀ ⊹ ₊ I don't want to survive. I want to thrive.𖣠 mitchell turnermitch becomes so much better in this book, an absolute ray of sunshine and loyalty in victor’s fucked up life. he's always there, always trying to fix things, always trying to keep victor from spiraling too hard. he's not an EO, but his steadfastness and his own quiet strength make him just as powerful as anyone with a wild ability. i love to see it!⁀ ⊹ ₊ It doesn’t matter if you’re a human versus a human or a human versus an EO or an EO versus an EO. You do what you can. You fight, and you win, until you don’t.𖣠 junejune here is a bit of a mystery, kept somewhat in the shadows, and my heart breaks for her because her death was truly tragic. and yes, all men are dogs. she can shapeshift and take anyone's form. the wildest part is that she can't be truly killed because if someone harms her shapeshifted body, the original body is harmed instead. so she's technically unkillable in her true form until she isn't. she was so loyal, protective, especially towards sydney, and her story deserved more.⁀ ⊹ ₊ One body doesn't draw much notice. The trouble is when they start adding up.── ୭ my thoughts and overviewthis entire story is just drenched in female rage and meticulously crafted revenge. it’s beautiful, it’s brutal, it’s everything. victor, marcella, and eli are the three pillars holding this whole fucked up masterpiece together. none of them are heroes. all three of them are fucked in the head. they are all villains, or at least deeply anti heroic figures, each with their own personal vendettas and messed up motivations. their characters are written so beautifully, so richly, that even though they're doing objectively terrible things, i couldn’t help but root for them all. the morally gray scale is just off the charts hehe.now, let's talk about the elephant in the room: the ending. this is where most readers are either hot or cold, and honestly, i have a fierce love and hate relationship with it. because yes, victor is successful in eliminating eli. my jaw dropped. the gasp i gusped. this part really pissed me off, but at the same time, it was the whole point of the story, wasn't it? eli was supposed to die for the narrative to make sense, for the cycle to continue or break in its own messed up way lol.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Every end may be a new beginning, but every beginning had to end.despite my immediate rage, i think the ending was very much chaotic, impactful, and unforgettable. it had me staring at a wall for like, five minutes straight, just processing. it was done so incredibly well, so brutally, that now i need book 3 immediately, like yesterday. my brain is still trying to compute. the drama, the angst, the trauma it inflicted on me as a reader. v.e. schwab truly cooked here. it was messed up but made sense in its own twisted way, leaving me yearning for more answers, more chaos, and more of these unforgettable characters. i'm not okay, but i also wouldn't have it any other way.
5753794576	and to think all of this could have been avoided if two sociopathic murderers just admitted they had feelings for each other…
2403332706	Okay, I thought about it, and my review is staying the same. I feel guilty because I know why so many people love this book and I hate coming across as a downer, but this book just didn't satisfy me the same way Vicious did. The first three quarters were great, I was expecting to give it five stars. Marcella and June were incredible additions to the cast, but the ending--it just left me unfulfilled.
6216151561	if I didn’t know this series is getting a third book, I would’ve been ???? at the ending.
3289666580	Its unfortunate that so much of what I loved about Vicious went out the window in Vengeful. While some elements remained undeniably enjoyable, this re-read ultimately highlighted the flaws I blew by due to my excitement the first time around. “Ignorance is only bliss if you want to get caught.” [ #1 ] The cast from Vicious changed in ways I’m not entirely fond of (except for Eli, who in my opinion became additionally complex and intriguing). Victor Vale went from a badass morally grey anti-hero, to a much more cruel protagonist without reasonable motive for his actions. It pained me to have such a personally beloved character taken down a notch, but I still adore him as a villain. Sydney also got on my nerves; her emotional complex surrounding Serena quickly became tedious (and franky, frustrating). Mitch remained his lovely self, but was hardly present. I wish there was more of him! “Maybe we are broken. But we put ourselves back together. We survived. That’s what makes us so powerful. And as for family—well, blood is always family, but family doesn’t always have to be blood.” [ #2 ] No new conflict is established between protagonists until around the halfway point. Before that, Vengeful is comprised mainly of backstory upon backstory upon backstory—some of which I enjoyed, other bits not so much. The incite into Eli’s past, for example, was near perfection; it provided readers with an understanding of why he became the way he is without completely redeeming his character. On the contrary, Marcella’s backstory went downhill as the novel progressed; I was anxious for her to get her revenge, but it came very early on (after which Marcella became a psycho, justifying murder of innocents under the guise of feminism (also why June is easily my favourite of her trio)).[ #3 ] The plot and structuring didn’t flow as nicely as I remembered. Part of what made Vicious so enticing to me was Schwab’s graceful use of a non-linear timeline. That element was a lot weaker in Vengeful, partially due to the significant increase in main characters (thus leaving more past events to cover).────── {⋆★⋆} ──────Despite everything, there were numerous things I still loved about Vengeful. For one, the last few chapters are brilliantly written, with exhilarating action and shocking twists delivered in plenty. Schwab’s diction is excellent as always, which is why I find myself consistently drawn to her stories. Although this was a bit of a let down, I know I’ll be reading book 3, and hopefully loving the hell out of it. Victor, Sydney and Mitch are too good to miss out on!
3930212367	i was expecting not to like this one as much as the first but everything about it ramped up the intensity enough for it to be so so loved by me. the stakes were higher and while we mainly focused on victor in the first book, the characters in this one were amazingly complex and new pov’s gave us an outside perspective of victor’s descent into the villainy he despised in the first book and added so much to the story.
1527436823	⇢ 4 / 5 Oh my, Vengeful was quite a ride; although not as entertaining as Vicious, it did not disappoint and was truly worth the wait.*This review will contain spoilers, here and there, so read at your own risk!*When I heard Schwab was writing a sequel to Vicious, I was enthralled (to say the least). I couldn’t wait to learn more about Victor and Eli; to read more from a favorite author... add that to Vicious being one of my favorite novels and you can hopefully picture how exited I was.That being said, even though I liked this installment, I wish more could have been expanded on in certain areas and less in others… (Unless there is a book three coming out? Then I’d understand the vague areas; however, I haven’t heard anything). For one, we never learn more about Victor’s past, which was upsetting. He’s very much a “here and now” character. I would have liked to learn more about his life before meeting Eli—after all, Victor has his own demons, too.Which leads me to Eli—one of my favorite characters, ever. Well, he was in Vicious. There’s just so much depth to him. However, in this installment, I felt like his character wavered in certain areas. Of course, I realize this is Schwab’s character, but there were various moments were I felt certain Eli was turning a new leaf; that he no longer wanted to kill Victor; that Victor and Eli would reconcile. And maybe that was a little ambitious of me to hope for… but that’s what I felt. He's just so broken and misunderstood, I wish he could have healed somehow—(view spoiler)[but no, he had to get himself shot and killed. (hide spoiler)]Sydney and Mitch were amazing, as usual. Both characters felt real, and I loved seeing the relationship bloom between the two of them. They felt like a family. Warm and trusting.New characters introduced were decent, but a little overdone. Marcella’s character was odd (but pretty kick-butt). Her personality seemed different in the beginning (before her near-death) to her time as an EO. I found it hard to believe that because her husband tried to kill her, it prompted her to turn into a killing-machine. I understand why she hates men—but wanting to lead the mob and “take over the world” or whatever, seems a little much. Then again, I guess she was delusional; June seemed to think so.June was quite a mystery, not only because of her shapeshifting ability, but because we never really learn much about her—other than her strange need to protect Sydney. I wish more was revealed about her. Only that would take away from the whole “mystery” surrounding her character. What a shame. Maybe in book three? (Come on, Schwab…please?).Overall, this novel was worth the wait. Were there things I wished could have been added and taken out? Yeah, but that doesn’t mean this book isn’t amazing! It still is. Schwab still impresses with her killer story and writing skills. Seriously. I cringed so much when Eli was being tortured (that poor boy). Great, great story. Believable broken characters. Flawless writing. Hoping for a book three!
2205978627	Every end may be a new beginning, but every beginning had to end. It was worth the wait. This is by far V.E. Schwab best work. So far I've read three series by her, this book even surpassed ADSOM, that was kinda sorta too predictable. “Sometimes it feels like I’m in a fight, and all I’ve got are my hands, and the other guy has a knife. But that guy with the knife, eventually he’s going to face someone with a gun. And the one with the gun is going to go up against someone with a bomb. The truth is, Syd, there will always be somebody stronger than you. That’s just the way the world works.” There is more than enough action in this, abundance of gray characters, loyalty, great plot etc.The writing is perfect, multiple POVs of different characters, I love the way they all came together, I have to admit I didn't like reading the POVs of the new characters at first. Just like the first its also written in third person multiple POVs.The characters in this book will make you question why you are good, that is if you are actually a good person.My favourite still remains Victor Vale, Victor is not a good person, he kills without remorse and will not loose sleep over the action, the good thing about him is that he doesn't go around killing people without reason just those that are a threat to him. The best thing about Victor Vale is that he knows he is a bad person, and don't bother looking for a reason for his reasons.Sydney Clarke is Victor's adopted daughter, she has the power to bring the dead back to life.She loves Victor fiercely and would do anything for him.Mitch is Victor's bff whether Victor likes it or not. Mitch is great with computer and can hack anything which always come in handy. Loyalty is Mitch's middle name.Eli Ever aka Elliot Cardale is a self righteous bastard that believes all EOs deserved to be dead, he makes it his life mission to KILL THEM ALL.Marcella Riggins is a new EO, got her powers when she was almost murdered. She came back with a bang.June is a shapeshifter with an ulterior motive, but I love her all the same.Stell the cop that put Victor in jail that first time is also here and many others that am too lazy to list.
1992515668	no. fucking. way. P.S. I highly recommend listening to Run by AWOLNATION while reading bc it’s a PERFECT theme for this book UPDATE: apparently there’s a 5 years long time skip between book 1 and book 2 wHAT AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAis it september yet?
6410289972	woooooow, to było rozczarowującetutaj mówię dlaczego: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GVfUJ...
2518909932	I loved coming back to Victor, Eli, Serena, and Mitch, but the story expands its scope to include a lot of new characters too, all of which were really fun and interesting even if I didn't necessarily cheer for them. V.E. Schwab has a special gift to know exactly what kinds of people I like reading about - morally gray men and Girls With Swords (not a literal sword this time, but still) - and just consistently delivers. Marcella and June were so good. I think the choice to veer a little bit away from Victor's crew was a risky choice because he's so well-loved, but it ultimately paid off in the expansion of the world and the introduction of those fantastic new characters. I think the first book in this series could easily be mistaken for YA, but this one definitely felt more adult. That line is toed really well, with some of the more gruesome scenes being visceral and movie-like without feeling gratuitous. I can't remember the last time I lost sleep because I couldn't put a book down, but I finished the last 150 pages or so in a day, which I practically never do anymore. I don't think there's going to be a book 3, but I didn't think there was going to be a book 2 at first either? So there's always hope. The ending isn't open-ended, exactly, but it does leave some room for expansion in the future while still being satisfying for now. PLEASE read this book if you haven't.
4103011873	5⭐Que puedo decir de esta duologia de libros... ME ENCANTARON.El mundo es increíble con una trama intrigante y personajes buenísimos.Cada uno de los personajes y capitulos te hacía dudar de que lado estabas aunque no había un lado bueno estaba el lado malo y el peor.Siento que la rivalidad de Eli y Victor fue lo que se me hacía más emocionante debido a que veías los pensamientos de cada uno. El cliché de "encontrar una familia" le da el toque. Los pasados de cada personaje son UF LO MEJOR. Ame a todos los personajes, Victor, Sydney, Mitch y como no Dol tienen un espacio en mi corazón PARA SIEMPRE. POR FAVOR VICTORIA DAME UN TERCER LIBRO SINO NO SOBREVIVO SI QUERÉS HACE SAGA PERO POR DIOS SEGUÍ CON ESTOOOOO. EL FINAL NO TE LO PERDONO.La mejor bilogia que leí, sin lugar a dudas.
2018142022	“You do what you can. You fight, and you win, until you don’t.”BRILLIANT. AMAZING. PERFECTION. THE BEST! I’m so in love with Victoria Schwab. RTC**I just received my signed preorder copy more than one week before its release date!!! That has never happened to me before I am so excited to read it ahhh
1917578623	WHAT A COVER. MY WIG WAS SNATCHED my favorite book in the entire universe is getting a sequel ????? HOLY SHIT I DO NOT HAVE WORDS
4125130286	*increasing my rating from 2 to 3 stars because i realized it isn’t such a disaster (and i’m nice)*my heart is broken. my soul is torn to pieces. my mind is wrecked.let me be clear: i absolutely love the previous book and it’s one of my favorites of this year. i gave it 5 stars, which is very rare for me, so i was obviously looking forward to read this one.honestly it wasn’t that bad. it was bad only compared to the first part.it started well, the first chapters were great and it had an interesting idea and concept. the problem came when the story began to focus more on new characters whom i didn’t care at all. i needed more victor, mitch and sydney.so yeah, this sequel shouldn’t exist, i would be happy enough if vicious was stand alone.and now excuse me. i need to scream.AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA———————————————reading updatei’m actually depressed that i’m pausing it because i love the previous part, but now i need something fast paced. then i will return to this book, i promise.
6906373030	not bad, enjoyable but not as good as the first one
6887885090	So hear me out- I didn’t love this how I loved the first book, but it was still really good. ~4 Stars~”They never seem to realize. We’re the power behind the throne.” .·:*¨༺ My Thoughts ༻¨*:·. Phew, VE Schwab can WRITE characters. I’m utterly impressed. Not only did we get more of my loves Victor, Mitch, and Sydney, we also get introduced to two really intriguing characters- Marcella and June. ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ First, Marcella was such a badass and I loved every second she spent on the page. Her character was smart, strong, calculating and damn if I wouldn’t let her lead. She, as a woman who wants power and to stand in the light, was the perfect contrast to Victor, who wants nothing more than to live in the shadows. I loved her and I loved this dynamic. We also get a continuation of Victor and Eli’s particular dynamic from the first book. I liked this a little less comparatively even though it was one of the main focuses. I’m not a huge fan of Eli but I did enjoy the way their story comes to a close (mostly).˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➳❥ Then there’s June. She was a pretty fascinating character in her own right. We don’t really get a huge backstory from her but she adds a certain wild card element to a lot of the action. She’s mysterious and versatile and I never could pinpoint what she was going to do. As with the first book, I still loved the found family dynamic here. Even though Victor, Mitch and Sydney could’ve split ways after the events of the first book, they chose not to and throughout this book that bond solidifies. I especially loved seeing the importance of their family unit through Syd’s perspective. That being said, I think June was a strange disruption to the found family unit- but I didn’t dislike her addition necessarily? On one hand, she gave it a little more depth and meaning but on the other, I didn’t really understand her motivations. I guess I wanted more from her and I’m hoping there IS a third book to flesh out her character more??Anyway, this book kept me hooked just the same as the first one. The alternating timeline works and kept the mystery alive. Now that I’ve read both Vicious and Vengeful, I can safely say that I love VES’s writing and I WILL be picking up more of her books in the future. Maybe Addie LaRue next?? .·:*¨༺ Quotes ༻¨*:·. “Perhaps she was glass. But glass is only brittle until it breaks. Then it’s sharp.””Maybe we are broken. But we put ourselves back together. We survived. That’s what makes us so powerful. And as for family—well, blood is always family, but family doesn’t always have to be blood.”“How many men would she have to turn to dust before one took her seriously?”“She was done playing by other people’s rules. Done hiding. If you lived in the dark, you died in the dark. But stand in the light, and it was that much harder to make you disappear.”︵‿︵‿︵‿︵‿︵‿︵‿︵⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚ Pre-read. ˚୨୧⋆｡˚ ⋆Things have been so hectic the last few days but I finally have a moment to start this! Excited to have more Victor Vale in my life. 😍🖤Also, this is a trilogy? Hello? I thought it was only a duology!
2744899943	So at this point I’m pretty sure that Schwab is a goddess disguised in human form because everything she writes is so damn beautiful and flawless! I’m convinced that she has reached down into my soul and discovered exactly what I love to read about and takes pleasure in destroying me with each book she writes. This book is dark and gritty and gruesome and I lapped up and adored every damn second of it. There are no heroes here, everyone is a villain and it’s absolutely freaking fantastic! And please don’t ask me if I love Eli or Victor more because I absolutely can’t decide. They’re both delicious and I adore them both!
2531556529	While I enjoyed every single thing that happened in this novel, the lack of a star is due to needing more. This book was better than book 1 for many reason, but it also lacked so much! It was so hard to rate this between a five and four starts I literally needed to take a full day to decide...Review to come
2568942829	"To think that, in a way, the two of them were working together again. Like old times - or like they could have been, perhaps." The quote above has to be one of my favorite quotes of the book. It was just so...beautiful. It showed what could've happened if some events of Vicious never happened. But, alas, Victor and Eli had to be enemies. Vengeful picks up where Vicious left off, but it introduces new characters, new problems. I honestly had no idea where the book was going for 99.9% of the book. I knew that there had to be SOME final 'fight' scene or something, but I had no idea how that fight would come about, or who would win. This book definitely kept me on the edge of my seat. Victor and Eli play a big role in this book. We see how they are doing after the events of Vicious take place. We get to see the consequences of what happened in Vicious. Victor is dealing with something that he hadn't been expecting, and Eli is dealing with his faith faltering and other things that occurred while he has been in prison. However, Victor and Eli are very much still themselves- their personalities do not suddenly shift in this book - they stay in character. Part of me wishes that Victor had been in this book more, but I feel like his storyline may have gotten repetitive if Schwab just focused on his journey. When Victor is focused on in the book though, we get to delve into his thoughts even more, and learn about his sexuality. I loved how we got to see how Victor grew and changed after the events in the last book. Now, let's focus on Eli. Eli's backstory is finally discussed. Eli's childhood was awful...just awful. While that doesn't excuse his actions, I started to feel empathy towards him, which was something I did not expect going into the book. And after learning what happened to him while he was imprisoned...I felt even more empathy towards him. Now, I still didn't like Eli, but I definitely felt empathy towards the guy. I was thrilled to see that Mitch, Sydney, and Dominic were in this book, too. We also get introduced to several new characters in this book: Marcella, Jonathan, and June. Each of these characters are strong in their own way. Among these three, I'd have to say Marcella was my favorite. She was independent, strong, and wasn't afraid to stick up for herself. The plot of the book was good - very good. I had no idea where it was going. Although I didn't like how the ending was open-ended, I feel like the story couldn't have been tied neatly in a little bow. I feel like if it had a 'clear-cut' ending, it would've been a disservice to the story. And, it wouldn't have seemed very realistic. Of course, the writing was great. The writing sucked me into the story and did not let me leave until I read the last page of the book. ALSO! THE WAY THE BOOK WAS BROKEN UP: Genesis, Resurrection, Revelation, Ascension, Judgment Day. When I realized how the book was broken up, it made me think: WOW THIS GOES WITH THE WHOLE RELIGIOUS ASPECT OF ELI'S CHARACTER. And it also perfectly summed up each part of the story...so yeah. I just thought that it was a brilliant little tidbit in the book. While the book had several strong points, it had a few weaknesses. I also think that Victor should have been in the story just a bit more. While the other characters were important, I just wish Victor was in the story more. Finally, I wish that Victor's new plan at the end of the story would have been elaborated. I understand that maybe an elaboration is unneeded, but I still would've liked to know what his plan was. (But maybe that isn't important? Maybe the fact that he had hope after not having hope in ages is what is important.) Edit: 11/05: So, it's the day after finishing the book, and I still have conflicting emotions about this book. I think it's because I just want MORE. I feel like we should have a third book where Sydney is trying to look for Victor. And I think that's why I struggle to rate this book...I keep thinking about what happens after the events in Vengeful. However, strictly thinking just about Vengeful, I decided to bump up my rating to 4.7. It was a really good book, but it didn't quite hit the 5 star mark. It was close to it, yes, but it just fell a little short. Edit (11/26/2018): I still love this book, but I just had to bump down the rating a bit. It's still a great book, but I feel like the new rating more accurately sums up how much I enjoyed it. (And really, the 4.55 is me just saying: This didn't QUITE make it to a 5-star read, but it was still really good.) Rating: 4.55/5 First thoughts after reading : I...I don't know.I don't even know how to rate this. Like. I didn't LIKE how it ended just because it wasn't what I WANTED, but it was fantastically done. So. Yeah.(And guess what, just like Vicious, I'm crying again.) Review to come (and the rating may change. I need to process first.)
2748919451	4.5Mind : blownBreathing : stoppedLife : ruinedI have a special compartment for anti-heros in my heart and this book had quite a few of them so it should come as no surprise that I relished this book more than life, and I am eagerly waiting for the next one. I have no words to confess my love for this series and all characters in it. Every character in this book was so well developed, or should I say well corrupted? Rotten? I loved how they swung, back and forth, on the continnum of black and white. Their questionable morality and bad decisions, when faced with a impossible situation, made them realistic and utterly human. Victor's was a badass but his bravado didn't render him invincible; it made him reckless and more prone to failure, which I think is a cost associated with badassery. It was very realistic and believable. The scenes that Victor, Sydney and Mitch shared together were my absolute favourites.SynopsisThe book take place 5 years after the event of the first book. We find Victor, Sydney and Mitch on the run from the EONs all the while trying to figure out the weird mutation taking place inside Victor. When Sydney revived him in the last book, he came back broken, and now he keeps dying and coming back more broken every time. His condition is escalating quickly. Victor and the team figures out that only an EO with the healing power can help his extraordinary condition, but that would mean exposing that Victor is alive, which is something that they can't afford. Eli is still in the prison but he is not the same guy he was before. When he was captured by the EON, he was sent to the lab where a scientist experimented on him and broke him. He is now working with the EON in suicide squad fashion.We meet two new characters: Marcella, a woman who can turn things to ashes with her touch, and June, a shape shifting voodoo doll. These two set things in motion that bring Victor and Eli in the same spot once again. ONCE upon a time, when the marks on his back were still fresh, Eli told himself that he was growing wings. After all, his mother thought Eli was an angel, even if his father said he had the devil in him. A peak into Eli's troubled childhood helped me in understanding his motives and hatred towards the EOs and made me a little more sympathetic towards him. It was really heartbreaking, and I hope I am not the only one who wanted Victor and Eli to patch up and go back to being bros? Perhaps she was glass. But glass is only brittle until it breaks. Then it’s sharp. I always love reading about strong female characters and this one had at least two of them. MARCELLA was a force to be reckoned with, even if she got a little stupid and annoying by the end of the book. JUNE was an enigma and the only character with no proper backstory. She was unassailable with her powers that were far more superior than that of Marcella's so it made no sense when she genuflected before Marcella instead of taking her down and replacing her. I want to know more about her and her intentions. I hope there's another book in the works 'cos I have so many questions not only about June but about Victor as well. I still don't know what to make of the cryptic message Victor left for us in end.V.E. SCHWAB is definitely an ExtraOrdinary and her superpower is to torture us with her writing and cliffhangers. One thing that failed this book to land on my All-time favourite list was the lack of Victor and Eliot. If I could change one thing, I would add more of Victor and Eliot and shorten the side plots. I am pretty sure I am not the only one who feel this way.Anyway, it was still a pretty solid read, and I had several NDE experiences throughout the book. Ms. Schwab, you have ruined my life. I blame you completely.PS: There is secret message in my review. 😏 My thoughts on Vicious
2547325299	Vengeful is a top notch novel. It is the fastest novel I've read. I started it and I didn't stop till I'd read everything. The novel is action packed. The novel is extraordinary.
5007428127	i was hoping for a victor & eli kiss but oh well.
2405407096	-- Supposed to be a Buddy Read with the lovelies Hannah and Bree -- “Maybe we are broken. But we put ourselves back together. We survived. That’s what makes us so powerful. And as for family—well, blood is always family, but family doesn’t always have to be blood.” FORMAT READ: Audiobook (Recommended) via: LibbySIMILAR VIBES: A Darker Shade of Magic & The Seven Husbands of Evelyn HugoREAD FOR: thought-provoking story and complicated characters (anti-heroes)READING LEVEL: Level 3-4 out of 5tw // suicide, harm*All of my reviews are as spoiler-free as possible-spoilers are marked* BASIC PLOT: Read only if you have finished Vicious: (view spoiler)[In this book after Victor is revived by Sydney, he doesn't come back 100% like before. Mitch, Sydney, and Victor move around to try to find a cure for victor but encounter... problems. New characters are introduced (that I honestly liked). While Eli, on the other hand, gets captured and helps a certain EO hunting agency to trach down other EOs. (hide spoiler)]as usual, v.e. schwab does not fail to amaze me, especially as a character-driven biased person, I fall in love with her characters every time. I was so immersed in the story as usual and I love that I can always count on V.E. Schwab to do this to me.First of all: JUNE, MARCELA, AND SYDNEY QUEENS!!I live for the feminism in this book and how well they were projected like UGHHH I have no words. They were so interesting to me and and I could read a whole book about them only (which maybe was what should’ve been done? oops). The character dynamics especially with Sydney and Mitch make me so soft inside though, I’m glad we got to see more of that. “He didn’t know how he was broken, but he just wanted to fix it” guys, eli. ELI. He’s the anti hero of the anti-hero but I can never get myself to hate him. In fact, I love him guys. He just wants to be happy and not feel broken. I don’t know how else to keep this spoiler-free without mentioning more but just know that.Even though I loved the characters I can’t help but criticize the plot because everything happened the was I thought it would and nothing really surprised me in terms of the plot. Although, I did enjoy it a whole lot and it was nowhere near bad... It was just predictable. Especially compared to Vicious heheIf you have ever read any V.E. Schwab book, I think you can agree with me that she has a very unique mood in her writing. A little bit dark, but still captivating and endearing in a way. Her writing style is still one of my favourites.Honestly, I’m really sad we got less of the magical realism element here. It took a different approach as compared to Vicious and that’s probably why most people were disappointed. Especially with Victor and Eli, we got less time with them and given this is a sequel for their story I guess I just wanted more of them. I didn’t even really realize it until I finished the book so yeah… it just depends on what your expectations are going in. CHARACTERS: ✦✦✦✦✦ PLOT: ✦✦✦✧✧ WRITING STYLE: ✦✦✦✦✦ WORLD BUILDING: ✦✦✦✦✧ THEMES: ✦✦✦✦✦ PAGE TURNER: ✦✦✦✦✦a lot of people said that they didn’t enjoy this book as much probably because they were comparing it to vicious. Since it’s been at least a year since I read Vicious this probably lessened my prejudice going into the story. Although, I couldn't help but wish for more magical realism after I finished reading and compare it to Vicious so hehe. I mean it is the sequel. I still feel like something was missing for me in the end… I wanted a closure that I didn’t get (kind of).At the end of the day, I really did enjoy this book and I would recommend it. Just don’t go into it expecting another Vicious since it leaned more on the crime side. I seriously need a live action version of this NOW.VILLAINS SERIES REVIEWSBook #1 : Vicious ★★★★★Book #2 : Vengeful ★★★★★["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2021240696	** spoiler alert ** Ok, so anyone that even remotely knows me knows I am a MASSIVE Victoria Schwab fan and she did NOT disappoint me with this awesome book. It is such a perfect continuation of this story. Victor Vale continues to be one of my favourite characters ever and his condition was done so, so well. The build-up, the anticipation of knowing it was coming and being totally powerless to stop it, the countdown to a final, irreversible death was felt with every single Victor focused line. His motivation was so strong and clear, not just to save his own life but to be there for Sydney. He may not show it well, but God does that man care about that kid! He is a cold, ruthless, bastard, badass but never doubt that Sydney and Mitch are his family and he would do anything to protect them. I loved Sydney in this. I loved seeing her grow up and he dealing with the lose of her sister. It was a driving force behind her wanting to work on her power but I think it was more to do with what happened with Victor and her guilt for bringing him back “wrong”. Seeing her latch on to June as a kind of replacement sister was a little bit heart breaking. She had been so used to having this older female figure in her life and even though Mitch and Victor are her family now and she loves them, it’s missing something and she tries to fill that gap with June. June is a really interesting character. I feel there is so much more to her we didn’t explore in this book and I’m hoping we get a book three so we can delve into it more. There has to be more of a reason that she felt so compelled to protect Sydney. I seriously loved this take on the on the shapeshifter power as well. It wasn’t just a copy it was more like borrowing a living costume. By constantly wearing someone else’s skin, she has made herself invulnerable. Marcella is of course, an amazing character. A woman that has been treated like nothing more than a trophy when she more cunning and power driven than any of the males in her life. I loved her power. The way her desire for revenge gave her the power to destroy anything. It would have been easy to give her the power of fire due to the way she died, but her anger overrode that and it was perfect for her. So beautiful but so destructive. Right up until she threated Victor, Sydney and Mitch, I was totally on her side!! I wanted her to take over Merit and run the whole world. Eli is a character I love to hate. I seriously think he is amazing character and we are treated to so much awesome backstory. I loved seeing the development of the kid he was and how he became the man he is. He’s just such an arrogant, self-righteous prick! I want him to stay dead but I seriously doubt he’s gone for good! Oh and was I surprised he murdered his father? Nope. In fact, it’s one of the only murders he’s committed that I was fully behind him on. Mitch continued to be a little diamond of a character, always there in the background but without him things fall apart. I was really sad that Dominic didn’t make it. He was such a great character and turned out to be so important to the plot of Vengeful. I am however, glad that Victor finally got his revenge on Stell. I get what he was trying to do. But by treating every EO as a criminal, he was failing to understand the potential they possessed and alienating a whole group of people. He was just adding to the problem. He was just such a hypocrite too! He had a known EO in his own ranks who he gave a pass because of who she was and what she could do!One of my favourite books of the year and I think I might have even enjoyed it more than Vicious!! ***********************She's only gone and bloody done it again!!! I really, really hope there is a book three! RTC
1973353558	Sooo it's been a couple of weeks since I read this and I cannot stop thinking about it but sadly not in a good way.I'm realizing more and more that I just wasn't quite satisfied with this overall and I just cannot give this 5 stars. I appreciate how hard V worked on this and that she wrote what she thought was the best version. But it just didn't quite hit that level for me. And I just feel genuinely so UNSATISFIED with the ending.. it took me a little while to process all of this (reading this in one day was A LOT) but some of it almost felt rushed and the fact that basically every character's storyline is so open-ended.. meh.Trigger warnings for suicide, self-harm, parental abuse, domestic abuse, violence, physical abuse.♦ Booktube Channel ♦ Twitter ♦ Instagram ♦
1717627342	. : ☾⋆ — 5 ★ READ THIS REVIEW ON MY BLOG!!!https://bit.ly/2xZwbXl“Run, thought Victor, and he could see the response in Eli’s coiled frame.Chase me.”this is how i die. this is how Victoria Schwab finally kills me. i’m actually speechless. i’m not even remotely exaggerating when i say that this book—or this series, more accurately—is probably the most thrilling, powerful, intense and profoundly brilliant piece of media i’ve ever consumed. i can’t imagine my life without these books. actually, a part of me truly believes i was put on this earth precisely to do two things: 1. read this series, and 2. SCREAM FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE ABOUT THIS SERIES, CONSTANTLY AND ALWAYS AT THE VERY TOP OF MY LUNGS. i don’t know how to express my love for this book or its characters. the absolute brutality, the NERVE that is shown in the complexity of these characters, down to the very minor ones, is just astounding. morality does not have a place in this universe, nor does justice. who are you supposed to root for? everyone? no one? is evil justified, as long as the person behind it vindicates it in their eyes? vindicates it in YOUR eyes? who is truly the villain? HOW IS THIS BOOK SO HARROWINGLY BRILLIANT???? HOW ARE THESE CHARACTERS SO DISTRESSINGLY GLORIOUS???truly the thing that absolutely MURDERS me about this book is that Victoria wrote it, handed it in, and then REWROTE THE ENTIRE THING FROM SCRATCH!!!! IN A MATTER OF MONTHS!!! AND SHE DID THIS WHILE WRITING, OUTLINING AND RELEASING, LIKE, FIFTEEN OTHER BOOKS. AND SHE NEVER FALTERS. NEVER WAVERS. this woman and her incredible, INSANELY enviable brain have never and will never cease to amaze me. i really don’t know what to say, you guys. Vicious is my favorite book in the entire world and i was SO nervous about Vengeful, but it was everything i wanted and more. i could rave about this book for the rest of my life (and i probably will) but right now i just want to lie down and stare at the ceiling and think about this book. forever and ever.
2233457947	1.5 ★★ «I’m running out of lives» Review in English | Reseña en español (abajo)I would love to live in a world where Vengeful had never been published. Vicious was one of my best readings of the year and probably one of my favourite books of all time, and as standalone it worked perfectly well. Vicious was complex, dark, and twisted –you can read my review in here to know how much I liked it–, and it had a really goooood ending. Saying that, Vengeful was one of my most anticipated releases of 2018 and I had really high expectations on this novel, and maybe because of that (and also due to all the hype and marketing work about this), I’m utterly disappointed. I honestly think that this story needn’t a second instalment. And less a third one.Vengeful has a similar structure to Vicious: it starts off 5 years prior and races towards the climax at the present day, and although it wasn’t as mind-blowing as in the previous novel (since it now doesn’t feel original), it’s a narrative resource I liked. We still have a different intertwining third-person narrator POVs (Victor, Eli, Sydney, Mitch, Dom, Marcella, June… and on) but this time I felt quite overwhelmed by the amount of new POVs and characters.For me, the flattest part of the novel was the plot. We have none. At the start of this novel, Victor asks himself ”What now?”, and he never finds an answer. I was hoping to have more of him in this book but, truth to be told, his plot line is so weak that it would be terribly boring if he had more pages in the novel. But at least in that case I would have been more invested in the story –and especially through the second part of the novel, where I was bored to tears–. «Once upon a time, when the marks on his back were still fresh, Eli told himself that he was growing wings.» So, in general we only have a bunch of unrelatable characters with flat motivations going and running around. I liked knowing about Eli’s past, but I wasn’t as moved as I’d expected –and we also have a loose subplot in there, but I understand it could be interesting to develop in a third book?–. Although I was immediately hooked by the new character Marcella’s opening chapter, as the book went on I started to lose interest in her as well, and through her POV I was just rolling my eyes. She’s a villain with a flat motivation (she only seeks power) and I was expecting more –this whole review could be summed up with 'I was expecting more of everything during the whole reading'– and especially a well-thought-out interaction with Victor and Eli. «How many men would she have to turn to dust before one took her seriously?» Another character with whom I lost interest was June, she had a great introduction but I would've liked to have explored her motivations and backstory quite a bit more, and especially since her interactions with Sydney ended up in nothing. I felt a romance / infatuation between the two characters but that subplot was flat. Again.But not everything was terrible (for me) and I liked two major points: Firstly, I truly enjoyed the setting and world-building – We have an expansion of the different ExtraOrdinary’s powers and the atmosphere feels completely cinematographic: some parts looked like a mix between Peaky Blinders and Gotham. And secondly, that non-functional family bond created between Mitch, Sydney and Victor. I was really touched with their scenes –I cried with the birthday’s gifts situation– and being able to see that Victor has a soft spot after all. «He hadn’t been asleep, she realized. Victor had simply been waiting for Syd to come home» All in all, I will say that this book was very readable, and I never was tempted to DNF it because I wanted to know what happened next –especially during the final chapters–, despite my issues with it. I understand that there will be a lot of people who are going to enjoy this, but it wasn’t my cup of tea. Nevertheless, Victoria Schwab is still one of my most favourite authors and I’ll continue reading everything she’ll write (although I don’t think I’m gonna read a third book of this series, if she gets to publish it).P. S. I'm not English, so if you see any mistakes let me know so I can correct them, please–––Me gustaría vivir en un mundo donde Vengeful nunca se hubiese publicado. Vicious fue una de mis mejores lecturas de este año y probablemente sea uno de mis libros favoritos de todos los tiempos, y como libro autoconclusivo funcionó extremadamente bien. Vicious era una historia compleja, oscura y retorcida –podéis leer de nuevo mi reseña aquí para saber lo mucho que me gustó– y creo que tuvo un final maravilloso. Dicho esto, Vengeful era uno de mis lanzamientos más esperados de 2018 y tenía grandes expectativas en esta novela, y tal vez por eso mismo (y también debido a todo el bombo y el trabajo de marketing sobre este libro), estoy completamente decepcionada. Honestamente creo que esta historia no necesita una segunda entrega. Y menos una tercera parte.Vengeful tiene una estructura similar a Vicious: comienza 5 años antes y nos lleva hacia el clímax en la actualidad, y aunque este recurso no fue tan alucinante como en la novela anterior (ya que ahora no se siente original), es un recurso narrativo que me gustó. Todavía tenemos varios puntos de vista en tercera persona que se entrelazan entre sí (Victor, Eli, Sydney, Mitch, Dom, Marcella, June… y más), pero esta vez me sentí bastante abrumada por la cantidad de nuevos POV y personajes.Para mí, la parte más 'plana’ de la novela fue la trama. Y es que no hay ninguna. Al comienzo del libro Victor se pregunta "¿Y ahora qué?", y nunca encuentra una respuesta. Tenía la esperanza de tener más de él en este libro pero, a decir verdad, su trama es tan débil que sería terriblemente aburrido si tuviera más páginas en la novela. Pero al menos en ese caso habría estado más involucrada en la historia, y especialmente en la segunda parte de la novela, donde me aburrí hasta querer llorar.En general solo tenemos un grupo de personajes con los que es imposible conectar, con motivaciones planas que se pasan todo el tiempo de aquí para allá. Sí, me gustó saber sobre el pasado de Eli, pero no llegué a estar tan conmovida como esperaba –ah, y además tenemos una subtrama suelta en este punto, ¿pero entiendo que podría ser interesante para desarrollar en un tercer libro?–. Aunque sí que me enganché de inmediato con el nuevo capítulo de apertura de Marcella, a medida que el libro avanzaba, comencé a perder interés en ella y, cuando me encontraba con sus capítulos, ya ponía los ojos en blanco. Es simplemente una villana con una motivación sosísima (solo ansía el poder) y esperaba más –esta reseña completa podría resumirse con 'esperaba más de todo durante toda la lectura'– y especialmente una interacción bien pensada con Victor y Eli.Otro personaje con el que perdí interés fue June, quien tuvo una gran presentación e introducción, pero me hubiera gustado explorar sus motivaciones y su historia un poco más, y especialmente cuando sus interacciones con Sydney acabaron en nada. Sentí una especie de romance / infatuación entre los dos personajes, pero esa subtrama volvió a ser plana. De nuevo.Pero no todo fue terrible y me gustaron dos puntos principales: en primer lugar, realmente disfruté la configuración del mundo y la ambientación – Tenemos una expansión de los diferentes poderes de los EOs y la atmósfera se siente completamente cinematográfica: algunas partes parecían una mezcla entre Peaky Blinders y Gotham. Y en segundo lugar, ese vínculo de familia poco (o nada) funcional creado entre Mitch, Sydney y Victor. Me conmovieron mucho sus escenas –lloré incluso durante la escena de los regalos de cumpleaños– y se puede ver que Victor tiene puntos débiles y un corazoncito, después de todo.Con todo, diré que este libro fue muy fácil de leer, y nunca tuve la tentación de abandonarlo porque quería saber qué sucedía a continuación, especialmente a lo largo de los capítulos finales, a pesar de mis problemas con la historia. Entiendo que habrá muchas personas que van a disfrutar de este libro, pero no me ha gustado. Y con todo, Victoria Schwab sigue siendo una de mis autoras favoritas y continuaré leyendo todo lo que escriba (aunque no creo que lea una tercera parte de esta saga, si llega a publicarla).
