317381872	"In his extreme youth Stoner had thought of love as an absolute state of being to which, if one were lucky, one might find access; in his maturity he had decided it was the heaven of a false religion, toward which one ought to gaze with an amused disbelief, a gently familiar contempt, and an embarrassed nostalgia. Now in his middle age he began to know that it was neither a state of grace nor an illusion; he saw it as a human act of becoming, a condition that was invented and modified moment by moment and day by day, by the will and the intelligence and the heart." William Stoner grew up on a farm, a hardscrabble farm too small to provide more than just subsistence living. They were an undersized family for that time period, just his father and mother and himself. It took all of them to keep up with the backbreaking work of a farm in the early 20th century. His father, in his own way, a visionary man could see that farming was on the cusp of great changes. He sent Stoner to the University of Missouri to find out what the future was going to be for agriculture. Stoner wasn't an inspired student. He still had to work on a relative's farm to pay for his tuition and found the more work he did the less help he got from his relatives. He still had to go back to the family farm and help his father whenever he had spare time. He was almost too busy to worry too much about schoolThe first pivotal moment for Stoner is when he is sitting in an English class taught by his future mentor. The professor puts him on the spot asking him to explain a Shakespeare Sonnet. Stoner was dumbfounded not only with embarrassment, but by the language of the English bard. He switched majors from the department of agriculture to the department of English literature. I grew up on a farm about 80 years after Stoner, as anticipated by Stoner's father, production agriculture took great leaps forward replacing a lot of backbreaking labor with machines. Farmers were able to increase their land holdings as tractors and thrashers allowed them to maximize daylight hours. I stacked a lot of hay, feed cattle in subzero weather, pulled calves (you've never been properly slimed until you've spent time up to your elbow in a cow's uterus.), fixed fence, rode tractors listening to Royals baseball games to keep from dozing off, drove trucks full of grain, and every minute I wasn't doing something for the farm or playing sports I was reading books. My parents don't know how it happened. It must have been an aberrant gene. Nobody I knew read books, except for the good book, which most of the time I couldn't tell they'd grasped many of the concepts of that book either. The 1980s farm crises hit just as I was coming of age. Land values had jumped up and many farmers had expanded their operations. Then land values plummeted and bankers started realizing that the loans they had made to these farmers were no longer secured with enough equity. They started calling their customer's notes due. Thousands of farmers were forced to sell out. My Dad survived by the skin of his teeth. He decided there was no future in farming and told me I was going to college. My younger brother was a better fit for farming anyway. My Dad knew that I wasn't really cut out to be a farmer (my nose in a book all the time might have been the tip-off). A crises for many created an opportunity for me. Like Stoner I majored in English Literature. Stoner becomes a teacher. He decides not to go to war with his friends and suffers from the stigma of swimming against the tide. This is a theme for Stoner, going his own way, ignoring the odd looks, and the snide remarks. He meets a demure young woman named Edith and pursues her doggedly believing that his kindness would be recognized and appreciated by someone so fragile. The description of the consummation of the marriage is one of the grimmest most agonizing that I have ever read. "Edith was in bed with the covers pulled to her chin, her face turned upward, her eyes closed, a thin frown creasing her forehead. Silently, as if she were asleep, Stoner undressed and got into bed beside her. For several moments he lay with his desire, which had become an impersonal thing, belonging to himself alone. He spoke to Edith, as if to find a haven for what he felt; she did not answer. he put his hand upon her and felt beneath the thin cloth of her nightgown the flesh he had longed for. He moved his hand upon her; she did not stir; her frown deepened. Again he spoke, saying her name to silence; then he moved his body upon her, gentle in his clumsiness. When he touched the softness of her thighs she turned her head sharply away and lifted her arm to cover her eyes. She made no sound."For a man so sensual and in need of romantic love he unfortunately married the wrong woman. He hoped for a partner, but found himself roped to a woman that embraced invalidism and waged nasty little wars against him that by his nature made him incapable of defending himself. He finds solace in books and spends more and more of his time at the University in Jesse Hall reading. Jesse Hall at the University of MissouriStoner makes enemies of some of his coworkers. He is so unsuited for office politics that it proves to be a detriment to him. Though I was so proud of him towards the end of the book when he cleverly outflanks a department chair intent on driving him from the profession. He meets a woman, a very special woman as if molded by the gods to be the perfect mate for him. Her name is Katherine Driscoll and the gymnastics involved with the misinterpretations, missteps and miscues of their burgeoning relationship left me emotionally drained. There are movies sometimes or television shows where the audience is on the edge of their seat waiting for the moment when the characters finally realize they are meant to be together and kiss for the first time. Well it wasn't a kiss that became that epic moment for William and Katherine. "He found himself trembling; as awkwardly as a boy he went around the coffee table and sat beside her. Tentatively, clumsily, their hands went out to each other; they clasped each other in an awkward, strained embrace; and for a long time they sat together without moving, as if any movement might let escape from them the strange and terrible thing that they held between them in a single grasp."Stoner's enemies leap at an opportunity to destroy him. Even the liberal community of a university has it's limits. Stoner for the first time in his life is becoming the person he always wanted to be, but the heady days of joy are under assault, and he is trapped by his own sense of honor. He suffers for love just as he is starting to understand it."In this forty-third year William Stoner learned what others much younger, had learned before him: that the person one loves at first is not the person one loves at last, and that love is not an end but a process through which one person attempts to know another."This is such a deceptively simple novel. The sparse, powerful prose give this book so much depth. Stoner gets under your skin. He is so stoic in the face of continued and unremitting harassment from the people around him that I found myself sharing the pain with him. The author John Williams grew up on a small farm in Texas and had a similar escape to the University as Stoner and I. He ended up developing the writing program for the University of Denver. In the introduction by John McGahern he relates something that Mr. Williams said that resonates with me as well. Williams complains about the changes in the teaching of literature and the attitude to the text "as if a novel or poem is something to be studied and understood rather than experienced." John WilliamsI'm a reader that likes to be told a story. I don't want to break books down to their mathematical or scientific structures. I want the mysticism, the emotion of a journey that expands my understanding of humanity. William Stoner is as real to me as the mailman that delivers my mail or the publisher that signs my checks. If I ever run into him I will shake his large, farm hardened hand and ask him if he has a little bit of time to talk to me about a certain sonnet written by a man by the name of Shakespeare.
2269147110	I read Stoner after I saw that almost all my friends on GR had read it. It’s an impressive work which I finished months ago but hard a hard time figuring out what to say about it with thousands of reviews already out there. Stoner is the life story of an unremarkable man and the consensus seems to be “he did his best.” He came from a Missouri farm family and a poor background but manages to become an English professor at the university. One theme is the ‘loneliness’ and ‘distant courtesy’ of many of the characters, which I think applies to Stoner himself. This may be a trait of many academic folks who have some kind of social disability and turn to books as a substitute for social interaction. He’s awkward around women but finally marries. Then we get I think, the most tragic lines in the book: “Within a month he knew that his marriage was a failure; within a year he stopped hoping that it would improve.”His wife is constantly exhausted and at the edge of hysteria. After they have a child (a girl) his wife seems so uninterested in the child that Stoner becomes mother and father. His wife deliberately takes away any pleasures he has, such as converting his den to her “art studio” so that he can’t spend time alone with his daughter while he works as she does her homework. Let’s put it this way: his wife is “nucking futs.”His life at the university offers limited respite to his hell at home. He gets into what is initially a trivial dispute with his department chair. The chair become his sworn enemy and punishes Stoner by taking away his graduate seminar courses. To a large extent Stoner is “an academic novel” highlighting all the backbiting and pettiness we’ve come to expect in these stories. One faculty member says: “It’s for us that the University exists, for the dispossessed of the world; not for the students, not for the selfless pursuit of knowledge, not for any of the reasons that you hear.”Stoner lets himself become a little crazy in the classroom. He loses the notes and becomes a good teacher, but this takes him several years “He suspected that he was beginning, ten years late, to discover who he was; and the figure he saw was both more and less than he had once imagined it to be. He felt himself at last beginning to be a teacher…” His younger colleagues recognize him as “a ‘dedicated’ teacher, a term they used half in envy and half in contempt…”He has contradictory feelings about his life. On one hand: “He was forty-two years old, and he could see nothing before him that he wished to enjoy and little behind him that he cared to remember.” And yet, and yet…. “Except for Edith’s absence from it, his life was nearly what he wanted it to be.” “He found himself wondering if his life were worth the living; if it had ever been. It was a question, he suspected, that came to all men at one time or another…” “Dispassionately, reasonably, he contemplated the failure that his life must appear to be.” He thinks “What did you expect?” and that becomes his mantra as he lies on his death bed. Is he heroic? Or is he a loser? It’s easy for an outsider to look back at Stoner’s life and tell him where he went wrong. Just as we can imagine a good friend or a brother or a sister telling us “you should have done this, Jim; you should have done that.” It’s obvious to them where we went wrong; yet they can’t see all the things we think and feel at the time; they can’t live our lives for us and despite all the advice and evidence that we should have done THIS or done THAT, instead we DON’T do that or we DO something entirely different. So as I look at Stoner’s life, here’s where I think he went wrong. Easy for me to say. I’ll put this in a spoiler in the unlikely event that there is anyone still out there who has not yet read Stoner:(view spoiler)[Why didn’t he leave his wife? Sure, in those days fewer people divorced, but some did. He stayed in a terrible marriage for the good of his daughter. But as an adult, his daughter turned into an alcoholic with her husband’s parents basically raising their grandkid. Why didn’t he challenge his wife even on some of the smaller things such as when she took away his den out of spite? It was his and his daughter’s only island of sanity in that house. Why didn’t Stoner stand up for his woman friend when the university forced the breakup of their ‘improper relationship’? They truly loved each other. Why did it take him 20 years to find a solution and fight back against his spiteful chairman who punished him by taking away his graduate courses? (hide spoiler)] Well, Stoner, “What did you expect?” How did that work out for you? photo of the author from thefriendlyshelfiles.wordpress.com["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
5971685251	welcome to...STON(OVEMB)ER.it's a new month, i'm reading a classic, i'm doing a bad pun: it's another installment of project long classics, in which i read old intimidating books in small chunks over several weeks in order to assuage my fears.this one is not really all that long, but i just finished oliver twist and therefore deserve only ease in my life. let's get into it.CHAPTER 1i would read anything published by the new york review of books, which is honestly my main reason for picking this one up. other than that i have no idea what this is about, but i'm guessing A Guy.i'm happy to inform you that thus far, i love it.CHAPTER 2well, if i wasn't already pretty anti-war already, that would do it. it got me on the futility of life, though!CHAPTER 3what's so striking about this book is that it's about a person who is ostensibly an adult, and yet is learning how to live completely on his own. he's somehow made himself so separate from social expectations that he is creating something completely new for himself.in other words he's now engaged to someone who seems to not care if he lives or dies.CHAPTER 4well, let me just say i hope that stoner is supposed to cut a pretty unlikable figure at this juncture. at the beginning it was hard to imagine a character i could feel for more, but those days are gone and i'm mostly #FreeEdith right now.CHAPTER 5edith was simply born in the wrong generation. sorry edith you would've loved bed rotting and psych meds.CHAPTER 6took a day off of reading to scream cry throw up at the state of the world yesterday. you know, my own personal version of skipping the wwi draft to go to grad school. but now let's get back into it.i'm back in on stoner and his meager expectations for happiness and his self-constructed dream library. it seems again like there's never been a more sympathetic character.CHAPTER 7well, stoner has just discovered love — of his daughter and of his work — and his tentative and grateful learning of things we take for granted is convincing me this book is going to ruin my life.CHAPTER 8oh my god. stoner. DO SOMETHING!!!!CHAPTER 9well, at least my guy's pathological passiveness doesn't extend to his teaching. but it seems like that will be yet another way that the world plots his specific downfall.CHAPTER 10i'm just lashing out because never have i immediately felt so fond of a character i knew was destined simply for suffering. i feel in some ways like this book holds itself to spare style and plot in order to not get caught for reaching almost soapy fever-pitch emotion.over a pass / fail oral exam!CHAPTER 11things only get better in order to get worse than before.CHAPTER 12i'm happy for my man but i just know that edith has something up her sleeve that will absolutely ruin this semblance of contentment, as with all the others. i pride myself on being a hater but i have nothing on edith.CHAPTER 13damn. i underestimated edith and overestimated that creep lomax. you should always fear a blond man.CHAPTER 14stoner heard "dress for the job you want, not the job you have" and changed it to "make the job you have the one you want." king of taking manifesting into his own hands.take that, lomax.CHAPTER 15the real sympathetic character here is grace. hard to feel much for either side of literature's worst marriage when there's a 12 year old girl having her life permanently ruined by her parents' status as freaks of nature.CHAPTER 16my guy really does love life in his way.CHAPTER 17sheesh.OVERALLthis book is called a lot of things like "an unassuming classic" and "a quiet masterpiece," but it only seems to be a simple story. the emotions contained within this book are so large-scale, so grand and consuming, it rivals a soap opera. stoner's series of disappointments and essential solitude in spite of his wishes are trivial compared to some literary tragedies, and yet, with deft writing and thoughtfulness, become almost too painful to bear reading.haunting stuff.rating: 4
4329493805	What did you expect? I know this book touched me deeply because I am mentally going through every person I know to figure out who I can recommend it to. Most of them, I think. It's that kind of book that-- while still telling its own individual story --contains so many universal themes. Life, death, love, family, failure, integrity. And it's exactly the right amount of sad; bittersweet, I would say.It tells the life story of William Stoner, a man we are told in the very beginning of the book would be remembered by hardly anyone after his death, the marks he made during his lifetime being faint and few. But what this leads into is an extremely well-written story of a man who grew up on a farm, was sent to study agriculture by his father and, there, at the University of Missouri, fell madly in love with literature and teaching. Sometimes, immersed in his books, there would come to him the awareness of all that he did not know, of all that he had not read; and the serenity for which he labored was shattered as he realized the little time he had in life to read so much, to learn what he had to know. Stoner did very little to carve himself a place inside my heart. Maybe it was the simple, humble nature of him that asked for so little and gave so much. His passion for teaching was pure and endearing. If anything, I sometimes wanted him to fight for himself a bit more, but it was not in his gentle nature. In his forty-third year William Stoner learned what others, much younger, had learned before him: that the person one loves at first is not the person one loves at last, and that love is not an end but a process through which one person attempts to know another. Along the way, he marries, has a child, gets into a conflict with a colleague and loses friends and students to two World Wars. His life is full of ups and downs, sometimes allowing him happiness, often not. Through it all, he finds a certain comfort in his books and his classes. His turning to literature during the hard times spoke to me personally.Summarised like this, it seems like such an unremarkable life and, as the opening paragraphs tell us, it sort of was, but I guess what is so wonderful about this story is that it shows how even a fairly average, unremarkable life is so full of passion and love. Personally, I didn't want to put it down.
3886805420	Spoiler alert: he doesn’t smoke weed
1342539749	For the hardworking men and women living in the open, windswept farm country of the American Midwest during the late 19th and early 20th century, day-to-day existence was frequently harsh and occasionally downright hostile, a stark, demanding life chiseling character as can be seen above in artist Grant Wood’s American Gothic. If you take a good look at this painting and then envision a son, an only child, working the fields alongside his father, you will have a clear image of the starting point for Stoner, John Williams’ classic novel of quiet perfection.The novel follows the life of William Stoner from his boyhood on a Missouri farm through his years as a faculty member of the English Department at the University of Missouri. William Stoner is a good man, a man of integrity, a man, as we eventually find out through his relationship with a fellow faculty member, Katherine Driscoll, capable of profound intimacy and tenderness of heart. William Stoner is also a lover of literature, accomplished scholar and dedicated teacher.But all is not well in the life of Professor Stoner, particularly in his home life. As a beginning instructor right out of graduate school, he marries a woman barely twenty years of age from St. Louis, the daughter of a banker, a young woman by the name of Edith Elaine Bostwick. Turns out, young Edith has suffered emotional abuse. And right from the start of her marriage, Edith inflicts emotional abuse on her husband Stoner and eventually on their daughter Grace. Personally, I found reading those parts of the novel involving Edith particularly wrenching bordering on painful.Indeed, as readers we live through the pain of Stoner dealing with Edith’s wall of emotional frigidness and coldness, which includes being relegated as a husband in his late twenties to sleeping on the parlor coach at night. Through all the years of isolation and alienation, including Edith’s wedging a wall of separation between Stoner and Grace, there is one particularly poignant scene where we read:“Once, while Edith was upstairs, William and his daughter passed each other in the living room. Grace smiled shyly at him, and involuntarily he knelt on the floor and embraced her. He felt her body stiffen, and he saw her face go bewildered and afraid. He raised himself gently away from her, said something inconsequential, and retreated to his study.” For a child to become bewildered and afraid when a parent expresses such tenderness and affection speaks volumes to the level of emotional abuse at home.Rather than dwelling on the grimness of Stoner’s family life, I will conclude with a final observation: Grace gives birth to a baby boy but after one brief visit did not return to the home of her parents with her son since, as Stoner realizes on his own and Grace tells him in so many words at one point during her whiskey drinking (and, yes, a grim fact: she has turned to alcohol), she got herself pregnant in the first place to escape the prison of her mother’s presence. Well, my goodness – as readers we have a good idea what it would mean for a sensitive man like William Stoner to be deprived of a relationship with his grandson.Turning to Stoner’s professional life, there are serious cracks within the halls of academe. He is a man of integrity and honesty and the political infighting within academic departments is famous for being vicious and nasty. I wouldn’t want to say any more so as to spoil for a reader, but I can assure you Dr. Stoner is on the receiving end of a large dose of viciousness. But through it all, our main character remains strong. One memorable paragraph from the novel: “But William Stoner knew of the world in a way that few of his younger colleagues could understand. Deep in him, beneath his memory, was the knowledge of hardship and hunger and endurance and pain. Though he seldom thought of his early years on the Booneville farm, there was always near his consciousness the blood knowledge of his inheritance, given him by forefathers whose lives were obscure and hard and stoical and whose common ethic was to present to an oppressive world faces that were expressionless and hard and bleak.”Incidentally, when I was a 12-year old boy I joined me father, mother and sister as we took a trip in our car from the New Jersey shore across the American Midwestern heartland of farms to pay a visit to my grandmother. On the trip out and also in my grandmother’s town, I heard a number of harrowing tales of farm life, especially for the children of farmers. I reflected on those tales of physical hardship and unending toil and thus wrote this surreal micro-fiction some years ago:DOWN ON THE FARMBefore he leaves the city they tell him how the country doctor drives a buggy made from the flesh and bones of his former patients.“Nothing goes to waste,” is the way they put it when he finally arrives, “we’re all farmers around here.”He joins the doctor on his first visit to a farmhouse to attend a sick woman. Instead of a thermometer, the doctor sticks his middle finger under the woman’s tongue and says, “I’ve done this enough times to know when someone has a fever.”He looks over the doctor’s shoulder out the farmhouse window. Beyond a skeleton tied to a pole, he sees the farmer plowing his field using his younger son harnessed as a beast of burden.“Doesn’t that take superhuman strength?” he asks the doctor.The doctor answers, “His older son wasn’t quite as strong, but still makes a fine scarecrow.”American author John William (1922-1994)
1476870672	Those who can, do. Those who can't, teach.What to do when everything goes wrong? Work, marriage, parenthood, eventually health? Plenty of benevolent advices and platitudes will whizz around your ears, to help you to bounce back . Remember, it is all in your mind. Happiness is the result of your approach to life, not of what happens to you. Revolt, anger, complaining or denial won’t change anything. Focus on what is instead of on what should be. Accept, accept, accept. Take one step at time, keep moving, keep working to what you want in life.In our times of voluntarist belief in shaping our own destiny, only fools refuse or refrain to act or at least to try to take control of their own life .But perhaps the only sensible thing to do is keep breathing. Minimal action, minimal reaction. Just embrace plain and simple old-fashioned and untimely Stoicism. Like Stoner. Wisdom lies in tuning our lives to the divine order of the universe and to want what actually is the case. As emotions have an external source, as we are being moved, touched, affected, impassioned, be the Master of Yourself and control your emotions. Do not strive for pleasure. Be un-touched. Only a fool tries to impose his own selfish desires upon reality and is the plaything of his emotions and desires. The consolations of philosophy applied to ordinary life. Amongst the teachers I know, there is a bittersweet running joke, when talking about the essence of their profession. Why does someone chooses to become a teacher? And, bursting with self-mockery laughter, they sing in unison Those who can, do. Those who can’t, teach. Stoner’s friend Dave Masters, could probably agree with it, when he is partly ironically speaking about the true nature of universities: ”It is an asylum or — what do they call them now? — a rest home, for the infirm, the aged, the discontent, and the otherwise incompetent."This novel strongly reminisced academic life, its seclusion and petty machinations. Not having Stoner’s gift of endurance, I fled, abandoning the dream of a life of learning and science after 6 years of struggle, as university was not the refuge and source of wisdom this naive working class daughter hoped for, but a ruthless, almost egotistic habitat crushing me – a place where teaching didn’t really matter. As Ian trenchantly points out, if we empathize with Stoner’s dire life, couldn’t it be because of our own wounds and experiences too? Imagine yourself living together with Stoner. However wise and admirable his stoicism, there is also a solipsistic aspect to it. According to his creator, Stoner is altogether a happy man:”He had a very good life. He had a better life than most people do, certainly. He was doing what he wanted to do, he had some feeling for what he was doing, he had some sense of the importance of the job he was doing.” But what about the effect of his stoic attitudes on the lives of the others in his life? His parents, wife, daughter, lover? Does he really care? I disliked Williams’s portrayal of Edith, Stoner’s vicious battle-axe of a wife – I guess I am not conversant enough with the perception of American women in that part of history, but her one-dimensional depiction hardly exceeds the caricature image of the neurotic frigid female, like the Madge in Frank Zappa’s Harry you’re a beast (You paint your head - Your mind is dead -- You don't even know what I just said - THAT'S YOU: AMERICAN WOMANHOOD! You're phony on top - You're phony underneath - You lay in bed & grit your teeth. MADGE, I WANT YOUR BODY! HARRY, GET BACK! MADGE, IT'S NOT MERELY PHYSICAL! HARRY, YOU'RE A BEAST!).Coming no further than these personal musings, I feel not able to do justice to this poignant novel, hitting a little too close to home, for more than one reason. Yes, Stoner is as unforgettable a character as many reviews point out. Yes, in many respects, I have known a Stoner. We were married for 16 years. He was, like Stoner, the most stoic person I ever met. He illustrated his philosophy lectures with a cartoon from D. Palmer’s Looking at Philosophy: The Unbearable Heaviness of Philosophy Made Lighter ; afterwards showing it to our children to teach them equanimity when things didn't work out as they would like they did. As I am not that stoic like he was, because of its ending, I didn't have the heart to pass the book to him.
1550518042	THIS WAS MY BEST BOOK OF 2016! It was a hard decision; it was a choice between this and The Vegetarian by Hang Kang. But I had to think which book taught be the most, and which book helped me the most. I enjoyed them both immensely, I loved them, but this one set me on my path in life; thus, I will always be grateful for John Williams and his Stoner. ****************************************************** He opened the book; and as he did so it became not his own. He let his fingers rifle through the pages and felt a tingling, as if those pages were alive. The tingling came through his fingers and coursed through his flesh and bone; he was minutely aware of it, and he waited till it contained him, until the old excitement that was like horror fixed him where he lay…… William Stoner has a terrible life: his marriage is a disaster; his daughter resembles her damaged mother; his teaching career is hindered by an argument with a fellow faculty member, and he is subjected to continual waves of misery. All in all, it’s a sad life: it’s his life. However, through all the shit times, and the occasional glimpses of happiness, one thing keeps him animated; it’s a thing every reader knows: a love of words, a love of books and a love of the wonderment of literature. I will never forget the journey I shared with Stoner in these pages. He is a flawed man. When he was a student he had no real ambition or drive. He didn’t know what he wanted to do, but he knew what he didn’t want to do: he didn’t want to be a farmer like his farther. A university lecture inspired him with the marvels of Shakespeare; he asked him a question, a question that changed Stoner’s life. The result was a switch in academic discipline and an enthusiastic perusal of everything literature based. Stoner became engrossed with his work; he quickly forgot about the outside world, and refused to take part in the war effort. This is a feeling I know all too well. When one is completely engrossed in reading, obsessed even, it becomes difficult to pay attention to reality. If you’ve made it this far into my review, then I probably don’t need to tell you that. Stoner had what he needed: he had his books. But, life isn’t always that simple. “He had come to that moment in his age when there occurred to him, with increasing intensity, a question of such overwhelming simplicity that he had no means to face it. He found himself wondering if his life were worth the living; if it had ever been.” A profound question to ask oneself, and I truly think this helped to consolidate his decisions. Student life comes to an end for most folk. For Stoner there is no end. University is his home; it is his life; it is his passion and his drive: it is the one and only constant in his existence. So why would he ever leave it? Why would he ever give it up? The student becomes the teacher, and Stoner extends his stay for a lifetime. He has nothing else to cling to, only a love for his field of scholarship. I cannot quite express how much I sympathise with this character here. As a student of literature, and a huge hobby reader, sometimes there seems to be little else on the horizon but to peruse one’s passion. For Stoner though, his choice was the only one he could ever have made. His existence is only really for one purpose, and because of this he realised very early on his consequential fate. “It’s like it just all goes around and around and keeps on going. It makes you wonder.” As Stoner gets older his peers begin to die. In this he sees what awaits him; he has the stark realisation that he, too, will die. This may seem trivial and an obvious fact of life, though a realisation of such magnitude can really alter character. Stoner has a midlife crises; he has a glimpse of what his life could have been like had he married his soul mate: his love and intellectual equal. It is a shame for Stoner that such a thing came when he was already settled, but, again, that’s just life. This problematic relationship sets him even further on his course. I don’t need to tell you about the ending. It is an obvious conclusion for such a book, though I will say that its delivery was nothing short of perfection. Never before have I read a book in which the entire thing is embodied in its final few words. I’m amazed. I’m shaken. I’m stunned. I’m numb. >Why you should read this: I don’t often go as far as to explicitly state something like this in a review. Reading is personal and subjective. My reviews are just my opinion; they may not be shared by others. With this, however, I would go as far to say that this should be read by every reader, every reader who has felt the sharp pangs that literature can evoke. Here is a man who is completely lost; here is a character that has nothing really to live for: here is a man who is lost in the words, and it’s his salvation. And this is his life story. This is not a simple novel. It is a bildungsroman that is tragic, emotive and even inspiring. This book opened my eyes to many things. I learnt a great deal about life and myself in the process. Trust me, fellow bibliophiles, go read it. This is something really special. __________________________________You can connect with me on social media via My Linktree.__________________________________
1201648132	"… a quiet sadness for the common plight was never far beneath any moment of his living."This novel damn near broke my heart. Come to think of it, it did break my heart. I’ve been picking up the pieces and trying to put them back together for the past eleven days since finishing it. I don’t know what else to say that hasn’t already been said about this exceptional piece of writing. We are William Stoner. Isn’t there a piece of him in every single one of us? We go about our lives with the best intentions. Looking for friendship. Searching for love. Thinking we’ve found it and then not exactly knowing what to do with it. Making mistakes and yet enduring. Sometimes doing battle but mostly resolving ourselves to our individual circumstances. "The past gathered out of the darkness where it stayed, and the dead raised themselves to live before him; and the past and the dead flowed into the present among the alive, so that he had for an intense instant a vision of denseness into which he was compacted and from which he could not escape, and had no wish to escape."This is another one of those contemplative novels that leaves me feeling like I’m in the presence of a wise soul. He or she speaks to me quietly but with an underlying urgency I cannot ignore. This soul is not showy but quite pure and simple. It’s achingly honest. I have to wonder though – do we all necessarily damage one another? Do the effects of a hard life trickle down through the generations so endlessly? I hope not. Love, marriage, and parenting – such challenging waters to navigate at times. Our best is never good enough. Perhaps we are the harshest judges of our own actions."Dispassionately, reasonably, he contemplated the failure that his life must appear to be."It can’t get more depressing than that. Yet, there were glimmers of hopefulness and happiness that guided me through to the end of this book. Moments in time that make it all worthwhile. Love for literature and finding love itself. Loving a child. Do we really need an abundance of everything? There were some passages that really took hold of me and wouldn’t let go. I’m still in the clutches of Stoner’s (and John Williams’) words. "Sometimes, immersed in his books, there would come to him the awareness of all that he did not know, of all that he had not read; and the serenity for which he labored was shattered as he realized the little time he had in life to read so much, to learn what he had to know."I’ve always been able to relate to that. Sitting surrounded by our massive piles of books, we can all empathize, I’m sure."… the person one loves at first is not the person one loves at last, and that love is not an end but a process through which one person attempts to know another."It kind of makes you want to fall in love all over again, doesn’t it?!I don’t know why I waited so long to read this novel. I knew I would love it. This was the first book I picked up on the first day of the new year, new decade. I wouldn’t be surprised if it remains my favorite of the year.
2002463664	I asked my daughter if me and her and her mother were in a hot air balloon and it was about to crash into the ocean who would you throw out to keep the balloon aloft, me or your mother? She said she’d throw me out. I said Why? She said Because you’re bigger than her. So I said okay, imagine that me and your mother weigh exactly the same, then who would you throw out? She said she’d throw me out. I said why? She said because you’re older, so you’ve had your fun. So I said okay, imagine that me and your mother weigh the same and we’re exactly the same age, now who would you throw out? She said she’d throw me out. I asked why? She said because you keep asking all these stupid questions. So I gave up on that line of enquiry and read Stoner, a much loved novel.It’s about this teacher. Boy, do people like to wax sentimental about teachers. There’s Mr Chips in Goodbye Mr Chips and there’s John Keating in Dead Poets Society and that’s just off the top of my head. William Stoner in this sorry tale is a Missouri farm boy who goes to university to study agriculture then gets smacked upside his head by one of Shakespeare’s sonnets and never looks back. He becomes a worshipper at the shrine of literature, with a capital L and becomes a teacher of it.This is the kind of study of Literature where a student will announceI intend to trace Shelley’s first rejection of Godwinian necessitarianism for a more or less Platonic ideal through the mature use of that ideal as a comprehensive synthesis of his earlier atheism, radicalism, Christianity and scientific necessitarianismYou at the back wake up! I’m not even half way done with this damned review. Well, university English departments did and maybe still do crank out students who write this sort of abstruse shite and it’s all just as useful as the great theological treatises about the nature of the Logos in St John’s left earhole or whether it was 5000 herrings or 5000 cod in the feeding of the 5000. What a colossal waste of time. HE FELT AT TIMES THAT HE WAS A KIND OF VEGETABLE(p. 184)Yes, I could not but agree, possibly a leek or a radish or a turnip or a mangel wurzel. Stoner is exactly what a vegetable would be if a vegetable could be a junior professor in English at the University of Missouri. He plods dully through his life in a very vegetably way. He sees a pretty girl at the age of around 25, having apparently never seen one before, and thinks “I…will…marry…that” and does so. This turns out to be a giant MISTAKE.Like Smokey Robinson said in 1961Gotta get yourself a bargain sonDon't be sold on the very first onePretty girls come a dime a dozenTry to find one who's gonna give ya true lovin'Before you take a girl and say I do nowMake sure she's in love with you nowMy mama told meYou better shop aroundIn all fairness, William’s mother never gave him this advice as she was still down on the farm rassling with the piglets. Edith, the bride, turns out to be the very dictionary definition of damaged goods. Some readers think she’s simply bonkers but John Williams puts in a scene which clearly shows where her fear and hatred of men has come from, and it was all very sadly believable. So poor old Bill. He’s married a cross between Joan Crawford in Mommie Dearest and Glen Close in Fatal Attraction. No bunnies are harmed during this novel, it is true, but there is a strong suggestion that Edith would have boiled up a dozen if only she’d have thought of it. Oh and then Bill Stoner gets embroiled in a ridiculous trench war in the English department, the upshot of which is that now his boss also hates him and spends 25 years making sure his professional life is a misery. What a pickle! Hated by wife and boss! Onward plods the vegetable, through the rest of his painful life. For the first half I had to agree with the vast majority of 4 & 5 starrers of Stoner. It was weirdly compelling. It was boring but kinda hypnotic, like Donna Tartt’s Secret History. It was boring in an interesting way. But jeez, then it all becomes a little too much. If it’s a plot spoiler I will say that for 30 pages or so our Bill is actually HAPPY! But you know and I know that won’t last and we’ll be back to stoically enduring and gritting teeth and shoulder to the wheel. So the stars began to fade away and by the last page Stoner was very lucky to hang on to his third star.
2960607104	This is quite possibly the saddest novel I've ever read. It's certainly one of the most beautiful.
83036438	I was going to start out this review of Stoner by feigning comic incredulity that the former conductor of the Boston Pops wrote a novel about potheads, but that is far, far too obvious and unsatisfying even for the likes of me. Instead, I am going to confess that I read only half of it (and, thereby, my ignorance has been properly disclaimed) but that this aborted reading filled me with such unmitigated contempt for the author that I plan on mounting every soapbox (if soapboxes haven't been technologically obviated by now) from here to the Great Barrier Reef condemning this plodding, tiresome, amateurish book with an antagonistic passion that literature hasn't evoked in me since Cambridge's A Concise History of France (wherein concision meant excising significant historical events in favor of agricultural data and a dimly Marxist perspective, but I digress -- as always).I shouldn't blame John Williams for my rising blood pressure because in fact YOU are to blame. Yes, you. Perhaps not individually, but in the general sense of Goodreads voters and reviewers, of which you are presumably a constituent. As of this moment, Stoner has an average rating of 4.39 stars out of five on the basis of 531 Goodreader ratings. This is a remarkable score, to be sure, but as with many averages, it is complete and utter bullshit -- obviously contaminated by the spurious opinions of the ardent fans of graceless, tedious prose. You know who you are.Let's parse the data, shall we? 459 people gave this turd four or five stars; whilst only eleven people were courageous enough to call a spade a spade and, against the grain of general opinion, to award it only one or two stars. I consider these eleven people heroes. You and your ilk can eulogize the armed forces, the pigs, the schlubby, mustachioed rescue workers, with your tearful montages of wars, standoffs, and celebrity house fires, all assembled to the reactionary tunes of 3 Doors Down or Nickelback; I prefer a subtler form of heroism -- you know, the lone voice who amid the Russophilic, ostentatiously intellectual acclaim for Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita dares to raise an eyebrow at this dry Goethe wannabe...I therefore am a great hero because, fighting the insidious cabal of 'respectable' opinion, I offer my head to the rabble in order to warn you what a lifeless stinkbomb Stoner is. John Williams, I suspect, was an author who was better suited to actuarial work or fumigating. Something more prosaic. His main problem is that he wants desperately to tell you everything. He's adamant that you know this or that about his main character William Stoner's psychological make-up, habits, and proclivities, but unfortunately he'd rather put Mr. Stoner behind a glass wall at the zoo and recite a bunch of vague adjectives and banal activities relevant to him. In placing Stoner in the zoo and preparing a dry summation about him, he deprives Stoner of life, abbreviates him into a concept...This is one of the worst kind of all writers, in my opinion. He's committed to telling us and not to showing us. He wants to control your attitude toward the characters by completely demystifying them. Williams lays everything on the table, as if he's handing you a psychological abstract. More than a few times, I wished that John Williams were not dead and were ready-at-hand, so I could give him a chocolate swirlie. And then I pulled back in my condemnation for a moment... I rethought my rage... There are literally jillions of shitty writers on this planet, and a not-insignificant number have had their works published. Why should I blame John Williams for having a dream -- a grand ambition? I wish for nothing less myself. The intended repository for my rage and general ill-will should be those who have applauded this crapfest -- the ones who've elevated it to the status of minor classic of 20th century American literature. The straw which broke the etc. came midway through the book when Stoner's wife, until then a mousy, retiring, sickly sort, adopts a new attitude after the death of her father. She bobs her hair (it's the 1920s) and throws out her old clothes and buys some of those shapeless flapper-type shifts, and -- more consequentially -- she declares war on her husband. The psychology might as well be written in neon. She resents the dull (and not very affluent) academic life her husband provides. The switch is so abrupt and ridiculous that all of the author's explanations and expositions do nothing to make it palatable, even in his stubbornly distanced and abstract telling. I've read better character development when we got in small groups to discuss our first stories in Creative Writing 101.
2937972967	i have started and stopped writing this review several times because i cant seem to find words big enough to do this book justice or words strong enough to hold how i feel about it. this is a story about an average man living an every day life. it could be considered unglamorous, boring, and even frequently disappointing. but isnt life often unglamorous and boring and disappointing? and i think thats the genius of this novel. to take a common man and make you love him because you realise that you and him arent unalike, that you too feel common. but when you have the opportunity to see an entire life in front of you, such as william stoners, you realise that the beauty is in the little things. that the simple life, the quiet life, is significant. that the individual life is worth examining. and it gives you hope and comfort to know that if the life of an average man is of value, then yours is too. and there are no words to describe that. ↠ 4.5 stars
1206275812	Career opportunities...He saw the future in the institution to which he had committed himself and which he so imperfectly understood; he conceived himself changing in that future, but he saw the future itself as the instrument of change rather than its object.William Stoner is a humble soldier of science, the one belonging to the majority of scholars. He is an outsider of life, honest and conscientious.…he had gone through a kind of conversion, an epiphany of knowing something through words that could not be put in words…When I think of William Stoner I imagine a scriptorium in a monastery and a monk copying the old musty vellums. The scriptor is long dead and gone but his manuscripts persist.
1954949160	لأن كتابا جيدا بإمكانه إنقاذ حياتك..كيف نبدو في عيون العالم؟ويليام ستونر،ويلي مثال مرعب لنظرية "جعلوه فانجعل"، مثلت لي كل ما أكره وكل ما أسعى لأن لا أكونهلم يا رجل، افعل شيئا بحق اللهافعل شيئا لعينا.*لا تعلم هل تريد أن تصرخ بها في وجهه وتصفعه، أم تحتضنه وتبكي.. ترك مزرعة والديه ليلتحق بالجامعة، لا لأنه أراد ذلك، لأنهم آخبروه أنه بإمكانه أن يفعلانتقل لمنزل اقرباء له خلال فترة الجامعة، وكلوه بمهام لا تقل مشقة عما كان يقوم به كمزارع في منزله الأولاومأ برأسه و باشر بالعمل علي مر سنوات، بل وفق مواعيده حتي ينجز الأعمال صباحًا وينجز مهامه الدراسية علي أكمل وجه مساءًبعد تخرجه نال درجتي الماجستير و الدكتوراة لأن معمله أخبره أن بإمكانه الالتحاق بمنحة لتميزهعمل كمدرس في الجامعة لأن الإدارة أخبرته أنه سيفعل، لم أنا؟ألا تعلم؟ أنت مدرس بالفطرةزوجة مُحبطه مُحطمة قررت أن تفعل كل ما في وسعها لتعجله يقوم برد فعل واحد لعين، كي يعترض علي أي شئمهما تمادت ومهما وصلت لدرجات مريعة من الساديةكان يُدبر أموره، بلا ايماءة تبدي انزعاجًا أو حزنًاكانوا يجعلوه، فينجعلبتلك البساطةلأن كتابا جيدًا بإمكانه إنقاذ حياتك حين يريك سيناريو دقيق مرعب يردك مرغمًا إلي بداية الطريق كي تصحح الأمور ولا تكون ستونر آخر*هامشإذا أردت أن تنال الخلود، دع أديبا بارعا يكتبكسوف تنال الخلود، حتي لو كنت رجلًا عاديًامثل ويليام ستونررواية غير عادية، تروي السيرة الذاتية لرجلٍ عادي.
63546143	Reading "Stoner" gave me another one of those parallel universe experiences. In the goodreads universe, where everyone else lives, this is apparently a much loved and lauded book. Heck, those good folks at the New York Review of Books tell us it's a classic. And has this to say about the main protagonist: William Stoner emerges from it not only as an archetypal American, but as an unlikely existential hero, standing, like a figure in a painting by Edward Hopper, in stark relief against an unforgiving world I'm sorry, but that's just a crock, even allowing for reviewer hyperbole. The very best that you could manage to say about Stoner is that he's a wraithlike nebbish who manages to glide through this dismal story without leaving an impression on anyone, least of all the reader. People seem to admire John Edward Williams's writing. The thing that baffled me is how any author can use so many words to write about a character and end up describing someone who is utterly devoid of a single distinguishing trait, or even a semblance of a personality. Stoner is a stick figure who, over the course of the book, gets to interact with other stick figures (the resentful wife, the condescending academic colleagues, the college friend with a lust for life who gets mowed down before his prime in the Great War, etc etc ad bloody nauseam) as they act out standard plot #24*. Now I know the number of plots is finite, so it might seem unjust to fault an author for serving up the same story yet again. Fair enough. But it's considered good sport to mess with the template a little bit, to inject one's own authorial "spark", to add *something* to make the story rise above the generic template. Maybe you take the A.J. Cronin slant and stir in a little rage against the system. Or you might just add a big ladleful of chicken soup for the soul and give the story a Mr Chips vibe. What you can't do, and hope to keep the reader's interest and sympathy, is just trot out the bare-bones generic version of the tale, with no embellishment**. But this is exactly what Williams has done here. What's the point? I wasn't looking for much. Hell, I'd have settled for the odd chunk of snappy dialog. A sense of humor. Anything at all, really. But even the most basic dialog seems to exceed Williams's capacity, and decent characterization eludes him completely.Anyway, the bottom line is that, in my universe, this book was bleak, predictable, excruciatingly dull. Like one of those dreadful Thomas Hardy books where everyone is miserable all the time, but without the local color. One star, maximum. Though it isn't quite dreadful enough to earn a slot on the "intellectual con artist at work" shelf.(Story #24: Intelligent {farmboy/kid from slums/juvenile delinquent/will be played by Matt Damon in the movie} transcends hardscrabble background to be first in the family to attend college. Lurches into an unfulfilling marriage that ends up making everyone miserable, teaches college, is left wondering if that's all there is. Alienation everywhere you look.)**:Several authors have written intelligently within the framework of the "academic novel" (Francine Prose, Jane Smiley, James Hynes, Kingsley Amis, among others), even managing to be funny. But those are authors with, you know, discernible intelligence, an affliction which John Edward Williams has apparently been spared.I just read David K's excellent review and realize that I am a hero, albeit a "Master and Margarita"-loving hero. So be it.
2932568356	Se poate întîmpla ca o carte excelentă să treacă neobservată și de critici, și de public? Am mai pus cîndva această întrebare și cred că am răspuns negativ. Să discutăm însă și despre o excepție.Cînd s-a tipărit prima ediție, în 1965, romanul lui John Williams nu a stîrnit nici un interes. S-au vîndut cam o mie de exemplare (poate 1500, poate 2000), ceea ce pentru Statele Unite (și spațiul anglo-saxon) este foarte puțin. Criticii au ignorat cartea. Și lumea a uitat-o. Într-un cuvînt: autorul și cartea lui n-au avut noroc.Și-au amintit brusc de ea, ca printr-o intuiție bizară, editorii de la New York Review Books Classics și au retipărit-o în 2003, apoi în mai multe rînduri, în 2006, în 2013. Din prudență, autorul murise în 1994, la 71 de ani. În 2013, brusc, Stoner a devenit cartea anului, cel mai căutat roman, capodopera pierdută și regăsită, un bestseller incontestabil: 164.000 de exemplare vîndute în cîteva luni. Criticii au sărit ca arși. Recenzii peste recenzii. Investigații. Nedumeriri. Anchete: cum s-a putut întîmpla această nedreptate? Cine e vinovatul? Un răspuns isteț este greu de formulat. Pînă acum n-am găsit unul. Să constați că Stoner este un titlu neatractiv, alb, mi se pare insuficient. Să afirmi că romanul e pesimist și că americanii nu gustă poveștile deprima(n)te, la fel. Cu siguranță, deși a fost sublimă, promovarea cărții pur și simplu a lipsit.Erori de apreciere se fac mereu. Judecata de gust e nesigură. Oricine poate greși. Numai Dumnezeu e infailibil. Așa se spune. În 1965, au greșit aproape toți. Exegeții au fost cuprinși pesemne de o ciudată orbire. Cititorii de somnolență. Acum și unii, și alții încearcă să-și spele păcatele. Își fac mea culpa. Văd în John Williams un prozator remarcabil. Ceea ce este neîndoios.Închei cu un titlu din The New York Times: „You Should Seriously Read ‘Stoner’ Right Now”. Dacă amînăm și de această dată, peste alți cincizeci de ani va fi cu adevărat tîrziu și inutil. Citiți cu atenție Stoner fix acum!
5184902	Devastating novel of academia, unfulfilled hope, and a life not-entirely-lived. Gorgeous writing, heartbreaking plot, and if you're a fan, as I tend to be, of stories set in the dark halls of libraries and universities, this is one to read. The love story within this book is suddenly out-of-nowhere rapturous, and the marriage is brittle, delicate, insensible and perfectly done. The book feels so modern, though the bulk of the action is set in the 30's and 40's. I kept stopping to check that this was true - the love affair, in particular, feels like something that might be happening this moment in an office at, say, Middlebury. Stoner's marriage, in contrast, is painfully frozen in time and in the cultural expectations of women in the early part of the last century, but even so, Stoner's wife's personality feels very real to me, and the way it is written about feels revolutionary. Speaking of revolutionary: I don't know why this book doesn't stand with, say, Revolutionary Road, as a massive classic. By the end, I was holding a hand over my mouth, because I kept moaning in sympathy for poor Stoner. I never felt that way reading Yates - whose characters, though foiled totally by their self-involvement, seem somehow to deserve what they get. Reading this felt more like reading someone like Andre Dubus - full of people making destructive choices, but nevertheless, you feel for them, and feel their humanity the whole time you're reading.
3083946746	بجد والله🙄هي دي بقي ستونر..صحيح لولا إختلاف الأذواق لبارت الكتب...!الرواية عبارة عن قصة حياة الشخص اللي إسمه ويليام ستونر معرفش هو شخصية حقيقية ولا لأ وغير مهتمة إني أعرف الحقيقة...شخصية مملة،سلبية،معندوش أي حاجة مميزة ،لا في شخصيته ولا في حياته ولا هو ولا حتي في كل الناس اللي حواليه...ليه أضيع أنا وقت من حياتي عشان أقرأ هذا البؤس والملل..!!!هو أنا ليه بقرأ أساساً؟أنا بقرأ عشان أستفاد أو عشان أستمتع أو عشان أعيش حلم جميل أو حياة مختلفة مش عارفة أعيشها في الحقيقة فبعيشها جوة الكتب...ايه بقي يا أستاذ ستونر اللي انا استفدته من معاليك! بجد ولا حاجة...دة حتي مفيش جملة ملهمة وقفت عندها وخلتني أفكر فيها...بس عشان مبقاش كدابة..في دي👇"كان أحياناً يشعر أنه أحد أنواع النباتات،يتوق إلي شئ ما-إلي الشعور بالألم حتي-لينخر فيه،ليبقيه علي قيد الحياة.." !!أنا مش مريضة ضغط بس متأكدة لو قست ضغط دلوقتي حلاقيه عالي..!حسبي الله ونعم الوكيل وأهلاً بالمعارك من محبي ستونر..😏
2203555645	** spoiler alert ** Θα ξεκινήσω με μια εικόνα που δημιούργησα διαβάζοντας το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο. Και τονίζω πως τη δημιούργησα εγώ την εικόνα διότι ο συγγραφέας το μόνο που έκανε ήταν να λέει στον αναγνώστη χωρίς να δείχνει. Αν οι λέξεις σου δεν χτίζουν χαρακτήρες και πλοκή, αν η γραφή σου απλώς μιλάει χωρίς να δημιουργεί, χωρίς να περνάει στον αναγνώστη μια διαδραστική σχέση αποκλείοντας κάθε είδους επιτήδευση, τότε συμπερασματικά καταλήγουμε στο:συγχαρητήρια για την προσπάθεια μα αποτύχατε πανηγυρικά. Η εικόνα που είχα συνεχώς μπροστά μου ήταν ένα σπίτι -που συμβολίζει ολόκληρη τη ζωή ενός ανθρώπου - το οποίο τυλίγεται στις φλόγες -ουσιαστικά και μεταφορικά- της απάθειας, και ο ιδιοκτήτης του σπιτιού βλέποντας την φωτιά να ξεκινάει απο σπίθες και να καταλήγει σε ολοκληρωτική καταστροφή έχει πάρει μπογιά και πινέλο και το βάφει. Η φωτιά δυναμώνει, κατατρώει και αφανίζει ό,τι έχεις δημιουργήσει μα εσύ στωικά συνεχίζεις να βάφεις τα αποκαΐδια μέχρι να πεθάνεις(μεταφορικά) απο ασφυξία και καθολικά εγκαύματα. Και το χειρότερο απο όλα είναι πως περνάει καλά με την όλη διαδικασία διότι ο ίδιος μένει αλώβητος. Έτσι, λιτά, απλά, απέριττα θα μπορούσα να τελειώσω το σχολιασμό μου, μα θέλω να υπεισέλθω σε λεπτομέρειες για να εκφράσω τη συναισθηματική νέκρα της πεζογραφίας και τη μοιρολατρική θλίψη που σκορπίζεται απλόχερα σε όλο το βιβλίο. Ο Στόουνερ είναι ένα φτωχό και στερημένο αγόρι που κατάγεται απο αγροτική οικογένεια. Οι γονείς του παλεύουν μέχρι τελικής πτώσης για την επιβίωση και δεν γνωρίζουν τίποτε πέρα απο τον μόχθο, τις στερήσεις και την στείρα ανταμοιβή μιας άγονης ζωής. Παρόλα αυτά στέλνουν το γιο τους μετά απο παρότρυνση άλλων, να σπουδάσει γεωπόνος στο πανεπιστήμιο. Ο Στόουνερ δίνει μεγάλο αγώνα δουλεύοντας και σπουδάζοντας βασικά, χωρίς να αισθάνεται το λόγο που βασανίζεται σωματικά και πνευματικά. Όταν κάποια τυχαία στιγμή στο πανεπιστήμιο ανακαλύπτει πως τον καθορίζει ως ύπαρξη η ανώτερη σπουδή και μελέτη της αγγλικής φιλολογίας και της μεσαιωνικής λογοτεχνίας με αρχαία ελληνικά, λατινικά και ρωμαϊκά έργα τέχνης, αποφασίζει να ακολουθήσει ακαδημαϊκή καριέρα ως καθηγητής πανεπιστημίου. Και απο δω και μετά αρχίζει μια ζωή ήρεμης απελπισίας. Ό,τι συμβαίνει στην πορεία της ιστορίας του Στόουνερ είναι καθαρά και απόλυτα οι συνέπειες των δικών του επιλογών. Τις περισσότερες φορές βέβαια οι επιλογές του είναι τυχαίες ή καθοδηγούμενες απο άλλους καθώς ο ίδιος είναι ένα τραγικό μίζερο και μοιρολατρικό άτομο με πλήρη απάθεια και μηδενική συναισθηματική νοημοσύνη. Ακόμη κι αν δεχτώ πως αταβιστικά ήταν στο αίμα του η απάθεια και η έλλειψη ενσυναίσθησης δεν γίνεται να λατρεύεις και να μελετάς με εμβρίθεια τα έργα παγκόσμιας λογοτεχνίας και να μην αλλάζεις φύσει θέσει την κοσμοθεωρία σου. Απλά δε γίνεται. Ειναι αφελές και ανόητο. Επομένως καταλήγουμε στο συμπέρασμα πως το ήθελε όλο αυτό το αδρανές και τραγικό. Το ευχαριστιόταν το μεμψίμοιρο. Στη συνέχεια κάνει έναν πλήρως αποτυχημένο γάμο με μια στεγνή, υστερικά καταθλιπτική γυναίκα απο επιλογή του. Φυσικά ο συγγραφέας φροντίζει να μας παρουσιάσει πολύ επιδερμικά το χαρακτήρα της συζύγου και τους λόγους που αντιδράει τοσο τοξικά στο γάμο της. Θα ήθελα να μάθω τι ένιωθε και πως σκεφτόταν όταν βυθίστηκε στο μαρτύριο της συμβίωσης με έναν άνδρα που ποτέ δεν αγάπησε και δεν αγαπήθηκε. Αποκτάει δυο επιστήθιους φίλους ζωής,συμφοιτητές απο το πανεπιστήμιο. Αυτοί οι δυο χαρακτήρες μαζί με τον Στόουνερ ειναι τα μόνα πρόσωπα που επέλεξε ο συγγραφέας να μας αναλύσει και να χτίσει πάνω τους ολοκληρωμένους χαρακτήρες με σκέψη, νόηση και αντιδράσεις. Όλοι οι άλλοι ήρωες του βιβλίου απλώς παίζουν βοηθητικό ρόλο με ανεξερεύνητο ψυχισμό περιστοιχίζοντας προσδιοριστικά τον ήρωα της τραγωδίας. Αποκτάει ένα παιδί και εκεί φαίνεται αρχικά να εκφράζει κάποια ανθρώπινα συναισθήματα αγάπης και ευτυχίας. Αρχικά, διότι μόλις η σύζυγος του αποφασίζει να τον αποκόψει απο την κόρη του και να διαχειριστεί τα πάντα μέσα στην οικογένεια ο Στόουνερ απλά βολεύεται, το δέχεται αναντίρρητα και συνεχίζει το έργο της διδασκαλίας και της συγγραφής βιβλίων. Πέρασε μέσα απο δυο παγκόσμιους πολέμους και τη μεγάλη Ύφεση στην Αμερική χωρίς να στρατεύτεί ή να βιώσει στο ελάχιστο τα δεινά που γράφτηκαν στις σελίδες της ιστορίας με αίμα. Συνεχίζει απτόητος την καθημερινότητα του μέσα στην απολαυστική δυστυχία του. Μέσα απο το άσυλο του πανεπιστημίου βλέπει τον έξω κόσμο και να γεννιέται, να ζει, να αλλάζει, να αγωνίζεται, να πεθαίνει σαν να παρακολουθεί ταινία καθαρά ενημερωτικού και ίσως εκπαιδευτικού χαρακτήρα. Γιορτάζει πολλές στιγμές προσωπικής ευτυχίας μέσα απο τη διδασκαλία και την μελέτη. Μόνο απο κει αποκομίζει χαρά απο τη ζοφερή ζωή του. Διδάσκει με σθένος και ζέση λογοτεχνικούς θησαυρούς της ανθρώπινης δημιουργίας και δεν καταφέρνει να διδαχθεί πως δεν παρατάμε αμαχητί οτιδήποτε στραβό ή κακό προκύψει στη ζωή μας. Παραμένει φυγόπονος και μεμψίμοιρος. Δίνει πραγματικό αγώνα στο πανεπιστήμιο και εκεί ήταν μια απο τις στιγμές που ειλικρινά χάρηκα και αναθάρρησα με τη στάση του. Παραμένει εγκάθετος στη θέση του σχετικά με κάποιον φοιτητή που θεωρεί πως δεν πληροί τις προδιαγραφές φοίτησης και προσπαθεί δυναμικά να τον απομακρύνει απο το πνευματικό και ιερό χώρο του πανεπιστημίου. Επιμένει ακόμη κι όταν αυτή του η απόφαση δημιουργεί άσχημες επιπτώσεις σε όλη την πορεία της καριέρας του. Κι ενώ εδώ θέλει και παλεύει με ήθος και αρχές για τα πιστεύω του απομακρύνεται σταθερά απο την κόρη του η οποία παραπαίει ανάμεσα σε κατάλοιπα και ψυχολογικά σύνδρομα. Όταν του ανακοινώνει πως είναι έγκυος απο κάποιον συμφοιτητή που δεν γνωρίζει καλά καλά, ο Στόουνερ αφήνει τις σκοτούρες και τα βάρη στην σύζυγο του και δέχεται τα πάντα τρέχοντας να κλειστεί στο γραφείο του για να συγγράψει το έργο του. Το παιδί του αποκτάει ενα γιο, χάνει στον πόλεμο τον σύζυγο της και καταντάει αλκοολική. Εδώ ο τραγικός πατέρας και πάλι δεν χάνει την απαθέστατη στάση του. Αφήνει το παιδί του έρμαιο και δεν βλέπει σχεδόν ποτέ το εγγόνι του. Σε διαφορετική περίπτωση θα έπρεπε να αλλάξει την τακτοποιημένη του ευτυχία και να παλέψει για τους αγαπημένους του. Ακόμη κι όταν σε κάποια φάση της μεσήλικης ζωής του ερωτεύεται και παθιάζεται με μια μικρότερη γυναίκα απο το χώρο του πανεπιστημίου δεν χάνει την κυρίαρχη παθητικότητα του. Στην πρώτη δυσκολία και αφού έχει νιώσει έστω για λίγο την απόλυτη ψυχική και σεξουαλική μέθεξη προτιμάει να χωρίσει απο εκείνη παρά να ξεφύγει απο την δυστυχισμένη μοιρολατρία που τον τρέφει. Ένας εκ του ασφαλούς και κατ’επιλογήν δυστυχισμένος κακομοίρης, που ειναι εντούτοις τακτοποιημένος οικογενειακά, επαγγελματικά και κοινωνικά,δεν μπορεί σε καμία περίπτωση να με κάνει να αισθανθώ κάτι άλλο εκτός απο αντιπάθεια, αδιαφορία και οργή. Συνοψίζοντας δυο κυρίως συμπεράσματα έκαναν την τελική αποτίμηση μου αρνητική. Πρώτον : Όλες οι ακαδημαϊκές επιδιώξεις του Στόουνερ - εκτός ελαχίστων στιγμών - παρουσιάζονται απο το συγγραφέα εκ διαμέτρου αντίθετες και ξεχωριστές σε σχέση με το κενό της μίζερης ζωής του. Δεύτερον: ο Στόουνερ βιώνει θετικά συναισθήματα σχετικά με την ενασχόληση του με τη λογοτεχνία. Όμως, κάθε πληροφορία που βιώνει απο την ανάγνωση και τη γραφή της μεγαλειώδους λογοτεχνίας που γεννήθηκε απο ελληνικές,λατινικές και αγγλικές παραδόσεις, δεν καταφέρνει να τον υποκινήσει, να τον ενθαρρύνει ή να του προτείνει να προβεί σε σημαντικές ή ασήμαντες προσαρμογές στην προσωπική του ζωή. Παραμένει άβουλος, αδρανής και κακομοίρης. Πεθαίνει απο καρκίνο γαλήνια στο σπιτι του κρατώντας στα χέρια του το πρώτο του βιβλίο. Όντας ετοιμοθάνατος το παιδί του τον επισκέπτεται μία μόνο φορά για του πει, περαστικά, θα το ξεπεράσεις. Καθρέφτης είναι η δράση μας ή η αδράνεια μας που δείχνει πως θα μας αντιμετωπίσουν οι άλλοι. Ένας συγγραφέας επομένως συμπερασματικά,καταλήγει πως η ανάγνωση της λογοτεχνίας δεν μας επιτρέπει, δε μας επιβάλλει να κατανοήσουμε σαφέστερα και πιο προσεκτικά ή συμπονετικά, να σκεφτούμε και να αναλάβουμε δράση στη δική μας ζωή. Τότε ποιο είναι το νόημα;Φιλολογική ή σύμφωνα με τους κανόνες γραμματικής και συντακτικού η προσέγγιση μας;Αυτό το βιβλίο σίγουρα δεν ήταν για εμένα. ❌Oops!❌ 🚫💵🚫 ❌❌ 😥 👐 👖 👞👞Καλή ανάγνωση. Πολλούς ασπασμούς.
1198199332	A must read!!!
6455140816	This might be the most “perfect” book I’ve read to date. No fluff. Nothing unnecessary. A truly gripping story of a terribly average man.My reading career is still young but this is the first book that’s made me truly introspective. I am so glad to have experienced this and I don’t think I’ll ever stop thinking about William Stoners life. This might be my favourite book of all time but I’m still thinking about it.
3796308929	„A lui era cartea pe care o căuta și cînd mîna a apucat‑o, a zîmbit la vederea vechii coperte roșii, decolorate și roase de vreme. Nu mai conta că fusese uitată și nu servea nimănui...” (p.268).Despre Stoner și istoria ciudată a acestui roman (ciudat el însuși) am scris deja. În 1965, la prima ediție, cartea n-a avut noroc. Acum vreau să scriu despre protagonist.William Stoner este un resemnat modic. Un specialist în renunțări. Nu are vise (prea mari), nu-și face iluzii (prea mari), nu e străbătut de vreo obsesie misterioasă, este omul obișnuit dintr-un edificiu academic obișnuit, șters, amorf, plat. În afară de o hărnicie fără spor - silința lui se manifestă îndeosebi la corectarea extemporalelor -, Stoner n-are nici o înzestrare ieșită din comun. Nici vicii prea acuzate, nici virtuți prea ascuțite. De pildă, după ce publică o carte (teza de doctorat), renunță foarte senin la scris. O dată pentru totdeauna. Nici iubirea pentru domnișoara Katherine Driscoll, cu ochii ei violeți, nu-l urnește din trista lui apatie. Ca atare, Stoner înregistrează calm, placid, binevoitor, fără a clipi, fără să-și plîngă de milă, fără să ridice pumnii (sărmanul Iov din Biblie măcar se mînia pe Dumnezeu), eșec după eșec. Stoner este un înfrînt predestinat. Atrage prin însăși prezența lui nenorocirile. Se mută acolo unde îl trimite soția lui. Doarme acolo unde i se poruncește. Acceptă pasiv ca Edith să distrugă viața și mintea fetei sale, nu face nici un gest pentru a-și salva copilul. Departe de a fi o femeie misterioasă, Edith însăși este o fantasmă victoriană: este femeia isterică și frigidă, combinația cea mai nefastă dintre toate. Stoner o nimerește tocmai pe ea. A avut ghinion încă o dată... Nu are nicicînd vreo inițiativă (am numărat o singură excepție: examenul), nu refuză nimic, este „mort și inert de îndată ce s-a născut”. Mai mult: evită cu prudență să se analizeze. Cînd se analizează, rezultatul este mai degrabă sumbru. Nici n-are cum ieși altfel:„Nu-i trecuse pînă atunci prin minte cum apărea el în ochii celorlalți, ai lumii. Preț de o clipă, a avut viziunea acelui individ... A zărit un tip jalnic, ajuns la mijlocul vieții, neînțeles de soție, care încearcă să-și regăsească tinerețea combinându-se cu o fată mult mai tînără decît el..., un clovn stupid în haine țipătoare... A privit această figură cu toată atenția, dar cu cît se uita, cu atît îi era mai puțin cunoscută. Cel pe care îl vedea nu era el și dintr-odată a înțeles că nu era de fapt nimeni” (p.197).În concluzie, John Williams a intenționat de la bun început să prezinte un loser. A reușit. Dar loserul mi-e antipatic exact pentru motivul că i-a reușit atît de bine lui John Williams. Nimic nu mă poate obliga să-l plac. Și, vorba unui amic: I am Soner too...P. S. De ce a fost Stoner un eșec la prima ediție: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
1110182140	Review on English, followed by the Bulgarian one. Ревюто на английски е първо, следва това на български.I could't read this book without pauses...It does not happen to me often, but at one point I could't go on. Don't know why...And the book is wonderful, sad and poignantly beautiful, as can be the life of each one of us.The author has a brilliant style and the story he has created equals for me to the works of old times master painters."Stoner" needs to be read carefully and than the reader have to take it's time to muse it!—————————————————————————Не можах да изчета тази книга наведнъж... Това не ми се случва често, но просто в един момент не можех да продължа. Не знам защо...А книгата е чудесна, тъжна и трогателно красива, както може да бъде красив живота на всеки един от нас. Авторът има блестящ стил и историята която е създал се равнява на картина на велик майстор - художник. "Стоунър" трябва да се прочете внимателно и да се осмисли!P.S. Към преводачката, която иначе е свършила отлична работа - сърните нямат лапки, а малки и много изящни копитца. Надявам се съм ви бил полезен. :)
1746283510	ENGLISH (Stoner) / ITALIANO«William Stoner entered the University of Missouri as a freshman in the year 1910, at the age of nineteen. Eight years later, during the height of World War I, he received his Doctor of Philosophy degree and accepted an instructorship at the same University, where he taught until his death in 1956. He did not rise above the rank of assistant professor, and few students remembered him with any sharpness after they had taken his courses. When he died his colleagues made a memorial contribution of a medieval manuscript to the University library. This manuscript may still be found in the Rare Books Collection, bearing the inscription: 'Presented to the Library of the University of Missouri, in memory of William Stoner, Department of English. By his colleagues.'»The first lines are also the perfect summary of the novel. Despite the tasteless life of Stoner that comes out of this short description, yet we are speaking about an unusual book. In my opinion Stoner is a masterpiece. The weird thing is that I am not able to say why. In the pages of John Williams the life of the protagonist flows straightforward. An ordinary life, chopped up by delusions rather than by happy times. Maybe this is the miracle of John Williams, to leave behind the proof that any existence is out of the ordinary. Even though the perceived greyness.Stoner's Axiom: every story of a lifetime needs to be told.Vote: 9 «Stoner si iscrisse all'Università del Missouri nel 1910, all'età di diciannove anni. Otto anni dopo, al culmine della prima guerra mondiale, gli fu conferito il dottorato in Filosofia e ottenne un incarico presso la stessa università, dove restò a insegnare fino alla sua morte, nel 1956. Non superò mai il grado di ricercatore, e pochi studenti, dopo aver frequentato i suoi corsi, serbarono di lui un ricordo nitido. Quando morì, i colleghi donarono alla biblioteca dell'università un manoscritto medievale, in segno di ricordo. Il manoscritto si trova ancora oggi nella sezione dei "Libri rari", con la dedica: "Donato alla Biblioteca dell'Università del Missouri in memoria di William Stoner, dipartimento di Inglese. I suoi colleghi"»L'incipit è anche il riassunto perfetto del romanzo. Eppure, nonostante la vita insipida di Stoner che viene fuori da questa breve descrizione, stiamo parlando di un libro fuori dal comune. Stoner è per me un capolavoro. La faccenda fuori dal normale è che non so spiegare bene il perché. Nelle pagine di John Williams scorre lineare la vita del protagonista, una vita come tante, scandita da delusioni più che da momenti felici. Forse è questo il miracolo di Williams, quello di consegnare ai posteri la prova che ogni esistenza è fuori dal comune. Nonostante l'ordinario, nonostante il grigiore percepito.Assioma di Stoner: non esiste una vita che non valga la pena di essere raccontata.Voto: 9
2559895973	An incredibly melancholy, wistful campus novel whose flurries of hope are always the perfect length - we root for Stoner, even knowing from the beginning where the story will end. There are incredible descriptions: marble stairs wearing down over 40 years; college greens stretching forever; memorable bodies on memorable characters; faces of loved ones flashing through light. And the supporting characters! One pleasure of this book is that no one, except a certain love interest, is particularly morally good, but every character, even the antagonist, is treated generously. And Stoner himself is an indelible creation - reminiscent of Lila in the Ferrante novels internally, with the facade of a big-handed shuffle of a man. His minor self-sabotage is an unusual pleasure throughout. The scenes depicting his love of teaching, his love of reading, are inspiring, and they reveal what is lost in the more slapsticky world of PNIN. Despite the frustrations of campus politics, teaching itself is at core a holy thing, and Williams understood that. That his book only achieved its reputation posthumously is, sadly, fitting. And the ending, which I won't spoil, is the best literary representation I've seen of the kind of ending it is.
826262147	This book is surprising, not so much for any plot twists or odd behavior, but for how we come to regard an overtly unremarkable man as interesting and likable. William Stoner was the only child at his family’s farm in Missouri, with a work-to-play ratio that was high even by turn-of-the-last-century standards. When he came of age, his father sat him down and explained in about two minutes’ time how he thought it best to send his son to college to study modern agriculture. It was the longest Stoner had ever heard his father speak in one stretch. Stoner continued to do farm work for room and board while going to classes. The Ag Sciences curriculum was all well and good, but in his sophomore year he was thrown for a loop in a required English class. The professor put him on the spot asking for his interpretation of a sonnet by Shakespeare, and suddenly his life that had been a matter of facts gave way to matters of opinion, feelings, and gray scales. He switched majors without counsel or delay. This was his awakening, though little of it showed. He was still something of a stoic -- compliant and resigned. He did manage to break from farm life, enter grad school in English (to ultimately become a professor), make a few friends and meet a girl he quickly asked to marry, but we were often told that he was an outside observer of his own life, like a character in a book he didn’t write. I don’t know if anyone else interprets Stoner this way, but he seemed to me to embody the reading experience itself -- the losing of one’s self in the text and the passive acceptance that life’s narratives play out according to some authorial design. Stoner steps outside of himself to observe from afar his bad marriage, the effects of academic politics badly played, and the fall-out when his wife used his relationship with their young daughter in an unaccountably nasty battle against him. It’s frustrating to see how his inactions impinge on his happiness. But we also sense a richer inner life because of his books and his view of himself in light of them.The first quarter of the book was, to be honest, a little slow. Before Stoner’s love affair with literature, he was a tabula rasa. That being the case, it was difficult at that stage to generate much conflict to drive the story. What would an internal struggle be against? Then, faintly at first, the tabula took on a few etch marks. I’m not sure you’d describe Stoner as an everyman, but he was certainly a type of man -- the type who would find himself in circumstances he lacked the proactiveness to avoid. He’d have been the prime example of how not to do things in self-help books. He sucked at office politics (having taken what he thought to be a principled stand against another professor who soon became the department head), he wasn’t particularly collegial, and he could scarcely sell his own enthusiasms. On the face of it, he was some combination of schlub, schlemiel, and schlimazel. A brief spell of passion was disallowed by the political environment, which I liken to a favorite book that simply ends… with no sequel forthcoming. He lacked what it took to write his own story.Williams, an academic himself, said in a rare interview that he never considered Stoner a loser. In fact, he regarded him as quietly heroic, doing his job with few people encouraging him or caring, true to his life of letters. Judging from the high ratings, plenty of other readers must have picked up on this narrow but deep fulfillment, too. We may not consider him the best model for self-actualization, but we appreciate his integrity. There was an affecting end to the book, too, which I don’t want to spoil. The bottom line is this: if my theory about Stoner representing the reading experience is right, those of us who like reading will like Stoner. It’s a syllogism, right? And even if we don’t like the man, we can still like the book.Stoner gets the NYRB Seal of Approval and, for that matter, mine as well.
917923688	“The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.”― Henry David Thoreau, I loved this novel! I’ve had this story downloaded for some time but I’ve always passed it over anticipating a dull and depressing slog…in spite of all the glowing reviews from my Goodreader friends. But, it was as compelling for me to read as any thriller. .The critic Morris Dickstein called Stoner, "something rarer than a great novel -- it is a perfect novel, so well told and beautifully written, so deeply moving, it takes your breath away.” I could not agree more with Dickstein’s account of this book. I was deeply moved by the story and I constantly rooted for this very gentle, introspective and solitary man throughout his futile attempts to achieve some sort of happiness, good fortune or pleasure…anything…please, god, help him out here! He deserved so much more than he ultimately received. And, when good things finally came his way, they were repeatedly transitory.Passive or non-assertive characters often frustrate me. Stoner never made me feel this way; mostly, because he seemed to navigate through so much adversity, disappointments and harassment without bitterness or blame. In fact, as the novel progresses, Stoner develops a greater strength of character and some sense of resignation about circumstances beyond his control even as his aloneness becomes more and more stark. I felt as though I actually knew this man. – it was such an intimate account of his life. The writing is remarkable - beautiful in its austerity, rich with a sense of place and period details of the early 20th century. The setting covers both world wars and touches on some of the Great Depression. The novel’s description of war is most profound and relevant even today. “A war doesn’t merely kill off a few thousand or a few hundred thousand young men. It kills off something in a people that can never be brought back. And if a people goes through enough wars, pretty soon all that’s left is the brute, the creature that we—you and I and others like us—have brought up from the slime.” This is a book about how we suffer…but, it is also about how a man can overcome and endure through all of it as well. It’s devastatingly gorgeous, A literary tour de force that I highly recommend reading!
2769059828	I have had my eye on this book for the last 3-4 years. I finally decided to move it to the top of my list when I saw there was no queue for it on the Libby App, and I was looking for a good book to start on right away. I knew about the tremendous ratings; most of my Goodreads friends who have read it gave it 5 stars. But I was curious as to how a rather mundane plot line could garner such praise. But I do trust my Goodreads friends, so I had to read it.Throughout the first third of the book, I was not overly impressed. I was thinking 3 stars during that time. The second third of the book started to pull me in in a way that puzzled me. It is the story of a rather boring fellow yet I found myself anxious to keep picking up the book. I was missing Rachel Maddow for it. 4 stars. The last third, though still the story of this quiet Everyman, really captured my heart. What is it that captivated me with this novel? I'm not sure, but I ended up loving it as evidenced by my 5 star rating. Part of it is John Williams' prose. It is not flowery, which I do not care for. It is nonetheless beautiful, yet so clear and communicable. And this man Stoner. He had a hard lonely life in many ways, but he always did his very best. And despite all his misgivings and occasional missteps, he was a good man at heart. He would not compromise right and wrong, except for one indiscretion that I thought he really deserved to veer off into considering his home life. He otherwise stuck to his principles and even knowingly did damage to his career by doing so. He also did his best with his family though he often felt like he failed them. He loved his job as an English literature teacher at a university. God, did he love his job. And despite very few (if any) accolades he continued to give it his all. I learned quite a bit about the university scene during the first half of the 20th century, especially at the graduate level. I even picked up some knowledge about Medieval English literature. I like to be educated by my reading. But most of all what I loved about this tale was this exquisite character study of a rather plain man William Stoner. As I neared the end of the book I was amazed at the warm feelings I had developed for Stoner, a man who for most of his life considered himself basically a failure.I am writing this review immediately after finishing the book as is my habit. I have a feeling however this one will be marinating in my brain for some time. I'm still not absolutely sure why is resonated so strongly with me, but I hope I can figure that out with time. I highly recommend Stoner for all looking for a magnificent character study. Special thanks go to my wonderful Goodreads friend David L., the one who finally persuaded me to open this book.Note: The edition I read has a fine introduction by John McGahern. You will better enjoy the book if you save that for last as it does contain numerous spoilers.
6309512963	This book is one of my all-time favourites, Stoner is one of my favourite characters (same as Pnin – even though they’re totally different). Williams is one of my favourite writers. Stoner is a farm boy, in the early twentieth century Missouri. His parents are restrained (putting it mildly). No affection shown, little or no words – just toil from sun up to sun down. One day, father comes up with the decision to send William Stoner to the University of Missouri. This surprisingly inspirational decision, changes everything for young Stoner. He eventually finds himself in the English department and enters the murky world of academia, the politics of jealousy, malice, and incredible workloads. I had no idea how brutal academia could be – I thought it would be like working in a florist, wearing slippers, skipping around with gentle adagios playing in the background!I don’t think I have read a book with so many significant, impactful, and frankly – emotionally gruelling storylines. Each one is worthy of a standalone book. Without giving anything away – these include: Stoner’s work at the University – with all of the internecine rivalries. Stoner’s marriage to Edith – this one will open your eyes. Stoner’s relationship with his daughter Grace. A romance that will sweep you off your feet. ………and more.Stoner is a stoic man. He has such inner strength, you will fall in love with him. I’m certain of that. But you will be battered from pillar to pillar, his journey is not smooth. You will detest a couple of the characters too – I did, my buddy readers did. I think the words “hate” and “detest” were even used by us from time to time (not me though, see I’m not like that 🤣).The writing is exquisite. I found this particularly true during the romance I mentioned earlier. It’s like Williams was writing/speaking to me, I swooned, leapt for joy, I was crushed too – Williams stripped me bare.That’s all I will say. If you haven’t read this, read it - it’s necessary. I loved Williams’ Augustus recently, but this one is my favourite. So good.I would like to thank my buddy readers, Diane and Antoinette, for our lively discussions, disagreements, different perspectives and for keeping me in line and reminding me not to project one’s own feelings into a character/situation. Loved it, you two – brilliant. Our Zoom meeting to summarise was a highlight too – finally meeting GR friends, good friends, it’s the best.5 StarsAntoinette’s review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Diane’s review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...#TeamStoner ❤️
2914192038	I met an old university professor of mine in London recently and when we chatted about novels he told me to read Stoner without delay. Now and again, I've come across an enthusiastic review of the novel by one of my GR friends but every time it came to choosing a new book I've favoured something else with a more exciting premise. After all, "William Stoner enters the University of Missouri at nineteen to study agriculture. A seminar on English literature changes his life, and he never returns to work on his father's farm" doesn't sound very exciting.But how that rather flat blurb belies how much excitement there is to be found in this novel. Initially it's the elegant and flawless artistry with which it's composed that creates what appears the simple trick of getting you deeply and anxiously sympathetic to Stoner himself. He's initially a shy awkward boy thrown into the sophisticated milieu of university life after a sheltered childhood on a farm. After an epiphany with his literature professor he abandons his agricultural studies to read English. This means betraying his simple but hugely sympathetic parents. Stoner eventually becomes a professor at the university and all seems to be going well until he makes a powerful enemy. Suddenly, I knew a deep apprehension about turning the page as I anticipated the next awful thing that was going to happen to poor William. His nemesis, Hollis Lomax, is a fabulous Mephistopheles character whose unflagging determination to bring down Stoner has its roots in mythology rather than realism but boy does it work well as a tension generator. Add to that poor Stoner marries the wrong woman. I would say the first half of the novel is more thrilling than the second half - his passivity begins to wear a bit thin as a plot device - but essentially my old university professor was right.
1327921165	ستونر قرأت تباعاً وبلا تخطيط مسبق ثلاثة روايات أمريكية، كل رواية منها قدمت لي شخصية فريدة من نوعها، قرأت (بابت) لسنكلير لويس فتعرفت على شخصية (جورج بابت)، ثم قرأت (ستونر) لجون ويليامز فتعرفت على شخصية (ويليام ستونر)، أما الرواية الثالثة (تحالف الأغبياء) فكانت لجون كينيدي تول وعرفتني على شخصية إغناطيوس رايلي، كل شخصية من هذه الشخصيات كانت تحمل سمات مضخمة بشكل هزلي يتم من خلالها نقد المجتمع الذي تدور حوله الرواية. شخصية (ويليام ستونر) هي أصعب هذه الشخصيات الثلاث، فستونر يبدو لنا إنساناً مفرغاً، يعيش حياة هادئة شكلاً، فارغة مضموناً، رغم أنه حقق ما يحلم الكثيرون في تحقيقه، صار بروفسوراً في جامعة، تزوج ورزق بابنة، تبدو هذه حياة ناجحة جداً في نظر الكثيرين، ولكن عندما نتجاوز السطح والظاهر، ونحاول التعمق نصدم بنوع من الفراغ، نوع من اختفاء الإنسانية، نوع من اختفاء الشغف في حياة ستونر، نراقب كيف يذهب ستونر لدراسة الزراعة ليعود فيعين والده ووالدته في مزرعتهم، ثم كيف يحول دراسته إلى الأدب، كيف يذهب أصدقاؤه للحرب العالمية الأولى ويموت أحدهم هناك، ولكنه لا يذهب، يلتقي بفتاة فيتزوجها ولكن علاقتهما لا تسير بشكل طبيعي، يرزقان بطفلة، يعيش حياة جامعية هادئة حتى يصطدم بأحد زملائه والذي يقف في وجه ترقيته ولسنوات طويلة، وكيف يقوم بلعبة سياسية ليستعيد شيئاً من حقوقه. هناك نوع غريب من الهدوء والبطء في الرواية، ولكنها تجذبك، تقرأها باهتمام وتتبع مصير ستونر حتى النهاية التي تعرفها منذ الصفحات الأولى، فستونر مثله مثل الكثيرين سينتهي إلى مجرد اسم يمكن لك أن تجده مصادفة في كتاب أو وثيقة تقلبها على عجل.
1098724923	I would have never thought the bland life of an unfulfilled midwestern professor could be so grasping. Stoner is not someone you want to know or be related to but his struggles are real and worth knowing about. At times, it appears he will find contentment (he is able to get out of the laborious life led by his parents) but his hardships are rough and his life is never lived for himself.
2129463713	Nessun uomo è qualunqueWilliams in quest'opera si rivela scrittore straordinario ( da notare che William è il nome proprio di Stoner, e come l'autore anche il personaggio è di origini contadine ed insegna per tutto l'arco lavorativo nella stessa Università).La prosa del romanzo è magnifica : semplice, scorrevole e senza alcuna enfasi giunge diretta nel cuore dei sentimenti del lettore : suscita interesse e commozione. Si avverte una disarmante autenticità che non può lasciare indifferenti.Lo scrittore racconta le vicende del suo personaggio con una tenerezza che non ho mai riscontrato altrove. Potendo fare un paragone, mi torna in mente solamente la toccante scrittura della svedese (Premio Nobel) Selma Lagerlof.Stoner, partito da un contesto agricolo, viene progressivamente conquistato dal fascino della Letteratura : "acquistò una consapevolezza di sé che non aveva mai avuto prima" e "per la prima volta nella vita prese coscienza della solitudine" ; i personaggi letterari, "li sentiva più vicini dei suoi stessi compagni".Sarà poi l'innamoramento a condurlo ad un matrimonio azzardato.L'autore , con profonda pietas, lo segue nei due ambiti della sua vita : quello privato e la 'carriera' di insegnante. L'ambiente universitario rivela molte meschinità, anche se in esso il nostro protagonista riesce a trovare la via onesta per la propria realizzazione. Intanto scorre la Storia internazionale : la 'Grande Guerra', la crisi del '29, la Seconda Guerra Mondiale ... Tutto osservato ovviamente da un punto di vista statunitense.Un libro capace di sorprendere il lettore, soprattutto se coltiva un certo stereotipo di letteratura americana. Qui i 'luoghi comuni' sono destinati a essere superati dalla felice sorpresa di trovarsi al cospetto di un libro autentico, fra i più belli del '900.
1258831544	Let me stop for a minute to try to understand what this book caused in me. Look, I could start by saying what it's about, but that won't do it justice. Because it's like one of those paintings by Edward Hopper, where everyone is frozen in time in their loneliness and loss. Except here they are all together, they live in the same house, and work in the same university. There's more, though. In all the loss that these characters go through, maybe unsatisfactory lives, maybe misunderstandings of all kinds, or a lack of communication between them, there is passion underneath it all, the authors passion for life. It seeps through every word, and frustration. Maybe it's that. I couldn't put this book down, until I finished it, it moved something in me which is hard to explain, because nobody ever wins here. Not William Stoner, or his wife and daughter, nor his lover, his parents or his enemies. It's all just sad. But it's told in a way that made me feel completely alive and involved. Great discovery for me this one. I believe it is his most autobiographical work, and he only published three books. I have two left. I'll try to read more slowly then, so I don't run out so soon.
2517130874	هي واحدة من تلك الروايات التي تغير من نظرتك للحياة للأبد. رواية حزينة تتناول الحياة المأساوية ل "ويليام ستونز" أستاذ مساعد الأدب الإنجليزي في واحدة من جامعات الغرب الأوسط الأمريكي في ثلاثينات وأربعينات القرن الماضي بما حفلت من صراعات وتغيرات سياسية واجتماعية. كان "ستونز" إنسانا عاديا، ابنا لمزارعين، قررت عائلته إرساله لدراسة الزراعة بجامعة ميزوري لمساعدتهم في تطوير المزرعة، فقرر تغيير مساره التعليمي ودراسة الأدب الإنجليزي، ثم تدريسه، تزوج من امرأة خاطئة وعاش زواجا تعيسا. كان مدرسا غير محبوب، وغير مميز، لم يمنحه زملاؤه تقديراً خاصاً أثناء حياته نادراً ما يتحدثون عنه، كبار السن يرون أنه تذكير للنهاية التي تنتظرهم، أما الشباب فيعتبرونه مجرد صوت لا معنى له من الماضي.عاش مستسلمًا لمسارات الحياة كما حددها الآخرون، حياة تعيسة مليئة بالإخفاقات والصدمات و بالخصوم، "لوماكس" خصمه علي المستوي المهني، شن حربا طويلة ضده من أجل طالبه المعاق الذي عاني من فشل متكرر متنكرًا في إعاقته، وكان في قرارة نفسه يعتبر ستونز وغدًا حقيرًا غير مبالي. أما زوجته فهي شخصية هستيرية لديها فراغ عاطفي كبير، نشأت في أسرة أرستقراطية كان شغلها الشاغل أن تعلم ابنتها مهارات الزينة والمظاهر عديمة الجدوي، فتحطمت أحلامها بعد الزواج، حاولت أن تمارس هذه السيطرة علي ابنتها أيضًا ومنعها من والدها ، فاستغلت أول فرصة للهروب من هذا الجحيم. أسوأ ما في الأمر أنها تفعل كل هذا متعمدة ولكن غير واعية. انطلاقا من كل هذه المضامين مثلت الجامعة الملاذ الآمن لستونز. صدرت الرواية للمرة الأولي عام 1965 للأمريكي جون وليامز الأستاذ بجامعة دنفر، والذي كان ينتمي لأسرة مزاعين أيضا مثل بطل روايته مما ساعده علي بناء رواية أكاديمية قوية إذ استبعدنا الشكوك القائة بأن هذه الرواية سيرته الشخصية. لم تحظ الرواية بالشهرة والتوزيع اللائق وقتها في المجتمع الأمريكي، ويعلل أحد النقاد ذلك باعتبارها رواية مناهضة لنموذج "غاتسبي العظيم" لـ سكوت فيتزجيرالد، نموذج الرجل الناجح الذي يجمع أكبر قدر من المال، ويقابل فتاة أحلامه، ويجمع الكثير من الأصدقاء، النموذج الذي داعب أضعف ما في النفس البشرية. أما نموذج ستونز فهو النقيض تماما. لاحقا تُرجمت الرواية للفرنسية علي يد وأصبحت من الكتب الأكثر مبيعا في أوروبا، فانتبه الأمريكان للأمر وأُعيد طبعها ونشرها في بلدها بعد وفاة كاتبها.نموذج ستونز هو نموذج الفشل الذي تجسده حياته ببرودة وموضوعية، أراد الصداقة وقربها الذي يبقيه في سباق الرجال، حظي بصديقين، مات أحدهما عبثا في الحرب العالمية الأولي، وتراجع الآخر بعيدا. أراد سكن الزواج وقربه الوطيد. حظي بظي بذلك أيضا، ولم يعرف ماذا يفعل به، وقد راح. أراد الحب، وحظي به، وتخلي عنه، تركه يذهب لغياهب الأحتمالات, أراد أن يكون أستاذا، وقد صار كذلك ولكن بعد أن أجبر علي الاستقالة. قضي أغلب حياته لا يبالي. كان يحلم بكمال ما، بنقاء غير منقوص، فوجد الحل الوسط والميل المهين للتفاهات. تطلع إلي الحكمة، ووجد في نهاية السنين الطوال الجهل.ماذا كنت تتوقع؟ “أن تتوقع أن يعاملك العالم برفق لأنك إنسان طيب، أشبه بأن تتوقع ألا يلتهمك الأسد لأنك نباتي لا تأكل اللحوم”ماذا كنت تتوقع وأنت تمارس كل هذه السلبية يا ستونز؟ لماذا لم تصرخ! لماذا لم ترفض! لماذا لم تلعن! يصعب علي أن أحدد موقف حازم تجاه ستونز، هل أشفق عليه لما تعرض له؟ أم أغضب علي سلبيته وعجزه؟! كانت ثمة نعومة تحيط به، سري في أطرافه خدر وانتابه شعور قوي بهويته. كان يعرف ما ما هو عليه بحق. مشهد النهاية كان استكمالا لحياة رتيبة، عاش مخلصا للأدب والكتب، ومات وليس في يده إلا كتاب. خذله الجميع حتي في نهايته.ستونز نص سردي مبدعالترجمة ممتازة أضافت للنص
7575581160	☆☆ "Who are you? A simple son of the soil, as you pretend to yourself? Oh, no. You, too, are among the infirm--you are the dreamer, the madman in a madder world, our own midwestern Don Quixote without his Sancho, gamboling under the blue sky". I’d been eyeing Stoner for ages. It sat on my “must-read” list, whispered about in literary circles as a quiet masterpiece, even recommended to me as essential pre-university reading. "It captures the academic life," they said. "It’s profound," they promised. With high hopes, I finally cracked it open.Ooooh, holy molly… what a colossal disappointment.The opening pages held a certain stark promise – the birth of William Stoner, the humble farm boy turned academic. There was a simplicity, a gravity to the prose that felt weighty and intentional. I settled in, expecting… something. A revelation? A transformation? A plot?Somewhere around page70, I realized I wasn’t reading a story with direction; I was bearing witness to the slow, meticulous documentation of a life defined by crushing monotony and passive suffering. Stoner’s existence felt less like a narrative arc and more like a flatline punctuated by minor, predictable miseries. His disastrous marriage to Edith wasn’t a twist; it was a slow-motion train wreck you saw coming from miles away. His career struggles weren’t gripping conflicts; they were bureaucratic damp squibs. It was like reading about a man perpetually stuck in the worst Monday of his life – over and over and over. And frankly, I live my own Mondays; I didn’t need 300 pages of someone else’s. "not that you'd fight the world. You'd let it chew you up and spit you out, and you'd lie there wondering what was wrong. Because you'd always expect the world to be something it wasn't, something it had no wish to be. The weevil in the cotton, the worm in the beanstalk, the borer in the corn. You couldn't face them, and you couldn't fight them; because you're too weak, and you're too strong. And you have no place to go in the world." There was one fragile thread I clung to: William's relationship with his daughter, Grace. In the suffocating void of his marriage, his love for her felt achingly real, a rare spark of genuine warmth and vulnerability. Watching Edith systematically poison that bond, witnessing Stoner's helplessness to protect his only source of pure joy, was perhaps the novel's most devastating, effective cruelty. This small, tender connection briefly illuminated the profound failure of his marriage and the depth of his isolation. Yet, even this glimmer was ruthlessly extinguished, plunging us back into the unrelenting gloom. It was this arc, more than any other, that crystallized the book's bleak message for me: a terrifying portrait of how life can systematically dismantle every potential source of happiness, leaving only the hollow consolation of endurance. Stoner’s trajectory felt like a horrifying cautionary tale. It made me viscerally fear: Could this be me? Could choosing the wrong major, the wrong partner, trap me in a similar life of quiet resignation? Could I, too, end up finding my only solace in dusty books, surrounded by a melancholy I never chose? The thought was chilling – a bad nightmare made literary flesh. It forced me to confront a terrifying possibility the author seemed eager to scream: Sometimes, true happiness isn't an option. Sometimes, survival is the victory, however pyrrhic.Beyond Grace's tragedy, the sheer predictability became suffocating. Every other setback, every small cruelty (especially from Lomax), every missed opportunity unfolded with a grim inevitability that robbed the story of tension or surprise. Combined with the glacial pacing – pages devoted to the minutiae of academic politics, the texture of despair, the weight of silent resignation – the reading experience became an exercise in endurance. The much-lauded prose, while precise, felt emotionally distant, observing Stoner’s suffering like a scientist behind glass. It created a barrier; I saw his pain, but I rarely felt it beyond a sense of profound weariness. The bleakness wasn’t cathartic; it was just… heavy. Relentlessly heavy.And that ending? After trudging through decades of Stoner’s quiet desperation, hoping for some glimmer of meaning, resolution, or even just a poignant release beyond the tragedy of Grace… it landed with a thud of utter insignificance. It felt less like a conclusion and more like the book simply ran out of pages. God knows, I would have gladly expired before reaching it if it meant escaping the oppressive atmosphere. It wasn’t just unsatisfying; it felt like the final, crushing confirmation that the entire journey had been an elaborate exercise in documenting futility without offering any deeper insight to justify the slog. "Life, like a dome of many-colored glass, Stains the white radiance of eternity, Until Death tramples it to fragments". If the core message is indeed that happiness is often unattainable and endurance is the only solace... mission accomplished, I suppose. But for me, that message, delivered through such unrelenting passivity and predictable misery, felt less like profound truth and more like a suffocating blanket. Was it about quiet dignity? Stoner’s surrender felt devoid of it. A critique of academia? The setting felt secondary to the universal gloom. A stark portrait of an ordinary, unhappy life? The execution left me cold, frustrated, and deeply unsettled by the personal fears it unearthed – not enlightened.I understand Stoner has ardent admirers who find beauty in its restraint and profundity in its melancholy. Perhaps it resonates deeply with those who connect to its specific brand of quiet suffering or appreciate its unflinching gaze at life’s inherent disappointments. For me, however, it was a masterclass in how to make profound themes feel utterly inert. It lacked the narrative drive, emotional connection beyond fleeting moments, or any sense of counterbalance I crave. It wasn’t moving; it was draining. It wasn’t profound; it was ponderous and profoundly depressing in a way that offered no catharsis, only dread.My copy of Stoner is now firmly destined for the donation pile. I truly wish I’d never picked it up. If you love introspective, slow-burn character studies steeped in unrelenting bleakness and find resonance in the idea that happiness might be a luxury, this might be your holy grail. If you need any sense of plot, pacing, character agency, catharsis, or hope… consider this a stark warning: Proceed at your own emotional peril. You might just find yourself trapped in someone else’s endless Monday, confronting nightmares about your own future.ʚɞ__________________________________ʚɞ "In his extreme youth Stoner had thought of love as an absolute state of being to which, if one were lucky, one might find access; in his maturity he had decided it was the heaven of a false religion, toward which one ought to gaze with an amused disbelief, a gently familiar contempt, and an embarrassed nostalgia. Now in his middle age he began to know that it was neither a state of grace nor an illusion; he saw it as a human act of becoming, a condition that was invented and modified moment by moment and day by day, by the will and the intelligence and the heart.""war doesn't merely kill off a few thousand or a few hundred thousand young men. It kills off something in a people that can never be brought back. And if a people goes through enough wars, pretty soon all that's left is the brute, the creature that we-- you and I and others like us--have brought up from the slime.""There are wars and defeats and victories of the human race that are not military and that are not recorded in the annals of history."ʚɞ__________________________________ʚɞ
4141111362	I first became aware of this novel in 2004 or so, when I read in a review that this was a long-lost book that was a remarkable novel and that it deserved more widespread attention. The review intrigued me, so I got a hardback edition (Viking Publishing, 1965) from Abebooks rather than the re-issued paperback (Vintage, 2003) because I preferred the hardback to paperback. Anyway, upon reading it, I gave it an ‘a+++’, my highest rating back in the day. I guess in GR ratings, I would have given it 5 stars and ‘10 stars if I could’. I decided to re-read it today because I had read a couple of loser books recently and needed to get back to enjoying reading. And indeed I did – I read this in one sitting. I could not put it down. What an interesting man and a life, and what wonderful, wonderful writing by John Williams. William Stoner, a man who did not make a lot of noise in this world, and a man who experienced a hunk of sadness in his life, but also found love for some brief period of time through a sweet love affair. A man who fell in love with literature and teaching. He married a frigid woman. It was sad – she was raised by her well-to-do but cold parents to be nothing more than a good little wife, but led such a cloistered life prior to her marriage, that it was bound to fail. And yet even at the end…• “They had forgiven themselves for the harm they had done each other, and they were rapt in a regard of what their life together might have been.”A wonderful and touching and inspiring and moving novel. I hope if you have not read it, you do. Reviews:• An excellent review but read it after you read the novel…it gives too much away regarding the story line and the story’s characters: https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-... • This is another excellent review…it’s by a great UK novelist, Julian Barnes: https://www.theguardian.com/books/201... • https://lithub.com/the-fall-and-rise-... Note:• From the last review above… “At the first book group discussion of Stoner I ever led, a former colleague of mine from Boston College appeared, rather unexpectedly. He was an elderly professor of literature whom I had imagined as indifferent to modern novels. He sat in silence until the very end of the evening, when, with a certain hesitant ceremony, he withdrew a faded newspaper clipping from the breast pocket of his sports coat.He told us that he had been one of the few critics to review Stoner when it was first published and had dismissed the novel as arid and unoriginal, a minor work. I remember him regarding the clipping in bewilderment, as though it were bloody knife that had materialized in his hand. “I can’t imagine what I was thinking,” he said softly. “I suppose I was a young man, jealous of the achievement.” 😮
4333924058	This is Why We Read.
2018295359	5★“In the University library he wandered through the stacks, among the thousands of books, inhaling the musty odor of leather, cloth, and drying page as if it were an exotic incense.. . . But before William Stoner the future lay bright and certain and unchanging. He saw it, not as a flux of event and change and potentiality, but as a territory ahead that awaited his exploration. He saw it as the great University library, to which new wings might be built, to which new books might be added and from which old ones might be withdrawn, while its true nature remained essentially unchanged.”Many readers know what it is to lose all sense of time, daydreaming in a library. For the impoverished farm boy who grew up to attend university and fall in love with Literature, the life ahead of him as a teacher held the same promise - to grow, expand, but remain essentially himself.“Stoner” is a classic of its kind. Written in 1965, it harks back to the American generation before then, that of post World War 1, when family farming in the mid-western state of Missouri still relied on manual labour. William Stoner was an only child and the only farm labour his family could rely on. He never questioned that farming would be his lot in life.But his father said a county agent reckoned it would be good if William studied ag science at the nearby university's new agriculture college. And so it was decided. What they didn’t reckon with was William falling in love with his English classes and switching his subjects from Agriculture to English.At university, he comes across to Americans as an Abe Lincoln kind of figure.“In every season he wore the same black broadcloth suit, white shirt, and string tie; his wrists protruded from the sleeves of the jacket, and the trousers rode awkwardly about his legs, as if it were a uniform that had once belonged to someone else.”I loved William’s blossoming love of the written word and the spell he fell under as he studied the classics, plays, languages, poetry. I don’t have enough classical knowledge to really appreciate the references to classical literature, Renaissance poetry, and the like, but I know enough to admire the breadth of Stoner’s interest and passion, not to mention the author’s.“As his mind engaged itself with its subject, as it grappled with the power of the literature he studied and tried to understand its nature, he was aware of a constant change within himself;. . . ”In the introduction by John McGahern, there is an excerpt from an interview that author John Williams gave to Brian Wooley.“Williams complains about the changes in the teaching of literature and the attitude to the text ‘as if a novel or poem is something to be studied and understood rather than experienced.’ Wooley then suggests playfully, ‘It’s to be exegeted, in other words.’ [explained, interpreted] ‘Yes. As if it were a kind of puzzle.’‘And literature is written to be entertaining?’ Wooley suggests again, ‘Absolutely. My God, to read without joy is stupid.’”Absolutely indeed! How could I not admire an author whose prose is of such a high standard that it flows like the best ‘literature’ and is completely absorbing and entertaining? I loved this. It is not a book I was ever tempted to skim for plot points or interesting reveals but one to enjoy slowly. And enjoy it I certainly did.I loved watching a simple young man grow into a thoughtful, complicated, dedicated, passionate teacher who deals with some dreadful people in his life (whom I wanted to throttle!). He accepted his lot, did what needed to be done (cooking, housekeeping) and then lost himself in his books.There is a wife, Edith, (whom I’d like to have throttled). “Entitled” is what we would call her today.“She was educated upon the premise that she would be protected from the gross events that life might thrust in her way, and upon the premise that she had no other duty than to be a graceful and accomplished accessory to that protection, since she belonged to a social and economic class to which protection was an almost sacred obligation.”The only couples Stoner really knows are his stoic, undemonstrative parents and the selfish aunt and uncle he lives with while studying. They use him as free farm labour and offer no affection. To be fair to Edith, her role models are worse.“Her parents behaved toward each other with a distant courtesy; Edith never saw pass between them the spontaneous warmth of either anger or love. Anger was days of courteous silence, and love was a word of courteous endearment. She was an only child, and loneliness was one of the earliest conditions of her life.”I’m afraid I’ve made this sound dark and grim, but it is most definitely not. It is the story of a life, a full life, a fulfilling life, but like all lives, one which the man himself doubts has value. Who makes that judgement call? Who decides whose life has what value? I was told once by an activist friend who started a kindergarten for poor children (and did all kinds of things like that), that she was nothing special. Other people spun a finer web and spread their influence further, on a different scale to more places.So while Stoner may have doubted the value of his passion for obscure poetry or literature, there is no doubt that the many students whose work he influenced, whose dissertations he oversaw, would have been deeply and permanently affected by this exceptional man.An absolute favourite. I read this during the Coronavirus lockdown in Australia as part of the Aussie Readers 6-month Covid 19 challenge. I decided to choose only books on my Pick-Me list, books I’ve especially wanted to read but kept putting off to read previews and new books. Silly me. What have I been waiting for? What are YOU waiting for? Pick some!NOTE: Do NOT read the introduction at the front of the book first! Spoiler alert! But it's interesting to read after.
647478410	8/23/19On this, my fourth reading of arguably the most perfect novel ever written, I found myself often in physical pain from the emotions and the reality I became part of the instant I began reading each day. My first time reading Stoner, I of course had no idea what was coming and finished the book absolutely stunned by the story and the magnificence of the writing.The second and third times I read this book, I was consciously studying it, in awe of the technique.I tried, in this fourth reading, to study, but that kind of headiness wouldn’t hold against my emotions, as I felt the atmosphere around and in me become both dense and vibratingly vibrant for the entire time I read. This time, since I know the story so well, I was astounded by the writing of Stoner’s wife, Edith—I saw how well and fully she is written. Many readers dismiss her as a monster, but if you read again, you may see the psychological perfection of the growth of her character. And I think because I was so at one with the characters, particularly William Stoner, feeling the pain in the earlier part of the book, this time I felt a full release at the end. Yes, I still cried, but the full radiance of the ending—which I don’t think I was prepared for in the earlier read-throughs—was mine.I remain in awe.2/16/18Because I'm swimming in this book once more, and because of the video (see below), I learned about this 2013 BBC interview with Ian McEwan, in whose books I have also been swimming. McEwan is similarly enamored with Stoner and I find myself wondering if his On Chesil Beach may even be an homage to it.2/13/18I have just discovered a documentary about the effect of this book. The Art of Becoming. Magnificent. I recommend this for people who have already read Stoner and are as in love and obsessed with it as I am. It is so nice to have the company of the people in this documentary.2/14/16Scroll down to see earlier reviews. I swore I would not review or add to this review again, but I lied. I finished reading Stoner for the third time yesterday, and this book seems to get more powerful with every reading. In John Williams’s letters that follow the book in the 50th anniversary edition, one learns that Williams’s original title for this book was A Matter of Love. I prefer Stoner because of its dignity and weight, but I understand Williams’s fixation on the first title. This book is about all matters of love: love that persists no matter how much it is squashed, suppressed, rejected, or maligned. And love that is unknown. The greatest pain we human beings can know is not the love that we are denied, but love that we are not allowed to give. This was Stoner’s journey. I am, for the third time, a puddle.11/2/15Oh, oh, oh, I just received my 50th anniversary hardcover edition (GR doesn't have the cover posted yet; here it is.)(It is currently 30% off at NYRB) It doesn't have a dust jacket, but it does have a paper sleeve with praise from stellar people, and at the top, under the title and author's name, it says "The International Best Seller."I mention this because this edition includes letters from John Williams to his agent in which he seems to foretell the future of this book, despite massive discouragement. These letters are so wonderful because they give you a feeling for John Williams, the man. How clear, savvy, and aware he was of exactly what he had created—with almost no validation:From his agent, Marie RodellNow, from a business point of view: I may be totally wrong, but I don't see this as a novel with a high potential sale. Its technique of almost unrelieved narrative is out of fashion, and its theme to the average reader could well be depressing. . . .From John WilliamsI suspect that I agree with you about the commercial possibilities; but I also suspect that the novel may surprise us in this respect. . . . The only thing I'm sure of is it that it's a good novel; in time it may even be thought of as a substantially good one. A great deal more is going on in the novel than appears on the surface, and its technique is a great deal more "revolutionary" than it appears to be. Despite this, it is, I think available to the ordinary reader; or at least I hope it is. One afternoon a few weeks ago, I walked in on my typist (a junior history major, and pretty average, I'm afraid) while she was finishing typing chapter 15, and discovered great huge tears coursing down her cheeks. I shall love her forever.I shall love John Williams forever.9/27/15I'm overdue for my yearly read of Stoner; next time will be the third time. But I'm glad I've waited because on November 3, a fiftieth anniversary hardcover edition, including John Williams's letters to his agent about his frustration finding a publisher, will be published. I'm already lusting for my copy. I know others similarly revere this book, so I thought I'd add to my review now, giving the website where you can get an alert about the new edition: http://www.nyrb.com/products/stoner-1...* * *One of the most brilliantly written books I've ever read. Where to begin?In 278 pages, Williams manages to write an evolution of time and character that is epic, iconic, and almost mythological in its simplicity. The economy of the writing paradoxically creates a massive undertow of drama and contained emotion. The build of the plot and a whole lifetime of change contained in this book is a lesson to all writers on how to simply tell a story. No tricks. No showing off. Pure, insanely brilliant writing.* * * Almost a year since writing the above, I have just reread this magnificent book. It is even better the second time. I read it to see how Williams did it, and what jumps out at me this time is his astonishing and impeccable timing--the way he piles narrative and facts. He almost never tells you what somebody feels; instead he piles on facts, making time flow in what feels like the most organic way but which is in fact sped up so that years can pass in a paragraph. The pressure of the facts creates deep emotions in the reader. This is one of the best master class reads I've ever done. Thank you, Mr. Williams.
2250590430	Δεν μου έχουν αφηγηθεί ποτέ ξανά μια τόσο βαρετή ιστορία τόσο αριστουργηματικά!
1822350226	Of course, I can't be objective, but my philosophy prof partner is beautiful inside and out, with an otherworldly mind and delightful character. He is also somewhat an "odd duck" (Asperger's much??) somewhat similar to Stoner, except he was raised in New York by artist parents, and always had the academic knack. We read this sequentially last summer at a lake rental way up the coast here in Maine, and when he brought it to me over the porch he had tears in his eyes. Both of us, until this year, were approaching fiction as "cheating", when there was so much scholarly and political literature to keep up on! Reading Stoner (especially after we listened to Skippy Dies) opened us both back open to the wisdom of fiction. (In the case of Stoner, it made my old man finally decide it was time to consider retiring, still as vital with research, publication, and teaching as ever, but, at age 75, still.) Eventually, we let go of everything. The trick is realizing that sooner than later, but to hold principles and ideas and people what you can when you can for as long as you can. Sorry to end on a "downer" note, but the only thing I hated was the portrayal of the bizarre behavior of the wife. (It's always the crazy women who bring men such pain!) The scene with her waiting all day in bed naked waiting to be fertilized was silly and would only be written about a woman by a man. It doesn't seem plausible for mentally ill women to do that, much less your "typical" alienated, depressed, angry, cold-hearted wife. The other piece that went roughshod over my emotions was the prototypical, I'm afraid, horrifically petty and mean-spirited politics in the echelons of higher education. We really don't know anything ever, do we? People that think they know the most often treat people the worst.Loved this book, though, and the character of Stoner, and the view of society and and passing time in one life that the author illustrated through Stoner.
2301039344	Ο Στόουνερ είναι στα καλύτερα, εάν όχι το καλύτερο βιβλίο που διάβασα φέτος. Ή στην ζωή μου, δεν ξέρω.Τον Ιούνιο, μου το δώρισε η φίλη μου η Αγγελική και ήδη ήξερα πως θα το διαβάσω αργότερα· δεν είναι και εύκολο να πιάσεις ένα ογκώδες ανάγνωσμα και να το πηγαινοφέρνεις μέσα στα λεωφορεία που αφήνεις τη ζωή σου. Όμως, σε κάποιες περιπτώσεις, όπως αυτή, το κέρδος είναι μεγάλο και θες να το σύρεις όπου πας, ακόμα και μάταια, διότι είναι μεγάλη παρηγοριά. Είναι σαν να κουβαλάς έναν εξαιρετικό φίλο που η παρέα του σε αποζημιώνει για το βάρος του.Πρόκειται για την ζωή του Γουίλιαμ Στόουνερ, ενός ακαδημαϊκού. Τι το συναρπαστικό υπάρχει εδώ; Τα πάντα. Η πένα του συγγραφέα καταφέρει να πλάσει ένα αδιόρατο γκρίζο σύννεφο που μας ακολουθεί, όσο προσπαθούμε να καταλάβουμε ποιος είναι και τι θέλει ο πρωταγωνιστής του. Η θλίψη αυτή έρχεται ως μονοτονία, ως ένα πέπλο δυστυχίας που δε μπορεί να μας εγκαταλείψει και όχι ως δυνατές κρίσεις πόνου που έρχονται και φεύγουν.Δεν υπάρχουν μεγάλα γνωμικά εδώ, δεν υπάρχουν σπουδαίες αλήθειες και αφηγήσεις, δεν υπάρχουν ξεκάθαρα συμπεράσματα να υπογραμμίσουμε. Δεν ξέρουμε εάν είναι ένα βιβλίο για το ατελείωτο κυνήγι της γνώσης ως άγιο δισκοπότηρο, για το Πανεπιστήμιο, για τα χαρτιά που μαζεύουμε, εάν είναι ένα βιβλίο για την οικογένεια, τον πόλεμο, τον πόλεμο μέσα σε μια οικογένεια, ή τελικά εάν αφορά τον έρωτα. Μα δεν θα ήταν ρεαλιστικό εάν αφορούσε ένα μόνο πράγμα και αυτό το βιβλίο είναι όντως ρεαλιστικό. Δεν οδηγεί και δεν ικανοποιεί, διότι τις περισσότερες φορές έτσι είναι η ζωή εκτός προνομίου, σε σπρώχνει, δεν την σπρώχνεις και οι συνθήκες πέφτουν σαν ασήκωτος ουρανός και σκεπάζουν όλα τα υπόλοιπα.Ο Στόουνερ μέσα στην απλότητά του διέπεται από ένα αφοπλιστικό μεγαλείο ψυχής, διότι είναι πάνω απ’ όλα έντιμος και όταν θεριεύει η ποταπότητα και η μνησικακία μέσα του, ο συγγραφέας τον επαναφέρει μαλακά στην πραγματικότητα, σαν να ήταν καλός του φίλος. Το προτείνω με όλη μου την ψυχή.ΥΓ. Αγάπησα περισσότερο απ’ όλους τον Μάστερς, ο οποίος μάλλον απέδρασε από κάποιο έργο του Ντοστογιέφσκι και βρέθηκε ανάμεσα σε αυτές τις σελίδες.
3641158795	A dread deepens within me as years pass by, of being perpetually unhappy. As the obsessionto be flares up. What is this life if full of care, for things that will but matter so little in the longrun. In me there is, a deep seated fear of a loveless life, a life so drought of happiness, a life justin calendars year after year, a mound of drab days into days piled hurriedly and lived little. Onemust have something to smile about when they're to shut their eyes for good. A kiss so deepand long that you shudder at the memory of it's passion, a face alighted so bright at mention ofyour name, a voice humming inside your head in distress for years to come,there must besomething to hold onto, as we loose our grip and bid farewell.Stoner evoked in me such tragic lucidity of life's barrenness as i'd ever had a taste of .The story of his life is not a neat crescendo of industry and triumph, but something more akin to our own lives: a muddle of desires and inhibitions and compromises. In me i felt the deep seated quietness ruffle and walk through the corridors of Missouri university,beside stooped Stoner hand in hand. His awkwardness accentuated by his humble inheritance had me in for an almost motherly tender for him. A part of me was assuaging his grave chasms of disappointments he met in both his static career and horror of an abnormal domestic life. He chose in passion and chose wrong, in shape of his psychic life partner, he bought himself a lifelong torment.He suffers no delusions about his place in the world. He recognizes that others find him absurd and that his intellectual contributions to his arcane field are at best minor. Over and over again, Stoner is forced to confront his own weakness, his limitations as a son and father and husband and scholar. And yet he refuses to turn away.As Stoner lies dying, his creator observes: “There was a softness around him, and a languor crept upon his limbs. A sense of his own identity came upon him with a sudden force, and he felt the power of it. He was himself, and he knew what he had been.”
1881945678	كان طفلًا بريئًا، وُلد لأسرة فقيرة مُكوّنة من أبٍ مزارع يكافح من أجل لقمة عيشه وأمٍ حانية طيبة القلب رغم بؤس الحياة المهيمن على عالمها الصغير، نشأ بفطرة مُشبّعة بالطيبة، كان هادئًا للغاية، لا تكاد تشعر بوجوده حولك، يقضي أيامه بروتينية لا يملّ منها ولا يكاد يعترض عليها؛ ثم مرت السنوات وصار الطفل رجلًا، التحق بالجامعة، بحث فيها عن سبب لوجوده في هذه الحياة، فتدّرج في الجامعة حتى صار أستاذًا جامعيًا، مهمشًا كان في البداية، ثم تحول دون إرادته، ووفق أحداث وصراعات فرضت نفسها عليه، إلى أسطورة بين طلابه وبين باقي زملاء المهنة. ظلت حياته خاوية رغم نجاحه، فإذا به يتزوج زواجًا عاديًا بلا عاطفة متأججة أو حبٍ جامح، فقط لأنه شعر أن لا بأس من الزواج مثل باقي الرجال، لعل زواجه يملأ خواء روحه ويرمّم شروخ حياته التي لا يعلم متى نشأت أساسًا. ببرودة مشوبة بالكآبة مضتْ سنوات شبابه، بين جامعته وأسرته الصغيرة، برفقة زوجة لا تقل عنه خواءًا، وعدته يومًا أنها ستحاول أن تجعله سعيدًا ولكنها، ويا للأسف، لم توفِ بوعدها أبدًا. حاول ستونر أن يجد بعض العزاء مع طفلته الصغيرة التي لم تفلت من قبضة أمها المتسلطة والمتحكمة في حياتها بالكامل، فكانت الطفلة تتحول مع مرور الأيام إلى نسخة أخرى من زوجته، وفشلت محاولاته لإعادة الدفء إلى بيته. قضى ستونر حياته مربوطًا في ساقية تجره جرًا نحو نهايته الحتمية، دون أن تدع له الفرصة للتفكير في ما يريده فعلًا من هذه الحياة، ولأنه طيب القلب، لم يلتفت يومًا إلى ذلك القيد الملتفّ حول عنقه، كان يظن أنه يمضي في الحياة وفق إرادته هو لا إرادتها، ولم يدرك مدى فداحة مأساته إلا مع وضع نقطة النهاية لحياته البائسة. تجذبك الرواية بمجرد ان تبدأها، رغم بطء أحداثها، ورغم الملل المسيطر على أجزاء متعددة منها، إلا أنك ستنجذب لهذه الشخصية، ستشفق وتتألم وينقبض قلبك حزنًا على هذا الرجل المستسلم لإيقاع حياته، الماضي في الحياة كريشة تتلاعب بها الرياح، أو كجذع شجرة بائس تتقاذفه الأمواج، تدفعك قصة حياته للتأمل، ترى فيها بعضًا مما يدور داخل عقلك من مخاوف تجاه مصيرك، تجعلك تتسائل عن كل اختياراتك التي تعتقد أنك اخترتها يومًا بإرادتك، لتكتشف الحقيقة المرة، بأنك بشكل ما، بطريقة أو بأخرى، مربوط في ساقية أنت الآخر، تمضي حياتك بروتينية كروتينية ستونر، تدرس في مدرسة لا تحبها، تستمع لمدرس يزعجك صوته، تتفوق في مواد لا تتذكرها فور انتهاء امتحانك فيها، تدخل جامعة لست متأكدًا من رغبتك في دخولها، فتدخلها إما إرضاءً لوالديك ولمجموعك المرتفع، أو مجبرًا لأن مجموعك منخفض، تتخرج منها لتعمل في مهنة لا تحبها، وفي المنتصف ربما تتزوج من أنثى لا تقل روتينية عنك... ثم تستيقظ من حلم اليقظة الذي بادرك فور انتهاءك من الرواية، والذي شاهدت فيه نفسك شبيهًا بستونر، مُسيرًا لا مخيرًا، فتندم على شوط حياتك الذي قطعته بهذا الشكل البائس، متخذًا قرارًا بالتوقف، والتحرر من قيد الساقية الملتف حول رقبتك، متمنيًا، في لحظة محورية، أن تجلس مع نفسك قليلًا، تعالج ما أتلفه الزمن فيك، وتنقذ ما يمكن إنقاذه من روحك، على أمل أن تتحول دفة سفينة حياتك نحو وجهة أخرى، نحو نهاية أخرى، لا تشبه بأي حال من الأحوال، نهاية ويليام ستونر. تمت
2183139210	"Στα σαράντα τρία του χρόνια ο Γουίλιαμ Στόουνερ έμαθε αυτό που άλλοι, πολύ νεότεροι, είχαν μάθει πριν από αυτόν: ότι το πρόσωπο το οποίο αγαπάς στην αρχή μιας σχέσης δεν είναι το ίδιο που αγαπάς στο τέλος της σχέσης, και ότι η αγάπη δεν είναι τέρμα αλλά μια διαδικασία μέσα από την οποία το ένα πρόσωπο προσπαθεί να γνωρίσει το άλλο." Προσπαθώ να βρω τις λέξεις και τον τρόπο να σας εξηγήσω γιατί αυτό το βιβλίο μου άρεσε τόσο πολύ και γιατί πιστεύω ότι είναι ένα βιβλίο που άνετα θα μπορούσε να μπει στο πάνθεον αυτών που λέμε κλασσικά βιβλία, βιβλία που πρέπει να χει διαβάσει ο κάθε βιβλιόφιλος που σέβεται τον εαυτό του. Έχουμε συνηθίσει να διαβάζουμε βιβλία στα οποία ο κεντρικός χαρακτήρας είναι είτε ο ήρωας της ιστορίας ή το αντίθετο, που ζει με κρυμμένα μυστικά, που έχει μια ζωή γεμάτη κατορθώματα κτλ. Το μεγαλείο λοιπόν αυτου του βιβλίου είναι ακριβώς ότι ο Στόουνερ είναι ενας από μας. Ενας χαρακτήρας που λίγο πολύ είναι σαν εμάς, ενας καθημερινός άνθρωπος πότε απαθής, πότε βουτηγμένος μέσα στις συνήθειες του, πότε αδύναμος αλλά πάντα αφοσιωμένος στην μόνη ειλικρινή του αγάπη που του παρέμεινε πιστή μέχρι το τέλος της ζωής του, τη λογοτεχνία και τη διδασκαλία. Ο Στοουνερ πάλεψε, υπέμεινε πολλά, δούλεψε με αγάπη και αφοσίωση παρα τις διαδοχικές απογοητεύσεις που του έδινε η ζωή. Έζησε μια καλή ζωή, έμεινε πιστός στις αξίες του και δεν επαναστατησε ποτέ. Συμβιβασμός? Δεν ξέρω τι να σας πω είναι ένα ερώτημα που προσπαθώ να απαντήσω και εγω στον εαυτο μου τον τελευταίο καιρό. Ίσως απλά να μην είμαστε ολοι φτιαγμένοι για μεγάλες επαναστάσεις. Η ζωή είναι ένας μεγάλος δρόμος και ποτέ δεν είναι ευθεία γραμμή για κανένα. Ίσως για καποιους ακουγεται πικρή ως διαπίστωση αλλά είναι τελικά? Ποσο θα ήθελα για φίλο μου το Στόουνερ. Αλήθεια διαβάστε το. Ένα από τα πιο αγνά βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει. Βαθιά ανθρώπινο, διδακτικό και με τοσο φυσιολογικη εξελιξη και ροή του λόγου σαν την ίδια τη ζωή. Ο κόσμος θα ήταν πολύ καλύτερος αν υπήρχαν και άλλοι Στόουνερ
1923551491	لستُ أعلم على وجه الدقة كيف أشعر تجاه هذا الرجل، الشفقة أم الغضب، الشفقة لهذه الحياة البائسة المزرية التي عاشها الرجل بكل مآسيها دون راحة، أم الغضب لأنه ترك نفسه واستسلم وسمح للجميع بجعله أضحوكة. يا رجل، عليك اللعنة!، دافع عن نفسك، تحدث، هاجم، اغضب، ارفع سلاحًا وقاتل، افعل أى شئ غير هذه الاستسلام المخزي. يا إله العالمين، ما كل هذا الألم؟ لقد لمسني كل حرف داخل هذه الرواية، كل حرف دون أى مبالغة. إنه مصير/حياة أهرب منها دائمًا، أهرب من مجرد التفكير فيها، وها هي مجسمة بأشنع صورها أمامي، معروضة، مستقبل أسود وبائس. لقد غيّرت فيّ هذه الرواية شيئًا لن يختفي أبدًا. شكرًا ستونر، وعليك اللعنة أيها الجبان الغبي!
2026100050	Sometimes the bastards get it right. Don’t get me wrong: more often than not, a novel aloft the cultural gestalt is far more oftentimes either total garbage or not my cup of tea (see: All The Pretty Horses c. 1993) than the other way around. But, by God, everyone has it right this time. Stoner is a perfect novel—there’s no doubt about it in my opinion. While it may not be one of my favorite novels, I’ll never deny its recognition as anything other than a masterpiece; a flawless gemstone whose hardness affords it its beauty but also allows it to cut so effectively.‘Economical’ is thrown around a lot among literary types—hell, I’ve been known to say it once or twice. It is, obviously, a pretentious way of saying ‘simple.’ So I’m going with transparency and saying that Stoner is simple and meaning it as a compliment. It serves a greater purpose for the story to ache all the more without the inopportuneness of prolix to bandage the many wounds herein. Direct in language, craft, and structure, I’m sure someone so inclined could tear this thing down into meta-typical chunklets of symbolism and allegory. Not me. This is whisky, straight. Neat, if you please. I remarked to a friend that it was as if a 1950s Ford pick-up truck wrote a novel, and that was meant as yet another compliment. So where does that leave us? With the simple and uniquely human heritage of storytelling. If you are a John Hawkesist, you propose that plot is the enemy to literature. I say that the enemy to literature is having an axiom upon which you attempt to define the same. If it moves you, dance to it. And, my God, how this made me sway. I don’t deny that a large part of it derives from the fact that the titular Stoner and I have a terrible amount in common. Not in terms of genius or determination, no, but in that his life's many fiber-faults are authentic mirrors of my own. There are passages that could very well pass for descriptions of my everyday. These have particularly to do with Stoner’s daughter and his general spinelessness regarding self-agency. Anyone that has read the book will know that I say this not as plumage display, but as sad admission of my own flaws. The most painful passage, having to do with Grace for those in the know, is the closest I’ve ever come to crying from a book. Is this where I’ve exiled my family because I refuse to rock the boat?The damnedest part is, Stoner is practically Cartesian in its spelling out of how to avoid the inevitabilities of tragedy. To someone like me—and, I hasten to assume, to many of you who so relate to this book for the same reasons as I—it can function as a roadmap highlighting the clearer passages through life’s roulette of wreckages. But, like Stoner, I know where my fate lies and always have. My eyes have been dead-set upon the same horizontal point for decades, and nothing is going to enfranchise me enough to break step. I’m steadfast; I stick. I confuse physical for emotional presence. Or, to be as honest as Williams is with this luminous star, I’m just too fucking egotistical, vain, and prideful to accept change being anything other than a capitulation to defeat. Weakness disguised as stoicism is weakness nonetheless. Stoner and I? We both deserve what we get. And it’s coming fast.
2947860131	5/5Retai kada verkiu iš absoliutaus grožio. Man, nereligingai, apraiškas to, ką laikau dieviškumu, iki šiol pavyko sugauti nebent koncertuose ir muzikos grožyje. Tačiau laikydama rankose Stounerį, ašaroms ritantis skruostais, negalėjau negalvoti apie stingdantį šitos knygos grožį, kuris mane užbūrė, apsėmė tarsi banga ir nepaleido. Vakar pradėjau ir pabaigiau skaityti, taip greitai, net ir taupydama kiekvieną puslapį, sakinį, skyrių, o tada net nepaėmiau jokios kitos. Tiesiog gulėjom su Stouneriu lovoje ir bandžiau apmąstymais ir iš knygos gauta meile pasimėgauti kaip įmanydama ilgiau. Tikriausiai kiek mazochistiška, bet net mėgavausi tuo gumulu gerklėje, kurį jaučiau versdama puslapį po puslapio. Matyt jaučiausi kažkiek skausmo, liūdesio ir gedulo skolinga Viljamui Stouneriui. Nors jis tikriausiai pasakytų, kad nesvarbu. Ir iš tiesų būtų nesvarbu.
5764768658	Książka o beznadziejnym życiu. Totalnie nie dla mnie na tym etapie życia.
