660192180	how to make your own secret history playset.you will needone big house where a gaggle of college-aged and -attending young adults can gather unsupervised to drink and discuss Big Ideas and show off their highly specific knowledge in relatively obscure intellectual subjectsat least five of these should be very wealthy, having been protected by their wealth and their intellects their whole lives, giving them a false sense of immortality and infallibility; a confidence beyond their years that makes them seem larger than life. points if some are related to each other, points if some are sleeping with each other. points if they evince a disdain for their wealth and a casual, sloppy treatment of the things money provides.one of them has to be incredibly charismatic, but also enigmatic, unpredictable, with some sociopathic tendenciesyou will also need one "outsider" drawn into the circle, seemingly accepted as an equal, but who feels the class-disparity deeply and hungers for what the glittering people take for granted.by the end of the game, there should be at least one dead body.sound good?? i thought so! i am on board with anything that does the secret history revamp thing. and although it is completely unfair, it is hard not to make comparisons in your head as you are reading them, holding them up against the gold standard. most are flimsy and bad, some are very good, and this one was right in the middle. i would give it a 3.5 star rating, if such a thing existed on the goodreads.i am going to start with the things that didn't really work for me so that i can leave the review on a happy note, because this is a very solid debut and my feelings about it shouldn't deter anyone from reading it.so, characters. you have oscar, the eldercare worker who gets sucked into this privileged circle when he hears an organ playing one night while walking by a church and is drawn in despite having no particular religious affiliation. once inside, he is enchanted by a beautiful, bored-looking girl and runs into her outside after the service where she is, naturally, reading a book by descartes. it turns out that it was her brother eden who was playing the organ and suddenly he finds himself in a cab with the girl, named iris, and eden himself, and on his way to a loud drunken party at their house, where he meets jane, who is eden's girlfriend, yin, and marcus; the remaining members of "the flock."and i hate to make the comparison, because it's not really fair, but in the secret history, every single character was interesting, complex, shining. here, no one really has any specific personality. yin is chinese, marcus is german, and those are their defining characteristics. eden is by far the most defined character, but the problem is, he is all bombast and tics, without anything particularly original about him to make the reader understand why he so dominates the others.an example, from when oscar meets iris:When he asked for her name, she replied: "It's Iris. Like the genus." And he laughed - just a short vent of air from his nose, but enough for her to step back and say, "What's so funny?""Most people would say 'like the flower', that's all.""Well, I'm not most people. I'm not going to say it's like the flower when I know perfectly well that it's a genus. And I'll tell you something else." She broke for a gulp of breath. "I know exactly which variety I am. Iris milifolia. The hardest one to look after."which of course is studiously flirtatious and arch, but it shows a degree of self-confidence which is completely deflated when they all get in the cab together and she wilts under eden's condescension and bullying of her, while oscar says nothing.and the point is that eden sucks the life out of everyone; brilliant and abusive as he is, and that scene shows the tendency he has to overpower people who are under his spell, but he just isn't interesting enough to be the only person in the room talking. yin and marcus are mostly unaffected by him; they are allowed to be goofy sidekicks, while jane shuts down, pretending to be dumber than she is and cracking self-deprecating jokes, and iris turns timid and careful, sparkless. so, not a great novel to find yourself in if you are a woman. my other problem is with the ending. not the big, climactic scene; that was actually a spectacular episode with great tension and well-timed action, but the part of the ending that spotlights the foundation for this whole situation - the reveal in eden's bedroom. i think it is supposed to be a moment of dawning realization, but i just didn't get it. i didn't get the "how" of it. it relies on an astute judgment of character that i don't think eden has, and expectations that cannot be guaranteed; it relies too much on variables that are uncertain, and the timing of it - the fact that the (view spoiler)[sales receipt (hide spoiler)] predates the action here raises more questions than i think it answers.but overall, it was a story that kept me interested and i never once wanted to stop reading it - it is the kind of book that carries you along, so when you are reading it, you don't feel the shortcomings; you are too wrapped up in the story. i just realized i haven't talked about the plot yet, because that is what publisher-supplied book synopses are for, but briefly, it is about someone so coddled and protected from the realities of life that he has developed a narcissistic personality that gets out of hand when he believes he has the power to heal people through music-based-hypnosis.which makes for a pretty awesome story, and my quibbles should not be taken as a sign that i didn't like the book, because it was very enjoyable.some of the best decisions were about what to exclude. as frustrating as it is, for a reader, to not be privy to the conversations between crest and eden, and to not get to see crest's manuscript in the form he had intended, i think it was a really smart move on the part of the author. i like the not-knowing, i like the lingering mystery and the wanting to so badly eavesdrop but being DENIED. also, both crest and dr paulsen were incredibly intriguing characters . i would have liked to have learned more about them and their relationship, because their characters were by far the most interesting, but - again - i appreciate the understated mystique..overall, a very solid and better-than-most addition to the books claiming to be just like secret history shelfas a fun drinking game, do a shot every time the word "wisteria" is used.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
256001378	I was drawn to this like a moth to the light – I can’t resist novels set in academic environments with quirky, over-privileged characters who I’d be tempted to throttle in real life. It’s always a bonus if this elite group assimilates someone from a lower class, hoping to mould him in their own image. Brideshead Revisited and The Secret History rank amongst my all-time favourite reads so The Bellwether Revivals should be a shoo-in….but is it strong enough to forge its own path or is it just a readable homage?I’m delighted to report that The Bellwether Revivals is a very distinctive, debut novel with its own identity and power. Oscar Lowe, a young Care Assistant, finds himself drawn into another world when he meets and becomes romantically involved with Iris Bellwether, an undergraduate at Cambridge. It is the hypnotic organ playing of Iris’s enigmatic brother Eden which draws Oscar into a church and acts as the catalyst for a series of disturbing events.The characterisation is superb – you feel like you’re right beside Oscar, meeting Eden for the first time, being magnetically drawn to this rangy, curly haired, eccentric/mad creature who thinks he can heal via the medium of music. Eden’s friends and family feel compelled to protect him but is he merely a tad idiosyncratic or a real danger to himself and others? Iris is torn between loyalty to her brother and her burgeoning romance with Oscar. Mater and Pater live in splendid isolation, with only a vague interest in their children, as long as their grades are good.From the very first page I was drawn into the compelling and, at times, unnerving world of the Bellwethers. The opening will hook you as we begin with an ending and you really have to find out how we get there. An excellent debut novel which will appeal to fans of Brideshead, The Secret History and The Lessons by Naomi Alderman. I can’t wait to see what this talented author comes out with next.My thanks to Net Galley for sending me this ARC.
275868305	How to make me really, really want to read a book: describe it, as the blurb for The Bellwether Revivals does, as 'part The Secret History, part Brideshead Revisited for the 21st century... a page-turning, romantic, eerie tale of genius and, possibly, madness'. Of course, I wanted to get my hands on this straight away and saw it as a natural addition to my famous (ahem...) Secret-History-esque shelf.First things first: let's do the checklist. Elite, academic setting? Yes - Cambridge University and its surroundings. 'Outsider' protagonist? Yes - Oscar Lowe, a care assistant at an old people's home, whose poor background has denied him the privilege of higher education. Close-knit group of friends who believe themselves to be superior to others, yet accept our hero into the fold? Yes - Eden, Iris, Jane, Marcus and Yin, all students at King's College. Charismatic and eccentric 'leader'? Yes - the fiercely intelligent but highly narcissistic Eden Bellwether, who is convinced he can heal the sick through the use of particular pieces of music and his own enigmatic 'powers'.The story follows Oscar's induction into the Bellwethers' 'flock'; drawn into a chapel by Eden's organ-playing, he meets Iris - Eden's beautiful sister - and immediately begins to fall for her. Fascinated by the siblings' intellectual clique and flattered by their attention, he agrees to participate in an experiment to test Eden's beliefs about music and hypnosis. However, Oscar soon discovers that Eden's unconventional views are even more strange than they appear: he actually believes he is capable of healing injuries and even serious long-term conditions, a delusion that is causing Iris to fear he is mentally ill. Iris enlists Oscar's assistance in persuading the headstrong Eden that he needs help, a mission that comes to involve Herbert Crest, a psychologist and expert in narcissistic personality disorder - who also happens to be slowly dying from a brain tumour, which Eden hopes to cure.There is something very intriguing and genuinely different about this novel, an undercurrent of constant strangeness. While there's never any doubt that Oscar himself is a sceptic, all the evidence appears to imply that Eden's mystical powers might truly exist, and as such the reader is kept guessing for much of the story. This mystery is cleverly woven into the sort of coming-of-age plot that will appeal to all lovers of campus novels and tales of supposed intellectual elites. Personally, though, I would really have preferred it if the book had been written in first person from Oscar's point of view. The narrative never deviates from Oscar's perspective, we know all his thoughts and feelings, and the other characters are just as mysterious to us as they are to him... so why not simply have Oscar telling the story? I really think the narrative would have been much stronger for it. I liked Oscar well enough, but I didn't feel emotionally connected with him, and didn't get a proper sense of his love for Iris at all - I know this was supposed to be a great romance, but I just couldn't identify any true passion between them. As a result, I also felt the climax and conclusion of the book were somewhat muted, and I couldn't fully feel the impact of (view spoiler)[Oscar's grief (hide spoiler)]. That said, I did really like the final revelation that (view spoiler)[Eden had engineered Oscar's involvement from the very beginning (hide spoiler)] - I just think the reveal could have been so much more dramatic and shocking.This is one of the better Secret History pastiches (if I may call it that without sounding too insulting!) I've come across. It's intelligent and interesting, but in the end it failed to be captivating enough to live up to my expectations - which, to be fair to the book, were very high. I wish I could say I'd really cared about the characters, but the truth is I was rather ambivalent about most of them and, writing this review a while after I actually finished reading, I don't feel that much about the story was memorable, other than the romantic setting. My overall feeling is that The Bellwether Revivals is an ambitious premise that doesn't quite succeed; but if this type of story is your thing, as it is mine, then it's certainly worth your time.
461995994	** spoiler alert ** My first review! The Bellwether Revivals. Plot outine, Oscar the care worker meets Iris, but her brother is a genius and may be unhinged, there will be bodies by the end of the book.The main problem with this book is that the author keeps telling us how intelligent his characters are, but they say such daft things. For instance, Eden (the so-called genius) thinks that Cartesian dualism is not without its flaws. This just made me laugh. A pretty big understatement (Descartes substance dualism is no longer seen as credible, the only dualists left are property dualists), which suggests he has no idea what he is talking about. I'd been waiting and waiting to be convinced of the intelligence of these people, and this is the best that the author could come up with? The main problem is not that the characters make statements which I personally disagree with. It's that if they are as intelligent as they are made out to be, they ought to be able to hold intelligent discussions. I've heard more intelligent debates on Sunday morning TV. Here is another example, Iris (another of those supposedly intelligent characters) claims that we need to be open-minded to ideas we think are preposterous e.g. God, because he might exist after all. I just think there is an obvious response to this, because if we should never rule anything out because it is preposterou,s we should not rule out the existance of santa claus (along with all those other things like the spagetti monster and the chocolate teapot orbiting Jupiter). Which leads me to my next point, although the author claims that some of his female characters are intelligent too, he doesn't seem too commited to the idea. You can see this in the reply of a male character to Iris's argument, he basically gives up on trying to put his point across, instead he just says 'there's just no way I'd be able to keep up with you, honey.' Honey? I don't know which bit of this is most patronising. Another female character is supposedly intelligent, but prefers to pretend not to be. Why? Because she likes to keep the peace. The author tells us this, but he needs to show us with dialogue.Near the end of the book, an expert witness claims that music cannot cure a brain tumour. What does the judge do? Asks the jury to ignore this piece of evidence. What??? And why was a neurosurgeon being asked to give evidence? Surely a psychiatrist would have been a better person to explain Eden's condition. Let the poor neurosurgeon get back to performing operations I say.I guess it might not matter too much if the book worked on the level of a psychological thriller. But it didn't. For me the characters didn't really come alive. Many of them seemed two-dimensional and not particularly likeable. I couldn't trust Iris and wasn't sure what Oscar saw in her or her friends. I was expecting some clever plot twists and turns, but in the end it just came down to, Eden is crazy and kills some people.I thought it was a great shame because the book occasionally touched on some interesting ideas and if the author had done some research and book would have been much better. Other reviewers have pointed out this lack of research too (apparently the author was not familiar with Cambridge). In a way it's not even his fault, someone should have advised him, it was his first novel after all.
2354036367	Actual rating: 1.5A few things:The writing was good for a first novel, although, it was pretty stale more than it was enticing.The whole book, Oscar comes off as a bland, lovesick mush; he was cloyingly puppy-eyed whenever speaking of Iris, and it was tedious. The book would have been much better off without the romance aspect.Eden was aloof for a majority of the story, and felt utterly displaced to me. More time should have been spent developing his persona from first-hand encounters, and yet, the for most of the book all we got was second-hand accounts of his actions and psyche. There could have been more depth to his character, a stronger examination— and for all of the characters, in fact! Where Donna Tartt’s novel The Secret History held such rich characterization, Wood’s book only scratched the surface (with the brush of a feather). I can’t even picture any of them in my head, that’s how wooden they were.Also, there was such a heavy-handed foreshadowing the last 1/3rd of the book, too, that any actual surprise from the beginning was irrelevant. Opening the story with a set of bodies (and not knowing who— though, it’s easy to guess fairly early on), and then going back months and months before the event... is such a half-assed gimmick. I honestly didn’t care enough about any of them to warrant the emotions involved in trying to figure out who’d die.In any case, I was liking the book at the start, but quickly that turned into me trudging on just to get it over with. The flatness to all the characters, eventually, was the final nail in the coffin. It really did ruin it for me.
1848313458	This seemed to me very much a "promising first novel"—very nicely written at points, but overly dependent on its models (most obviously The Secret History; Brideshead Revisited; and The Great Gatsby.) The narrative also seemed rather thin as a vehicle for the "ideas" it is transparently servicing; and there are even slight technical flaws, in the handling of focalization, for example.The novel worked reasonably well for me as a page turner (though my partner abandoned it half way through, so that's clearly not universal); and I found some entirely parochial pleasure in the fact that its geography mapped exactly onto mine (Harvey Road! Cartwright Gardens!) I think anyone wanting to sample this very talented young writer, though, might be best advised to skip this first one and to go straight onto Wood's second novel The Ecliptic, a far more assured and original work.
3905992364	I wasn't so sure of what to expect of The Bellwether Revivals but it exceeded my expectations. Sad and beautiful all at once. There is a certain flow to the authors writing that seems to make reading it feel like floating down a stream. Following the words from start to finish is inevitable. The author has done a thorough job when researching narcissistic personality disorder, hypnosis, and musical therapy. You can't help but fall in love with all the characters somehow that it the end you feel almost as your losing close friends. Well done Mr. Wood.
5479959448	“What good were answers now? What good were Crest’s observations and judgments?”I AM SORRY WASNT THAT THE MAIN REASON OF GOING THROUGH ALL OF THIS?Let me start over, solid 2.8! Wanted to give it the half. which is 2.5, from how emotional and heartbroken i was over some scenes! But I couldn’t! At least I can’t do it for the two old men’s and Oscar’s sake!Don’t get me wrong, i loved most of the thoughts that have been shared in this book, quoted some of what have been said -mostly from the old two men, duh! They were and will still remain my favorites!- and i liked most of the characters! I did have some confused feelings towards some of them, sometimes they get me mad, sometimes i feel bad for them, sometimes i admire certain thing’s about them! -i am sorry if am confusing you, i am confused my self! and i was honestly never able to express my feelings to any of my friends while reading! Neither to my self!YES! That’s the exact meaning of a book that gets you through a roller coaster of emotions. wow.Mainly? I am mad and frustrated! Why did things have to turn this way?! Why did you do that to us?!It was a slow read book for me since it was clearly not my type but i made a word of finishing it no matter how long it may take me, do i regret borrowing it twice from the library i got it from? .. you know what, this part right here gave me a pause, ran million of answers through my head, yet didn’t get the answer that would satisfy me, and actually describe how i am feeling at this moment.I liked it, and i hated it, i liked how it pictured lots of scenes, and i hated how some scenes ended in the way it did, i still have questions, I couldn’t find the answers to them, neither think of them or make up excuses inside of my head, I believe some of what happened didn’t have to necessarily happen!Yeah, no, I can’t put two words together anymore. I give up, thanks to the author for playing with my feelings this way! I can say it’s good in a way, well, it’s mostly reality and how you face it isn’t? You can’t get answers for everything!Thank you Herbert for describing hope the way you did! I had to give that a moment of appreciation while reading it!I know i said let me start over as in i am going to get back to raging over that part, but thinking while typing the rest calmed me down i guess, and helped me think more of the book in general. I am defeated.—————————————Do I recommend it? Depends!If you are a person who’s like me that gets so into the story of the book and build hope and look forward for what’s good that comes after all the suffer? #HappyEndingLovers DO NOT READ IT! If you want to face reality and accept what may come after, no matter how it may end? Or maybe you want to have a new perspective of viewing life, and learning from others experience in life? Then yes! this book is for you! It have a magical way of making you view people or things in a certain way, and then keeps changing it until you get confused. which by the way, made this book so powerful.
3130912476	I think I picked this nook up in a charity shop having read a review of a subsequent novel by the author in a broadsheet. Well written, boring in parts, spectacular ending. Would be interesting to see how this author's work has developed his subsequent two novels. This book is a solid 3 stars from me.
307648020	Benjamin Wood grabbed my attention from the first sentence of his debut novel. With three bodies, two dead, one barely alive, we are introduced to a world that is shocking and undefinedThrough twist, turns and “coincidence,” the puzzle unfolds: marring music, literature, psychology, religion and science, life and death, with an unhealthy dose of madness. Wood’s prose flow, effortlessly, from page to page – chapter to chapter. The pace is such that there is no good place to close the book and set this story aside. I had a hard time putting it down.Our protagonist, Oscar Lowe, is a 20-year-old nurse who becomes enmeshed with a group of educated, privileged, students. Two of the group – siblings: the girl, Iris, whom he is falling in love with and her brother, Eden, the ringleader. Eden is something of a prodigy… and possibly a mad man. Things are not always clear as the events are unraveling. Iris is both independent and a damsel in distress. Yet her manner and intellect are beyond her nineteen years of living.Dr. Paulsen, an elderly, retired professor, in Oscar’s care, is both his educator in literature as well as with cautions about his new friends from the Ivy-league. Paulsen also holds a piece of the puzzle. Things that seem unconnected become entwined as Oscar tries to keep a promise to Iris. With the introduction of Herbert Crest, a long time friend of Dr. Paulsen, Oscar has found an ally in his quest for the truth. A quest that started the moment Oscar diverted from his route home. One decision can alter a life’s journey, leading to a dichotomy of things.“Hope is a form of madness. A benevolent one, sure, but madness all the same.” Crest, a psychologist, informs Oscar. Yet there is hope in the pages of “The Bellwether Revivals,” and not even the most skeptical among the characters seems immune. Really… What is life without hope? The danger lies in what is inspired when all hope is lost and the truth is too much to bear.Many thanks to Random House of Canada, for the advance copy of, “The Bellwether Revivals,” Anyone who enjoys a mystery or seeks to understand human behavior, will enjoy the ride provided by this story. There’s allot of truth in this work of fiction.
2986534705	2.5 starsThe translation may have been for a lot (I haven’t read a translation in years and will never again) but... meh.
300521932	“There is no great genius without some note of madness” runs the strap line for The Bellweather Revivals, an entertaining first novel with some dark undertones by Benjamin Wood. The story is told mainly from the perspective of Oscar Lowe, a clever but uneducated young man working as a nursing home assistant in Cambridge. Oscar falls in with a close knit group of privileged students which includes Eden Bellweather and his sister Iris, and gradually becomes part of their circle. Oscar forms a relationship with Iris and Eden provides the genius with a note of madness; from the beginning it is clear that things are not going to end well. Eden is an extraordinarily talented musician, and believes in the power of music to manipulate emotions, something that most people would ascribe to. However, his belief has gradually extended beyond that so that he now believes that through music he can physically heal people who are unwell and is looking for opportunities to demonstrate this. Oscar enters Eden’s world at a key moment, and becomes inadvertently an element in Eden’s experiments. Oscar becomes increasingly convinced that Eden is unstable and in turn tries to understand what underpins his behaviour and beliefs, roping in American psychologist Herbert Crest who just happens to have an incurable brain tumour. There is much talk of narcissistic personality disorder (readers can judge themselves against the diagnostic criteria!), but for most of the novel it is unclear whether or not Eden has some supernatural or magical ability – “The irrationality of a thing is no argument against its existence”, to quote Nietzsche. Overall I enjoyed this book, without being completely engrossed. The behaviour of some of the characters appeared unconvincing to me and the way in which they spoke jarred a little, Eden’s father Theo (a surgeon) being a key example. Nonetheless, The Bellweather Revivals provides an interesting portrayal of a dysfunctional family and kept my attention well as the plot moved along with good momentum. The origins of Eden’s behaviour were hinted at (a childhood experience of a religious revivalist meeting in Florida, and an experience with a blackbird), but never really explained. I would have liked this to be developed a little more. However, I think that Benjamin Wood is a young writer who is well worth watching and I will look forward to his future books.
806927615	I spent a lot of time not reading this book, partly because of having lots of other things that needed doing, and partly because it seemed to be much too self-consciously "clever". I was also irritated by the constant use of "like" instead of "as if" in sentences such as "It seemed like he was ...". While some of the characters in the book may have spoken in this way, I find it beggars belief that an elderly retired Professor of Literature at Cambridge University would do so. Perhaps I am being needlessly pedantic, but it knocked a star off my assessment because it set my teeth on edge every time it appeared.Having said that, the story was all right but when the beginning of the book starts with bodies and then goes back to where it all began six months earlier, there aren't really too many surprises to be had.Not recommended
2622679697	My favourite novel. The most beautiful, psychologically fascinating, and heart-breaking novel a person might ever read. It's hard to explain what exactly makes this book so special - believe me, I've tried. But I think the best way I can describe it is by saying this: I read a lot of books. A LOT of books. Some are bad, a lot of them are okay, and a few of them are good, satisfying, well-written reads. None of them really make me feel much of anything, no real emotions. The Bellwether Revivals makes me feel just about every emotion on the spectrum as I read, and re-read and re-read. I feel happiness, hope, and often despair. I would encourage anyone who wants a book that challenges them to find deeper meaning to read this one.
3889556413	(2,5 stelle)Il caso Bellwether presenta alcuni degli elementi tipici del dark academia, ma non l’aura e il fascino che solitamente accompagnano questo filone: siamo infatti a Cambridge e la storia ruota intorno alle vicende di un gruppo ristretto di amici, che studiano al King’s College.⠀Il protagonista però non è uno di loro. Non è un ragazzo ricco e privilegiato, ma un giovane che lavora alla residenza per anziani del quartiere e che si ritrova quasi per caso ad uscire con una ragazza appartenente al gruppetto.⠀Per la prima volta dunque troviamo un’ambientazione dark academia, accompagnata da un personaggio lucido e consapevole della patina che avvolge la vita nel campus, tra mattoncini rossi e guglie gotiche.⠀Oscar - il protagonista - perde la testa per Iris fin dal loro primo incontro e si vede costretto, per frequentarla, ad avere a che fare con i suoi amici e soprattutto con suo fratello, Eden, un individuo tanto geniale quanto inquietante, convinto di poter curare le malattie attraverso l’ipnosi e la musica.⠀Le premesse c’erano tutte, ma allora cosa non mi ha convinto? In primis i personaggi - gli amici - che ho trovato appena abbozzati, macchiette inconsistenti. Poi il ritmo narrativo, che non riesce a catturare fino in fondo il lettore. Infine manca l’atmosfera, quell’aria di polverosa magica erudizione, che ci ha fatto perdere la testa per il dark academia. Qui tutto pare grigio e squallido, come una mattina di gennaio.⠀Il giudizio non è stato totalmente negativo perché ho apprezzato i risvolti psicologici (e tutto ciò che ne consegue) del personaggio di Eden, l’unico veramente a tutto tondo. Tuttavia mi aspettavo qualcosa in più da questo romanzo, che si guadagna tre stelle scarse.
294157442	This book is absolutely superb for about 3/4 but stumbles and falls down badly in the end when it becomes cheap psycho-melodrama, eschewing the potentialities of before. Definitely a page turner and while the main character Oscar is a bit improbable in some ways, he is very compelling and you cannot help but root for him and his quite unlikely love story with Iris Bellwether, a medical student at Cambridge.But there is a hitch and it's not Iris' rich surgeon father or her Church going snobbish mother (Oscar is a proud atheist and nursing home attendant from a working class family); it's Eden the charismatic older brother of Iris and extremely talented organ player who believes his music can heal the sick and dying and his need for adulation conflicts with Oscar practical experience of nursing homes and how the body breaks down due to age and illness.But who knows, Eden may be onto something as his healing seems to work; though of course destroying a golden boy's illusion may be dangerousOverall the superb first 3/4 offers enough to make me recommend this novel but I wish the author would have been more imaginative; sometimes going sff-nal really would help and this book is a clear example of something that would be much better with some sffnal touches or at least more ambiguity, though I can also see the point of the author which is driven home quite emphatically in the last few pages; that lack of subtlety added a little to my disappointment for the ending, though there is a stark power to it in a way.
355675686	Original Review: http://alexandrampatterson.com/2012/0...Summary: The Bellwether Revivals takes place mainly at King’s College, Cambridge and the surrounding area. (Don’t you love it already?) Oscar Lowe is an outsider who works in a nursing home nearby who falls in love with the privileged medical student. As he dives into her world he realizes that the life on the other side isn’t always as beautiful as it seems.Bechdel Test?: Unfortunately no. The book is from the perspective of a male character (Oscar) and he primarily interacts with other men. Iris and Jane, the two females who show up the most, don’t really talk to each other with Oscar around.Rating: 5/5It has been a long time since I’ve read a novel in which the prose was as beautiful as The Bellwether Revivals. Wood’s words are more than beautiful, they’re enchanting and brought me so deeply into the story that I forgot the time of day. I loved the mix of not knowing whether there was a supernatural element or whether there was just paranoia and delusion. The unreliable narrator of Oscar Lowe, coupled with the psychoanalysis provided by Dr. Herbert Cress, I was on my toes the whole time trying to figure out what would happen next. Honestly, if you only read one book this summer make it this one!
383173515	If you say Gothic I am there. I really love an atmospheric English read but this didn't do it for me. A strange meandering plot and characters I couldn't care about sunk this one for me.Oscar Lowe is a true academic but he can't afford college so he does his studying on the side while he works a nursing home job. He falls for poor little rich girl Iris Bellwether which probably would have been just dandy except for the fact that she has a crazy brother with bit of a cruel streak. Eden Bellwether may or may not be able to physically heal people with music. In any case he suffers from delusions of grandeur. The more Oscar learns about the Bellwether family and friends the more he becomes convinced that "Something is rotten in the state of Denmark." Just how rotten he will soon find out. There is also a sub plot involving one of the nursing home patients and his former lover who attempts to evaluate Eden.The novel just left me cold. There were parts that were interesting but there were more parts that dragged. Another strange thing was that it was set in contemporary times but the way it was written made it seem like it happened in the 1800's. The characters and setting seemed very old fashioned even though there were supposedly in the year 2003. The whole thing might have worked better if it had been written as historical fiction
3301185689	(4.5) An eerie story that hooks you and lures you in with its melodic prose and quiet heart, The Bellwether Revivals takes the genre of dark academia and attempts to spin it a different way, to varying results. Protagonist Oscar, while beginning as the unassuming outsider, isn’t just booksmart; he eventually becomes an active participant and a kind of double agent. His love for girlfriend Iris and his concern and suspicion towards her older brother, organ genius and narcissist Eden, lead him on a detective’s journey of sorts. He stays firmly on the “good side” while managing to have an interesting perspective to read from. Here, parental characters are introduced, and we delve into family dynamics, skirting the need for the story to remain in the throes of the typical tight knit group. I do wish we had gotten more from the peripheral friends though. Instead of a worship and trust behind the enigmatic maybe-villain, here, Eden is distrusted by his group, even though they continue to go along with his schemes. He is positioned on the concrete “bad side” while managing to be a three dimensional villain, but he doesn’t garner so much sympathy from his friends or the reader. I really enjoyed the mystery aspects of this book; instead of events simply happening to the characters, the characters become proactive in trying to change their ending, even if they don’t succeed.The academic/gothic setting still reigns supreme here, but the story is wider in scope and broader in messaging. I know I compare everything to The Secret History, but as I read I view these books in this same genre as in conversation with it, and doing so brings new dimensions to these types of stories that I love interacting with. Long but you get the point!
7197191917	Quattro e mezzo in realtà.E' un vero peccato che questo libro sia così poco conosciuto e nominato quando si parla del genere "dark academia" perché in realtà è davvero un gran bel romanzo, godibilissimo e molto interessante.Non do 5 perché solo l'inizio l'ho trovato un po' lento, ma il 90% del libro è ottimo! Mi è piaciuto tutto; dalla storia, decisamente fuori dall'ordinario, passando ai personaggi strutturati egregiamente con dettagli e sfumature originali, fino ad arrivare alla botta allo stomaco del finale, che sicuramente mi ha lasciato stupita. E tutto ciò è quello che cerco nei libri. Che bello, io forever fan del dark academia.
4177255567	Meh. It was alright I guess but the "twist" at the end (if you'd go as far as call it a twist) was disappointing and seemed lazy and rushed compared to the painfully long buildup.
5241670869	Concrètement, LE COMPLEXE D'EDEN BELLWETHER est un livre auquel il faut faire confiance. C'est un livre dont il faut savoir très peu au départ et se laisser porter par la mélodie. C'est hypnotique, inattendue, complément en dehors du temps. Un livre qui a su, en toute sobriété, me sortir d'une panne de lecture. C'était lunaire, déconnecté et extrêmement bien écrit. Cette fin me laisse un peu perplexe et avec mille questions mais, je crois que j'aime cette fin comme ça : énigmatique et fantaisiste.
542507290	I'm sure I'm not the only one whose reading develops an odd and unintended synchronicity now that it's self-directed. It fascinates me that given the vagaries of a reading schedule that's now driven by library holds arriving whenever, books loaned to me by friends as well as books bought, that I'll end up reading two novels within a month of each other that focus on brother-sister relationships. So, having just finished Pat Barker's Toby's Room, in which Elinor's quest is to find out how her brother died in WWI, the next novel I read was this one, in which another woman struggles with her relationship with her brilliant but tragically - for all who encounter him - flawed brother. I will confess it was the beauty of the cover that first attracted me to this novel (and it's interesting to me that the cover of this book is the single most repinned item I've attached to a Pinterest board, so I'm obviously not alone). In fact, ALL the covers I've seen for various editions of this book are gorgeous.Briefly: Oscar, a care assistant at a nursing home, by chance meets two King's College Cambridge students, Iris and her brother Eden Bellwether. Both accomplished musicians, Iris is following in her father's footsteps and taking a degree in medicine; Eden is doing a master's in music and is not only a virtuoso organist but composer as well. Throughout the novel, Iris struggles with the developing love she feels for Oscar and the murky and complex love she has for her brother. She alternates between believing in her brother's mad theories about the power of music to heal and the suspicion that he's deeply troubled and a danger not only to himself but to others.This is a remarkably accomplished first novel and I'm surprised it hasn't won any awards (although it's been nominated for a few). It is, however, an oddly old-fashioned - or perhaps I should say uncontemporary - novel to have been written by such a young man (Wood was at most 31 when it was published). Even though Iris and Eden's father has made a bundle investing in a telesurgery company, these characters could easily be living in the 1930s. Personally I thought that gave it a timeless quality, but for others it may strain the bounds of verisimilitude. Except for the prelude, its structure is almost entirely linear, and there are no experimental pyrotechnics here. But it's a fascinating psychological thriller, and I think the review below is more than a little uncharitable. Oscar's character is not so much mysterious as understated, and as a reader I don't mind not being clobbered by an author who insists on showing rather than telling and asks that the reader bring their mind to the reading table.http://arts.nationalpost.com/2012/03/...
715656672	(See our full review over at Bookkaholic.) Themes of science versus superstition, the power of music, and the extent of family loyalty make for a simultaneously weighty and brisk read. The Bellwether Revivals bears striking resemblances to The Secret History by Donna Tartt, what with its elegantly sinister tale of secrets amongst a group of posh college students. If you like your fiction to be intelligent and stylish as well as suspenseful – along the lines of Gone Girl and Liza Klaussmann’s Tigers in Red Weather – this will be a great next novel for you.
3232129297	No sé muy bien como abordar esta reseña.He estado la mayor parte la lectura totalmente desconcertada y no sé si es algo bueno o no.Al principio no sé muy bien de que trataba la historia, a medida que avanzaba creía ver por donde iba, luego había algo que me hacía cambiar la visión; volvía al inicio...La historia en sí me ha gustado, me ha parecido psicológicamente muy interesante pero por otro lado me da la sensación de que le falta algo y no sabría explicar el qué...quizás esperaba algo más fantasioso.Tampoco puedo decir que no me haya gustado porque no sería cierto. Me ha mantenido enganchada e interesada en saber quien es ese Eden Bellwether...pero también he de decir que había tramos de la lectura en las que me daba la sensación de que no avanzaba en páginas ni en la historia propiamente dicha.Por tanto....mi recomendación es que lo leas y saques tus propias conclusiones 🤷‍♀️🤣
317539702	Having read the hype that this was somehow a modern version of Brideshead Revisited I was rather disappointed as it was more like Morse meets the Midsomer mummers with its cut-out characters. I struggled to read it and nearly gave up more than once. Still, there was some promise considering that it was a first novel, although it did feel that he had written this while at university and it had taken a few years to get it published.
6159355146	this was like the bad version of the secret history. and i ate it up.
5701792245	Maybe my favorite of the The Secret History knockoffs. If you picked up "If We Were Villains" only to put it back down without finishing, offended by the comparison to Donna Tartt's classic, you might like this one better. It's a moody story about a working class kid falling in with a group of posh, arty college students. For me, it scratched the TSH itch better than others of its ilk, just by being better written - the prose is totally decent. If IWWV was "poorly written Shakespeare TSH," this one is "very competently written music major TSH" - and that is a COMPLIMENT, baby!!!
7495694060	Not sure if I can call this 100% Dark Academia because while it has some of the main tropes (obsession, aesthetics) it lacks many more. But considering it as a psychological thriller about some guy’s obsession, it was an enjoyable read even though the second lead was much more interesting that the first lead but unfortunately we don’t really get to know him.
2216766639	If you loved The Secret History, and what you loved about it was the outsider who is welcomed into a close group of privileged, pedantic prigs, only to witness the fucking wheels coming off as they all disappear up their own bums, you should check this one out. It’s not without problems, but I always dig a book with that plot premise.
2509827680	I started this book then read a couple of more in between. It wasn’t that the book didn’t grab me—but read borrowed ones instead. Once I started reading it—it grabbed me—the story and the characters were so unique. The description of the characters and Cambridge Univeristy made you want to look at pictures—described so wonderful. The story is a sad story of love, hope and madness. Highly recommend for something so very different. Love how the author writes.
5666091031	Surprising story line, and it is not a tale I've heard before. Benjamin Wood is also a new British author to me, talented, provocative and suspenseful. Music students in Cambridge may be familiar with the places named, but the characters are fictional.
331909599	Just fantastic! The story, which has a Gothic feel to it, was rather thought-provoking. I would have liked to have gotten a peek at what had gone on "behind closed doors" with our antagonist and the psychologist, but that will have to remain part of the mystery.
3793880156	This book slowly draws you in. With the mystery and the soft subtle romance you don’t notice it fully grasped you until it rips you apart in the end and you end up feelings empty because you got so lost with the characters that you don’t even notice it.
7529867593	this book gets 4 instead of 5 stars because my heart is absolutely broken by the end….
5095211048	Wtf Eden
5816449519	Un roman sublime, qui aborde le génie et la folie avec une plume envoûtante. Tout l'univers de la musique et des college britanniques, associé à cette montée progressive jusqu'au paroxysme de la folie, c'est un pur régal littéraire.
1680743480	Per la precisione: 3,63★Questa recensione è presente anche sul blog: http://thebooksblender.altervista.org...Innanzitutto, chi sono questi Bellwether? Non vorrei ridurli al classico cliché da famiglia ricca inglese, ma così è. Quindi, immagina: una grande villa, un grande parco (= tanti soldi) e una grande libertà. E ancora: i college inglesi e i trattamenti privilegiati per i figli di chi li sovvenziona. Aggiungi un po' di sano egocentrismo et voilà!Ma la questione è leggermente più… "profonda". Da uno scontro tra il mondo (borghese) di Oscar e quello di Iris (benestante e privo di molti assili quotidiani di noi poveri mortali come, ad esempio, quello di guadagnarsi la pagnotta) tutto slitta molto rapidamente verso un'analisi psichiatrica su Eden, il suo carattere particolare (un po' bordeline, strafottente, egocentrico, genio della musica, intelligente e super narcisista, ect.… viene da domandarsi come fa ad avere degli amici che lo seguono nelle sue stramberie e una ragazza che lo idolatra) e i suoi modi di fare spesso oscuri. Insomma, è pazzo? È un genio? L'unica ad avere dei dubbi sembra Iris, la sorella.La vicenda è così preminente che sembra quasi che Iris accetti il corteggiamento di Oscar solo per ottenere un alleato in questa sua indagine. In tutto questo, si aggiunga, come poco sopra scrivevo, il contesto benestante dei Bellwether e il comportamento da struzzo (= testa sotto la sabbia) dei signori Bellwether che preferiscono mantenere le apparenze e non ammettere con sé stessi l'evidenza (che io tutta 'sta genialità in Eden non è che l'abbia vista… per carità, è un bravissimo musicista e, a quanto pare, anche un validissimo compositore… ma… fine). Insomma, alla fin fine… la storia (e leggasi: la questione sulla musicologia, l'ipnosi e compagnia bella) è interessante, ma l'ho trovata quasi più un esercizio di stile che non una vera e propria storia appunto. Non ci sono particolari sviluppi, perché già nelle due paginette di preludio si sa come andrà a finire la vicenda (male…) e facendo la primissima conoscenza con Eden e il suo carattere schizzato già si comprendere il come e, poco dopo, anche il perché.Continuiamo e passiamo ai personaggi. Grande è l'attenzione che viene dedicata a ognuno di loro. Tra protagonisti e comprimari parliamo di poco più di una decina di personaggi (il c.d. gregge dei Bellwether, Oscar, Iris e Eden, Bellwether padre e Bellwether madre, Plausen e Crest), ma sono tutti ben definiti, sebbene inquadrati nei loro standard sociali: i Bellwether, come scrivevo poco sopra, ricordano molto le famiglie altolocate che preferiscono la politica dell'"aspettare e vedere" pur di non cadere nel pubblico ludibrio nella pubblica piazza; i ragazzi del "gregge" incarnano spesso lo schema ragazzo-di-buona-famiglia-in-un-college-e-con-nulla-di-serio-a-cui-pensare (insomma, quelli che pensano di sapere e di aver visto tutto della vita, ma che hanno la domestica in casa a rimediare al posto loro anche alla più piccola inezia); infine, Oscar, il ragazzo intelligente e di belle speranze, la cui famiglia non ha mai preso in considerazione l'ipotesi che l'istruzione sia un punto fondamentale nello sviluppo di un individuo.Si salvano Paulsen e Crest, la cui storia, in bilico tra presente e passato - anche se un po' sullo sfondo-, aggiunge molti punti interessanti nella vicenda generale e li rende due personaggi "fuori dagli schemi" classici.[...]Infine, gli ambienti. La vicenda prende campo principalmente a Cambrige e nella magnifica villa Bellwether. Nelle fasi iniziali, si avverte un po' lo scoramento di Oscar nel ritrovarsi di fronte a usi, costumi e modi di fare a lui completamente sconosciuti. Il suo unico appiglio sono le regole della buona educazione, di cui riesce a fare sfoggio, ma è innegabile un certo senso di "sfasamento". Tuttavia, questa sensazione sparisce in breve tempo e ben presto tutto si concentra su Eden, mentre il resto sfuma.[...]Concludendo. Non trovo molto semplice "valutare" questo libro. Se, infatti, da un lato, ho apprezzato la costruzione di alcuni personaggi e lo stile di scrittura, dall'altro non posso dire altrettanto della storia che, fatta salva l'idea molto interessante della ipno-musica, non racconta - e non sorprende - poi molto.
288297322	One late October evening, Oscar is drawn towards the chapel of King's College by the mesmerising sound of the organ playing within. There he meets the beautiful Iris Bellwether and the man responsible for the music, her brother Eden. They are from a different world, students at Cambridge whilst Oscar is a humble care assistant at a nursing home nearby. He soon falls in love with Iris, spending more time with her friends and family, learning that all might not be idyllic in the Bellwether household. Iris has soon embroiled Oscar in a plot to prove her brother isn't quite sane...Eden believes in the power of music. He is obsessed with Johann Mattheson and his theories that music can be used to manipulate people's thoughts, hypnotise and even heal. Is he a harmless fantasist, dangerously insane or could he really have hidden talents beyond their understanding? I loved the way the music was described throughout, it really gave a sense of it without having to have prior knowledge. The novel has been repeatedly compared to Brideshead Revisited and I can see the similarities. Certainly the style feels from a different age and the Bellwethers' lifestyle doesn't quite fit in the modern day. Iris may be more believable as a 1920s heroine but comes across as aloof, shallow and a bit too silly to be considered a medical student at Cambridge. The language of the Bellwethers felt a little old-fashioned, although their friends and those outside the circle are much more modern. Perhaps it highlights the differences in upbringing but I often had to remind myself it was set in the here and now. The dynamics between Oscar, the outsider, and the siblings is also reminiscent of Brideshead but that is where comparison ends.Oscar is grounded in reality and his old world by a touching relationship with Dr Paulsen, an old, and often grumpy, man who he cares for at Cedarbrook. He is never ashamed of his job although he has distanced himself from his family. For all the wealth and intelligence the Bellwethers posess, Oscar comes out the end as the more worthwhile human being.I also learned a new word, for something I really love which is always a perk of a good book (it also happens to be Iris's favourite thing):“Petrichor. It's the word for how the earth smells after rainfall.”I did find the relationship between Oscar and Iris a little flat. Fortunately, it's more of a psychological tale revolving around Eden's unravelling and the music that all three of the characters love.
322835617	Every once in a while I'll start to read a book and within just a few minutes, I'll get goosebumps. That happened to me with The Bellwether Revivals - and honestly, I was surprised by it.First of all - this book is described as a "masterpiece,"; a word that immediately sets me on edge because I feel as if I'm being set up to be disappointed. Secondly - the book centers around music - yet another thing that is bound to disappoint me since very few authors actually take the time to write intelligently about music and throw words around like Chopin and Beethoven like they are the end all/be all of classical music.But once I began to read I was completely enchanted by the story being told. The beginning is perfect, and I don't want to spoil it by writing about it in detail - but as far as tension and masterful writing goes? It's a 5 out of 5. It sets a gothic tone, is gritty, powerful and made me want to find a corner where I could be sucked into the story and not leave until it was finished. That feeling warred with one that was wanting me to slow down and savor it, like every last bite of a really delicious piece of pie. I didn't want the story to end, yet I craved the ending and every bite along the way.The Bellwether Revivals is the story of a strange pairing of siblings - academic, rich kids who attend King's College. Into their life comes a man who is employed at, what is essentially, a nursing home. He lacks the education of the set of people the siblings are involved with, yet reads and furthers his own mind outside of the classroom in a way that the rich set only dreams of. Added to the fantastic richness of the characters is science - specifically psychology. I cannot describe how perfect the pace was for this book, how thrilling and unnerving certain scenes were, and how amazing and fascinating some of the diagnoses were that kept the story flowing.Benjamin Wood didn't go deeply into musical theory, but he researched enough to pull names into the story that are known well to the academic classical music world, and he wrote with enough detail that the vagueness of what was happening seemed plausible enough. I cannot describe how much I enjoyed this book and highly recommend it to fans of gothic stories, both new and old.
1919229948	Lu dans le cadre du prix des lecteurs 2017
7981968853	super unique plot idea, incredible characterization, and unbelievably atmospheric setting, but the prose was overly pretentious which completely ruined it
541677677	I picked up this book because it has a maze on the cover (in the UK edition I read, anyway!) and I’m a bit of a sucker for stories set in mazes. However, there are no mazes inside the novel, but the story and writing were sufficiently complex, beautiful and well-constructed, that I didn’t mind the lack of a literal garden maze! This is a book about the incredible, but also limited, power of music. It’s an excellent novel, which follows the relationship between Oscar, a young man working in an old folks’ home, and Iris, a rich medical student, and how he fits into her social circle and her family. But because her social circle and family are dominated by her charismatic, argumentative and talented brother, the story is far more than a romance.Among the many questions Oscar and the reader are forced to examine are questions about the power of faith and music (can music affect the emotions, can music help mute pain, and can music heal injuries and illness?) and about the fine line between genius and madness, but also about what you do when you’re not sure which side of that line a loved one is living.It’s also a mystery: two unnamed bodies are lying dead on the very first page, then the story skips back to tell the story of Oscar and Iris’s meeting and the next few months of their lives. So every so often, you think: I wonder who the bodies will be? I wonder who killed them? And I wonder if it will be THIS conversation, argument, or odd middle of the night musical ritual, which will lead to the deaths? A great book, full of ideas, images and emotions.
384012603	Wood's debut is auspicious. His first novel models clear prose, deep and consistent character development, and a mastery of tension. Those reading the flyleaf won't find the premise new: a young man encounters a group of privileged youths and gets drawn into their midst, only to find that the sweetness of their seemingly carefree and entitled existence not only hides their own sorrows but also will be his emotional and intellectual undoing. A touch of Brideshead Revisited here. Yet Wood's novel is also an exploration of the attraction madness can have when it is wedded to real genius. What Wood achieves, though, is utterly his own, for his protagonist is not "ordinary man" but an ordinary man, full of feeling, loving, thoughtful, and worthwhile. I knew as I finished the book that the sorrows of its narrator/hero would haunt me for some time to come, so real are they, so human, that when the whole project ended in sadness, I felt as if some true and constant friend of mind had been through the mill and come out the other side, wiser, but forever carrying the weight of hope and helplessness, love and anger, with him. Wood's best move is to allow a good man to remain a good man. Though this had elements of a thriller, it also played my heartstrings.
1170822282	This book tried way too hard to be the next Secret History - so many similarities in plot and overall structure. I don't normally go into plot details when I write a review but I need to stress how alike these two novels are: It opens with a death scene, then takes you back in time to the events leading up to it. We're introduced to a working class misanthrope who meets a group of elite intellectuals and is dazzled by and envious of their wealth and status. One of the members of this group is a supergenius who involves the rest in strange, sometimes dangerous, cult-like rituals. Working class misanthrope participates despite hesitations, until he's in too deep.My reading experience was mostly pretty frustrating because I loved The Secret History and was just constantly making comparisons, which is probably unfair but impossible to not do (I didn't even list all of the similarities). Bellwether Revivals just doesn't measure up. Most of the storyline felt contrived and most of the characters were not fleshed out or memorable in any way. It kept me interested enough to keep going, because I wanted to know how it ended, but that's all. I'll be very surprised if I still remember the characters' names next week.
1210117228	Ce roman m'a instinctivement fait penser à celui de Donna Tartt, Le Maître des illusions, qui réunit lui aussi l'école prestigieuse, de jeunes gens élitistes, la manipulation, l'engrenage infernal, le mystère et le drame. J'ai beaucoup aimé me plonger dans ce monde raffiné, romantique mais désabusé, où l'histoire serait presque anecdotique tant le contexte est alléchant et divinement planté. Organiste virtuose, Eden Bellwether se croit capable de guérir les gens grâce à la musique qu'il joue et va essayer de le prouver à tous, famille et amis. Max, le narrateur, veut démasquer la supercherie et se fait aider par un spécialiste des troubles de la personnalité.J'avoue avoir été sous le charme de l'environnement guindé, au point d'occulter la trame appliquée mais laborieuse, semblable à une course de fond désespérée. Mais, franchement, quelle force et quel toupet dans ce roman brillant et audacieux, qui peut surprendre et envoûter tout lecteur en quête de romans académiques dans la lignée « secret-history-esque ».
263357830	Described as part The Secret History and part Brideshead Revisited - well how could I resist? Oscar is a care assistant in an nursing home who is drawn, despite being an atheist, to a church by its organ music. There he is irresistably attracted to Iris a Cambridge medical student and introduced to her enigmatic brother Eden and a small elite group of priviledged hangers-on.Reality dawns on Oscar ,as he falls in love with Iris, that her brother is a deeply disturbed character who believes himself gifted with the ability to heal others with his organ music. Is this true or is he delusional and suffering from a 'God Complex'?Mainly character driven this is a compelling and suspenseful story that is hard to put down particularly as the first page begins with a tragic event - how it came about then follows. The characters were well drawn,though not particularly likeable and the priviledged world of the Bellwether's and their selfish preoccupations were fascinating. I very much enjoyed this debut novel and thanks to NetGalley for sending it to me.
346194240	Think I get what Benjamin Wood is up to here, taking an old-fashioned, almost Victorian plot and placing it in a realistic 21st century university setting (Cambridge, specifically), in hopes that the latter will ground the former. But I don't think Wood quite pulls it off--long stretches of the book are just flat, neither creepy nor particularly insightful on setting or character. And in a fairly realistic setting, contrivances (like Iris' willingness to go to extreme, convoluted, totally secret lengths to 'help' her brother Eden; or narrator Oscar's willingness to go along with this whole thing) don't really make a lot of sense, whereas they would pass without notice if Eden and Iris lived in a decrepit manor house in the 19th century rather than modern day Britain. Partially saved by a strong ending, where Wood adopts a straightforward thriller style and pulls it off well--shame he hadn't been able to manage that all along.
345421566	This is a gripping novel of obsession and madness and love---Oscar Lowe, an assistant in a nursing home, meets and falls in love with Iris Bellwether, a medical student in Cambridge. The story revolves around the Bellwethers' opulent world, so different from his own upbringing, and the "flock" that surrounds Iris' brother, Eden-- not only the Bellwether in name, but in function. Although told from Oscar's third-person POV, this story is very much Eden's story--and his belief that he has the power to heal through his music. Eden and his actions affect everyone around him--and by the end of the novel, nobody has been left untouched or unchanged. It's intriguing and intense, and once I picked it up I couldn't stop reading it until I was finished. Yes, it's that good.Kudos to Mr. Wood on his debut novel.
383168988	I have mixed feelings about this book. I want to give it more stars. It was reasonable writing (though often too many words e.g."pointed at her head with the tip of her finger" -- what else do you point with? -- and sometimes awkward e.g. "head as heavy as a lettuce") and the story line is very compelling, almost like du Maurier ... but the ending just didn't live up to the promise of the rest of the book. There are a few things that strained believability, such as: why didn't Oscar immediately demand to know what had happened to him that first Episode with Eden? I loved how the author set up a symbiotic kind of relationship between psychotic and psychiatrist, even leaving great questions about what it really means to be psychotic, but in the end Wood just didn't surprise me. I felt like I'd just read a very long newspaper article.
308291341	What a brilliant first novel. I did not want it to end and found myself being incredibly tires but unable to stop. It made me laugh and broke my heart. It made me think and say out loud how amazing the writing was such beauty in words I have not seen for a very long time. A highly intelligent novel that everyone should read, especially if you like music, intrigue, psychology or novels with great twists and unpredictable storylines. You can't guess where this book is going to go. Absolutely marvellous.
1348316255	I love it when I pick up a random audiobook and toss it into the player without a clue of the plot... and it turns out to be an awesome listen. The Bellwether Revivals is such a book.I can't comment on the comparisons to Donna Tartt or Evelyn Waugh since both authors are languishing on my I-Will-Get-To-You-I-Swear stacks. All I can say is that I was hooked from the very first disc.More later...
1245398121	Den här boken kommer såklart inte i närheten av vare sig TSH eller Brideshead Revisited eftersom den saknar djup och författaren inte alls har rätt språk för en sådan roman. Det saknades också väldigt mycket information för att intrigen och karaktärerna skulle kännas trovärdiga, men musiken var bra. Och jag sträckläste den, så som läsupplevelse var den helt ok, bara inte livsomvälvande. Hoppas hans nästa håller ihop bättre.
2473800999	The Bellweather Revivals was unlike most book I’ve read in that 100 pages in, I still had NO IDEA where the story was going. Despite the story not really having gone anywhere yet, the writing was evocative enough that I was still enjoying reading it. In the end I really enjoyed this book, and the characters and atmosphere it created lingered with me for day after I finished it.
584591672	The Bellwether Revivals does have the feel of Brideshead Revisited (although the characters are a little less appealing). It's the sort of book you want to keep reading although I had to stop every so often to think about the issues it raises about healing, music and the possibilities of both. My one criticism is that it a hugely depressing book - beautifully written, it lures the reader along to a tragic end - but then you know that at the beginning.
4755027325	Cardboard cutouts of characters that I didn't give a shit about one way or another. A half developed plotline that didn't intrigue me enough for me to keep going. Like pls tell me why the hype over Iris? Because of the sole fact that she's a female? I require more than a few sentences' worth of witty banter to be convinced otherwise.Dnf @ 38%
601392781	I found it difficult at first to get into this book, although that may just have been because I was in the middle of taking uni exams. However, I soon found myself completely engrossed. I could probably describe it as being quite dark, and indeed its basis is dark, but that would diminish the complexities in the character portrayal and the human light that also shines through.
632775519	Dark and gothic, peculiar family. Bit surprised as to just how many homicidal maniacs apparently lurk in our ancient universities and would greatly appreciate somebody writing one set at Manchester Met or Nottingham Trent. Anything but Oxbridge.
1704690418	Un buen golpe en forma de novela a la caterva de manipuladores sin escrúpulos que juegan con gentes que sufren y que no tienen más a lo que aferrarse que un leve hilo de esperanza, por irracional que éste sea.
1635241114	ehkä 4,5 tähteä?
1187965449	Very interesting characters and theories, but I felt unsatisfied after.
4046619314	omg i cannot believe i liked this.. the writing is so exhaustingly bad and the fact that it is about organ does NOT make up for that. the only interesting thing is the Mattheson stuff
332587667	loved it!
1431239591	I wanted to like it much more than I did. I found the characters to be distant and the ending unsatisfactory. That might have been intentional but it was unsatisfactory nonetheless.
1461823904	Para mí, absolutamente decepcionante.
6323901429	** spoiler alert ** Mid to strong 3? Started in March but only got through about a quarter. Finished the rest today, in June. I like the setting and atmosphere. A new kid adopted by established friend group of kids on the fringe of a renowned school is a good trope. Throw in psychology, antics, and a friend who is plunged into deeper mental issues then you get this novel. Eden is pretty much the sole interesting character but since we never get his point of view, we only see the depth of his instability after it’s too late. Pretty nicely done. Let me just say that walking into a room unexpectedly full of birds would be terrifying. The entire sequence of going through Eden’s room was the best part of the book, in my opinion. I like the names Iris and Oscar and even Eden is pulled off somehow. I am guessing it’s because the writing doesn’t sound like fan fiction therefore it doesn’t fall victim to fan fiction disease. Barely saved. I mention this disease in a previous review. The narcissism was majorly emphasized as what Eden is suffering with but they didn’t really believe he had actual fully fledged and dangerous delusions instead believing that he was doing it for the attention. I keep thinking that this might have been even better if Eden’s perspective was borrowed at least a little bit. For example, if the sessions between him and Dr. Crest was revealed to be recorded so they could listen to his unadulterated point of view in court. Another way would be journals or something like the excerpt from Dr. Crests hope book. That way, his brilliance toward music could have played a larger role since I think that’s a very compelling quality that I don’t often see. His lack of empathy at the end was a bit chilling like the way he was more worried that he couldn’t revive her rather than the fact that he had murdered his family members. I want to know what he did in Germany. It would have turned into a horror but when I heard about Johann Mattheson being buried in Hamburg I thought he would go and dig up his grave then incorporate his bones into his newest organ. That would be nicely disturbing. But even more so, if he had returned to the house, upgraded the organ in the organ house, killed Iris, then the flock came in mid “treatment,” Oscar could have confirmed she’s dead and then, miraculously, she could have been revived! Or at least they could leave it unclear. Like it may be a miracle or he may have the power. He should still go to prison for killing his mother and grave robbing but at least he accomplished something in his mind. In the actual version he just seems happy to have attention despite nothing working out when it could be that he gets the attention due to the revival. I would definitely read a romantic prequel starring Paulsen and Crest with the whole boat drama serving as a defining break in the relationship (a lot of tsundere behavior). Anyway, that’s enough yapping from me. I enjoyed this read since it was easy and carried a few good things to think about.
5171942683	I purchased this from BBW (Big Bad Wolf), and I think what drew me in was the synopsis and the cover (which gave me dark academia vibes, and it turns out I was right!). The synopsis (if you can call it that) was very short, and the book was wrapped up so tightly that I couldn't read the synopsis inside the book, so I knew almost nothing about it when I first started reading it. To be honest, I'm not sure whether to give this book three or four stars. I think it's the type of book that can captivate and intrigue you right away, but as you progress through it, disappointment begins to take over. It's not because of the characters, but because of the plot. I was expecting a plot twist or something equally shocking/thrilling to happen at the end, and something did happen. Alas, it was predictable. In my opinion, the author focuses too much on the characters (I must admit, all of the characters were lovely and generally likable, with the exception of Eden Bellwether; that much is obvious) and the plot simply isn't enough to catch up to the pile of information we have on the characters, if that makes sense. Also, now that I think about it, the book was quite often repetitive. What I really like about this book is that I learn a lot of new things (mostly about psychology), and I'm always happy to broaden my knowledge/understanding of different topics. I also liked how Oscar and Iris' romance was depicted; it was raw and, most importantly, realistic. I understand how a person like Oscar (who didn't have the best childhood and was thrust into the harsh reality of life) is attracted to the fragile innocence (kinda child-like) curiosity and depth in Iris. As a result, Oscar was forced to get to know Iris's brother, Eden, who is (unfortunately) a constant presence (more like a nuisance, especially in regards to Iris's love life a.k.a the people she associates with) in Iris's life. Lo and behold, Eden is a psycho who believes he can heal people with music. He also suffers from NPD (Narcissistic Personality Disorder), which is another shocker... not really... I do feel sorry for Oscar, who was thrown into the web of deceit that was Eden Bellwether and now has to bear the consequences of his willingness to assist Iris in discovering Eden's mental illness. "No good deed goes unpunished," as the saying goes.
3255388213	Okay, if you ever find yourself stuck in that book rut where you feel like you are reading the same story over and over again, that is when you need to pick up The Bellwether Revivals.I’ve found myself having that feeling a few times – same story/different characters, same story/different setting etc. and I can honestly say I have NEVER read a story similar to this.Wood does an amazing job of setting the scene for the entire novel just through his tone of writing and description of settings – everything feels a little haunted and downcast. Even moments of happiness never feel overly cheerful, as if there is always something lurking just out of sight.The build is like that of a thriller – a bit of suspense built up throughout but in smaller (calmer, for lack of a better word) doses that your typical type.Our main character Oscar is thrown in to a world in which he is a total outsider, yet fits in perfectly as a misfit type of personality. This tale is about his relationship with the Bellwether family and all that comes with it. As a full time care worker, Oscar is drawn in to the chapel at Kings College – a self described atheist, it is the organ playing that moves him. On exiting after the service he meets gorgeous Iris Bellwether.As their romance blossoms, Oscar is thrown in to Iris’ world of intellectual friends, privileged upbringing and the overpowering presence that is her older brother Eden.Eden and Oscar form a strained relationship and there is something off about Eden – something more than his arrogance, sense of entitlement or ill-temper. Something, that as their relationships grows, Iris admits to noticing too. After an evening where Eden hypnotises Oscar using music, injures and then seemingly cures him again, Iris confides that this happened many times to her throughout her childhood.A lot of twists, turns and complex characters are introduced along the way and the story can only be described as being set in an entirely accademic scene which really sets it apart.Before I started I read a lot of reviews on Goodreads (something I slap my own wrist about every time I do it) and it seemed to be a love or hate situation with no middle ground. I can definitely understand that after reading but I am 100% with the former. I thought this book was incredible.Have you read it? What did you think?
7520290804	Iris and Oscar who was the main character and is 20 years old had a relationship that seemed healthy. Eden was extremely bright ever since he was a child. Iris and Eden are the Bellweathers, that’s where the book got it’s title from. Eden was exceptional at playing the organ. Iris was playing the cello and studying medicine. Then there were their close group of friends including Marcus, Jane, and Yin who stuck by them. Where are they students? Cambridge. Not Massachusetts. Iris and Eden were brother and sister. Their parents were wealthy and came from wealth while Oscar never quite understood how he could rise above his parents humble origins. Oscar was a nursing assistant to Dr. Abraham “Bram” Paulsen who allowed him to read novels from his personal library. Oscar was not a student like Iris is in this book. Herbert Crest was a writer who wrote psychology books which were a centerpiece for the novel. Herbert and Bram were old friends. My favorite descriptions were of Eden, who was hands down the most accessible character in the book while also being the most narcissistic. Even his father, who was a surgeon, didn’t want anyone to diagnose him after Eden kept trying to magically heal people with his genius musical talents. Classical music, Liszt, Brahms, Mahler was the focus, I would say. I even found this book similar to the Prague Sonata by Bradford Morrow in some ways. Eden was entranced by the organ at St. Michael’s. I liked how Oscar was portrayed as a good person who helped Iris when she hurt her leg and how when she was stuck in the hospital after having screws put in it how she needed to have Oscar go smoke cloves to hover around her and smell the cloves and then the closeness made her crave it more. Viking has published good books that I like and when I saw Viking published it I was sold on reading it. I see this book is pigeonholed as “Psychological fiction” and yes, I agree with that categorization. It’s downright quizzical how the mind of Eden Bellweather works in secret mystery to the others and it's strange his healing power through music throughout the book.
1818054386	It took me a good 50 or 60 pages to really get into this book-- but from that point, I was hooked. A quote on the back cover compares "The Bellwether Revivals" to one of my favorite novels, Donna Tartt's "The Secret History." In a macro sense, these novels do have certain similarities: both are set in and around an elite college campus; both concern the induction of a curious outsider, of lesser means, into a cliquish and mysterious group of wealthy, intellectual undergraduates; both concern a tragedy at the hands of the group's de facto leader, whose brilliance is tinged with madness.But the similarities end when one begins to get into the heart of this story, and I think that is a positive thing. Almost nobody can measure up to the near perfection of Tartt's prose-- and is it any wonder, considering she spends about 10 years writing each novel? Matt Wood's novel is very good, but it can't measure up to "The Secret History."Oscar is a young caretaker working at a nursing home near Oxford University. He meets the lovely Iris Bellwether and is drawn into the close circle of her friends and narcissistic brother, Eden. All except Oscar are musically inclined. Eden is the resident organ scholar (who knew such a thing existed?), iris plays cello, and their friends are talented singers and musicians. This book is as much about the budding romance between Oscar and Iris as it is a psychological study of Eden's personality. He is conceited and obnoxious, but wildly talented. He seems to know things before they happen and to be privy to conversations that happen out of his earshot. The title of the novel concerns a series of experiments Eden conducts in which he uses music to heal people.One of the things I found quite interesting about this novel is how it walks a thin line between danger and safety. The characters in the novel are often able to rationalize Eden's behavior as annoying but harmless, and it is unclear whether he is truly dangerous or simply a bit of pill for most of the book.I liked the writing style a lot and the character of Oscar is likely to stay with me for some time. This book also stoked my interest in reading about narcissistic personality disorders, and I was disappointed that the book written by the character Herbert Crest is fictional. I would recommend this novel, but don't go into it expecting another "The Secret History." Give it a chance to stand on its own.
4490567741	It is my wholehearted belief that a book shouldn't judged (completely) by comparing it other books (unless, of course they are books by that author), so I won't compare it too much to more well-known 'dark academia' books like The Secret History, although it does have similar elements (i.e. eccentric people who have morally concerning traits, an even more morally concerning unfolding of events, etc. etc.I liked the style. The description, the prose - it was all (technical-skill-wise) well and good. In fact, it was more than all well and good. It was more than above average, and I liked (almost loved) it. The description of the organ music, and the introduction of Eden and Iris, was well-handled in the way that the writing was good. In theory.Maybe it's just my personal preference, but some of the plot just didn't hit(?) as much. Oscar and Iris were supposedly in love, but it felt a bit empty - I think some of it was intended that way, but I just didn't feel much of an attachment to the characters themselves: even Oscar. Outside of Oscar, Iris, and Eden, and their little world, the rest of the characters just didn't...hit. The plot had holes in it - again, I think some of it was intended that way - but some of it felt like bits hanging all over the place (like Eden and the (view spoiler)[magic healing (hide spoiler)])Maybe I'll read it again, when I'm not in a rush. I just really want to add that the author has potential, though. I love their style, and the way they write, but maybe not the way they wrote this book specifically. This book had potential, and loads of it, I just didn't enjoy all of what it had to offer.
