1766634317	It is said that the poem "To Autumn" marks the end of poetic career of Keats.He died at 25, writing poetry for only about 5 odd years. But I think he wrote enough, to exist in the hearts of poetry lovers world wide, forever.A collection of wonderfully composed, natural, sensual and emotional imagery of ...A romantic poet ! Lines from Final stanza of "To Autumn".....Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,–While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day,And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue "if poetry comes not as naturally as the Leaves to a tree it had better not come at all"- John Keats
2346210030	I have a true soft spot for the Romantics, and Keats especially. His poems manage to be both beautifully structured at the same time they're achingly full of feeling. It's quite a dizzying combination.
1534960543	Ah to be seventeen and in love for the first time, reading Keats. Outside the wind blows and animals cower in the restless undergrowth. The moon runs naked across the grass. And through the wall you can hear François the goalie snoring, his big belly perched so high above his sleeping head his dreams are filled with dump trucks and tricycle thieves. O how the wind blows and how the windows of my bedroom rattle like a laughing girl’s bra!Ah to be seventeen and in love for the first time, reading Keats…(Written at the lyrical age of twenty when already nostalgic for younger, more innocent days).
1916501	I'm going to come right out and say that I'm not usually a huge poetry fan. (Except in the epic sense where it's actually basically a novel, Byron, or Shakespeare.) But I make a huge exception for Keats. I adore Keats. All of Keats. You can't show me a poem of Keats that I wouldn't like. This stuff is so heartbreakingly beautiful sometimes, I can hardly stand it. If anyone else has a poet to recommend that they can't live without, please do. I would really like to get more into poetry. I just haven't found any poet (besides those already mentioned) to motivate me. Thanks!
3694243655	John Keats is a perfect illustration of one aspect of romanticism. He is probably the most sensuous poet in English and his poetry is a riot of sounds, colours, perfumes. However, there is nothing gaudy about his richness. It is all in keeping with a subdued tone which is sometimes one of melancholy, and sometimes one of nostalgia for far-off times or enchanted worlds.
117239370	Every morning I would wake at 7am just to read this work of genius.Keats was the Romantic poet who cared most about art and beauty. He didn't allow himself to get mixed up in religion and politics. But in quiet ways, he did comment on political, religious, aesthetic, and sexual beliefs, sometimes in ways that were less traditional than his poetic style. Above all, he was supremely conscious of beauty in the world, as well as the world's suffering. His 143page poem 'Endymion: A Poetic Romance' would have to be a favorite. I am certainly not one to judge poetic writings but this really stuck me down with the upmost awe. To quote the great man himself....WHAT is more gentle than a wind in summer?What is more soothing than the pretty hummerThat stays one moment in an open flower,And buzzes cheerily from bower to bower?What is more tranquil than a musk-rose blowingIn a green island, far from all men’s knowing?More healthful than the leafiness of dales?More secret than a nest of nightingales?More serene than Cordelia’s countenance?More full of visions than a high romance?What, but thee Sleep? Soft closer of our eyes!Low murmurer of tender lullabies!Light hoverer around our happy pillows!Wreather of poppy buds, and weeping willows!Silent entangler of a beauty’s tresses!Most happy listener! when the morning blessesThee for enlivening all the cheerful eyesThat glance so brightly at the new sun-rise
2866091172	Today I finshed reading The Complete Poems of John Keats, along with some of his letters. He was steeped in John Milton, Edmund Spenser, William Shakespeare, and mythology. His poetry is brilliant, captures the divine in the natural, and reminds me of the gift and brevity of life . It is very sad that he only lived until he was 25 and died in poverty; yet his legacy still lives on in his transcendent poetry. Many of my favorite writers praise his work, and I understand why.I found the modern library edition at a used bookstore in downtown Hendersonville, North Carolina for quite cheap to my utter joy, and the edition inspired by the film Bright Star at Waterstone's in Oxford, England.They had one copy after the bookseller told me, and I bolted upstairs to the poetry section to find it, and I did- I vividly remember that night. I greatly cherish both copies. My favorite poem out of them all is certainly Endymion which was published in 1818. My favorite line from Keats comes from Endymion, "A thing of beauty is a joy forever it's loveliness increases it will never pass into nothingness."
2453509698	review later
3639233699	This is a wonderful collection of poems by a passionate poet who was not only in love with someone but also in a constant dilemma of love... wonderful poetry!
1351588883	Keats? Johnny? What should I call you? I consider you a close friend, for you /always/ manage to speak to me on a very spiritual level. There is not really much I can say. If I began to talk about these poems, I'd write a novel. Simply amazing, genius, excellent, superb... you get the drill. Your poems have been my safe haven for the last six months now, and I can safely say you have made me fall in love with both life and death in the best ways possible. Thank you very much.
2490226230	The fact that John Keats died young had swayed my rating towards leniency. I've read the harsh reviews here, and I must admit that there is a grain of truth in some of them. As for the very positive reviews here, I fear that most of them have deviated from context and have been therefore biased with a parroting tone of extravagance. Keats was neither a lousy poet nor was he an excellent one, he had some remarkable and brilliant punchlines, particularly in his sonnets and odes, and yet he lacked message. Moreover, most of all he lacked originality. Therefore, with all due respect, in fairness, Keats cannot be regarded as one of England's most prominent poets. Yes, he was influenced by Shakespeare in use of archaism and yes he was very much influenced by John Milton and Chaucer in structure and rhymes (Observe his long epic poems). Furthermore, Keats quotes them and shows respect to his role models. However, what really destroyed the fun of reading his poems was the fact that his influential inspirations were on the verge of imitations. He was also influenced by Byron and Spencer among other past English poets and in some way these poets were equated with the Greek gods whom he worshipped. However, lack of character and lack of originality cannot be compensated by remarkable sonnets or by impressive artistic expressions. It is a pity. I've seen it happening to so many budding young poets. Thus, by imitating their role models they have degraded their own works. Keats was very much influenced by the Greek mythology as well in his poems, which is impressive, but on merits he was more digressive than impressive and more ambitious than original. Unlike Milton or Chaucer, his long epic poems faded away into abstraction. Keats tendency to merge with abstraction was also expressed in some of his sonnets and odes. He wrote sonnets and odes to and on 'sleep, fame, peace, melancholy, fancy' and to and on 'Apollo, Byron, Spencer, Homer' etc. He was a fascinated poet. He could write about anything. His admiration of nature and poetry was felt throughout his entire poetical works. Keats was an extraordinary versifier, and a very powerful expressionist. But what is the power to versify worth when it doesn't end with a great message? Throughout the entire collection I've felt that John Keats had the same character as of Theodore from 'The Monk' by Matthew Lewis. Admiring poetry and full of the joy of spring of youth. Yes, Keats was young at the time he wrote his poems, and some of them were really enjoyable, but think about it as such, a caterpillar is not as remarkable as when it is a butterfly. I felt that Keats were somewhat immature, somewhat rapt in reverie of narcissism. Keats linguistic creativity was somewhat restrictive and rigid in rhymes patterns and structure. His creative writing tendency was rather conservative than liberal. As a reader I was longing for the formation of an identity. Sadly his lack of originality rendered his poetry preliminary and experimental, aye, in his first evolutionary stages. I admired Keats passion for life and for nature and I admired his love for humanity. Artistic beauty and powerful poetical utterances shaped him and made him a brilliant young poet with a great potential. But a butterfly without wings is just a caterpillar. On merits Keats did not quite diverge from orthodox linguistic conventions in English poetry. His archaic tone was in conformity with poetical language and in line with the set of conventions which revealed his true nature as a budding poet. I wish Keats lived longer, for some of his poems suggest that he could have been one of England's greatest poets by merits, rather than by aspirations. Here are some few interesting verses which intrigued me: In 'Sonnet on the Sonnet' he wrote,'If by dull rhymes our English must be chainedAnd, like Andromeda, the Sonnet sweetFettered, in spite of pained loveliness,Let us find out, if we must be constrainedSandals more interwoven and completeTo fit the naked foot of Poesy'Paradoxically Keats questions the restriction which he himself used in most of his poetry. Only in 'The Fall of Hyperion' which he wrote two years before his death he has evolved and broke free from the dull structure of rigid rhymes. He evolved from a caterpillar to a Pupa, which is a transitional stage before becoming a butterfly. I was happy that he was aware of it, and I know he was on the right path to become an original free spirited poet. It was really encouraging to read it. The third stanza in 'Ode on melancholy' begins with the following two lines'She dwells with beauty- Beauty that must dieAnd joy, whose hand is ever at his lips' Here I thought it was ironic as Keats also implied in other poems that the notion of death is superior to life. He also implied that he would die young, a fact which contributes to the mood of melancholy in some of his poems. At the same ode he advocates for the negative polarity and for the weak in humanity, in my interpretation the poet here is also an altruist.In 'Sleep and poetry' I enjoyed the half chorus in the fourth stanza:'Oh Poesy! For thee I hold my penThat am not yet a glorious denizen'And later on 'Oh Poesy! For thee I grasp my penThat am not yet a glorious denizen' Despite the use of archaism 'Thee' which is a typical Shakespearean expression there was something epic about the bard's exclamation. In other words Keats admits that he is not yet worthy to be among England's elite of poets. Yes, he loves poetry and he adores, it, but to be an established prominent poet requires maturity, particularly an empirical one. I also enjoyed the first two lines of the fifth stanza in the same poem'Stop and consider! Life is but a day;A fragile dewdrop on its perilous way'Keats is not entirely without message. His grand message, probably his only message is 'Carpe Diem' Enjoy the moment, enjoy life. Life is short, live it to the full. The same message appears also in his very first poem 'I stood tiptoe upon a little hill' where nature is majestic in description. Here I also enjoyed the following oxymoron:'A little noiseless noise among the leaves' And the following use of alliteration'Or by the Bowery clefts and leafy shelves' And the powerful expression 'Starry diadems' impressed me as wellKeats is an emotive talented poet, no doubt, and despite his abstract and narcissistic tendencies and despite his young age, he does strike a chord here and there. Keats most brilliant poem ever in my humble view is a short two stanzas poem called 'On death'I 'Can death be sleep, when life is but a dream,And scenes of bliss pass as a phantom by?The transient pleasures as a vision seem,And yet we think the greatest pain's to die. IIHow strange it is that man on earth should roam,And lead a life of woe, but not forsakeHis rugged path; nor dare he view aloneHis future doom which is but to awake. Here there was both artistic beauty and grand a message. It gives solace when we think about death. Simply brilliant. All in all I recommend reading a book of 'Selected poems' by Keats instead of this one.
216233993	John Keats... lovely as his writings were, achieved fame only posthumously. Posthumous fame has to be one of the saddest things for an artist, especially for John Keats, whose situation never really got any happier. The poor lad died at the age of 29 after struggling with tuberculosis for years. As if this were not bad enough, critics of his time were very harsh on him... they disliked him because he did not derive from a wealthy family, and claimed that an farm boy like John Keats cannot possibly write such poetry, and that he probably plagiarized it. Were not the same claims made about William Shakespeare?John Keats' poetry was much more morbid than his fellow Romantic and poet laureate William Wordsworth. Keats' poetry was nevertheless beautiful and focused on the power of imagination, whereas Wordsworth's poetry emphasized more on the deification of nature and the innocence of childhood. Back in my Polyanna days I admired William Wordsworth more than any of the Romantics. That happiness and sense of bliss that permeates his poetry greatly appealed to me. My admiration for him reached its peak when I was about 19, then slowly it waned. Perhaps it is partly due to cynicism, and partly to have read other more critical writers like William Blake... but suddenly John Keats is the guy. How can anyone not be touched with poems like, "When I Have Fears That I May Cease To Be," "Ode To Melancholy," "Ode To A Nightingale," or "Ode To A Grecian Urn?" How can any poetic soul not be but gay when relishing in the allusions to Greek mythology that are typical of Keats or reflect melancholically on the brevity of all that is beautiful? Such characteristics are typical of Romantic Poetry, and in my opinion, John Keats is the best one of the Romantics when it comes to conveying such things.That is too bad Keats did not achieve his lifelong dream of becoming a famous writer. If only he knew what my generation knows now! If only he knew his works are part of the literary canon and have become basic required reading for English majors!
95134879	I have to admit that it was the movie Bright Star that got me to read the very slim oveare that is Keat's body of work. Yet, for such a small output, it had a huge following. Keats is very influentional through out the Victorian age. There are all kinds of influence on writers from Tennyson to Matthew Arnold and Browning. It seems to me that a major theme in Keats is work is potential unfufilled. It is a major theme in Ode to a Grecian Urn and Eve of Saint Agnes, where the love story is told from the point of view of two people who never knew love in their lives. Ode to a Grecian Urn isn't about truth being beauty, but about a moment frozen in time. It is literally sung to those who are stuck in time and unable to fulfill what they want to do. It is no surprise that major characters like the nightingale and Psyche die in realizing their potential, much like Keats himself did. Tennyson would return to these themes in poems like The Lady of Shalott and others which really show Keats influence. I really enjoyed reading this.
68572680	People always pair Keats and Milton. Milton shmilton. Keats is the man. Probably the finest English poet. I think he should shack up with John Donne. Wouldn’t you like to take a walk with those two by your side? I wonder if they ever wrote any dirty limericks? Think Of It Not, Sweet OneJohn KeatsThink not of it, sweet one, so;— Give it not a tear;Sigh thou mayst, and bid it go Any—anywhere.Do not lool so sad, sweet one,— Sad and fadingly;Shed one drop then,—it is gone— O ’twas born to die!Still so pale? then, dearest, weep; Weep, I’ll count the tears,And each one shall be a bliss For thee in after years.Brighter has it left thine eyes Than a sunny rill;And thy whispering melodies Are tenderer still.Yet—as all things mourn awhile At fleeting blisses,E’en let us too! but be our dirge A dirge of kisses.
4391344792	This is my first time reading Keats and I was pleasantly surprised. I did not think that romantic poetry would be my cup of tea but each poem and sonnet were delightful and touched the deepest parts of my soul. Hyperion, Endymion, and the 5 Odes (particularly Melancholy and Nightingale) were some of the most memorable works. I think what's the most surprising is how each poem reads like a miniature story while the longer poems feel like novellas. I want to live in a world of words by John Keats. I read this book of poems because I watched Emma Angeline's classic books for each zodiac sign video and this was suggested for Pisces which is my moon sign. Needless to say, I was impressed.
18540671	I bring this with me when I am forced to ride the Metro. Mostly I read "Ode to a Nightengale", "Ode on Melancholy" and "The Eve of St. Agnes" and teeter on the edge of crying and not-crying. I think he really understood depression. Hit up that last stanza of "Melancholy" and you'll have a little window into my brain. Mom assures me that "Endymion" will also make me cry. Maybe it will make you cry, too!
1348233737	MY FAVORITE POET EVER. Super sophisticated review, right?
3866233869	Sobre la edición de The Modern LibraryEste volumen de los poemas completos de John Keats ha sido el texto central de mi "inmersión" en la vida y obra del poeta romántico inglés entre mediados de marzo y finales de abril de 2021.Es una edición cuidada, con cubiertas de cartón duro y lomo de tela, y la característica sobrecubierta de la editorial con el emblema del corredor y la antocha. La tipográfica es —o recuerda a— la utilizada en las ediciones más antiguas de las obras de Keats, y el papel es de calidad. El orden de las obras sigue el de las tres publicaciones en vida del autor (1817, 1818 y 1820), aunque los poemas publicados a posteriori se juntan en una categoría general denominada "Posthumous and Fugitive Poems", que ya Sélincourt empleo en su edición anotada de 1905. En esta edición de la Modern Library, sin embargo, no se explica la fuente o la historia editorial del texto publicado, lo cual es un punto negativo. La breve introducción de cuatro páginas se limita a resumir la biografía de Keats.Una edición alternativa, que tal vez hubiese sido más recomendable para abordar la lectura y estudio de la obra de Keats, es la de Jack Stillinger, publicada por Harvard University Press en 1978; esta es quizás hoy la edición de referencia. En ella, el orden de presentación de los poemas sigue la secuencia cronólogica en la que los expertos creen que se escribieron; un orden distinto del de la edición de The Modern Library objeto de esta reseña.El contenido del libro1. Poems, publicado el 3 de marzo de 1817, que se inicia y se cierra con dos poemas relativamente extensos: "I stood tip-toe upon a little hill" (124 decasilabos pareados) "Sleep and Poetry" (202 decasílabos pareados). Entre ellos se encuentran tres epístolas (una de ellas dedicada a su hermano George) y 17 sonetos, de los cuales he leído o traducido (marcados con *) los siguientes: I. To my brother George* VII. ("O Solitude !")* XI. On First Looking into Chapman's Homer* XIV. Addressed to Haydon ("Great Spirits")* XV. On the Grasshoper and Cricket* XVII. Happy is England2. Endymion, a poetic romance, publicado en abril de 1818. Son cuatro libros, cada uno de aproximadamente 500 decasílabos o endecasílabos pareados. Sólo he leído o traducido: los bellos y evocadores 62 versos iniciales, que se inician con el famoso "A thing of beauty is a joy for ever"; el llamado "Himno a Pan" (versos 232-306); y el fragmento "Wherein lies Happiness" (versos 707-802). Es una obra que Julio Cortázar consideraba imperfecta, pero digna de ser leída; cosa que, según el propio escritor, hacía cada dos años.3. Lamia, Isabella, the Eve of St. Agnes and other poems, publicado en 1820, en la que esos "otros poemas" son ni más ni menos que sus grandes odas y los tres libros de "Hiperión", que quedó sin completar. Las odas, todas leídas y algunas traducidas (marcadas con *), son las siguientes:Ode to a NightingaleOde on a Grecian Urn*Ode to PsyqueFancy*Ode ["Bards of Passion and of Mirth"]*Lines on the Mermaid Tavern*To Autumn*Ode on MelancholyEn cuanto a "Hiperión", para muchos la obra maestra de Keats, he leído y traducido los primeros 71 versos de los 357 de que consta el primer libro. Espero tener tiempo más adelante para continuar ese trabajo, pues la traducción de Gustavo Falaqueras para la editorial Hiperión no me ha gustado mucho.4.Posthumous and Fugitive Poems, que incluye una larga lista de sonetos y poemas no publicados en vida del autor, muchos de ellos contenidos en su abundante correspondencia a hermanos y amigos. Entre ellos, destaco los siguientes (la marca * indica, de nuevo, los poemas que he traducido al castellano):Sonnet on Death*Sonnet to Byron*Sonnet on seeing the Elgin marblesSonnet on the SeaSonnet to a CatSonnet on Sitting Down to read King Lear once Again*Sonnet (“When I have fears that I may cease to be”)*What the Trush said*Epistle to Reynolds (*solo la 1a estrofa)Fragment of an Ode to Maia*Sonnet on Visiting the tomb of BurnsMeg Merrilies*Sonnet to Ailsa RockSonnet to Sleep*Song: I had a dove*Ode on IndolenceSonnet ("Why did I laugh to-night")La Belle Dame sans MerciEl último poema de la lista anterior ("La Belle Dame sans Merci") no puede decirse con entero rigor que fuera publicado de manera póstuma, pues apareció en el número de 10 de mayo de 1820 de The Indicator, aun en vida del autor; si bien es verdad que el nombre de Keats no aparece en dicha publicación.5.Other woks and poems written late in 1819, donde se incluye una obra importante como es "The Fall of Hyperion, a dream". Este poema narrativo fue el último intento de Keats (entre julio y septiembre de 1819) de reconducir su incompleto "Hiperión", que había abandonado en abril de ese mismo año (aunque se publicara en contra de su deseo en su primer volumen de poemas en marzo de 1820). También encontramos en este último apartado, esos terribles versos al parecer dirigidos a su novia Fanny Brawne ("This living hand"), así como el famoso soneto "Bright Star"*. Sin embargo, con respecto a este soneto, Joseph Severn, amigo de Keats, afirmaba que fue a finales de septiembre de 1820 (y no de 1819) cuando el propio poeta lo copió en un ejemplar de las obras poéticas de Shakespeare que él le había regalado. En todo caso, no fue publicado hasta 1838 en The Plymouth and Devonport Weekly Journal. Mi breve valoración de la selección de las obras leídasNo puedo decir que haya leído todos los poemas de Keats contenidos en esta edición de The Modern Library, pues mi forma de abordar la lectura ha sido en gran medida mediante la traducción de los poemas, y eso consume tiempo. Pero la mayor parte de las obras que he leído o traducido (sonetos, odas y poemas narrativos) me parecen bellas y a la vez profundas; de una profundidad que no se agota en una lectura y que se va revelando con el tiempo.Keats era un poeta puro, que miraba hacia Shakespeare, que buscaba la belleza a través de la forma y de la imaginación, que huía de cualquier intento de dotar a su poesía de "mensaje" o de reflejarse en ella de modo autobiográfico. La lectura de su poesía cobra aun más sentido cuando se hace conjuntamente con su abundante correspondencia con hermano, con amigos y con su novia, a través de la cual el lector contemporaneo asiste a su extraordinaria evolución como poeta en apenas tres años. Murió a los 25 años.De lo leído, me han conmovido especialmente tres obras: la elegante, clásica y evocativa "Oda a una Urna Griega"; el intenso y electrizante poema narrativo "La Víspera de Santa Inés"; y el conmovedor soneto "When I have fears". Por otra parte, lo que menos me ha gustado ha sido el poema narrativo "Isabella" y algunos sonetos que, en un posible afán de filosofar de su autor, se hacen prácticamente incomprensibles, como es el caso de "On seeing the Elgin marbles".Recursos utilizados durante la lectura: cartas, traducciones de la obra poética y audiolibrosHe usado cuatro recursos auxiliares para leer esta edición completa de la obra de Keats. El primero y más importante ha sido la lectura de una parte importante de la correspondencia de Keats, lo cual dota de un contexto excepcional a la lectura de los poemas, como explico >>aquíEl segundo recurso ha consistido en la escucha de los poemas y parte de las cartas a través de las excelentes narraciones de los actores británicos Samuel West y Michael Sheen en los audiolibros de Naxos en Audible. Es una forma muy efectiva de sumergirse en cualquier obra poética, pues la poesía es para ser leída y oída, más que para ser leída en silencio.El tercer recurso empleado ha sido el de las traducciones hechas en castellano. He consultar hasta siete de estas: Julio Cortázar, M.Manent, José María Martín Triana, Alejandro Valero, Gustavo Falaquera, Antonio Rivero Taravillo y Rafael Lobarte. He contado con ellas para mi lectura del original porque, aun si el lector domina la lengua original, conviene mirar como han interpretado unos y otros este o aquel pasaje o frase de la obra al verterla al castellano. Esto ayuda al lector a descubrir matices no captados en una primera lectura del original o, al revés, a revelar la impericia de un traductor. He comentado cuatro de esas traducciones >>aquí , >>aquí, >>aquí y >>aquí.Por último, un acompañante distinguido y amigable en mi convivencia con John Keats ha sido la peculiar monografía de Julio Cortázar titulada Imagen de John Keats, reseñada >>aquí
4895430658	‘can death be sleep, when life is but a dream, and scenes of bliss pass as phantom by? the transcient pleasures as a vision seem, and yet we think the greatest pain’s to die.’
4991135985	I was, oddly, not taken with much of Keats' verses.
5832344042	3.5 ⭐️
378868343	I am in LOVE with Keats. He's one of my favorites if not my absolute FAVORITE poet. His sonnets are deep touching and beautiful. His poem "the Lamia" and "Bright Star" are so beautifully written. If you haven't yet aquainted yourself with him, buy a book of his poetry and start. If you can get a hold of some of his written letters (they are often published with his poems) read them, it's so interesting to see his thought process!
2990985241	A wonderful poet John Keats was and so were his poems... romance, nature, love, affection, questions, confusions, solutions... longing for the past that wasn't there and perturbed with the present that was very much present!
183786133	What a beautiful poet and beautiful man - he died too soon. I love the poetry, the letters, all of it. Found it on Google for free (pubilc domain!) in e-book form, sought it out after watching the movie Bright Star, about his love affair with Fanny Brawne. I recommend that as well.
5201863318	This took me nine months to get through. I am very glad that I read his "complete works," although I cannot admit as much that it was easy.In my opinion, why Keats is considered one of the greats:EndymionLamiaHyperionThe Eve of St. AgnesOde to a Grecian UrnI Stood Tip-Toe upon a Little HillPoems that I loved that I think make Keats greatSleep and PoetryOde to MelancholyOde to a NightingaleOde to PsycheSonnet (When I have fears that I may cease to be)Poems that show Keats' wry sense of humor(I also absolutely love these)Sonnet to a CatSharing Eve's AppleKeats wants the mystery back in life; Keats doesn't just dream of the fall of the Titans, he dances with the Fairies and sings with the Nymphs; he revels in carousal with Bacchus and his retinue, basks in the inspired poetic light of Apollo, and leaps through the forest with Artemis. Keats is too busy sleeping or writing poetry to be bothered (too much) by modern society. Keats longed for the eternal sleep, and he ultimately got it, quite young, if I may add.I will be returning to him in times of need. When one must choose Yeats or Keats, go with the latter!-b
3059710076	It's amazing to think that the guy wrote all this before dying at just 25 years old, mindblowing in fact. There is all sorts in this complete collection of his work, short poems, long poems, narrative poems, plays, I can't say I loved everything but a lot of it is really good. Highlights ~ "O Solitude! if I must with thee dwell" "Give me women, wine, and snuff" "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" "sleep and poetry" "endymion" "On Sitting Down to Read King Lear Once Again" "God of the meridian" "Isabella, or the Pot of Basil" "Welcome joy, and welcome sorrow" "why did i laugh tonight?" "ode on a grecian urn" "ode to a nightingale" "ode on melancholy" "lamia" "to autumn" and “Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art”.
5929388727	Yes yes; už po mě v té škole něco chtějí. Velice krásně napsaná poezie, lehko se jí rozumí, zajímavá témata i motivy - ještě více se ve mě upevnil ten fakt, že nejvíce sympatický mi je právě romantismus. Do seznamu svých oblíbených autorů bych Keatse nezařadila, ale jsem ráda, že jsem si opět rozšířila obzor :)
2288992821	Although I cannot relate to most of these poems, I cannot help but adore their wording. I love the intense passion of the romantics !!!
6018869120	I liked his writing but some of the poems were too long to be considered poems
7697016887	It's all about the odes!
5063808957	keats you did good your poetry sounds eloquently beautiful. actually enjoyed the prescribed texts.
3354287655	Well, I can see what all the fuss is about Keats. He's certainly not overrated. Some very lyrical phrases in here. "Midnight spirit-nurse" was one of my favorites.
2905382945	Sorry Johnny mate, I just don't think we operate on the same level.Not the kind of poetry for me, I have to say. Clearly I am not enough of a romantic!Most of the poems in this collection can be categorised into one of two types;-"I saw a beautiful tree/stream/greek urn today; isn't the world full of wonders?"-"I haven't seen anything beautiful today; the world is cruel and I will never write poetry again, woe is me!"It is difficult for me to relate to the hyperbole found here, and the poetry itself just doesn't chime either.Hyperion probably is the highlight for me, but not as far as the poetry has merit; purely the concept and the crazy nonsense ideas.Sorry Dan Simmons, I tried.
5891921061	Less one liners from him but the sing song nature of his poetry makes me feel light and airy. Beautiful. Well done!
1854124572	Personal Response:I only read the poem "To Autumn" from this book's collection of poems. I thought this poem was a pretty good one. It was pretty easy to read the whole thing with a high level of understanding. I think I really enjoyed the poem because I was able to really connect to it by my own experiences.Plot:There is not a true plot to this poem, only that it describes what all an autumn day will hold. The author describes the changing of the plants and sounds. He also describes the actions of some animals in autumn in contrast to spring. Nothing is described in much detail, but as a reader, it is simple enough to understand the points the author is trying to make.Characterization:There were no named characters in this poem, but I think that the author, John Keats, is incorporating himself as a character and narrator. I believe that he is trying to explain, from a singular first person view, what he sees in autumn. Another possibility is that he is simply using personification on some objects according to how they act due to the autumn weather.Recommendation:I would recommend this poem to just about anyone. It is a gender neutral poem and very easy to read. Comprehension may be a little difficult for some, but most people can get the general point of the poem. It is also a very good poem to read if you need to write a Goodreads report one day before the due date.
5203920935	fuck me i love keats
2285131135	"[...] dearest love, sweet home of all my fears,And hopes, and joys, and panting miseries."Keats, you are the bane of my existence, and the object of all my desires...
4384736526	JOHN KEATS-POEMSMalo poezije i jesenjih boja,pošto pada sneg 😁❄🍁🍂✒GIVE ME WOMEN,WINE,AND SNUFFGIVE me women, wine, and snuffUntil I cry out "hold, enough!"You may do so sans objectionTill the day of resurrection:For, bless my beard, they aye shall beMy beloved Trinity.✒MEG MERRILIESOLD Meg she was a gypsy;And liv'd upon the moors:Her bed it was the brown heath turf,And her house was out of doors.Her apples were swart blackberries,Her currants, pods o' broom;Her wine was dew of the wild white rose,Her book a church-yard tomb.Her brothers were the craggy hills,Her sisters larchen trees;Alone with her great familyShe liv'd as she did please.No breakfast had she many a morn,No dinner many a noon,And 'stead of supper she would stareFull hard against the moon.But every morn, of woodbine freshShe made her garlanding,And every night the dark glen yewShe wove, and she would sing.And with her fingers old and brownShe plaited mats o' rushes,And gave them to the cottagersShe met among the bushes.Old Meg was brave as Margaret Queen,And tall as Amazon:An old red blanket cloak she wore,A chip hat had she on.God rest her aged bones somewhere---She died full long agone!✒TO MRS REYNOLDS' CATCat! who hast pass’d thy grand climacteric,How many mice and rats hast in thy daysDestroy’d? How many tit bits stolen? GazeWith those bright languid segments green, and prickThose velvet ears - but pr’ythee do not stickThy latent talons in me - and upraiseThy gentle mew - and tell me all thy frays,Of fish and mice, and rats and tender chick.Nay, look not down, nor lick thy dainty wrists -For all thy wheezy asthma - and for allThy tail’s tip is nick’d off - and though the fistsOf many a maid have given thee many a maul,Still is that fur as soft, as when the listsIn youth thou enter’dest on glass bottled wall.⬇️⬇️⬇️#7sensesofabook #poetry #bookstagram #knjige #readingaddict #literature
3039667273	I do love me some Keats. Melodramatic, a devotee to snuff and a searcher for the divine, he stirs nonsense and the troubles of his soul together in a delectable soup of poetry. His preachier poems are best consumed with a grain of salt and washed back with some anti-depressants. This is a nice collection of his work. It is well laid out. The preface is a bit of a dry read, but I can't say it bothered me.
4472726209	It's an amazing book and you will wind all the poems of John Keats in it and they are properly organized in this accordingly so you want have to struggle much to find a poem you want.The quality of pages is kind of not good and the font is small but other than that the book is perfect.
4781010231	3.5*
4985568351	had to do it for a-level. if i could rate it 0 stars i would. i wish he had died with the rest of his family or been trampled by a horse alongside his dad.
6616067342	‘and he in loneliness: he felt assur’dof happy times, when all he had endured would seem a feather to the mighty prize’ ‘what can i do to drive away remembrance from my eyes?’
4823705236	انا المجنون اللي قرأت له عشان شي-غا (من قضية السجل الطبي)و منها اتثقفنا زيادة و استمتعت بصراحة جدا!!
6980952973	This man will impress you!
4039322046	The only appropriately melodramatic response to having experienced these enchanting poems is, in the words of Shelley, "I pant, I sink, I tremble, I expire"!
6597255760	I am a damn Keats convert. Love you sweet baby angel. 🤌🏼
6359986947	British Lit
7031361039	A master of the English language. Placed in the pantheon alongside Shakespeare, Homer, Whitman, and Wordsworth. Excellent collection with some very important context in the introduction.
6448893762	the flowers bloom and spark once i bring a line of yours near them, Keats.
6904136250	THE COMPLETE POEMS - John Keats: 2John Keats has written many poems—and many of them begin to sound the same, when you read through them. His vocabulary repeats enough that I noticed it, and he rhymes plentifully, which I've rather taken a disliking for, following epic tradition, (which is interesting, since Keats shifts into epic blank verse for “Hyperion: A Fragment," and his other longer pieces.) However, all hope is not lost for this book. The aforementioned “Hyperion” is a standout epic, along with several other long poems. Also, the musicality in some of his writing is genius, it’s so pitch-perfect I can practically hear the instruments.Here's my attempt at mimicking Keats:An ode to the pinions of the blue bird,Which flew dauntingly past my window gird’,I did then imagine myself flying,And over land, and sea, and town tryingTo capture in my heart essential youth,Shady, and windy, and cool, the real truthOf an innocent world, shine pearlescent,Protected by mother’s arms, ne’er absent.
226445280	It seems I have found a poet I don't like at all. I know his poetry is loved by many, but I fear I will not be one of them. Granted I have read only the 21 poems found in this book and I really don't know how many more he wrote, although dying at the way too young age of 25 didn't give him enough time to be really prolific. Poetry is such a subjective thing that it's difficult to explain why one likes some and not others but I'll try to pinpoint some of the things that kept me at arm's length.Keats' language is too flowery and too sweet for me. It makes we wonder if he ever had simple thoughts like the rest of us, though it's probably closer to the truth that he had the simple thoughts but never thought to express them simply. When he writes about love, it positively drips. And for me there's too much talk of dew and mist and moon and such. I realize that this is all a matter of individual taste and I don't mean any disrespect to Keats or his fans. It simply doesn't appeal to me.These poems are saturated with references to mythology and fairy tales that I am unfamiliar with. That is my lack of education of course and no fault of his, but it's a struggle to stay focused when I have no idea what he's talking about.On a positive note I did enjoy the rather lengthy poem "To My Brother George". It was wordy but I found it easier to read than most of the others. I liked Keats' thoughts about the legacy of the poetry he will leave behind and how it may one day serve to stir people to action and inspire them to goodness. To be honest I shouldn't really say I enjoyed it, I just sort of disliked it less than the rest of the book.I read this book through Daily Lit, a web site that will send you short installments of a book over as long or short a time period as you choose, by email. This one was sent in 21 installments whereas War and Peace has over 600 installments. I am finding it a good way to read books that I might never otherwise get to.You can check out their library at dailylit.com.
7590581149	Il 23 febbraio 1821, il poeta inglese John Keats morì di tubercolosi a Roma all’età di 25 anni. “Sarò presto deposto nella tomba tranquilla, grazie a Dio”, disse al suo amico Joseph Severn, nelle cui braccia morì. “Posso sentire la terra fredda su di me, le margherite che crescono su di me, oh per questa quiete, sarà la mia prima.”Keats diede istruzioni affinché sulla sua lapide venisse incisa la scritta “qui giace uno il cui nome era scritto nell’acqua”, e i visitatori del cimitero protestante di Roma possono ancora fare un pellegrinaggio per vederlo oggi. Ma lungi dall’essere “scritte in acqua”, le parole di Keats continuano a risuonare, con una miriade di scritti ed eventi che hanno celebrato il 200 ° anniversario della sua morte.“La bellezza, in quanto essenza, non appartiene al mondo fisico, ragion per cui non la si può afferrare e ancor meno possedere; non appena ci si avvicina per sfiorarla, essa sfugge. La bellezza è un mondo fatto esclusivamente per gli occhi; non è destinata né alla bocca né alle mani. Ama essere guardata, ma non sopporta di essere toccata. Occorre quindi essere sempre molto attenti quando si incontra un essere bello. Chi non ha un giusto atteggiamento, può scacciare le entità celesti che abitano in quell’essere dandogli tale bellezza; e se quelle entità si allontanano, lui pure soffrirà, perché perderà l’elemento impalpabile che abbelliva al tempo stesso anche la sua vita. La nostra gioia e la nostra ispirazione dipendono quindi dal rispetto che manifestiamo verso la bellezza. Imparando ogni giorno a contemplarla, assaporiamo la vera vita.”— —“Beauty, in its essence, does not belong to the physical world, and that is why we cannot grasp hold of it, much less own it. As soon as you draw close enough to touch it, it slips away. Beauty is a world made exclusively for the eyes; it is not meant for the mouth or hands. It likes to be looked at but cannot bear to be touched. So when you meet people who are beautiful you must always be very careful. If you do not have the right attitude, you can chase away the heavenly entities that inhabit these people, those that give them their beauty. And if these entities go away, you too will suffer, for you will lose this intangible element that simultaneously made your own life beautiful. So our joy and inspiration depend on the respect we have for beauty. By learning how to contemplate it every day, we are given a taste of true life.”— -Ode su un’Urna Greca1.Tu, ancora inviolata sposa della quiete,Figlia adottiva del tempo lento e del silenzio,Narratrice silvana, tu che una favola fioritaRacconti, più dolce dei miei versi,Quale intarsiata leggenda di foglie pervadeLa tua forma, sono dei o mortali,O entrambi, insieme, a Tempo o in Arcadia?E che uomini sono? Che dei? E le fanciulle ritrose?Qual è la folle ricerca? E la fuga tentata?E i flauti, e i cembali? Quale estasi selvaggia?2.Sì, le melodie ascoltate sono dolci; ma più dolciAncora sono quelle inascoltate. Su, flauti lievi,Continuate, ma non per l’udito; preziosamenteSuonate per lo spirito arie senza suono.E tu, giovane, bello, non potrai mai finireIl tuo canto sotto quegli alberi che mai saranno spogli;E tu, amante audace, non potrai mai baciareLei che ti è così vicino; ma non lamentartiSe la gioia ti sfugge: lei non potrà mai fuggire,E tu l’amerai per sempre, per sempre così bella.3.Ah, rami felici! Non saranno mai sparseLe vostre foglie, e mai diranno addio alla primavera;E felice anche te, musico mai stanco,Che sempre e sempre nuovi canti avrai;Ma più felice te, amore più felice,Per sempre caldo e ancora da godere,Per sempre ansimante, giovane in eterno,Superiori siete a ogni vivente passione umanaChe il cuore addolorato lascia e sazio,La fronte in fiamme, secca la lingua.4.E chi siete voi, che andate al sacrificio?Verso quale verde altare, sacerdote misterioso,Conduci la giovenca muggente, i fianchiMorbidi coperti da ghirlande?E quale paese sul mare, o sul fiume,O inerpicato tra la pace dei montiHai mai lasciato questa gente in questo sacro mattino?Silenziose, o paese, le tue strade saranno per sempre,E mai nessuno tornerà a direPerché sei stato abbandonato.5.Oh, forma attica! Posa leggiadra! Con un ricamoD’uomini e fanciulle nel marmo,Coi rami della foresta e le erbe calpestate.Tu, forma silenziosa, come l’eternitàTormenti e spezzi la nostra ragione. Fredda pastorale!Quando l’età avrà devastato questa generazione,Ancora tu ci sarai, eterna, tra nuovi doloriNon più nostri, amica all’uomo, cui dirai“Bellezza è verità, verità bellezza”, questo soloSulla terra sapete, ed è quanto basta.----Thou still unravished bride of quietness!Thou foster-child of silence and slow time,Sylvan historian, who canst thus expressA flow’ry tale more sweetly than our rhyme:What leaf-fringed legend haunts about thy shapeOf deities or mortals, or of both,In Tempe or the dales of Arcady?What men or gods are these? What maidens loth?What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape?What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy?Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheardAre sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;Not to the sensual ear, but, more endeared,Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leaveThy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss,Though winning near the goal -yet, do not grieve;She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shedYour leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu;And, happy melodist, unwearied,For ever piping songs for ever new;More happy love! more happy, happy love!For ever warm and still to be enjoyed,For ever panting and for ever young;All breathing human passion far above,That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloyed,A burning forehead, and a parching tongue.Who are these coming to the sacrifice?To what green altar, O mysterious priest,Lead’st thou that heifer lowing at the skies,And all her silken flanks with garlands drest?What little town by river or sea-shore,Or mountain-built with peaceful citadel,Is emptied of its folk, this pious morn?And, little town, thy streets for evermoreWill silent be; and not a soul to tellWhy thou art desolate, can e’er return.O Attic shape! Fair attitude! with bredeOf marble men and maidens overwrought,With forest branches and the trodden weed;Thou, silent form, dost tease us out of thoughtAs doth eternity: Cold pastoral!When old age shall this generation waste,Thou shalt remain, in midst of other woeThan ours, a friend to man, to whom thou sayst,“Beauty is truth, truth beauty,” -that is allYe know on earth, and all ye need to know.
745593296	I don't read much poetry, and when I do it's modern and in-your-face. However, I saw the Jane Campion movie, Bright Star, which focuses on the doomed romance between John Keats and Fanny Brawne. It's so beautiful, and it made me want to learn more about Keats. So I read The Complete Poems cover to cover, in order. I will not tell you I found it easy, but it was rewarding. Keats surprised me and, at times, moved me.On the surface, his romantic style, seemed very far removed from my modern sensibilities. Then I would happen on a short little poem he wrote about something in his life and the centuries between us would vanish. For instance, once I picked up the book when I had insomnia and ran into "To Sleep", an insomniac's eloquent plea: "...close in midst of this thin hymn, my willing eyes,". As an unknown writer, I appreciated the poems he wrote about the fickleness of fame: "She is gipsy, will not speak to those Who have not learnt to be content without her;".His longer poems are stories based on figures in Greek and Roman mythology. I found these hard to stick with until I decided to pretend he'd made all these characters up, himself (just as modern paranormal fantasy writers like Sherrilyn Kenyon have done). It worked! Suddenly, I was pulled into the hearts of these characters, and I felt their conflicts.When Keats was unable to be with his fiancee, he wrote poems full of frustrated desire. Here's one "To Fanny": "Ah! dearest love, sweet home of all my fears, And hopes, and joys, and panting miseries, Tonight, if I may guess, thy beauty wears A smile of such delight, as brilliant and as bright, As when with ravished, aching, vassal eyes, Lost in a soft amaze, I gaze, I gaze!"I couldn't really do him justice with this review. I encourage you to check out John Keats!
1558244718	Best read alongside Rollins's edition of The Letters of John Keats: Volume 2, 1819 1821: 1814 1821.In 1819 Keats wrote to his brother George: "My name with the literary fashionables is vulgar-I am a weaver boy to them..."And actually, it's not a bad comparison. Keats's work was famously unpopular amongst his contemporaries. His publication of Endymion was met with scorn; and even now it doesn't read much better-self-indulgent, immature. But in Keats's later poems, such as 'Ode to Psyche,' and 'Ode to a Nightingale,' one can imagine him weaving words in a literal, physical sense; he was a worker, he worked immensely hard, and his determination to keep writing in spite of criticisms, poverty, and his steadily worsening health, endeared him to me all the more--though his sometimes bitter, pessimistic attitude towards women can't be denied.It's such a shame he died at 25. In 'Spenser! a jealous honorer of thine,' Keats himself refers to his incomplete development as a poet, and I think these lines apply fittingly to human nature, and our sometimes impatient, incomplete development as people: "It is impossible to escape from toil O' the sudden and receive thy spiriting: The flower must drink the nature of the soil Before it can put forth its blossoming." My friend Anthony shared with me a wonderful comic-book adaptation done by Julian Peters, which I'm glad to share again: http://julianpeterscomics.com/la-bell...
4301412494	I generally admire the Romantics. Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Byron all have their merits. Percy Bysshe Shelley holds a high place of esteem among my all-time favorite poets of any era. Looking back into the 18th century, I adore Goethe and bear a grudging appreciation for the mad (if somewhat repetitive and incoherent) genius of William Blake. But just about every fault people tend to find in Romantic poetry can be observed in the work of John Keats. Overwrought, melodramatic to the point of absurdity, positively *obsessed* with direct or indirect Greco-Roman allusions, and full of unnecessary "thees" and "thous" in a desperate attempt to emulate the Shakespeares and Miltons the Romantics so deeply and transparently admired: https://bookhaven.stanford.edu/2016/0... There are a few hidden gems, of course. Keats is-- rightfully, in my view-- renowned for his series of Odes, the most famous of which ("Ode on a Grecian Urn") has earned a place within the literary canon and is taught in grade school curricula all around the English-speaking world and beyond. There are even some darker pieces, such as "Isabella or the Pot of Basil" or "The Eve of St. Agnes," which belong more to the Gothic sub-classification of Romanticism. Still, what can be powerful and poignant in a few stanzas quickly turns to tedium over the length of multiple cantos (ex: Endymion, Lamia, Hyperion). Ultimately, Keats's unbridled passion and feverish, florid professions of undying love left me rather cold... and genuinely annoyed enough to write a review about the experience.
2903650	Of course, Keats is one the most recognized of English poets, but he will always haunt, linger, and sleep in the more silkenly sorrowful oubliettes of my heart. The melancholy, somber tone of his voice confined and steadied by formal elegance never fails to produce a pensive, maudlin gaze bent toward a consideration or disquisition of rest, of a time when one can breathe fully, with winnowing ease, as each suspiration unloads a weight or an onus regardless of how many times vapor slips past the lips. The more one respires in this rest, the less one is burdened. This is the peace. His flaws are apparent, and are parent to the more satisfying mien of his poetry. His obsession with the mythical as allegory for his life and others can become pedantic and obsessive. His singular tone can be overmuch for some. He also has a smaller volume of work due to a death at a young age and does not have insight into some features of mid or later life. This edition is not the one I read, however the poetry sings for itself regardless of its editor, critic, or reviewer.
62017042	John Keats is one of the finest poets who has ever lived, and he died at 25, and this praise comes from one who is not much of a fan of poetry in general. Not much else can be said other than everyone should sample his work (poems and letters)if they wish to be moved or inspired as no other could.
533497435	There is a reason great poets are considered great--all their best poems are in the "selected" variety of book. I have learned my lesson--don't ruin your love for a poet by reading ALL his works. I still like Keats, but not as much.
426658833	Of the Romantic poets, Keats is by far my favorite. I don't know if it was the tragedy of his brief life or the simple way he put being into words, but every time I read his poetry, my pulse slows and the world stands still.
645147833	Keats has some great lines but comes across all too often like a horny teenage boy. He reminds me of the first Violent Femmes album — but I like the Violent Femmes more.
2245621469	A very good collection of poems which emit romanticism as it moves... wonderful!
1134809759	Delicate yet mesmerising.
3368640758	To me nothing is more ecstatic than a journey to the deepest cave of human minds.That is why keats is by far my favourite poet of English literature because of his word-painting skills,way of exploring the untrodden regions of psyche,romanticism,skills of personifying the nature,sensuousness,sense impressions using epithets and accepting life as a whole.The book is consisted of his finest literary achievements including Ode To Nightingale,Ode On a Grecian Urn,Ode To Melancholy,Ode To Psyche,Odes of Hyperion,La Belle Dam sans Merci,The Eve Of Saint Agnes and what not.Many critics think he is an epucurian,feasting only on the beauties of life.Some find him as an escapist who sought solace by distracting himself from reality.After reading, "When old age shall this generation waste Thou shall remain in midst of other woe Than ours,a friend to man,to whom thou say'st "Beauty is truth,truth beauty,that is all Ye know On earth,all ye need to know."it might seem rational to you as he longed for replacing the bitterness through imagery.The same reverberation goes for 'Ode To Nightingale' "Thou was not born for death,immortal bird."Keats would die,the particular nightingale would die but the song of the nightingale,the beauty that the song represents would continue for ever.As a devotee of Spenserian stanza,when Keats was introduced to extravagance with classical restraints it surely made his works worthwhile.He unwrapped a new concept of joy. "Shall I ever bid these joys farewell? Yes,I must bid these joys farewell I must pass them for a nobler life I must find the agonies and strife of human hearts."Are those words of an escapist?This book surely provides the answer.Personal recommendation 9/10.
3344902971	It has been some time that I have read poetry, I always have a tendency on reading novels which a good story. But Since fall has arrived I looked at my humble home library, searching through books for something new, I found this precious poems book by John Keats. I got caught up in the linguistic brilliance and romantic powerful words Keats wrote. He died very young and couldn't exploit a brilliance future with his words. He also was afraid of being forgotten, his words never read. I can tell lots of keats poems touched my heart, some became my favorite ones like "Bright star! would I were steadfast as thou art" and "ode to a nightingale" However, "When I have fears that I may cease to be" is the one that showed me how his words have a delicacy.“When I have fears that I may cease to be”When I have fears that I may cease to beBefore my pen has glean’d my teeming brain,Before high-piled books, in charactery,Hold like rich garners the full ripen’d grain;When I behold, upon the night’s starr’d face,Huge cloudy symbols of a high romance,And think that I may never live to traceTheir shadows, with the magic hand of chance;And when I feel, fair creature of an hour,That I shall never look upon thee more,Never have relish in the faery powerOf unreflecting love;–then on the shoreOf the wide world I stand alone, and thinkTill love and fame to nothingness do sink. All his fears of being forgotten once he dies, his words would disappear. As he expresses all his fears, you can feel the emotions, it's almost palpable. After 200 years he is being discovered and his words is read and his voice is heard. he couldn't live his fame or imagine that he would become immortal.
2532051750	This collection, which contains all of Keats' poetry, including his posthumously-published work, spans the sublime, the painfully sentimental, and everything in-between. Keats' best work - the Odes, "La Belle Dame sans Merci", and a handful of sonnets - is unquestionably brilliant; nonetheless, some of his lesser-known work is of significantly inferior quality. This, I think, is to be expected from a collection of this nature; I am particularly struck by how prolific he managed to be during his short life, and if the process of honing his craft through a few notebooks' worth of mediocre, angst-ridden poetry eventually yields "Ode to Autumn" and "Ode to a Nightingale", I'm certainly not complaining. His keen aesthetic sensibilities, intensity of feeling, and ability to transmute his love of beauty into lines so exquisite that you'll find yourself stopping to read them over and over again, collectively make for a wonderful reading experience.Of the work in this collection that was new to me, I particularly enjoyed "The Eve of St. Agnes" and "Isabella or the Pot of Basil", and found "Lamia" middling. "Endymion", in my opinion, belongs in the "painfully sentimental" category of Keats' ouevre; getting through it was rather a slog.Thus, while I'm glad to have read this collection, I'd probably recommend that all but the most fanatical Keats lovers instead pick up one that selects only his best work. That's certainly what I'll do when next I feel compelled to return to Keats' poetry.
7515420069	Unleash the Beauty of Emotion and Nature with John Keats' Complete Poems!Step into the enchanting world of one of the greatest Romantic poets, John Keats, whose words resonate with the timeless beauty of love, nature, and the human experience. "The Complete Poems" is a breathtaking collection that invites you to explore the depths of passion and the ephemeral nature of life through Keats' masterful verses.From the lush imagery of Ode to a Nightingale to the haunting reflections in La Belle Dame sans Merci, this anthology captures the essence of Keats' artistic genius. Each poem is a window into his soul, revealing his profound connection to the natural world and the complexities of human emotion. Themes of beauty, mortality, and the quest for truth weave through his work, creating a tapestry of lyrical brilliance that will leave you spellbound.Whether you are a longtime admirer of Keats or discovering his poetry for the first time, this hardcover edition offers a comprehensive glimpse into his life’s work, complete with insightful commentary and historical context. The elegant design makes it a perfect addition to any bookshelf or a thoughtful gift for poetry lovers.Don’t miss your chance to experience the magic of John Keats Complete Poems. Open the pages and let his words transport you to a realm where beauty reigns supreme and every emotion is exquisitely captured. Grab your copy today and immerse yourself in the lyrical legacy of one of literature's most beloved poets!
4777184125	Collections like these are where Penguin Classics are at their best. Included are John Keats entire poetic oeuvre, copious explanatory notes, several helpful appendices, and even a glossary of Classical names. (Greek and Roman mythology) We don’t get much of an introduction, but honestly this decision was probably done to avoid any significant editorializing. We never really hear any of editor John Bernard’s opinions about Keats, rather in that place we get a few explanatory lines of views from critical stalwarts like Harold Bloom. I like a nice long introduction, but I understand this approach as well. Reading all the poems, a picture of Keats starts to appear: unsure of himself, ironic, apparently self-effacing in the poetry (But how ironic is he being), a natural-world and classical obsessive (Not unique among the British Romantics, but Keats seems to be among the most classically inclined) and, of course, a lover / lover of beauty. Many of his poems are unfinished, and consequently have the appearance of fragments. Not a problem for me, I appreciate the enigmatic nature of fragments. Keats’ best complete poem is “Lamia”, a menacing Gothic which plays with one’s sympathies in an engaging way.
8044127505	Picture this: we form an exclusive, slightly mysterious, part book club, part tea séance. The book club is dedicated entirely to every single poem John Keats ever dared to write.We gather in mismatched velvet chairs, surrounded by the scent of wood. Every session begins with someone reading “Ode to a Nightingale”. Midway through, we sip our tea (mint, obviously) and debate whether Keats was simply in love with beauty or in a codependent relationship with melancholy.Then, I rise dramatically, deliver a closing speech that sounds part graduation ceremony, part séance campaign, and give each member a microscopic trinket (think: a glittering fake laurel, or a single pearl that represents the tear he never shed).We close the evening with a collective sway to Frank Sinatra’s “My Way of Life” while clutching our tea cups. As the last note fades, we disappear into the night.I’m already taking applications, so if you want to be a part of the club, just type the secret word: “melancholia.” Once you do, you’ll hear faint music and smell tea leaves burning. That’s how you’ll know you’re in.
5529083894	The beautiful collection of poems by Emily Dickinson called "The Complete Poems" is sure to make readers remember her for a long time. All of Dickinson's recognisable poems are included in this extensive collection, which is organised chronologically based on the date of each poem's first publication. Dickinson was a prolific writer.Dickinson's poetry is distinguished by its brevity, sophisticated linguistic use, and distinct perspective on life, love, and death. She explores the complexities of the human experience in her poetry, which are frequently introspective. Modernist poetry was made possible by Dickinson's innovative work, which was revolutionary for its day.The "The Complete Poems" hardback edition is a great addition to any bookcase because to its lovely and sophisticated appearance. Both Dickinson lovers and others who are unfamiliar with her poetry but wish to learn more about this important poet's genius should pick up this book.All things considered, "The Complete Poems" is a must-read for anybody with an interest in American literature, poetry, or the human condition. It is an ageless classic that will enthral and inspire readers for many years to come.
3577255609	John Keats to me is a true romantic and while some of he`s poetry might be idealistic when it comes to love. But there is some sense of innocence to he`s love poetry. He is one of my favorite love poets too me he gives a good glimpse of what being in love is like for many people and love is something we all experience You Say You LoveIYou say you love ; but with a voiceChaster than a nun's, who singethThe soft Vespers to herselfWhile the chime-bell ringeth-O love me truly!IIYou say you love; but with a smileCold as sunrise in September,As you were Saint Cupid 's nun,And kept his weeks of Ember.O love me truly!IIIYou say you love but then your lipsCoral tinted teach no blisses,More than coral in the seaThey never pout for kissesO love me truly!IVYou say you love ; but then your handNo soft squeeze for squeeze returneth,It is like a statue's deadWhile mine to passion burnethO love me truly!VO breathe a word or two of fire!Smile, as if those words should burn me,Squeeze as lovers should O kissAnd in thy heart inurn me!O love me truly!
