5857034468	In My Dreams I Hold a Knife meets the horsey version of If We Were Villains , minus the plot twists.I'm aware of how that sounds - unnecessary mean -, but I consider Dark Academia a very serious genre that sometimes includes stories far from being worthy of this label.So yes, if you have some comprehensive skills you'll probably figure out the whats and the whos and the whys, but I’ll also tell you this: you'll keep going and won't stop until the very last page, probably all of that in about a couple of days, and it’d become your new obsession.With the horse talk - if that's your thing - or for the tarot world, RKD is gonna drag you into this story with the illusion that, when it'll be over, you'll know the answers you're looking about what do to, what to expect, what's your purpose.But before, as gently as she can, knowing you’re already hooked, like if you’d have a choice, she’ll ask: “Do you really want to know?”.↠ 4.5 starsThanks to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley, who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest opinion.
5735315229	After reading The Ballerinas, and The Ingenue by this author- I was super excited to read this latest release. While I did enjoy this story and the creativity of it, I unfortunately can’t say that I enjoyed it as much as the other two previous books. I felt that this book was rather “wordy”, and it seemed to be much lengthier than it should have been. This story centers around Rosie Macalister. Rosie is a middle class student at Yale, who is definitely considered poor next to her roommates and “best friend” Cressida (Cress) Tate. While Rosie is accepted, and they all ride horses together- Rosie never expects to have another friend join their group- and be a better rider? The new friend to the group is Annelise. Annelise is a tarot card reader and loves to read cards for her friends and at parties. Rosie and Annelise become close, as they they share a room together and are often snubbed by their fellow roommates. Things start to get complicated and out of control among the group, and Rosie tries to make things right- even after they have moved on from college. While this book was interesting and had some good moments, I just felt like it dragged on too long in some parts. I will say that the most redeeming quality of this book was that each chapter had the title of a Tarot Card and its full description, which I thought was absolutely awesome! (3.5 stars, rounded up). Many thanks to Goodreads and St. Martin’s Press for my advanced copy of this book, which I had the pleasure of reading. Publication date: February 13, 2024.
5762334275	Fortune Seller lures you in with a summary that promises mystery and social commentary, but it ends up letting you down in both respects. Rosie Macalister is a middle-class white girl desperate to escape her financial situation. At Yale, she tries to fit in with her filthy rich friends but can't quite play the part of a socialite. When a new girl with a mysterious background infiltrates the friend group senior year, the other girls love and mistrust her in equal turns. 2 stars for the narrator. She did a fantastic job of bringing to life the characters and making it an engaging read, despite the lackluster content she had to work with.I struggle to have empathy for a pretty, middle-class white chick who got into Yale and constantly calls herself poor despite having a home, food, clothes, and shoes. Rosie's able to afford horseback gear, even though she complains about having to save up for it. While I understand her want for financial security, she doesn't see that she already has that. She is unable to be grateful. I was expecting more discussion around the widening gap between the middle class and the wealthy, but it was touched on in such a shallow way. Rosie's worldview is so limited. Sure, you see what you see because you are where you are. But to call yourself poor and victimize yourself when there are people across the globe who die from lack of food and unclean water, is laughable. Sorry you can't afford designer clothes, but most of the world can't. Also, how are you going to discuss wealth and not even acknowledge the role race and ethnicity have to play? Not one person of color or a truly poor background is introduced to balance Rosie's worldview. Rosie's solution to financial woes is just as awful as her attitude. She has the idea that because she got into Yale she deserves to be rich. That a degree will automatically equal wealth. Those who are self-made usually worked their butts off to get there. Rosie sends off some half-hearted emails for a job and calls it a day.The "mystery" was bland and predictable. I'm not usually disappointed when I figure out a plot twist before it happens, but I guessed the whole thing a few chapters in. It wouldn't be so noticeable if the commentary had been able to pull its weight.I don't recommend this one. There are much better mysteries and books that dissect wealth from multiple perspectives. Thank you to NetGalley Macmillan Audio for the advance audio! All thoughts and opinions expressed are my own.
5735658631	This book was all over my Goodreads feed so I decided to give it a go! For me it was a 3.5 star and I rounded up. The story was good and the characters were good. I feel like it could have easily been two books and the stories extended with more twists and shocking reveals. It’s not a book that I am likely to recommend to many people.
6233744969	When Rosie Macalister returns to Yale and her spot on the equestrian team after a year away, she finds out she is rooming with Annelise Tattinger, who turns out to be a very talented rider who reads tarot cards for the other girls in her spare time. Rosie has fought very hard for her place in the team's inner circle, which is no easy feat since she is from a middle-class background. At first, she is resentful of the idea of having a roommate, but she soon becomes friends with Annelise and realizes there is a lot more going on than meets the eye.This is a very realistic look at class differences and how the upper elite class treats everyone else. The attitude that the rules don't apply to the rich comes across very strongly. There were some hidden secrets that I didn't see coming, and the characterization of the very rich and entitled Cressida is well done. The old cliche that money doesn't buy happiness rings very true in this book, but would be better defined as "too much money doesn't buy happiness." While some of the characters use their trust funds to sink deeper into despair, others just want enough money to fulfill their dreams. Each chapter was headed with the description of a tarot card, which was not my cup of tea at all. But the relationships and class differences and the way this affected the characters made this book shine. Honest, sobering, sad, and heartbreaking, this book shines a light on the elite class and on struggling to belong in a world that is only set up for a few to succeed. I received a free copy of this book from St. Martin's Press. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.
6262622525	I was such a big fan of her first book, The Ballerinas, was pretty disappointed in her follow up, The Ingenue, and The Fortune Seller lands somewhere in the middle. I like learning about new things when I read, but there was too much in this novel. Tarot cards and their meanings, details about how to read them were in there, which I enjoyed, but we were also explained at length about equestrians, and horses, and competing. At the end of the day, it ended up being too much.I liked the story and the characters, though the big twist was pretty easy to figure out. The second half of the book I felt was better than the first. 3.75 stars rounded up
6438915518	3.75 ⭐️ rounded up!The perfect way to describe this book is Mean Girls if they were on the Yale equestrian team. I really felt for Annelise’s character and what she was going through. There are some shocking moments throughout, but where this book shines is the human nature behind the relationships- specifically between females. I also loved how the tarot cards were at the beginning of each new chapter. This is a solid read, but it won’t be for everybody. The Ballerinas is also still my favorite book by this author, but I enjoyed this one!
6246290305	Set in the early 2000s, The Fortune Seller takes us to Yale, where middle-class Rosie Macalister lives with her much wealthier friends. As members of the Yale equestrian team, Rosie and her friends are a tight-knit group, so Rosie is surprised to return from a year abroad to find a new girl sharing her room. Annelise, with her talent for reading tarot cards and phenomenal riding skills, is unlike anyone Rosie has ever met. It isn't long before Rosie and Annelise become close. But amongst their larger group of friends, shifting alliances, secrets, and betrayals are creating unbearable tension -- with devastating, irreversible consequences.In The Fortune Seller, Rachel Kapelke-Dale delves into issues surrounding class, wealth and privilege, ambition, and the complexities of female friendships. Kapelke-Dale's writing is nuanced and sinuous as she explores the co-dependent and sometimes destructive nature of early adult relationships, and I think she perfectly captured the feelings of her characters, with all their presumed invincibility and desperation. There's lots of interesting commentary about fate and destiny and the role that luck plays in one's good fortune or circumstances. Each chapter begins with the description of a tarot card that serves as foreshadowing for events to come, and I thought that was such a brilliant way to add texture to the narrative. I do think, however, that some of Kapelke-Dale's observations, specifically surrounding the power that comes with wealth in the later half of the book, were a bit too on the nose. Her characters are for the most part well-developed, but they all fall solidly into either a "good person" or "bad person" category, which makes them less interesting than they could have been. Rosie herself is frustrating because she is the type of character that just lets things happen to her, rather than going out and making things happen. Who gets into Yale and, hoping to eventually work for an investment firm, fails to secure a single internship before her senior year? That, to me, seems like a form of the entitlement that Rosie herself rails against in her friends. Rosie grew up quite privileged herself, which is something she barely acknowledges as she strives for more and better, which only added to my frustration with her character. I would have liked more atmosphere outside of the characters' immediate world -- a stronger sense of place with the equestrian competitions, some context about life on Yale's campus. The book is also oddly-plotted, with a major event happening at the 50% mark before the narrative slows way, way down. And I appreciate the twists that the narrative took, but I definitely predicted them well before and spent most of the second half of the book just waiting for Rosie to catch up. I listened to The Fortune Seller as an audiobook read by Stephanie Cannon, whose voice has a mesmerizing quality that kept me engaged even through the slower parts of the narrative. I always look forward to new release by Rachel Kapelke-Dale, whose plots and prose have reminded me for three books now of Megan Abbott (and I can't really pay a higher compliment than that). The Fortune Seller wasn't my favorite of her novels, but I still can't wait for the next one.
6218063731	"I don't believe in a fate that will fall on us no matter what we do. I do believe in a fate that will fall on us if we do nothing." -- Ronald ReaganWith all its whimsical vibe around tarot, I am surely hitched to the plot, elements and mystery. I never thought a thriller could make such a wonderful impression on a fantasy lover like me - but the magic worked!The storyline follows our protagonist(Rosie) working hard to fit in with her rich besties at Yale, but the following year a new Girl (Annelise) enters their circle and Rosie is both gravitated and unhinged by Annelie's mysterious life. With changing dynamics in the group and the dirty powerplay of money in their world, the bonds are getting strenuously closer to a cliff. Post their graduation, life takes a flipping turn for them all and hidden secrets are only going to bring a devastating turn that may forever haunt them.The role money plays in society and to what levels humans stoop around it is discussed brilliantly through the characters. The frienemy vibe, dipped with a coming-of-age girl drama intertwines well into a story that is narrated from the backfront of a tarot reader. Plus the narrator did a solid job with all the elite accents.Thank you @macmillan.audio and @rachelkapelkedale for the Audio ARC.Genre: #contemporary #fiction Rating: 4.5/5 star P.S: The book has also pushed me to do a little to research the interpretation of these cards 🃏
6149934018	Such a tragic and terrible tale. I hated the premise of it but it was written well and kept me interested, that’s for sure. I just hated that it felt like the rich folks still got everything they wanted and not enough people had to answer for the death that they caused. 🌀SynopsisRosie is just trying to fit into a rich kid’s world. As a student at Yale she falls in with a group of girls that have no money issues, like she does. Except, that is, for Annelise. It takes awhile for the truth to come out but she finds out that Annelise is also trying to make her own money to get through school. The house is full of drama and it all comes to a roaring head when hazing goes wrong and causes the death of a roommate. Rosie is devastated and withdraws from all activity just trying to get by. When she graduates she takes a job in the city with a friend’s dad. When she finds out he’s been doing shady things under his foundation, she calls him on it and he commits suicide that same day. Their world is forever changed.Rosie decides to change her path and go back to school, this time to be a vet. She’s been through terrible things but, in the end, she’s truly happy with where she ended up.
6066794332	This book just didn't do it for me. I saw a review on Goodreads that said, "Fortune Seller lures you in with a summary that promises mystery and social commentary, but it ends up letting you down in both respects." And that sums it up perfectly.The description of this book made it sound incredibly intriguing, but the follow-through was weak. The book was.... eh. I hate to say "not good" because that just sounds so rude, and I never want to insult an author who worked hard on a book and then put it out in the world for others to judge.Unfortunately, though, (in my opinion) this book just WASN'T good. The characters were unrelatable and - at times - totally unbelievable. And the book's outcome was just.... unrealistic in the extreme. There are deaths and murders with no investigations and no consequences, and the attitude of some of the central characters are just really ridiculous.In truth, the book reads like it was written by a 17-year-old mean girl. It seems as though the author has had no real life experiences yet beyond what she's learned from her private school life. (Note: I'm not saying that is accurate at all. I know nothing about this author. That's just how the book reads.)So yeah, as much as I hate to give any book a bad rating (for the author's sake), this one just wasn't for me. The narrator was excellent, though. She is easily worth the two stars I gave the book. She needs to narrate more things.
5665420911	I knew going into The Fortune Seller how well Rachel Kapelke Dale writes complicated female relationships and that’s on full display here. I loved her previous novels The Ballerinas and The Ingenue so my expectations were high. This novel starts in 2005 with Rosie and her friends who are on the Yale Equestrian team. After being abroad for her junior year, Rosie is excited to reunite with her friends only to learn that a new girl named Annelise has joined their clique and will be her roommate. Annelise is an excellent equestrian rider who appears to have many talents and one of them is her tarot card reading. Although Rosie finds herself charmed by Annelise, something seems off. All of the girls are keeping secrets and after a series of events, they start to turn on one another and there are tragic consequences. We then follow Rosie after graduation when she starts working for a hedge fund company. Events from the past continue to haunt her as she searches for answers. I loved the dark academia feel to the story and the writing is as beautiful as I expected it would be. The tarot card interpretation and foreshadowing at the start of each chapter was a brilliant touch. Thank you to St. Martin’s Press, NetGalley, and the author for an advance digital copy of The Fortune Seller. It exceeded my high expectations! Pub date: February 13, 2024Pages: 320
5766948054	Rosie Macalister does her best to fit in with the elite at Yale. She is part of the equestrian team and lives with her best, incredibly wealthy friends. When she returns from a year abroad however, a newcomer has joined the group and she is unsure what to think. Annelise Tattinger, is mysterious, athletic and a tarot card reader. She quickly moves up in the equestrian team but disappears frequently to travel to New York City.What are her secrets? What is her plan? As Rosie becomes close to her, she realizes all is not what it seems. Mostly a story about the elite playing students at Yale and workers in New York, this novel is more coming of age than thriller. Rosie is a character you are not soon to forget, especially if you too, have tired sometimes to pass. If you love stories about wealthy friends, family secrets and coming of age you will love The Fortune Seller!#StMartinsPress #StMartins #TheFortuneSeller #RachelKapelkeDale
6193488470	Set in the heady days of the early aughts, The Fortune Seller is a haunting examination of class, ambition, and the desires that shape our lives.Thank you Macmillan Audio & Netgalley for sending me a review copy of this book in exchange for an honest review! I was reading this book and I decided to DNF it at 60%. I liked the Equestrian theme of this book and I liked that this book has Tarot in it. I didn’t like any of the characters. I found them annoying. The only character I liked was Annelise. I thought she was really interesting and I liked her friendship with the main character Rosie. I feel like I would have enjoyed this book more if it had focused more on Annelise and if it had more horseback riding and competing in shows. It has a little bit of horseback riding and it mentions 1 horse show but it doesn’t have much of an Equestrian theme in the first half of the book. I feel like it focused too much on the drama between the other girls and I didn’t like that.
6233741992	When Rosie Macalister returns to Yale and her spot on the equestrian team after a year away, she finds out she is rooming with Annelise Tattinger, who turns out to be a very talented rider who reads tarot cards for the other girls in her spare time. Rosie has fought very hard for her place in the team's inner circle, which is no easy feat since she is from a middle-class background. At first, she is resentful of the idea of having a roommate, but she soon becomes friends with Annelise and realizes there is a lot more going on than meets the eye.This is a very realistic look at class differences and how the upper elite class treats everyone else. The attitude that the rules don't apply to the rich comes across very strongly. There were some hidden secrets that I didn't see coming, and the characterization of the very rich and entitled Cressida is well done. The old cliche that money doesn't buy happiness rings very true in this book, but would be better defined as "too much money doesn't buy happiness." While some of the characters use their trust funds to sink deeper into despair, others just want enough money to fulfill their dreams. Each chapter was headed with the description of a tarot card, which was not my cup of tea at all. But the relationships and class differences and the way this affected the characters made this book shine. Honest, sobering, sad, and heartbreaking, this book shines a light on the elite class and on struggling to belong in a world that is only set up for a few to succeed. The audiobook, read by Stephanie Cannon, is well done and completely captures the personalities of each character.I received a free copy of this audiobook from Macmillan Audio. My review is voluntary and the opinions expressed are my own.
6231806302	First off, many thanks to NetGalley for letting me read this book as an audio ARC! I greatly appreciate it!I don't like giving one-star reviews, especially to books that haven't even come out yet, but man. This was not good. The writing was lovely, and that makes it even worse, because then you know the author is capable of writing well. But the characters! And the plot! On the characters: Our main girl (I literally had to check the description because I forgot her name, apparently it's Rosie, though I may have just forgotten because first-person POV), spends the whole story complaining about being poor even though she has a fancy place to live and nice clothes. Yes, she has to save up for expensive things, but so does everyone else. Suck it up, princess. Then there's Annelise, who's kinda fun, but really just a generic modern hippie. I did like her, though despite the mystery of who she is, we never learn much about her outside of that. Cressida was interesting, at least. Horrible, but interesting. The plot is the worst part. Nearly three-quarters through the book, this goes from being a really interesting story about a girl who's obviously into this weird, mystical girl to being about a girl who has a thing with a guy she met one time before because he has a cute puppy? It feels like the author got sick of the original story and decided to write a new one instead of finishing the first one. I've never been this disappointed and frustrated by the direction a book took. Shaking my head, man.
5842967256	"before you ask your question, you have to do it. You have to ask yourself.Do you really want to know?"This is a slow burn - more like an dark academia than a thrilling mystery. Once I adjusted my thinking, stopped looking for a fast-paced thriller, I liked this a lot more. My favorite part was the beginning little paragraphs and all the tarot card reading and information woven into the story. It was such a fun addition, and one I really loved. The girls were a bit frustrating - I'm not a horse person so I missed some of the connection to their love and drive. But I did find the connections and Rosie's tenuous hold on their friendships fascinating. It was an interesting read, one that held my attention, but make sure you go in knowing it has a bit of slow burn story and a great ending.A huge thank you to the author and publisher for providing an e-ARC via Netgalley. This does not affect my opinion regarding the book.
5657087454	Heavier than “women’s fiction” but still a page turner. Regular kid among the rich at Yale but with a fresh paranormal twist. Brings the old trope into the 21st-century.
5762608508	Competitive horse riding is not for the meek, nor the poor, as we learn all to well in Rachel Kapelke-Dale’s novel, “The Fortune Seller,” based upon a fictional account of a Yale University female student Equestrian team.Initially composed of just four undergraduate coeds, when the only student loan/scholarship funded member of the group, Rosie, returns from a semester abroad in Argentina, she finds to her surprise a fifth teammate, Annelise, who’s also designated as her new roommate.Surprisingly, new girl Annelise, is an exceptionally fine horsewoman—now possibly the most skilled on their team—even more so than Cressida, the beautiful, talented and rich daughter of Grayson Tate, legendary equestrian champion, charity fund manager, and financial Hedge Fund darling of Wall Street.However, mystery surrounds Annelise. She’s secretive about herself, her family pedigree, and her equestrian skills and training. Her wardrobe is smattered with quality designer touches like Stella McCartney Baby dolls, Prada purses, and Hermes scarves; but all have the well-established aesthetic look and appeal of being classics of a ‘certain age’—perhaps vintage resale buys?Annelise also has another unique bohemian eclecticism that sets her apart from the traditional preppy norm of her Yale Equestrian teammates. Annelise is a Tarot reader extraordinaire! Intuitively interpreting the Major and Minor Tarot Cards drawn by those individuals seeking advice.All is copacetic among the Yale housemates/teammates until Cressida realizes that her bank account is being drained repeatedly for thousands of dollars, and someone in the house is check-kiting.Tensions mount, fingers point, and accusations fly nonstop. The esprit d’corps, sisterhood, friendship, trust, and ‘love’ once felt, cherished and taken for granted among the girls shatter irreparably!Then, when a ‘so called’ prank and it’s deadly consequences quickly follows, the repercussions send tectonic plate-shifting vibrations of destructive change into the emotional and personal lives of all. Nothing can ever be the same again. Humpty Humpty Dumpty can’t be put together again, nor can the happy and carefree Yale Female Equestrian Team.JoyReaderGirl1 graciously thanks NetGalley, Author Rachel Kapelke-Dale, Publisher St. Martin’s Press, an imprint of St. Martin’s Press Publishing Group, for this advanced reader’s copy (ARC) for review.
5993626478	The smell of warm hay filled the barn as she walked through and peeked into each stall, admiring the horses. She would pet their velvety noses, allowing them to nuzzle her hand, wishing she could ride them. But she wasn’t like the girls who could proudly ride these beasts, parade them around in glory, show them off. She’d never be like those girls, but she dreamed of it.The Fortune Seller is a thriller following Rosie as she navigates her senior year of college. A new girl has entered her circle of friends, a mysterious girl who draws Rosie in with her knowledge of tarot and mutual love of horses, but things fall apart as the school year progresses.Told in two parts, this book navigates the complexities of friendships and how someone will do anything just to fit in and get the lifestyle they wish they could have. A literary-style thriller with a lot of talk about tarot and horses (the girls were equestrians), and mysterious behavior within the friend group. Rachel’s writing is captivating and while I did figure out the big twist way before it was revealed, I was intrigued by the dark drama going on.I recommend this for fans of friendship drama, the dark undersides of school/business, horses, and tarot.CW: Murder, Death of a Loved One, Blackmail, Toxic Relationships, Infidelity, Bullying/Hazing, Classism.
6287736069	Fortune Seller is focused on a group of girls attending Yale — all on the equestrian team. The girls are very wealthy with the exception of the main character, Rosie, who is middle class. (Note: despite being middle class, Rosie carries on throughout the book as if she’s poverty-stricken.) The last member to join the group is mysterious horse girl/tarot expert Annelise. The story has two main themes: horses and tarot — an odd combination, to state the obvious. The underlying theme is the rich vs poor dynamic, which exists primarily in Rosie’s head.This book is very horse-y from the start. The horsiness is easier to digest as the book progresses. Tarot is used primarily as a vehicle to move the story along. Though the author is set up to fail with this disjointed jumble of themes, she somehow makes it work…but it takes a while before things start to flow. I began to enjoy it about 1/3 of the way in. Still not quite sure if this is adult or YA…it’s somewhere in the middle I guess? If you’re a horse girl, this one’s for you. If not, it’s still worth the read so long as you can get through the very horse-forward beginning. 3.6 stars rounded up to 4. Thank you NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for the ARC.
6333288056	A little slow but the last 100 pages are so good!!!
6260696512	A story of secrets, murder, betrayal, money, and entitlement, each one of the five girls sharing an apartment, going to Yale, and being on the Equestrian team, they each had their dreams, their own goals, and after their senior year, one of them will have blood on her hands.With friendships that are as fickle as the stock market, these five young women have more ups and downs than I could count, and yet somehow they all ended up where they were meant to, even if it's not where they planned on being. Since I had the opportunity to listen to the audiobook let's talk about our narrator Stephanie Cannon for a moment, she has brilliant tone and inflection and was able to give distinct voices to all of our characters and managed to show their growth as the story went on. She truly is talented in her craft. While I'm not sure if it's intentional or not, the level of entitlement of some of these characters was beyond anything I've read and I'm still reeling from our billionaire shoplifter, if you're looking for a young adult book that puts wealth and what it actually into perspective this is the book for you. This is a 3.5-star book for me, I'll be rounding up to a four for review purposes. Thank you to Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for providing a copy of this audiobook, I have voluntarily listened to it and all thoughts and opinions are my own.
5735771047	Sometimes you find a writer who just speaks to you. Someone whose words just fill you up and wiggle their way into your soul. I found that with Rachel Kapelke-Dale. I knew it from the minute I finished The Ballerinas, and I felt it every second I spent reading The Fortune Seller. The Fortune Seller is about Yale student Rosie. Rosie comes from a modest background. Her parents are vets in a town she describes as beige, and money has always been tight. Luckily through a grant from The Grayson Tate foundation, Rosie learned to ride, and was able to use those skills to make the equestrian team at Yale. From there, she becomes best friends with three wealthy girls, one who is actually Tate’s daughter, Cressida. After spending a year abroad in Argentina, Rosie returns to Yale to move into the house her three friends have leased for their senior year. Only there is one more roommate—Annelise, who Rosie becomes friends with despite her eccentricities. One of which is that she reads tarot. I thought I knew where this book was going, and then suddenly I didn’t. “So no, I’m not the hero of this story. There was no hero. But that, too, was what I was finding out. In real life, stories don’t actually have heroes. All they have are people.That’s all we get.”This book was beautiful and haunting and such an interesting meditation on becoming who you want to be versus what you think you should be, and life and what you deserve and I just loved every single second of it.
6220311016	Thanks to Macmillan Audio and NetGalley for the advanced audio copy. The Yale Equestrian team brings 4 girls together as friends, teammates and roommates. College especially at Yale is a time where everyone wants to fit in but not everyone grew up with the same things or comforts especially like Cressida Tate. Then Cress discovers Annelise and how well she rides and will help their Yale team and invites her to move in with them and to room with Rosie without even asking her. Rosie is very hesitant to accept someone new until she meets her and they hit it off. The mysterious Annelise reads Tarot Cards and teaches Rosie about it. There are times when the story gets slow but as Rosie starts to discover some things about Annelise everything changes and splits the girls apart as they graduate. As typical of that age they and especially Rosie is searching for her passion and her place in the world thinking most often with misguided ideals and the tarot cards become a source to help her figure out what that is. If you find it slow or you aren't sure where it is going, stick with it to see what happens and the lessons that are learned and you will be glad you did! 3.5 stars rounded up to 3#TheFortuneSeller #NetGalley @Susanna's Bookshelf
6124906673	Title: The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-DalePublication Date- 2/13/2024Publisher- Macmillan Audio Overall Rating- see below Review: Review copy given to me by the publisher in exchange for an honest review. I am excited to bring you all a review of The Fortune Seller. Before we get started I just wanted to own that I did not finish reading this book at 25 percent in. Let me explain. This is just a simple case of “reader know thyself first.” Instead of giving this book a negative review, I am going to tell you who this book IS for. I believe the description of the book is rock solid. It sets you up well. This is a coming of age story, about class, growing up, female friendships, destiny, and wealth. The one critique I have of the synopsis is it states that it is a story that is in the back drop of “two mysterious deaths.” Now remember, I stopped reading at 25 percent in. However, to that point no one had died and there was no indication that anyone would. Which in the end could be intriguing. I think this would have worked better for me if there was a dual timeline or some indication that a darker plot was coming. The feeling I got from the synopsis was that this would be a darker story. And it may be after the point that I stopped. However, there wasn’t enough in it for me to keep going. I think you could like this if you like stories about young female friendships, envy, and in some ways it is an dark academia. I will say that it is an academic setting but there wasn’t anything dark yet…. I feel like writing a review like this is important. In an age of reviewing we don’t often indicate when a book is “bad,” versus when it just isn’t for you and your interest. This book is not bad, it just isn’t for me and my interest. I had hoped there would be more of a thriller aspect or dark side of friendship. Again, owning that I didn’t make it past 25 percent before I realized this wasn’t for me. There is some uniqueness in The Fortune Seller. There is a group of young riders at Yale’s equestrian program. They are wealthy, jealous and worried about the future. Going into this, I was actually excited to read something different, I’ve never read anything like the way this is set up. However, it wasn’t dark enough for my tastes and the characters felt somewhat flat according to my expectations of what this story would be. If female friendships, coming of age and worry about the future and destiny is your cup of tea you certainly should give this one a try. I hope this review helped set your expectations.
5751017190	The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-Dale is an unusual story, very well-written, with interesting characters, and as in her past books, her storytelling never disappoints. The main character, Rosie, who comes from a modest home and life, is returning for her fourth year at Yale after a year of school abroad and little does she know, her last year at Yale will be one she will never forget.Arriving at her home where she has lived with her friends in the past, Rosie finds out she will have to share a room with a new girl, Annelise, whom she does not know. She finds out Annelise has an exceptional talent which is reading Tarot cards and that becomes an instant fixation. The roommates have unique personalities, money, and are all excellent riders on the Yale equestrian team. Events will unfold that will change all of them forever.I really enjoyed this book and as the story develops individual personalities, devastating events and secrets will keep you from being able to put this book down believe you will enjoy it as well. I give a big thank you to St. Martin’s Press, the author and NetGalley for this ARC.
6374740143	This one was out of my usual realm of reads I think; it had some romance but it was so little I wouldn’t even consider it a subplot, and it was towards the end. However, the story itself was strong enough that it captured my interest and I found myself enjoying the story. It had both a mystery element to it, as well as just “that’s life bud” feel. Rosie attended Yale and was part of the equestrian team. Unlike the other horse girls, she was not rich. She was middle-class and just making it by. But she considered these girls her friends, and they felt like it too. In comes Annelise with her tarot cards, and Rosie begins to feel replaced. That is until she realizes that she actually rather likes Annelise herself too. They become good friends and things seem fine until one of the other girls notices money missing from her account.Fingers start to get pointed and something horrific occurs. Fast forward, and Rosie is working at her friend’s dad’s company and still feeling like she’s part of the group, though they’ve all grown apart in ways. Until she realizes that they really do just see her as “the help” and she’ll never advance beyond that. She begins to uncover truths about Annelise that end up having consequences of their own and dredging up secrets those with money would pay to keep hidden. It’s a good anecdote of showing how high class society is a whole other world to navigate. It honestly seems so cutthroat; I’m very content in my little bubble in the South with my fellow middle class. That work until you drop and maybe just maybe you’ll get somewhere mentality and lifestyle is just not for me. I’m glad that the main character came to the conclusion that she did.Thank you St. Martin’s Press for the gifted copy of the book. I’m definitely glad I had the chance to read it!
6293957268	Do you like horses? Do you like tarot cards? Do you like reading about young women coming of age in the early aughts in New York City, striving to maintain friendships, start careers and compete as equestrian athletes? This book was actually really beautifully written. I was also a 20 something in the early 2000's and I felt such a kinship with these women as they were trying to figure out who they are, but also who they wanted to be. It really drove home the fact we were all just faking it till we made it. The twists in this story are like a ribbon blowing in the breeze, they slowly unravel and fill in the story. I especially loved the tarot readings as each chapter heading. It was such a fun way to get to know Rosie and what she was going through internally. The knowledge of horses was so great (I grew up on a horse ranch) and really gave me a newfound appreciation for the people who work and train with these mammoth creatures.
6258614364	Mix of slow burn, horses, dark academy, and tarot card reading. Enjoyable but missing more depth to characters. I would ah e preferred a shorter time frame and ending was a little too convenient.
6065981460	I really enjoyed this story, with fortune telling and tarot at the forefront, but really, about a girl finding herself through the oftentimes messy turns of career, friendships, and love.
6739299779	Dark academia for horse-girls.
6509616445	a wonderful start to my summer of fun novels!! the character-building in this book is so impressive & i was immersed in the story from start to finish. took a liiittle long to get off the ground, but so worth it once it does.
6813872845	I was so bored :/ to be fair I am not into horses enough to care about the major plot of the book, but I also just didn’t find the story to be all that interesting, sorry!
6518042261	4.5!! What I liked:•Narration & writing style, the author did a wonderful job at this, kudos to her👏🏼•Tarot magic 🔮 I loveddddd the cards & summary at the beginning of each chapter•Some parts were philosophical and made you think 🤔💭What I didn’t like:•Lengthyyy - probably could have been 150 pages shorter 📚•There was no point to the “Part 1” and “Part 2”, prove me wrong •Rosie’s conflicting ethics 🚩
5797070681	The Fortune Seller is a well-crafted story about greed, jealousy and social pecking order in today’s society. It throws together a group of women who live together at Yale, some incredibly rich, while others, barely making ends meet. You definitely can tell these women’s differences not only in the way they dress, but the way they act, to each other. Not only does the story show the struggles of those attempting to move up in the world, but it also lets the reader envision the life of the wealthy and the comparison of what they both consider problems in their lives. But, more importantly it shows what some people, both the rich and the poor will do in order to climb the social and financial ladder, and what happens when they begin to fall off.Rose Macalister has just gotten back to Yale after being away on a year abroad program. She is all smiles because although she has no money, she has been able to save during the past year. But as she enters the apartment she shares with her best friend Cressida Tate, daughter of the uber-wealthy Grayson Tate, and her other roommates, she realizes a year can change everything. She discovers there is a new person in their group, her name is Annelise Tattinger who is on the Equestrian team and seems to ooze money and Rose is now sharing a room with her. She feels replaced.Her best friend Cressida, also on the team, seems armored with her new roommate. Rose is very upset with this because she really wants to get a job working in finance at her father’s company after graduation. Rose’s sole goal is to be able to make money so she can help her parents and she herself and, never have to worry about money again.But as Annelise and Rose’s relationship begins to grow, she begins to see a different side of this roommate. First off, she knows how to read Tarot cards which Rose soon becomes obsessed with and she teaches Rose the ins and outs of being a good reader…ask the real questions, the ones in your heart and you will get the real answers.But Cressida sees Annelise as competition. First because she’s a better rider, but also because she seems to have taken Rose away from her. As the women begin to bicker among themselves, and then an accident occurs and an issue with money and those two problems will change their lives forever.Fast forward to after graduation and Rose is working in the office of Grayson Tate. Not as a financial wizard, but as his assistant. The money is good, but the work not so much. When you are so low on the totem pole you are barely acknowledged. Then Rose discovers something shocking. Unfortunately, those who have all the power can try to ruin the lives of those who have nothing.And that is when Rose not only decides to change her life but acknowledge that her past was not who she really wanted to be. If she could have only foreseen her future. Would she have changed it? Would she have done things differently? More importantly is it too late to make on this road she has been following for so long.What The Fortune Seller shows us is that even though the rich get richer, they too sometimes cannot afford what life throws at them, and for those who are just your ordinary average person trying to make ends meet, their lives can sometimes be so very rich. It doesn’t take cards to predict your future, just the life you lead.Thank you #NetGalley # St.Martin’sPress #TheFortuneSeller #RachelKapeke-Dale for the advanced copy.
6213677347	DNF - There just seemed to be no reason to care about Rosie or Annalise. By 25%, the promised "mystery" about Annalise hasn't appeared!eARC provided by publisher via Edelweiss.
6005009415	The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-Dale explores the complex dynamics of female friendships, the influence of wealth and class, and the desires that shape our lives. The story follows Rosie Macalister, a middle-class student striving to fit into the elite world of the Yale equestrian team. When mysterious tarot reader Annelise Tattinger infiltrates the group, Rosie's newfound confidence is tested, leading to devastating consequences as the friends turn against each other.Kapelke-Dale's character is simply superb. Having read her novel “The Ballerinas” I was happy to see that she yet again created a cast of strong female characters that are incredibly likable and undeniably flawed. The narrative is propelled by smooth pacing, offering a page-turning quality that keeps the reader engaged. The quality of writing is impeccable, with a lovely, immersing readers in a world that feels like a blend of "The Clique" and “Gilmore Girls”, plus the mystique of tarot card readings.The artistry of the story is evident in its themes of class, wealth, and the role of luck in shaping our lives. The emotional impact is poignant, evoking a haunting reflection on relationships, money, and societal status.This book is a perfect fit for hot girls especially those who enjoy character-driven narratives with rich (both figuratively and literally) characters. While the plot occasionally flirted with predictability, the overall engagement and surprises kept me invested. The Fortune Seller is a magical, entertaining drama that doesn't neatly tie up its narrative, leaving readers with a lingering sense of the weight of the characters’ choices.Sensitive content includes murder and some instances of animal abuse. The story's tone is best described as magical, character-driven, and super entertaining. I would confidently rate this book 4.5 stars for its compelling storytelling and thought-provoking exploration of societal dynamics.
6230218759	Set against the backdrop of early 2000s elite Yale, it's a compelling exploration of class, ambition, and relationships.A bit of a thriller, Rosie a middle class girl who has to work finds a mysterious girl named Annalise has joined their friend group. Resentful at first she becomes good friends with the girl. After money goes missing tensions rise. Annelise’s identity was easy to guess but, I liked learning about tarot. It made me want to get my cards read.Thanks to netgalley and the publisher for this ALC!
6237744073	This one is going to stick with meActual stars: 4.5Format: audio, libro.fmWhat I liked: This book requires you to slow down to enjoy it. I do love when a book does that. For the first bit I felt like I was waiting for the story to begin, but then I realized that this is the story and it was amazing. Rosie was amazing from the first moment. Annaliese was exactly the kind of character I want all books to have. Ugh, I don't know what to say without giving away too much. This story is the characters and these characters are 100% worth reading. What I didn't like: I got nothing. I loved this. Who I'm recommending this to: The people who like my favorites - Stiefvater and Morgenstern. Also people who like characters and a good, slow story.
6229626907	This was WAY more horse-focused than I expected. It isn't bad! It's just. So horsey. There's also a focus on tarot reading, which I found more interesting.There are parts of this I enjoyed and parts I just did not care about in the slightest. Annelise was probably the most interesting character. I found Rosie to be frustrating and I regularly didn't understand WHY she was doing the things she was doing. I feel like the "twists" in this were very predictable, and I didn't like that the book's blurb had a plot point that doesn't occur until the ~50% mark!I did like the narrator and some of the themes were solid (though underdeveloped).Thank you to Macmillan for the audiobook!!
5879324058	Like slipping into a warm bath when you haven't been able to shake the chill from your bones for days. My reading slump is over babies: Watch me now.
6065903374	Thank you to NetGalley and Macmillan Audio for providing me with an ARC of this audiobook in exchange for an honest review.I was quickly sold on the idea of this book after realizing it was going to involve two things I enjoy reading about—dark academia and tarot. However, I was a bit curious to see how the author was going to work these two things in with the Yale equestrian team and a bunch of wealthy girls on the team and their financially stable but not wealthy friend Rosie. The fact that this was presented in audiobook format was just the cherry on top.To start with, Stephanie Cannon did a fantastic job as narrator. She managed to make all the characters sound different and easy to identify from the others, even affecting posh overtones to her speech for certain characters. Her narration kept me engaged and laser-focused on the story, even when my mind wanted to drift off.As for the story, it kind of felt like there were two different aspects to it—the first half, which focused more on the relationships between the young women in her social circle, and how the dynamics change throughout their senior year as a result of Annelise’s place in their life. The second half focused more on who Annelise really was and what actually happened to her, and was a bit faster moving.In the first half, we’re given the time to meet and get to know the characters. I personally feel that it can be nice to have the space to bond with characters before anything happens, so that I’m invested in what happens to them. In this story, I was drawn to Rosie’s sweet personality—she’s a genuinely good and kind yet somewhat naïve individual. Some of the other characters have their moments, but I found her friends to be a difficult bunch to like, with the exception of Annelise. She was such an intriguing character, mainly because she wasn’t afraid to be different in a world where so many people were the same. Yet each of the characters is thoroughly rendered, with a full story and motivation and personality to them. Even Annelise, has background provided, although we are aware that there is some mystery or secret in her past. I absolutely loved the emphasis on tarot throughout the book. In addition to Annelise performing readings throughout the first half of the book for her friends, each chapter begins with a tarot card and an explanation of what the card means. It’s clear that Kapelke-Dale has done some serious research on the cards, if she isn’t a practitioner herself. And throughout is the competitive nature of equestrian riding, as well as the distinct advantages gained through privilege—access to better horses and training, which means better skills and opportunities. Amongst the discussions of class and elitism, there are some pretty big plot twists that blindsided me. I saw one coming, but the others were shocking. I found myself rooting for Rosie to find out the answers, even as I knew it would change things forever, and kept waiting for her to finally find her voice and speak up. Overall, this was a fantastic story on so many levels, and I’m excited to go and check out her backlist after this.
6578122779	I'm going to start this by acknowledging my own privilege and also that not every character has to behave the way I would like them to and being kind of stupid doesn't necessarily make you bad and none of those things make for a bad book.The weird thing is that I hated pretty much every character, plot point, and theme in this but I kept on reading and I enjoyed it while it was happening, the author has a compelling and easy writing style that kind of sucks you in.The story is set in 2005/2006 and I guess it makes sense because I don't know if you can be this stupid/naive about wealth and privilege in 2024. But like, why? What's the point of setting it in 2005 just to make Rosie the most unbearable bootlicker? It's not satisfying because we know better, it doesn't teach me the reader any lessons, I guess it just makes me slightly angry? But I can't even muster up the anger Rosie eventually feels, because I'm an adult in 2024 so I understand that the hedge fund managers are not good guys.Okay so I'll back up. Basically this is a story about Rosie, a middle class equestrian at Yale, who lives with and is friends with the richest people there (because of the horse thing) and her experiences her senior year of college and first year post-grad. Rosie's biggest wish is to fit in with these rich girls; she is obsessed. I guess this comes from her middle class background in Illinois, she is desparate not to go back. Her best friend's father is an investment billionaire and she is an economics major (which she hates) so she can be an investment banker and make money. Her goals are money and power.The whole time she's spelling this out for you, you're like, dude, what is your deal? She is literally freaking out about not owning designer clothes and it's just hard to be invested in her story because it's so stupid, you're like, these rich girls suck! Obviously they suck! Also you suck because of how badly you want this and it's weird. (This is what I mean about this story not working in 2024. Are we not a little more educated about wealth now? Do we not all agree it's super fucking weird to spend your entire college experience trying to claw your way into the 1%?) She has this whole thing where as an econ major she's obsessed with the billionaire father's career and she's like "he does so much good" and you're like you cannot seriously believe that.I just found it hard to take the stakes seriously. I also get defensive (as an econ major myself) when characters misunderstand economics in books and it's used as a stand-in for selling out. I understand most people in econ do actually want to just make money but because also Rosie is bad at econ it's just annoying.
5658215571	The Fortune Seller is an adult contemporary novel about a young woman enmeshed in the rivalry behind the equestrian team at Yale. Rosie Macalister left small town Indiana to ride horses among the elite daughters of the wealthy at Yale. Although she is an excellent rider she is at a disadvantage because her lessons were limited to the free summer camps offered by billionaire hedge fund manager Grayson Tate’s charity. But now years later she’s on the Yale team with Grayson’s daughter (Cressida) and part of her inner circle despite not having the disposable income of the other girls. After spending her junior year abroad Rosie returns to Yale to discover that Cressida has her sharing a room with the mysterious new team member Annelise. But despite her reservations Rosie quickly finds herself drawn to Annelise who is both a talented rider and a tarot card reader. But not all the team members trust the new member with the vague background and lines begin to be drawn. Rosie finds herself stuck between her enigmatic new friend and the rest of the women. Like her other novels Rachel Kapelke-Dale introduces us to a niche lifestyle that only a small percentage of people experience. Through Rosie we learn exactly what it takes to get accepted and succeed at Yale but it’s clear that children of the elite have a leg up in both academics and sports. I appreciated that the author didn’t make Cressida and the rest of the team cartoony villains but instead spoiled and out of touch young women whose entitlement knows no bounds. I especially enjoyed the second half of the book where Rosie joins the workforce at Tate Associates and sees the dark side of high finance. Though not exactly a thriller this is a coming of age novel with elements of mystery and suspense. Starting each chapter with a tarot card and a description of what it means was a really creative way to foreshadow was going to happen next. It has a great pace and a likable main character that struggles balancing her ambition and what is right. I enjoyed The Fortune Seller and look forward to what Rachel Kapelke-Dale will write next! 🎧 audiobook notes: The Fortune Seller is read by Stephanie Cannon. She does a great job with both Rosie’s voice and Annelise’s dreamier way of speaking.
6147238331	4 starsRosie grew up in a small town in Illinois, aptly named Western Plains, where she swears everything was beige. With parents who are veterinarians and barely getting by, Rosie has been told this isn’t the life for her. So instead, Roaie works really hard in school and finds herself going to Yale.Not only Yale, but a member of the equestrian team at Yale. Yes, that sport. The one that leans toward very wealthy people. But Rosie is nothing if not determined to never have to worry about money, and this is her way to make sure of that.So when the wealthiest, most elite girl in all of her freshman class befriends her, Rosie thinks, these will be my people. But will they really? Can someone of Rosie’s background ever really be one of the elite 1%? And when Rosie realizes, as a graduate of Yale and an adult, what being part of that class means, will she really want to be there?Somewhat a coming of age novel as well as an indictment of the very privileged, this book was amazing. Again, I wasn’t quite sure at the beginning, but as the novel progressed and I became more absorbed in the lives of these young women and what they were capable of, I truly enjoyed it. Rosie is a wannabe, but a wannabe with a genuinely good heart. In the end I think that is what saves her. There is a lot of what-ifs that might have never flown in the real world, but it does make you wonder if the truly wealthy can get away with just about anything. I enjoyed this romp through the tarot and young adulthood. It was dark and serious at times. Not all fun and games. I especially liked how the cards of the tarot intertwined with the chapters themes. Well written and lots of fun to read.
6224490273	The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-Dale tells the story of Rosie Mccalister at Yale and the vibrant contrast between her middle class, flyover state upbringing vs her billionaire hedge fund manager nepo baby equestrian teammates/roomies. This I feel falls in the slow paced thriller category and tells the story of Rosie's senior year after studying in Argentina for a year. She returns to a gorgeous house secured by her roommates only to find that she has to share a room with the enigmatic Annelise Tattinger. Annelise transferred last year and is a superior rider to all of her Yale teammates. She is also very adept at reading tarot cards. But, there is mystery and unusual circumstance around her transfer and identity. Things senior year turn dark. Very dark.This was a compelling story and a very good audio book. But, I gave it 3 stars for a couple of reasons even though I overall found it enjoyable.-It was really , really dark. Many rich people did a lot of deplorable things--millions stolen from charity funds, hidden illegitimate children, murder? It is really hard to imagine a Rosie that worked her tail off to have access to Yale and these teammates really never had a way forward in their world. (Also, Rosie is daughter to two vets in the midwest--not uneducated. Rosie herself has a lot of privilege. This is so sad!)-Rosie's parents were firm that she didn't follow their footsteps, but they were critical of her work in finance and elite circles. It doesn't run both ways. -Pacing was a bit off. Second half felt like it drug a bit. All in all this was entertaining, but it won't be among my favorites of the year. Very thankful to review this book and five honest feedback.
5805137712	Note: The Fortune Seller received 3.5 stars from me but is rounded down to 3 on Goodreads (please give us at least half stars!!!!). The Fortune Seller is ultimately what I would describe as a 'lite' dark academia murder mystery. It plays off of the traditional trope of rich v. poor and how many considered ‘poor’ would scratch and claw their way up to the upper echelons only to find that the doors have been barred from the inside. In TFS , before the book even starts, our main character, Rosie, arrives at Yale and ultimately gets herself into the ‘in’ group on the Equestrian Team. However, when she comes back from a year abroad, there is suddenly a new girl in the group and it leaves her with the question… ‘ is there only room for one “charity case”’? From there, the book takes several unexpected turns – leading to some obvious and not-so-obvious reveals. I’m not going to say much more, as I don’t want to spoil who are the real victims and villians in this book – except to say, based off the back of the book, this went in a different direction than I was originally expecting. Let me be clear though, that is not a bad thing – I actually really enjoyed this ‘twist’. BOTTOM LINE: The Fortune Seller is like Gossip Girl, if GG had a murder. It deals with class divides, cliques, murder and financial schemes in the early aughts. The setting is dark academia ‘lite’ and it takes a few twists and turns – some obvious and others not so obvious. There is a lot about both tarot readings and horses in this… so if you don’t like those topics, you might want to skip! Thank you to St. Martin’s Press and Rachel Kapelke-Dale for a physical advanced reader copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
6529504834	Thank you to St. Martin’s Press for my gifted copy!Fresh from her junior year abroad in Argentina, Rosie is ready to tackle her senior year at Yale. She’s most eager to reconnect with her friends on the equestrian team,Cress, Lila, and Andra. She’s wrong-footed when she finds that their circle has grown by one to include Annelise. Rosie is the only one of her group with a middle class background and feels her place is hard-won. When a large sum of money goes missing from one of the girl’s bank accounts, doubt is cast around the group and ultimately, blame is laid on Annelise, an outcome with dire consequences. This book blends dark academia with a frank examination of the differences (both perceived and actual) between those of various SES’s. Rosie reminds me a lot of Lee from Curtis Sittenfeld’s Prep, and it was interesting to see the world of Yale through her eyes. My only major complaint would be the pacing- it felt like some parts really dragged on and could’ve been condensed into a tighter, more concise (and ultimately more suspenseful and interesting) storyline. It’s clear that Kapelke-Dale excels at writing about the dynamics among groups of female friends. This one will appeal to fans of The Divines by Ellie Eaton and The Maidens by Alex Michaelides.
6232967944	This novel was about a group of female college friends in their final year at Yale and how their friendships changed as they moved into their post college lives. Even though this was a realistic fiction novel, there was a bit of mystery woven in. Each chapter began with the description of a tarot card and its meaning, provided by the character Annelise. The tarot readings set up the chapters nicely and added to the overall story as Annelise was a main character. There were some really intense plot points that were well written and others that I didn’t feel were necessary. Overall, it was a well-written, enjoyable story and I would read another book by this author in the future. 3.5 stars rounded to 4I enjoyed the narration of this novel. The pacing was well done and the narrator used distinctive voices for each character which made it easy to tell who was talking. I would definitely listen to another audiobook read by this narrator.Thank you to #NetGalley and #MacMillanAudio for an audio ARC of #TheFortuneSeller by #RachelKapelke-Dale and narrated by #StephanieCannon in exchange for honest feedback.
5761225956	The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-Dale. Thanks to @stmartinspress for the gifted Arc ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Rosie never felt like she fits in completely with her wealthy friends at Yale. Then Annelise joins the equestrian team. She’s never met anyone like her. I really enjoyed this book. The first and second halves were different and I was pretty shocked by an event that happened halfway through. I used to read tarot, so I loved the trip down memory lane with the cards, descriptions, and readings. I loved the college-aged characters and how they interacted; as athletes it was completely different than my experience (not to mention the Ivy school). The ending got pretty wild, but in a believable way. “But though you think you’ll leave the past in the past, you never do. It drags along behind you, tin cans tied to rope around your ankles, clanking and clattering at the most inopportune moments.”The Fortune Seller comes out 2/13.
6380585201	The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-DaleFebruary 13, 2024St. Martin’s PressPages: 313Genre: Women’s New Adult & College FictionKKECReads Rating: 4/5I received a copy of this book for free, and I leave my review voluntarily. This had a realistic feel to the characters and how they were written. It was easy to identify with these characters and to connect emotionally with the situations in the book. The use of class, socioeconomic status, and popularity was well used. I enjoyed the writing style and found the flow smooth. The plot was engaging and kept me reading. This story made me appreciative that I am old and no longer caught up in wanting to be friends with people. I am pretty content with my circle. The equestrian element was exciting and well done. Admittedly, I don’t know a whole lot about horses, but I was able to follow what was happening because the writing was excellent. Overall, this dark coming-of-age novel will grip readers until the end.
8045115194	very low 3 for me. maybe a 2.5i would say this book has more equestrian talk than fortune teller, maybe almost equal, so more than i would’ve liked. it was very confusing in the beginning finding out who each of the characters were, who was talking and what was going on. after just kind of guessing, i finally started to understand who everyone was about 25% in. i was listening to it so that could of been a factor🤷🏼‍♀️ overall the book was okay, the “twists” were predictable to me. like i said before, the theme of tarot cards and fortune telling, didn’t have much of an impact on the plot and that’s what initially peaked my interest. honestly you probably could’ve taken that out and it wouldn’t have changed the book at all. anyways, it was fine but i probably wouldn’t recommend it to someone.
6014655315	4⭐️Why did this sit on my tbr for nearly two full years?? This was so good. It was a good mix between feeling both literary with a thriller subplot, but not to the point where it felt like random things were being thrown in to make it feel more intense. This is also broken into two "books" and it really does feel like reading two different books that happen to feature the same characters. It almost felt like watching two seasons of a TV show.I also really enjoyed how this ended - it felt both super realistic but also not like the author was just tying things up super quick to make it finished. It felt super true to the characters without feeling too drawn out.Thank you to St. Martin's and Netgalley for the advanced copy!
7468850513	THE FORTUNE SELLER by Rachel Kapelke-DaleA story about an elite group of Yale equestrian students in the early aughts. I learned so much about the competitive equestrian scene and horses. Maybe too much?I struggle to review this as I *did* like it enough to finish it, but it went on so much longer than it needed to. While the plot had some merit with the whole (heavily foreshadowed and predictable) murder-mystery, I was expecting more.If you’re a novice reader or even someone who reads tarot regularly, I think you’ll appreciate how tarot cards and their meanings/messages were used and incorporated within the story and chapter titles. I know I did. It’s the one thing that kept me interested in the story.In short, it was good and I liked it, but not enough to fully recommend it.Rating: 3.25/5 ⭐️🎧🗣️: #StephanieCannon
5759232131	I really enjoyed this book! The story was interesting and engaging with a huge twist that changes everything. The conversation on class was eye opening and shocking at times. The huge gap between the upper and middle class that is shown is mind boggling at times. The only reason that this is only 4 stars and not 5 is the pacing. I felt like time moved in sporadic burst and it did feel a little confusing at times, but that could also have been the point. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone with a love of horses, an interest in tarot, and those who love watching the rich and famous.Thank you to NetGalley and St Martins press for providing me an ARC to review.
7630707478	This book was awesome! I picked it up cause I read another book by this author a few years ago and loved it, so I thought Id give this one a try. Something I really enjoy about the way that it's written is the fact that I can never really predict what's going to happen next, but the events never seem out of place or unnatural for the progression of the story. This book genuinely captivated me, had me staying up until 2 or 3 in the morning sometimes reading because I just couldn't put it down. I'm a sucker for a tragic book, and this one is definitely tragic. All I can say is that I definitely wasn't expecting it to turn out the way it did, but I couldn't have hoped for a better beginning, middle, or end.
6015872832	Oof. A slow burn dark-ish academia with a drop of Mean Girls and the Thoroughbred series I loved when I was a horse girl. This book was exactly what I wanted in my reading journey and the end was so darkly satisfying. The author has a really good knack for subtle unexpected surprise!Overall, I really enjoyed this book. It was sort of a slow starter but once we really got into the story I was so hooked. Our main characters were so deliciously selfish and self-important that it nearly made me hate every single one, but I couldn’t put it down.
6083125423	An entertaining coming of age story set in the cut throat privileged world of the Yale horse riding scene and a group of college students whose friendships get tested by their disparities in wealth and ambitions. Okay on audio, this wasn't my favorite book by the author but I did enjoy how she interwove tarot into the story. Recommended for fans of books like Girls and their horses by Eliza Jane Brazier. Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an early audio copy in exchange for my honest review!
6311915674	I’m not sure how I learned about this particular book - it may have been on a Goodreads list of “Dark Academia” recommendations? (Not going to lie, I do enjoy the genre…)However I came across it, I am so glad that I did. I really enjoyed this one. I found this to be well paced, and while I am wholly unfamiliar with the competitive equestrian world, I found it an interesting place to spend time.This is the second book that I’ve read in the past few weeks that leans heavily into Tarot cards. It’s a rich topic for exploration, and I enjoyed the way Tarot readings and their explanations framed much of the novel.
5791660265	I really liked this book and love getting my tarot cards read so it was a fun read. I struggle when there is no justice in a book. We live in a world where we get very little justice, and books are and escape from reality. With a different ending I would've given this a solid 5 stars.
7459976438	The Fortune Seller by Rachel Kapelke-Dale.It’s giving Mean Girls but more serious, with horses. Also someone dies. So it’s deadly serious. Rosie comes back to school after taking a year off to find there is a new girl in her horse-riding clique. Annelise is a brilliant rider, but she’s seems more quiet and keeping parts of herself close to the chest. .What I liked:-This book really kept me guessing! Lots of things didn’t go how I thought they would.-There was a steady ominous tone to the books. These girls were all “friends” and yet I was so worried. -I really liked Rosie, she had some great underdog vibes and I was rooting for her and hoping she would make good choices..4⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ I liked The Fortune seller, and if you are in the market for a dark Mean Girls then you should give this a read.
5902451420	This book follows the lives of four college equestrians. When one of the group welcomes a new person into their lives, the entire dynamic is thrown off. Based on a description I read, I expected this book to have a bit of a supernatural element that wasn't there, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. The story explores the sometimes complicated relationships among the college friends, touching on themes of privilege, class, and loyalty. Throw in an unexpected death, and this makes for a decent readI received a free copy of this book from the publishers in exchange for an honest review
6259279355	A story about class, secrets, trying to fit and being different. A page turner with a pinch of paranormal and a cast of well rounded and fascinated characters.The first book by a new to me author. Highly recommendedMany thanks to the publisher for this ARC, all opinions are mine
7287576930	I love Tarot, so I really liked that aspect of the book. I like horses...but I grew very tired of all the riding and horse talk. If it was more mystal and less equestrian, I would have rated it higher.
5993840029	This book was a bizarre mash up of several different things that I liked but they were tied together in a weird way. The tarot card intros to each chapter were so good, I would have a read a book of just those.
6325203024	4⭐️Diversity: noHardcoverIf you like Gossip Girl, this book is for you. You're dealing with themes of classicism, finding yourself/voice, and what it means to live the life your parents want for you versus what you want. This book read like a season of Gossip Girl. Nothing and no one is as it seems. Even though I figured out one of the twists by chapter five, I was still invested in where the story was going to go. This book was a guilty pleasure, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
7920504309	20% in and I just couldn’t force myself through the rest of it.. definitely not for me
6724909011	3.5
6511409909	The first 150 pages of the book were good, but the final chunk of this book was AMAZING. Unexpected. Twisty. Also very relatable.
7334746809	It wasn't a total flop, but a lot of the horse riding stuff just wasn't relatable to me personally, so I felt it dragged on. I did however love the references to the tarot cards throughout the book.
6419819734	All that for a telenovela drama? No, just no. I'll be honest, I should stop consuming books based on the expectations I set based on the book covers, does that make sense??? I had a totally magical thing in my mind for the plot of this book. Why? Who told me that it would be like that? No one. So I can't give the book a lower rating, because it's on me. But the storyline doesn't deserve more than 3 stars, because, honestly, I've seen better shows. And the writing, again, I'm not knowledgeable about writing to comment on it, but it was good enough for me 🤷🏻‍♀️
