2665337125	Read this one for TCE book club! If this isn’t hell, the devil is surely taking notes. Lord and Lady Hardcastle are throwing a "party" at Blackheath, their crumbling British mansion.This so-called-party takes place on the anniversary of their son's murder (19 years ago), includes the exact same guests as it did so many years ago.And, during the night, trusts will be violated, truths will be exposed and above all, their daughter, Evelyn Hardcastle will be murdered.Aidan Bishop, along with two others, are in competition to be the first to discover Evelyn Hardcastle's murderer. Too little information and you're blind, too much and you're blinded. Bishop relives the night of Evelyn's murder for eight days, and each day he is in a different body and has a new chance to find the murderer. Life doesn’t always leave you a choice in how you live it. The first day, Bishop wakes up in Dr. Sebastian Bell's body, without a clue as to where he is and what he is supposed to do.The second day, Bishop wakes up in the butler's body...but "past-Bishop" is also inhabiting Bell's body. Which leads to a lot of confusion and surprise.The third day, there's current-Bishop, past-Bishop and past-past-Bishop....well you get the point. Each day Bishop adds another "character" under his belt. He gets eight bodies, and eight days, to piece together the mystery. The two others who are in competition with Bishop are unknown to him and are also inhabiting bodies (though, unlike him, they cannot swap and every "day" their memories reset). They are all racing to find out the murderer, because whoever can figure out this mystery is the winner.And the winner? The winner gets to escape. How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home? This book was confusing in the best way possible.I could barely write my summary - there's just so many layers of complexity and betrayals and everything.So effing impressed. I was wholly ensnared by the mystery - I hardly knew what to think or where to look - but it was such a fun and wild ride that I didn't care.Aiden Bishop was a wonderfully fleshed-out character and Turton did a particularly excellent job with the various bodies that Bishop possessed.In particular, I loved how each body Bishop possessed would begin to influence him. When he was Dr. Sebastian Bell, Bishop was meek, under the butler's influence Bishop became moralistic and so on. It was fascinating to watch how that played out.The only thing that threw me slightly was the end. The build to the climax and the ending were superb...but the actual grand reveal was a bit of a letdown.I honestly don't know what I as expecting, just something a bit "more" - if that makes any sense...All I know is that this is an author to watch. I cannot wait to see what Turton writes next!! We are never more ourselves than when we think people aren’t watching. Audiobook CommentsRather well-read, a thoroughly enjoyable book to listen to!YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
2555904312	Well, yikes.Here are the things I knew about this book before starting it:1) Its original title (and current UK title) was The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, which, in pure coincidence, is very very similar to The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo, and was therefore changed in the US. (I think this is awesome.)2) It’s a murder mystery with quite possibly the coolest conceit of any book ever. (I think this is awesome.)3) It’s teeming with gratuitous fat shaming. (I think this is one of the less awesome things I've ever heard in my life.)Add to that list that the style is extremely overbearing and unyielding over the course of 480 pages (which feels like many more), and you have my list of major takeaways from this reading experience.Let’s go in order.NUMBER 1: TITLE THINGWell, we basically already covered this.But it says a lot that I still think this is the most interesting thing about this book, and it has nothing to do with its contents.NUMBER 2: PLOT THINGThe idea for this book is SO COOL. Which is why it’s extra lame that I found the first 300-ish pages to be very, very boring, and also found the Big Reveal to be - while not predictable - also boring, and generally speaking was very bored by this whole thing.Also, the fact that the conceit of this book is what it is (meaning, a guy wakes up in a different person’s body every day with the task of solving the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle) means there must be Magic involved.Cool! Who doesn’t love magic?Um, apparently this author, because this Magical World goes largely unexplained and then is halfheartedly told at one point but is clearly not the Main Issue.Which is extra, extra lame.NUMBER 3: FATPHOBIA THINGReading this author say that he did not intend to shame fat people in this book is the stupidest, dumbest, most useless excuse for blatant hatred I’ve ever heard.It’s actually worse if the fat shaming in this book is not intended, because the idea that someone could go around subliminally thinking things as hateful as this is absurd. The way the fat character in this is written - traitless but for the fact that he is very fat, and therefore lonely and abhorrent and disgusting - is so awful. It’s to the point of being basically unreadable.This book got better towards the end, but I still wish I had DNFed it at this point.NUMBER 4: STYLE THINGI could tell within a couple dozen pages that this style - extremely overwrought, extremely overbearing, and extremely present for the whole book - was not going to work for me.It never did.Bottom line: The only cool thing about this book was the idea behind it, and everything about the execution was a major bummer.-------------pre-reviewwell, i didn't hate this as much as i expected.what a rave review.rtc / 2 stars-------------42 pages into this and already brutally sick of the style. YET ANOTHER PROMISING READING EXPERIENCE
2561457228	I'm always up for a good, mind-bending story, something unique and complex I can just sink my teeth into. But even though I enjoyed The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, I actually found it a bit too complicated, which is something I never thought I'd say.Evelyn Hardcastle will die at 11pm. Aiden Bishop has eight chances to relive the same day, inhabiting a different body each time, to discover who kills her. Only then will he be set free. He has many enemies working against him and also some who claim to be his allies, but who can he really trust? Such is the premise of this story, and it is an intriguing one. There was so much I liked about this book. The plot is unique, fresh, and interesting. The writing is believable and riveting, and you can tell the author went to great lengths to keep track of everything so that he can correctly weave it all together. And the mystery itself is multi-layered; the more we discover, the more we realize is still hidden beneath the surface. Yet, this is a case where the story's complexity is a bit too much and works against itself. It was really hard to keep track of everyone and to understand all that is going on. You really have to pay a lot of attention while reading not to feel lost. This was especially so in the first half of the book while we are getting to know all the characters.The complexity also made revealing the solution in the end confusing, since it wasn't straightforward. Rather, more and more are added to the mystery while bits of it are solved. Even now that I have finished the book, I'm still not sure I understand everything.I also found the implications of a sequential but also simultaneous timeline to be hard to grasp. Aiden lived sequential days in different bodies while the different bodies (with Aiden in each of them) interacted with each other simultaneously. It raises the interesting question of whether Aiden has control over his actions or is he predestined to do them because he has already observed himself doing so (from a different body). Too bad the story never satisfactorily explores this fascinating dilemma.Still, even though the book had a few things that fell short for me, I found it entertaining nonetheless. This looks to be Turton's first book, so I look forward to seeing what he comes up with in the future.~~~~~~~~~~~~See also, my thoughts on:The Last Murder at the End of the World~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧
2184345183	3.5 maybe it is just me? But never the less confusing stars🌟🌟🌟The concept of this book was really quite brilliant... A little reminiscent of both Life After Life and Ground Hog Day.... with the added little twist of the body swapping....Admittedly it is holiday time and I was not as focused on this book as I needed to be.... so as far as me being confused throughout the majority of this book, it could very likely just be a me problem.... I kept needing to go back and reread parts because I really got lost as to what body Aidan was in at what time..... I was also a little bit overwhelmed keeping track of all the characters and what part they played in the story, but again it could have been me!I liked the premise, I really was intrigued by the mystery, I just was not invested enough to probably grasp the full concept.... additionally I had a huge expectation of a fabulous ending that would make all of this make complete sense to me, and that sadly did not happen for me.....So while I found this book very clever in concept, I found it a little... ok really a lot confusing for me.... The good news is this book is not released until September, so I might give it another chance this summer when I can be a little more focused and give it the proper attention it probably deserves...*** i’d like to thank Net Galley and the publisher for a copy of this book in exchange for my honest review *** This was a buddy read, that left Norma, Marie Alyce, and myself baffled... truly think it was bad timing, definitely not a holiday read! But thanks ladies for making me realize I was not alone in this! 😘
2322363746	(4.5) If you’re looking for a book to keep you awake at night because you NEED to finish it then this is it!Somebody’s going to be murdered at the ball tonight. It won’t appear to be a murder so the murderer won’t be caught. Rectify that injustice and I’ll show you the way out.I loved how unique the premise was, a murder-mystery where the main character gets to relive the same day 8 times to try and solve it but every day he's in a different body. It was also interesting to see how the different bodies/personalities affected the story and there were twists I didn’t see coming. I was feeling a reading slump creeping in and this book fixed it so I’m rounding it up to 5 stars.Would recommend if you’re in the mood for a mystery with a sci-fi twist to it!
2494600809	I need urgent extra brain cell transplantation right now! What a mind blowing- twisting- bending and also f*cking book! If it wasn’t so much captivating journey, I wouldn’t finish it! I loved it so much but I’m really tired right now. It takes too much of your energy to read it and totally worth it!
2542543862	This was w i l d wow.
3006686062	4.5 So much fun!
2296946869	The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a thriller following an investigation into the murder of a girl who is murdered every singe night. The main character switches bodies every day in an attempt to get different points of view. And yes, it is wild.So the thing I’ve seen praised about this book is that the plot is ridiculously complex, and it very much is. I am in awe over the tight plotting used in this book. This must have taken a very long outline and the complexity certainly makes this stand out. I think, however, that the marketing has been very focused on plot twists - I was only seriously shocked by a few twists reading this book, and I’ve already forgotten what, exactly, it was. The delight in this book is not in plot twists, but in seeing the full story come together. I will say that the actual ending, though I predicted parts of it, had enough surprises that it was still delightful. As with many adult thrillers, I struggled to connect to or care about any of the characters. The lead character is almost completely lacking in personality, which makes sense given the entire theme of him being absorbed into bodies, but doesn’t work, as we’re led to believe that he is in constant danger of becoming something awful but never given details to notice or a reason to care. There’s a way of writing a compelling character with amnesia; high motivation, people around them we care about, etc, and this book doesn’t do a great job. I was mostly, however, really disappointed by the bodies Aiden switches into: almost every person he occupies is a dislikable person. Bell is quite boring and later revealed to be terrible, Mr. Collins spends his entire day in agony, Ravencourt is terrible (and for unrelated reasons his section was my absolute least favorite of the book). That’s just the first three, and I will not be going into the rest because they get much worse. Something I really enjoyed about this book, however, was the message - this book is very focused on realizing the changeability of people, and though I never cared about any of these characters much, I did find myself believing in and enjoying the message. I think this message is probably the most daring the book ever gets. ..So I actually considered and came very close to rating this book a four star, but I found myself forgetting it very quickly. With a thriller of this type, I usually would have kept my rating a four no matter how much I forgot. However, the fatphobia in this book was utterly ridiculous. I found it rather disturbing to read such an absolute distate from the narrator and author for the fatness of the character he inhabits: Ravencourt is described as a “pig” and a “cow” over and over, and repeatedly described as “disgusting” with seemingly no regard for his humanity. The voyeuristic imagery of fatness is, exclusively and completely, meant to disgust and shock the audience. It is the main thread of a good 20% of the book. a few quotes are stated here, and this reviewer only got to the beginning of this section, at 20%, so can I just say: it’s like, five times that many. I found this incredibly distasteful from about the third comment on, and the near-constant repetition of this rhetoric had me wanting to put the book down. I'm really wondering what the authorial intent is here, and perhaps more importantly, how the author must interact with overweight people in his own life.I also felt that rape was used as a plot device in a way that made me somewhat uncomfortable – SPOILER: (view spoiler)[a bunch of the book is told through the pov of a person who committed a rape approximately two hours before, and it’s criticized, but… the impacts on the victim are very much ignored. (hide spoiler)] This is a huge and very common issue in literary fiction, but I also hated it and it impacted my enjoyment of this as a thriller.So… despite many good elements, I kind of just want to tell you to read The Westing Game instead. Nothing but respect for MY president. TW: really intense fatphobia that the author really sounds like he agrees with, suicide, and rape. ✨Arc received from the publisher via Netgalley for an honest review. release date: 8 September 2018💜bro read with EmBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
2520551903	Reading The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle left me MIND BLOWN!🤯 What an intricately layered and amazing plot. If you haven't read this one yet, please jump into this book blindly and savor every moment. At times you will feel like you are flailing in the water, drowning in confusion. Just keep reading, treading through the chapters as you go. Grab hold of the bits that are sent your way and store them. It will all make sense in the end!I thought I was prepared for Turton. I read carefully, giving the book my full attention. I even re-read parts to be sure I understood what I thought I was meant to understand. Still, I did not fully see where I was being led. This was an outstanding literary puzzle! It was not only an expertly crafted whodunnit, it truly ends up being so much more. 5 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ and I'd give it more if I could. I love to be challenged and surprised by a book and this one did that and then some. 🙌🏽What a debut! I can not wait to see where Turton's mind takes us next. I'm there for it!Thank you to Stuart Turton, Sourcebooks Landmark and NetGalley for an advance copy to read in exchange for my honest review.
3384331275	Aaaaa nareszcie Super było
2610573224	wow. this book is wild! i swear, i spent the majority of the story whispering ‘what the heck is going on???’ to myself over and over. i still dont even think i know what i just read, i just know i really enjoyed it. this is a ‘whodunnit’ unlike anything i have read before. mainly because of how ambitious it is. there are so many characters, each with their own role and secrets, which creates multiple plot layers and forces different outcomes for various events, all while a murder is trying to be solved! not to mention this story isnt told in chronological order. each ‘host’ wakes up at a different point during the same day, with one man reliving that day eight times. its enough to get anyone confused! but the overwhelming amount of content is what makes this story so exciting! there is just so much to grab onto to that the reader is never left empty-handed. additionally, i love the writing. the story feels like the words of someone who has written their entire life (can we take a moment to appreciate that this is a debut?!?). not because its distinctly flashy or clever. if anything, its a very subtle kind of writing style. but its also the writing style of someone who is confident in their ability, and that kind of tone works so well this particular story and genre. i will admit, because this story asks so much by requiring the reader to steadily keep up with everything that is going on (and trust me, theres a lot), you definitely have to be in the right mood/mindset to read this and willing to make the commitment to see this to the end. so if you are looking for a thrilling murder mystery that will constantly keep you on your toes, then this book is exactly what you need!↠ 4.5 stars
2298693818	Well this is awkward. Ok so please don’t @ me, I really wanted to like this. I’ll take part blame - I didn’t realise the time travel element was quite so heavy, if I had then I’d probably have skipped it. Too much moving between characters at different parts of the day leaving each other notes and I’m sat here like what? There are way too many characters. Even with the list in the beginning, it went straight past enjoyment to just hard work. The big twist at the end wasn’t even much cop. It might be because I’ve seen the Black Mirror episode that is similar in that respect so I was like oh that again. Ok. When we do get the reveal I wanted more info. (view spoiler)[ why was Anna a murdering psycho? Give me more background! Also forgiving the person who tortured and murdered your sister enough to volunteer to go into a makeshift prison/hell and help/save her?! What the fuck! (hide spoiler)]The whole thing made me tired 😑 The 2 stars are for the beginning, it was quite gripping. ************************Why does the British copy have 7 deaths but the US version has 7 1/2. Where is the extra half death?!
3592061521	”How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?”The answer is VERY! Considering that our MC has no memories and wakes up in a totally foreign body this doesn’t really come as a surprise though. I guess we’d all be scared if we’d experience something like that. I mean at first Aiden doesn’t even know his own name, all he knows is a name that dropped from his lips before he witnessed a murder. What a way to start your day! And this is just the first one. 8 days.8 different hosts. A huge manor.A murder. A violent footman.A mysterious Plague Doctor.Several rivals.And innumerable intrigues and lies that entwine around Blackheath like ivy. ”The future isn’t a warning my friend, it’s a promise, and it won’t be broken by us.”Who can you trust?Who is telling the truth?Who is lying? Who is desperate enough to cut your throat in your sleep? ”If this isn’t hell, the devil is surely taking notes.”I LOVED this so much! <3 “The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” was some sort of “Groundhog Day” meets “Every Day” and “Sherlock Holmes”. There were so many different characters in this book and each and every single one of them had their own agenda. To collect all those hints and breadcrumbs, to keep track of the happenings, to know the right order of things, it was quite a challenge! And boy, do I love myself a decent challenge. *lol* In other words: I had so much fun trying to figure out things! There were times my brain cells ended up twisted like a pretzel but this only made everything even more intriguing! XD I already said it in my pre-review and I’ll say it again: I don’t even want to know how many hours Turton invested in all those plot lines! It must have taken ages! Also the mysterious Plague Doctor and the character of the footman added quite some thrill to the story. Aiden isn’t just hunting for the killer but he’s also hunted by the footman and this gave the story such an urgent vibe that I found myself at the edge of my seat! ”Everywhere I go, he seems to be a step ahead of me. And yet, simply winning isn’t enough. He needs me to know it. He needs me to be afraid. For some reason, he needs me to suffer.”All told, I loved the atmosphere of Blackheath, the countless mysteries that floated around in the air like a seemingly impenetrable wall of mist. Easy lies falling like ripe apples from the lips of corrupted souls, truths that vanished like smoke if you scrutinized them too closely, lies within lies and deceptions that could have filled the entire mansion with their presence. In short: This was brilliant! I won’t say more! This is a book you just need to experience for yourself and it’s definitely worth it! READ IT!! You won’t regret it! ;-)For every one of you who followed my updates closely: I managed to solve at least 2 ½ of the main puzzles and I’m going to share it in the spoiler tag! XD(view spoiler)[1.) ”The Plague Doctor was telling the truth. There’s no escape from Blackheath.”I kind of figured that Blackheath is some sort of prison. I mean we got enough hints throughout the entire book, so that one was pretty easy. ;-)2.) ”It doesn’t matter whether we like her, or whether the Plague Doctor is right, you don’t get to kill somebody and put them on display. She’s innocent, and we can stop it. And we should.”I figured out that Daniel Coleridge was no future host of Aiden. The more I saw of him the more I realized that he couldn’t be. Aiden Bishop was too honourable to be Daniel and the less hosts he had left, the less likely it became that Daniel was one of them. Call it a gut feeling I had pretty early on. 3.) I figured out that Michael Hardcastle killed Evelyn. There were a couple of hints we got and I followed them as good as I could. For instance the two black revolvers that looked exactly the same. Aiden asked Michael about them on the hunt and it was that moment when I realized that Evelyn used a white revolver when she killed herself the second time. There was a change in the pattern which only left the conclusion that the black revolver had been changed and from there on it was easy to see the connection to Michael and what it meant that she hadn’t used the black one. 4.) “This isn’t a celebration, it’s a punishment, and there’ll be fifty people in their very finest clothes watching it happen.”Now to Evelyn herself... that got my brain into a real knot. At first I suspected Cunningham to be the murderer of Thomas. He had the opportunity and a motive. After all he was one of the children that went on that scavenger hunt and he was the illegitimate son of Helena Hardcastle and Charlie Carver. Jealousy is a strong motive and he didn’t seem to be happy about his position in the house. But then I got to see more of him and stopped suspecting him. Still, I KNEW, I just knew that one of Helena’s children had to be Thomas’s murderer. She had been covered in blood but it was obvious that she didn’t kill him and so I assumed that she was trying to cover for someone else. One of her own children. A mother would always try to protect her child, no matter what it did. Well, and then I got that little bit that Michael had been at home sick. So who else had an opportunity to kill Thomas and the means to do it? Evelyn. She had a horse, everyone assumed she was out riding and no one could prove where she’d been. And here came my dilemma. I was SO damn certain that Evelyn killed her own brother. I KNEW it! But I just couldn’t align her character with the cunning deed. You see, the Evelyn I got to know throughout the entire book was a good soul. She defended her maid against a rascal; she regretted her decisions, she showed kindness to a man she had despised for his actions. It didn’t fit. How could a person like that be a killer? So I was at a loss. What I never took into consideration was that Felicity was acting as Evelyn Hardcastle and that Evelyn’s maid Madeline Aubert was actually Evelyn. Turton definitely got me there. Even when Millicent Derby and Evelyn’s father were poisoned I didn’t really suspect Evelyn. I didn’t connect Millicent going to the gallery of pictures after seeing Evelyn and her maid next to each other. *lol* And I could bite myself for that mistake. XD In retrospective it all makes sense. I mean who else would want Evelyn to be out of the picture? Michaels poisoning was just an accident because he drank from the same glass Evelyn did. 5.) And now to Helena Hardcastle. I knew she wasn’t the killer right from the start. Aiden might have suspected her but she would have never hurt her own children no matter how much she despised them. (She knew Evelyn had killed Thomas, I mean she believed it to be an accident but she never forgave her for it. Yet she still protected her for years.) So since Helena was a no-show the entire book I knew she was dead, which was the reason I suspected Cunningham for a while. He was the last one to see her alive. ;-) You see, if Cunningham would have been Thomas’s murderer he would have a reason to want his mother out of the way, and if Evelyn would have been Thomas’s murderer the same would be valid for her. But Cunningham spoke with his mother and was fond of her and he would have had multiple opportunities to kill her over the years. So what changed? Evelyn appeared on the scene. And once again I was sure Evelyn killed Thomas and Helena but I couldn’t connect it with her character which seemed to be so at odds with those sinister deeds. *LOL* Damn, if I would have made that connection with Madeline. XD 6.) And last but not least: I never would have figured out that ALL of the Hardcastle’s children were from Charlie Carver. That one caught me out of the blue. Also Anna’s true identity. Never would have known that if the Plague Doctor wouldn’t have told Aiden. *lol*So I guess that’s all for now! I hope you had fun reading my musings. XD (hide spoiler)]___________________________________I absolutely loved this!!! <3Like seriously, it was so much fun to collect all those puzzle pieces and breadcrumbs! This book made me think so much and I just loved it for twisting my mind! *lol*Also at least 2 ½ of my main theories were confirmed, which makes me a happy camper! =))Full review to come soon! Stay tuned! ;-)P.S: I don't even want to know how many hours Turton invested in all those plot lines. XD_______________________________This is going to be my first Halloween read of 2020 and I hope it’s going to be a good one! Technically “The Language of Thorns” turned out to be a perfect Halloween book too but this is the first one I actually chose for the spooky time of the year. XDI really like the idea of “The Seven ½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” and I’m curious to find out if it’s done well. Just imagine waking up in the body of the murderer one day. O_oBut then again the murderer doesn’t want Aiden to find out so this is going to be fun. ;-PAlso can anyone explain to me why it’s sometimes “The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” and then it’s “The Seven ½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle”?! I’d really love to know why they changed it.As it seems the title alone is already a mystery. *lol*
2494698613	fulfilling my 2019 goal to read (at least) one book each month that i bought in hardcover and put off reading long enough that it is now in paperback."Funny how things repeat, isn’t it?"i have read a lot of books, but i have never read anything like this. that’s one of those glib clichés; the book-blurb equivalent of picking a tattoo from the wall, but in this case, it’s the absolute truth. it’s a baller of a debut—an intricately plotted and wholly satisfying mix of sci-fi and mystery; their different-but-complementary flavors as unexpectedly addictive as m&ms in popcorn. any attempt to summarize this book will probably make me sound bonkers, but if you want a touchpoint-parade, it’s basically quantum leap meets groundhog day meets Life After Life meets downton abbey meets memento with more twists than… something really twisty. so twisty. and this is why no one invites me to pitch meetings. i’m glad i *finally* got around to reading this—i enjoyed trying to keep track of all of the layers of paths and people and timelines; attempting to winnow out the book's secrets before their various reveals, squeaking every time that creepy footman made an appearance, and loving the fact that pretty much every body our poor narrator found himself in was a different kind of terrible. "How splendid it is to be a gentleman."this is another book that, if a graphic novel version of it were to become available, OH OR A CHOOSE-YOUR-OWN-ADVENTURE (GRAPHIC) NOVEL, i would be very keen on reading it.if there’s ever a pitch meeting to make this happen, feel free to invite me to it. i will supply the snacks and similes. and sibilants.see you soon, rabbits...come to my blog!
2259156670	I just finished my September 2019 reread for my IRL book club, and I am still in love with this book! Also, I just came up with a completely different theory on what the “7 1/2 deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” REALLY means, and I’m so curious to know if I’m right. It’s horribly spoilery, and it’s behind spoiler tags at the end of this review. All the stars! Review first posted on Fantasy Literature. Debut author Stuart Turton’s The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, originally published earlier this year in Great Britain as The 7 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, is an intricately plotted murder mystery, set in an isolated early 20th century English mansion, with a highly imaginative speculative element that is only gradually revealed, as our main character tries to figure out who he really is, and how to solve the mystery of Evelyn Hardcastle’s pending death … or has her death already occurred?**I've avoided spoilers BUT I do discuss a part of the basic concept of the book in this review, some of the things that are disclosed around the 12-15% mark, not to mention in the book's blurb. There's definitely something to be said, though, for going into this book completely cold, like I did. If you're interested in doing that, stop reading this review, don't look at anyone else's, and just go read this book! It's worth your time!**The plot and setting are worthy of Agatha Christie: Lord and Lady Hardcastle have invited a number of guests to their British country mansion, Blackheath House, for a weekend party to celebrate the return of their daughter, Evelyn, from Paris. (The notable guests and household staff are conveniently listed in a copy of the party invitation at the beginning of the book.) One of the guests, Dr. Sebastian Bell, suddenly comes to himself while running through the forest surrounding Blackheath. The name “Anna” was on his lips, but he has no idea who Anna is or who he himself is. His memory is completely blank. Bell is horrified to see a man chasing a woman through the forest, and then a scream and a pistol shot.Eventually Bell, with a little mysterious help, makes his way back to the mansion, where he tries to convince the other guests to search for the woman he is certain was murdered in the forest. But nobody at Blackheath knows (or in any case admits to knowing) a woman named Anna, and they’re dubious about Bell’s improbably story, particularly in light of his amnesia. Bell meets several of the other guests, including Evelyn Hardcastle, a blonde woman in her late twenties who quickly strikes up a friendship with him (“I loathe getting to know people, so whenever I meet somebody I like, I just assume a friendship immediately. It saves a great deal of time in the long run.”) In the late evening Bell sees something that frightens him so much he faints. He wakes up in another person’s body ― the butler, Mr. Collins ― in the morning of the same day that he just lived through as Sebastian Bell. His day as Collins is even more hellish than it was the first time around. And then he wakes up again, early in the morning of that same day, in another person’s body. Is there a way out of this nightmare?I went into The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle without knowing anything about its plot; I had conveniently forgotten the blurb by the time I began reading the book. Normally I hate not having context in a novel, and being confused about what the book I’m reading is generally about. But in this case going in blind was highly appropriate, because our main character (who does find out his real name eventually) initially has no idea who he actually is or what is going on around him. The light sheds very gradually, but it all comes together in the end with an awesome set of twists and turns that Dame Christie herself certainly would have admired. Characters often aren’t who they seem, and events that seemed to signify one thing frequently turn out to have an entirely different meaning.The plot of The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is so layered, with a tremendously tight timeline and so many interwoven elements and characters, that I can’t help but picture Turton writing this novel in a room filled with vast numbers of Post-it notes and crisscrossing strings tying everything together, like in the old Heroes TV show.(Turton has, in fact, stated that he used a massive spreadsheet, a notepad for each character, and a map of the setting ― as well as the aforementioned Post-it notes ― in the process of writing this book.) The speculative element is fascinating, if slightly far-fetched, but undeniably creative. When the main character realizes that the personalities of his host bodies are leaking through, affecting his thoughts and reactions, it deepens the plot.On top of this, Turton adds insightful writing that’s a pleasure to read. I highlighted some sixty passages in the book; some of them were to help me keep track of the plot and characters, but others were simply for the beauty of Turton’s writing.She’s trying to anchor me with words … but I’m impervious to reason, consumed by my hatred for the man I was. His flaws I could accept, perhaps even overcome, but this is a betrayal. He made his mistakes and fled, leaving me holding the tatters of his scorched life.Turton also adds symbolism to The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, including the decaying mansion, Blackheath, which echoes the failings and degeneracies of the upper class characters who are the guests at this dubious house party. A chess piece appears and reappears. A person in the costume of a plague doctor shares information with our main character about his situation and his mission.This compelling murder mystery, wrapped in a soft science fiction enigma, is a truly impressive debut novel. Its combination of classic British mystery, Groundhog Day and Quantum Leap blew my mind! I enthusiastically recommend it, and I seriously can’t wait to see what Stuart Turton comes up with next.ETA: So here’s my theory about the book’s title. DO NOT open this spoiler unless you’ve read the book. (view spoiler)[ Seriously, this ruins the plot! (view spoiler)[ The real Evelyn killed the following people: Thomas, Michael, Peter, and Helena Hardcastle (her whole family, though Michael’s death was accidental), Millicent Derby, and the stable boy Keith Parker years ago. Plus indirectly Charlie Carver, who was hanged for Thomas’ murder that she committed, and she attempted to murder Felicity Maddox and half-killed her. That’s 7 1/2! Coincidence? I think not. P.S. It turns out this actually is one of the questions on Turton's GR author page, and I’m beyond tickled to find out that my theory is right!! (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2505437587	about 30% into this and I am super uncomfortable with the amount of fat shaming going on for a quite a few chapters now. I am FLABBERGASTED at so many rave reviews that don't even mention this? wtf?
2213761080	3.5 stars! I have no idea how I actually feel about this one?!?This was probably one of the most confusing and complex novels that I have ever read. I actually quite enjoyed the premise of this story as it definitely was quite clever and really made me think but in the end I was a little disappointed with the “what just happened?” ending which left me feeling a little unsatisfied. I felt a little bit cheated as I was so hoping the ending would have been just as complex and clever as the rest of the novel but for me it just seemed a little too easy.This was a Traveling Sisters Read that I read along with Berit and Marialyce. We all ended up having pretty much the same thoughts and conclusions upon finishing this book.Thank you so much to Edelweiss, Stuart Turton and Sourcebooks Landmark for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of this book in exchange for a review.
2535501446	Please let me give you a piece of advice before you start this. Take notes while reading!! Notes about everything and everyone! And focus hard!A lot of people loved this book, so I thought I was going to be one of them, because the story sounds intriguing. A woman was murdered and Aiden has 8 days to find the killer. But everyday he wakes up, he is in a different body. I got lost so so many times! Too many people involved, I couldn't even count. So many people, questions, plots, I lost track of everything. It was hard for me to immerse in the story. At some point I stopped caring about any of the characters and story itself, I just wanted to know who is the killer. I did not like the way story was told and the thing with hosts was just too confusing for me. At the beginning I tried to connect the dots and that just kept me from actually enjoying the story. I have a feeling author didn't think the story was complicated enough so he just kept adding more twists and the last few chapters were just ridiculous. I'm so glad this is over.
2593397032	Get ready for the most unusual, overwhelmingly impressive journey through this puzzle land of "Murder at the Masquerade Ball". You won't need a ticket to get in, just get a copy of the book (the hard copy so you can enjoy the map of Blackheath, a cozy and quiet place to read (you won't want any distractions), time to ponder all the twists that are going to keep your brain busy!!I loved it, but needed to pace myself and take my time to enjoy all the twisty turns that the narrator, Aiden Bishop, threw at me during his attempts to stop a murder that has already taken place!So many times while reading this one, I would have to just pause and smile at the action that was taking place because I was just so amused!!It was so atmospheric and the different players were all very intriguing and kept popping up throughout the story. Some favorites were the footman, Anna, Evelyn, and the Plague Doctor!I enjoyed my time at Blackheath House and this totally unique reading experience. I would recommend if you enjoy complex layered mysteries with a large cast of witty characters. It is a book that had me pausing, thinking, and re-reading passages (all the while with a smile :0)I borrowed this book from my library, listened on Hoopla (some chapters), and ended up buying the kindle version half-way through.
2346998989	4.5 stars!Whew, what a ride! Stuart Turton’s debut novel is the kind of debut we all yearn for: explosive, energetic, engaging and truly something fresh and new on the scene. The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a brilliant, high-concept murder mystery that had the cogs in my mind turning from the very start (imagine waking up in the forest with no memory of who you are and immediately seeing a young woman murdered!). This, in fact, was the first mystery narrative in a very long time that has made me feel like I was part of the story—immersed in the environment—and the first that pulled me in to such a degree that I felt compelled to actively try to unravel the whodunnit mystery right along with the characters. Whodunnit and why! Turton’s atmospheric world is so moody and immersive you’ll feel you should be smoking a pipe with a monocle as you devour it. It was so deliciously wrapped in a sort of British noir, complete with the “party at a country estate” of so many classic murder mysteries. Described by its publisher as “Gosford Park meets Inception by way of Agatha Christie’s Murder on the Orient Express,” this book lived up to the hype and description in a big way! Aiden Bishop is destined to relive the same day over and over again, in eight different bodies, until he can solve the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle. If he does not succeed at the end of that time, the loop restarts and he loses all of his memories of the previous loop, forcing him to start over from scratch with even the basics – who am I? What am I doing here? He realizes that he is both the hunted and the hunter, an innocent and a deceiver, in this highbrow whodunnit. Until now, I’d only witnessed my fellow guests in their handfuls, their spite spread thin across the house. To be ensnared among them all, as I am now, is something else entirely, and the further I descend into the uproar, the thicker their malice seems to become. Most of the men look to have spent the afternoon soaking in their cups and are staggering instead of dancing, snarling and starting, their conduct savage. Young women throw their heads back and laugh, their makeup running and hair coming loose as they’re passed from body to body, goading a small group of wives who’ve grouped together for safety, wary of these panting, wild-eyed creatures. Nothing like a mask to reveal somebody’s true nature…All of this is wrong. The celebration is too desperate. This is the last party before Gomorrah fell…The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle was both intelligent and intellectual, well-paced and deserving of all 500 pages it took up. In a lot of ways, The Seven Deaths was unlike any novel I’ve read before. Skillfully woven together, it was the ultimate literary puzzle. The plot was complex in a baroque but fascinating sort of way, and all the threads Turton spun came together in the end—no stone left unturned, no end left loose. With so many plots converging at once, that was quite the high feat to pull off, but you’ll find it done here superbly in this debut novel. Stuart Turton offers veritable craft in the intricacy of his plotting, a kind of craft that I rarely see anymore. The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a mind-bender complete with time leaps and multiple murders seen from multiple angles all on this same day that keeps repeating itself over and over again.The prose was lyrical—honestly, leaning toward flowery—but it is the intricacy of the plot and the atmosphere surrounding these characters that Turton allows to really shine here. Yes, there were moments when this novel graced the line between intricacy and confusion, but it all unraveled splendidly in the end. It was a puzzle of a read; there were moments when the pieces wouldn’t fit and you’d have to scrap it all and start over. For some, that may present as a frustrating experience, but this novel is a real treat to those who love mindbenders, murder mysteries, puzzles and logic games. If that’s you, I highly recommend this novel! Also, if the “Gosford Park/Inception/Agatha Christie" description got your heart racing, then this is the read for you! The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle grabbed me and held me from the very start, probably the most veritable page turner I’ve encountered so far this year, and that’s no easy feat. For such high praise and phenomenal plotting, I give Turton’s debut novel a very strong 4.5 stars. *****I received an advance-read copy of the book from the publisher, Sourcebooks Landmark, via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.FOLLOW ME HERE:Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Get a Copy of My Book | Book Editing, Author Coaching, Submit Your Book to Me
2346235345	3.5/5 starsThe less you know about this mystery thriller book, the better your experience will be.First of all, take that rating rounding up or down with a grain of salt, this is a 3.5 stars book for me. As for the review, I honestly have no idea how to review this book, not only mystery/thriller is not my usual read or books that I review, I genuinely think that anything I say can be considered a spoiler for a book like this. I’ll keep this review brief, try to go into this one as blind as possible like I did, it will enrich your experience. I’m going to mention parts that work and didn’t work for me as spoiler-free as possible in the next two paragraphs but feel free to skip reading them if you’re already interested in this book.Let’s start with the parts that work first. This is a debut and it’s a very smart book, consisting of a well-structured storyline with everything coming together in the last 20% of the book. The execution of the conclusion was superbly done and unpredictable. Just when you thought you had everything figured out, Turton keeps you surprised and engaged with revelations. It’s a slow burn but very engaging, I finished this book two days due to how unputdownable it was. I also think the side characters were well developed, especially considering the storytelling method. Prose-wise, this doesn’t feel like a debut at all, Turton’s prose is beautiful, sometimes it felt like reading a literature book. “How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?” For the parts that didn’t work, I think the main character’s background should’ve come sooner in the story. It was too late for me to really care about his predicament, I have no idea if this is the usual case with mystery/thriller books though. I mostly enjoyed reading the way the story unfolds but It could've been a better experience if I cared more about the main character. Also, one of the decisions made by the main character near the end of the book need more exposition, it didn’t make sense and didn't sit well with me no matter how I look at it. Lastly, the book went on for a bit too long; there was one part in the middle section, specifically Day 6 chapters, where I was super bored and fell asleep.That’s all. Believe me, this is shorter than my usual reviews and it’s for many good reasons. Bottom line is that if you’re a fan of mystery/thriller book, you really should give this debut a try.You can find this and the rest of my Adult Epic/High Fantasy & Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
2415483481	I really don't know how to write a review for this book. Not because I didn't like it, it was fantastic, but because the plot is so intricate and woven I don't want to give anything away. So let's just say it's the story of Aiden, who wakes with no memory at all, just the word 'Anna' on his lips. He finds he's in the middle of a forest, and then manages to stumble across a murder taking place. Aiden is then destined to relive the same day over and over again, until he can solve the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle.Stuart Turton has done a great job here in his debut novel. As I said the plot is very intricate, but it's never convoluted or confusing, though it may be if you read it over several sittings. My advice is to settle down and read it in a day or two, a big ask I know at over 500 pages, but it would definitely be worth it, just to keep things sharp in your mind. Having said that I found 'The Seven Deaths Of Evelyn Hardcastle' to be one of my best and most rewarding reads this year. Highly recommended.
3301267301	2.5 starsI like the ambition of the story.However, it felt oddly draggy in the beginning, and the ending fell completely apart into some weird I don't even know what. (view spoiler)[But it went from an old time-y English countryside mystery with a paranormal twist setting......into some kind of wonky sci-fi shit.The last 3rd of the book just completely lost me. It was odd and completely out of step with the rest of the story. I could not have cared less about any of it by the time it was over, which was perfect as none of it made any real sense to me. (hide spoiler)]You've got a guy who wakes up with amnesia, discovers that he's not who he thinks he is, watches the first day play out in a haze, meets some freaky dude in a plague doctor's costume who gives him this weird spiel about how he has X amount of time to solve a murder and escape, and then wakes up in a different body of another houseguest and it starts all over again.All of that? <--it sounds SO COOL.And it is cool, up to a point. The idea is what kept me interested. Turns out the murder is secondary to getting free of the 'curse', so it doesn't really matter. And I never could figure out if the murder was really solved or if that was just some sort of best guess because...how the fuck could you know whether or not you solved the murder? (view spoiler)[<--if all the actual people involved in this crime have been dead for whothehellknows how long? That makes ZERO sense to me unless they have some way of bringing these souls back from the dead or something? But that's not what it sounded like was happening, so it seemed like it was all just mumbo-jumbo garbage to me. (hide spoiler)]Needless to say, I found the ending very unsatisfying, but so many of my friends absolutely loved this that I think you should take my opinion with a grain of salt.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2359989910	I’ll start by saying that this is unlike any other book I’ve read. I’m not even sure I can categorise it, as the normal genres just won’t do it justice. If I said crime fiction then it would really only touch the surface. There’s certainly a strong element of whodunnit about this novel, but it’s delivered with a very large helping of something else – something I’m not willing to delve into here for fear of ruining the experience for future readers.The crime fiction element is broken down and then stitched together in a fiendishly clever way. There’s an Agatha Christie style cast and, at heart, you could certainly say that it is an old fashioned murder mystery. The setting too – that of a country estate, now in a significant state of disrepair – could certainly fit one of Christie’s novels. But that’s pretty much where the similarities end. This tale is a deconstruction of a crime fiction novel, it’s mind bending and it’s amazing and it’s delivered with terrific aplomb. After spending less than an hour with this book I was spellbound. The only thing that stopped me devouring the whole thing in one sitting was the fact that a good deal of detail is laid down in a short space of time and I needed a little time to assimilate it all (note: I tend to struggle to keep up with any book that has more than five main characters). But soon I’d gotten my head around how this story was to play out – but certainly not where it was eventually going to take me. And by then the cast of characters had become old friends.It’s a fully satisfying twist on a murder mystery and I absolutely loved it. I’m full of admiration for the level of imagination needed to put this book together and to keep track of the many twists and turns. In some ways it reminds me of Audrey Niffenegger’s The Time Traveler's Wife in that it’s a one-off way of telling a story that just nails it. I believe both books would benefit from a second reading, if for no other reason than to admire, again, the skill of the author and to spot all the little tricks, links and clues missed the first time around.A wonderful first novel from this stunningly gifted writer. My sincere thanks to Sourcebooks Landmark and NetGalley for providing a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
2417206161	I’m at a loss for words as where to begin with my review. I don’t know that I will be able to convey into words my love of Stuart Turton’s book, “The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle.” A work of genius and for anyone who loves mysteries or the true old-fashioned “who dunnit”, this is your book. This is not a modern day mystery/thriller but an honest to goodness murder mystery with a multilayered plot. This work of art requires your complete focus and attention otherwise you might miss one of the many crucial details. I found myself going back and rereading pages to make sure I didn’t miss a clue. At times, I felt totally lost but then another clue was revealed and I would be back on track.Turton’s book is not linear in the way the mystery is first revealed and ultimately solved, it will have the feel of taking one step forward and two steps back before the bigger picture becomes clear. He gives us a complex, intelligent and original novel that gave me renewed faith that there are great mystery writers out there with stories that force us to use our brain cells to figure it out. As I was nearing the end of the book, I started to turn the pages a little slower as I wistfully realized this novel was coming to an end. It’s the ultimate paradox, you want to get to the end to see the conclusion but it also means the end of this remarkable experience. As a fan of escape rooms, I love the challenge of trying to solve the mystery to get out of the room. Now imagine solving the mystery, unlocking the room only to find yourself in another room and faced with another mystery and repeating this pattern multiple times before you can escape. Solving the mystery of who killed Evelyn Hardcastle is only the beginning to unraveling the bigger mystery. The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a labyrinth, a three dimensional puzzle and a great ride all in one book. Run, don’t walk, to get a copy of this book but then catch your breath, pour yourself a glass of wine and savor each page of one of the best mysteries you will read. I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley.
2362268928	To make it short: I didn't like this book. Unfortunately!The concept sounded so cool and intriguing, but I think the story was told in a completely wrong way. I constantly felt like I missed some vital information, the amount of mystery was just too much. There was practically no foreshadowing, so most of the time, I didn't understand how the main character (whom I never warmed up to, by the way - I found him rather two-dimensional and uninteresting) came to his conclusions. The rest of the characters didn't stir up any emotions, either. They all just felt flat and dull?! I'm normally someone who latches onto characters very quickly, but here, I just didn't care about them. I wasn't interesting in what they were doing or what happened to them. I didn't care if they were happy or sad or hurt or anything.I also found the reactions of the characters to certain (very extreme and traumatic and unusual) events extremely unbelievable. It seemed like they (just like me) didn't care. And there were so many unnecessary details and characters...I think the author tried doing too much at once. This is his debut, so maybe he wanted to include every single one of his story ideas all at once?? The approach of including so many different genre-specific features could have worked, if it would have been told in the form of a longer series. Then every character (of which there were many) could have been well developed and given a defining and unique personality and every plot point could have been worked into the story in a way that would have actually made sense. The conclusion and the ending was just...stupid?? Like, when I think of it, I just feel the need to sigh so very loudly. Again, the idea on its own was actually kind of cool, but it felt so disconnected from the rest of the story...It made no sense to me. And everything wrapped up so quickly all of sudden. The fast uncovering of every last secret and mystery was implausible, in my opinion. And again, the reactions of the characters weren't realistic.I'm trying to wrap up this review quickly, because honestly, I'm getting more and more annoyed the more I have to think about this book. I just want to quickly mention one more thing: Some of the phrases that were used...Man, how cheesy can you get?? You could write down these phrases and hold a workshop on what phrases not to use when you want to write a good and original book. I don't think I ever rolled my eyes so often or so hard before.
2523840244	4.5 starsThe early reviews I read of this book were mixed, but the last two months, I’ve watched so many high ratings come in, I succumbed to temptation and requested. This was one of the most challenging reviews I’ve had to write to ensure I didn’t give a speck of the fun away. This book. Wow. The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a book you have to give a chance, and if you do, the pay-off is immense if mysteries are your cuppa. I’m offering a basic synopsis because it is best to go into this one with all doors of possibility wide open. Evelyn has been murdered before, countless times. Her parents are throwing a gala, where she will be murdered again. Luckily, Aiden is tasked with solving her murder. Evelyn’s story is detail-laden. Knowing that, it is on my short list of best mysteries because of its originality and refreshing storytelling. As I mentioned above, ample patience is required. It is not a book you will be able to speed through, but if it clicks with you like it did with me, it will be a compulsive, addictive, and impossible to put down. I spent most of the read analyzing and using my noggin trying to piece everything together, and I LOVED THAT. The writing is comforting and warm in its heaviness, and overall, I found The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle to be brilliantly plotted. Thank you to Sourcebooks for the complimentary ARC. All opinions are my own. My reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com
2292116230	5 deserving stars!!! The best book!! (04/04/19 Update: I cannot believe this will be adapted!)Read for January Buddy Read in Buddy Reads. How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?This lost, I decide. Precisely this lost. When Bell Sabastian finds himself walking in a forest, lost and stripped of his memories; the only word on his lips a name: Anna, he finds himself utterly terrified. The distant cries of a girl being chased by a murderer and then hearing a bullet go off, doesn’t help. Scared and shameful to find the girl dead, he waits when the murderer suddenly behind him, gives him a compass and a direction to follow. Without looking back, Bell, with nothing better to do follows in the direction the killer advised him to take, only to find the Blackheath mansion-dark and gray and completely isolated or so it seemed. Read more to know…To be honest, I wrote the above lines when I was still in the beginning of the book, and now it seems so far away. This book makes me wanna read more of the genre, something more confusing, unpredictable and fun! Yes, fun! I must confess that though this is a murder mystery, there were times, I smiled at the cleverness of the story at the most inappropriate times. I was hell bent on finding some clues and maybe I did (some things were easy to find if you look hard), but in the long run, this was a remarkable read. The best thing was that nothing was left unexplained. Every little piece, every clue, every missing part was explained in the end and, and, and…. I fear I’ll spoil it for you. There is so much more to it… I will highly recommend you give this book a chance to confuse you, surprise you and make you fall in love with it. I’ll reread it soon and bug everyone at home to get to it too!I really hope he writes more books! His debut is my new absolute favourite and I’m gonna go find myself a hardcopy. If you have read it already, let me know your thoughts and confusions along the way. Do add spoiler tags for our friends who haven’t. Take a look at my confused states as I went through it:(My last chapter’s thoughts have the thoughts about the end and the outcome.)My Thoughts as I Read:Chapters 1-4:(view spoiler)[ So, why didn’t that murderer kill him too? Could it be that Bell too was an accomplice (seems like a reasonable thing), but then why did he have those knife marks? And who was this Anna? The murderer is still out there, I’m kinda sure it’s one of the guests/staff members. Also, about the death of Thomas, could it be related? I am gonna try and not over-analyze anything since that’ll only confuse me further. Plus, he really is a cowardly but good at heart guy. And where is that voice coming from inside his head? Could it not be his? Could it be something he’s undergoing? Like a procedure? (hide spoiler)]Chapters 5 and 6:(view spoiler)[ What the hell? Who was the stranger? Could it be that all the old guests have been called again? The guests that were present when Thomas was murdered? Maybe to find Charlie Carver’s accomplice? Could Bell be in the helping process? And how the tell did that note from Anna tell him about his burning gloves? Perhaps it wasn’t Anna who died. He didn’t really remember her face.Plus I like Evelyn already! (hide spoiler)]Chapter 7:(view spoiler)[So, what the hell is happening? A single chess piece? But isn’t this book about the death of Evelyn? And I was right about the same guests being brought back. Could it be that Thomas’s parents are finding the culprit or could it be that since they believe that they can’t do so, they’ll punish them all?Is it weird that I don’t trust Daniel so much? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 8:(view spoiler)[Why am I smiling? This is so much fun! What if there’s no Anna? Just a name? Anyway, it could be that whosoever called him there didn’t come because of Evelyn’s presence or perhaps calling Sebastian to there was a distraction to place that stupid bloodied rabbit in his room. And that compass, where did that come from? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 9:(view spoiler)[ Oh, okay. I already know this. I wasn’t sure but this is the book where he wakes up in a different body each day, right? Will he be reliving the same day? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 10:(view spoiler)[This reminds me of a movie I watched. A movie where everything was repeated again and again until our hero finished a task. But he came back in the same body again and again and he could change how things happen by the way he reacted. Yes, it was Source Code. (hide spoiler)]Overall, Chapters 1-10So I finished the first 10 chapters and this is so so good! For some reason, I find myself smiling. Probably because of the cleverness of the plot. I hope it remains good till the end.Chapters 11-14:(view spoiler)[Some questions: that nurse (or whoever she was) who was sitting next to the butler, who was she? Could she be Anna? I wish Evelyn had revealed something. She knew? That’s unsettling. I must admit, it was clever to leave that note though I wonder what Cunningham would find. Also, whoever was in Daniel seems as irritated as our protagonist. And the footman, that’s like a devil who is after them, making them cautious and faster. I am looking forward to meeting him! (hide spoiler)]Chapter 15:(view spoiler)[One thing I don’t understand yet. Alright, everything goes the same way for 8 days. The host’s will and brain is used by the protagonist and other’s like him, but we all know there’s a reason why the hosts are doing the things they are doing-to find about Evelyn. For example, the butler was frozen in place when he saw Sebastian Bell in the rain, but he was frozen because he had been Sebastian the previous day and was only confused and shocked. Why would the real butler freeze in his steps there? Why the real characters did what they did? Little rabbit, is he? Lol. And poor Cunningham but that was a clever way. Also, did the previous people who became Ravencourt try that? (hide spoiler)]Chapters 16-17:(view spoiler)[For some weird reason, I think the man chasing them in the morning was also our protagonist. Now, that would be grand, won’t it? Aiden Bishop. If that Plague Doctor knows everything, why did he ask about the name from our protagonist in the beginning? Could it be that he also doesn’t know some stuff? Mrs. Derby sure I clever. Did Evelyn break into the room? Also, where the hell is Cunningham? Could he be involved with someone else? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 18:(view spoiler)[I don’ think it’s Cunningham or any of the eight hosts. It can’t be. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 19:(view spoiler)[All my amusement is gone too. Her parents are horrible! And they couldn’t even bother to come and announce it themselves! Ughhh! (hide spoiler)]Chapter 20:(view spoiler)[So, I suspected it might look like a suicide. Yes, why the change of weapons? Could there be something in her drink? I wish one of the hosts is Michael. Will Cunningham still be his friend when he wakes up on another day? (hide spoiler)]Chapters 21-22(view spoiler)[I don’t like his new rascal host. Ew. Maybe he is the one who actually attacks Evelyn and Madeline and then hands over the compass to Bell, but what about the bullet? Could it be the girls? I like Anna, and I hope they all are freed, but I think one would be left behind. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 23:(view spoiler)[So, I was right! This is somewhat predictable but I am immensely enjoying it. This is fun! So, the Plague Doctor regrets the Aiden voluntarily joined to solve this murder mystery? Well, maybe then they both know each other personally. Or am wrong. I wanna know that since they are solving this mystery, is Evelyn dead in real already and now they are trying to find the murderer or she will be murdered in the future and they are actually trying to avoid it? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 24:(view spoiler)[Thank God, he is now going to find out about Cunningham. Otherwise that envelope under the chair would’ve caused a huge hole in the plot. So Anna knew him before? Is that it? And why would everyone be afraid of him if he does it right? I wonder what’s plan B. this just got even more interesting! (hide spoiler)]Chapter 25:(view spoiler)[What if there’s something in that pond next to which Evelyn kills herself? No? yeah, I doubt it. Stanwin can’t be the murderer. (hide spoiler)]Chapters 26 and 27:(view spoiler)[Lol, what will happen when Derby wakes up? Could it be one of the rivals who hit him on the head? Or was it Evelyn? Also, yeah, Anna could betray him. I think he remembered Anna’s name because Aiden wanted to start from her. She might be the clue. And all this means that Evelyn Hardcastle died a long time ago. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 28:(view spoiler)[You’ve been a blight on this world ever since I brought you into it.’He brought him into the world? Oh, lol. I get it. Sorry (haha). But on another note, he has the weapon! Yay! P.S. Who broke into Helena’s room and what did he find about Cunningham? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 29:(view spoiler)[You know, I’ve not suspected Michael, but for some time, I feel like he’s been mentioned so less. Could he be involved? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 30:(view spoiler)[So, if today they are finding the killer, why did Evelyn do all that every damn day? Anyway, it could be the Plague Doctor, but I don’t know. Or the other rival or even Anna since she wanted him to be near that rock. Poor Evelyn. And did Millicent just die from just a heart attack? (hide spoiler)] You know what I love? That I am still only half-way through the book!Chapter 31:(view spoiler)[Why did Evelyn look confused when she pulled the trigger? Was she told it would be fake or was it just something natural in her state? Or perhaps she saw someone? Did she herself pull the trigger, or someone shot her before she could? He died, I loved that scene. And the death scene of Evelyn changed. Damn. (hide spoiler)]Chapters 32-34:(view spoiler)[So, what if Daniel is up to something? Why would he be so trusting? Anyway, I think that the favour he has to ask is ii be there when the footman is to be caught but I cannot be sure since they apparently dropped that chase. Also, it was weird why Gold asked him to stay in the carriage. Will he really give her up if he leaves it? I think he’ll leave the carriage anyway. I really want to see Helena now; it’s been long overdue. Anna has been missing in the last few chapters too and even though she is hiding something, I think she’ll be an ally to Aiden in the end. And Sutcliffe was the same in whose wardrobe Cunningham found the mask? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 35:(view spoiler)[Finally met one of the parents and he is such an ass. He sure is hollow and only cares about money. I never really trusted Cunningham and Helena and it’s good to learn they are mother and child. Maybe he is working for her then? Plus who told Cunningham to tell Aiden and give him the message saying all of them? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 36:(view spoiler)[This was fun. Poor Bell. But very good! Anna won’t show up but I hope it goes well. I think Anna will betray him for some reason. And I hope he doesn’t leave her. I can’t wait to see what happens when this all is done-the mystery unraveled. I wanna know who gets out. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 37:(view spoiler)[This was twisty. So, did Helena frame her lover? I don’t know if she was involved in killing Thomas, but if she were, was Thomas not her child? Sometimes I wonder if Thomas really is alive. What is Cunningham up to? Just proving that Thomas wasn’t murdered by Carver? (hide spoiler)]Chapters 38-39:(view spoiler)[So, if Aiden has done this thousands of times, did the footman too? I mean if only one of them is to get out, why didn’t the footman ever win? And why wipe their memories every time the loop is reset? And what clothes did Helena find? Were they Thomas’s? And why was Stanwin surprised at his treatment of Lucy? Are they together or something? Do they have a connection? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 40:(view spoiler)[So that was quick! I didn’t expect Daniel to just kill Stanwin like that, and then come out in the open. I wonder how Aiden changes when he is in Daniel’s body. He must be the most powerful host. That red haired girl is Lucy. Damn sure! (hide spoiler)]Chapters 41-43:(view spoiler)[Caution will be my truest friend now.Yeah, it better be!‘I don’t know how to get us both out of here, Anna.’‘I know.’‘But I will, I won’t leave without you, I promise.’‘I know that too.’And that’s when she slaps me.‘That’s for murdering me,’ she says, standing on her tiptoes to plant a kiss on the sting. ‘Now, let’s go and make sure the footman doesn’t murder any more of you.’This is so sweet! I laughed so much here. A little ease in this otherwise twisted and utterly serious tale. I want to believe Anna too. Maybe she was saving some other host of Aiden, someone who might be more helpful. Maybe she was just saving herself. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 44:(view spoiler)[So why did Gold want to be hit on the head by inviting Jim there? Daniel always was shady, but who is he then? Could he be the Plague Doctor? (hide spoiler)]Chapter45:(view spoiler)[Charles? I forgot who was Charles. Cunningham? (hide spoiler)]Chapters 46 and 47:(view spoiler)[This was a handful. Helena, why the hell are you? Poor Carver :/ And Thomas. And now Daniel!! And why did Thomas bolted? It suggests he was meeting someone at the lake. Probably Helena. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 48-50:(view spoiler)[I finally trust Cunningham! So, yeah, someone could be willing to kill the whole family. Could it be Carver now? Okay, what about Michael? Who the hell killed Peter? God, there is just too much information to hold up in my tired and exhausted brain! To be continued tomorrow. It’s just there have been more deaths just than Evelyn’s. Thomas, the stable boy, Millicent, and then there’s Carver who was innocent, and Bell and Gold who have been attacked. And Evelyn’s plan was good but it obviously failed. Someone did shoot her though. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 51:(view spoiler)[This was so good. I wish Jim didn’t die. He was so much help. Michael was going to kill her. I had my doubts about him but I didn’t think he’d do it of kindness. So, when does Evelyn die? And I did suspect Millicent’s death being a murder. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 52:(view spoiler)[Our Aiden is quick to forget, isn’t he? He got out of the carriage, he is now going with Daniel to somehow spill his own secrets…So, I read it, and damn! But I still hope Gold won’t be so crazy today. It’s the last damn day. I wonder why the Plague Doctor cares about Aiden so much. Is Anna going to betray him again? Where the hell was she? I do pity Daniel. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 53:(view spoiler)[This was so intense. He came for revenge and he took it. He took it until he forgot his sister, his vengeance, his own self. And Oliver, I wonder how he is still sane. I couldn’t see Anna for the leader of those groups. It’s a huge thing he does for Anna, to meet her even when he knows she killed his sister. Looks like Blackheath has rehabilitated him too. Now, let’s get on with Millicent. I also want Daniel out! Is it too much to ask?? I wonder what he did to get in here! Wouldn’t it be grand if he were Anna’s accomplice in real life? This story seemed to have stemmed out from Science-Fiction and I’m not wrong. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 54:(view spoiler)[What is he going to paint? This is so so so soooo good! (hide spoiler)]Chapter 55:(view spoiler)[Oh wow. She does seem to have changed. I wonder why she had Dance and the butler killed, and even Derby by having him stand next to the rock. Was it because she was forced? (hide spoiler)]Chapters 56 and 57:(view spoiler)[Another amazing chapter! Thank God, he’s dead. But he was a remarkable character. Will the butler wake up again? You know, I kept waiting for Anna to shoot the butler too, lol. Guess she is trustworthy, eh? (hide spoiler)]Chapter 58:(view spoiler)[Did the stable boy’s father do it? But he was too scared when Dance asked him. He couldn’t be it. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 59:(view spoiler)[Shit! Damn! Wow! Felicity to the rescue. Will the Plague doctor free Anna because she risked her life for Aiden? Or will he still ask for an answer? And Michael lied… he was going to kill Felicity for his psycho sister. He was an act all that time. (hide spoiler)]Chapter 60:(view spoiler)[This felt good. I hated Evelyn. She just left the poor boy there and killed her brother. Two brothers remained but Cunningham didn't matter to her, she did loved Michael a lot who was ready to kill for her. Look like she did look ill in his years or perhaps his love for her blinded him. Oliver might be punished but he was a good man, someone with a conscience. Anna and Aiden, both, became better people, though Daniel sure didn’t. He did have a clever host though. I thought they’d simply wake up and find themselves, but maybe they’ll sleep first? Doesn’t matter (does matter), I loved it! Every moment of it. Maybe it was wise to let go of the past, maybe Anna should too. But it’s hard in its own way. (hide spoiler)]Check out this amazing review from a friend:PattyMacDotComma's Review
2626726819	THE 7 ½ DEATHS OF EVELYN HARDCASTLE by Stuart Turton is twisted, complicated, one-of-a-kind, and 430 pages of sheer brilliance.MY TEASE… “If this isn’t hell, the devil is surely taking notes.” – Aiden BishopHell might very well be the secluded, rundown estate of Blackheath, owned by Lord and Lady Hardcastle, which they abandoned 19 years ago (to the day) after their son Thomas was found by the lake, murdered, while guests were at the estate to attend the Hardcastles’ masquerade ball.Charlie Carver, their groundskeeper, was hung for the crime.Now, all who were in attendance (back then) have been invited once again to Blackheath for a curiously disarming homecoming celebration for the Hardcastles’ daughter Evelyn. She had been banished to Paris by her parents, ever since her younger brother’s death, given Evelyn had been responsible for watching Thomas on the day he died. As distasteful as the present-day ball seems (falling on the anniversary of Thomas's death), none of the guests can resist its perverted lure. And history, it turns out, will not spare them of tragedy anew. Evelyn will die at 11 p.m.Was the wrong person found guilty of Thomas’s death? Does the murderer still live among the guests?That’s what Aiden Bishop’s soul has been tasked to find out: Who kills Evelyn Hardcastle? He’ll have 8 repeating days where he’ll be forced to inhabit 8 different guests (“hosts”) to solve the mystery. And if Aiden doesn’t, he’ll never leave the Blackheath estate. He'll be stuck in the hellacious loop for eternity.THOUGHTS…This book is like the game of CLUE meets GROUNDHOG DAY!I don’t know where to begin my thoughts because I have sooooo many!First and foremost, Turton is a gifted writer. GIFTED, all caps. It is hard to believe that this was his debut, and I won’t deny that I have a hefty dose of author envy! His ability to put words together in fresh and exciting ways is nothing less than brilliant.Some examples:“The clatter of rain on stone is almost deafening, the wind ripping and tearing at the forest, screaming through the trees like some feral creature slipped loose of its cage.” And … “Age is coiling around me, its fangs in my neck, drawing my strength when I needed it most.”My only criticism is that this book should come with a warning: THINKING CAPS MUST BE FIRMLY SECURED. This is not a "fun," casual beach read (not for me anyway). Nor could I imagine this novel working as an audiobook. The number of characters and details will keep most heads (like mine) spinning. Picture this: the swirling debris in the chamber of a vacuum cleaner. It takes a lot of brain java to sort everything out!!!I took notes. I underlined. And still I was challenged!Most of all, I was AMAZED at the brilliance of this masterpiece. Yeah, I’m going to say it: The best novel I’ve ever read (thus far).QUICKFIRE RATINGS from 1 (ugh) to 5 (woo-hoo)…Plot (the story): 5+Main character’s likability: 5+Development of supporting character(s): 5+Settings/Atmosphere: 5+Pacing (how fast did I turn the pages): 5+Believability (in the context of the story): 5+Satisfying ending: 5+Tension of the story: 5+Stirs the heart (romantic elements): 5 (but not in a steamy way)Did I solve the mystery/guess the ending before the reveal? Of course not!OVERALL: THE 7 ½ DEATHS OF EVELYN HARDCASTLE was the best novel I’ve ever read and faaaarrrr from the easiest.
2144783128	This book is different from anything I've read before! In a good way, of course. First, imagine you wake up in a forest with no recollection of who or where you are. After the initial disorientation and confusion (and a few other events), the main character learns that he must wake up in a stranger's body everyday until he solves the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle.When I first read the premise I thought this is the type of book I enjoy. Although it has supernatural elements to it, the novel still has a very classic-feel to it. It reminded me of the TV show Quantum Leap and also of the movie Groundhog Day.Overall, I enjoyed it and recommend it to readers of mysteries, thrillers, and contemporary fiction. Received ARC from the publisher via Netgalley
2541985941	Set on an English country manor estate in the early 20th century, the wealthy Hardcastle family are throwing a party for their friends. Except tragedy is about to strike: their returning wayward daughter Evelyn will die at 11pm – whodunit? The murderous Footman stalking the grounds, the mysterious Plague Doctor haunting the shadows, or any number of suspicious guests with questionable motives? Aiden Bishop, a man without a past, sets out to solve the case. And then a strange thing happens after Evelyn dies: the day repeats itself. Evelyn dies again and again at the same time and Aiden wakes up each day in the body of a different host. As much whadafuq as whodunit, Agatha Christie meets Groundhog Day meets Quantum Leap in Stuart Turton’s The Seven and a Half Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle. It’s an intriguing premise and an original take on the well-defined country house murder mystery story but the book unfortunately got steadily worse after a fairly decent first third and never improved. The setup is both the selling point of the book and also easily its weakest aspect because it’s so confusing. So Aiden will live the same day eight different times, each day in a different host. I took that to mean that if Aiden fails to identify the murderer then Evelyn dies and the day starts over with everything going back to their starting positions. Except it seems that previous actions Aiden took as previous hosts carry over into the next same day. But why would that be? It’s never explained. How is Aiden able to occasionally, accidentally, jump from host to host during the day? And when he does, is he jumping back to the day when he was that host or is he the host on the same day as he is another host? Aiden shares the same headspace as the host and his personality is slightly affected by whichever host he’s in. So they’re still in there and aware of not being totally in control of their bodies – kinda like in Being John Malkovich, I guess? – but they don’t seem freaked out by it…? And then towards the end Aiden talks about actually carrying all eight hosts with him into each host every time – whaaaat?? The rules are just so tricky, vague and overcomplicated, it felt frustratingly arbitrary as things just seemed to happen to suit the increasingly convoluted plot. And, good grief, is this story convoluted! Though Stuart Turton is able to stop the same day’s events becoming stale or repetitive to read thanks to switching perspectives, it does make for an overlong narrative, most of which wasn’t terribly gripping. Even if the rules were clear it still wouldn’t matter as the story got very tedious before the halfway mark. There were far too many characters to keep track of. Some were quite memorable like the morbidly obese rich man Ravencourt, his shady valet Cunningham, the even shadier Stanwin, and Evelyn herself. The Footman however remained drearily one-dimensional throughout, hunting Aiden for no reason and leering like a pantomime villain, while the appearance of Helena Hardcastle, Evelyn’s mother, notable for her lengthy absence, was so anticlimactic when she did appear.Everything about the ending was disappointing and unsatisfying. From what was really going on/why all of this was happening, to the motivations of the killer, Aiden’s own motivations, the reveal of the Plague Doctor’s identity, and the resolution of the story. Given that there are no real consequences to anything (it all resets if Aiden fails to solve the case in eight days and goes on indefinitely), there’s absolutely no tension to the narrative ever and, while it presents itself as different from other country house murder mysteries, it falls back on the same hackneyed tropes like the killer being all too eager to explain themselves at the end. And if you were curious as to what the “half” in the title might refer to, that too has a mundane explanation: it was added due to a clash with the similarly titled book, The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo. Turton keeps you guessing throughout, the premise is original, some of the characters’ stories are interesting and the novel is compelling nearly half the time, but the flaws were too overwhelming for me. Aiden’s jumping around was never fully understandable, the narrative sags too much with too many characters doing too many dull, pointless things, and the final act fails on all fronts leaving a corny aftertaste. I found The Seven and a Half Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle to be bloated, dull and gimmicky. For a better book that pulls off the “multi-narrator story revolving around a deathly mystery” far more effectively and enjoyably, I recommend Iain Pears’ masterful novel An Instance of the Fingerpost, and anyone after the epitome of the country house murder mystery would do well to check out the excellent movie Gosford Park.
2505394591	Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest Mind blowing and unputdownable, this is one of those mystery thrillers that will keep you up at night until you see how it ends. How do you stop a murder that’s already happened? The Hardcastle family is hosting a masquerade at their home, and their daughter Evelyn Hardcastle will die. She will die every day until Aiden Bishop is able identify her killer and break the cycle.But every time the day begins again, Aiden wakes up each day in a different body as one of the guests. Aiden’s only escape is to solve Evelyn Hardcastle’s murder and conquer the shadows of an enemy he struggles to even comprehend. But nothing and no one are quite what they seem. Honestly, the first couple of pages, I didn’t know where this book was going and whether I am going to enjoy it at all. But as you go through the chapters and get familiar with the story, you realise how clever this book is, and you enjoy it like you have never enjoyed any other book before. As a debut novel, Stuart Turton did an incredible job with this book. It starts slowly, and grows into a great story. We follow the main character Aiden through many bodies, day by day. The book is set into one place, one town, one house and its surroundings, and sometimes moves backwards and forwards in time. If you love mysteries and closed escape room books, you will enjoy this book so much! I have always admired Aiden. Even though all the bodies he was in tried to make him forget about who he really is, he would always fight so his character can flow on the surface! I loved the sacrifices he makes towards Anna, and their relationship. The ending, the last 30 pages are so smart, amazing and perfectly wrapped up that I couldn’t believe I never noticed those clues. I am giving it 4 stars, because, even though I really, really enjoyed it, it was extremely hard for me to follow the times and bodies, and I couldn’t get along with the stories and solve the mystery together with Aiden - I always felt like I was falling behind, that put me under stress. If you haven’t had the chance to read it yet, please grab a copy as soon as you can. This is the escape room mystery that we have all been waiting for! I want to thank NetGalley and Sourcebooks Landmark for providing me an advanced reader e-copy of this book, in exchange for my honest review. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
2159127526	“Now do you see? Escape isn’t to be found at the end of this dirt road; it’s through me. So run if you must. Run until you can’t stand, and when you wake up in Blackheath again and again, do so in the knowledge that nothing here is arbitrary, nothing overlooked, You’ll stay here until I decide otherwise.” Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Imagine you’re in a body you don’t know. You don’t remember your name, your age, nothing.You have an empty memory. You only remember one name - Anna and that you’ve seen a murder and the murderer led you to this home. You wake up every day in another body, another name, another life and another view of the same day you living over again and again. Then you meet the master of your inner prison and he tells you that you can only get back to yourself and out of Blackcastle if you do what he asks you to. Solve the crime, find the murderer. But be aware, the game itself is full of secrets. It’s a book full of riddles, mysteries and questions you can’t answer straight away.When he or she first changed bodies on the other day I was so exited. It was so intense and gripping. The whole story seems like a roller coaster giving hope and ripping it apart only to give a hint and destroy it. It’s absolutely unpredictable and the whole concept is amazing 👌🏻 brilliant 👏🏻Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️It’s different to describe characters when they change every day in this book. But they all seemed interesting, intriguing and mysterious. They all had their secrets and that made the story so much more enjoyable. Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️It was written beautifully in a nearly poetical way. It was like a crime, a riddle and a book full of beautiful phrases I needed to capture.
6300410207	Bet you’re wondering how I got here.
2624747016	When I imagine Stuart Turton writing this book I picture him consulting a complicated flowchart with arrows pointing in all directions - so he can stay on track with this complex, inventive story. The premise: Lord and Lady Hardcastle are hosting an extended house party at their crumbling estate, Blackheath House. There's plenty of food and liquor, nighttime revelry, a men's hunting party, and - the pièce de résistance - a glamorous costume ball. On the night of the gala, the daughter of the house, twentysomething Evelyn Hardcastle, is shot dead at 11:00 P.M., just when the fireworks go off. Aiden Bishop, a guest at the house party, has to discover the identity of the murderer. Sounds simple....but it's not.*****As the story opens, Aiden Bishop 'wakes up' in a woodland with no memory of who he is, and the name Anna on his lips. Bishop has seen a woman named Anna being chased by a man intent on killing her, but he isn't able to catch up with them. When Bishop makes his way back to Blackheath House to get help, people address him as 'Sebastian Bell'.....which is very puzzling.Bishop is soon brought up to speed by a mysterious figure dressed as a plague doctor. The plague doctor informs Bishop that Evelyn Hardcastle will be killed during the costume party that night, and Bishop has to identify the killer. Bishop will be forced to relive the day of the murder up to eight times, in the bodies of eight different people, unless he fingers the wrongdoer. If Bishop doesn't name the killer by the eighth day the cycle will repeat again and again and again.....ad infinitum. Moreover, other people are also trying to find the killer, and ONLY one 'sleuth' can 'win.' The first person to name the killer will be permitted to leave Blackheath. The others will be trapped there forever, in a sort of purgatory. Bishop has no memories of himself - or his life - outside Blackheath, but he knows he wants out. As the story ambles along, Bishop occupies various bodies, including:A drug-dealing doctor; An obese banker; A wealthy dilettante;A lascivious playboy;A disfigured butler;A dissolute artist; and more.The story gets even more complicated because Aiden has to spend the equivalent of a full day in each body, and 'jumps hosts' every time he falls asleep. So Bishop might be the banker for few hours, then doze off and become the butler, then zonk out and become the banker again, and so on.....until he's spent the correct amount of time in each body. To add to the drama, there's a murderous footman skulking around, bent on killing each and every host.As Bishop advances through the eight-day-cycle, minute by minute.....hour by hour.....and day by day, he accumulates clues to the identity of the killer and even tries to change the course of events. Along the way Bishop makes 'allies' - some of whom are true friends and some of whom are dirty backstabbers. Bishop eventually learns that the current situation at Blackheath has a connection to events that occurred nineteen years ago; that Lord Hardcastle has squandered the family fortune; that there's a vile blackmailer at work; and that things aren't always as they seem. The plot is cleverly constructed and I enjoyed the book, though the ending is a bit too drawn out (IMO). A few other things bothered me as well: - It's hard to believe that uppity aristocrats like the Hardcastles would have a house party in a decaying estate that's literally falling apart - with threadbare furnishings; peeling wallpaper; dirt and cobwebs everywhere; a crummy stable; a falling down boathouse; and so on. The snobby British upper-class gossipers would rip them apart.- Bishop's growing obsession to be the 'hero' to a 'damsel in distress' - no matter her flaws - strikes a wrong note. - It would have been interesting to see Bishop have at least one female host (just for fun). 😊These are minor criticisms though, and I strongly recommend the book to mystery fans. Thanks to Netgalley, the author (Stuart Turton) and the publisher (Sourcebooks Landmark) for a copy of the book.You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....
2538579400	Closing my eyes, I rest my head on the edge of the bath, trying to make sense of my situation. Finding their soul cut loose from their body would suggest death to some, but deep down I know this isn’t the afterlife. Hell would have fewer servants and better furnishings, and stripping a man of his sins seems a poor way to sit in judgement on him. I think this time I belong to the minority of people who didn't find this one as extraordinary as the premise makes it out to be. I liked the way it was written and the build-up was super exciting, but the outcome felt incredibly bland. After a very cool and rocking start, I got bored of it pretty quickly and we all know it's never a good thing. It just didn't grab my attention properly and ended up being a duty rather than an enjoyment. I also didn't think the plot twists were that mind blowing. Ugh, I'm so disappointed, yet I don't know if I'm disappointed in the book or in myself.
2406207201	Thank you to the publisher SOURCEBOOKS Landmark who provided an advance reader copy via NetGalley.This is a very unique book, unlike any I've read. I nearly gave up on reading this at 50% because the nature of the story overwhelmed me in its complexity. This is a story of a gentleman named Aiden Bishop who finds himself caught in a nightmare loop of sorts where he has to solve a murder in order to get out. It takes place in an English country manor named Blackheath tucked away in a forest, its former grandeur a thing long past. You see, a child named Thomas Hardcastle was murdered 19 years ago, and for some twisted, distasteful and sick reason the same people who were there on that day have been invited once again. Aiden Bishop has the opportunity to occupy the bodies of 8 different "hosts" on his pathway to potentially solving the murder. As the book begins, he has no distinct memory of who he really is as he occupies the body of his first host, stumbling frightfully through the forest surrounding Blackheath.However, the murder to be solved this time around is that of Thomas Hardcastle's older sister, Evelyn. One thing is sure, at eleven each night Evelyn Hardcastle will die. Whoever solves the mystery of her murder will be freed from Blackheath. You see, the same day is relived over and over again in a loop. Little things can be changed to effect different outcomes and glean more information, utilizing the intellectual and physical gifts of each host. Each time the day is relived Aiden is occupying a different body, and occasionally even does so in multiple bodies during a singular day. Each host gets a 24-hour duration, but depending on what happens to them, they might not last a full 24 hours. So, this requires going back into different hosts at different times. Sometimes the facts of a day change depending on what the people do and as more information unfolds or changes a little, it gets quite mind boggling to keep track of it all. Since I read in short spurts during the day, I would pick up the book again and find myself lost for a bit. Not wanting to give up on this book (having already invested reading 50% worth), I recently made a concerted effort to stick with it during most of my evening. I would recommend this, as it reached a momentous conclusion whilst I rode it like a storm. This was a gothic mystery, a whodunnit, and a purgatory of sorts. 50% into this I was grudgingly going to award the book three stars, but ultimately upgraded my rating to four stars- because of its high quality writing, sheer originality of plot and rich conclusion. You will experience mental somersaults keeping track of the recurring day, but I recommend persevering for the payoff of a good read.
2774466445	I’m not even going to try to explain the plot of this one because I’m not entirely convinced I understand it myself! 😁. This is a weird Groundhog Day, Life after a life type premise which is clever, mysterious and blooming convoluted. There’s tension, a bundle of secrets, it’s creepy, menacing but aspects of it had my head spinning in bewildered confusion. One of the characters keeps making references to rabbits which seems apt as I feel like I fell down a rabbit hole with Alice. Yes it’s clever but is it too darned clever for its own good???? This was a buddy read with my good friend Peter and we tried to help each other unpick and make sense of the plot conundrums and I think without his help and wise brain I’d have been in deepest despair! Thank you Peter, it was good fun even if it left us both reeling!!
2352315683	I am speechless, baffled and pretty much any other positive word you can think of. I think I’ve found a top 3 book that I will treasure for the rest of my life.If I could give this more than 5 stars I would.
4066313586	I was contemplating whether this would become one of my favourites as I felt a little conflicted about the ending. BUT. I have to give this a 5/5 and a spot on my all time favourites shelf given how unique, complex and mind blowing this was. I thoroughly enjoyed this and couldn't put it down.There was a lot going on in this! So I drew up a timeline and wrote a summary here:https://www.chuseyreader.com/book-rev...Hope this helps! Please let me know if I missed anything :) What I loved• The unique premise and execution. The complexity and the layers in the plot was amazing. I was so engrossed in the investigation, always kept guessing and throughout there were bread crumbs and discoveries that piqued my curiosity. • The characters. I find in Whodunit novels, there is typically at least 1 unlikeable and shallow character in an attempt to throw readers in every direction to keep us guessing. However, the characters in this were done so well! They were complex and made more interesting as their personality was mixed between the host and Aiden. Although the host’s personality comes through, we get glimpses of Aiden’s true self as he reacts to his emotions. • The last ~20% were non stop twists and revelations, I was absolutely at the edge of my seat and the final reveal was mind blowing. I loved the explanation of Blackheath and Aiden and Anna’s past. I wanted to know more!What I’m conflicted about:• The ending. There were some massive revelations that I thought were glossed over too fast and easily. (view spoiler)[Aiden and Anna literally walked off into the sunset despite their history. The truth about Anna was so surprising! I couldn’t believe it. All this time I thought she was one of the good guys and that Aiden’s feelings for her stemmed from a previous friendship but it turned out to be revenge! However I didn’t think that their friendship fully made sense. We learn that Anna and Aiden retained some form of memory from the previous cycle. So if Aiden’s hate was so strong and for so long - 30 years! It seems hard to believe that such an intense emotion would just fade. (hide spoiler)]
2300903860	5★“The hunt begins in half an hour and I can’t miss it. I have too many questions and most of the answers will be carrying shotguns.”Who is this “I” with the questions? My dad told me he’d read about a man whose dementia got so bad that he got up one morning, looked in the bathroom mirror, and said “Who the hell are YOU?” The reason he told me was that he had dementia, but he was a long way from that point.Our narrator is having trouble recognising himself. At one point he thinks:“. . . this bland figure in the glass. Brown hair, brown eyes and no chin to speak of, I’m any face in a crowd; just the Lord’s way of filling in the gaps.”Without giving the plot away, I’m going to attempt the impossible – talking about something similar, using animals. But, I will add some quotations from the real story to give you an idea of the writing.Let’s say you are a farm animal, a chicken perhaps, and you wake one morning to discover you are a mouse. You are horrified, so you hide under the straw and you overhear a conversation between two men. (Ok, I’m getting a bit “Charlotte’s Web” here.) A man is lamenting that he’s going to have to take desperate measures to win over someone’s wife, and shortly after, you hear a gunshot.The cat races past you, tearing out of the barn for the house. You’re too frightened to investigate, so you curl up under the straw and fall asleep.You wake to the smell of scraps of bacon by your nose which the cook has dropped, saying “Here you go, Rover. A little something to warm you up before the hunt.”Rover? A dog? You’re a dog. What’s this about a hunt? But you wag your tail at the cook, Mrs. Drudge. “A wide-hipped, ruddy-faced elderly woman is standing by the oven bellowing instructions, her pinafore covered in flour. No general ever wore a chestful of medals with such conviction.”The cat wanders by, and your earlier mouse heart leaps to your throat before you growl and scare it off. The cook leaves the kitchen, and you listen to two young fellows muttering about a stranger they saw in the stables. Why is he invited to this exclusive house party? One thinks he is rich and knows their host is in money trouble because he heard him talking with his wife.“‘. . . we’ll end up poor and I’m fairly certain we’ll be dreadful at it.’‘Most people are,’ . . . ‘Well, at least they’ve had practice,’ he says.”The second fellow saw the stranger talking to the wife in the garden. (Aha, the plot thickens. But what about that gunshot?)What about it? You’re a dog, lying by a fire, so you do what dogs do and doze off.You wake with a woman tickling your ears, saying “Good morning, Mittens!” She’s asking the maid to draw her a bath and get out her most flattering outfit, because she needs to impress a new guest if they are to save the estate from ruin. You think:“I suddenly have the sense of taking part in a play in which everybody knows their lines but me.” Then the maid shrieks. “There’s a mouse in the corner! Mittens!!!”You (Mittens) recognise your former self, miss your pounce, and let the surprised mouse escape. Remember, the mouse and the dog don’t know they will become Mittens. In each body (host), you know your past, but not your future. You wander off, but“. . . rooms I pass through are musty, thick with mildew and decay. Pellets of rat poison have been piled up in the corners, dust covering any surface too high for a maid’s short arm to reach.”Might as well curl up in a sunny spot and doze off. (This is becoming a habit. )“The hunt!” Get up, Rover! We’re off.” People shout, clattering shotguns and rattling boxes of ammunition.Rover? What? Again? And guns? You join the hunt, get shot and killed (by mistake, of course) and wake up in the barn again as the mouse. Now you're curious about the conversations and follow a trail of blood from the tack room into the woods.Enough already. I’m getting ridiculous. And this book is about people, not animals – an Agatha Christie-like, closed-loop house party in a big old, crumbling manor house with an odd assortment of characters.It’s something like Kate Atkinson's memorable Life After Life– but this is not variations on one life (like the movie based on the book Sliding Doors). This is one story from different points of view, although those points are all shared by one entity – the protagonist - battling poison, knives, guns and . . . oh, yes, there's both an unsolved murder and a foreshadowed one (Evelyn’s).It’s terrific, and I apologise for my convoluted animal comparison. Just know that our narrator starts off not knowing his own name, where he is or why. Here I would like to add my thanks to the author’s:“Special mention must go to my early readers David Bayon, Tim Danton and Nicole Kobie who read this story in its ‘David Lynch’ phase, and very kindly pointed out that clues, grammar and reminders of plot points aren’t a sign of weakness.”You mean this began with fewer clues and plot points? Gasp!There are some distinctive characters, which makes it easier to follow the story. “He’s a smear of a man with oiled hair and a pale, pinched face, his manner that of somebody who finds everything in the room beneath him.”This fellow is a bit more appealing.“Freckles are splashed across his nose, honey-coloured eyes and short blond hair suggesting a face spun out of sunlight.”No vampires or werewolves, but they wouldn’t be out of place in this scary, dismal setting. Where to go?“I suggest you use this time to hide yourself somewhere he won’t find you. Argentina, perhaps. Good luck to you.”There were a few names similar enough to make me check the very handy cast of characters in the front. One thing I did wish the author had included was the charcoal tree drawing referred to near the end of the book to help us as well as the character.I’d love to think it’s in the final printed version, or that some enterprising fan will create one. Many thanks to NetGalley and Bloomsbury for the preview copy from which I’ve quoted. Thanks also to SOURCEBOOKS Landmark for the preview of The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle to be published in September 2018. Whatever the number of deaths, it is a unique mystery! [Read June 2018]
2374135335	Well damn, now that I've finally made it to the end, I don't know how to go about rating this bloody book. I've contemplated everything from a 2-star rating to a 5+-star rating. I guess the real answer lies somewhere in the middle, so I'm going to go with 3 stars for now (but I suspect I'll come back and change it a few times before I'm satisfied).This story will appeal more to those who like a challenging read -- there are a lot of characters and events that you must keep track of as the plot progresses. It's a very complex story that is deftly written, with some very good character development -- and goodness, there are a lot of characters to develop!I don't want to give away any of the story with spoilers, but if you can do it, imagine a smash-up between a British "country house" murder mystery and the movie Groundhog Day and a bit of Memento with just a smidge of this: (and how could I forget this): Yeah, I know, it sounds crazy-weird, but somehow it all works. The story takes a really long time to get going -- it was at about the 47% mark when things finally picked up for me. After that point, the pace was a bit better, but there were still portions that dragged. If you're a hurry-up-to-see-where-this-is-going-type reader (like me), you may find this to be more frustrating than enjoyable. On the other hand, if you enjoy the journey of a story more than you care about how things get resolved, then you will probably enjoy this more than I did. I think I would actually enjoy this much more as an 8-part TV series -- it would be easier to keep track of who is who, and to visualize some of the more complicated aspects.I listened to the audio version as narrated by James Cameron Stewart, and for the most part, he did an excellent job of providing the many (many, many, many) different voices required for all the characters in this book. I was rarely confused about which character was speaking. That said, if you opt for the audio version, I cannot emphasize enough how important it is to get your hands on the first few pages from the book. I downloaded the kindle sample, and that gave me access to both the page that lists the cast of characters (and a bit about their relationships to each other) and the map that is printed in the book. Trust me -- you definitely want these to help you keep track of things, especially in the beginning.
2587868505	This book might be a bit difficult to review. There's a TON of fantastic plotting and truly wild mystery reveals packed in here, keeping us always guessing and on our toes. The level of detail is equal to the plotting, as is the uber-Clue model that frames the book. But the best part was the fantasy aspect. This isn't a normal whodunit, no matter what anyone says. Body-hopping and repeated days like Groundhog Day fills the pages. Just trying to figure out THAT part kept my mind as busy or busier than the murder mystery.But then there are the aspects, despite the good writing and fantastic setup, that dragged the book down for me.Many, if not most of the characters were really hard to enjoy, bringing equal amounts of distaste and cringing to the tale. Almost no one is a redeemable character, and while that's to be expected in a Clue-type tale, a novel generally needs at least ONE anchor point.... but the narrator is an almost blank slate, giving us almost no motivation to feel for him even when we finally get his reveals. Forgive me for the hint of the reveals but the everyman lost almost all of his memories and became a large portion of these despicable creatures through the course of the tale. So how much of an everyman is he? He's practically subsumed in the muck.And then there is the last bit I had some trouble with. It was too long. Bits went on and on while I had no decent anchor to hang my hat on and I just didn't care about what was going on because the core of the tale was a bit too occluded until MUCH later. Yes, a lot of this is necessary because of this type of book. The joy of the surprise, the multiple twists here rather REQUIRE the setup we are given almost as if we're reading (or rather, watching,) Momento. I just think a shorter treatment when we are SO much in the dark might have worked better.Otherwise, the wrap-up and the twists really did make this novel stand out and shout. I still recommend it despite all my bellyaching. :)
2326081724	Good Lord, I made it. I actually sighed in relief when I finished this. Safe to say, I was not impressed. This was effing boring. God, at one point I bumped the audio up to 2.0 and still couldn’t finish fast enough. This just didn’t hold my attention, at all. While the premise was interesting, this was sooooo long and soooo slow moving. On top of that I didn’t find a single character interesting. I don’t have a lot to say except I was bored and confused most of the time. T God it’s over. A U D I O B O O KThe one positive of listening to this was that the narrator was really good. His narration voice was very soothing and he did a really good job with distinct voices for every character.This book took 10 years off my life, I swear. I have wrinkles now.
2539070265	I’m at a loss for words as where to begin with my review. I don’t know that I will be able to convey into words my love of Stuart Turton’s book, “The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle.” A work of genius and for anyone who loves mysteries or the true old-fashioned “who dunnit”, this is your book. This is not a modern day mystery/thriller but an honest to goodness murder mystery with a multilayered plot. This work of art requires your complete focus and attention otherwise you might miss one of the many crucial details. I found myself going back and rereading pages to make sure I didn’t miss a clue. At times, I felt totally lost but then another clue was revealed and I would be back on track.Turton’s book is not linear in the way the mystery is first revealed and ultimately solved, it will have the feel of taking one step forward and two steps back before the bigger picture becomes clear. He gives us a complex, intelligent and original novel that gave me renewed faith that there are great mystery writers out there with stories that force us to use our brain cells to figure it out. As I was nearing the end of the book, I started to turn the pages a little slower as I wistfully realized this novel was coming to an end. It’s the ultimate paradox, you want to get to the end to see the conclusion but it also means the end of this remarkable experience. As a fan of escape rooms, I love the challenge of trying to solve the mystery to get out of the room. Now imagine solving the mystery, unlocking the room only to find yourself in another room and faced with another mystery and repeating this pattern multiple times before you can escape. Solving the mystery of who killed Evelyn Hardcastle is only the beginning to unraveling the bigger mystery. The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a labyrinth, a three dimensional puzzle and a great ride all in one book. Run, don’t walk, to get a copy of this book but then catch your breath, pour yourself a glass of wine and savor each page of one of the best mysteries you will read. I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley.
2306695753	I really enjoyed this except for the RIDICULOUS amount of fatphobia in this....omg it was horrific.
3839456070	Before you begin this book, you will need to put on your thinking cap! You see, your being sent on a mission to find a killer 🧐 At first this book was confusing. You never know which character you will wake up in and what their story will be. But along the way you learn tiny details that all add up. Each character is unique enough for the reader to easily remember who is who. The plot is designed to give the reader clues but you have to finish the book in order to understand everything that happens. You may even want to take notes like a real detective, sleuthing your way to all the answers! Evelyn dies everyday, not to begin the same day over each morning. it’s your job to find out who is killing her and you may even find out why. I really enjoyed this book even tho it is a slow and tedious read. I felt like Sherlock Holmes, playing a game of Clue in a unescapable time loop. And it was Delightful!!
2345863270	Original. Mind-blowing. Refreshing. I loved it! Although I do recommend going into it without any expectations, because I’m afraid all this (well-deserved) GREAT HYPE it gets might ruin it for some people.
3429577701	The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle by Stuart Turton was chosen by followers, friends, and fans on my blog's monthly Book Bucket List contest. I added this book because I liked the concept and the occult intrigue associated with the story. I borrowed it from the library and read it in a couple of days this weekend. So, what did I think about it, you ask? I'm still a bit confused, not an uncommon reaction to a book of this sort. Let's chat a bit about the plot.A man wakes up and has no memory of his identity. He quickly meets people on an estate and is told who he is, but it feels wrong. We learn that he's trapped in some sort of a game and over the course of a week, he will inhabit the body of 8 different people in the hope she can solve the identity of Evelyn Hardcastle's murder. During this week, we meet tons of guests and family members, each of who has a secret or strange personality quirk. When the realities behind the game become too real, everything unravels. Underneath it all, there are several deaths, multiple villains, and a few guests we hear about but never quite meet. What's really going on here?I mentioned I was confused, right? To start off with, I write books with immensely complicated plots, including a series with over a hundred characters, so I'm well-versed in understanding how to keep track of it all. I struggled on this one! I love the concept of confusion, intentionally done to keep a reader guessing, but only if it is fully solved by the end. My biggest issue with this book is the lack of any real, fully developed conclusion. Tons of people were picked to be the host bodies, yet many where not. Why? Some of the different characters had partial stories, so I couldn't connect with them. If this had all come together in the end, I'd be raving about the book. Unfortunately, while the plot is wickedly good, the approach and explanation didn't work for me.Without giving away spoilers, I will say... if you're looking for a traditional thriller with some unique storytelling methods, you'll like it. If you like occult / paranormal / fantasy / sci-fi with unique storytelling methods, you'll like it. But the book sits between these two genres, and without a strong hold in either, I found myself floundering to truly grasp the plot and feel the mesmerizing beauty of a masterpiece. I totally understand how/why the murder happened, and it is intricate and shocking and believable; however, at the same time, what does the game have to do with it all? I felt like that was too much of the focus for the purpose of confusion without clarity that ended up proving the reason for all the extra drama and subtle behaviors. It failed for me for the same reason I don't like fantasy and sci-fi books -- there are rarely rules. Death is meaningless if you can come back to life, so therefore I find myself unable to latch on.On the positive side, the writing is wonderful. The characters are some of the most vivid I've seen in awhile. The concept is really fantastic, and it draws you in. I was wild for a few hours trying to solve the puzzle, and I didn't want to put it down. But I also skimmed a few paragraphs because the timing was slightly off. Just when you were getting info, it slowed down. Or when you were finding out surprising facts, it stops and goes elsewhere... so I flipped pages to reach that connection, not because it was an amazing read. Then I went back and read what I missed. For those reasons, I waffled between and 3 and 4 on a rating. I rounded up because I recognize how much effort the author has put into this book. I'd definitely read more by the author, assuming the plot is less fantasy/sci-fi and more grounded in reality.
2494714831	I started reading The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle on 10/2/2018 and finished it on 10/30/2018 at 1:10AM. This book is the most fantastic read! I like how unexpected the mystery reveal itself. I couldn’t guess where the story was heading. I didn’t read the synopsis so I know as much as each character until the mystery reveals bits by bits. I love every surprises until the end. I enjoy Lord Revencourt’s character a lot. He’s realistic and humorous in his state. I love this complex mystery! It’s unlike anything I have ever read before and it’s my absolute favorite. I like how brutal honest Aiden is when he analyzes how each person acts and thinks. I love having the footman’s involvement in all of this because it increases the stakes and makes this book a thrilling read.This book is told in the first person point of view following a disoriented man who found himself in the woods but couldn’t remember who he was and why he’s there. He found himself shouting for Anna even though he doesn’t know who she was. To make matters worse, he saw a woman begging for help and someone chasing after her. He hesitated and couldn’t catch up close enough to protect her when he heard the gun goes off. Then someone gave him a compass and directed him to go East. He arrived at Blackheath manor to report the murder even though he didn’t see who the killer was or knew of the victim. The person in the house told him that he’s among friends and that he’s Doctor Sebastian Bell. The Blackheath manor is open to friends and family to welcome back Evelyn Hardcastle. However, Evelyn Hardcastle thought that her parents are punishing her for the death of her brother 19 years ago where she left him at home to go horseback riding. This story takes place over 8 days. Dr. Bell found himself in an unexplainable game because now he learns that he’s only Dr. Bell for one day and he’s told to solve a crime before the eighth day is up.The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is very well written. I love historical fiction for the sophisticated writing and smart communication between characters. The story, to me, reads in a slow paced but only because I didn’t want to miss out on all the twists and turns. Such a clever plot and excellent bunch of characters for this unique read! The different views to the day is cool to follow. There is never a dull moment because everyday brings new adventures and deceits. The ending is an intoxicating surprise and I couldn’t have guessed it. I love the idea to this crime and punishment. This book is amazing and I highly recommend everyone to read it! I have voted this book every time someone ask what book to read on Goodreads because this book is it!Pro: page turner, suspense, mystery, adrenaline rush, twists and turns, thrill, actions & adventures, secrets & lies,Con: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to Sourcebooks for the opportunity to read and review. Please be assured that my opinions are honest.xoxo, Jasmine at www.howusefulitis.wordpress.com for more details
2776748696	THE GOOD:* can you hear that high pitched sound in the distance? yeah, that’s me screaming* what the FUCK did I just read* honestly, everyone who wants to write a murder mystery novel can sit the fuck down, mr. Turton takes this cake and all other cakes that will ever be made* this is honestly the most clever, unique, original and creative murder mystery book I’ve ever read. Ever. Literally oh mY GOD* me for most of the plot: *that gif of travolta in pulp fiction when he had no idea what the fuck was going on*; alternatively: a headless chicken* this will confuse the hell out of you, but it’s okay - if there’s someone in this world who actually figured shit out before the end, get that human into Mensa* very atmospheric (i wanted to dress up in a ball gown, go in a haunted mansion and ask the ghosts to point me towards an unsolved murder in exchange for chicken nuggets because I brought nothing else with me) * so well plotted and written, fantastic cast of characters - I just... i literally have no words* very very addictive, I struggled to put this down, because I HAD TO KNOW WHAT THE EVERLOVING FUCK WAS GOING ON* yes, I’m a bit emotional, sue me* i’m crying pls read thisTHE BAD:* not applying to me personally, but there are readers who found this exceedingly convoluted and slow at times, but I guess everyone is entitled to their wrong opinion, who am i to judgeYAY or NAY: pls refer to “The Good” section of this review thank you have a good dayFavourite quotes:“We are never more ourselves than when we think people aren’t watching.”“Anger’s solid, it has weight. You can beat your fists against it. Pity’s a fog to become lost within.” “So many memories and secrets, so many burdens. Every life has such weight. I don’t know how anybody carries even one.” ★★★★★To everyone who got this far, thank you for reading and have a wonderful day! Also, feel free to share your thoughts, comment or tell me anything :)
2315750423	Dec 2022 rereadThe plotting in this book was so diabolical that I felt like I was reading it anew and found myself all absorbed again as I only remembered the overall gist of the story but none of the details. The way the clues unravelled themselves using the most unusual time-travel or time-looping mechanism was just mind-bending. ‐---------------------A mind-boggling Buddy Read with the wonderful Celeste.4.5 stars.An ingenious and brilliant debut, The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle was a deliciously thrilling and mind-bending page-turner.This novel has been termed as Groundhog Day meets Agatha Christie, or even Inception meets Agatha Christie. While the reference to the grande dame of mystery is doubtlessly appropriate, I find Quantum Leap in a time loop a more fitting description of what the main protagonist had to undertake. That is to solve the mystery of who murdered Evelyn Hardcastle by living the same day, over and over again, but with a twist. Even with all the allusions made in describing this book, I still deem it as highly original; a heady concoction of genre tropes stirred and served in a wholly fresh and inventive manner. It behoves me to hold back on mentioning the plot at all. There isn’t even a table of contents at the beginning of the paperback I was reading. And as I progressed through the story, I realised that even having a clue of which day the next chapter may be is a potential spoiler. It is safe to say that one will be surprised and that one will not be able to predict much of anything. The unravelling of the clues was not apparent at first glance at all, but once they started to gradually fall into place, it was hard to keep my brain from going into hyperdrive and almost impossible to Put. The. Darn. Book. Down. Scintillating and complex plot aside, I must commend the atmospheric feel of the location. The entire story takes place in Blackheath, an early twentieth-century manor house belonging to the Hardcastles that has almost fallen into desuetude if not for the gala masquerade party being thrown for their daughter on this fateful day. The state of the house and its extensive grounds exuded the air of a mysterious place haunted by its tragic past and shrouded with secrets. The ominous mood and tone lent itself to fairly frequent frissons of excitement and I also half expected to encounter the supernatural at times. As far as setting goes, it was perfection.In the same vein of classic mysteries, the party was attended by a plethora of guests, most of whom have their own deep and dark secrets. Secrets which can assist our MC to solve the mystery and get himself out of this 'locked room'. Blackheath is a mire of darkness and depravity; actors and actresses playing their roles behind masks which reveal more than they conceal. The intoxicating combination of an atmospheric setting, morally ambiguous characters, bewildering time loops/overlaps and unpredictability of the tale serves up a truly compelling narrative that refuses to leave your mind long after you have finished. The only thing keeping it from being 5-stars is this vague feeling that I wanted something a bit more from the conclusion of the story; just one more chapter perhaps. Last but not in the least, the writing was marvellous. I have a weakness for the British manner of speaking and writing, and Turton delivered with much aplomb. At the hands of the author, we got a crime and mystery thriller full of sarcastic asides, dark and dry humour and brilliant descriptions of the mundane or otherwise. While I could happily do so, I would refrain from relating all the delightful commentaries one comes by in this novel. Well, do permit me to share just one line which described one’s loss of previous good looks, to corroborate my claim above. A ragged spectre of beauty suggests itself, but his stash of splendour has almost run dry. As far as mystery thrillers go, my repertoire remains lacking and is nowhere close to that for the fantasy genre. Fantasy fans can also be harder to please when it comes to the more literary kind of fiction simply because we are so used to the fantastical and epic endings. Regardless, I am truly impressed and will highly recommend The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle to all readers.
5326379296	This felt like Quantum Leaps version of Clue. 🥸 It was the butler in the pantry with a candlestick- wait- today, that’s me. 😜 I wouldn’t say I was on the edge of my seat or anything whilst reading this one. 🤷🏼‍♀️ But it wasn’t bad either.
2269356919	TW: Death, animal slaughter, drug abuse/overdose, mentions of rape/sexual abuse, (suicide), fat shaming, physical violence "Tomorrow can be whatever I want it to be, which means for the first time in decades, I can look forward to it. Instead of being something to fear, it can be a promise I make myself. A chance to be braver or kinder, to make what was wrong right. To be better than I am today." Not to sound like a total head case, but asdfghjkl@#$*&! Before anything else, I want to specify that I understand firsthand how this book can effuse a polarizing effect on each and every one who has gone through this book already, they either really hated it (dnf-ed it, put up with it somehow yet slogged through at best) or ineffably loved it (like the majority of us did).Even so, it does not take away the admiration I have for the author for all the grit it takes to weave a debut novel that is utterly intricate, complex, unique, clever and creative; all of which The Seven Deaths Of Evelyn Hardcastle unmistakably harbors and extends to the readers.In fact, the ingenuity and sheer peculiarity of the plot are what drew me in to this story. As appealing as it is, it has its few drawbacks, albeit none that robbed off its meritorious storytelling. One of those would be some very few loose ends left untouched. (view spoiler)[Like what Annabelle did that drove half the world to be furious at her, what criminal deeds she had acted upon that made up most of her past life as well as Daniel's transgressions against society (hide spoiler)] And the other involves the very British-esque of the writing style, hindering a rather smooth flow of events. But in a strange way, these small blemishes still somehow make for a stellar material and as such, a blueprint for future improved works of the author. The pleasure I found whilst plowing through the book trumps all these snags aforementioned. In other words, this is a five-star read from me all the same.I'd write a whole book of every twist and turn there is in this narrative and still it wouldn't be enough to compress all the details and cover every single pretense intended to inspire more thrills and higher stakes that made up almost its entirety.I'm going to go out on a limb here and brazenly declare that I liked how this book went to a very satisfying finish, unlike a number of readers stating their views otherwise. Their explicit disapproval on how things were untangled and on the book itself sounded more like baseless claims and flimsy attempts to change my obstinate opinion on it. I could not have asked for a better denouement than the one Mr. Turton had decided to go with.You know the feeling you sometimes get when you think there's nothing that could blindside you anymore because you've already gone through every plausible grim turnabouts you could think of being used as plot devices in a murder mystery novel playing on a loop (pun intended) inside the thin confines of your sanity but then this one thing just happened to pop on your radar and everything from then on reminded you that what you once believed wasn't nearly as convincing now as you thought it was then? Because that is how I dealt with this book.I cannot possibly give this book any more justice than it rightfully deserves because everything I write here is purely subjective but know that this book has had taken ahold of my attention until lately. I could not put my mind off it for even a full hour and I just kept wanting needing to know more before my brain shut down of its own accord. Well, not after I let myself overanalyze each detail, which probably short-circuited my brain and shoved it over the edge, soon realizing it had enough.With the complexity of each host/character comes a heedful and elaborate tread towards grey morality lane and the distinctiveness of personalities split into different bodies, making every separate povs known to every reader and easy to trudge on plot-wise. The backdrop that is Blackheath sends forth an ominous, atmospheric and haunting vibe to the book as the conundrum progresses. On top of it all, the overall premise stands out as its most striking feat among others that factor its claim to a warranted prestige.This book explores grief in the most subtle way, revenge and how it takes a huge part to reckless and capricious behavior thus ruining the better part of oneself, fine lines of morality, intensive healing, the weight of forgiveness and wholesome redemption at its epitome. It is gutsy, unrestrained, unflinchingly honest, masterfully crafted and adeptly put together to form a majorly compulsive novel. I would love nothing more than to persuade you to take on a breathtaking spin and a similarly unforgettable experience I have just had with this rare piece.Or better yet, set this one down on your next-to-read shelf now.
2560113019	This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book PrescriptionActual Rating: 3.75 starsA BR with Sylvie and Jill“How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?”🌟 This is one of the times that I read the books based on the synopsis only and the cover was not appealing to let me read the book. This mixes two of my favorite Genres: Fantasy and Mystery/ Thriller so I knew I had to read it.🌟 You are thrown into the book and you’re suddenly confused as the main character is confused to begin with. This confusion decreases as you progress and start getting hints and clues with each and every chapter. But it was kind of paradoxical, I was confused then not then as we are introduced into more hosts I was really confused and the last 10 chapters makes thing clear again. The author describes the book as time-travel, body-hopping, murder-mystery novel. While I was reading this many asked me what it was about and when I explained then they said what a headache!!🌟 So this book is definitely not for everyone, I am one of those people who like time-travel a lot but I am easily confused by it and though I got the majority of this book, I didn’t understand everything tbh. If you are one of those people who is easily confused then you can pass this book.🌟 The writing was good but nothing special, It didn’t stand out among all the other “good” writing styles that I read before. “Nothing like a mask to reveal somebody’s true nature.” 🌟 The characters were unique and I really loved what the author did with the body-hopping and how the MC is affected by them, I enjoyed the notion that we sometimes criticize people but we can’t relate to them and if we were in their place, in their bodies we would have done the same, that was a really genius concept!!🌟 The mystery part was not the best I ever read, it may have been lost with all the other things going around. I wanted to know what happens next but not caring much about the murder part!🌟 The ending was a bit over the top and not very satisfying for me, I expected a bit more with all the hype surrounding this book. I think that this book may get a sequel or something judging from that ending.🌟 Summary: A book with a great concept and good execution but it can be really confusing if you don’t concentrate enough, this is not an easy and a light read, it may even be better to take notes or draw a timeline for the story to get everything. I know it was hard to read and thus it should have been harder to write and I appreciate that. It was mostly a 3 stars read for me but the last chapter improved it and it jumped to 3.75 stars! I still prefer easier reads as Agatha Christie books where it is an easier case with more clues and less confusion.🌟 Prescription: For fans of both Mystery/ thriller books and time traveling. If you are looking for a mind-twisting novel then this is for you.
2669461411	The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle by Stuart Turton is my first favourite book of 2019( and I need more stars to by the way)I love the whole concept of body switching and murder solving all in one book and what a mind trip it was 😵(in a good way)I felt you ride along with the main character Aiden really easy there are a few characters which if I was stuck in side of ( I know that sounds just wrong) I would of jumped out of the window 😌, there's a couple of what the hell moments but every part of this book is a tiny clue to that twist of an ending which you do not see coming at all.This book I would highly recommend if you want a different kind of murder mystery with a hint of a fun guessing game all in one then this is the book your looking for.
2622266020	Here’s the thing: Time travel plots are very difficult to get right. By their nature, time travel stories don’t make logical sense. We all know it. In the real world, time moves in a straight line in one direction only. Time travel stories are circular. A causes B to happen, B causes C to happen. C stops A from happening, which would logically mean by stopping A from happening, it would itself cease to exist, because without A, there no longer is a B, and without a B there no longer is a C… and yet this is not quite so. Is it? Hence, logic is out the window. We know this about time travel stories. And yet, some of them are done beautifully, and we enjoy them tremendously. You know why? Because the story doesn’t rely on its logic to move forward. Instead, it has wonderful memorable characters: People who move (figurative) mountains, swim through TIME to be together, or change the world, or right a wrong. People who long after the book is finished and we’re very fuzzy on what even happened that allowed them to be where they were at the moment they were, stay with us.Now here’s the thing about science fiction: Again, they have to be done right, or else they’re painful, and they’re so easy to do wrong. The science of it doesn’t quite add up; so, again, logic is out the window. But, if you get them right, they’re so epic, that you find it rather devastating that they’re actually science fiction. You’re furious that our science hasn’t quite caught up to the science in the story, because wouldn’t it be so magical if only this could be….Ok, now here’s the other thing (I promise this is my last “thing”): What do we consider a good murder mystery? What is so wonderfully great about the work of Agatha Christie, Arthur Conan Doyle, and dare I say, more recently, Robert Galbraith (aka my beloved J.K. Rowling)? A good murder mystery has one of 2 things (or if it’s a GREAT murder mystery, then it has both): 1) it sprinkles all the clues along the way. You don’t know whodunit, but damn it, you feel like you’re so close. It’s at the tip of your tongue. You feel like if you were given just one or two more clues, you could figure it out. Then there’s the big reveal at the end, and you have your aha moment, when everything falls into place and you wonder how on earth you didn’t see it before? The stories are set up in a way that you’re given enough clues to really solve it, and when it’s solved, you realize it was all in front of you all along. You were just outsmarted by Sherlock, or Poirot, or Miss Marple, or Cormoran Strike…2) Or otherwise, maybe the murder mystery wasn’t quite so well hashed out, but you don’t read the book for that anyway. You read the book because you just adore the characters. They’re so well defined, so real, so human, that you feel like you know them like they’re your friends, like you can reach out into the book and touch them. (ahem, Strike and Robin!)So now here we have a brand new author who takes these 3 things (time travel, sci-fi, and murder mystery) and puts them all into a debut novel. So I thought, well, that’s BOLD! I like it! I read the reviews. They were raving. I couldn’t wait! Then I read this book. And the best way to explain what I thought of it is a brilliant review I read of season 2 of the HBO TV show Westworld. The reviewer said: “The writers of this show dazzled us in season 1. Then they hit a wall, and decided to go with the: ‘If you can’t dazzle them with brilliance, confuse them with bullshit’ method”. Stuart Turton certainly did just that. The plot is confusing. It is very very confusing. I had known it would be. Complex plots are my jam! They don’t intimidate me. I sat down with my pen and paper ready to take notes, and considering there’s time travel, ready to even create a timeline that I would jump back and forth with the story on, to keep up! But alas, this did not help. The story is not just complex. It’s also convoluted. The author repeated no less than 75 times that nothing is as it seems. No one is who they say they are. And he went soooooooo far out of his way to prove this point, that he lost the plot, as the British say. (And he’s British, so pun very much intended!) I can’t even begin to explain what a convoluted mess this was. It’s almost like the author had this bet, when someone much smarter than him said to him: “I bet you can’t write a book that would confuse the shit out of me”, and he responded: “Oh ya? You’re on!”But that’s not the problem. If the plot is complex and confusing and none of us get it, until the final big reveal, when the author sits us down and schools us, that’s cool, I guess? Go right ahead. But the ending was so anticlimactic and so nonsensical that I read it, and I honestly thought: “That’s it? Are you serious? THAT’s what you’re going with?” How incredibly unoriginal! What an unappetizing concoction of all the things cool kids are digging these days (Westworld, Black Mirror, ummm Downton Abby?!)… Also, here’s another inherent problem with this plot: Your main characters don’t have a character. Their character, their memories, whatever their story had been to land them where they are today, has been erased, and to top it off, the main dude lives in different bodies every day, influenced by new hosts he inhabits each day, and to top that off, the main characters’ memories are wiped again with a frequency anywhere between 1 to 8 days. Do you know what this gives you? Main characters whose personalities truly resemble a lemon! Why would I care about any of these one dimensional zero-depth characters? Go ahead and solve a murder. Or don’t. I don’t know any of these characters; I don’t like any of these characters. Why would I care what happens to literally ANY of them? There were way too many characters in the story to the point that we need an introduction glossary up front, PLUS the laughably one dimensional psychotic villain running around with a knife (the footman), the pointlessly clanned for a Halloween party “plague doctor” … I mean come on! Also, there’s literally zero stakes in this game: Whoever is murdered today, is alive tomorrow again. So is it even a real murder? What is the actual significance of any of this? They die at 11pm. They wake up the next morning. What are they even missing? The few hours of the night we’re all asleep anyway? But it gets worse: In his attempt to make everyone as unlikable as possible, the author literally resorted to anything. There are murderers (oh so many many murderers….), drug dealers, blackmailers, bullies, a gambler, a rapist, all tools in a shed randomly removed at various times to advance a plot. But most horrifically, once he ran out of all the above scumbags, he resorted to a character the reader is meant to despise for no other reason than their obesity. And, man, was the fat shaming in this book ever unnecessary and harsh. At first, I was reading it thinking there’s a point to this. There’s a lesson here. Surely, we are going to find out the prejudice against someone due to their weight is going to come back to haunt us. Nope! There’s no reason whatsoever for the extreme wording used many times over, e.g. “tremendous monument of his stomach”, “I'm ravenous and tear into my meal like an animal”, “pig in a trough”, etc. etc. So here I was, pen in hand, taking notes, going deeper and deeper into this very confusing mess of a storyline, till it hit me. I don’t care. I actually really don’t. The book was boring. I had checked out. I was just reading it at this point because it was too late to DNF, and I just wanted to get through it. The one good thing that came out of reading this book is that I managed to save several of my bookclub friends from wasting their time on this book by warning them about how utterly unenjoyable this book is to the very bitter end.To the people who’ve compared this book to an Agatha Christie murder mystery I say: "How dare you?" No, I’m serious. If you think this book is anywhere even remotely close to the timeless brilliance of the mind of Agatha Christie, then you are truly out to lunch, and you personally owe me for wasting my time, because it was your reviews that inspired me to read this book!Honestly, I had started this review with a 2-star rating, but writing this talked me into reducing the rating to 1-star.
2472623275	Deserves all the Stars in the Sky! 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Who could’ve predicted that a novel combining Agatha Christie, Downton Abbey, Back to the Future, and Groundhog Day could possibly work in a million years? Not me? Well, not only does it work, The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is imaginative, bizarre, trippy, ground-breaking, creative, spell-binding, and gripping. That’s a lot of adjectives I know, but it deserves every single one of them.Just a brief synopsis, as it’s better to go in blind, and I’m loathe to spoil anything. So, basically you have Aiden Bishop cursed to repeat the same day, waking every morning in the body of a different guest, until he solves the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle.I had it in my head that Seven Deaths would be a bordering on cosy mystery, with glittering jewels, sparkling champagne, fancy decor, gorgeous gowns, etc, and that the body jumps would be a fun, amusing addition. Um, nope, that’s not this book. Several pages in and I was chilled to the bone, and that feeling of ominous dread never let up. It was a lot darker than I was expecting, and I relished every thrilling page. It’s a spooky, eerie tale, that included just about every gothic-horror element you could possibly dream up. Just to name a few, there’s a foreboding lake, secret passageways, flickering candles, creepy masks, stormy weather, damsels in distress, and deceptive, cunning villains. I would also class it as a haunted house story, as Blackheath House is a remote, decaying, cold building, with a tragic, violent history, and the guests have a ghostlike quality to them. Don’t worry, it’s not all doom and gloom though, there are lighter, comedy moments, and witty dialogue, but they are few and far in between.Word of warning, you will find the plot very confusing at first, but don’t despair, stick with it, you will eventually get the hang of things. And as soon as you do, more confusion will follow. My head was spinning the whole time. There’s also a lot to keep track of, as well as a large cast of characters, so reading it is quite the commitment, but there is a handy list of players, as well as a map of the grounds at the front of the book. In the beginning I wasn’t even sure I was reading the right novel as it didn’t appear to resemble the book summary at all, luckily there were several characters with the surname Hardcastle otherwise I would’ve been totally lost. I listened to the first four chapters in audible, and it did not work for me for some reason, I couldn’t follow it at all. So I switched to the book, and re-read the chapters, and there were huge chunks I’d missed, even though I’d been listening really closely, so not sure why that was, but reading it was so much easiest to retain everything. I did read really slowly though, partly because I didn’t want to miss anything, but largely because I didn’t want the book to end!Out of the 72 books I’ve read this year, this is my favourite, and with only a little over three months to go The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is going to be hard to beat. Stuart Turton, you are a true legend! Thank you from the bottom of my heart for penning such an incredible book. Hope you have another one up your sleeve... and soon...Note: Also published under the title ‘The Seven and a ½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle’.
2578710285	DNF @ 100 pagesUnpopular opinion: I could not get through this book. The writing style was too much for me. I tried reading this book three separate times and I just can't get invested in the story, which is such a bummer because everyone seems to love this book.
2366690443	Full review now posted!4.5 out of 5 stars.“How lost do you have to be to let the devil lead you home?”There’s very little I can say about this book except that it’s one of the most original things I’ve ever read. It’s a twofold mystery, and had been compared to both Agatha Christie and Groundhog Day. I think you could throw a little comparison to Invasion of the Body Snatchers into the mix, and have an almost perfect description of this book. The atmosphere reminded me of The Haunting of Hill House, but without the ghosts. Even though this book does have things in common with each of those, it is entirely its own creature and is undoubtedly worth a read. I’m not going to mention the characters or the setting or the mystery that encases the book. I firmly believe that this is a story that works best if you go in as blind as possible. I would even avoid reading the synopsis, if possible. Accordingly, this review will be as vague as I can manage.One thing I can mention is the prose, which was lovely. Turton had quite a way of evoking imagery regarding things that have no physical representation, such as time and memory and anger. Here’s an example:“One by one I knit these new memories together until I’ve got five minutes of past to wrap myself in.”Is that not the coolest mental image of memory? And here is another one:“Anger’s solid, it has weight. You can beat your fists against it. Pity’s a fog to become lost within.” I didn’t realize how true this was until I read it. Isn’t this why people hate to be pitied, because we can’t fight it? It engulfs and hides and suffocates, and it’s incredibly hard to maneuver your way out of. This book was filled with lines like this, simple things written in such a way that you had to pause and ruminate on what you had just read. Turton’s novel in no way felt like a debut, and I eagerly await more from him.Another thing I really loved about this book was the emphasis on redemption even in the midst of darkness. Depravity should be viewed as something to be overcome instead of something to succumb to, and this novel did a fantastic job of showing that no one is beyond redemption. Even the darkest soul can repent, and beneath the layers of mystery, that’s what this novel demonstrated.As I stated above, this book is a twofold mystery. Usually I can guess at least the majority of a solution to a mystery. The only mysteries I’ve read in recent years that left me baffled until the very end, when everything was revealed, have both been mysteries penned by Agatha Christie. This book left me just as baffled. Even when I did pick up on clues, I couldn’t figure out what they meant until the reveal. Looking back, I can see the trail of clues and where they lead, but that trail was almost impossible to follow during a first reading. This is such a rarity that I have to applaud Turton for his efforts. I don’t think this is a book that would be much fun to reread more than once, but one reread would be tremendous fun if treated as a scavenger hunt, picking up clues that you missed during your first reading.The only thing that was a drawback for me was the use of first person present tense. I just always have a problem enjoying and immersing myself in a story when it’s told using this method. Having said that, I also have to say that no other point of view or tense would have worked for this story; first person present was absolutely necessary. But though I admit that the story had to be told this way, it still hindered my enjoyment, which is the only reason this book is a 4.5 star read instead of a full 5 stars for me.If you’re a fan of the mystery genre but you have a hard time finding a book that actually surprises you, I can’t recommend this highly enough. I’ve never read anything quite like it.I buddy read this book with the lovely TS!For more of my reviews, as well as my own fiction and thoughts on life, check out my blog, Celestial Musings.
3097780277	I had heard such high praises for this book, so naturally I expected to absolutely love it. But it didn't come to that and it make me a bit sad. When other people were whining about how hard it is to follow all the action and heroes, I was ready to take on the challenge. After the first three days in the story, I brushed those readers off as amateurs, but actually the real trouble was just starting. Soon I became so enveloped in my schemes and guesses that I wondered why this book didn't come with a timeline printout and a clue diary included (wink, wink that's a business idea for you, mr author). And then... it was pushed too far. I had many theories about the secrets of this book. Some of those proved to be true, some didn't, some were never resolved... But my interest in the book itself was waning. It had gotten too long, too complicated and too repetitive to the point where I didn't have to guess what will happen - I knew. I was tired of it.The main plot twist was very cool, I liked it, but it didn't escalate. The resolution of the book was underwhelming and partially I had guessed crucial parts of the resolution (yes, despite having trouble to keep all my clues and characters in my head). It was fun, but didn't last and I had to push myself to finish it. It's not a great murder mystery if you don't really care about who the murderer is, so 3 stars feels like a fair assessment.
2561017718	Author Stuart Turton sums up his novel, “The 7 ½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle” in his Acknowledgments as: “a time-travel, body-hopping, murder mystery novel”. Indeed, one can’t explain it any better than that.The lead character, Aiden Bishop, is to inhabit eight witnesses on eight different days, of the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle. If he figures out who is responsible for Evelyn’s murder, he will be set free. Aiden is stuck in one dank, dreary day at the estate of Blackheath. Each day he inhabits a character and sees the day from that character’s perspective. I suggest taking notes on the different characters, as they collide in time. There are many moving parts, and by the fifth day, all the characters seem to pass each other during the day.It’s a basic “who dun nit” novel, with the cunning of time travel. In each new body, Aiden does recall what he learned from previous experiences. It’s a novel that keeps the reader on their toes. At first reading about one day over and over again doesn’t seem exhausting. By midway through the novel, it takes great effort to remember along with Aiden what is going on behind the scenes. I found the novel to be clever and creative. It’s not one to be read as book candy. This takes concentration, and it’s worth all the effort.
3882651256	2021 is shaping up to be an awesome book year because I'm getting one homerun after another!In The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle the main character must solve a murder while reliving the same day eight times in eight different bodies.To say this is a mere murder mystery is a huge understatement! It's a complex and original book with a dark, foreboding atmosphere and smooth writing. The beginning was a bit jarring, and I spent the first chapter wondering if I'd made a mistake with this one. But by chapter two I was utterly engrossed. It was pure joy watching the pieces of this incredible jigsaw methodically come together. I figured out a couple of outcomes and completely missed the mark with others. But none of that mattered. This is the kind of book where the journey is so much more important than the destination. The concept was clever and interesting, and the overall theme of forgiveness and change was beautiful.I already have another book by this author on hold at my library. I can't wait to see if he can make it two for two.
2134400337	First of all, I'd like to thank Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.Every reader knows that, every once in a while, a book comes along that reminds you just how much you love reading, and that is absolutely what The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle did for me. I’ve read a few other books this year that I adored, but not many, and most of them were slow reads where I was pausing frequently to savour all the emotion they stirred up - it’s been far too long since the last time a book had me so hooked that I was loath to put it down for even a moment. And then I started Seven Deaths, and was utterly unable to stop: I flew through the pages, reading the latter 90% of the book in 2 days flat, during which time I managed to a) be late for work; b) almost forget to have dinner; c) stay up too late to finish it - if that’s not a glowing review, I don’t know what is!But enough about me and my reading experience - let’s get into the reasons why this book is so great.The most important thing you need to know about it is that it is diabolically, ridiculously clever. This is a murder mystery, but with a time-travelling, body-swapping twist - as you’ll know if you’ve read the summary, our protagonist Aiden Bishop is doomed to re-live the day of Evelyn Hardcastle’s murder at her parents’ crumbling mansion until he solves the mystery of who killed her, and each day he wakes up in the body of a different guest or servant, reliving the day from their perspective and using their skills to help him in his investigation. What a concept, am I right?The scope and ambition are just staggering - the amount of planning and care that went into this novel shines through every page, as Stuart Turton juggles nigh infinite plotlines, timelines, reveals, characters, secrets and lies with apparent ease. But despite the astonishingly intricate plot, there is no loose thread left dangling, no avenue of possibility left unexplored, not a single plot hole that I picked up on. It’s astounding, even more so for the fact that it’s a debut novel.It also gave me a new appreciation for the combination of a first-person narrative told in the present tense - it’s so rarely done right that I usually groan inwardly every time I open a new book and see it on the first page. But here, it was perfect - the reader shares every moment of doubt and confusion that Aiden feels, making for a truly immersive reading experience. This novel simply wouldn’t have worked if it was written any other way, because the true joy of it is that feeling of having been plunged into the sinister world of Blackheath yourself, so that the characters’ desperation to solve the mystery almost becomes your own; no other writing style could have pitched the tension that sings through every page so perfectly. Plus, Aiden’s narrative voice is absolutely wonderful.I’m actually really struggling with this review, because there are so many reveals and twists that saying much more about the plot would inevitably lead into spoiler territory, but I will say that while it would be more than reasonable to recommend this book simply based on the cleverness of the plot - which is, as I may have mentioned once or twice, an utter delight - there is also an emotional heart to the story. Identity is the key theme that runs through the core of this book, from the very first page to the closing words, and not just because Aiden wakes up as a different person each day, although that is of course a large part of it - after all, how can he hold onto himself when he’s wearing someone else’s face and mind? But also, who is he outside of Blackheath? How does a person change when they don a mask? Is anyone’s personality ever set in stone, and is it possible to find redemption through changing who you are? This is a fast-paced firecracker of a novel (aside from the first 60 pages or so, which are mostly slower, though just as suspenseful), but it’s scattered with beautiful moments of quiet reflection, too.All in all, I was delighted by The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle - it was such a unique, mind-bending reading experience that I truly don’t know how any other murder mystery will ever live up to it. (I’ve also been dreaming about murder mysteries for the past two nights - make of that what you will). The ending wasn’t actually my favourite part of the story (which is unusual, as the ending is the strongest part of almost all of my other favourite books), but the wild ride leading up to it was exhilarating, page-turning, utterly addictive reading. I could not recommend this book any more highly.
2586960256	Es la mejor aventura gráfica que he jugado en años. Solo que resulta ser un libro y hay que leerlo.Pero sin duda la mayor innovación de esta novela es, digamos, "la mecánica". La forma fresca e inusual de presentar un "whodunit" que, en esencia, es muy clásico. Porque los ingredientes son esencialmente los mismos: una mansión, un asesinato y muchos sospechosos con secretos a los que hay que ir eliminando para descubrir al culpable. Es como si fuera una deconstrucción de las novelas de misterio de la Edad de Oro británica. Describirlo como una mezcla entre Agatha Christie y "Atrapado en el tiempo" es, por lo tanto, adecuada. Aunque la persona que trataba de definir este libro debió dejarlo ahí, porque las otras dos referencias que se dan en la contraportada, sobre todo una de ellas, deja entrever demasiado la trama y la explicación final.Me lo he pasado muy bien leyendo esta historia. Y me ha parecido genial cómo el autor hace pantalla: dada la estructura de la novela, lo único que tiene que hacer es que la persona que habita el protagonista en ese momento no se dé cuenta de algo por no estar en el lugar o no ser muy avispado. Aunque es cierto que en un par de ocasiones hace pantalla de la forma "tradicional" y un poco tramposilla, pero teniendo en cuenta el género a mí particularmente no me importa.Esta novela es todo ingenio. La trama está bien y el misterio engancha, pero lo más loable es la forma. Stuart Turton dijo en una entrevista que dibujó un plano y puso a los distintos personajes chequeando cada dos minutos dónde estarían dentro de la historia para que no hubiera agujeros de guión ni contradicciones. Es un trabajo casi artesanal, y da sus frutos.A los amantes del género que buscan nuevas formas de escribirlo debería encantarles esta historia.
2552467637	(4.5*) This is a very original and clever story - I just could not put it down.The less you know about this book coming in to it the better, but ultimately this gave me Downton abbey meets Groundhog day vibes and i am here for it.I found the story to be utterly engrossing and i stayed up well past my bed time trying to finish it. Highly recommend this read.This would have been a 5* read, if i didn't have so many questions left unanswered!
2394822003	Buckle up your seatbelts, readers! This is a mindbending, genreblasting rollercoaster of a read. As described it contains elements of Groundhog Day and Quantum Leap. With all there is to learn in the eight days given to our protagonist to solve the mystery, will he even believe Evelyn is worth saving? Reminiscent of "Dark Matter" by Blake Crouch as you are doing mental gymnastics and a fabulous choice for book groups. This edition even had discussion questions included.This book is firmly in my memory even four years later. Reading The 22 Murders of Madison May really reminded me of this brain twister.
3507896921	4.5 / 5 İlk defa bir kitaba ne yorum yazacağımı bilmiyorum sanırım 🙊 Hayatımda hiç bu kadar beyin yakan tam anlamıyla “Mind Blowing” bir kitap okumamıştım ! Biraz Agatha Christie,biraz Dark biraz da Labirent serisi tadında bir kitap arayanlar buraya diyebilirim 😂 Öncelikle şunu söyleyeceğim bu kitabı yakın arkadaşımla aynı anda okuduğum için inanılmaz şanslıyım çünkü tek başınıza okuyunca gerçekten beyinler iflas aşamasına geliyor 😂🙊⚡️ Sürekli bir olay döngüsü içerisinde sürekli merak ettiğiniz şeyler oluyor ve her bölümün sonunda bomba bir bilgiyle karşılaşıp katili tahmin etmeye çalışıyorsunuz bu bakımdan benim için inanılmaz zevkliydi diyebilirim çünkü yazar en ince detayı bile öyle güzel işlemiş ki okurken hayran kalıyorsunuz. Zaten bunu yazan yazarın normal bir yazar olduğunu asla düşünmüyorum gerçekten müthiş bir zeka 😂 Kitabın tek sorunu bence sonunun bu derece müthiş bir kitaba göre tam olarak tatmin edici yazılmamış olmasıydı ve açıklanamayan birkaç olayın olmasıydı ki bunları yazıp spoiler vermeyeceğim merak edenler Merve’nin sayfasına girip bakabilir 🙊 bu yüzden zaten 4.5 verdim ki hala kitabı bitirmemize rağmen kafamızda soru işaretleri bıraktı diyebilirim. Ben polisiye/gizem seven herkesin mutlaka okumasını tavsiye ederim beynimi yakmasına rağmen okurken muazzam keyif aldım 🙊💕Dip not : Kitabı okurken Merve’yle beraber milyonlarca senaryo çizdik senaryolardan biri başarılı evet fakat katil konusunda bence istese de kimse başarılı olamayacak ama siz yine de deneyin şansınızı derim 😂🥳🥂⚡️
2469635464	Well. This book was unexpected, twisted, and I can see why it was such an instant hit with so many people.We follow a man who wakes up without memory. We're in what I perceived to be the English countryside and there might have been a murder (the man remembers a gunshot and the name "Ana"). He's at the seat of the Hardcastle family that has fallen into ruins after one of the three Hardcastle children was tragically murdered 19 years ago. Now, the parents are throwing a ball and one that ends with the murder of the titular Evelyn, another of the Hardcastle children (though now older, of course).The nameless man, Aiden as we find out soon-ish (or from the blurp *lol*) is supposed to solve the crime but has failed before. Yep, he's doomed to relive the same day over and over, from different perspectives - and apparently has done so before without success.I LOVE murder mysteries and the body-hopping / reliving of the same day was a marvellous way of letting us readers get to know almost all the guests in the manor. These people's dark secrets and debaucheries knew no boundaries and although I usually despise gossip, I often love it in such books. Nobody's nice, everyone could be the murderer, you have to follow the clues and won't pity anybody.Strange things have happened 19 years ago, strange things are happening now and I'm not just talking about the investigation but also about how and why Aiden is hopping from body to body, how and why he can relive the same day in the first place. And who the hell is the guy in the Plague Doctor costume?!Well, in short: I had a blast. These people would all have deserved being killed. *lol* That's what makes these mysteries so exciting because everyone is a suspect and the deeper you dig, the more awfulness you'll find. Juicy! And it's not like it's unrealistic.I must admit that I was surprised at the strong fantasy element since I had expected it to be a "normal" but very well-written murder mystery à la Agatha Christie but what you get with this book is so much more.I also loved the atmosphere of the house and forest, being in the middle of nowhere, not really knowing what year it is or which POV we're going to experience next and how certain changes will play out in the future. It's all part of the puzzle and I love puzzles.So why "only" 4 stars. Well, because I can almost not believe Aiden's sudden (view spoiler)[change of heart. He followed the murderess of his sister into this twisted prison, stayed there for 30 years to torture her, lost himself in the loops and suddenly he's lovey-dovey and all about redemption and forgiveness (hide spoiler)]?! Moreover, this set-up needs skill and money, meaning that (view spoiler)[whoever runs the prison - and I really would have liked more info about Olliver's bosses - has a lot of both but we are supposed to believe Aiden and Ana can just outrun them (and why don't they just refuse to let them both wake up, it's not like they couldn't, I'm sure)?! With half the world hating Ana even after all these years (which also means her crimes must have truly been atrocious, way beyond the usual weapon-selling) (hide spoiler)]!That just was a bit too much of a stretch for me which means the world-building didn't work 100%.Nevertheless, a VERY good mystery book with some unexpected twists and turns and delightful debauchery.
6018239650	Where to begin? The title of The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is very similar to a book I loved and rated five stars, The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo. Initially I thought (incorrectly) that the two books would be very similar. I was way off track.The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a mystery that grabbed me by the throat at the very beginning. A man regains consciousness in the woods and hears a woman crying for help and then she is murdered. As he attempts to seek help, he discovers that he and several others are pawns in a murder mystery drama. He inhabits eight different bodies in an attempt to solve the murder.This book reminded me of John Lennon's song, Mind Games, the Michael Douglas movie, The Game, and Adam Sandler's movie, 52 Dates. It is a downright crazy scenario that keeps being replayed while small details are slowly revealed.I listened to it on audiobook but ended up not finishing it after getting 80% through it. It became too repetitive to relive a murder scene over and over again.
