3090414724	Yessss! Congratulations! This book won the Goodreads Choice Awards by beating king of the authors ( yes, with so many votes it beat Mr. King’s It Bleeds) !🎉🌈💕🎈🥳🥂Hell yeah! This deliciously terrifying, gothic adventure will be adapted to Hulu limited series! I cannot wait to binge watch! What an amazing news!🥳🥂💃🏻🕺🏼OMG! I had no brain right now! The author stole it! I wish she would have put some bravery into my heart because I think I’m not gonna sleep at least for a week and I already brought back Christmas ornaments and enlightened house (I don’t have any idea how much electric bill will coast next month but I’m sure my husband will have the worst scream crying experience of his lifetime.)This book is insanely terrifying, spin-tingling, horrifying, mind blowing, eyes popping, tear jerker (nope it’s not emotional, you cry like a baby because you realize you just pissed your pants when you were reading it and you’re dying from humiliation! I’ve been there!), paranoid, a dangerous dancing between Mexican folklore, horror stories and Darwin’s theory of natural selection. You want to throw the book and start running outside from your house. ( I took 5 tours around Sunset Boulevard at the rush hour and was saluted by angry drivers’ flipping birds but I didn’t care! Running gave me endorphin and adrenalin I needed.)Here is the eerie, ominous, petrifying plot of the book: Noemi is sent to High Place after her father gets an awkward and suspicious letter from her cousin Catalina, recently got married. The letter implied that she’s suffering from a mental illness or there’s something really wrong about her husband Virgil’s mansion. So Noemi goes there to check her cousin’s medical condition and learn the truth hid behind her letter.But as she takes a few steps to the house, she feels that something is really really wrong about the place : she’s introduced to Virgil’s family resembles us Manson Family meets Adam Family. Yes, they’re completely weird, living by strict rules, having marriages in family, covering the house’s walls with deceased brides. And there is a big tragedy still affects the soul of the house: a daughter kills her family members and commits suicide.So as a normal person, Noemi should cry for help and run as soon as she meets that eerie people, including control freak, demanding Florence, flirting and nasty Virgil, the maids who act like they swore to silence and don’t forget about Howard reminds us of long time zombie extra of Walking Dead ( I think he’s soul-mate of woman in bath in Shining!) And only normal person of the family is naïve, artistic, shy son of Florence: Francis who loves to talk about fungus.I’m not gonna give much spoiler but this riveting, heart shattering, blood freezing, scary book has so many alerting elements including ghosts, sleepwalking, violence, bloodshed, disgusting and extreme vulgarity. It’s so different from the first book of the author but if you ask my opinion that did I enjoy it? Of course I truly did! I tested my pain endurance levels. I screamed a lot and I was flabbergasted, speechless at some chapters. And ending, yes it’s volatile, blasting but also satisfying.This means… here comes another gazillion five stars. But quick note: when you’re reading this book, don’t try to eat your mushroom pizza as like I did. I don’t like to write what happened to me afterwards…This is SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO twisted, unexpected, gory, exhilarating! I don’t know a sequel comes after that! But if author decides to write it, I’d be happily to consume it without thinking a second!Sooooo much special thanks to NetGalley and Random House Publishing/Ballantine for sharing this fantastic ARC and making my wish come true in exchange my honest review. And I personally congratulate Silvia Moreno-Garcia for this heart throbbing, extra ordinary book.bloginstagramfacebooktwitter
3187878447	"I pray I'll see you again. You must come for me, Noemí. You have to save me."WHEW. You think you know where this book is going, and then it goes there. Mexican Gothic begins in such an unassuming way, where you think you're walking into a traditional haunted house story, and then everything shifts to pull you under like a riptide that doesn't loosen until you turn the final page. Before I dive into my review, I think it's fair to note that the majority of this book is atmospheric, character driven, and the slowest burn imaginable; for me, this worked spectacularly well, as I love to feel completely absorbed into the narrative in horror novels. And yes friends, this is most definitely a horror novel. I'll include content warnings in a spoiler tag below for those who are interested. "Noemí's father said she cared too much about her looks and parties to take school seriously, as if a woman could not do two things at once."Maybe the reason why this slow burn worked so well for me is because I instantly connected with Noemí; she is confident, intelligent, and the life of the party. When her father receives a suspicious letter from Noemí's cousin, Catalina, he sends Noemí to investigate and report back. As expected, everyone involved gets more than they bargained for, and what begins as a handful of unusual occurrences slowly morphs into a whirlwind of horrifying circumstances."This house, she was sure, was haunted. She wasn't one for believing in things that go bump in the night either, but right that second she firmly felt every spook and demon and evil thing might be crawling about the earth, like in Catalina's stories."One of the things I loved the most about this story is how vastly different the haunted house felt. The author has successfully blended the traditional aspects of the old, decrepit, ghost filled residence and a new, more modern aspect, one I won't go into detail of for fear of spoiling the big twist. I think she nailed it on the head when she stated in her Goodreads interview that this book is for the reader who is both classy and trashy, because it has the high entertainment value that fast fiction lovers rejoice in, but it is also filled with beautifully devastating prose. If you, too, have a love affair with all things that go bump in the night, Mexican Gothic should be your top priority this summer. I cannot recommend this book highly enough to those who have a desire to spend long hours in a derelict house and an iron stomach. "The truth was she was afraid of going to bed, of what nightmares might uncoil in the dark. What did people do after witnessing the horrors they had seen? Was it possible to slip back into normality, to play pretend and go on? She wanted to think this was exactly the case, but she was afraid sleep would prove her wrong."*Content Warning: (view spoiler)[Sexual assault, incest, murder and gore, cannibalism, themes challenging white supremacy and eugenics, discussions surrounding the death of a parent and other family members, miscarriages and stillbirths, discussions surrounding suicide, and the consumption of alcohol and smoking. (hide spoiler)]*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.
3432654135	For as intriguing as it is, immersive it is not. This tale is bizzare and fascinating in its monotony, and in the second half there lies the charm—or the problem, depending on how you look at it.The book operates on the classic trope of isolated old creaky mansion complete with its misty private cemetery and ‘eccentrically macabre’ family. On the surface, the Doyles look like a harmless and orderly household, but the peculiarity rests (literally) within the walls of the house—its secrets and history, the mind twisting effects it has on the people living inside it.The characters are described a certain way, and for the most part they are unchanging. I didn’t like Noemí. Someone needs to introduce her to the proverb “when in Rome do as the Romans do” cause she’s annoyingly nonchalant, rude, nosy, distrustful, and sometimes acts like a brat in a place that’s not her home. I had a mild crush on Francis, and I also kinda had the hots for Virgil . . . which I know how not right that sounds considering he’s a creep LOL.Howard is a disgusting old man, just ew! It’s a shame that Catalina is such a passive character when she’s the reason for Noemí’s visit in the first place.There’s the barest hint of romance, but its unclear presence makes it pointless. The plot doesn’t take flight until the last 30% to 40% of the book. When it does, it veers into such unexpected direction that it’ll leave you flabbergasted. Because of this drastic shift, it feels like reading two different books where one (the first half) is a tedious mystery/suspense and another (the second half) is an absurd supernatural—borderline fantasy—horror.The book is set in 1950s Mexico, but the only thing that reflects that is Noemí’s sense of fashion. The Doyles are an English family, and the majority of the book takes place inside the mansion. There are some passing commentary on eugenics, the Revolution, race and gender injustices, etc that aren’t meant to be thought provoking but serve as some sort of ‘ornamentation’ as they lack depth.In other words, the Mexican culture isn’t prominently realised through the setting nor it is affirmed by the characters. The book could’ve been set in any time period and it wouldn’t have made any difference.I’d considered why I wasn’t as enamored and mesmerised as the majority of GR readers seemed to be, and I decided it was because I didn’t vibe with the writing. It’s easy to follow, but it’s also . . . dry. The book goes so far as utilizing disturbing themes and graphic scenes, but they are never truly felt. The whole experience for me was like NOT peering through a pair of 3D glasses. (Read as an Audiobook)
3619996994	A dark, chilling atmosphere. A spirited heroine. And a house that never lets its inhabitants go. Sometimes a book hits all the right notes for me, and Mexican Gothic certainly did that.It starts off with socialite Noemí receiving a cryptic and rambling letter from her newlywed cousin Catalina, hinting that all was not well. Noemí decides to visit her and sets off for the remote estate where Catalina now lives with her new husband and his family. Once there, she immediately becomes plagued with troubling visions and dreams. And as she digs around, she starts to realize that the house and its strange inhabitants are hiding secrets that could ensnare her in their traps.This story is so moody and atmospheric. There is a chill that permeates the pages, making for a deliciously dark and creepy read. Many books promise this, but in my experience, so few actually deliver, with most falling into silly and eye-rolling territory. But this story got it spot-on. I just wanted to huddle in a comfy blanket with a hot cup of tea, and turn the pages as fast as I could.The initial pages drew me into the story immediately. From then on, I was riveted, though the middle did slow down a bit in pacing. But then we reach the end, and it was as rewarding and as fun as I could have hoped. I always love a strong, feisty female, so Noemí was right up my alley. I found myself chuckling at her witty comebacks and cheering at her refusal to back down. One thing I particularly appreciate is that this story attempts to offer a comprehensive explanation for what's going on. It's always disappointing when a tantalizing set up is so good or so outrageous that it can't possibly be explained, so the book proceeds to handwave all previous clues away. But in this case, an explanation that's both unusual and interesting is provided that ties it all together, and as we slowly learn of it throughout the story, it's quite satisfying.This is the second book I've read by Moreno-Garcia, and I've really enjoyed both. She has definitely become a must-read author for me, and I can't wait to see more from her.~~~~~~~~~~~~See also, my thoughts on:Gods of Jade and ShadowVelvet Was the Night~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧
3441491830	Guys I'm sorry to say this but......what a dumb fucking book.I was moments away from abandoning it halfway through (although I wanted to earlier if we're being honest) but I took to Goodreads to see what I was missing, why it was getting such outstanding reviews. The word on the street was 'YES it was totally boring and slow for the first 2/3, but the twist makes it totally worth it.' So, if you came to this review page because you're thinking maybe it's worth your time, I'm here to tell you - it's not. In fact, let me tell you what the twist is, since you're obviously a curious person.-SPOILER APPROACHING-It's the fungus. The Doyle family is tied to the house because they breathe in the black mold and ingest funky mushrooms in order to kinda become immortal. And they're all connected through it and they can never escape from the house and the oldest patriarch is able to control his family's actions because he is King of the Fungus. Remember M. Night's The Happening and how disappointed and outraged the audience was when they found out it was the trees? YEA. For the record, that plot "twist" still doesn't play out. But don't worry, because the house burns down and all the evil is eradicated (or is it????), a writing trope that is totally original with no story ever ending that way. Noemi, our lead, was completely unlovable. The writing was repetitive and fraught with dragging, unnecessary detail. When the plot finally started moving (200 pages in), I was so beyond over the whole situation that I didn't care.I don't get it x 34754. And I'm not normally so effusively cruel, but I just don't want some innocent reader to make the same mistake I did. As we all say, there are too many good books out there. Oh, did I mention the fungus?
3610210778	An atmospheric Gothic horror novel that goes the extra mile with featuring women of color as the protagonists and incorporating race, colonialism, and eugenics as part of the horror. I enjoyed Noemi's flighty and outspoken nature as well; she’s easy to root for as she stands her own against the antagonists.
3601869623	I never got around to reviewing this book because I was disappointed.It started good and I really wanted to love it but I lost interest before the end and the ending didn't change my mind.
3388035780	Congratulations on winning GOODREADS CHOICE AWARDS5*I AM SHIT SCARED*Stars.✨ there was something so charming and beautiful about the cover that drew me towards it! (I mean just look at this stunning cover and think how beautiful it will look in your bookshelf)I honestly don’t like Gothic books, it’s like my second Gothic book (after a failed attempt to read Wuthering heights for like 1000 times.) and ohhh boyyy I freaking loved it. Like a 5 star rating is less to describe how much I loved this book!Once in a while a book is published that you can’t stop thinking about and you keep pursuing your kith and kin to read it, this is one such book for me. DISCLAIMER: - DON’T READ THIS BOOK AT NIGHT IF YOU HAVE A VIVID IMAGINATION .WHY?Because it will scare the shit out of you, you will be afraid of your own shadow, it will make your blood run cold, your soul will jump out of your skin, your heart will miss a beat and you will be scared out of your wits! But at the same time there is something so beautiful about its creepiness that you will find it engrossing, captivating, absorbing, riveting, consuming and addictive that you not be able to put it down despite the fact that it scared the daylights out of you!!!!The phenomenal idea of blending the old, nasty and haunted house stories with the modern aspect of eugenics, Darwin’s theory of natural selection, concept of inferior and superior traits and that whole idea of fungal association with humans forming gloom, I mean I have read about symbiosis and mycorrhiza but wtf is this, I mean who in right mind can think this! The author is crazy (good crazy).*adding author to fav authors list.(well not yet maybe!)*adding book to my fav book list. SOME OTHER ASPECTS THAT MAKE THE BOOK LOVABLE• Atmospheric :- the beautiful picture the author paints of the high place will make you fall in love with the place despite the fact that you can’t leave it.• Characters :- the confident, intelligent and life of the party Noemi, artistic, shy and lover of mushrooms Francis ,flirting, nasty and dangerous Virgil , controlling ,demandingFlorence and head of the house MR. DOYLE( let’s just leave him, mere thinking about his name give me chills) .• Slowest burning romance• dicey situation and twists This is the first book by this author and it’s definitely not going to be the last. She owns my heart and head (mentally decided to read everything written by her)And definitely going to reread this book again and again till it stops scaring the shit out of me and ik that’s never going to happen..I can’t wait for the day I will be able to buy this book and take in the smell of it, the day this beautiful piece of art will adore my bookshelf!Not recommend for everyone because you need patience if you truly want to enjoy the book because its slow paced in first half but it’s worth it because the second half will make you fall in love with this book!TW:- sexual assault, incest, murder, cannibalism, death of parent, death of children, stillbirth, miscarriage.
3614760187	"Books, moonlight, melodrama." Noemí's cousin (Catalina) recently married into an incredibly well-to-do family, which should be cause for celebration...only Catalina sends a very distressing letter.She begs Noemí to come to her new home and save her - but from what, she does not specify. Noemí is a bit hesitant - she spends more time at cocktail parties than on rescue missions - but for Catalina, she's willing to do just about anything.But when she arrives to the creepy house...she quickly realizes that things aren't quite what they seem. There's a strangeness about this new family, the house seems to be hiding something and there's something off about Catalina as well. "The world might indeed be a cursed circle; the snake swallowed its tail and there could be no end, only an eternal ruination and endless devouring." Will Noemí rescue her cousin in time? Or will the both of them be lost to the house forever? "You’re very silly or very brave, living in a haunted house." To be frank - this one was GORGEOUS. The atmosphere, the setting, the characters - I was swept away. Seriously, the setting of this one really stole the show. The beautiful (and haunted) Mexican countryside, the creepy-yet-stunning house, the way all of the little details wove together - loved it!!I also really enjoyed the plot in this one - it was slow, but in a well-paced sort of way. I liked how much attention the author gave to the little things, and the way Noemí interacted and reacted to the various plot points. Overall, I really enjoyed my time between these pages!YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
3608258702	As an allegory for colonization and its impact on the colonized, this is stunning and gorgeous and I enjoy analyzing it in spare moments, like when I'm tired of working or am eating a cookie that is not so delicious as to require my full attention or am in the shower.As a story in and of itself, I did not enjoy it. But who cares.The writing style of this was pretty stilted, in my opinion (and I kept catching myself doing that nightmarish thing where I feel obligated to rewrite awkward sentences), but again - basically beside the point.Weird that in many ways this was absolutely not my cup of tea, and yet there's no way I'd even consider giving it under four stars.Bottom line: I love a text I can really think about!!-------------spooky season spooky season spooky season spooky season spooky season spooky season
3614661943	i now hate mushrooms more than i already dooh, also this book was greatnoemí rights
3507238671	well, wasnt this just a spooky little story?! i knew i should have saved this for next month.fans of gothic stories will swoon over this. its so atmospheric. the old mansion, the creepy family who lives there, the lush mexican countryside. i was honestly really, really enjoying myself up until the near end.the turn of events were a little too… unrealistic for me, i suppose. i wanted to gasp in shock but i ended up just rolling my eyes. i know the way things play out wont bother some readers, and it does fit the feel/vibe of the story, but something about it all was underwhelming for me. which is why im not rating this higher.but again, gothic fans will love and this and i have no problem recommending this to people wanting the spooky autumnal feel. ↠ 3.5 stars
3250395117	4.75/5 ⭐Full review on my blog: The Dacian She-Wolf 🐺Uh.Wow. I wasn’t expecting this to go in that direction.Colour me impressed. Mexican Gothic is the second book I read by Silvia Moreno-Garcia (the other one being Gods of Jade and Shadow ). All I can say is that even though I liked that book too, this one was so much better.It’s. So. Good.And I mean it.Yes, it started slow. Very slow. Bordering-painful slow. I didn’t actually think that I was going to enjoy it this much after that beginning but after a while, the action started to pick up a bit of speed to a crazy rate and the creepiness that I was promised popped out just as it should. And I loved that with my whole black soul.It turned out to be intelligent and supernatural and I honestly appreciate it even more, thinking of it in retrospective. “They said, in dusty little towns around the country, that witches could turn into balls of fire and fly through the air.” The title of the book is in perfect harmony with the constructed world and atmosphere, containing the essence of the book and the approached theme.There are several symbols scattered around the book – the leitmotif being the snake biting its own tail and its hidden meaning.Psychological and parapsychological elements are also in a fair amount exposed along the plotline as well as elements and ideas of anthropological, botanical and mystical matter; Freudian theories too. So, mainly, twisted beliefs and actions (because let’s be real, Freud wasn’t entirely right in the head).I had a hard time dealing with the characters, but I do believe that this was the whole idea of it.The main character, Noemí, was at first the little spoiled brat, daddy’s little wild girl who got away with everything and I thought I wasn’t going to enjoy this. But slowly she changed and I somehow realised that she wasn’t that bad after all.I, however, couldn’t deal with the Doyle family. Each and every one of them was stepping on my sensitive nerves because they were terribly obnoxious and I felt like throwing up every single time one of them was taking in a breath and then they let it out. Couldn’t they hold that in there until they turned blue?I do get that this was their point, but ugh.Collectively, they had superiority complexes, god complexes, racist ideals and twisted rules to follow, disgusting – perfect eradication material. They awoke in me a feeling of deep hatred that I haven’t felt in a while. And they deserved every bit of it.All of them – except one: Francis.He was so obviously put there to suffer. And he accepted his fate. And that, in my opinion, was so sad and unfair. He was such a gentle heart, awkward and passionate about things like mushrooms and plants. He was unusual, uncomfortable, but all he ever needed was a bit of love and appreciation. A bit of freedom.Francis reminded me of a Tim Burton character. That’s the impression he had on me. I could be wrong, but who cares? The portrait is already in my head.*oops*After page 200 (with a great deal of approximation on my part) everything turns into a bleeding mess. One character in particular starts even having serious daddy fantasies – which, pardon me, is disturbing.Everything gets sicker and sicker by the page, everything rushed and heart-pounding murderous. Nothing is normal anymore, nothing is easy to deal anymore, nothing and no one is sane anymore. It actually gave me some slight The Shining vibes, but maybe that was just me, who knows?All in all, that was a very interesting book to experience – the ending was indeed on fast-forward at some point, but then the action hit the breaks and at the very ending, there was a somehow happy ending that I was – purely honest – waiting for.For real now, don’t you love it when there’s a happy ending after a slightly traumatic experience?
3057308657	Maybe a 2.5 STARS?Mexican Gothic held so much promise but couldn’t quite deliver its gory, on-the-edge-of-my-seat gothic thriller I thought I would receive. While the premise was fascinating and sucked me right in, I had to drag my way through the initial 1/3 of the novel before I finally found myself in the groove of the story.One of Mexican Gothic’s biggest weakness was the fact that we always stayed pretty surface level in terms of characterization and plot. Noemí shows up at High Place in hopes of checking in on her cousin, the driving force of the plot, who claimed this cryptic family she married into was hurting her, but we never actually get to know her cousin besides some superficial facts about her. I would have loved to have heard stories from her to learn more about her experiences in the High Place, but instead, she is pushed to the background of the plot and only appears a handful of times.Also, I have to say that the romance wasn’t necessary to the plotline. There was little to no chemistry between the two characters who fall for one another during dire circumstances, and for once, I have to admit that their romance wasn’t believable nor was it very interesting to read.I was very excited for Mexican Gothic, but I’m sad to say that the story fell flat for me and failed to deliver. I simply wasn’t intrigued by the story, the writing style was tough to get through, and the characters were very 1 dimensional, leaving space between me, the reader, and the story that I wish could have sucked me in. READ MY FULL REVIEW HERE: StoriesForCoffee.com
6122672020	‘Our bodies hide so many mysteries and they tell so many stories without a single word.’There are novels about haunted houses and then there are novels that feel like a haunted house themselves. Mexican Gothic from Silvia Moreno-Garcia is the latter, engulfing the reader in the dark, twisted corridors of plot amidst an almost choking atmosphere of dread and decay. It is a slow-burn of a narrative, not unlike the way one shuffles forward in trepidation through a haunted house, the burning glow of a candle our only light. But beyond that, Mexican Gothic is a horror of history, weaving a bloody legacy of colonialism and the repression of women through this ghastly tale of a house that might be consuming minds and bodies. Drawing on a long history of the gothic tradition but with a fresh and fierce twist, Moreno-Garcia creates a postcolonialist horror that delivers as many social criticisms as it does scares and shrieks.‘ She wasn't one for believing in things that go bump in the night either, but right that second she firmly felt every spook and demon and evil thing might be crawling about the earth…’Call me late to the party, but I finally understand all the hype. Having recently been impressed by Moreno-Garcia’s The Lover I was recommended this by emma griffioen! and her wonderful review and found this to be a dark delight. The story moves slowly, picking up dread all along the way and is just a feast of atmosphere and tone. It is also highly cinematic and I’m shocked this isn’t already a film. There are a lot of similarities between this and What Moves the Dead by T. Kingfisher, something Kingfisher acknowledges in the intro to that book, though they both stand apart quite well and make a very different use of their shared evil.‘The walls speak to me. They tell me secrets. Don’t listen to them, press your hands against your ears, Noemí. There are ghosts. They’re real.’I enjoy the way Mexican Gothic superimposes a traditional English gothic narrative trope over a Mexican landscape which, thematically, already implies an aspect of colonialism in the narrative. This is a tale of how the Doyle family legacy is one of violence and power, where even their self-mythologizing about providing the town with jobs and money—at the expense of strapping the town forever in their debt and service—can’t erase the real bodies buried in their wake. Moreno-Garcia touches on the aspects of relying on the aid of indigenous peoples before massacring them to steal their resources and land. One should not be surprised history would return to haunt, though Moreno-Garcia offers an unexpected twist where it isn’t their sins returning to haunt them but instead the sins growing hungrier for more…‘Loyalty to the family is rewarded, and impertinence is punished.’The patriarchal legacy is also a source of evil casting a long shadow across the novel as well as a threat of immediate danger in the way it has found to perpetuate itself from generation to generation. It is one shown to rule through violence and repression (and some sci-fi help too), and Noemí—who is an excellent character both capable and feisty—is an excellent counterpoint to it all. ‘Noemí's father said she cared too much about her looks and parties to take school seriously, as if a woman could not do two things at once,’ we are told, and we see how she aims to be able to be the best of both worlds. Though her struggles for education and independence are always beset by the patriarchal forces and we see the clear double standards held against women.‘She thought that men such as her father could be stern and men could be cold like Virgil, but women needed to be liked or they’d be in trouble. A woman who is not liked is a bitch, and a bitch can hardly do anything: all avenues are closed to her.’This all plays into a sense of gaslighting that occurs in the novel, with Catalina and Ruth being a sort of play on the “madwoman in the attic” trope of gothic fiction, or, most notably, the way it was addressed as a post-colonial work in Jean Rhys’ Wide Sargasso Sea. Though the yellow mold in Noemí room also seems to hint at another work of feminist fiction: The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.‘In a sense all dreams foretell events, but some more clearly than others.’This book was impossible to put down and offers a lot of legit chills and thrills. It does use dreams fairly heavily as narrative trope which I often don’t particularly enjoy, though it does integrate itself quite well into the story and horror elements and also functions as a vessel to see the way the past and present are haunted by each other.‘The truth was she was afraid of going to bed, of what nightmares might uncoil in the dark. What did people do after witnessing the horrors they had seen? Was it possible to slip back into normality, to play pretend and go on? She wanted to think this was exactly the case, but she was afraid sleep would prove her wrong.’This all moves towards a rather incredible ending and the slowburn of the narrative almost feels like foreshadowing for the rather amazing climatic scene. And, in the face of colonialism and violent patriarchy, who hasn’t wanted it all to burn? The novel does turn a bit from the gothic to a more modern style horror in the later sections, though it flows pretty smoothly and the twist is an excellent symbol of the ways patriarchal legacies are parasitical on the communities they repress. This was quite the ride. The homage to the history of the gothic but in a way that represents a reaction to colonialism and a path to the future—the progressive woman of color valuing education and independence rising over the legacy of a white patriarchy repressing the working class. Mexican Gothic is a haunted house of history where every page lures you deeper into its catacombs and it is a journey I would definitely recommend.4.5/5‘The world might indeed be a cursed circle; the snake swallowed its tail and there could be no end, only an eternal ruination and endless devouring.’
3312066671	Okay... I had no business picking up this book. Don’t let the beautiful cover and enchanting title fool you. This is a true HORROR novel. 😬😱🤮 This is not a genre I read, because I’m a big baby with gore and... I don’t know... eating babies 😳 o.m.f.g. 🤦🏼‍♀️ sprinkle in sexual assault and description of black oozing boils on the skin 🤢 I honestly can’t believe I made it through this whole thing. Happy Haunting Month! 🎃
3501070516	i loved this a lot! <3 Blog | Instagram | Youtube | Ko-fi | Spotify | TwitchThis was our October 2020 pick for the Dragons and Tea Book Club! 🐉☕
3703192979	The journey of Noemí Taboada to help her newly-wed cousin, Catalina, in the Mexican countryside is ensnared with love, lust, betrayal, and some extreme unchartered territories that no one must have ever dreamt about. Was her boldness enough to face the situations which were beyond her wildest dreams?The attributes which make this novel creepy and scary are not the haunting gothic manor or the "incestuous monsters and their toadies" or the extraordinary depiction of the fungi that will keep the most talented mycologists staggered. The facet that makes it creepy is the attitude of certain characters who take patriarchy to the next level and consider women as a piece of flesh without any feelings that can be molded to any extend according to their wish. What is to be like a woman? Is it the duty of a woman to be presented in a way always to be liked? Is likability the main quotient for gauging a woman's character? “She wanted to be liked. Perhaps this explained the parties, the crystalline laughter, the well-coiffed hair, the rehearsed smile. She thought that men such as her father could be stern and men could be cold like Virgil, but women needed to be liked or they'd be in trouble. A woman who is not liked is a bitch, and a bitch can hardly do anything: all avenues are closed to her." Are women after marriage any different from before marriage? What mercurial change happens to the women during the marriage? Why are men suddenly changing their attitude towards women after marriage? Is marriage a license granting men to take women for granted? "Marriage could hardly be like the passionate romances one read about in books. It seemed to her, in fact, a rotten deal. Men would be solicitous and well behaved when they courted a woman, asking her out to parties and sending her flowers, but once they married, the flowers wilted." Why are the women considered more responsible for holding the family together? “A women’s function is to preserve the family line.” This novel is raising many questions like this and is trying to answer many of them. This is a novel that can be read in many ways. Some can read it as a horror novel. Some can read in between the lines and search for the hidden, deeper meanings behind each character and how they behave. Silvia Moreno-Garcia managed to pull out a classic novel with a modern projection. It is these multi-dimensional aspects that make this novel unique.————————————————————————— You can also follow me on Instagram ID - Dasfill | YouTube Channel ID - Dasfill | YouTube Health Channel ID - Dasfill - Health | YouTube Malayalam Channel ID - Dasfill - Malayalam | Threads ID - Dasfill | X ID - Dasfill1 | Snapchat ID - Dasfill | Facebook ID - Dasfill | TikTok ID - Dasfill1
3500252836	I was so enjoying this book until the first 60 percent. And then what the hell was that with all that plot concept and the unnecessary repetitive scenes?I mean what the actual beep?The writing is really good. The story started out really good!The characters had a strong mystery vibe surrounding them.It was so good.Until it made me want to kick every microorganism's butt!The explanation for all that's happening is meant to be bizarre, terrifying and creepy.But heck, it didn't deliver in any.It's just that there wasn't a boring moment in the first half and I was totally into the book that I wasn't able to do anything ever since I started reading the book.I wish the plot had a better plot concept and plot twist.It was like I was reading the season 2 of a TV series that no one cares anymore because the first season was a big hit.This book could have ended much, much, much better! I mean I was hooked with all that different mysterious characters, the suspense, the cousin who was hiding a big thing, the mystery vibes and all the fungi, mushroom, mold and creepy housemaids.The last few chapters read like a badly written middle grade mystery book. I seriously cannot believe the book turned out like this 🤦In the end, it turned out to be rather too convenient for the main character. The other characters ended as some kind of joke.They were intimidating at the beginning but I began to see them as Casper (sorry, my cutest ghost love!🤧 I don't know any other nonscary ghost reference!) who were rather annoying and being perverts at best but not terrifying or creepy as they were meant to. The character of Virgil was robotic.The character of Howard was disgusting. Not disgusting good as in fun reading for such kind of books but damn plain disgusting.The character of Catalina was like a bomb which everyone got terrified of but ended up as an almost useless disco ball.And let's not pretend that this character represented Some mental health conditions as the story hinted but no. It didn't and it cannot.And the main character? She was like a totally different person like her mind got switched off from 50 percent of the book onwards. Nothing much happened after that. And I was bored out of my mind towards the end and I just didn't care who that more than a few centuries old pervert was trying to mate with or who Virgil was going to rape. Because it's freaking boring because of the plot reveal. It was really lame to be honest. It just was because of the sudden shift in the writing style. It could have worked out fine but it seems like the author got bored and just had to finish up the book whatsoever.However, I read the book till the last page.But this book left me so disappointed.*TW: incest, sexual assault, strong language, sexist remarks, graphic scenes***One of the worse books with the worse character development because it didn't happen at all.***Worse romance couples in fiction if there's romance at all between Francis and NoemíThe ending was so cringy. Bad cheesy cringy.Bleh!
