155462125	Skippy Dies is a work of genius. Where else could you combine a coming-of-age tale with string theory, ancient Celtic mythology with fart humor, consideration of cultural forgetfulness with Druid drug dealers (say that five times fast), a look at adulthood as a continuation of adolescence with better tools but less hope, substance abuse of sundry sorts, from doughnuts to diet pills, from weed to heroin and cocaine, from sexual predation to the hormonal cravings of early adolescence to self-cutting? It may sound like too much but it all hangs together in its own entire and discrete dimension. Did I say that I laughed out loud many, many times? Did I say that I loved, loved, loved this book? Paul Murray Seabrook College, serving as our societal microcosm, is a six-year school in more-or-less contemporary Ireland, before larcenous corporate entities got all their wishes and left Ireland with an empty pot and no gold at all. Daniel “Skippy” Juster, who does indeed die in an opening scene, is a charming 14-year old with a hankering for a sweet thing named Lori. That is short for Lorelie, so break out your Vah-gner. Howard “The Coward” Fallon, a young teacher in a bad relationship, pines for an alluring substitute named Aurelie, which, I guess, makes her a golden variation on the theme. Can Skippy and/or Howard keep from being dashed on the rocks? The imagery of classical sirens resounds throughout the novel. Ruprecht is Skippy’s genius, overweight roommate. He is very interested in string theory, particularly the notion of a possible eleventh dimension (don’t ask) and concocts experiments to test out his theories. That loud noise you hear might be Ruprecht attempting to transport matter into an alternate dimension. He has tales to tell about his parents, supposedly lost while kayaking in the Amazon. He plays the French Horn as well, and may be a bit too wedded to his analyses.Carl is a troubled Columbine candidate, with a toxic home life and a host of friends one would definitely call the wrong sort. He deals drugs to students, and may sample the product a bit too much. He was obsessed with Lori before Skippy came along. Uh oh.There is also a large cast of wise-cracking boys (mostly) who will definitely tickle your funny bone with their very witty, pun-soaked and profane banter, and creative nicknames for each other and adults as well. (My personal faves were “Pere Vert” for Father Green on the adult side and Kevin “What’s” Wong for student entries) Their conversations and their concerns make them very real, even if we do not spend a lot of time with most of them. For all you boys out there, Skippy offers plenty of scatological humor, although, being a very-over-age adolescent, there can never be quite enough for me. :-) Murray has a keen ear for the rhythm, tone and degrees of snarkiness these kids exude, leading one to think that either he recalls extremely well his time at the actual school on which Seabrook is based, or part of him never graduated.The story opens with Skippy’s demise, then works up to that event from the past. Skippy has a lot to deal with. His swim coach is after him to shape up, for, among other reasons, Skippy is a natural in the pool. He is slack-jawed at the sight of Lori and struggles to establish a relationship with her, all the while being tormented by his romantic rival, the ominous, thuggish and maybe addled Carl. Add to that a mother dying of cancer and a father who can spare him no attention. Have a nice life. Oh, sorry. Once up to Skippy’s passing, the story continues, looking at how both teens and adults cope. I was blown away by this book. I loved the characters, the story was compelling and the payload was considerable. I hated to put the thing down, or in this case, for the battery to run out, as I was reading it on a Nook. There is quite a bit of paralleling here about various sorts of dimensions that exist in close proximity to each other spatially or chronologically. There is a consideration of the Irish role in World War I and the subsequent national attitude about that, as well as how events in one’s personal past can define history on an individual basis, even if they might be somewhat misremembered, whether by design or not. Failure and redemption coexist nicely here. Growth and stasis as well. There is a look into string theory, which is a pretty neat trick, ancient religions and alternate dimensions occupy close turf as well.A school filled with rambunctious teenaged-boys would be incomplete without the predictable evil principal. He remains a cardboard figure here, acting as the designated uber-schmuck to all around him. Think Dean Wormer from Animal House. He also personifies, beyond his cartoonish darkness, a more meaningful bleakness, voicing certain beliefs that most reasonable people would find troubling. There is also a very Snape-like priest, with a dark secret of his own, wandering the halls.You will love Skippy and his bright-light roommate Ruprecht. Murray even gives us reasons to care about some of the unpleasant and damaged people who appear. You will laugh and you will cry. And you will never be able to think of Frost’s The Road Not Taken the same way again. With Skippy Dies Murray has proven, for any who might doubt it, that there is plenty of room for uproarious laughter in a work of great literature. Skippy Dies? I don’t think so. Skippy will live forever.First posted - March 2011PS - This is the review I wish I had written - from the NY TimesHere is anotherI enjoyed the following interview with Murray from The Paris Review
120959026	I'm the product of an Irish Catholic boarding school for boys. In September 1968, at the tender age of 11, I left the warm (over-)protective bosom of home and family -- not just one, but two grandmothers, and a housekeeper to fuss over me while my mother saw patients -- and became one of the 80 or so boys in the first year class at a Franciscan boarding school, about 25 miles north of Dublin, and 160 miles from home. The experience, particularly the first year, was incredibly brutal*. But it was also entirely necessary, and completely transformative. I can trace back almost all of what I consider to be my defining character traits to that first year at Gormanston. I wouldn't consider the time I spent at boarding school the "best years" of my life, but it was definitely formative. The survival strategies I learned there pretty much set the pattern for the rest of my life.So I approached Skippy Dies with reservations, and a certain amount of trepidation. The defining characteristic of life in a boys' boarding school is tedium - would Paul Murray be able to capture the tedium accurately and still write an interesting book? Would reading it stir up a bunch of memories best left undisturbed? And could the book possibly live up to the considerable hype that it has generated?It turned out to be pretty amazing. Paul Murray does indeed get boarding school life down right - he completely nails it. His more significant accomplishment is to have written a book whose appeal transcends the specificity of its setting. Skippy Dies is a sprawling, ambitious doorstopper of a book, with an extensive cast of characters (jocks, nerds, priests, lay teachers, parents, drug dealers, psychopaths), not unlike a Dickens story. Fortunately, Murray has the skill to bring these assorted character to life and to tell a story that grabs and keeps the reader's interest. The main focus of the book is to present the events that led up to the death of 14 year old Skippy and to explore its effect on the school community. Along the way, Murray considers a huge variety of disparate themes, ranging from string theory to ancient Irish burial mounds to trench warfare in World War I. Not to mention the pervasive adolescent obsession with sex. At times it seems as if these are mere digressions in a book that's already quite hefty, but the author knows what he's about, and pulls the various threads of his tapestry together to a powerful and satisfying conclusion. With so many balls in the air, you keep expecting him to crash and burn, but he doesn't -- the writing is superb throughout, the story never flags, you don't want it to stop and are a little bit sad when it does. What do we ask of a good novel? A question with as many answers as readers (a pointless question if you live in Toronto and are called Buck). I take a slightly old-fashioned view. If an author can create a vividly imagined world, make me care about his characters, and tell a good story that moves me, then I'm a happy camper. Paul Murray does all of these things in this terrific book, and does them so brilliantly that the story transcends the specificity of its particular milieu. Other reviewers have suggested that the book is likely to appeal only to male readers - I couldn't disagree more.This is a terrific book. The Man Booker judges should hang their heads in shame for their failure to include it on this year's shortlist.*factors that worked against me included my age (at least 2 years younger than anyone else in my class), my generally spastic performance at all sports (even more unforgivable was my unwillingness to even pretend to care about sports) and - fatally - showing up on the first day only to realize that I was the only kid in the school still outfitted in short pants. I might as well have had a "KICK ME" sign around my neck - my mother carried her guilt about this rare misstep with her to her grave.
469165445	skippy dies on the first page of this book.then there are 600 pages of buildup and aftermath.it has been compared to Infinite Jest,which i can see, but i also feel it is a good companion-piece to The Instructions. all three of these books (IJ only in part) focus on adolescents who are in school/boarding school environments that use genuinely funny (as opposed to manipulative-funny) humor to offset the horrors of youth and its incipient discoveries. they all have elements of the absurd, of the near-slapstick spectacle, and each book's action revolves around a troubled holden caulfield-type of character whose actions propel the narrative. in the instructions, the characters all revolve around gurion, and infinite jest, the characters satellite hal. but what further links all these books, to my mind, is the strength of the supporting characters. i am trying not to digress too much into a discussion of the comparison-pieces, so i will try to focus on the characters in this one here.mario is fantastic, in his would-be lothario role, and there is something that should be gross but in this book is very funny, about a bunch of virgin boys sitting around and talking/boasting about sex. it is like when tobias talks about "the clatter" of his wife's breasts.you just want to kind of pat them on the head, until you realize they are staring at your chest and you have to slowly back away.dennis is another favorite of mine. he is so cynically realistic, so already-figured-it-out, you can't help but feel sympathy for him and recognize that his acerbity is a response to what shiny youth-hope he has already shrugged off.ruprecht, obviously.but the best are the scenes with all the boys together. their banter, their rapid-fire patter, the casually innocent homophobic remarks and endless dick-jokes of boys at that age, the "your mom" jokes, the giggling over the word "mound." (okay, i giggled, too.)standout moments: patrick "da knowledge" noonan and eoin "MC sexecutioner" flynn's audition for the school concert. i spoil-tag it, because i think it is nice to have the option.(view spoiler)[ The boys mount the stage, gold chains clinking, and spend the next few moments slouching back and forth, mumbling mysteriously to themselves. Then, to an enormous, naked drumbeat that explodes from Sexecutioner's ghettoblaster to rock the entire hall, they begin to bounce around the boards, making inscrutable hand signals, their vast trousers flapping about them like sails, and Knowledge grabs the mike: 'I got X-ray EYES, but she's wearin lead PANTS, so I got to get her BOOTY wi-''Next!' The judgement issues summarily from the review panel before Sexecutioner has even had a chance to drop his first 'motherfucker.' For a moment, the boys remain rooted to the spot in ungangsta-like attitudes of woundedness, mocked by the drumbeat that is still thumping around them; then, unplugging the ghettoblaster, they clamber down and make the walk of shame to the exit.'What in God's name was that?' the Automator says as soon as they have left.Trudy peers down at her clipboard. "original material.""Our old friend original material," the Automator says grimly. (hide spoiler)]which is funny enough, just in the wide-eyed belief that this material would be suitable for a concert at a catholic boy's school, but the real hearttwist comes, for me, when the program(me) is announced:'Did we get in?' Eoin 'MC Sexecutioner' Flynn asks anxiously, stuck at the back of the crowd examining the board.Patrick 'Da Knowledge' Noonan scans the list again, then, scowling, turns away. 'No.''We didn't?' Eoin is shocked.'What did you expect, man?' Patrick throws up his hands at him. 'Take a look at the programme, it's wall-to-wall Whitey!'ah, the sweet optimism of youth. and the sweet racial dysmorphia, as both eoin and patrick are unhappily white themselves.obviously the dance is another great moment, and what the dance devolves into, but those are the big show-stopping scenes. there are also amazing quiet scenes, like the fear of jelly. and more serious matters, like tom's secret, and what it does to howard, and the criminal way it is handled by the school, and just the fact that the situation subverts expectations in a surprising way, and then allows those expectations to play out to a conclusion in a way which perpetrates those expectations to the public-at-large without justice. this makes no sense if you haven't read the book, and probably maybe even no sense to you if you have, because i am trying to dance around the spoiler-flames here, and it's too juicy to spoiler-tag, because i know you people are drawn to those like a trail of breadcrumbs.but - god - for all its humor, this book is so freaking sad. it's about all the Big Things, like how we never really know anybody, or appreciate the ones we should, about the disconnect that occurs between adolescence and adulthood, about the wide-eyed optimism of youth that slowly gets stripped away. about betrayal and the inability to confess, to communicate, to speak. this is probably where the connection to infinite jest is the strongest; the wounded shutting-down.and then all the ways we try to cope with life:drugs, romance, grasping at straws, charity, music, science, cutting, anorexia, pregnancy - anything to try to feel or to escape. (also very IJ-y)it would be a bleak little book if not for the sheer lyrical momentum of it. paul murray's got a great sense of pacing, both in the unspooling of the story, and in the tonal pacing. it is never allowed to get too bleak or too frivolous - he manages the mood very well.it's true that the female characters in this book kind of get the short end of the stick. (this is not meant to be a "penis envy" joke) they are less characters as stand-ins for ideals, mostly just there to embody the robert graves-idea of the white goddess and the black goddess;their role is just to affect the male characters, but this doesn't really hinder the story, unless you are someone for whom "the way females are represented" takes precedence over, you know, the story itself.this is a great book, and one that is hard to review. it perfectly describes the conflicting teenage desires to grow up, while still clinging to brittle vestiges of innocence, and then flipsides it with the adult characters and their painfully-familiar nostalgia over their own lost youth, all in a bigger story about the search for truth in history and in present-day life.there are so many elements i didn't even get to touch on: celtic mythology, the dark shadow of carl, donuts, scary drug dealers, pop music tarts... i encourage you to read it and tell me what else i forgot to even mention.oh, and spoiler: skippy dies.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
207755262	Q: Oh, what's this? I don't quite understand. As I recall you said a few derogatory things about Skippy Dies when you were on p 120 and even by p 250 you weren't dancing in the streets and giving out free copies, and yet, here we see five fat stars sitting there, I counted them, and as I understand it that's the maximum number you can award, so what accounts for this seeming change of heart and are you a little ashamed of your original remarks? Would you wish to do a little public recanting?A : Yes, well, thank you for reminding me, but may I say that this brilliant novel is a very slow burner which gradually changes its character from – may I say? – relentless, verging on annoying, schoolboy humour (it's set in a posh school) into horror, terror, cruelty, you know, the whole nine yards of human experience, it's right here. Did I say it's brilliant? But you do need a little patience. And I would like to thank all of the people on this site who wrote great reviews (Paquita, Krok Zero and David Giltinan for instance) and those who told me to carry on. Thank you.Q: So what was that thing you were telling me about Romeo and Juliet and Truman Capote? I wasn't really listening – you can go on at times you know.A: Oh well, the title, you see, Skippy Dies, plus the very first couple of pages, in which Skippy actually dies, gives the central event of the book – 661 pages long – completely away. So it's like Romeo & Juliet where the prologue tells you A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;Whose misadventured piteous overthrowsDo with their death bury their parents' strifeSee? it gives away the whole plot immediately. Also, in Truman Capote's best story Children on Their Birthdays he tells you that the amazing Miss Lily Jane Bobbitt will be run over by a bus in the first paragraph. First you think – how can this device work? But it does.Q: What were you saying about how long it was? I mean it's actually really bloody long isn't it. A: I was saying that it's 661 pages and not a page too long! Because it's like the way Jonathan Franzen makes his last two novels work. He gets his family and he starts filling in all the details, and one thing leads on very naturally to the next, so that there's kind of a plot but it's more like the plot in your own life, i.e. doesn't feel like a plot, and in Skippy, Paul Murray fills in the school and a few of the the foul-mouthed boys and their teachers and it's like a giant canvas, which bit shall I add in today, how about some trees here and a car crash there, and lots of drugs over here, and some horrible sex behind that car park. Not that there's any other resemblance between Mr Franzen and Mr Murray, it's just a kind of technique thing which for me works magnificently.Q: I heard you ranting on about the Booker as usual. What's that got to do with the price of a pound of artichokes?A: Skippy made the 2010 Booker long list – that's all. Not even the short list. I mean, what? What's that all about? Also, it made the Costa Prize shortlist but didn't win. Maggie O'Farrell won both damned prizes for The Hand that First held Mine. So now I can't read that one because I'd be reading through the clenched teeth of resentment. Q: If you could pick one reason why you thought this was so fivestarry, what would...that...reason...beeeee...? Mmmm? And can I have the last piece of carrot cake? A: This is a book about youth culture which in Britain is a phrase often pronounced sardonically in Estuary English like this :Yoof cowchaYou could add an equally sardonic "innit" for extra effect, as in :"It's yoof cowcha, innit"I've complained in other reviews that often when there are actual young characters in novels the dialogue sounds like the author is one of those elderly uncles still trying to crack on that he's down with the kids and hip to the beat on the street, with toe curling results. Skippy Dies gets everything note perfect. Paul Murray knows what boys talk like. It's almost like he was one not very long ago. I enjoyed the total beyond-fetishising beyond-obsession centrality of the mobile phone. I enjoyed the mad disjunction between all the stuff in the boys' heads (love! Sex! Science!) and the actual reality they inhabit (being jerked around! Bad blowjobs! Stupid experiments which fail!). I enjoyed the vitality and boundless fizzing onrushing prose which Paul Morris brings to the subject of wretchedness and bleak betrayal. Q: One last thing – who was your favourite character?A: Mario, the 14 Year old Italian-Irish would-be stallion, who is consistently good value. Regarding the upcoming Hallowe'en Hop, for instance, he says: "I don't know about you guys, but I am planning to score a lot of bitches at this Hop. Probably I will start with one really hot girl, straight sex, no frills. Then I will have a sixty-nine. Then it will be time for a threesome."To summarise : Skippy Dies - believe the hype.
3533572576	High school life apparently sucks. So does this book.10 Things I Hate About You, Skippy Dies(1) Nihilistic misery porn is never my favorite. Too bitter and sour to the taste, and lacking richness. Strange that people love to eat this stuff up. Isn't the world grotesque and maudlin enough to satisfy any hunger people may have for dying-inside despair? Ugh. Obnoxious books like this one are only looking at the trash side of the world, refusing to see anything that doesn't fit into their points of view. Joyless novels that pretend to portray real life make me break out.(2) I get it that high school really sucked for a lot of people. I get it, I get it. My experience wasn't everyone's experience. But was it and is it truly hell on earth for everyone involved, students and teachers alike - literally all the time? That's the perspective of this epic (fail). It's some kind of achievement to be able to write a 600+ page book that manages to remain so one-note. Reverse-kudos and a Pelosi clap for the author. Paul Murray, I'm sorry that you hated high school, but I also don't think you needed to write an entire book about how much you hated high school and how you think everyone else did too. And how you think both high school and life itself are just a real waste of time. When your thesis is that high school - and being alive - is pure torture for everyone involved, that unimaginative thesis gets an F.(3) The supporting characters are flat caricatures. It's like the author decided to give them one attribute and then ran with that attribute for 600+ pages. There's the kid who is cynical, the kid who speaks in a zombie voice, the kid who is Italian, the kid who insists she's pregnant. Etc. For a book so big, its ability to bring to life what should have been a vital supporting cast of teenagers is so, so small. Small talent at characterization and a large amount of small-mindedness.(4) Apparently the entire purpose of the co-protagonist - a pathos-ridden teacher - is to portray a man who never does the right thing because he is so pathetic and weak. This is the opposite of an interesting or dynamic character. This static cardboard cutout is nearly half of the book. Whyyyyyyy(5) Skippy dies deluded. Skippy is the most vibrant, good-natured, and fully realized character in the book. It must have pained the author to write about him, so he punishes Skippy mercilessly. Skippy gets to fall in love with a girl who doesn't love him, he gets to have a mother with cancer, he gets to have a distant father who doesn't support him, he gets to have teachers who don't understand him, he gets to have a principal who is his enemy, he gets to have peer pressure, oh and he gets to have a coach who drugs and molests him and then gets off scot-free. He gets to die in the opening pages and his last thoughts are about the girl who doesn't love him. And then his death becomes commodified. Skippy can't catch a break, even after he's dead.(6) Okay I liked the teacher's live-in girlfriend, especially after she moves out. But other than her, the female characters in this book are a joke. I don't think the author likes women too much. Someone musta broke his heart :((7) The cruelty. TO ALL OF ITS CHARACTERS.(8) The lack of empathy masking itself as empathy.(9) The strong start that fooled me into thinking that this would be a big book full of life, despite the title. The realization that the book is as superficial and simple-minded as its title. Well, I can't say that the title didn't warn me.(10) The author somehow thinks he's really, really funny. Strident repetition and joyless caricatures are not funny. Laughing at your own characters' stupidity and misery is also not funny. The author has no discernible sense of humor, despite his insistence that he is a really, really funny guy. Which really, really annoys me. Extra Credit: 10 More Examples of Misery Porn That I Loathed(1) Notes from Underground by Fyodor Dostoyevsky(2) Black Butterflies by John Shirley(3) The North Water by Ian McGuire(4) Let's Go Play at the Adams' by Mendal W. Johnson(5) The Twenty-Seventh City by Jonathan Franzen(6) We Were Liars by E. Lockhart(7) Doomsday Book by Connie Willis(8) Less Than Zero by Bret Easton Ellis(9) John Dollar by Marianne Wiggins(0) White Fragility: Why It’s So Hard for White People to Talk About Racism by Robin DiAngeloplus 1 That I Loved:Island People by Coleman Dowell
6726575157	I just finished, and I’m so glad to be done, so eager to be somewhere new. But that doesn’t mean this wasn’t good. In many ways, very good.This wasn’t a 3-star book, which for me means a solid like that will never stand out as special. This was a 2-star book for me because the manic energy pushed me away more often than it pulled me in; because the sentences could run on and into lists, causing my mind to drift; because the structure felt too fragmented at times to settle in. This was a 4-star book for me because the themes felt meaningful, because the main characters were original and sympathetic (if not likable), and because as quickly as it would push me away, the writing would pull me in again, sometimes despite myself. On the other hand, (2-stars again), at this Catholic boarding school in Ireland, there was a lot of “boys will be boys” dialogue that bored me. And then it would make me laugh and offer something profound (4-stars!). A push-pull relationship, for sure.This was no Bee Sting. I loved The Bee Sting. There, Murray was able to titrate and culminate his mania to let more emotion through. Here I was told about the longing (so much longing for female objects!), in The Bee Sting, I felt it. This, like Bee Sting, was told by different characters in each chapter. Here, I sometimes felt that Howard, a teacher, could just be Skippy, a student, all grown up. Aside from that, each character felt unique, and I admit, I was interested in Skippy and Howard. Skippy had a boy-genius roommate who supplied a lot of comic relief with his scientific experiments, while also intriguing me with theories. I feel like fans of Wallace’s, Infinite Jest, would love this book. I think the writing might appeal to fans of The Sympathizer (this is leads angry), Midnight’s Children, and maybe if you’re not expecting too much of an alternate universe, David Mitchell. This kind of very cerebral writing is never going to be truly for me, although I can appreciate it. This book was so full, I need more time to absorb it, and I want to share quotes with you to see both the issues with the writing, and how inspiring it could be. And I want to say more about ALL the themes, that made this read worth the push to finish, even if it bogged it down.
2331215694	"If there is any substitute for love, it is memory."This book was so engrossing from page one that I spent two sleepless nights trying to finish it, and yes, it was worth it. Skippy Dies will make you laugh out loud while ripping your heart out. As the title suggests, Skippy does die, which becomes the central plot of the book. He dies in the very first chapter. Over the next 600 pages, we find out what happened to Daniel "Skippy" Juster while coming across many distinct characters. I don't know if it's my nature, or the discovery of a book like this, but rarely have I felt so many emotions hitting me all at once, perhaps it is Paul Murray's witty and deep writing, perhaps it is the story of the fourteen year old Skippy, of his first love that inevitably had an effect on me. Skippy Dies is a very comical book. It is so funny in the beginning, and heart wrenching towards the end. First, an overview of a few main characters:Skippy, a shy boy studying in a Catholic boarding school in Ireland. Skippy's overweight roommate, Ruprecht, loves donuts (no wonder he's my favourite character) and wants to go to Stanford to pursue a career in science. Howard 'the Coward', history teacher who majorly screws up his love life. Carl, a drug dealer, the most dangerous kid in school and is high most of the time. And Lorelei, a girl who Skippy is falling in love with. After Skippy's death, it becomes obvious that something was troubling him. Skippy's death opens up a lot of issues sorrounding the fictional Seabrook College and its students. Murray explores many sensitive topics like drug abuse, parental issues, teenagers struggling with hormones and their emotions. It is a book about boys trying to figure things out, trying to find out how the universe works. Paul Murray has managed to write a book with so many characters, their respective themes and plots without making it seem forced or manipulative. I loved the portrayal of school kids, their parents, teachers, friendship, first love, betrayal, and how everything just came together in the end. The contrast of the kids growing up and finding out life is not a cakewalk, and the adults dealing with what it is like to be grown up is amazingly written. Out of various subplots, science and philosophies, Murray has created magic through words. The book is hilarious, emotional, profound and unpredictable. In the face of this book, all words seem superficial; a simple review just doesn't do justice. This is a brilliant book with unexpected twists and turns, a must read for everyone who wants to laugh and cry at the same time. Most of the book's elements can't be talked about without spoilers, so just go and read this book to find out how and why Skippy dies, how his friends come through, how a teacher is regarded from coward to brave and how drug abuse can ruin lives. A cute little haiku poem Skippy tells Lori to end this review: Lorelei Wakeham Your sad eyes of emerald Are my only stars
219470666	Talk about truth in advertising….As promised in the title, Skippy dies. In fact, he dies in the first few pages when he falls off his stool in a doughnut shop. Who was this kid and what happened? Well, that’s what the rest of the book is for.Skippy was Daniel Juster, a shy and nerdy boy at a Catholic boy’s school in Ireland. In the time before his death, we meet a variety of characters that are unknowingly part of the chain of events that lead to his untimely demise. There’s Skippy’s roommate, an overweight student named Ruprecht who is fascinated by the promise of multiple dimensions hypothesized in M-theory and who makes bizarre inventions that never work. Lorelai is a girl from a neighboring school that Skippy has developed a crush on, but she’s also the object of a creepy obsession of one of his fellow students who is also a pyschopath and novice drug dealer. Howard ‘The Coward’ Fallon is Skippy’s history teacher with his own complicated history at the school and who hopes to cure his dissatisfaction with his life by sleeping with a beautiful substitute geography teacher. Greg Costigan is the acting principal who cares so much about the school that looking out for its students has slipped far down his priority list. What becomes apparent before Skippy’s death is that something is seriously troubling him, but all the characters are so wrapped up in the details of their own lives that no one takes the time to really help the young man. The resulting guilt causes a wave of bizarre repercussions.I’ve seen this book compared to Infinite Jest and Jonathan Franzen. Those are apt, and I’d also say that it reminded me a bit of the film Donnie Darko. However, this is also a unique and moving book that had me at times laughing, angry, sad wistful, depressed and hopeful. The characters are incredibly well drawn and believable. Greg Costigan in particular is such a son-of-a-bitch that I wished he was real so I could get on a plane to Ireland just so I could kick him in the junk. The teen characters are also very well done, and Murray absolutely nailed that weird contradiction where kids that age have well-honed instincts about some things like the hypocrisy of adults but are still naive enough to think that you can get pregnant from oral sex.Also, I listened to the audio version of this and it was done with a full cast doing all the different dialogue. It was one of the best listening experiences I’ve had yet with an audible book.
1338431579	In Skippy Dies Paul Murray writes 21st-century Ireland's response to Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Set in the fictional Seabrook College, the novel follows the lives of Daniel 'Skippy' Juster and his overweight, genius friend Ruprecht van Doren. However, as the title suggests, Skippy dies. He dies on the very first page. The novel then rewinds back (à la The Secret History) and the story begins. Over the next 600-pages Murray writes one of the greatest Irish novels of the century thus far. At points in this novel it was like reading dispatches of my life in secondary school. Murray perfectly encapsulates life in an all-boys Irish Catholic secondary school (I went to an all-boys Irish Catholic secondary school). The antics in the classroom, the attitude towards teachers, the banter between classmates, it was all so wonderful that it made me long for my school days. God I miss them. In Ireland there is nothing funnier than a funeral. We're an incredibly morbid nation and our literature reflects that. The humour in Skippy Dies is subtle but biting, highly offensive, and undeniably Irish. This is without a doubt Paul Murray's masterpiece. He joins the ranks of Laurence Sterne, Samuel Beckett, and Flann O'Brien. I highly recommend this masterful novel.
2206545875	Audacious.Crackling.Whip-smart.A whirling, swirling, nonstop rise and fall of energy.But what exactly are we reading about? Frustrated potential? Emergent identities in adolescence? A sci-fi mystery? A bildungsroman? All of the above?You know, you spend your childhood watching TV, assuming that at some point in the future everything you see there will one day happen to you: that you too will win a Formula One race, hop a train, foil a group of terrorists, tell someone 'Give me the gun', etc. Then you start secondary school, and suddenly everyone's asking you about your career plans and your long-term goals, and by goals they don't mean the kind you are planning to score in the FA Cup. Gradually the awful truth dawns on you: that Santa Claus was just the tip of the iceberg – that your future will not be the rollercoaster ride you'd imagined, that the world occupied by your parents, the world of washing the dishes, going to the dentist, weekend trips to the DIY superstore to buy floor-tiles, is actually largely what people mean when they speak of 'life'. Now, with every day that passes, another door seems to close, the one marked PROFESSIONAL STUNTMAN, or FIGHT EVIL ROBOT, until as the weeks go by and the doors – GET BITTEN BY SNAKE, SAVE WORLD FROM ASTEROID, DISMANTLE BOMB WITH SECONDS TO SPARE – keep closing, you begin to hear the sound as a good thing, and start closing some yourself, even ones that didn't necessarily need to be closed . . . (25)There is much fun to be had, but before long the themes begin bubbling up and darned if this doesn't get you thinking and feeling:(view spoiler)[ Old enough to have a decent mechanical understanding of how the world works, but young enough for their judgments to remain unfogged by anything like mercy or compassion or the realization that all this will one day happen to them, the boys – his students – are machines for seeing through the apparatus of worldliness that adulthood, as figured by their teachers, surrounds itself with, to the grinding emptiness at its heart. They find it hilarious. (27)People do crazy things, Aurelie said it herself. They do arbitrary things to test the boundaries, to feel free. But those moments don't have any meaning beyond themselves. They don't have any real connection with who you are, they aren't life. Life is when you're not doing something arbitrary to feel free. This is life, this living room, the furniture and trappings they have picked out and paid for with slow hours of work, the small treats and fancies there budget has allowed them. (248)Mother loves Ruprecht. Lori loves Skippy. God loves everybody. To hear people talk, you would think no one ever did anything but love each other. But when you look for it, when you search out this love everyone is always talking about, it is nowhere to be found; and when someone looks for love from you, you find you are not able to give it, you are not able to hold the trust and dreams they want you to hold, any more than you could cradle water in your arms. Proposition: love, if it exists at all, does so primarily as an organizing myth, of a similar nature to God. Or: love is analogous to gravity, as postulated in recent theories, that is to say, what we experience faintly, sporadically, as love is in actuality the distant emanation of another world, the faraway glow of a love-universe that by the time it gets to us has almost no warmth left. (536) (hide spoiler)]There's a seemingly ever-expanding cast of characters who range widely through the ups and downs of male adolescence and the familiar microcosmic drama of school, friendship, puberty, and a search for belonging. And there's an added layer of the adults who oversee this world with a sorrowful sort of detachment:(view spoiler)[ It's not that Howard doesn't love her. He does, he would do anything for her, lay down his life it it came to it – if for example she were a princess menaced by a fire-breathing dragon, and he a knight on horseback, he would charge in with his lance without a second thought, stare the serpent right in its smouldering igneous eye, even if it meant getting barbecued there on the spot. But the fact is – the fact is that they live in a world of facts, one of which is that there are no dragons; there are only the pale torpid days, stringing by one like another, a clouded necklace of imitation pearls, and a love binding him to a life he never actually chose. Is this all it's ever going to be? A grey tapestry of okayness? Frozen in a moment he drifted into? (35)...[H]e was fourteen, half-grown, with no lines of destiny to thread him to anyone, or at least not that he could see; none of them knew yet what their lives were to be, they thought the future was a blank page on which you could write what you wanted. (188)Five months ago, Howard had attended his Class of '93 Ten Year Reunion in this same hall. Long dreaded, it had proved an unexpectedly pleasant affair. A three-course meal, full bar, partners left at home until the Alumni and Spouses Golf Outing the following day; unflattering nicknames left unspoken, enmities of the past carefully let lie. Everyone was eager to appear socialized, to present his adult self, successfully emerged from its chrysalis. They pressed business cards into Howard's palm; they took photos of babies from wallets; they waggled wedding rings and sighed tragicomically. Each reintroduction repeated a truth at once shocking and totally banal: people grow up and become orthodontists. (191) (hide spoiler)]What's more is the whole thing is fantastically crafted and crammed with evocative descriptions, like this one, of a junior high Halloween dance and its accompanying adolescent hormonal horniness:By four o'clock – except for the small gaggle that scurries back and forth between the Art Room and the Sports Hall, arms heaped with dyed-black netting, papier-mache skulls, partially eviscerated pumpkins with craft knives still jutting from their flanks – the school is utterly deserted. Or so it appears; beneath the superficial emptiness, the air groans with the freight of anticipation: the silence shrieks, the space trembles, crammed with previsions so feverish and intense that they begin to threaten to flicker into being, there in the depopulated hallways. Meanwhile, above the old stone campus, sombre grey clouds gather, laden and growling with pent-up energies of their own. (163)Or this one, of a school bully finally confronted:In the doorway, Carl slowly turns, and his bloodshot eyes fall emptily on Skippy. They show no sign of knowing who he is; they show no sign of anything. It is like staring into an abyss, an infinite indifferent abyss . . . when at last he speaks it's as if every word is a deadweight that must be hauled up with chains and pulleys from the bottom of his feet. 'What are you going to do about it?' he says. (353)Or this downright David-Foster-Wallace-ian single sentence inner monologue:It doesn't matter where you go though, nowhere feels big enough to contain you, even if you're right in the middle of the mall it still somehow seems too shallow, like when you were younger and you tried to make your Transformers visit your Lego town, and they were just out of scale, it didn't work – it's like that, or maybe it isn't, because you also feel really tinily small, you feel like a lump in somebody's throat, or actually who cares what you feel, and everywhere you go you encounter other grey-clad boys from your year, looming up like hateful reflections – Gary Toolan, John Keating, Maurice Wall, Vincent Bailey and all of the others that are the pinnacle of the evolution that began so many years ago with that one depressed fish that if you met him now you'd tell him to stay in the sea – there they are, pale-faced but smirking, sleeves rolled up, and though it's sad, it's sadder than a three-legged dog, it's also flat, it makes you angry, so when someone says Skippy was a homo you're almost glad because you can fight them, and they're glad too, so you fight, until someone gets his jumper ripped or the security guard chases you out of the mall, and you've already been kicked out of the other mall, and it's too cold to go to the park, and you think it must be almost time to go to bed but it's not, it's only just time for dinner, which is car-tyre with phlegm sauce and which you leave mostly uneaten, and privately you're thinking Skippy is a homo too, you['re thinking, Fuck you Skippy, though you're also thinking, Hey, where's Skippy? or Skippy, did you borrow my – and then you think, Oh fuck, and everything shakes around the edges again and you have to hold on tight to your lucky condom or your Tupac keyring or your actual live shotgun bullet, or if you don't have one of those things, wedge your hands deeper in your pockets or throw a stone at a seagull or shout after a knacker in the village how his mother was in excellent form last night and run for it, and dream of being Hulk, or a Transformer in a Lego town going smash! bash! crash! stomping the whole city to the group, incinerating the little yellow-headed Lego people with your laser eyes till the smiles melt right off their faces. (477)Or here, the aftermath of a breakup:...[H]e's beset by memories. Independently of him, his mind has started filling in the Halley-shaped blanks. He'll be reading in the kitchen in the small hours, and realize that he is waiting for her to come through the door – can almost see her, in her pyjamas, rubbing her eyes and asking him what he's doing, forgetting to listen to the answer as she gets sucked into an investigation of the contents of the fridge. At the cooker scrambling eggs; crossing the living room to straddle him as he watches TV; lost in some corporate website with a cigarette and a dogged expression; brushing her teeth in the mirror while he shaves – soon the house is haunted by a thousand different ghosts of her, with a million infinitesimal details in attendance, things he'd never noticed himself noticing. They don't come with an agenda, or an emotional soundtrack; they don't pluck at his heartstrings, or elicit any reaction that he can identify definitely as love, or loss; they are simply there, profusely and exhaustingly there. (405)Wow.Not only is the writing immensely talented on the small scale of sentence ("Traffic pants on the quays in a shimmer of monoxides.") and paragraph (see above), there's a wide-ranging snakepit of intermingling plotlines that twist and turn and start up and cross over and switch back around. And the whole thing is somehow not a complete mess, has an order and a structure that feels just out of sight and lets you lose yourself in the delightful prose housed on every page—little gems and comforting adages and prosaic insights and exuberant rushes. It's a sumptuous feast for a reader, a kind of friendly Pynchonian free-for-all that rollicks along with nothing held back:(view spoiler)[ 'If it's any comfort to you,' he says, returning to Howard, 'what you were saying about lacking a sense of an overarching structure – about life feeling bitty – scientifically speaking, that does happen to be one of the big questions of our time.'Howard takes a wary slug from his beer.'How to reconcile the macro and micro. See, there are two big theories of how the universe works. On the one hand you have the quantum mechanical explanation, the Standard Model as it's called, which says that everything is made of very small things – particles. There are hundreds of different kinds of particle, it's all very frenetic and weird and disparate – bitty, as you say. Then, on the other hand, there's Einstein's relativistic account, which is very geometric and elegant and deals with the universe on a grand scale. Light and gravity are caused by ripples in spacetime, everything's ruled by these very simple laws – it's nothing but overarching structure, in short.'He pauses to pull on his cigarette, exhaling a luxurious torrent of smoke.'The thing is, though both explanations are, as far as we can work out, right, neither one works on its own. The curved space account goes to pieces when it runs into subatomic particles. The Standard Model is too chaotic and confused to get us to the big elegant symmetries of spacetime. So neither one is complete, and when you need to use both at the same time, like when you're trying to describe the Big Bang, they won't fit together. It's the same thing you're talking about – you know, on a quotidian level, it's difficult to find any evidence of a narrative arc or a larger meaning in your life, but at the same time, if you try and give you life a meaning – like live according to a principle or a mission or an ideal or whatever &n dash; then inevitably you distort the details. The small things keep agitating against it and popping out of place.' (137) (hide spoiler)]To those who might object that it seems juvenile, that text message transcriptions, salacious rap lyrics, cut scenes of survival-horror/fantasy video game action, and the antics of drugged-out teenagers trying to get laid preclude the possibility of literary weight and magnitude, I'll point right back to Pynchon and Gravity's Rainbow and say if that's artistic, with all its orgies and puking chimpanzees and deviant breaks from reality, than so is this (and it's a hell of a lot easier to make sense of, to boot). Because this book makes some significant and thought-provoking points, amid the zaniness and the flatulence and the raw adolescence. Points about history, about memory, about whether or not to move forward at the expense of forgetting the past or to stay mired in yesterday at the expense of forsaking tomorrow:(view spoiler)[ '...If we were to ring-fence every single historic this or that we discovered, there would literally be nowhere left for anyone to live.''So you're saying it should be bulldozed,' the reporter says...'And what about those who say that this "ruin" gives us a unique insight into the origins of our culture?''Well, let me turn that question around. If the position was reversed, do you think the people of three thousand years ago would have stopped building their fortress so they could preserve the ruin of our Science Park? Of course not. They wanted to move forward. The whole reason we have the civilization we have today – the only reason you and I are standing here – is that people kept moving forward instead of looking backward. Everybody in the past wanted to be a part of the future, just as today everybody in the Third World wants to be a part of the First. And if they had a choice, they would swap places with us in a second!' (574) (hide spoiler)]5 stars out of 5. Highly recommended.
121239944	Things I learned from Skippy Dies:"The Road Less Traveled" by Robert Frost is actually about anal sex. (Now please don't all leave me outraged comments and personal messages asking me how I can be so disgusting and impugn Frost's memory. I didn't make it up -- it's actually in the book. Ok, I did choose to mention it, but seriously, how you can review this book without mentioning it, I don't know.)But there's a lot more to Skippy Dies, which was long-listed for the Man Booker. Paul Murray is pretty brilliant in his ability to get into teenagers' heads -- their dialogue here is pitch perfect, including stuff like (I'm about to mention the Frost thing again, so all you sensitive people, please avert your eyes): "I've been thinking about that Robert Frost poem," he says. "I don't think it's about making choices at all.""What's it about, so?" Geoff says."Anal sex," Dennis says."Anal sex?""How'd you figure, Dennis?""Well, once you see it, it's pretty obvious. Just look at what he says. He's in a wood, right? He sees two roads in front of him. He takes the one less travelled. What else could it be about?""Uh, woods?""Going for a walk?""Don't you listen in class? Poetry's never about what it says it's about, that's the whole point of it. Obviously Mrs. Frost or whoever isn't going to be too happy with him going around telling the world about this time he gave it to her up the bum. So he cleverly disguises it by putting it in a poem which to the untrained eye is just about a boring walk in some gay wood.""But, Dennis, do you think Mr. Slattery'd be teaching it to us if it was really about anal sex?""What does Mr. Slattery know?" Dennis scoffs. "You think he's ever taken his wife up the road less travelled?""Poh, when have you ever gone up the road less travelled?" Mario challenges.Dennis strokes his chin. "Well, there was that magical night with your mother...I tried to stop her!" -- ducking out of the way as Mario swings at him. "But she was insatiable! Insatiable!"Murray also manages to juggle a lot of characters, major themes, and plot points, and do it all well. It's been an excellent year for novels in general, so I know that your to-read pile is probably too tall already, but this one is definitely worth adding.
148641067	First, whoever wrote the jacket copy for this book deserves to be given a few punches to the head. For the life of me I can't even remember there being a midget basketball player (oh wait, now I can, but the very brief paragraph or two that he appears in the book is unessential), and the white rapper character is just a piece of comic relief. Other reviews do a good job of lambasting the jacket blurbs. Second, I've read about half of the Harry Potter books, and I don't see the comparison between this and that except there are some kids in both. I do see the Infinite Jest comparison though. I'd be very very very (add some more here if you'd like in your head) surprised to find out that the author hadn't read DFW's masterpiece a few times. This could be a bad thing, but it's not. Like The Instructions this book does a fantastic job at paying an homage to Infinite Jest but adding enough of it's own originality and quirks to the book so that it doesn't feel like your just reading a second-rate rip-off. One way I've been describing the book to people (well three people, but that's like my whole social world plus a co-worker) is that it's IJ light: the book doesn't demand very much from the reader, it's fairly linear (except that in the first chapter Skippy dies, and then get to read up to the event, knowing full well that Skippy aint gonna be living too much longer), and while it has a large cast of characters it doesn't bombard the reader with the number that DFW does. It also doesn't have any of the big asides, there is no eschaton-esque scene, there is nothing like the need to be given chemical compounds for drugs, long filmographies or even a single footnote. The book also takes place in just one general place, sort of like if IJ took place only at ETA. What I mean to say is, it's like all the fun of the ETA parts of IJ without any of the work! Sort of like what I might want to have for a beach-read version of IJ.I should admit here that the book isn't a pure 5 stars for me. It's a four and a half, but I was feeling generous and wanted to get it to stand apart from the plethora of four star ratings I've been handing out lately. Another sort of aside: I think the author shouldn't have named a character Mario, even though the Mario character here is nothing like the IJ Mario there was minor confusion in my head sometimes. That is probably because I'm not so smart and easily obsessed trying to find DFW similarities in books. I said earlier that the book was all the fun without the work. That is kind of a lie. The book is lots of fun but it's also somewhat bleak at times. I find bleak to be on the fun side sometimes, but I wouldn't want someone to read this book based on my review and expect a laugh riot of silliness and absurdity. The book is basically about why a fourteen year old drops dead one Friday night in a donut shop (here is another IJ quality, the first chapter where the reader meets Hal in his ruined state, here we meet Skippy, who turns out to be a quite Hal-like, dead, but without a good reason given in that opening chapter of how he came to die on the floor of some donut shop).My big complaints with the book are all about the last book. I thought that certain parts of the story fell apart here, there was a sense of certain scenes being rushed and a feeling of finality was present, but it made me think, why does there need to be the answers and this kind of resolution to the book. It's not that the book becomes unenjoyable here it just felt like the beginning (first 2/3's) of the book didn't necessarily point to there being a need for the book to take the direction that it did. I don't know what I would have rather liked to have happened and the direction the book takes is fine it just felt like there is the need for a moral or something put on the end that doesn't need to be there. I still enjoyed it though, it's only when I try to think of the book as a whole that I start to have some problems with some of the decisions Murray made with the ending.
278811113	The juggler walks on stage to polite applause. He hasn’t won us over yet, but he seems confident that he will. Somewhat surprisingly, he announces what the dramatic highpoint of his act will be before even starting. (view spoiler)[This book has nothing to do with juggling. It’s a metaphor. And like the undaunted showman on stage, Murray tells us just a few pages in that Skippy will indeed die. (hide spoiler)] Like all jugglers, he has his clichéd elements: rings, knives, a little fire maybe. (view spoiler)[Like most any Bildungsroman set in a Catholic boarding school, this one features sexual preoccupation, characters at the precipice, and the potential for growth. Oh, and maybe some perversion. (hide spoiler)] But hopes are raised knowing the balls-aloft crowd nominated him for their big annual award. (view spoiler)[Well, this isn’t really a spoiler, but I’m on a roll with this peel and reveal thingy. Skippy Dies was long-listed for the 2010 Booker Prize. (hide spoiler)] Then he begins proving his chops. He adds quality and quantity, complexity and pizzazz. There are flourishes galore – balls behind his back and through his legs, then bounced on the floor with blurring speed. (view spoiler)[This Murray guy is good, I’m telling you. His characters are vivid, he writes convincingly from multiple points of view, and he keeps our attention for every one of his 661 pages. (hide spoiler)] And there’s never so much as a bobble. (view spoiler)[Uh, yea, no bobbles – never a word wrong. (hide spoiler)] We can’t help but be impressed when he keeps 7 balls going at once. (view spoiler)[With 7 POV characters, you’d think there’d be trouble, but with his hyper-adept pacing and skill, he somehow pulls it off. (hide spoiler)] Applause, applause! This guy deserves his stay in Vegas. (view spoiler)[ Five big, indulgent stars! But remember, what happens in Goodreads, stays in Goodreads. (hide spoiler)]Actually, these weren’t really spoilers at all. I just saw Bird Brian use the sliding door to great effect in one of his recent reviews and thought it was fun and different.Getting back to Skippy, this book has plenty to recommend it. The characters seemed very real, the dialog was pitch perfect, the conflicts were plausible, and the writing was top-notch. I can’t say whether it was plot-driven or character-driven because it was both. And it was funny. And sad. At times even thought-provoking. As we’ve established, Skippy does die right at the start. The book then backtracks to tell us about the months leading up to that point. Skippy’s roommate, Ruprecht, is also central to the story – an overweight genius with an abiding interest in string theory and all eleven of its abstract dimensions. A cross-section of other friends includes one who was idiosyncratic in his earnest good nature, one who was nobody’s fool, and one who provided comic relief as a would-be Lothario (named Mario) who didn’t catch the irony of a lucky condom he’d been carrying for three years. Anyway, Skippy has conflicts (surprise, surprise). One is a dying mother, another is a dream girl at the neighboring school who is both out of his league and unaware of his existence. Besides that, she kind of has this thing going with bad-boy Carl who trades pills for affections. We get to know this cast of 14-year-olds well, with that odd mix of credulity and cynicism characteristic of the age.Adults are given full treatment, too. There’s Howard (the Coward) who teaches history and lives with his American girlfriend Halley, who fell for him because he was "Irish-looking, by which she meant a collection of indistinct features – pale skin, mousy hair, general air of ill-health – that combine to mysteriously powerful romantic ¬effect". But Howard was also in the thrall of a substitute geography teacher, the alluring Aurelie (alliteratively speaking). She may have been a femme fatale, but she did inspire him to improve his classroom performance. One of the more poignant bits of the book was during an impromptu field trip where Howard told the boys about the WWI experiences of an Irish unit that had been renowned for their rugby prowess during school days only to find dramatic changes in their fortunes from the war as heroism was redefined in the wake of anti-English sentiment. Then there was Father Green (or Pere Vert as the boys called him). There’s a murkiness about this guy which would be a true spoiler to reveal. Another, Greg Costigan, was an exceedingly political school administrator. He was so bad it was funny. Anyone who talks about the school “brand” is meant to be a caricature, I figure. It’s surprising he wasn’t made out to be an American, one of the buzzword-wielding business-trained elite. The plot makes its way to these various characters very skillfully; never too fast, never too slow. We get fights, bravery, cowardice, boy meeting girl, and even a few flirtations with the supernatural (or might that be quantum physics, as only Ruprecht could possibly know). I won’t go into the details because this is already too long, but I will say that any fears I had about jumping the shark (at the dance where Skippy meets Dream Girl) were off base. In Murray’s capable hands, I ended up buying it all – the White Goddess, the Irish mythology, the weird science, the Druid drug dealer – all of it.Sadly, Skippy does die. But we’re better people for knowing his story and the stories of those around him. Murray tells it so well. (view spoiler)[I just realized that a big part of this book’s appeal for me is that I’m not far removed from a 14-year-old mindset myself. This fixation I have with the spoiler feature is all the proof you need of that. (hide spoiler)]
229745928	It’s not you, Skippy Dies, it’s me.I’d heard nothing but praise for this book before I started it. Almost all of my Goodreads friends who’ve reviewed it have given it five stars. Nearly all of the top-rated reviews on Goodreads give it five stars. It was nominated for various awards, including the Booker (well, it was longlisted at least). Apparently, it’s one of Donna Tartt’s favourite books. So you can imagine that I had high hopes for this one, and started it with absolute optimism that it was bound to become a favourite.The story is set at an Irish Catholic boys' boarding school, Seabrook, and charts the interlocking lives of a number of characters. There's the titular Skippy, aka Daniel Juster, a troubled young boy who - you won't be surprised to learn - dies; his friends, notably the overweight and frighteningly intelligent Ruprecht van Doren; Carl, a drug-addled boy in the year above who is 'in love' with Lori, a student from the neighbouring girls' school, who also happens to be the object of Skippy's affections; Howard, the boys' history teacher, who is obsessed with a female colleague and haunted by memories of a traumatic incident by his own days at Seabrook. The narrative weaves around these characters in a mix of third and second person voices, which vary hugely depending on which character is in the spotlight. It’s all very well-written, incredibly clever, and doesn’t put a foot wrong as far as themes and plotting are concerned. It’s also very amusing - laugh-out-loud funny in places and darkly comic in others.So what went wrong?The main barrier was that I liked almost none of the characters. Skippy and Ruprecht are just about the only likeable people in the story. The boys were mostly funny, and definitely true-to-life, but I found the girls horrendous (perhaps they were too reminiscent of people I loathed at that age?), and the adults... I can't emphasise enough how much I detested Howard (appropriately nicknamed 'the Coward'), which was a significant problem since he was the adult protagonist. Aurelie, the object of his affections/lust, was equally infuriating - such a contrived fantasy figure I would have thought she was a figment of Howard's imagination if there hadn't been scenes with other characters speaking to her. Such was my dislike for these characters that I delayed reading for as long as possible whenever I knew a chapter involving them was coming up. Then there's the dreadful headmaster, the positively Satanic Father Green, psychotic Carl, and supporting characters in various shades of horrible. I totally understand that the awfulness of these people is a part of the story (although I'm not convinced I was supposed to hate Howard as much as I did) but for whatever reason, rather than making it entertaining to me, this just made me keep wishing I was reading something else.I did find that the book picked up towards the end. The description of the boys' changed world following Skippy's death was beautifully done, and I even felt a bit sorry for Howard (despite the fact that he was still being a spineless idiot, and (view spoiler)[I agreed far more with what Greg and Aurelie said to him than with Howard's own viewpoint; and he may have had good intentions in teaching the boys about a forgotten part of their history, but he's supposed to be a TEACHER, and veering so far away from the curriculum - which was mainly just because of his obsession with Aurelie anyway! - was a ridiculous thing to do (hide spoiler)]). The fact that Howard (view spoiler)[didn't end up with Aurelie - THANK GOD - and didn't get Halley back either (hide spoiler)] made me happy. I liked the fact that the ending did everything but tie the story up neatly, even if some of the resolutions were quite horrifying. It's hard not to see the story as an indictment of this type of education, especially since Murray was a student at an all-boys Catholic school himself.Ultimately I'm finding it difficult to put my finger on what made Skippy Dies such a hard slog to get through (it took me a month and a half to read, almost unheard of for me), which forces me to conclude that the problem is with me as a reader, not the book itself. This book and I just weren't compatible with each other. This was a big reminder that books can't just be sorted into 'good' and 'bad' - there will always be someone who hates even the most revered classic, and there will always be plenty of readers who adore the most dreadful examples of 'literature' imaginable. I'm saying all this because I really do not want to put anyone else off reading Skippy Dies, and apart from the dreadfulness of Howard, I can't find anything really negative to say about it. It simply wasn't right for me.
215638644	“…a string vibrating at one frequency will give you a quark, say, and a string vibrating at another frequency will give you a photon…Nature is made of all the musical notes that are played on this superstring, so the universe is like a kind of symphony.” (Ruprecht, p. 152)It’s been years since this book came out. It made such a big splash on its debut I feared it may be popular fiction of a type that doesn’t interest me. I waited a little, had a peek, retreated. A big book in the vernacular of adolescent boys: a wave of exhaustion overcame me. Gradually I began to notice that many people whose reviews I follow were finding it an exceptional read. I took another look. No. Still couldn’t ever seem to find the time to wade through the (what I am embarrassed to say I thought at the time) triviality of the thoughts of fourteen-year-olds. Wrong. The voice I had in my head as I read was inadequate to this opus. Out of frustration for my lack of understanding the significance of what others were enjoying, I bought the audio of this, performed with great brio, skill, and cognizance by Nicola Barber, Fred Berman, Clodagh Bowyer, Terry Donnelly, Sean Gormley, Khristine Hvam, John Keating, Lawrence Lowry, Graeme Malcolm, Paul Nugent, and produced by Audible, Inc. Suddenly I experienced what I had been missing. This has to be one of the best audiobook performances I have ever heard.The book is a symphony in four parts, but in the voices of these performers, it is a four-part spoken opera. It is broken into three parts in print and in audio, but make no mistake: This is music. It is Murray’s attempt to reach those of us in alternate universes: “There is a certain amount of evidence that music of various kinds is audible in the higher dimensions—“(Ruprecht, p. 590)This is also a classic of literature, worthy of all the kudos heaped upon it, and many more besides. If I could place it next to another book of comparable stature, it would be Salinger’s The Catcher in the Rye. Salinger’s was slim and this is comparatively huge. But Murray makes his words count. The four parts are named after video games. I believe Hopeland is an invention of the author, but Skippy finds details in the game that seem to reflect his own challenges. The other game names may also be inventions, but there are real games out there with those names & the challenges sort of follow along with Skippy's. They may, however, have been created after, and as a result of the novel rather than having been referenced by Murray. Heartland (The Heartland has fallen under the rule of the ruthless tyrant Midan and his minions...); Ghostland (The blood elves applied the scorched earth policy to the woodlands...); Afterland (a traveling carnival of magical misfits in the afterlife).Every review I have seen mentions its size as a stumbling block. Pity. It takes days, weeks even, to get to it all, but after having lived with the boys and teachers of Seabrook College for some time now, I am convinced this tragicomic masterpiece is one of the great books of the new century. Funny, tragic, sad, true, and painfully revealing, it addresses major themes of our times and reminds us, with lacerating humor, just how it is to be young today. The ferociously hormonal boys central to the drama are engaged in the epic battle we all face but prefer to forget: how best does one grow up, today, in a world of global warming? To a fourteen-year-old, the gloom this question casts is rarely acknowledged but manages to shadow thoughts of the future. Murray captures the idiocy of youth, how they are so unsure of themselves, yet feel immortal at the same time. The cast of characters is positively Dickensonian. Murray peoples an embattled Catholic boarding school with an administration loathe to lose paying students to competitors yet fully aware and conspiratorially silent about the school’s deficiencies. Teachers involved in personal dramas struggle to inspire the teens in their charge while warily watching and abetting the administration in their deceptions. But he is funny, really funny at the same time he is tearing your heart out with the stories of the boys trying to make their way in such a world. Howard, the history teacher, stays on the subject of the First World War for much of the term. The following riff could be taken for one of Murray's central themes, just by substituting global warming for WWI. "In today's History class, Howard the Coward--who looks like he hasn't slept much lately, or washed, or shaved--wants to talk about betrayal.'That's what the war was really about. The betrayal of the poor by the rich, the weak by the strong, above all the young by the old. "If any question why we died / Tell them because our fathers lied" --that's how Rudyard Kipling put it. Young men were told all kinds of stories in order to get them to go and fight. Not just by their fathers of course. By their teachers, the government, the press. Everybody lied about the reasons for war and the true nature of the war. Serve your country. Serve the King, Serve Ireland...[Robert] Graves's friend Siegfried Sasson called the war "a dirty trick which had been played on me and my generation"...'"And what of the White Goddess, who makes appearances throughout the story? The muse is an embodiment of the White Goddess, a cycle of desire and destruction. One will always desire her but one can never possess her lest she lose her power to inspire. Those that survive her ravishment will eventually pass to the Black Goddess who represents enduring, reciprocating love. A reader might take this to mean that if one manages to "take the road less traveled by" and overcome their desire for the ultimately meaningless trifles that are the result of 'wealth creation', one might finally reach a higher stage of consciousness featuring enduring love. “At the docks…we saw…the whole front half of a destroyer that had been completely crushed, like a car that had hit a telegraph pole at high speed…we were told that it had been hit by a wave—one wave, which came out of nowhere, crashed into the bow and smashed everything right back to the bridge…What if the eleventh dimension was not a serene place, but a place of storms, with entire universes ripping through it like huge turbulent waves? Imagine the kind of cataclysm you’d have if one of these white-wave universes collided into another universe…” (Professor Tomashi, p. 215)This is how I feel now, after having reviewed and revisited this work for some weeks. I feel quite as though a gigantic wave has crashed over me and Murray has broken through to another dimension. It is a fabulous experience…Ruprecht would be happy.An interview with Paul Murray speaking to Jesse Montgomery gives us the mind of the author. He speaks the way he writes: he is funny, but he reminds us of the darkness surrounding us and our lives of plenty. “I think the tragedy of the world at the moment is that it’s more and more intent on turning us all into teenagers and making us long for this period in our life when we were totally at sea.” He reminds us of responsibility: of our tendency to act the “kidult” when what we really need to do is, each of us, take personal responsibility for the world we have created. Jill Owens interviewed Murray for Powell’s: “The only reality in our lives is loss, you know? The kids in the last part of the book are realizing that, and realizing that all the illusions they've been chasing are false, and the only real thing they have is each other…But at the same time I think the ending has a certain amount of optimism to it, because even in the middle of this quite cynical system that they're in, these kids have made a valuable discovery, that they have friendship and they have this capacity to take care of each other.”In Murray’s book, Howard is one of the teachers who tells the boys what they need to pull together after Skippy dies. Speaking again of WWI and the men of “D” Company going to fight: “They had joined up as friends, and when they got out to the Front, when the grand words evaporated, the bond between them remained. That they stayed friends, that they looked out for each other, most agreed, was what kept them from cracking up altogether. And in the end was the only thing, was the one true thing, that was genuinely worth fighting for.” (Howard, p. 557) Murray: “M-theory is so complex and it's so astonishingly intricate. It has the fascination of what's difficult, in the same way that drugs are fascinating, or music is fascinating…At the same time, ultimately, they are leading you down a rabbit hole and they are leading you away from the world, and they are leading you away from people into this little narcissistic closed circuit.” “It is the open-ended strings, the forlorn, incomplete U-shaped strings, whose desperate ends cling to the sticky stuff of the universe; it is they that become reality’s building blocks, its particles, its exchangers of energy, the teeming producers of all that complication. Our universe, one could almost say, is actually built out of loneliness; and that foundational loneliness persists upwards to haunt every one of its residents. (Ruprecht, p. 301)”Murray was mum in 2010 about his next project, but he did give a few hints to LitBlog interviewer in April 2011:”…I’d like to write something short and funny. I think the central gag of it is that this French banker meets a writer and the banker is very sensitive and poetic and the writer is just looking for a quick buck. I think it’ll be first person.”There is more on his new project on a Farrar Strauss Giroux blog here.Pachelbel's Canon combines the techniques of canon and ground bass. Canon is a polyphonic device in which several voices play the same music, entering in sequence. In Pachelbel's piece, there are three voices engaged in canon, but there is also a fourth voice, the basso continuo, which plays an independent part. [Wikipedia]A fictional short story by Paul Murray published in The New York Times is not to be missed. In the story a young boy goes to school for the first time. As his father walks him to school, the son asks, “Did you go to school, Dad?”“If there is a substitute for love, it is memory.” --Kipling“Maybe instead of strings it’s stories things are made of, an infinite number of tiny vibrating stories; once upon a time they all were part of one big giant superstory, except it got broken up into a jillion different pieces, that’s why no story on its own makes any sense, and so what you have to do in a life is try and weave it back together, my story into your story, our stories into all the other people’s we know, until you’ve got something that to God or whoever might look like a letter or even a whole word…” (Lori, p. 654)
7135061262	skippy dies begins in a doughnut shop where two friends, skippy and ruprecht, are having a doughnut-eating contest when skippy turns purple and falls off his chair. what follows is 600-pages of backstory, delving into the lives of those who attend, teach at, or are somehow connected to seabrook college, an all-boys catholic school in ireland. the majority of the novel is told in close third person, its focus shifting across a big cast of characters. for some this could make the book feel scattered and muddled, but in murray’s capable hands it is done expertly, with each character still managing to have their own distinct voice and narrative.through this, murray is able to make you care so deeply about many of the characters (and make you detest others). despite the fact that the book is literally called ‘skippy dies’, i was still in disbelief that he did actually die, because i was so endeared to him. murray has such a skill for crafting dialogue, it’s full of humour and is so accurate to teenage-speak (especially that of teenage boys) that the echoes of the school corridors immediately come back to you. but the novel also has a darker side, an underlying sense of sorrow running throughout as murray digs into the troubles plaguing each character, from first love to drug dealing, to infidelity and the haunts of trauma. it’s a sprawling tragic comedy, and a book i wanted to start again as soon as i finished it.
409295876	I discovered Skippy dies through Goodreads and it immediately caught my attention. I love novels dealing with perilous youth and growing up, novels dealing with school and academic life; when I learned that Skippy Dies follows the lives and adventures of a group of teenagers in an Irish boarding school, I was sold. Judging by ratings and reviews I even though that Skippy might enter the great canon of boarding school literature. School stories are a very British thing - they really kicked off after Thomas Hughes published his Tom Brown's Schooldays in 1857, which set the path for future works. Rudyard Kipling published his Stalky & Co in 1899, a collection of stories about the charismatic Stalky and his friends and their life at a boarding school for boys. Stalky marks a departure from the tone set by Hughes in Tom Brown: Tom made trouble every now and then but was basically a decent boy, one who stood up for the underdogs and befriended them, fighting bullies. What he didn't achieve in the classroom he made up for at the playing field. >i>Stalky is far from being sentimental or idealized: it openly presents sadism and bullying as they took place in British boarding school, letting readers peek into the darker side of the institutions which were supposed to protect and educate their children. The boys in Stalky engage in violence and bullying, and are especially cruel to cats. Critics accustomed to Hughes's boyish Tom Brown accused Kipling of not writing about boys, but about ugly little men, little beasts that could have only been dreamed up by a spoiled child made by the utterly brutal public school system. His work was described as vulgar, savage and vile; Cambridge's Concise History of English Literature (published in 1942) summed it up as An unpleasant book about unpleasant boys at an unpleasant school. Today, some readers see Stalky & Co as the only school novel which prepared its readers for real life.Although they originated and reached popularity in Britain, school stories are not exclusive to the isles. My personal childhood favorite is a series of novels published in my home country of Poland, and written by a man whose work all Polish children are familiar with - Jan Brzechwa. Brzechwa wrote a trilogy of novels about character known as Pan Kleks (Mr. Kleks, with Kleks being Polish for inkblot). Mr. Kleks's name was Ambroży (try pronouncing it) and he was a creator and headmaster of a mysterious and magical Academy, open only for boys whose names begun with the letter "A". The Academy itself is located in an enormous park full of gorges and ravines and is hidden from the outside world with an enormous wall, which is full of doors locked with silver padlocks, and each opens to a new fable...these books have been written after the war, in the 40's and 60's, and to the best of my knowledge have not been translated into English. Which is a total shame - when I read them as a little tyke I thought that the intrigue was stellar and that suspense was through the roof, and that the author's imagination knew no bounds. I'm supposed to be all grown up now and haven't read these books in years - I'm fearful that I'd take the few happy moments of my childhood away if they wouldn't prove to be as fantastical and wonderful as I remembered them.Brzechwa was the first author whom I read and who thought about mixing the boarding school story with magical elements, but he's certainly not the most popular. In the late 90's a British (surprised?) author named J.K. Rowling single-handedly revived the genre with the first installment in what would be one of the most widely read and appreciated sagas of all time, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. Rowling invented the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where she set the adventures of Harry, Ron, Hermione and their friends, and which captured the attention of the whole world, proving enormously successful with readers of all ages. I'm happy for Ms. Rowling's great success as it provided me with many pleasant hours and gave faith to many struggling writers across the globe; but at the same time can't help but be a bit sad for my beloved Jan Brzechwa, whose Mr. Kleks never even got a chance to enchant young readers the way Harry did. He did enchant for me, that he did - and I remember him.There's a reason why Hogwarts proved to be so popular with young readers. Kids love the idea of living away from their parents and following a completely different set of rules, with the school being an entirely new environment - a whole world - made just for them; they take delight in exploring it, pushing the boundaries and often crossing them, taking their first stabs at questioning authority, fighting it, and discovering what lies beyond. I very well remember the feeling when I realized that my parents made mistakes and bad decisions, and that life in our house was not perfect. I felt that a wall which was surrounding me since birth was cracked, and what was behind it was ugly. I was a very young boy and had lots to learn; I wished to attend a remote school like the boys in Brzechwa's novels did, but I never got the chance. I went through the public school system which Kipling's critics so despised, and like all kids everywhere I had to build my own wall. I'm still building it but then who isn't, and does it ever really stop?But I digress. Skippy Dies is a boy's book: it's a big, fat book about a group of teenagers in Seabrook College, a Catholic boarding school in Dublin. Although it originally started as a short story, ideas kept popping into the head of Paul Murray and it grew and grew. It took 10 years to write and originally was more than 1000 pages long, but Murray cut it to below 700. Skippy doesn't lie - the title character, Daniel "Skippy" Juster dies at a donut eating contest in the novel's opening scene. Skippy's death is as tragic as it is bizarre: why did Skippy end up dead at the floor of Ed's Doughnut House seen by all other participants? Was he trying to say something to his friends in his last moments? Murray rewinds his book, and for two of its three volumes (Skippy was originally published as a set of three separate paperbacks) takes us through the events leading up to Skippy's death, and then shows us its aftermath on the community of Seabrook.Skippy, who is a rather passive boy, is just one of Murray's many characters; they're both juvenile young teens and adult teachers of Seabrook, but both groups seem to be equally lost and not sure of their sense of place in the world. One can accuse Murray of employing stereotypical characters but then anyone who has ever attended a school will recognize these boys from the pages: there's Ruprecht Van Doren, an overweight geek obsessed with string theory who wants to open a portal to another dimension; Mario, a teenage Lothario wannabe who carries a condom in his wallet because he's up all night to get lucky; there are also Geoff, Niall and other goofs. There's also Lori, a pupil of the neighboring's school for girls, whom Skippy sees throwing a Frisbee as he looks into Ruprecht's telescope and with whom he falls in love; there's also Carl, a teenage drug dealer and a thug who also has his eyes on her. The adult faculty is also an important part of this story: there's Howard Fallon, a history teacher nicknamed Howard The Coward because of an episode from his past which still haunts him; there's Father Green, the French teacher whose name the boys have translated as "Pere-Vert". Greg Costigan, the acting principal is known as Greg the Automaton because of his heated intention on modernizing what he sees to be a hopelessly dated school. The two adult female characters, Howard's American girlfriend Halley and the beautiful substitute geography teacher, miss Aurelie McIntyre. Halley seems to merely exist for Howard to slowly realize his disillusionment with the life he leads, while Aurelie seems to be almost mythologized and reduce to being a muse, a golden haired and lovely but ultimately fantastical maiden. To Murray's credit, the teenage Lori is a much better realized character than both adult women; it's a curious incident in what otherwise is a book which paints real attention to portray an extensive cast of varied characters.There's a lot of juvenile humor in this book (which is genuinely funny, at least for yours truly) but also of juvenile violence and juvenile, terrible cruelty. The boys relentlessly tease one another, harshly and insultingly; they are openly racist to a Vietnamese restaurant owner and take pure pleasure in damaging and disturbing his business and insulting him and his workers. These are things that many young boys - good boys, from good homes, not thugs - do every day, and which we refuse to believe and accept and would just rather brush under the rug. There's a sexual scene which is a homage to the ending section of Ulysses - that breathless pornography. But it also sags and slows down, and shows that while Murray clearly had lots of ideas he doesn't quite know what to do with such a wide array of them and how to organize them into a narrative which wouldn't be helplessly bogged down in certain sections. which then arrive at an ending which ties the lose ends all too neatly. The book shows that it was edited and shortened down; perhaps it would have been more coherent at its full uncut length of 1000 pages? We'll never know.In his review, Mike calls Skippy a YA novel for adults. Although sounding like a contradiction, this might actually be the best way to describe this novel. It has ideas, it has juveniles, it's not slow but it's not fast, it certainly is not for younger kids but it's certain to wear some adult readers down, and they might not even finish it. It's a very difficult book to rate - in the end I chose to give it four stars, but mostly for the author's ambition and great talent at recapturing the way young boys behave, but not so much for what turned out of his work. Skippy Dies is not bad. It really isn't - but what bothers me is that it could have been great, but lost its real potential somewhere between string theories and fart jokes.
413550159	It's several months in the life of a boys' public school in Ireland. It is nothing like Harry Potter. It is chockablock with early teen angst and cruelty, and the particular vagaries of that age of life, which are so easily forgotten when the headiness of later adolescence closes in. And everyone's story is the most important story to them, and yet, we discover how different those stories are, and how stories are covered up and papered over, and different narratives installed in their place to make things seem neat and tidy and explainable to a board of investors and a bunch of angry parents. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
1852609103	Skippy Dies is a mystery. Much less and not really of the “who dunit” variety, but it’s a mystery of life. A fairly common complaint among reviewers is that it’s too long, but after it’s over it’s hard to imagine what to cut out. I also agreed that it compares to A Catcher in the Rye (in spite of the vast difference in size) in that you’ve learned and are changed by the reading, but it’s near impossible to put it in words. Since I’m not a literature expert, I was confused by the new (to me) categories. Is this “creative nonfiction”, since it has so much actual science, popular references? I don’t understand how some called this “magic realism”, as the mythology references were quite a small part of the book, overall, including, even, Ruprecht’s attempts to communicate with the dead. Perhaps MR as conceived by the literary includes unknown aspects of scientific study, and that term was broadened to mean the epistemology of physics. Certainly that was a common concern in Ruprecht’s thinking, and does sits at the junction of realism and idealism. I’d also not come across the description of the “tragicomic” book, but that fits here. Indeed, the jokes made you laugh out loud and so often, even though the jokes were more ordinary and some almost corny - although with exquisite timing. It wasn’t the “black”, witty, edgy, or deprecating humor that generally makes me laugh that often. It was the easy nature of the joke that prepared you for the onslaught of epiphany and power that came between. Perhaps such jokes help “lower our guard”, so the next serious activity was stronger in impact. Indeed, humor and seriousness were not combined, but thematically sequential, sometimes in quick time, and sometimes more slowly. Maybe it wasn’t wise to jump back into major fiction with a 600+ pages that is compared to Pynchon and Franzen in complexity (not that I’ve read either - yet). I do think it was the audiobook format that caught and held my attention (for almost a 24 hours’ worth of narration) during and a bit after a cross-country road trip July ‘16. The audiobook is highly recommended. This was my first “book on tape” and it was a revelation in how much I enjoyed it. I was stunned when I saw how many hours I’d have to dedicate to it, and just that made me think of the paradox of time, and how we spend it especially when we’re aware of making it as meaningfully as possible. Reading in hard copy takes about half the time, no? Makes me also reflect on “information overload” (coined by the recently departed sociologist-futurologist Toeffler) and how we judge the value of time. Months later, I can still conjure up the voice of the narrator, and think I may always will. I’m not sure if that’s the wonderful tenor, pacing, and timing of the voice, or that from the voice came so many powerful phrases and ideas.War and sex-segregated prep schools are both “womanless worlds”, and are meant to horrify, brutally separate, reify, codify. My male partner listed to the audio by my side, and it did pain him a bit to remember his own boy’s preparatory school, a well-known one in Northern New England. He recalled similar homophobia including experiencing taunts for a year after he was “caught” looking at a book with his roommate while sitting besides him on his bed. It made him terribly sympathetic to gays and lesbians the rest of his life. It is as if during a certain age of boys the entire quest is denying any potential homophobic yearnings as much as Mario hallucinated up a busy sex life. My partner realized, even at the age of Skippy and his pals, it wasn’t good, or right, or “natural” to suddenly go from co-education grade school, where boys and girls learn to know and accept they’re going to be in the world together, to a sex-segregated prep school, with artificially pre-arranged “group dates” with a nearby girl’s prep school. He protests his relationships with women were twisted from that experience clear through his entire Yale undergraduate days before females were other than the Other, as it were, again. In a fascinating interview with Murray in Paris Review http://www.theparisreview.org/blog/20... Murphy sympathizes with how difficult life as teens may be, to try to mature in all ways without clear, desirable, or constant guideposts, and says of gender: “My school was a boys’ school; there were no girls, so life really felt kind of pointless in that regard. You’ve got these huge sexual transformations happening, but if there are no girls, obviously all the energy is just going to be turned into brutalizing whoever is smaller than you.” Is this why, while females obviously bully, the rate for bullying in boys is twice the rate in high schools? It was disheartening to me, though, in the same interview, that Murray notes that his old school chums get together and “we do regress really quickly—it’s kind of scary—to our teenage state and talk in a not hugely dissimilar way to the kids in the book”, and that was disheartening to me. Is this why some manly men (who are definitely not gay) have Man Caves, to work out their homophobia with their bros? As much as I loved this book, it was psychologically bruising to hear the casual slurs of “gay” and “fag” said literally hundreds of times. I know it’s also a giggle when the word “gay” becomes noun, verb, adjective, and adverb, and likely that lowered my defenses and left me more vulnerable to the sting, as I waited for homophobia among the boys to be addressed or reckoned with, but it never was. Contrast that with the nonchalance towards sexual impropriety among adults trusted to protect the children. Indeed, I was also on edge waiting for sexual abuse to enter the plot once I realized it was a parochial school with priests – on guard and expectant for it although wishing it would never come. I agreed with one comment that the boys, themselves, were tortured participating in the gay-bashing almost as much as those that were on the receiving end. Do we really never have more than an “inner teenager”, Murray asks in the Paris Review, one from which we never evolve and instead just “learn to keep him (sic) quiet”? There was a psychological article decades ago on denial and responsibility that wondered why the largest Holocaust museum was in D.C., and not in Germany, and why D.C. didn’t have the largest museums on Native Americans, for example? (Now D.C. does have a Native American museum – and it’s a fabulous one, but it took a long time). The author of the article sardonically asked whether perhaps we should be less concerned about freeing our “inner child” than getting more in touch with the “inner adult” within. Also in the 80s (and it’s shocking to recollect this was pre-social media) Josh Meyowitz, a Communications professor, wrote about the impact of television and said that it had already produced kid-like adults and adult-like kids, e.g., adults watch cartoons and kid shows (Simpson’s) and we subject children to adult themed situations on shows they see with their parents as well as unsupervised. Murray rips us open existentially by showing us how the line between child and adult is always blurred, but perhaps it is getting more so. He shows us that sometimes the thinking and behavior of the 14 year old is indistinguishable from the 25 and older group. We older people come to respect the thinking of a 14 year old, and we should listen to them as Murray shows us they’re all calling out for help. However, how can adults help them, when there is not a single, solitary example of anything approaching a “healthy” adult portrayed? (Did I miss one? Howard was the only one with adult potential, it seemed.) Ruprecht with his French horn is frustrated as he knows there is something wrong with how the song is going, but doesn’t know how to fix it. Similarly, so often with life, we guess he is thinking, or maybe it’s just us, now, working the metaphors after Murray got us going.We are reminded, as educators and scientists among other readers, that both schools and physics have a tenuous “fabric of society” that is needed to hold them together, therefore both the process of schooling under post-modernity as well as the physical universe are slowly unraveling. Because it’s part of my academic work life I particularly loved hating the “acting” administrator at the school. The administration of the school is disturbingly similar to the de-evolution of perhaps all human bureaucracies but certainly apparent in those of K-16 schools in the U.S.. Murray recollects the similarities with his own, quite similar, boys’ prep school in Ireland and how the focus was on grades, not learning, and on getting lucrative careers, not making a meaningful life. Back to the Paris Review interview, Murray speaks of how Ireland became a “cruel” place and especially for those “marginalized” groups during it’s own economic boom and bust, leaving the materialistic consumerism he grossly details in his writing as the goal of the work ethic as it’s own reward and punishment. Murray says that Ireland adopted a “very American model of capitalism” that has, likewise with neoliberal global capitalism, now left the Ireland “completely destitute.” Shades of Schooling In Capitalist America: Educational Reform And The Contradictions Of Economic Life were throughout this work – how education reproduces the ideologies (destructive) and behaviors (likewise, and soul-sucking) in our children and students, the future “brick in the walls” (from the Pink Floyd refrain featured in the book).I did love the student questioning whether Jesus is a zombie.
232721483	Bought this today as an "OMG congratulations on being 31 and finally getting a real job" reward. It better be worth it; even at the Strand it was $14. Real job does not equal real money on the first day, turns out.**Holy balls this book is so good. I put it #1 on my CCLaP best-of-2011! Here's what I said about it there:This is a straight-up, no nonsense, trickery-free whirl of a novel. It takes place in an Irish boys' school, following a whole group of tween boys, as well as many of their teachers, through a month or so in real time, but with scads and scads of backstory. It's filled with incredibly drawn characters, slippery dicey morality, bad bad luck and timing, the howling chaos of lived lives. There are so many chances for Murray to take the easy way out -- becoming corny, melodramatic, or needlessly devastating -- but he hews instead to something that approaches real truth, actions and dialogue and characters that remain consistently, utterly believable, and it's therefore all the more crushing when they fall.
334898243	I hadn't expected to like Skippy Dies. Literary novels haven't attracted my interest for some time now---since, say, The Unbearable Lightness of Being and several works by Cormac McCarthy, all read and loved a long time ago. Frankly, many literary tomes can seem tedious or pompous or both. I relish strange new worlds with unfamiliar landscapes such as those written by China Miéville and more recently, the mind-blowing The Quantum Thief.That said, how in the world did Paul Murray pull me into Seabrook College for Boys with a starring cast of pubescent critters? Raging hormones are predicable and single-minded, so why bother with clumsy sexual fixations when there are so many more interesting tales to read? Well, Paul Murray described a world with those alien creatures that was fascinating in variety and complexity such as exists in each human heart, which is, after all, albeit familiar, still in need of exploration and explanation. A plethora of topics unfold, such as how love can be fueled by illusions that stem from neediness, which often has little to do with reality. And then there's string theory! Interestingly, I saw the characters as worlds unto themselves, but woven together such that pulling one small thread such as the diminutive Skippy can wreck and heal the lives of children and adults alike. --All this and more, laughter and pain found in beautiful, profound writing that won me over rather early. The writing was magnificent in places and the overall structure of the plot and subplots were expertly handled. I found myself reading 'just one more chapter' well into the night. And to think, all that marvel takes place in a boys school---as good a center of the universe as any, I now admit.
3725637956	"Te tenía por un jugador de equipo. Ahora me pregunto si no eres más como uno de esos peces. Preferirías pasarte el dia flotando a solas en el agua, fantaseando. Pero un pez no nos sirve de mucho en el Seabrook College. Aquí estamos para cumplir objetivos. Tenemos metas, metas de excelencia académica y deportiva. Trabajamos conjuntamente, somos concienzudos. Somos mamíferos, Howard. Mamíferos, no peces."Una simple reseña nunca le va a hacer justicia a un libro como éste porque la única forma de hacerte una idea sobre él no es a través de lo que otros digan sino cómo experiencia personal y sumergiéndote en todo este microcosmos de personajes que ha sido capaz de crear Paul Murray. Ante todo tengo que decir que no solo es arriesgado elegir este título, sino empezar la historia como la empieza. Skippy muere, sí, en el primer capítulo además, pero si tenemos en cuenta que Skippy no es el personaje central, el protagonista absoluto, nos puede hacer entender muchas cosas una vez terminada la novela. A partir de aquí, de este comienzo, Murray está ya definiendo el universo en el que nos va a sumergir: una montaña rusa de emociones, de risas y de una cierta melancolia encubierta.La novela que aquí ha construido Paul Murray transcurre casi mayoritariamente en un internado católico irlandés, el Seabrook College, una novela totalmente coral donde a partir del hecho inicial de la muerte de Skippy, seguimos a una serie de personajes que se entrecruzan, todas en torno a la vida de Skippy. Daniel Juster (Skippy) es un adolescente de catorce años tímido, perteneciente al equipo de natación y experimentando su primer amor. Con Skippy como catalizador, su historia revierte en otros personajes como Howard, el profesor de historia, Ruprecht van Doren su mejor amigo, Greg, el director del internado, Lori, su amor platónico…, y muchos más, todos con su propia historia que se ve sacudida por su relación con este personaje. Imposible explicar nada más del argumento, porque independientemente de que sería de lo más gratuíto, lo importante realmente es la evolución de la historia y las sensaciones que va transmitiendo al lector."El momento es bastante electrizante en su fría y destemplada inmediatez; no llega a ser como ver un fantasma, sino más bien como descubrir, en la mirada del otro, que tú mismo te has convertido en un fantasma."Es una novela que me sorprendió por el humor que destila, hay pasajes maravillosos, diálogos en los que no puedes parar de sonreir porque Paul Murray tiene un talento innato para abordar el sentir adolescente, la sexualidad que les obsesiona, los interrogantes que se hacen, sus relaciones con los adultos que les rodean, un sentido del humor que rebosa todo ese primer segmento del libro titulado Hopeland. A veces pareciera que estos adolescentes se pasearan por la vida como fantasmas en la era de internet, del consumismo extremo y de la presión social: los adultos, algunos profesores, sufren del mismo estigma, y a veces parecen incluso más perdidos que los adolescentes, auténticos sonámbulos."Hace cinco meses, asistió a la Reunión de la Década de su promoción del 93 (...) Todos ansiaban ofrecer un aspecto socializado, mostrar su yo adulto, surgido éxitosamente de una crisálida. Howard no paró de recibir tarjetas profesionales, de contemplar fotos de bebés sacadas de carteras. Cada reencuentro repetía una verdad a la vez estremecedora y totalmente banal: las personas crecen y se hacen ortodoncistas."Independientemente de lo mucho que me haya gustado la historia, y es raro, porque no soy nada fan de las historias de internados y de adolescentes atormentados, tengo que decir que lo que más me ha fascinado aquí es la forma en la que Paul Murray aborda una historia que a priori pudiera parecer tan tópica, pero es justo lo contrario, es totalmente imprevisible. La agiliad con que cambia entre las historias, los diferentes puntos de vista, tanto de adultos como de adolescentes, es especialmente atractiva. Murray nos hace una radiografía muy acertada de estos adolescentes un poco perdidos pero al mismo tiempo deseando encontrar una especie de motor que los conduzca a un puerto seguro. El estilo de Murray es ágil, con momentos de humor negro negrísimo y con una enorme carga de empatía por sus personajes, incluso por los aparentemente más desagradables. Creo que de alguna forma se sale del tópico que conocíamos sobre grupos de chicos en internados y nos sumerge en un universo de personajes de carne y hueso, sin cargar las tintes, siempre profundizando en el perfil de sus personajes, por muy secundarios que nos parezcan. En fin, que es una novela repleta de momentos maravillosos, emocionantes, con personajes que creo que me va a ser imposible olvidar ya. Una de mis novelas del año."-No creo que tengas nada de lo qué preocuparte en lo que respecta a Juster. Tal vez sea un poco soñador, pero...- Soñar es algo que tampoco animamos aquí, Howard. Lo nuestro es la realidad. Realidad; verdades objetivas, empíricas. Eso es lo que va a examen. Un examinador no quiere saber qué batiburrillo de disparates soñaste la noche anterior. Quiere hechos palpables."https://kansasbooks.blogspot.com/2021...
198648010	I don't understand how this novel was so well received. I'm still reading it but struggling. It's taking forever but I have to finish a novel once I've made the decision to invest in it, and I will get through this one. The thing with me is that I like most novels I choose to read. It usually goes that I love some, take much pleasure in others and can find some aspect to appreciate or enjoy in the rest. So it's weird of me to not like this one at all. Weirder still is the fact that I want to like it because I don't think it's bad or deeply flawed. And I can see how it's very likeable. But for some reason I can't find it in me to care. Not for the writing and not for the characters. I like the idea of the story, but being close to 400 pages in and still not knowing much about the characters makes it hard. And there's something about the writing that doesn't allow me to connect to it.
2207582712	Skippy Dies is an engaging, entertaining and thoughtful novel about the turmoil of growing up, which for me just misses out on full marks because of its low notes and relentless adolescent humour (this, confirming my suspicion that I am, in fact, getting old; how depressing). But I did love the depiction of the emotional turbulence of high-school life, which vividly brought me back to my own experience in quite a disturbing way. There is such vitality and fervour inherent in that time of life, but navigating the social and personal complexities can be like a high-wire balancing act, with a misstep in either direction having potentially life-changing consequences. It really is a wonder any of us makes it out alive.Thematically, the novel centres around loss, and the ways in which we try to come to terms with it. The most salient example is Skippy’s own death, but there is also the breakdown of various relationships, the impending loss of a parent, the loss of one character’s promising sporting future due to injury, and the loss of another’s scientific hopes, among many other examples. There is often a corresponding loss of self-identity, which can trigger misguided or self-destructive behaviour, and there is a very interesting comparison drawn between personal loss and the cultural loss of history, and of our connection to the past.In exploring these themes the novel incorporates references to String and M-Theory, as well as pagan religion and mysticism. The connections drawn are sometimes overstated and don’t always hit their mark, but what does come through is the sense that we are indebted to each other to provide meaning in our lives. We are each the sum of our relationships; the result of the complex network of cause-and-effect that makes up the web of our lives. If we do in fact live on after death, if not in some inter-dimensional or spiritual sense, we do so in the memory of others, in the ways we have affected their lives, and in the stories that we tell about the past. The novel preaches the importance of retaining our history and our connection to the past. In some ways, the act of neglecting history, of misrepresenting or forgetting the lives and deeds of others is an act more tragic, and a loss more final than death itself.
246032585	I find growing up such a strain, partly since I’ve hit my middle twenties and I can’t seem to get on with it. All the routines of life—unemployment, infidelity, alcoholism—I look upon with wry amusement, as mere targets for my satiric inner child to mock from my ivory tower. This novel paints a cynically accurate portrait of teenagehood (at least among rich Catholic kids) as texting thugs driven by spite, sex and sleeping pills. And the adults too are misguided souls, aimlessly searching for an elusive whatever in a disappointing and cold world. But for the duration, Skippy Dies is a manic not-really-coming-of-age-at-all novel written in a range of delicious close third-person narratives, flipping between breathless teenage babble, a convenient scientific genius (helps add cosmic heft), and an adult pedagogue with a wandering penis. The sublime comic energy that infuses this novel guides the reader through its giddying 600+ density, through its crass humour, teenage theatrics, comic caricature, towards the unusual ending where it withers into oblivion like the sequel to Carrie. Now back to my miserable life . . .
409177114	http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cP26n...Christmas Canon (after Pachelbel’s Canon)-Trans-Siberian Orchestra“Life has its own hidden forces which you can only discover by living.”-Søren Kierkegaard, Danish philosopher (1813 - 1855)“Maybe instead of strings it’s stories things are made of, an infinite number of tiny vibrating stories; once upon a time they all were part of one big giant superstory, except it got broken up into a jillion different pieces, that’s why no story on its own makes any sense, and so what you have to do in a life is try and weave it back together,…”-Skippy DiesAngst, that amorphous feeling of dread, has its balance in tragicomedy and metaphysical hope. Teenage angst, most of all, is defining in its shattering of illusion, its realization that the world is only grey, and that there is no real answer. In this thoroughly entertaining and achingly poignant book, Paul Murray managed to weave an elegant allegorical fabric of the cosmos in which the mathematical system of classical music is the perfect mode of communication. Yet this quantum world is heartbreakingly chaotic in the macro world of students in a prep school, its faculty members and the employees of a donut shop. It’s a multiverse where particles connects and vibrates in a symphonic movement of banality and hope. Highlighted are the painful lives of the troubled Daniel “Skippy” Juster, the wishful Ruprecht Van Doren, and the regretful Howard.The story takes place in Seabrook, a Dublin private school composed of hormonal teenage boys, in particular a group of 14-year-old friends. This world of privileged children and haunted faculty members is full of vivid characterization and dark humor, with the sex-obsessed Mario proudly touting his three-year-old unused lucky condom, Ruprecht’s foibles in his search for a way to the other universe, and male infatuations with schoolgirl Lori and Geography substitute teacher Aurelia McIntyre. There is also a villain in the form of drug dealer Carl, Skippy’s sociopathic rival for Lori. Underlying this symphonic movement with its variation of voices is the poignant bass of the lost Skippy. Murray masterfully integrates a large number of point of views, from the students to the employees of the donut shop, seamlessly moving from third person to first person, from trite musings to deep insight, and from humorous to tragic. All this with a curious mixture of humor, tragedy and hope.The personal stories are not only about teenage angst, but also about the Seabrook faculty members. The adult Seabrook staff members are no less lost in their navigation through life. “Howard the Coward” Fallon, the history teacher, drifts through a life of disappointments; Gregory L. Costigan, the economics teacher and acting Principal, is obsessed with the business side of running the school; Father Jerome Green, the scary French teacher atoning for a past sin, is an overachiever of altruistic accomplishments; and Tom Roche, former star athlete and swim coach, has a life that is tragically intertwined with Howard’s disappointments. The plot starts out with the big bang, the death of Daniel “Skippy” Juster after he scrawled with donut jelly, “TELL LORI”, for Ruprecht to tell Lori that he loves her. Death and tragic love sets the tone for a story that accelerates into a revelation of everyone’s imperfect universe. In this ever changing and interacting donut shaped universe, things manifest in time and goes back into the fold. We are swept up in this canon of unrequited loves, loneliness in a crowd, and the tortured decision to tow the line or be true to oneself. Skippy Dies is a Möbius strip with the teenage Skippy’s story balancing the adult Howard’s story. Both are tainted by a defining shaming moment that would cause them to badly cope with the emotional impact, Skippy through a numbing drug haze, Howard through living his life in safe banality, avoiding confrontation. Both Skippy and Howard endured distracting infatuation with unattainable princesses. Besides risking his fragile ego, Skippy risks a dangerous encounter with Carl, his rival for Lori’s affections. Howard risks the safety of his mundane relationship with his girlfriend and his stale job as a history teacher to follow the giddiness of an adolescent infatuation with Aurelia. For all their bravery in trying to attain their princesses, the failed knights suffer defeat in a world of amorphous grey dragons that can never be lanced and defeated. Whereas Skippy managed to escape to the other universe via death, Howard lives on in this universe facing the repercussions of a life disappointing himself and others. Both tainted knights who care too much in an uncaring world ultimately were destroyed by the amorphous dragon. Both Skippy and Howard’s cowardice reverberated through others. After Skippy’s self-destruction, Ruprecht’s grief turned into obsession with finding the portal into another universe that has the answers. Lori, Skippy’s love interest, aim to slowly disappear from this universe. In a further demonstration of the entanglement of vibrating strings, Howard’s cowardice reverberated through time affecting Skippy in the form of the tragic ex-superstar Tom. Murray deftly creates a believably surrealistic effect that combines a quantum world with the macro world, as time slows for the drugged Skippy as he muses how the painkillers can help him in his travel to another universe. After Skippy made his successful journey through the black hole of death, Ruprecht’s search for a way to the other universe grew to a desperate intensity that results in a humorous adventure as the boys break into the girl’s school to seek the perfect point of entry to the other universe. What emerges is a hilarious sequence that ends with Rupert and his quartet sending a message to Skippy via the aching hybrid of the hopeful Pachelbel’s Canon and the idealistic BETHani song,“If I had three wishes I would give away two, Cos I only need one, cos I only want you.”Split into four movements, Hopeland, Heartland, Ghostland, and Afterland, Skippy Dies is a verbal symphony about the need to make sense of a chaotic world in which there is no clear good or bad, the vortex of change is unceasing, and nobody wins. What could be a Bildungsroman, full of laughable awkward moments of the foibles of self-discovery, ends up giving the impression that there is no answer or panacea to life’s difficulty. It is about self-delusion, the lifting of the veils of delusion, and the self-preserving need to go back into the delusional world. Sadly, it is also about the destruction of those who cannot hang on to the iron armor of illusion.
121885365	Damn good, despite obstacles: a little overfamiliar in its coming-of-age business, a little irritating in its perspectival caprices. But the book is consistently smart and enjoyable over its 600+ pages; better yet, it's a nimble shapeshifter, fluctuating between comedy and tragedy, levity and profundity, without weakening either tonal pole or making too much mess. Murray manages to go deep and go sad without sacrificing the book's breezy, buoyant momentum. Not an easy trick to pull off, and he deserves a lot of credit for making it work.(I should note that whatever problems I may have had with the book are partly traceable to the contextual whiplash caused by a couple of detours I took to other novels while in the middle of this one, namely Jesse Ball's mind-tickling Samedi the Deafness and Tom McCarthy's mind-blowing Remainder . These terrific novels so stimulated my brain that Skippy's lunges for my heart didn't always land.)The book also got me thinking, in a peculiar way, about genre. When J.D. Salinger wrote The Catcher in the Rye half a dozen decades ago, he couldn't have predicted that he'd be launching a full-blown Genre -- as codified, artificial and durable as the black-hat western or the hard-boiled mystery. I realize that a long tradition of bildungsromans preceded Catcher, but modern practitioners of the coming-of-age story owe a major debt to Salinger that they don't really owe to, say, Studs Lonigan, so I think it's safe to diagnose Holden Caulfield as Patient Zero of this particular strain. While I was reading Skippy Dies, I went to see Richard Ayoade's Submarine, a pretty good coming-of-age film that gooses the genre with just enough stylistic brio and critical self-awareness to feel fresh rather than rehashed. Other neo-Holden narratives are less resourceful: I skipped The Art of Getting By (released just one week after Submarine opened in Chicago!) but A.O. Scott dismissed it (and the overexposure of the genre in question) with this awesomely acidic opening line: "Someday every overprivileged, misunderstood high school boy who has ever come of age in New York will have his own movie, and one good thing about The Art of Getting By is that it brings that day, the day we can move on to other matters, a little closer." That's a great zinger, but it also speaks to the weariness (and wariness) that many of us feel toward this familiar narrative pattern, whether on the page or the screen.The fallacy of the coming-of-age story is its denial of what should be an obvious truth: human beings "come of" every age. It's not like you turn 25 and suddenly have it all figured out. (I should know, having turned 25 last month and feeling less wise than ever.) We're constantly adapting and trying to figure out just what the hell we're supposed to be doing. That condition is not unique to adolescence, and the pernicious fictions of this genre may be the ones that pretend otherwise. One reason why Rushmore was and is such a revelatory jumpstart to this genre is its implicit suggestion that Bill Murray's character has been puttering around for the last 30 years under the same shroud of foggy delusion and melancholy as the film's teenage protagonist. See also The Squid and the Whale's emphasis on the complicatedly assholish father and the tension generated by the son's possible -- but not yet definite -- inheritance of said assholish qualities. I guess what I'm saying is that a good coming-of-age story makes room for something larger than itself, something beyond the well-established micro-verities of Teens Learning About Life & Love as represented by that meaningless yet unforgettable Blink-182 refrain, "I guess this is growing up." Skippy Dies, more overtly than most narratives of its ilk, strives for this sense of something bigger than teen angst. Something really bigger, as in, like, cosmic, looking toward a multidimensional theory of the universe called "M-theory", as well as obscure histories of the first world war. Characters' private obsessions provide our access to these expansions, while Murray does a nice job of drawing them into the text with parallels and thematic resonance without being overly transparent. There's further expansion in the large cast of characters, sometimes excessively so: Murray perhaps foolhardily insists on limning the consciousnesses of nearly everyone who plays even a minor role in the drama. There were too many occasions, throughout my reading, when I wanted Murray to quit hovering around a single character's perspective and retreat to the God's-eye POV he uses too sparingly; the book is never better than when Murray steps back and provides an all-seeing overview of the boarding-school community at large. (See the chapter from pages 277-280, about the boys' preparations for a concert audition, for a sterling example of what I wanted more of.) But Murray seems determined to pose the question of just who exactly is coming of age here, and when it works, this wide-net-casting does help him transcend the limitations of the genre -- sort of. Even with the expansions, there's very little here that's new or surprising; but even without the expansions, Murray's sharp wit and perspicacity would probably still carry Skippy to the finish line with charm and wisdom to spare. He sings a familiar song but adds a few verses, tweaks the lyrics so they're funnier, throws in a weird bridge, and croons in a voice that could shame a nightingale. Still, he adopts too many other voices along the way, and none of them can quite sing loud enough to drown out the choral drone of genre. But that's no big deal, really. I guess this is growing up.
427201581	What do you say about a guy who can kill off his main character in the first two pages, then proceed to lead you by the nose through some six hundred pages more, pages in which you feel your heart palpitate, your fingers clinch, your scalp tighten, your teeth grind, your legs tremble? Can you hear me strummingOn the strings of your heart? Have you ever wanted to sit down right after finishing a good book and with a handheld loudspeaker as big as the earth sing into the cosmos just how good it is, only to find that when you finished, which was a tenacious battle in itself, what with the people ringing the doorbell, people ringing the phone, people asking you questions, people talking about the latest tennis star they want to have sexual relations with, people who say, "You know what? You oughta talk to Dr. Tree (changing names to protect the not-so-innocent, his real name is Busch, in case you were wondering - oops) and see if he can do something about those sniffles. You know, I had him jab that thing in my back when the summer turned off cold and it's still not helpin me all that much. So, you never know, might be just as good on your own..." people who ask you, "Coke or Pepsi? Doritos or Ruffles...or Lays?" and then it's lunchtime and you should probably eat something but you just wish you could keep talking, keep trying to get it out (Carver) and still the momentum of the earth is spinning you out of control, the whole thing is a whirl, a dervish, a...frisbee spinning into the nether reaches of the universe and sometimes you hear a song, possibly one streaming on YouTube, that tells you "Everybody Hurts, Sometimes" and you think, Sometimes? what if it's always? does that make me abnormal? but while you were reading the book you found that everyone is feeling overwhelmed nowadays because there's just too much but the more you try to medicate the more it seems to pile up because you've short-circuited the wiring in your mind (not that is was ever wired properly, har har) so all you can do is keep going, keep pounding out the notes, the keys, keeping tossing the frisbee in hopes that there will be someone listening, or someone on the other end who might catch it and let you know there was in fact someone out there, but still the tedium mounts, and outside the window someone's tire screech, a tire that is round, encompassing its own rubbery cosmos and someone yells, "Yeah, fuck you buddy," and the other, and lady wearing a green knit hat, extends a finger outside a partially rolled down window as she speeds off and the smoke billows from the rusted tailpipe to float off, dissipating, into the nether regions of the universe. And you sit back and think, So, that's why I never seem to get anything done. Moments pass. Maybe more, maybe less. It could be a single instant, or it could be next Tuesday. At some point, no matter how fleeting, or wide, as big as the universe, as small as an elusive string, your thoughts coalesce and all the joy and ache of living you find is summed up for you inside this book, the one that rests inside your Kindle, your Nook, or sits there in all its overweight glory, between hardcovers, on your lap. And you know that as chaotic as this journey was, there is truth to it and that truth can set you free. If only for a moment. But it is long enough.
139499785	I'm a teenager roughly the same age as the characters in Skippy Dies. I read this whole book from cover to cover hoping that it would end up being as good as I had heard it was. It wasn't. I enjoy reading and finish almost all books that I start and it was my determination to never give up on a book that made me finish this one, but I really wish I hadn't. Throughout the six hundred some pages I don't think I laughed once. This was one of the most boring books I have ever read. I try to keep an open mind if I'm not enjoying a book at the beginning and that's what I did with Skippy Dies. I kept thinking that maybe it was a slow starter or the majority of the book was boring but the ending would be really good or that it would somehow turn into a really good book, but that never happened. Reading this book was absolute torture. I found myself quite happy when it looked like the majority of the characters would end up dying or killing themselves only to be disappointed when they failed to do so. There were so many long, rambling, nearly unintelligible paragraphs that had nothing to do with the plot that I almost put this book down many times. I don't how anyone thinks this a good book. This was honestly one of the worst books I have ever read in my life and I'd advise anyone that reads this review to never even think about reading it.
1199110648	Before even opening the first page, readers know precisely what will happen in this incredible novel: Skippy will die. So the question becomes: who is Skippy and why should we care?Skippy is 14-year-old Daniel Juster, an unfortunate nickname he acquired because of his resemblance to a TV kangaroo. He has been exiled – with all the best intentions – to a pricey Catholic boarding school in Dublin (Seabrook College) while his parents sort through a tragedy-in-the-making. In the first few pages, we meet him and his best friend, an obese computer nerd named Ruprecht, and by page 5, Skippy has already expired in the midst of a doughnut-eating race…leaving behind a cryptic message written in raspberry jelly: “Tell Lori.”Most of the time, 14 year olds aren’t inherently interesting; they are often portrayed as sullen men on the cusp of adulthood, driven by their hormones – in short, stereotypes. Yet one of the rewards of Skippy Dies is Paul Murray’s spot-on and well-rounded look into the angst, joys, dreams and humiliations of this tender age. As the book meanders backwards – to Skippy’s school life before his death – and forward, to the effect of Skippy’s premature demise on those who knew him, we see a virtual train wreck about to happen, and yet are powerless to stop the trajectory. The book introduces us to Skippy and examines the precipitous events that lead to his death from many perspectives: students such as his roommate Ruptecht and the delectable love-interest Lori…Howard the Coward, a history teacher who seeks meaning without commitment…Carl, Skippy’s rival in love and a budding psychopath…Greg (the Automator), the Acting Principal who is goal-oriented to a fault, and various other teachers, priests and hangers-on.Yet Skippy Dies is far from an intricate character study. Within these pages, Paul Murray confidently interweaves many topics: quantum physics and the possibility of alternative universes, Irish folklore and mysticism, the lies of history including the forgotten tale of the all-Irish D Company and their doom at Gallipoli in World War I, diet pill drug dealing, the tyranny of eating disorders, sexual abuse of teens by priests (although credit Paul Murray for providing a twist), ethics versus pragmatism, and the effects of family dissolution and illness.All of these characters – all of these topics – are, Paul Murray suggests, a part of the big picture. He writes, “Maybe instead of strings it’s stories things are made of, an infinite number of tiny vibrating stories; once upon a time they all were part of one big giant superstory, except it got broken up into a jillion different pieces, that’s why no story on its own makes any sense, and so what you have to do in la life is try and weave it back together, my story into your story, our stories into all the other people’s we know, until you’ve got something that to God or whoever might look like a letter or even a whole word…” Read it to discover this whole word. Read it to gain insights into the lives of boys who are struggling with the juncture between faith and reason, between childhood and adulthood, between loneliness and connection. Read it for the dark comedy and the resulting tragedy. Read it to marvel at the skill of a writer who can juggle so many balls simultaneously without dropping a single one. But most of all, just read it It’s a marvel.
2065270695	Απ την πρώτη σελίδα του βιβλίου,γίνεται ακριβώς αυτό που λέει ο τίτλος:ο. Skippy πεθαίνει.Από εκεί και πέρα,για 600 και κάτι σελίδες, μαθαίνουμε ποιος είναι ο Skippy,η παρέα τους και η ζωή τους σ' ένα καθολικό, Ιρλανδικό boarding school.Ο συγγραφέας κατάφερε να ασχοληθεί με ένα σωρό θέματα: εφηβεία και ο,τι αυτό συνεπάγεται (άγχος,εμμονή με το σεξ,βήματα προς την ενηλικίωση κλπ),ναρκωτικά,χάπια αδυνατίσματος,κέλτικη μυθολογία ακόμα και τη θεωρία των χορδών.Μάλιστα,χρησιμοποίησε αυτή τη θεωρία για να πει ότι η εφηβεία είναι ένα σύμπαν "built out of loneliness"(ναι, είναι,αλλά παιδιά,μη βιάζεστε να μεγαλώσετε, σοβαρά).Όλα αυτά τα προσέγγισε με χιούμορ, ευαισθησία,αλλά και κυνισμό.Θα μπορούσαμε να πούμε ότι μέσα από αυτό το βιβλίο,παίρνουμε μια ιδέα του-με ένα ευπρόσδεκτο touch υπερβολής και σουρρεαλισμού-πως είναι να είσαι έφηβος σε μια κλειστή, καθολική κοινωνία (εννοείται μπορούν να γίνει αναγωγή στη δικιά μας χριστιανική).Όσο για τη γραφή, απολαυστική και ρέει εύκολα.600 κάτι σελίδες ένιωσα ότι έφυγαν σαν νεράκι.Πολύ καλή δουλειά,που μου θυμίζει γιατί αγαπάω τους Ιρλανδούς (εκτός απ' το ότι ξέρουν από ουίσκι).
199131065	Mother loves Ruprecht. Lori loves Skippy. God loves everybody. To hear people talk, you would think no one ever did anything but love each other. But when you look for it, when you search out this love everyone is always talking about, it is nowhere to be found; and when someone looks for love from you, you find you are not able to give it, you are not able to hold the trust and dreams they want you to hold, any more than you could cradle water in your arms.Love is tough. Death is tough. Adolescence is tough. So are boarding schools, bungee jumping accidents, unfaithfulness, drug use, and myriad other things Paul Murray investigates in Skippy Dies. Murray enjoys pointing out the tough things - the heartbreaking, soul-crushing, spirit-rending details of life. That this is a thoroughly depressing book came as a complete surprise to me; I mean, I knew from the title that Skippy dies, but everything I could divine from its exterior led me to believe that this is a precious, cute little thing along the lines of Wes Anderson's Rushmore or Jason Reitman's Juno.But Murray pulls the same trick that David Foster Wallace pulls in his wonderful Infinite Jest: he sets everything up with a comic and cutesy aura, but soon plunges into the depths of the dark soul of humanity. The comparison between Skippy Dies and Infinite Jest doesn't end there. They each share an obsession with drugs (pharmaceutical and otherwise), wonderfully embody the universal quality of loneliness, feature a cavalcade of quirkily named boarding school adolescents, and stretch to a length that seems daunting but seem too short upon completion. This is really Infinite Jest Lite and my first reaction was to accuse it of being derivative, but I've changed my mind. There's plenty here to distinguish it.Proposition: love, if it exists at all, does so primarily as an organizing myth, or a similar nature to God. Or: love is analogous to gravity, as postulated in recent theories, that is to say, what we experience faintly, sporadically, as love is in actuality the distant emanation of another world, the faraway glow of a love-universe that by the time it gets to us has almost no warmth left.So Skippy dies. You learn that on page six, but the reasons and circumstances are unclear. The narrative rewinds and follows Skippy's discovery of the lovely Lori, their falling in and out of love, Skippy's death, and the way in which his friends, teachers, and loved ones respond to his death. The characters are incredibly compelling. Skippy seems very real, a normal kind of real - a fourteen year old confused about love, who falls head over heels for the first beautiful girl he sees through a telescope (who's completely out of his league, but the heart wants what the heart wants...), who hides the secret of his messed up family in the fear that if he speaks it, it becomes real. There is also Ruprecht, Skippy's roommate, and obese, brilliant boy obsessed with string theory, who responds to Skippy's death with a remarkably realistic and heartrending breakdown. The teacher Howard, refugee of a terribly botched job in finance, running from the dark event in his past which earned him the nickname "Howard the Coward", trying to make a difference in someone's life. And Carl, the school's "resident psycho", a bully whose confusion over life, love, porn, etc. drives him to cut himself, who doesn't understand his violent sexual feelings toward women, much less how to deal with his crushing guilt.So in a book this dark, what is the redeeming value that pulls this back from the brink of melodrama and despair? Well, that's the fun of this book and it'd be a spoiler to tell you. Just read the book. Love the characters. Think about it for every second of every day after reading it, like I've done, and treasure it.
435797547	Skippy Dies reminded me of adolescence. It lasted forever, and I thought it'd never end.Maybe its writer so intended; however, this coming of age novel feels like author/pilot Paul Murray got this jumbo jetliner in the air and then didn't know how or where to land it. He improvised instead, with a crash landing at page 661.Some of the improvisation is quite good. A number of scenes provoke out loud laughter. Witty dialogue isn't infrequent. The novel tells the parallel stories of a teenaged student at an Irish boarding school who feels trapped and of one of his young teachers who feels likewise. It's an interesting variation. Some scenes are quite poignant and powerful.It's not enough, though, to keep this novel from being an unfocused mess. This book features, for example, narratives of video games played by the title character -- pages and pages of video game narratives. Skippy's roommate engages in a quest to travel to other dimensions using string theory concepts. His fuzzy internal musings and calculations run for pages and pages and pages.Blaise Pascal wrote "I have only made this letter longer because I have not had the time to make it shorter."Author Paul Murray was born in 1975. He had time to make Skippy Dies shorter. If Murray had cut this novel by 200 to 300 pages, he would have likely made a solid contribution to coming of age fiction. It would not have been a masterpiece, though. Too many of the characters are caricatures. Subplots and complications are dropped randomly into the story with little development or foreshadowing. The exclusive use of the third person present tense imposes unnecessary narrative limitations. The novel's structure simply doesn't arise above first draft quality.Skippy Dies may be an attempt to demonstrate the true lack of reality of the overly familiar coming of age novel. Maybe. If so, it could have been done so much better.
3581551221	Skippy tussen de sterren stond al een hele tijd in mijn vizier, lang voor ‘The beesting’ verscheen, maar toch was er iets wat mij weerhield om het te lezen. De dikte van het boek zat er zeker iets voor tussen, want je bent er een tijdje zoet mee. Toch was er nog iets anders waar ik de vinger niet kon opleggen.Toen ik het dan toch ontleende aan de bib stond het plots niet meer in de afdeling voor de volwassenen, maar bij de YA-afdeling. Dat was het dus. Het is eigenlijk een boek voor jongeren, maar het is zoals andere goede jeugdboeken perfect genietbaar voor de iets ouderen onder ons.Skippy leest als een trein en bevat alle grote themas waar jongeren mee geconfronteerd worden, zelfbeeld, sociale druk, prestatiedrang( of net niet), drugs, misbruik enz..Paul Murray slaagt er zeer goed in om de jongerentaal weer te geven en schept zo een geloofwaardige wereld.Is het boek perfect? Misschien niet. Maar ik vond het voor nu het perfecte leesvoer.****1/2
6325966635	Wow. Reading this book was truly a magical experience that I did not want to end. I devoured 661 pages of text in 2.5 days. I literally could not put this book down. And when I did put it down so I can sleep and take my dog out for a walk, the story kept on living in my head. Paul Murray has created a true masterpiece and it is one of the funniest and darkest books I've ever read. So, what is the book about? Well, it's in the title. Our hero, a 14 year old student Skippy at the Christian boarding school called Seabrook dies. Why he dies is a mystery and we are forced to relive the days prior to his death. We follow Skippy along with his friends at Seabrook College and also some of the teachers. Murray creates a world filled with hilarity and adolescent truths like nothing I've ever read before. This novel is packed with unforgettable characters and the plot line that is perfectly paced. When I say that the characters are unforgettable, I truly mean that. Once I finished the book, I felt immediate sadness because I will no longer be able to spend time with these characters. They will stay with me for a long long time. I want to highlight the dialogue in this novel. No one writes dialogue the way Paul Murray does it. Each character feels unique and memorable. Many of the characters of this book are teenagers and Murray truly makes the reader feel like these are real teenagers who talk like teenagers do. Their conversations are highly vulgar and utterly hilarious. I cannot remember the last time I laughed so hard while reading a book. Behind the hilarity are real adult themes and Murray explores them skillfully and subtly.Skippy Dies is an amazing work of fiction. It is, by far, the best book I've read in 2024 and one of the best books I've ever read. Paul Murray has a new fan and I will be checking out his The Bee Sting in the near future. I'm going to need some time before I do that, so I can properly digest Skippy Dies. I would recommend this book to any fans of literary fiction. I would also suggest this book to any fans of books about teens written for adults. If you're a fan of dark humor, you cannot go wrong with this book. This book has a large cast of characters and it is intricately plotted so some readers might like that about this book as well. Overall, just read this book! It is absolutely amazing and unforgettable. Without a doubt, it is going on my 6 stars shelf and I haven't added a book to that shelf in a long time. A triumph!
1344182738	What a remarkable book! String theory, multiverses, video games, and Celtic myth mixed with adolescent Irish boys' crazed sexual fantasies, along with teacher angst, marriage eruptions, betrayals, the horrible injustice of life, drug trips, the deeply moving history of Irish soldiers in WW I, and the cruel things we humans do and the unreliable stories we tell to avoid the inconvenience of truth—all presented in what feels like a modern-day Dickens serial, although it is in one very long (661 pages) book. The unnumbered chapters feel like installments—switching protagonists and writer's point of view. Although common wisdom might say this would be a mess, it isn't. It works. It would also work well as a television series—the kind of BBC series, taking place in Dublin, centered around a boys' prep school, that Americans would love and find exotic. Another reason for this suggestion of a translation into film is that the dialogue is wonderful—more wonderful than the narrative; the vocabulary and particularly the choice of verbs in order to avoid repeating "said" sometimes feels forced. But that is a minor complaint. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is a story about all the stories we tell and the "whole" comprising the connections of all the stories. But this is far too complicated to explain in a puny review. Suffice it to say this is a multilayered and funny book; never before have I laughed so hard at people throwing up. For a tiny sample of the writing, here's a new interpretation (page 350) of Robert Frost's poem "The Road Not Taken":"I've been thinking about that Robert Frost poem," he says. "I don't think it's about making choices at all.""What's it about, so?" Geoff says."Anal sex," Dennis says."Anal sex?""How'd you figure, Dennis?""Well, once you see it, it's pretty obvious. Just look at what he says. He's in a wood, right? He sees two roads in front of him. He takes the one less travelled. What else could it be about?Thank you, Will Byrnes, for informing me about this book!
244298062	This book makes me want to jump up and down. I want to go to people's houses and knock on their doors and not only have them read it, to read it to them. I want to watch them read it. I guess that's more a reaction than a review, huh? If we go by the premise that people read novels because we need stories, Skippy Dies succeeds by setting out a story where a chain of events is set in motion and the reaches a conclusion, and the entire trip from beginning to end is compelling. We go with the characters and we catch glimpses of where they're headed, and as we go we want for those characters, and we worry about them. Murray ties the story together without it feeling forced, and cleverly, I thought, avoiding the trap of making it pat.However, if the book were just a linear path, a story that made sense, I might appreciate that, but I certainly wouldn't feel a burning desire to make everyone read this too. The story is the backbone, but this novel is fleshed out.I loved all the literary parallels that Murray includes. One of the reasons is that they blend into the fabric of the story and Murray doesn't bonk you on the head with them. He's got these themes going on. Finally, a small delight - while I read it, I, a mathphobic, and science idiot felt like I could understand physics! Additionally, I want to go out read about the First World War. Don't be afraid, this is not a huge part of the book. You don't need an interest in cosmology or history to enjoy Skippy Dies.
126439980	How frustrating. I was really enjoying this -- it took a while to get into it, but I did, and was finding it magical, funny, and menacing all at once... -- and I somehow left it on a plane. Shame on me. Will buy again when out in paperback. ...So four months later I finished it. I won't comment too much because my experience reading it was so choppy. But it had verve and spirit, even if it was a bit too long.
7990379289	4.5Huge, immersive, peopled by brilliantly conceived characters, and eventually profound, despite its cynical and tragic underbelly. It's sort of like an expanded novel of The Inbetweeners. Yes, it's miles too long, but you can forgive it that, as it's so funny and entertaining.
120245736	** spoiler alert ** Tedious, confused, cliche, and over-plotted. Editing and occlusions were to have saved most from seeing this but I don't think it quite worked.This isn't a bad book but not deserving of the hype it has received...perhaps it's just one of those books that critics love...but readers avoid.I really couldn't see what this book was about: the school, the students, the teachers, the priests, pedophilia (topical cliche), dysfunctional relationships and people, school politics....all of these of course and so much more....and, say, has anyone see Godot lately?! :-)The style was competent but not lyrical...no poetry...which is what I equate Irish Literary Fiction with.I hung in there until the pathetic conclusion which wasn't one at all...typical...one expected there to be no end....the mess just continues...or the reader assumes so when they finish...which is supposed to be part of the message I suppose...if so most would have picked up on that 10 pages in...not very enlightening.That's my biggest gripe against this book...it is so damn obvious and so tediously predictable I just could not see the point of spending all that time on it...either writing or reading it.I'm giving the book three stars because it is competently rendered even if I don't see why anyone would read it....or should have written it. But I am not recommending it...just wouldn't be fair to some unsuspecting reader.
1533418545	This Irish book is brilliant. It's a little slow to start, but well worth the patience. You may think that having a title like, "Skippy Dies" gives away some critical plot points, but it's really about the ensemble cast of characters and their seemingly fractured stories in the periphery of Skippy's life whom we follow through these mundane, tragic, and spectral events. And it's actually a boarding school book which does an excellent job capturing voice, dialogue, and mood. Rare. My favorite takeaway? History is more about what's left out of the official transcript, forced out of the collective memory, than what is actually included. Indeed, memorializing past events gives us the permission to forget, but a few of us remember.
2395773745	3*, 6,5/10Finito, finalmente!L'ho trovato molto discontinuo, con capitoli bellissimi e struggenti e altri che si trascinano infiniti fra seghe mentali e seghe reali. Mi sembrava di seguire una serie in tv: che diavolo può succedere ancora per farne un altro paio di puntate? Perché questa storia, fra le innumerevoli altre storie che si riproducono come frattali nelle 800erotti pagine, non la finisce qui? E perché di quest'altra invece non conosciamo la fine? La "gita" di Carl dal Druido, per esempio: necessaria, sì? Anche alcuni personaggi poi: la sgradevole prof superfiga, la trovo un cliché; il preside è talmente cretino che pare finto; i frati pedofili e il coach toccaccione da difendere ad oltranza per l'onore della scuola: figure e situazioni troppo scontate. Perché poi fa al lettore una lezione sulla prima guerra mondiale? Cribbio, sono già 800erotti pagine, abbi pietà, raccontamela un'altra volta.E nonostante le 800erotti pagine mi sembra un libro non concluso.Quindi, non mi è piaciuto? Alla fine sì, un po'mi è piaciuto. Mi sono piaciuti i ragazzini, la capacità dell'autore di ricreare la testa suonata degli adolescenti e la loro fatica enorme a diventare grandi e a trovare sé stessi; la cecità degli adulti che appena usciti dalle superiori pare si scordino di com'erano e perdono la capacità di ascoltare; la solitudine di ognuno, piccolo o grande, granello di energia dispersa nell'universo che ne ha fin qui per mantenere a galla sé stesso e scarsa attenzione nei confronti degli altri; il bisogno di sentirsi importanti per un qualcuno che ci àncori alla realtà e ci impedisca di volare via; la fine dei sogni e l'ipocrisia della bella società. Insomma brevi cenni sul "multiverso", un casino di carne al fuoco, forse è per quello mi sembra non concluso.Edit: la notte porta consiglio, i commenti andrebbero scritti almeno dopo averci dormito su. La mia risposta a Minty spiega un po' perché ho tolto una stellina.
114855384	It just now struck me how perfect the title of this book is. When people asked what I was reading as I carried this around over the last few weeks (many assumed it was the Bible, because it's a big 700-page, white hardcover), they all more or less had the same reaction. Skippy DIES? SKIPPY dies? That just sounds depressing and tragic. I mean, someone DIES. On like the first page no less. On the other hand...his name is SKIPPY. That just sounds childish and silly. It turns out that "silly and tragic" is an exact description of the tone of this incredibly entertaining novel, which certainly borrows from DFW's Infinite Jest, but is considerably "simpler" or "less verbose" or "written by a mere mortal instead of a penetrating hyper-intelligence from another dimension (which is in no way a bad thing)".The book follows a crew of 14 year olds in an all-boys academy in Dublin, and thankfully Murray absolutely nails what it is to be that age: the immature banter between the lads, the endless preoccupation with the ladies, the youthful optimism and belief that anything is possible -- it's all really great, and a blast to spend time with such a colorful and well-developed group of characters.Much like the title is a little bit childish and a little bit serious, the story gets a lot of mileage out of introducing very real and very serious life siutations into the lives of these kids. On one page, the boys talk about farts and tell yo' mama jokes. On the next page, there are harrowing accounts of drug abuse, pregnancy, depression and anxiety. It almost seemed unreal: it had me struggling to recall if these are the kinds of things I went through back at that age. And I do remember: how belittling someone in front of a group of peers makes you feel cool. How being able to kiss a beautiful girl seems like the most important thing in the world. How the future seems so far away, but having the sense that things you do today will somehow greatly affect it. How anything seems possible, but starting to realize that maybe for you, very little of anything actually is.The adults in this story -- the teachers, parents, coaches, priests -- are quite rightly described as no different from the children. Just because you're an adult, doesn't mean you stop chasing women, or try to look cool in front of peers, or make immature decisions that greatly affect your future. Adults are just kids in adult bodies. And what the book does well to point out is that these kids were looking for someone to look up to, to talk to about their problems, to stand up and BE an adult -- and they are generally let down, because the adults all have their own problems, themselves with no one to talk to, and on and on and on.If anything, this is about how desperately everyone wants to be understood, but the people who are supposedly close to us often know nothing about us. And, we often don't look up from our own lives enough to know anything about those we are supposedly close to. It IS sad, depressing, tragic -- but never overwhelmingly so. Murray (like DFW) keeps it humourous and light, so you're not bawling your eyes out, but those moments, when they come, hit pretty hard.This is really excellent work, and there's lots of things to unpack in here -- great characters, above average prose, an interesting story, several important themes -- it's got it all, and if you're thinking of giving this a go, I seriously doubt you'll be disappointed.
1601233350	Best postmodern epic about string theory ever.Murray's sprawling coming-of-age book about the buildup to and fallout from Skippy's death owes equal debts to Infinite Jest and Brian Greene. It's always a page-turner, as heady as some of its ideas are. This is a major book.
3206076846	Jeder kennt das: Im Buchladen lacht einen ein Cover an, man liest den Klappentext, denkt sich: Och ja, klingt interessant, und nimmt das Buch mit. Dann steht es im Regal. Und steht da und steht da. Nur gelesen wird es nicht. Warum auch immer. Thema interessiert doch nicht wirklich, schlechte Kritik in der Tagespresse, man hat gerade anderes, wichtigeres zu tun. Tausend Gründe. Dann wird das Buch – vielleicht Jahre später – irgendwo erwähnt, man erinnert sich, da war doch was – und greift endlich beherzt zu.SKIPPY STIRBT (SKIPPY DIES, Original erschienen 2010, Deutsch 2012) wurde in Bret Easton Ellis´ Essayband WEISS (2019) lobend erwähnt und kam dem Rezensenten so wieder in den Sinn. Also wurde es gelesen. Und die Lektüre hat sich im Großen und Ganzen gelohnt. Eine irische Coming-of-Age-Geschichte, die an etliche Coming-of-Age-Geschichten aus den USA erinnert, was es zunächst schwierig macht, den Roman richtig zu verorten. Ein Elite-College in Dublin, gegründet und zumeist geführt von katholischen Priestern, durch dessen Alltag der Leser einer Freundesgruppe unter den Schülern folgt, zugleich aber auch den Erlebnissen eines Lehrers, der selbst Schüler an der Schule war und nun durch eine Midlife-Crisis geht. Es dauert, bis man all die Namen geordnet hat, bis deutlich wird, wer hier wer ist. Ruprecht Van Doren, ein verfetteter aber genialischer Schüler, der titelgebende Skippy, der schon auf den ersten Seiten stirbt, bevor die Geschichte einsetzt und uns berichtet wird, wie es dazu kam, daß dieser Junge das Zeitliche segnete, Dennis, ein sich zynisch gebender junger Mann (die Schüler sind alle ca. 12 Jahre alt), Carl, Drogendealer und mit durchaus psychopathischen Zügen ausgestattet, schließlich Lori, in die sich Skippy unsterblich verliebt und die ihn wider Erwarten sogar erhört. Sie verbringen eine keusche aber wunderbare Nacht im Anschluß an ein Schulfest, was wiederum die Aufmerksamkeit von Carl erregt, der Anspruch auf Lori erhebt – Anspruch im wahrsten Sinne des Wortes. Und so wird ein Reigen von zwischenmenschlichen Verwerfungen, von Freund- und Feindschaften, von Irrungen und Wirrungen unter den Schülern in Gang gesetzt, die schließlich dramatische, ja tragische Folgen zeitigen.Paul Murray erzählt diesen Reigen in einem ironisch angehauchten Ton, manchmal ins Zynische abgleitend, sich der Tragik, die der Geschichte innewohnt, jedoch bewußt. Dabei entsteht ein seltsamer Hybrid von einem Buch. Murray gelingt es, die Verlorenheit dieser Jungs – dies ist, man muß es so deutlich konstatieren, ein Jungsbuch – zu veranschaulichen, die Struktur einer Institution wie dieses Seabrook-Colleges, die schwächere Kinder schlicht zu vergessen scheint, spürbar zu machen. Er zeigt die Machtfülle der Lehrer, aber auch die Zwänge, denen sie unterliegen. Gerade anhand von Howard, jenem Mann in der Midlife-Crisis, der sich als Geschichtslehrer müht, seinen Schülern ein Bewußtsein historischer Abläufe zu vermitteln, ihnen trockenes Wissen mit Anschauungsmaterial und emotionalisierenden Geschichten näher zu bringen, der dabei aber von einem Lehrapparat und einer Schulleitung, die vor allem an reibungslosen Abläufen und der Erfüllung der Curricula interessiert ist, gehindert wird, steht hier exemplarisch. Wer in diesem System aus den vorgegebenen Abläufen ausbricht, wer sich nur ein Gran von den ausgetretenen Pfaden entfernt, stößt allenthalben auf erbitterten Widerstand.Episodisch erzählt Murray also von den diversen Erlebnissen seines literarischen Personals. Eine wirkliche Handlung gibt es nicht, als roter Faden dienen Skippys Verliebtheit, Ruprechts Versuche, in neue Dimensionen vorzustoßen, den zeitlichen Rahmen stecken diverse schulische Veranstaltungen ab – das schon erwähnte Fest, ein Schwimmwettbewerb, die 140-Jahr-Feier des Colleges. Angefüllt sind die immerhin fast 800 Seiten des Romans mit etlichen Episoden aus dem Leben der Schüler und Lehrer. Dabei erfasst Murray sowohl die pubertären Probleme der Heranwachsenden, als auch jene des krisengeschüttelten Howard recht gut. Die Frage ist, wie das eine sich zum andern verhält und ob die Verbindungen zwischen den Jungen und dem Lehrer zwingend sind. Und der Leser muß sich fragen, ob er wirklich über solch eine lange Lesestrecke die dauernden Beleidigungen der Jungen untereinander ertragen will, die sich vornehmlich mit „Spast“ oder „Idiot“ oder „Homo“ anreden, was zwar durchaus der Realität entsprechen mag, auf die Dauer aber ermüdend wirkt. Und auch die Probleme von Howard sind letztlich nicht originell erzählt, daß man nun wirklich bahnbrechend Neues über das Problem der männlichen Midlife-Crisis erfahre würde. Dazu ist Murrays Betrachtung nicht tief genug und seine Sprache zu oberflächlich.Das ist Murrays Kernproblem: So sehr seine Hauptfiguren – eben vor allem Skippy und Ruprecht, sowie Howard – charakterlich auch ausgetüftelt sein mögen, so viel Mühe er sich gibt, sie differenziert zu zeichnen und mit Leben zu erfüllen, zu viele der Nebenfiguren enden im Klischee. Sei es der zynische Direktor, der nur an eigener Macht und wenig an seinen Schülern interessiert ist, dessen Gattin, die zugleich seine Sekretärin ist und rundweg als Dummchen gezeichnet wird – und damit exemplarisch für die wenigen Frauen in diesem Roman steht, die alle durchweg durchtrieben, dümmlich oder sexgesteuert sind – , ob die Pater, die nach und nach die Macht über die Schule verlieren und derer sich gleich zwei mit pädophilen Gedanken herumschlagen, die sie zum Glück nicht ausleben, während der Schwimmlehrer, der sich nach eigenen Angaben an dem jungen Skippy vergangen hat, von der Schule hinfort gelobt wird, ob Lori, Skippys Objekt der Begierde, oder etliche, für die Handlung weniger wichtige Schüler, deren Eltern und Lehrer – zu oft bedient sich Murray im Baukasten des College-Romans und der entsprechenden Sprachbilder. Manchmal gewinnt er dem darin Enthaltenen noch eigene, das Klischee brechende Ideen ab, die den Leser schmunzeln lassen, zu häufig aber macht er es sich einfach. Zu einfach.So entsteht irgendwann der Eindruck, daß der ganze Roman auf dem schlüpfrigen Sand der billigen Kolportage aufgebaut wurde. Es ist wohlfeil, sich über reiche, aber an ihren Kindern wenig interessierte Eltern lustig zu machen, es ist ebenso wohlfeil, jede Wendung aufzugreifen, die ein Internats-Roman bietet, ohne sie in irgendeiner Weise zu brechen, es ist zu einfach, sich eines Personals zu bedienen, das dem Leser aus etlichen Romane von J.D. Salinger bis Thomas Woolfe bekannt vorkommt und es einfach nur ins Irische zu wenden. Und es ist viel zu einfach – und in gewisser Weise auch verharmlosend – das Thema „Mißbrauch“ zwar anzuschneiden, dann aber auf möglichst simple, gar verharmlosende Art und Weise zu behandeln und im Grunde fallen zu lassen. Ist der Roman an vielen Stellen trotz seiner Mängel doch gut lesbar, unterhaltsam und auch anrührend, wird es an dieser Stelle ärgerlich. Denn nötig für die Entwicklung der Geschichte oder den dramatischen Ereignisse sind diese Einsprengsel nicht. So bleibt der ungute Eindruck, daß der Autor hier eher eine Pflichtaufgabe abgehakt hat, weil er sich möglicherweise dachte, ein Roman über ein dezidiert katholisches College in Dublin ohne Bezug zum Mißbrauch durch einen (oder mehrere) Priester, sei nicht möglich.Sieht man von dieser wirklich unangenehmen Tatsache ab, ist SKIPPY STIRBT, wie so viele Romane der letzten Jahre, immer noch zu lang und nicht kohärent, manchmal zu klischeehaft und oft sprachlich nicht unbedingt fesselnd, aber dennoch ein weitestgehend unterhaltsamer Roman, dem es eben auch gelingt, die Nöte der (männlichen) Pubertät gut auszustellen, wenn auch mit gelegentlich etwas derben und holzschnittartigen Mitteln. Ein Buch für zwischendurch, leicht lesbar, interessant genug, um dran zu bleiben, ohne wirklichen Tiefgang und ganz sicher kein Roman, das den Leser allzu sehr fordert. Manchmal bergen Regale mit „vergessenen“ Büchern gerade für solche Gelegenheiten doch die eine oder andere Entdeckung.
219425090	As I read Skippy Dies I occasionally had the feeling that I was watching a PG-15 movie. (That’s a little more raunchy than PG-13.)I am not sure why but the paperback edition that I have is divided into three volumes in a slipcase. The sections are labeled Hopeland, Heartland, and Ghostland. On the cover of each section there are brief words that purport to summarize that segment of the book and show that it is odd and funny and campy. These things may have had more to do with the publisher than the author. Since this book is 661 pages long, it is nice to have portable sections that might each fit into a purse or backpack. But my purse is small (a Central American clutch with a woven strap that goes very nicely under or over a sports coat) so I don’t experience that benefit. On occasion the book gets philosophical and scientific and adultish and tender. And did I say funny? Yes, all that and juvenile as well. Five out of six ain’t bad but the juvenile was more pervasive than I liked. To be fair, I often do not like humorous books although I can enjoy humorous sections of serious books. Skippy Dies just tried too hard to be funny for my taste. Just call me a fuddy duddy. Maybe if I went to a Catholic boy’s school, it would be funnier. But, thank goodness, I did not have that experience. For sacrilegious, this book gets a definite plus but that is so easy with a Catholic school setting. And, in our sexually abusive world, priests and their ilk are such easy targets. Do we need a morality tale about sin and man/boy love? Not just a morality tale, but a 661 page morality tale?Skippy is vaguely funny in a sophomoric way right up until the superficial real world crashes down. Until Skippy’s roommate is told that his imagined world is just that, not real at all. The world can be ugly and vicious. Just when the pages start flying by – screech – you have to find the second volume. And then there is another change in tone at the start of the third volume. As juvenile as the first volume is, the third volume is just the opposite.There is explication mixed in with the fiction: string theory, M-theory and Rudyard Kipling are examples. And of course there are the emotional truths of how people act and react in difficult situations that we all might experience sometime in our lives. I think Paul Murray has woven teachable moments into his story with skill. As I start the book I begin to think I don’t really like the teenagers. (And I am not wild about the adults either.) Teenagers are a big part of the plot so that matters that I am not enamored of the teens. I never really did like any of them. Just too long since I have been a teenager, I guess. A common TV sitcom device is the child being smugly smarter and wiser than the adult. There is some of that here but it does not demean either age group. Regardless of age, there are both immoral and wise characters in each. I seem to be on a run of books that range between four and two stars. Maybe this has more to do with the variation in my emotional state rather than the unevenness of the book. Sometimes I had to force myself to keep reading and sometimes I didn’t want to stop. I give Skippy Dies three stars and move on. I could have skipped Skippy. But it looks like many readers, including several whose opinions I respect, disagree with me.
122209003	The teaser on the back of the box set edition of Skippy Dies begins, "First the Enfield Tennis Academy in Infinite Jest... Then the Hogwarts School in Harry Potter... And now Seabrook College For Boys: the funniest and most fatal of all three." I've gone off on my peeve about DFW comparisons getting thrown out about every new author elsewhere, but this one got to me. First off, waaaay more people died at Hogwarts. I mean, around three students or faculty died there a book. There was a giant wizard battle there in the last one. There are no climactic wand fights between good and evil at Seabrook College, that's for sure. Second, this little blurb isn't doing Paul Murray any favors. I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but any reader expecting Infinite Jest meets Harry Potter is going to be disappointed.*However, the comparisons remain vaguely appropriate, but not all at once. Let me explain that. Skippy Dies is divided into three separate books of roughly equal length. Of course this isn't any kind of groundbreaking storytelling technique. However, the three books represent unusually distinct narratives.** Paul Murray tricks you into forming expectations in the opening book of the novel and later wrecks havoc on these expectations. For example, consider the title. I feel like I don't need to provide a warning because the title itself is a spoiler. In fact, the book opens up with the eponymous event before flashing back a month. This isn't the way things are supposed to work. As an audience, we're used to being introduced to the characters in the woods and then Bambi's mom getting shot by an evil hunter. If we were told about a movie called Bambi's Mom Dies the effect would be disconcerting. This isn't how we're supposed to encounter tragedy. The choice of title prepares the reader to expect some sort of ironic sensibility. Your initial reaction to Skippy's death is like your reaction to Kenny's death on the early seasons of South Park. Of course Kenny and Skippy must die because their entire purpose in the narrative is to eventually die. After the prologue where the title is fulfilled, the reader thrust into life at Seabrook College and this expectation of quirkiness is further supported. Murray creates an expectation of eccentricity, which is largely supported by the first portion of the novel.*** As the second book begins this expectation begins to falter. You begin to be troubled by the novel's sincerity. You almost will the narrative back on the tracks of ironic kookiness. Suddenly, you realize that you are quite attached in a real way to a character whose doom was prophesied the moment you heard about the novel. You begin to hope for a wink from the author, maybe some sort of loop hole escape or promise of resurrection. But none of this is coming. With the end of the second book, the novel comes crashing down irretrievably into the realm of the real. Episodes inspring warm feelings of nostalgia are exchanged for grief. Here, you realize that Skippy Dies is not in the slightest way a children's story.The third book exposes the lies behind not only the events of the first book, but you're initial response to them. This is where the Harry Potter allusions go to die. There's a lot of disheartening cynicism here, but there's also a Wallaceian promise of hope. Like what they say about the first semester of law school, Paul Murray breaks you down, but before he leaves, he begins builds you back up. Looking back on it, the novel remains unbelievably sad, but still fundamentally optimistic. Although Skippy Dies isn't Don Gately meets Rubeus Hagird, it's still quite good. Before I leave, or shift tense again, I have to point out one thing that Paul Murray can't blame on whoever wrote the teaser on the back cover. At a school dance, Murray has a DJ playing classic rock staples to an audience of kids more interested in the novel's Britney Spears doppelgänger. One of these tracks, according to Murray, Cream's "Layla." C'mon Paul, I can see maybe excuse identifying it as a Clapton track, instead of rightfully giving Duane Allman his due by correctly identifying it as a Derek and the Dominoes track. But Cream? "Layla" sounds nothing like any Cream song! It's not like it has been one of the most popular, recognizable songs of the rock cannon for the past 40 years. Did you mean "Sunshine of Your Love," or "White Room," or maybe "Tales of Brave Ulysses?" And how did this slip past your editors? I seriously considered going 3 stars because of this. * Although, I'm now intrigued by the idea of a buddy-cop dramedy featuring Michael Pemulis and Neville Longbottom. **Fair warning, my edition actually divided the novel into three separate paperbacks, so maybe the preceding reflection is more of a reaction to unorthodox packaging than actual structure.*** Allow me a quick complaint about the back cover teaser which promises "a cast of characters that rangers from the hip-hop loving "MC Sexecutionser" Flynn to the basketball-playing midget Phillip Kilfether." "How quirky," you might be thinking to yourselves. If so, I hate to disappoint you, but the former character is primarily a one-joke background character we spend hardly any time with. The latter is mentioned in a two paragraph portion of the novel. This bugs the hell out of me. I get that you need to hype up books and you have a limited space to do them. What bothers me is when you try to do so by creating purposefully false expectations.
7711144713	"Скипи умря"Автор: Пол МъриПревод: Екатерина Мачева, Елка ВиденоваИздателство: КръгВ "Скипи умря" Пол Мъри създава един от онези романи, които те карат да се смееш, докато усещаш как нещо вътре в теб се пропуква. Историята започва с края с внезапната смърт на Скипи, тийнейджър в престижно католическо училище за момчета. Останалата част от романа ни връща назад, за да покаже какво се е случило, и с всяка страница картината става все по-сложна, по-болезнена и по-човешка.Като чета отзиви и обобщения за книгата, виждам, че често се поставя в категорията на coming-of-age роман, но честно казано, не усетих нищо „младежко“ в класическия смисъл. Липсва онази романтизирана идея за порастването. Всичко тук е сурово, объркано, болезнено реално. И може би именно затова книгата трябва да се прочете от млади хора. Разбирам или поне започвам да разбирам колко трудно е да се съхраниш като личност в днешния свят. Да останеш индивидуален сред цунамито от социални мрежи, информация, родителски амбиции или пък пълно безразличие. Детето ми още не е на такава възраст, че да кажа колко пряко този роман се отнася до нашата реалност, но дори и сега да не е, със сигурност ще бъде, както често става в България след няколко години. Скипи умря не е най-стандартната книга, която би попаднала в нечий задължителен списък, но аз лично бих настоявала да бъде прочетена , защото помага да разберем по-добре младите хора около нас. Тези, които лесно сочим с пръст, когато ни изглеждат арогантни или странни, а всъщност просто се опитват да се ориентират в свят, който непрекъснато ги разклаща.През цялото време, докато четях трагедията в Скипи умря, в съзнанието ми изплуваше "Adolescence" не заради сходството на сюжета, а заради усещането за изгубеност и бавно пропадане, което и двете произведения носят. В сериала режисьорите залагат на драматична, почти натуралистична картина на юношеството, често потапяйки зрителя в безизходица. При Пол Мъри обаче всичко е поднесено с изключително фино чувство за хумор – такова, което не омаловажава страданието, не е неуважително, но и не натрапва тежестта на трагичното. Това чувство за мярка е отлично пренесено в българския текст, чийто превод улавя нюансите на Мъри едновременно забавен и съкрушаващ.Романът се вписва в една традиция на съвременната ирландска литература, която обича да срива митове и да изследва границите между смешното и трагичното. Много ми харесва ирландската литература , пасва ми. Ирландците пишат много за личния драматизъм, без да се вторачват в патоса на страданието. Забелязвам, че най-тежките книги, които съм чела, са именно от ирландски автори, може би защото някак успяват да разкажат за изключително мрачни събития с лекота, без да използват пошлостта на емоционалното изнудване. Хуморът е оръжие срещу институционалното лицемерие, нещо, което Мъри насочва към католическото училище, учебната система и самата идея за възпитание чрез наказание. Резултатът е литературна вихрушка, в която всяка шега е и плач."Скипи умря" е болезнено смешен и нежно опустошителен роман, който не предлага лесни отговори, но оставя дълбоки следи.
128534941	(4.5 stars)*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT********************************Skippy dies. On page...um...2. I guess, given that the protagonist kicks it so early in the narrative, and the title of this wonderfully neurotic glimpse of Catholic school life (and, well, death) in Dublin, Ireland is of course (with tongue firmly in cheek): "Skippy Dies", it's not much of a spoiler to give away that plot point. I must say, I was drawn to this book only because of a stellar review from a good friend, and the cover art was so interesting. At first blush, though, it had the feel of an overwrought 650+ page Irish YA schoolboy-homophobic-insult fest. Persistantly reading a few pages past Daniel "Skippy" Juster's misfortune at a doughnut shop, clearly the scope was way deeper than that; it became not only a "How Did This Fate Befall Our Fearless Hero, Skippy?" but a deeper look at societal issues and sobering, heart-rending views on mortality, pedophilia (and the Catholic Church), and love/familial relationships. (Just for the record, this CLEARLY is not YA fare, though many of its central characters are of secondary school-age). Author Paul Murray (definitely a name to look for in the future) bazooka-launches a wide array of interesting characters, some of whom come to the fore and resonate: Ruprecht "Von BlowJob" Von Doren, Skippy's best friend and roommate (who bests Skippy in a doughnut-eating contest in the aforementioned Doughnut Shop Incident) is an incredibly intelligent, though morbidly obese kid who is the butt of everyone's derision and pranks, and fancies himself a 11th-dimension string-theorist; a terribly bored and dissatisfied-with-life history teacher named Howard ("the Coward") Fallon (who has his own back story that could easily fill a book of his own); the school itself, Seabrook College for Boys, an ancient, venerable (though decaying) institution for learning run by the Paraclete order of the Catholic Church, in the process of the old guard being taken over by the new; and of course our titular hero, Skippy, an unassuming, somewhat meek and nerdy coming-of-age kid who's on on the swim team, is addicted to role-playing video games, has a tough time relating to his parents, and painfully visits first love (a character so universally appealing and relatable, he dominates the circuitous narrative and provides the reader someone to totally rally behind).Mr. Murray's story-telling, though long-winded, is never boring and would certainly rate 5 stars in my estimation were it not for a few plot threads that just kinda fizzle and go nowhere (and for the incessant homophobic name-calling from the school kids...a little of that can go a loooonng way, Mr. Murray...we understand that it's part and parcel of growing up (even today in 2011) to hear kids call each other faggot and cocksucker...but it's not necessary to jam it down the reader's throat...). Overall, a quite solid, entertaining book.
5814222728	“Skippy Dies”, by Paul Murray completely captivated me, this biting satire of adolescence and academia transported me to the early 2000s in an all-boy Catholic school in Dublin. Murray’s writing is so pitch-perfect that I felt I was walking the halls with the horribly immature 14 year old boys, and their utterly awful teachers.Skippy dies, and the reasons are many and devastating. Let Murry take you through this poignant tragedy with insight into what it means to leave childhood and realize what kind of corrupt place the world really is. And yet, there is plenty of humor and hope, too. Murray is an exceptionally talented writer. In “Skippy Dies” he weaves in reflections on WWI “The Great War” and the Irish connections, in a fascinating and relevant way.Warning: you will never read Robert Frost’s “The Road Not Taken” the same way again!
215409521	It's true - Skippy dies right away in the first chapter. As it unfolds, there is chaos in the writing, a sense of panic, flashing ambulance lights and reassuring words. The reader is with him, there in the doughnut shop, watching the eating contest come to an abrupt stop, wondering if this is a tactical ruse on Skippy's part as he falls to the floor. But it isn't. The questions begin. Why did a healthy 14 year old boy suddenly die? The remaining 650+ pages explore the precursors and, of course, the aftermath.This is a long book that meanders and goes off on tangents but it never lost my interest. Around the typical novel length of 350 pages, I wondered where it was going and what was the point but I never considered putting it aside. At that point, I predicted that it would earn a 3 star rating. There was no compelling link between the 4 or 5 threads and I wasn’t captivated by any one character (except Skippy).That said, the writing is incredibly engaging. Murray writes in a number of varied styles. There is a stream-of-consciousness thought style used when the teens are hyper, confused or irrational, exactly how a teenage mind functions. He also employs a very adult style when the teachers and priests are in discussion. Occasionally he uses sentence fragments and short choppy writing to pick up the speed. He even manages to slow down the prose to show altered consciousness, inner self-talk and attention to minutia.But wait for it. Around page 580, I honestly couldn’t put the book down. Suddenly everything slotted into place and I could see how Murray was pulling everything together without a wasted word. The rating rose and rose once this happened. It was a solid 4.5 star read - edging higher at this point but waning slightly at the end because of some loose ends, believe it or not.After Skippy’s death scene, we are taken back to the beginning of school term at the exclusive Seabrook Private School, where Skippy has been a boarder for many years. We follow him and his band of buddies as they do regular teenager stuff - being bored in History class, spying on the girls over the wall of the private girls' school next door, lighting farts on fire, and ogling the substitute Geography teacher.There is Ruprecht, the class genius and Skippy's roommate, who has a strong grasp of String Theory and Astronomy and who rounds up his buddies to help him execute elaborate experiments to prove his theorem. His lofty goals and intelligence set him away from his peers but Skippy’s friendship keeps him tethered to reality.There is Carl, the budding drug dealer, who sets himself up to trade younger kids' Ritalin meds for fireworks and then sells that Ritalin to his girls' school regulars as diet meds. What he lacks in brains, he holds in entrepreneurial spirit.There is Lorelei, the hottie of the girls school, who thinks Carl's obvious crush on her is amusing. She exudes a confidence that Skippy finds magnetic.And there's Howard, the History teacher, who has found himself in a lifestyle rut, teaching at the same school where he attended as a boy, existing in a loveless relationship and struck by the boredom of his own lessons.The climax of the story happens during the school Halloween dance, after which everything starts to unravel for Skippy and everyone else. By the Christmas concert, they’ve all hit rock bottom. Murray is amazing the way he addresses so many themes and issues so well throughout the novel. I wonder if he was most inspired by the lack of information about the Irish participation in Gallipoli during WW1, or if he was touched by someone who dabbled too deeply in drugs. Perhaps he wanted to teach us all about string theory or about the magical mythology of Irish mounds. Or perhaps he needed to paint a picture of the dark side of boarding school, priests, and too much unsupervised time in the hands of teenagers. Whatever his motivation, Murray did a fabulous job of keeping me wrapt for all those hundreds of pages.
116083157	If you're looking for a really good book to read, this is the one. Don't just add it to your TBR pile...go get a copy and read it. It's nearly 700 pages, but you won't even notice, especially if you buy it in the 3-box set. It is undoubtedly one of the funniest books I've ever read, but at the same time, quite poignant; it is a book that will at times tug at your heartstrings.The story begins in the first book, called "Hopeland," and continues through the next two books, "Heartland" and "Ghostland." In the very first scene at Ed's Doughnut House on a Friday evening in November, 14-year old Skippy, whose real name is Daniel Juster, is having a doughnut-eating race with his friend Ruprecht Van Doren, who boasts that he has not been beaten in "fifteen consecutive races." But something goes wrong and (this is not a spoiler) Skippy dies after leaving the words "Tell Lori" written in jam on the floor. And then the author takes his readers back to fall term at Seabrook College, the oldest Catholic boys' school in Ireland -- to find out exactly what brought things to this point.Skippy is a student who boards at Seabrook. He gets his nickname from buck teeth that cause him to make a sound when he speaks like the voice of a talking kangaroo on TV. Until just shortly before midterm, Skippy had been an excellent student, is on the school's swim team, and generally liked, but his grades have been falling recently. Skippy enjoys playing a video game called "Hopeland," a kind of mystic quest, which will increase in importance as the story goes on. He shares a room with Ruprecht, for whom the world is a compendium of fascinating facts just waiting to be discovered, and a difficult maths problem is like sinking into a nice warm bath.Ruprecht's goal is to study at Stanford, and his hero is physicist Hideo Tamashi, whose work entails trying to solve the Big Bang via ten-dimensional string theory. Ruprecht has a lab in the basement where he conducts experiments which he hopes will lead him to the secret origins of the universe. Skippy's other friends include Dennis, who is an "arch-cynic, whose very dreams are sadistic, hates the world and everything in it..." who thinks Ruprecht talks "non-stop bollocks." He also has Geoff, Niall and Mario as friends, although these characters (and many of the other boys around Skippy) are really less developed as characters than Ruprecht and Dennis. After thinking he sees a UFO one day, Skippy looks through Ruprecht's telescope and sees a girl throwing a Frisbee. This is Lori, a girl from St. Brigid's, a "smoking-hot" girl who immediately captures Skippy's attention. The problem is that another Seabrook boy, Barry, has become infatuated with Lori, and Barry is bad news.But this book is not just about the boys of Seabrook -- the school's faculty and staff are just as much a part of the story. One of the main characters is Howard Fallon, the school's history teacher, who himself graduated from Seabrook some ten years back, and is haunted by an episode that took place at that time. He's back at the school after a stint in the world of finance. There's Father Green, the French teacher, whose name the boys have translated into French as "Pere-vert". His calling, as he sees it, is to snuff out sin, but at the same time, he feels he must keep Skippy in a state of innocence. He has his own inner demons to deal with as well. Then there's Greg Costigan, the acting principal of Seabrook in the absence of Father Furlong, who has suffered a recent heart attack. Costigan is snarkily referred to as "the Automator," and believes that the Paraclete Order is on its last legs, and that the only solution is to modernize the school, with himself at the helm. He believes that Seabrook's history as the oldest Catholic boys' school is brandable -- and that the school's role is to prepare the students to "get up there on the world stage and duke it out with the best of them." He wants to roll with the times -- Change is not a dirty word. Neither for that matter is profit. Profit is what enables change, positive change that helps everyone, such as for example demolishing the 1865 building and constructing an entirely new twenty-first-century wing in its place and of course, the wing just might be named after him. Costigan represents progress in a very anti-traditionalist sort of way; he doesn't care that the boys actually learn anything, just that they pass their exams to continue Seabrook's reputation, come what may. The reputation of the school is everything and must remain so, no matter what. Fallon, on the other hand, begins to understand that history is something of value -- and that teaching others to care about the past may be just as important as throwing them into the competitive capitalist arena. Although Skippy Dies is often so funny you can't help but laugh out loud (for example, there's a scene where the boys' English teacher has just gone over the meaning of Robert Frost's "The Road Not Taken" and one of the kids takes his interpretation to a whole new level), the story is at times tragic and heartbreaking. It's a good look at how these teenagers understand and interpret themselves in the face of today's world (including sex and drug use) how they see adults, and how despair can cause loss of hope and yet for some, become a building experience. It's about the hold of memory on the human psyche and the importance of remembering. There are other themes at work as well -- including the socio-economic situation of modern Ireland and the role of the Catholic church in the face of all of the scandals that dog it -- making this very long book just fly by. I loved this book. Absolutely. It's extremely well written, although it does get bogged down a bit for a short time in the middle. But on the whole, it is most excellent. Which is why I do not understand for the life of me how it did not make it on to the Booker Prize Shortlist, announced today. It is by far better than any of the books I've yet read, much more accessible and extremely reader oriented than its companions on the list.I have absolutely zero qualms about recommending this book. It is so good you will not be able to stop reading it. I really hope it becomes a runaway bestseller.
552896960	This book started life at over 1,000 pages, before it was whacked down to 660. And it's still too long. But I think Murray's in admirable control of all his thematic threads. The White Goddess leads to the Black Goddess, which leads to the poetry of Robert Graves, which leads to World War I, which leads to the circular nature of history, which leads to M theory, which leads to the universe as a hypersphere, which leads to…doughnuts. Does the circular nature of the universe offer opportunity (there are recurring attempts to travel though time, even to communicate with the dead), or is it a cage in which you're constantly being confronted by history and your own limitations?Which brings us back to doughnuts, infinite in their roundness but hollow at their centers. It is a doughnut stuck in the windpipe that appears to kill the Skippy of the title; only later do we find it was an overdose of painkillers. Drug abuse is another major theme here—and some of Murray's best writing evokes the hellish sensations of drugs on the young mind—as is sexual predation, and not just by the priests. Really, it's a fucking jungle out there. Murray holds this all together pretty nicely, until the book's third act, at which point he becomes regrettably heavy-handed. Lots of lectures in the last 200 pages. Lots of spelling things out. I'm down with most of what he's saying—including his main point, that society's institutions cannibalize its children—but the author really ought to let us make some of those connections ourselves. For all that, I kind of loved this thing. The book is frequently hilarious, and in poor screwed-up, beautiful Skippy, with his swimming-pool-green dread and his glowing love for Lori, Murray has created a character for all time.
123041004	The events preceding and following an untimely, useless death are examined in depth with a unique perspective. This coming of age novel, in which almost everyone but the eponymous hero attains insight and maturity, is by turns filled with unbearable sadness laced with shots of original hilarity. The book meanders through an usually fraught autumn in the school year of a Dublin boys' school. It is populated almost entirely with the students and faculty (both lay and clergy), with parents only appearing as necessary. This would seem to indicate that the importance of the privileged homes these boys came from wasn't important, but oddly enough, the effect of the parents' benign neglect and self absorbtion is one of the most insidious aspects of the events as they materialize. For example, the "school psychopath" as described in other reviews has a home life that somewhat explains his need to do things he does that set ripples in motion. Given the subject matter, I was initially put off by the book's length, but with few exceptions, there is very little bloat. According to those who have attended such schools, the jargon is spot on, the obsession with sex and desire to be somewhere else, anywhere else but "here," jibes with experience.
269898113	This book took me ages to finish, not because it was a difficult read, but because it failed to keep my attention and as a result kept being set aside in favor of other books. I'm not entirely sure why I forced myself to finish Skippy Dies, but now that I have I wish I hadn't bothered. I don't get the love for this book. One of Amazon's top books of the month? "A breathtaking novel from a young writer who will come to define his generation" (from the publisher's blurb)? What drugs are these people taking? To be fair, there were positives to this novel: some of the characters (particularly minor ones) are wonderfully drawn, there are incidents of definite humor and charm, and there are also some examples of very good expository writing. Unfortunately, these pluses were overshadowed for me by the fact that I just didn't care about a single one of these characters. Not the tortured genius, not the pathetic history teacher, not even about poor, dead Skippy. And ultimately, that's why I kept putting this book down every time something new caught my interest. #23 in the Book a Month in 2012 Challenge from the #WTM boards.
137065899	Wow, such a deceptively dense book. And I don't mean its size, because obviously a 650-whatever-page book is going to have a lot going on. But it's really intricate and unpredictable. For the first third or so I was thinking it was like a very smart HBO series, but it's more than that, honestly -- it slowly edges over into darkness in a non-melodramatic way and by the end it's really kind of wrenching. But entertaining, too. Murray's a terrific writer and the whole thing prickles with energy, a lot of it very funny and some of it decidedly not, and that was all to its benefit. It could have been trimmed of some fat, I guess, but my attention never flagged and I didn't mind the heft -- not even on the subway in rush hour, which is saying something. And for such a rollicking book, it leaves a lot to be mentally picked over afterward -- this isn't one I'll close and just forget about. It was good stuff, and worth all that anticipation.
124603930	I loved this book. Although it is long (nearly 700 pages), it never felt like it was in need of an edit. Telling the stories of the boys of Seabrook College, an all boys boarding school in contemporary Dublin, this book is both hysterically funny and heartbreakingly sad. You remember how hard it is to be 14 and how much we remain prisoners of what happens when we are schoolchildren. Delightfully rounded out characters fill this book and you find yourself really rooting for all of them - including the one adult featured heavily - history teacher, Howard "the Coward" Fallon. In addition to the believable characters and a plot that is more than just compelling (I couldn't bear to put it down for the last 200 pages, I just HAD to know how it all ended), this book is really beautifully written. All in all, a lovely book - I highly recommend it.
560738295	Excellent - funny, fast-paced, plot-filled and well written. It only loses a star due to occasional lapses into cliche and an ending which does not work as well as it thinks it does. Not exactly a life-changing book, but an enjoyable read peopled with characters it is a pleasure to spend time with (even Carl).
6449546665	I’d say 4.5 stars. The story is a familiar one but the writing is impeccable. I Inhaled this immediately after reading The Bee Sting. Admittedly, the start was a little slow for me because I thought jumping back and forth between so many characters was going to be tedious. But it didn’t take long to become fully immersed and I ended up knowing and caring about pretty much all of them, for better or worse.
130596000	Skippy dies – Paul MurraySobald man den Titel dieses Buches gelesen hat, kommt jeder Spoileralarm zu spät. Es geht um das Leben und Sterben des Internatsschülers Daniel „Skippy“ Juster, um seine erste Liebe, die Freundschaft zu seinem Zimmergenossen, dem adipösen Genie Ruprecht Van Doren und dem bittersüßen Weg ins Erwachsenendasein. Parallel werden die Geschichten seines Geschichtslehrers, des Schulschlägers und des Internatsdirektors erzählt.Eines meiner Lieblingsbuchgenres sind Geschichten über das Erwachsenwerden. Hier geht es noch um die ganz großen Emotionen. Die erste Liebe, der schmerzliche Weg in die Unabhängigkeit, die ersten Erfahrungen mit Drogen und Sex. Überhöhte Gefühle jeglicher Art. An einem Tag möchte man die ganze Welt umarmen, in der nächsten Woche plagen einen Selbstmordgedanken.Dem Protagonisten dieses wunderbaren Romans geht es da nicht anders. Auch wenn Paul Murray weit mehr als die Geschichte eines einzelnen Jungens erzählt. Die Komplexität des Erwachsenwerdens beschreibt er virtuos, durch den Wechsel der Charakterperspektiven. So ist Skippy unsterblich in das „Frisbeegirl“ Lori verliebt, ohne dabei zu sehen, dass die scheinbar malkellose Schulschönheit ein von Minderwertigkeitskomplexen geplagtes magersüchtiges Mädchen ist, das außerdem eine Affaire mit dem Schulpsychopathen Carl hat, der wiederum unter der Trennung seiner Eltern leidet. Er stellt die tragikomischen Erlebnisse von Skippy in einen größeren Zusammenhang und verbindet die Suche nach der eigenen Identität mit Fragen über die Entstehung unseres Universums.So wie Skippy den Weg von der Kindheit ins Erwachsenleben bestreitet, befindet sich auch das strenggeführte Jungeninternat Seabrook im Übergang von der Vergangenheit in die Moderne. Murray zeichnet ein bitterböses Bild der sogenannten Elite, wunderbar verkörpert durch den eiskalt kalkulierenden Internatsdirektor Greg und die Eltern der jungen Protagonisten, die ihre Kinder mit überhöhten Erwartungen unter Druck setzen. Mit vielen liebevollen Charakteren führt er uns den Status quo der heutigen Jugend vor Augen, die trotz Computer und Internetpornographie, die gleichen Probleme plagen wie die Internatsschüler vor hundert Jahren. Am Ende kommt der Leser zu dem spirituellen Schluß, dass in unserem Universum alle Lebewesen und alle Dinge, die Vergangenheit, die Zukunft, sowie Raum und Zeit miteinander vernetzt sind.200 Seiten vor dem Ende verblüfft Murray dann durch einen literarisches Experiment, wie ich es sonst noch nicht gelesen habe. Mehr soll hier nicht verraten werden.FazitPaul Murrays Schreibe sprüht nur so vor Wortwitz während er mit einer Leichtigkeit zwischen diversen Stilen und Erzählperspektiven jongliert, dass man nach 660 Seiten mit Wehmut festellt, dass das Buch schon zu Ende ist.Wer jetzt noch nicht überzeugt ist, dem sei gesagt, dass Skippy auf Platz 3 der Time Top 10 Fiction Books 2010 steht und für den Man Booker Price 2010 nominiert war.Wertung: 4/5
575532005	Not another "Junior goes to Eton" novel! Harry Potter at Hogwarts minus the magic, quidditch, etc. No doubt, boarding schools are burning, churning urns of adolescent funk - - but there's just something about the claustrophobic emotional and social lives, the "coming-of-age" trials amongst upper crust white kids (half-blood or no), that turns me off this genre. Still, Murray's novel got lots of hype and, of course, it is an Irish version of the boarding-school genre. So, I thought I'd give Skippy Dies a try - - at least the title pulls no punches.There is of course no real plot here - - which is fine, so long as the absence of plot's insistent push forward is compensated for by interesting, rich characters, setting, narration, or style. Sadly, all of these anti-plot possibilities are missing here. The characters are dull and petty - - barely breaking through the envelop of standard middle-class drama. Despite it's Irish setting - - here the streets and hallways and classrooms seem oddly placeless and, again, standardized. The narration almost approaches interesting - - as we skip from character to character - -but there's just not enough virtuousity to keep me involved. And, even more disappointing, the novel lacks the kind of mad, inventive, restless style one might associate with Irish loquaciousness. In other words, I really wanted to like this book - - perhaps as a sign that even the death of the Irish tiger can't quell the Irish tongue. However, I turned the last page with a sigh - - for all of the glimmers of brilliance without the onrushing wave of genius.
1342820953	Aufgrund seines nicht gerade geringen Umfangs (knapp 800 Seiten sind schon ein Wort) stand dieser Roman schon einige Zeit ungelesen bei mir im Regal ... und wie so oft ärgere ich mich im Nachhinein, dass ich es so lange habe herumstehen lassen. Denn "Skippy stirbt" lohnt sich. Und das absolut.Im Grunde (auch wenn dies erst im zweiten Teil des Romans so richtig zu Tage tritt) ist "Skippy stirbt" ein trauriges Buch. Nicht in dem Sinne, dass man beim Lesen ständig nach den Taschentüchern greifen würde. Aber dieser Roman zeigt uns, was passieren kann, wenn Jugendliche sich selbst überlassen werden, was es bedeutet, nicht richtig zu wissen, wohin einen das Leben führen soll und all diese Themen, die in der Jugend eben eine Rolle spielen. Und doch haben wir hier keinen typischen Coming-Of-Age-Roman vor uns. Dazu ist er zu gut geschrieben, zu vielschichtig, beleuchtet verschiedene Sichtweisen und entfaltet sein volles Potenzial erst nach und nach - ganz langsam, aber letzten Endes gewaltig. Ein kleines Sternchen Abzug gibt es, da man sicherlich einige Seiten hätte abziehen müssen. Einen Roman über 800 Seiten zu halten, ist schon eine Aufgabe.Und doch bleibt mir nur zu sagen: lest es, es ist ein durch und durch tolles Buch, das die schwierige Aufgabe bewältigt, Humor und Traurigkeit zu verbinden!
4853047229	I’m so conflicted with this book. I would give it 3.5 stars if I could. Skippy dies on the first page and the first two parts detail Skippy’s life and what led to his death, and the third part gives insight into the character’s development and how they learned different lessons from Skippy. It was really the last 50 pages or so that were interesting, but there was a pretty big plot twist and everything either came full circle or made a lot of sense at the very end. I think this quote from the book sums it up: “there is another world, but it is in this one”. Everyone in the book is running from their problems and resorts to the worst coping methods: drugs, diet pills, donuts, and drinking. By the end, they learn from each other that they’ve spent their entire lives searching for something better and running from their issues. The 3.5 rating stems from the fact that this book could have been 300 pages instead of 660. This book almost put me in a reading slump. All in all it was a good book but not a favorite.
121413221	L'edizione italiana di questo libro ha una "buona" copertina, quando entri in libreria la vedi, ti viene voglia di aprirlo, di comprarlo. Per me è stato così, mi ha chiamato per un mese circa e poi, alla fine, ho comprato "Skippy Muore", senza sapere nulla della trama, dell'idea, della storia. Non ho letto, neanche sommariamente, la prima e la quarta di copertina. Questa volta è andata bene. 16 euro non sono pochi.Però il libro è bello. Sono più di 800 pagine fitte dove si racconta un microcosmo di personaggi ben visibili a cui ti affezioni. Non dico niente della trama, dico del ritmo: buono, ci vuole un po' per entrare ma quando entri non esci più, i personaggi sono con te e non ti abbandonano,adatto anche per la sceneggiatura di un prossimo film. Bel libro, felice di averlo letto. Consigliato a chi ama i romanzi di formazione e di emozioni.
269512392	Turning the last pages, I felt a twinge similar to when I completed Seven Types of Ambiguity by Elliot Perlman, a instantaneous realization that this hulk could've been a fine novel. I found the spiritual and astrophysical maneuvers wildly misdirected. I will say that Mr. Murray understands the speech of adolescents. Riffs on Infinte Jest might garner attention from some but ultimately though, I tend to regard Skippy Dies as only slightly better than The Instructions by Adam Levin. If that is negligible praise, so why bother?
