1120327199	While I liked the continued character building of this incredible fictional youngster, Flavia de Luce, I cannot in all honesty say I enjoyed this book as a whole. It will always be set apart in my mind as "that Flavia book", the one I kept arguing with. One of the major reasons I have been able to accept an 11 year old girl, now turned 12, as the solver of all her previous murder investigations is because the author gave me logical reasons for everything that happened in his books. Flavia working her precocious magic in 1951 rural England relates quite differently when she is transported to 1951 Toronto, Canada. This book started off on a different track as soon as that body came tumbling down the chimney in Flavia's private dorm room at Miss Bodycote's Female Academy on the very night of her arrival. I felt that information was sparsely disclosed by the author and even contradictory in some ways. How could Flavia say that it was obvious the body had been inside the chimney for quite a long time and yet that could not have been possible given who the victim turned out to be? How can Flavia give one of her petite dissertations on the process of decomposition while I couldn't stop wondering how this body went through that process with not one person in that building asking questions regarding noticeable manifestations of a decomposing corpse there in the chimney? How could a corpse have been inside a chimney where lighted fires were used to heat the room and still nobody noticed? Those were not just obstacles for me, those were just two of the many insurmountable obstacles to my acceptance of this story.Flavia had been removed from everything and everyone surrounding her at Buckshaw which had always added so much dimension and depth to the previous stories. Nothing was added to fill that void. Here in Toronto she was alone and the new characters around her had no depth and changed their nature from one scene to the next. I couldn't grasp what was supposed to be going on with a secret society (involving the other students of various ages as well as adults) which seemed to be operating within a different secret society. Two secret groups with neither of them ever being explained? There was too much unexplained secrecy in this book. Even such mundane information as the fact that there were day students as well as boarding students was never mentioned until far into the novel. The basic development of this world Flavia had been set down in seemed woefully incomplete. Harriet is often mentioned in this book, but never anything concrete enough to make me really understand what Harriet was like when she was a student here. More mysteriousness when it wasn't really necessary. And none of my questions were ever answered, none of them.For those of us who consider ourselves fans of these novels I do think it is important to read this book. It will never be a favorite of mine, but judging by the ending of this book we can expect there will be another. It simply must get back on track. I recommend reading this novel to keep yourself aware of what has happened to Flavia in the series. New readers to the series should definitely not begin here.I received an ARC of this novel through NetGalley.
1132418781	Flavia De Luce is sent from her home at Buckshaw, England to Miss Bodycote’s Female Academy in Toronto, her mother’s alma mater. She is there to be inducted into the mysterious organization called Nide. But a body comes crashing down out of the chimney the very first night at the school and Flavia can’t help trying to find out the identity of the dead body and who stuffed it into the chimney.This is my first Flavia De Luce book, but not my last. I had no problem getting into the story, but of course, since this is book seven were there bound to be things mentioned in the book that I knew nothing about. Like for instance why she was banished to Canada? Apparently, there happened things in the last book concerning her mother that led to this. But anyway if we disregard that, everything else was not that hard to understand, she mentioned people but often I got an explanation to who she was referring to so that was ok.I admit that I first thought the books story took place much earlier than 1950’s, around 1920-30’s perhaps. But then television was mentioned and that meant a bit later. Also, I wasn’t sure about Flavia's ages until someone mentioned that she was 12, I thought that she would be older. But she was fun; she was like a nosy Nancy Drew, but slightly more morbid. I was a bit weary of Flavia in the beginning, there is a thin line between precocious and obnoxious but she managed to stay on the precocious side throughout the book. The story was interesting and I liked the school setting. I have always been a bit fascinated by boarding school milieu, and for mystery books are boarding schools a perfect setting. It was a good read and I'm looking forward to reading the previous six books in the series.I received this copy from the publisher through Netgalley in return for an honest review!
1067043849	** spoiler alert ** Flavia is starting her first year at Miss Bodycote's Academy. She's homesick a lot - and so was I. I liked how the school and its inhabitants were described. But it was not Buckshaw. Dogger, Flavia's father and sisters, Mr and Mrs Mullet still are present in Flavia's thoughts but it's just not the same.I also found the crime rather confusing. There are so many new characters that I sometimes lost track of who was who. In the end it all comes to a logic conclusion but the twists and turns before that were a bit too much for me. The biggest surprise for me was that Flavia is being sent back to Buckshaw in the end. I like this but I'm now wondering what the sense of this volume was. Alan Bradley could as well have left Flavia at home if he is sending her back again.3.5 stars for As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust. This is the lowest rating I have given to this series so far. I hope that I will enjoy the next volume a lot more.(I received a free digital copy via Netgalley/the publisher. Thanks for the opportunity!)
1979556228	“There is no sadder word in the English language. The very sound of it – like echoing iron gates crashing closed behind you; like steel bolts being shot shut – makes your hair stand on end, doesn’t it?”“Banished!” With those words, Flavia’s next adventure begins. She is on her way to an academy for young ladies – across the pond, as it’s now often referred to – in Toronto, Ontario. She arrives homesick and heartsick, convinced that her family has sent her away as a nuisance, regardless of what her Aunt Felicity told her about who she is, what she is part of, and her duty.Maybe it’s her age (she’s twelve now) or maybe it’s being so far from home and all that is dear to her heart, but we have a much more emotionally conflicted Flavia in this book. She chides herself for it regularly and reminds herself to stick to the facts and trust science. “One of the things I dread about becoming an adult is that sooner or later you begin letting sentimentality get in the way of simple logic. False feelings are allowed to clog the works like raw honey poured into the tiny wheels of a fine timepiece.” I love how she thinks!As though her own personal crisis of growth isn’t enough, add to the mix a dead body suddenly arriving into her life at close quarters, a headmistress indeterminably friend or foe, and, in fact, a whole uncertainty of people in a school that feels like prison to her, and this story catapults us into the next phase of honing her sleuthing skills.From my perspective, as good as this series was out of the station, it just continues to get better. It is not only completely entertaining, but also strategically peppered with wisdom that Flavia has picked up from sources such as Shakespeare, Aristotle, Dickens, and fairy tales such as Jack and the Beanstalk, and Peter Pan.For sheer entertainment value, it’s a solid 5 stars. For exceptional writing and wisdom, an additional 5 stars. Oh. Wait. I’m only allowed 5 stars altogether. (But I’m giving it a 10 anyway).
938993627	My god, am I hesitant to criticize an author's choice to change things up. It seems as though, as readers, we're always hoping that an author will take our favourite characters in new and exciting directions... and at the same time we fear losing all those things that make them our favourite characters - personality, context, place, secondary characters off which they ping and play and conflict. And before reading As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust, I would've easily said I was eager for a change in Flavia de Luce's world, and that the strength of her incredibly adorable personality would easily weather the change. But I realize, now, how very much I miss Dogger. It's unlikely that you're reading a review about the seventh installment of Bradley's Flavia series and don't know who Dogger is, so I won't much belabor the point, but Dogger is one of the shining and tarnished characters in the series and his absence - along with those of literally everyone else in the series with only the exception of Flavia, is a difficult blow.Those who are reading the series will know that the sixth installment, in which we learn the fate of Flavia's beloved mother, was much anticipated, and it feel to me that this, the seventh, just released Tuesday, January 6th, has been as well. It promised, and delivers, a swerve in Flavia's arc and maturation. She's been "banished" to a girl's boarding school in Canada, where she's to receive a proper - and secret - education. Because of this, the entire world built around Flavia is stripped away; England, Buckshaw, her father, Gladys, her sisters, and, of course, Dogger, are nonexistent (save a paltry missive). I found all this more difficult to stomach than I would have imagined. Bradley maintains the Flavia we adore. She is still, of course, cleverer than anyone around (and makes certain you know as much):"For a fraction of a second, my hopes were up, thinking her head might explode. But no such luck.""Marge's tongue was rolling busily about inside her cheek, rooting out thoughts - or perhaps in search of something to eat." "Was it wrong to be so deceitful? Well, yes, it probably was. But if God hadn't wanted me to be the way I am, He would have arranged to have me born a haddock instead of Flavia de Luce - wouldn't He?""None of the books were shelved in alphabetical order, which made it necessary to cock my head sideways to read each of the spines. By the end of the third shelf I had begun to realize why librarians are sometimes able to achieve such pinnacles of crankiness: It's because they're in agony." "A hissing sound caught my attention. It was coming from somewhere behind the Rainsmith's house and to my left. A hissing in the garden is a sound that cannot be ignored by any human female since the time of Eve, and I was no exception." I admit; I was about a third of the way through when I seriously considered putting the book down. All of those things I love about Flavia and her English countryside have been translated into a Toronto setting, along with Canadian/American slang, as Flavia tries to fit in, and I didn't like the translation at all.And I sorely missed Dogger.But.I continued. And I was glad to have done so. The mystery is somewhat complicated and compelling, and we get a glimpse of the larger world for which Flavia is being groomed. Although it makes me a bit sad to see Flavia starting to grow up, I'd much rather see a maturation and development of the character than I would in those series - especially those concerning children - where the protagonist is caught in the amber world where the reader fell in love with them. For her to change makes Flavia more authentic and grounded.Also, by reading to the end, you discover that the upheaval might not be so dramatic as feared. * Advanced copy provided by Random House.
1224554601	I hate hate hate to rate this so low. I love Flavia! I love this series. However, this one felt so very forced to me. It read as if Alan Bradley just really needed a different location in which to place Flavia. He sends her from her family home in England (Buckshaw) to a private girls school in Canada. Then within hours of her arrival she finds a dead body, in a very unbelievable place I might add. Between that and other people disappearing I was not sure whose body we were looking for and whose murder she was solving. One of the pivotal scenes toward the end of the book involved a character that I think was literally only mentioned briefly once or twice in the very beginning of the book. I had to go back and find her name and figure out who she was because I thought I had missed something important with her specifically? nope. The end was very abbreviated and abrupt as well. It almost read as if someone edited 150 pages out of the book without making appropriate changes. Not giving up on Flavia de Luce though.
2865655276	This book is set in Canada where Flavia is shipped off to boarding school. I much prefer the setting of her ancestral home, and all the characters from home but Flavia is still Flavia and I still enjoyed story, even though it was a bit random. Looking forward to getting back to this series’ home setting.
955235106	Tread carefully if you haven't read the 6th installment, this is no real, huge spoiler but I was surprised by the ending of book 6 and don't wanna spoil the surprise for anybody.Flavia sets out for a new life: She arrives at her new school in Canada and is torn between excitement and homesickness. But luckily (for someone like our Flavia) in her first night at the new school a dead body is found. To Flavia's joy in the chimney of her own bedroom.The following days are filled with her adjustment to the new school as well as investigations that reveal missing students during the past years.Hmmm, technically it was all there. Flavia, her lovely chemistry nerdiness, a murder, investigations and an exciting new setting I was really looking forward to. But apart from the feeling of being back „home“ in Flavia's world which I really enjoyed, there seemed to be something missing in this installment. I don't think it was the new setting and there were lots of mentionings of the beloved and/ or quirky characters from back home to have the feeling, they were „in“ the story. I also missed some of the storylines that had built up over the series. It was too much of a fresh start to me without a really exciting new storyline. The crime itself never captured my full attention, it felt a bit forced that Flavia stumbles over a dead body like that to begin with and the investigations missed some of the Flavia spark. The setting of the new school and other places in Canada was as amazing as the vivid settings like Buckshaw and Bishop's Lacey we got to love in the previous installments. But if you love the series you will enjoy Flavia's Canadian adventure as I did. (I was given a free digital copy of this book by the publisher via NetGalley.)
3365466326	2.5 stars. This seventh Flavia adventure poses an interesting question: how much of the appeal of this series lay in the idyllic English setting and a by now familiar cast of characters? And how much of it was Flavia herself? As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust is set in Canada, where Flavia has been sent for boarding school. Buckshaw is a distant memory. Flavia misses her chemistry lab, Dogger, and even her sisters. There's an entirely new cast of characters at the school: a mercurial headmistress, fellow students who might (or might not) make something of the cryptic phrase 'pheasant sandwiches,' new police investigators. And, of course, a new corpse that tumbles out of the chimney on Flavia's very first night at the school.In short, it's a whole new chapter for Flavia, now twelve years old. I was mostly okay with this, though it did strike me as an unnecessary book. Alan Bradley could have ended his series after the excellent book 6, which had enough revelations and changes to feel like a satisfying ending. But fine, I had a copy on hand, and that was what mattered most during this interminable shelter in place order. I really miss libraries. The mystery was mostly fine, actually, and I enjoyed watching Flavia navigate her strange new world and begin, tentatively, to make friends and allies her own age, which she has never had. So far, so good - brain candy fulfilling its duty. But the ending was so, so strange that it actually made my eyebrows go up in real life. (view spoiler)[Flavia gets labeled a 'failure to flourish' for being a troublemaker at her new school and solving a crime that maybe didn't need solving and is shipped back to Buckshaw. What an absolute waste of a new cast and setting. I was looking forward to more adventures in Canada; it seems stale, flat, and unprofitable for Flavia to return already, not having grown much or gained anything from her travels. Why, Alan Bradley? (hide spoiler)] I'm not sure I need to read any more books in this series. It's starting to feel like a TV show that has gone on too long already.
1297187795	As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust (Flavia #7) follows Flavia to the same boarding school her mother attended, Miss Bodycote's Female Academy, in Canada. She feels shunned and banished by her family whom she fears have already forgotten her.Before she's even unpacked her suitcase or spent a night at her new school, a charred body falls out of the chimney in her room, and she becomes a sleuth again.In this new location, she has the opportunity to make new friends and acquire new mentors, yet she must proceed with caution as she hunts for the victim's identity, suspects, and motives. In addition, rumors swirl about missing girls and there's the ever-present ghost of Flavia's mother, Harriet, who everyone seems to know, respect, and admire. Will Flavia continue her superior ways as a detective and identify this mysterious body in the chimney?
3762567597	I love all of these Flavia deLuce books in this series. This one is a bit different because it is set in a girl's boarding school in Canada, and she is homesick and out of her element. It doesn't stop her though and she is still a brilliant sleuth and solves the murder (of a corpse that falls out of a chimney) once again! She is so impressive for a 12 year old, and I love it. I wasn't as thrilled in this setting as in her home at Buckshore, and felt there were too many characters in the mix. I gave it 3.5 stars. I still eagerly look forward to reading the next book in this series. I love to listen to these on audible books because they are all narrated by Jayne Entwistle and she is just superb with her characterizations in this series and I am glad Bradley kept it consistent by always using her for each book.Yaroo!!
4680670177	4 starsFlavia is shipped off to a boarding school in Canada. This is the same school her mother had attended. She is homesick and adjusting. And on her first night at school, a charred body drops down the chimney. So even though Flavia is badly missing her home (even I missed Buckshaw) , she has work to do. Flavia is a smart little cookie and her antics were very creative and funny. She not only succeeds in finding the identity of the charred body, but also the murderer and the case of missing students. I loved the story and Flavia in this one. I missed Buckshaw & Bishop's Lacey. A very good, clever mystery with good twists and a more than satisfactory ending.Happy Reading!!
1072854704	Another wonderful installment in this series. The 7th book & I'm still not tired of Flavia's story. I just want to give so much love to her, the little outcast that she is. This time she was in Canada &, although, it was great to have new characters & scenery, I missed Buckshaw & Bishop's Lacey.
2143857597	"Suddenly the world was my oyster—even if it was a dead one.”I'm not sure why but these audio books are becoming less and less enjoyable for me. It's not the reader, I think she's doing a great job. I think maybe it's Flavia. I am not amused with her anymore. Maybe because she is getting older and I think she should be less petty and annoying. Although that's probably unfair because I found her annoying in the first place, so maybe I've just come full circle (or back to where I started! ha!)I think these books have turned, for me, less about the mystery and more about Flavia and her dramas. I never liked her to start with so her traveling to Canada, manipulating new friends and becoming angry and frustrated at her family's lack of contact just wasn't appealing to turn page after page to read. I like this series for the interesting atmosphere while she digs into the mystery and solves it. There is just too much gap between moving along the mystery and slogging through Flaiva drama plot. I don't know that I'll finish this series out.
2377874748	Loved it! This is where I started with FDL, (book 7), with no expectations, (isn't it YA?) and was happily surprised that it was set in Canada. It's like, Unfortunate Events meets the Elegance of the Hedgehog, with a touch of a Mary Russell. The heroine is a sad, painfully deprived, self-involved little egotist, but somehow that's perfectly ok.
6220242801	Was it wrong to be so deceitful? Well, yes, it probably was. But if God hadn’t wanted me to be the way I am, He would have arranged to have me born a haddock instead of Flavia de Luce—wouldn’t He?it's giving when Poirot said "I am convinced that le bon Dieu created Hercule Poirot for the express purpose of interfering." and I'm obsessed with both of them for that.
2912838834	Ach, Flavia ist immer ein garant für ein amüsantes Buch. Ich finde ihr und der Geschichte hat der Szenenwechsel ganz gut getan. Bin neugierig wie es weitergeht, wäre echt schade wenn „DAS“ (ohne zu spoilern) schon zu Ende wäre. Ich finde ja dass der Autor sehr viel sehr gut macht. Gibt nichts zu bekriteln. Ausser dass Flavia halt über-megaschlau ist, aber davon lebt die Serie. :)
2973461110	Se avessi avuto una figlia come questa Flavia de Luce mi sarei adoperata per farla ammettere in quelle scuole per bambini prodigio: solo per togliermela dai cabasisi
1249057298	There are just a handful of series that I never miss these days and this is one of them, largely because I so adore the protagonist but also because I can always depend on the author to offer a truly good book. In the case of As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust, I was slightly less enthused but certainly not enough to say I didn't like it.My discontent stems from the setting of this particular entry. Much of Flavia's charm comes from her interactions with her family, her father's "man", their home, Buckshaw, and their village, Bishop's Lacey. This time, though, Flavia has been sent to Canada to attend her mother's boarding school and, to me, it just seemed awkward to have her suddenly isolated from all she has known in her short life. Having said that, Mr. Bradley soon develops some pretty good reasons for Flavia to be in this particular school and, of course, she becomes involved in a death investigation in her quite inimitable way.As much as I missed those familiar characters, there are certainly some at Miss Bodycote's that appealed to me in various ways, especially Collingwood, and it doesn't hurt that a body appears on the scene quite fortuitously, a most welcome distraction for the homesick Flavia.No matter her circumstances, Flavia cannot be repressed and my only true concern is that I have to wait till September for her next adventure, Thrice the Brinded Cat Hath Mew'd.Note: I both read the book and listened to the audio edition and, as always, Jayne Entwistle brings Flavia to life and continues to wow me as a wonderful narrator and voice of this charming young girl.
2331916350	Flavia, now part of an elite group known as the Nide, crosses the Atlantic in the company of a pair of doctors to attend Mrs. Bodycote's Female Academy in Toronto. On her first night, another girl scrambles up the chimney in Flavia's room to avoid being caught breaking curfew. She gets the fright of her life as she and a skeleton come crashing down the chimney. Flavia can't resist looking into the mystery although she lacks information access she might expect back home in Bishop's Lacey. She discovers several "missing" girls from recent years. Flavia, whose passion for poisons impresses, gets to study chemistry with a woman charged with murdering her husband but found innocent. This thrills her. Flavia does not know which fellow students are members of the Nide and which are not, so she must trust no one.Flavia charms the reader as much as in previous installments. Jayne Entwistle's narration equally delights the listener, making him feel as though he sat and heard a great storyteller. I look forward to the next installment.
6234374740	Really enjoying this series. Flavia reminds me of myself as a child, except that my pastime of choice was reading, not chemistry and that Flavia’s much more sophisticated about manipulating adults than I ever was.Flavia de Luce is packed off (“banished”, she feels) to a lonely matriculation at her mother Harriet’s old school, Miss Bodeycote’s Female Academy in Canada. It’s a typical boarding school, with bad food and ugly uniforms and church on Sundays.Of course, in the first few minutes Flavia even sets foot in the place, a body shows up.This is a corpse no one at the school can or will identify.So it’s up to precocious twelve year old Flavia, far away from home, homesick, and with no one to help her or confide in, to use her brilliant detective skills to solve the murder.This mystery is really convoluted too.The title, as usual, is derived from a poem, this one a quote from Shakespeare’s Cymbeline:Fear no more the heat o’ the sun,Nor the furious winter’s rages;Thou thy worldly task hast done,Home art gone, and ta’en thy wages:Golden lads and girls all must,As chimney sweepers, come to dust.
4857801204	I enjoyed this instalment of Flavia’s adventures more than I expected to. It’s not the best of the series by any means, but I still found it involving and a pleasure to read.Flavia is “banished” to Miss Bodycote’s Female Academy in Toronto to further her education. She is of course devastated to leave Buckshaw, but a mystery and possible murder (or murders) soon engages her attention, while it emerges that Miss Bodycote’s is not an ordinary finishing school.The exile from Buckshaw does diminish things a bit, and it’s not the same without Daffy, Feely, the marvellous Dogger and others, but the mystery is intriguing and well developed, and Flavia’s narrative voice is as engaging and entertaining as ever. She is also now making some rather shrewd comments about people’s behaviour and I’m enjoying her developing maturity in this way.It has to be said that there are some oddly unresolved pieces of plot and the solution felt a little rushed, but I still enjoyed the book very much. I’m also delighted to see her heading home and look forward to the next instalment.
2064158900	I was going to give this five stars, but I don't like the ending. The resolve was too quick, and I was disappointed by who the killer is. I wanted a much more complex story, and I didn't get it. But, before the ending, I leaned towards 5 stars because this isn't the formulaic Flavia novel. Sure, there's still a murder, but it's a murder in retrospect (as Dame Christie would call it), and it doesn't take place at Buckshaw or even in Bishop's Lacey. The story of Miss Bodycote's in Toronto and its girls and the Nide is developed even further in this book. I love that Bradley has added complexity to Flavia's intelligence and crime-solving capabilities; otherwise, there would be no reason to have an eight-book series with a ninth book in the works. I also appreciate that, like A Series of Unfortunate Events, this series reveals a backstory with the deceased that the child must unearth but that, unlike A Series of Unfortunate Events, this series actually provides answers. The books are still lighthearted and fun, and I continue to love and appreciate Flavia's voice. At the same time, I'm glad I'm almost caught up to Bradley, and I do hope that the ninth book is the last in the bunch because even delightful series can have a life that extends far beyond their appropriate expectancy.Oh, and I would skip "The Curious Case of the Copper Corpse," offered in the back of my edition. It's a short story with a meaningless case that isn't even interesting. Flavia doesn't even seem much like Flavia in it, and the resolution isn't much of anything.
907750053	First, a caveat: I was expecting a lot more from this book than it gave me, and those expectations were not unreasonable. In fact, they are a direct consequence of the way Mr. Bradley structured not only this book, but the last book in the series. I was expecting a sort of series reboot: Flavia at boarding school with a new cast of supporting characters, learning to be a spy and such. Or at the very least, that there should be real reason why he went to the trouble of movie Flavia all the way to Canada. I thought I was getting both for a while, and then it turns out . . . I wasn't.Let's back up a little. This book follows our intrepid twelve year old heroine, the hyper-intelligent chemistry whiz with a fascination for death and solving puzzles, as she's sent to Miss Bodycote's Female Academy in Toronto. It's also strongly hinted she will be trained to be a part of the same organization her mother and Aunt Felicity were in, the Nide. But on her very first night at school, a dead body wrapped in the Union Jack falls out of her chimney. And so she goes to work.I think I liked this book more as I was reading it than I do now thinking about it afterwards. I liked seeing Flavia navigate her new environment, and the mystery was pretty good, too, although it was nothing special. The best bits involved Flavia being homesick, and her relationship with her headmistress, a sort of antagonistic mix of discipline and affection. It also genuinely surprised me with a reveal at the end (even if the thing that surprised me was relatively inconsequential). Alas, Bradley makes the extremely puzzling decision at the end of the book to (view spoiler)[send Flavia back to Buckshaw after making so mistakes and breaking so many rules (although it didn't seem she had behaved so badly to me). Why did he do this? I have no idea. It makes this whole book seem pointless. Flavia doesn't learn how to be a spy, she makes no friends, and she barely solves the mystery. In an actually sort of insulting move, Bradley has Flavia draw the conclusion that her training was completed. I am completely baffled by this plot decision. I can only hope that the murderous chemistry teacher who escorts Flavia back to England is going to stick around, otherwise this whole book will have been pointless. (hide spoiler)]I'm still in for this series, but with more reservations now. I was overly optimistic that Bradley had addressed my concernes with his writing in the last book. Won't make that mistake next time.[3.5 stars]
1058892685	„Verbannt!“ Das ist alles woran Flavia denken kann, als sie von ihrem Vater auf ein Mädcheninternat nach Kanada geschickt wird. Flavia wäre aber nicht Flavia, wenn ihr nicht schon bei der nächstbesten Gelegenheit eine Leiche vor die Füße fallen würde. Eingerollt in eine verrußte Fahne kommt das Skelett geradewegs aus ihrem Kamin. Was für ein Zufall das ohnehin das Gerücht kursiert, es verschwinden immer wieder Mädchen von Miss Bodycort’s höherer Töchterschule. Ist nun eins dieser Mädchen zurückgekehrt? Flavia macht sich sofort daran zu ermitteln und vergisst dabei fast ihr Heimweh, aber nur fast. Ihr fehlen ihre Streiche spielenden Schwestern und vor allem vermisst sie Dogger, der mit seinen Ratschlägen ihrem rasiermesserscharfen Verstand immer wieder auf die Sprünge half. Je tiefer Flavia bohrt, desto näher kommt sie des Rätsels Lösung und wer hätte das gedacht auch ein bisschen ihrer Vergangenheit. Denn auch ihre Mutter war auf diesem Internat und hat dort einen bleibenden Eindruck hinterlassen.Ich bin ein bisschen unschlüssig bei diesem Buch. Einerseits fand ich den Tapetenwechsel für Flavia und mich mal ganz gut. Ich meine wie viele zufällige Leichen kann es in Bishop’s Lacy noch geben und das innerhalb von so kurzer Zeit. Andererseits haben mir die liebgewonnenen Nebenakteure gefehlt Mrs. Mullet und ihre unnachahmlichen Kochkünste, oder Ophelia und Daphne und deren Streiche, ja sogar den schweigsamen Colonel Luce habe ich vermisst. Es war aufregend neue Personen kennenzulernen und der Hauptprotagonistin dabei zu zusehen, wie sie ohne Doggers Hilfe den Fall knackt. Hier konnte sie sich aber auf die Hilfe der Chemielehrerin verlassen, die als verurteilte Giftmischerin und Mörderin ganz besonders Flavias Hochachtung genießt. Im Allgemeinen fand ich alles neu und aufregend und freute mich schon darauf die neuen Akteure, noch ein wenig begleiten zu dürfen. Die Möglichkeit mich ebenso mit den Internatsschülerinnen und Lehrern anzufreunden wurde mir jedoch genommen, denn Flavia bleibt nicht auf dem Internat, sondern wird gegen Ende des Buches zurückgeschickt nach England, zu ihrer geliebten Familie und Gladys. Das ist ein kleiner Wermutstropfen, der mich beim Lesen dieser Story ereilte. Nicht das ich mich nicht auf Bishop’s Lacy freuen würde, ich wäre nur gerne noch ein bisschen in Kanada geblieben. Dennoch durfte ich abermals eines von Flavias wundervollen Abenteuern folgen und ihrem scharfen Verstand bei der Arbeit beobachten. Flavia bleibt eben Flavia in England oder in Kanada und Leichen gibt es auf der ganzen Welt zu entdecken.
1067044221	As others have said, this is one of the best in the series. It is sort of like Flavia goes to Hogwarts (for female spies and assassins), but has quite interesting characters and features a fine chemical experiment at the end. I did miss Buckshaw and Bishop's Lacey.
1072521253	Despite the consecutive scenes of vomiting, and the grotesque (humorous, but still nauseating) ghost tale Flavia tells at the Ouija convention, this was a great, enjoyable read. Hard to put down; I finished it in less than three days.
2165791408	Seitsemäs Alan Bradleyn Flavia de Luce - sarjan salapoliisiromaani Nokisen tomumajan arvoitus on taattua Bradleyn tyyliä alusta loppuun asti. Sarjan päähenkilö on omasta mielestä karkotettu liian kauas pois kotoaan tyttöjen sisäoppilaitokseen saadakseen oppia, jossa vain Flavia ja muut hänen kaltaisensa nerokkaat tytöt saavat kouluopetusta. Kas, tavallinen kouluopetus ei oikein sovi, kun heillä on omia erikoisosaamisia, joita voisi vielä kehittää. Mutta sarjan lukeneet tietävät, että 12-vuotias Flavia on se, joka voi opettaa muita. Hän on aivan ylivertainen kaikessa, joka koskee kemiaa ja murhamysteerejä.No niinhän siinä pääsi jälleen käymään, että Flavia oli tuskin päässyt sisäoppilaitokseen, kun hän osui kuolleeseen ihmisruumiiseen. Näinhän on joka kirjassa tapahtunut. Suurin piirtein yksi ruumis per kirja, joten Flavialla on tähän mennessä kokemusta seitsemästä ruumiista noin vuoden ajalta, sillä hän on vanhentunut sarjan aikana vuodella.Jotta lukijat eivät tietäisi kaikkea mahdollista tästä uudesta kirjasta ja uudesta murhatapauksesta, kerron vain sen verran, että ruumiilla oli nokinen tomumaja, kuten kirjan nimestä voi päätellä. Ruumis liittyy läheisesti sisäoppilaitokseen (jota Harrietkin oli käynyt), mutta ei ole oppilas eikä henkilökuntaa. Murhaaja ja muutkin kirjan mysteerit selvisivät ilman muuta Flavian ansiosta, mutta saiko hän siitä arvostusta ja kunniaa…
3906303836	W 7 części bohaterka przenosi się do internatu żeńskiej akademii, gdzie znów bawiąc się w Sherlocka Holmesa, próbuje ustalić tożsamość zmumifikowanego ciała. Nowe miejsce i nowe tajemnice! Ponoć akademia jest nawiedzona, a przecież nie ma lepszej zachęty dla naszej rozbójniczki, by się tam poczuć jak w domu.
3461292463	Flavia's ratting on always manage to come up with answers to questions but things are discovered. Always fun listening to her chatter. Lol
4102519790	** spoiler alert ** I was excited to read this; the events in book #6 made me think that the author was going to take Flavia and her story in a new direction... into some super secret spy thriller territory. Instead, she's sent off to a boarding school in Canada, where nothing much different happens. She does, of course, come across a dead body, and solves that mystery. She doesn't seem to attend many classes, either regular or "special". (I expected some special spy training, but there wasn't much of that). I mean, she's only 12, so it's not likely there would be a LOT of super special spy training, but still. I don't know, this one just kind of fell flat for me. I missed Bishop's Lacey and Buckshaw, and Dogger. Maybe it's a transitional book in the series, and the next ones will make up for it.
1557231312	Für alle, die diese Reihe, aus welch unerfindlichen Gründen auch immer, noch nicht kennen: Flavia wächst in einem alten Cottage am Rande eines kleinen englischen Dorfes auf. Ihre Mutter hat sie nie kennengelernt, denn sie verschwand irgendwo in den Tiefen des Himalaya, als Flavia noch ein Baby war. Ihr Vater, ein stocksteifer Colonel, hat nicht viel für Gefühle übrige - dafür zeigen ihre beiden Schwestern Daphne und Ophelia wo sie nur können, wie sehr sie ihre jüngste Schwester verachten und aus dem Weg haben wollen. In dieser trauten Einsamkeit hat Flavia ein ganz eigenes System entwickelt, um der erdrückenden Schwermut zu entgehen: Sie hat ein Faible für den Tod und für Chemie - eine ungewöhnliche Mischung, die aber perfekt zusammenpasst. In ihrem jungen Leben sind ihr nämlich schon einige Leichen vor die Füße gefallen und auch in ihrem neuen Abenteuer muss man nicht lange auf einen neuen Fall warten ...--- Die Handlung --- schickt Flavia dieses Mal über den Atlanik. Um sie auf ihre große und geheime Aufgabe vorzubereiten, wird sie nach Kanada in Miss Bodycotes höhere Mädchenschule geschickt. Eine ganz neue Herausforderung, denn Flavia fühlt sich verstoßen und noch einsamer als bisher. Herausgerissen aus ihren Wurzeln bleibt ihr nichts anderes übrig, als sich auf die neue Situation einzustellen und stürzt sich mit ihrer typischen Verdrängungsdynamik auf die Aufklärung eines Mordes - bzw. einer Leiche, die ihr direkt vor die Füße fällt.Anfangs stehen die Schule und ihre neuen Mitschülerinnen im Mittelpunkt - ein düsterer Ort voller Geheimnisse und viele Mädchen, die nicht leicht zu durchschauen sind. Ab der Hälfte wurde es dann richtig spannend und das Miträtseln hat wieder viel Spaß gemacht!Im 6. Band wurde ja viel aufgeklärt, was hinter dem Verschwinden ihrer Mutter steckt und auch wenn ich das ganze etwas abstrus finde, bin ich gespannt, wie es sich noch entwickeln wird.Alan Bradley hat hier eine ganz neue Kulisse geschaffen, die für Abwechslung gesorgt und ganz neue Seiten in Flavia hervorgerufen hat.An neuen --- Charakteren --- hat es hier wirklich nicht gemangelt!Die Lehrkräfte, allen voran die undurchsichtige Direktorin Fawlthorne, aber auch die Chemielehrein Mildred Bannerman, die wegen versuchten Mordes schon einmal vor Gericht stand, geben einige Rätsel auf.Die Mitschülerinnen, mit deren Umgang sich Flavia erst zurechtfinden muss und ein neuer Inspektor, den sie natürlich ganz genau unter die Lupe genommen hat ...Flavia selbst zeigt dieses Mal Gefühle, die sie hier in der Fremde nicht mehr so leicht verstecken kann. Während sie sich bisher zuhause durch ihre Experimente in ihrem Chemielabor ablenken oder durch Herumstromern in Bishops Lacy jeglicher Konfrontation aus dem Weg gehen konnte, bleiben ihr auf der Mädchenschule nicht viele Möglichkeiten. Fern der Heimat fühlt sie sich so alleingelassen wie noch nie, aber sie besinnt sich immer wieder tapfer auf ihr ausgeprägtes Selbstbewusstsein und ihren bravourösen Verstand. Man merkt jedoch immer wieder, dass sie einfach ein junges Mädchen ist, dass sich mit einer bewundernswerten Vehemenz durchkämpft.Der --- Schreibstil --- ist wie immer sehr fesselnd und mit viel Wortgewandtheit ein richtiges Vergnügen. Dieses Mal waren nicht ganz so viele chemische Formeln, aber trotzdem wieder viel Wissen versteckt.FazitHerausgerissen aus ihrer gewohnten Abgeschiedenheit hat es Flavia in diesem Band nicht leicht, doch ihre Neugier und ihr nicht kleinzukriegendes Ego lassen sie wieder mal einen Mord mit üblicher Manier enträtseln.© AleshaneeWeltenwandererFlavia de Luce1 - Mord im Gurkenbeet2 - Mord ist kein Kinderspiel3 - Halunken, Tod und Teufel4 - Vorhang auf für eine Leiche5 - Schlussakkord für einen Mord6 - Tote Vögel singen nicht7 - Eine Leiche wirbelt Staub auf
1155266070	But if God hadn't wanted me to be the way I am, He would have arranged to have me born a haddock instead of Flavia de Luce--wouldn't He?Flavia happens to be one of the greatest fictional detectives, mystery-solvers, trouble-enhancer I've happened to come across. It was my sincere hope that she would succeed as well at spying and assassinating but that is a prime example of me getting ahead of myself, Flavia and Alan Bradley, which is not advisable.FdL mysteries, with the exception of book #6, have been so far, it's my belief upon having read only three of the previous six installments, winter reads--the kind of stories to provide satisfaction while snuggled up in a Harry Potter comforter (actually no can do: pretty as it is, it doesn't insulate from the cold THAT good). On the other hand, As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust was an exciting tale, the kind that impels one to bite off the nails of both pinkies, for lack of (in recalling) a better terminology. ACSCtD is remarkable different, in other manners, from its predecessors. For one, Flavia has been banished to a boarding school in Canada, the same where her mother studied, which may or may not be a super-secret-spy-school.Upon her arrival, she comes across--or rather, a dead body comes across her, demanding to be avenged. Because obviously. But now, it's not simply about bringing justice to the killer and the dead; her super-secret-might-be-for-spies school is enmeshed in it, and a big part of the book is comprised of deciding whether the school itself is a murderer,--which seems reasonable, with the ghost of three missing girls haunting Ouija boards and laundry rooms and might in turn jeopardize her stay here, THE ESTEEMED SCHOOL WHERE THE ESTEEMED HARRIET STUDIED.Flavia has her trademark sarcastic wit and frank observation in firm grasp, making her the perfect vessel to tell the story. However, with backlash from the recent grave (pun in bad taste intended) circumstances still casting a pall over her, this estrangement from her family, all that she's known, in a strange country makes for a sad, lonely Flavia. But being who she is, she gets back on her feet with encouragement from the basic principles of chemistry.The telling remains both serious and humorous, without going over the top one bit so that her voice is realistically portrayed. And so I wouldn't have a thing changed. Who can say no to a personal matter? Even God is curious about such things, which is why He listens to our prayers.But there was no point in feeling sorry for myself. It is always better, and far more rewarding, I have observed, to have someone else feel sorry for you than to do the job yourself.Feigning stupidity was one of my specialities. If stupidity were theoretical physics, I would be Albert Einstein. Would you?If you aren't a FdL fan, either because you couldn't garner enough interest for the second book or you haven't read it, I suggest you read book #1, skip all in between, book #6, and then book #7. WHY? Because, this book alone is worth it and Flavia throughout--if you can manage--is worth it. Thank you, Random House Publishing Group - Bantam Dell!
3359541983	This book was also a strange change of pace from the rest of the series. It was almost like an episode of a TV show that introduces a whole new cast of characters so that they can create a spin-off series. Flavia's adventure was still an interesting one (and it was nice for Bishop's Lacey to have a break from murders), and I enjoyed the change of pace. However, I'm still not 100% sure why we changed settings for this book, since I'm not sure that it actually contributed that much to the overall canon. Still a cute read though.
1100115182	Delectable. Like all of the books that star Flavia de Luce, this installment is a confection. The setting has changed because Flavia has been banished (three syllables, please!) from her beloved home in England. We meet her on the ship carrying her to Toronto and her new home - Miss Bodycote's Female Academy. She is heartbroken. Her mood lightens, however, when a body falls out of the chimney in her new room. Wouldn't anyone's? The investigation reveals that girls have gone missing, her mother's membership in a secret society may be connected to the odd tasks she is given, and her new chemistry teacher is a soulmate who was once tried for murder. Some of the students seem to hint at her anticipated initiation into the society; others are brutes. Add to the mix the possibility of poisons (her favorite subject) and the changes she is going through as she turns twelve and begins to have unusual mood swings. Pour a cup of tea (and check the brew before you sip) and enjoy!I received an ARC of this book from NetGalley. This is an honest review.
1163366370	I was given a copy of this book by Net Galley in return for an honest review.This is the 7th book in the Flavia De Luce series by Alan Bradley and the 2nd book I have read by the author. I have to admit to been a little bit surprised by how much I enjoyed this book, the book is well plotted and full of interesting characters and a large slice of humour. The more I read of this book the more I enjoyed it and by half way through I couldn't put it down. Flavia is a 12 year old girl who gets mixed up in trouble where ever she goes and tries to uncover the truth in her own entertaining way. My recommendation is to give this series a chance and don't be put off by any preconceived ideas. I was hesitant to choose this book to read because the main character was a 12 year old girl and I mistakenly thought it would not be to my liking. But I am so glad I read it and intend to read more of this series.
1133647273	Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for providing me with an advance copy of Alan Bradley's latest book. I have been meaning to read the Flavia de Luce series for some time, although I was a bit sceptical about the idea of a detective series aimed at adults featuring an 11 year old detective. So I was glad to get a chance to read this advance copy to see whether this series is for me. And I was happily surprised. Bradley is a lovely writer and has given Flavia a great narrative voice. The story in this book was set in a private girls' boarding school and was good and full of great characters. As a bonus, while I gather the series is generally set in the UK, this instalment was set in Toronto in the 1950s with references to familiar neighbourhoods. I know I missed some aspects of Flavia's own story by starting seven books in, but this has only made me feel like going back and starting from the beginning. Good light read for the holiday season!
1173912375	"A body in the chimney doesn't just fall into your lap every day." Unless, of course, you're Flavia de Luce. Last year when I briefly believed that Alan Bradley was done writing about my favorite 11 year-old sleuth chemist, I was heartbroken. Luckily, he had only moved her across an ocean to Miss Bodycote's Female Academy in Canada and allowed her to turn 12.For Flavia fans, the formula remains the same. She's still smart, funny, stubborn and a bit wistful. Most importantly she'd knee-deep in murder within the first chapter.I did miss Buckshaw and the tension with her family. Boarding school girls are no replacement for Ophelia, Daphe, Dogger and Mrs. Mullet. But some interesting new faces have appeared and Flavia's future is left uncertain at the end of this installment. I can't wait for the next one.
1278202437	This was long-awaited and did not disappoint.Even though Flavia is removed from that wonderful house in England with her chemistry lab (which I consider practically a character in the books), she manages to keep the reader occupied as she navigates the personalities in her new environment, the girls' school in Canada.The plot is good, although I was a bit disappointed to learn "who done it," but Flavia continues to finagle her independence when confronted with authority and expectations. Readers may feel happy to learn what I did at the conclusion of this story regarding future developments. I must admire how Alan Bradley managed to keep Flavia such a fascinating character even far away from her beloved home and country.
1086055111	*NetGalley book review*I was over the moon happy when I got approved to read an ARC of this goodie. Glad I didn't have to wait for it to come out. I just absolutely love this series. Flavia is a very cute and quirky character, I don't want this series to ever end.Now with this said, I was a little worried as this story takes Flavia away from home and I didn't really like that for her. Made the book feel like it was missing something, but everything worked out in the end and I am so glad for that. This hasn't even hit the store shelves yet, but I can't wait till the next book. :)
1094688538	Flavia de Luce has been sent off to boarding school in Toronto. The night of her arrival, a corpse is dislodged from the fireplace in Flavia's room. She's instantly alert to the possibilities of the case. Miss Bodycote's Female Academy is a mysterious school and Flavia doesn't know who to trust, if anybody. She finds herself in the shadow of her elusive mother Harriet. Flavia misses her home, Dogger, her village friends, and even her sisters. This was an enjoyable read and a good mystery; ultimately, though, I too missed Dogger, Buckshaw, and Bishop's Lacey.
3045992344	Another Flavia de Luce. She is sent away to "finishing" school in Canada and of course there is a murder. This has a few different twists and turns in light of the new setting. It moves the backstory along a bit. Enjoyable.
1374539428	Another cozy Flavia de Luce mystery. Not since Arya Stark or Hermione Granger have I been so in love with a fictional little girl.Review after second read: Not my favourite Flavia book, but I always enjoy her as a character, no matter the circumstances of the plot.
2763565288	If you’re anything like me, you adore rot (p. 3). What a great opening line! In eight words, Alan Bradley reminds us of everything we've learned about Flavia de Luce in the previous six books in the series: 12-year-old Flavia de Luce is precocious, has quite unusual interests, and doesn't quite understand others (especially, but not only, adults).Flavia – "the first syllable rhymes with 'brave' and 'grave.' And 'forgave'" – is precocious, often annoyingly so (p. 77). She comments on everything, jumps to conclusions (despite knowing, as a scientist, that she shouldn't), and actively misunderstands most other people in the way that many 12-year-olds do. A conversation between a person of my age and a person of hers is like a map of a maze: There are things that each of us knows, and that each of us knows the other knows, that can be talked about. But there are things that each of us knows that the other doesn’t know we know, which must not be spoken of, no matter what. Because of our ages, and for reasons of decency, there are what Daffy would refer to as taboos: forbidden topics which we may stroll among like islands of horse dung in the road that, although perfectly evident to both of us, must not be mentioned or kicked at any cost. It’s a strange world when you come right down to it. (pp. 158-159)Flavia doesn't understand others, but at the same time she can be as insightful as all get out. She does not take the most direct path from A to Zed, but that path is inevitably an exciting one. This combination – bright, curious, and insightful, yet often mistaken – makes Flavia both annoying and interesting. She isn't perfect.Despite jumping to (wrong) conclusions about people on limited data, Flavia saves the day. She knows chemicals and the scientific process and anything to do with them. Her curiosity, persistence, and willingness to stick with and pursue a problem compensate for any shortcomings. In sum, Flavia is a fun read on a chilly, gray weekend – or a warm, blue one.
2015702561	There are just a handful of series that I never miss these days and this is one of them, largely because I so adore the protagonist but also because I can always depend on the author to offer a truly good book. In the case of As Chimney Sweepers Come to Dust, I was slightly less enthused but certainly not enough to say I didn't like it.My discontent stems from the setting of this particular entry. Much of Flavia's charm comes from her interactions with her family, her father's "man", their home, Buckshaw, and their village, Bishop's Lacey. This time, though, Flavia has been sent to Canada to attend her mother's boarding school and, to me, it just seemed awkward to have her suddenly isolated from all she has known in her short life. Having said that, Mr. Bradley soon develops some pretty good reasons for Flavia to be in this particular school and, of course, she becomes involved in a death investigation in her quite inimitable way.As much as I missed those familiar characters, there are certainly some at Miss Bodycote's that appealed to me in various ways, especially Collingwood, and it doesn't hurt that a body appears on the scene quite fortuitously, a most welcome distraction for the homesick Flavia.No matter her circumstances, Flavia cannot be repressed and my only true concern is that I have to wait till September for her next adventure, Thrice the Brinded Cat Hath Mew'd.Note: I both read the book and listened to the audio edition and, as always, Jayne Entwistle brings Flavia to life and continues to wow me as a wonderful narrator and voice of this charming young girl.
1638817076	This seventh volume in the Flavia de Luce series started off promisingly with her exile to a girl's school in Canada where she was to learn some of the skills she would need to take on her role in the government secret service organisation to which her deceased mother belonged, as we learned in volume 6. Things get moving pretty quickly with the discovery of a dead body up a chimney. Even the identity of said body is in doubt, as three girls have apparently disappeared from the school a few years before. Flavia is cut off from her normal milieu and one of my favourite fictional characters, Dogger, her father's valet and Flavia's mentor. The dynamic is very different: she is not whizzing around on her bicycle Gladys and querying adults - there are other girls to deal with, some of whom also seem to be in training for the same security service. However, none of them become soul mates to Flavia's and our disappointment and the uncertainty about the victim and murderer persists until late on in the story when it is rather abruptly resolved involving a character who was so throw away earlier on, I couldn't even recall their appearance. I also couldn't fathom why she and possibly others had changed their identities so that part of it remains a muddle. So although I enjoyed most of the story, as with volume 6 I found the ending rather anti-climactic. Hence only a 4-star rating.
1134455939	It's been a while since I read this series, but I need to catch up now that I have an ARC for the newest release. Unfortunately, this was only okay. It didn't feel like the same style of cozy mystery that the earlier books had. That just might be because this takes place in an academy in Canada, with Flavia being the only familiar face appearing in the story. I'm hoping it course corrects itself in the later books.
995478418	I do enjoy these books, but like Flavia I was homesick for Bishop's Lacey. The boarding school was fun as was the furthering of the mysterious Nye. I will say the mystery wrapped up rather conveniently.
7692074667	Amazing as always. The ending felt like it skipped ahead too quickly. I listened to the last two chapters again to see if I had accidentally bumped it ahead, but no, that’s how it reads. Otherwise, it’s Flavia perfection. I devoured it in a day and I rarely do that. ❤️
4588528240	DNFd at 56% due to a Oija board séance and discussions of the occult
3924803770	Flavia uprooted from Buckshaw and Bishop’s Lacey and “banished” to Miss Bodycote’s Female Academy in Toronto, Canada. I had trouble staying invested in this one, sadly, though it ends on a high note.
3335714940	Another fantastic story by Alan Bradley.
4138992114	I must say, I am certainly learning a lot of dark chemistry from these books. Sent off to academy, our Flavia fledges through, trying to follow the rules of “no questions” and “trust no one” while also looking into a series of vanished students and staff. Not knowing who she can ask for help, she tackles it mostly on her own. The characters in this book are mostly insignificant, as they don’t last, and it makes for a shallow read. The big reveal seemed rushed and disjointed. As whole, just not the best in this series. But plenty more to follow, so off I go.
