4397921555	Never was a fan of poetry, although I sometimes like long poems. I really enjoyed Byron's style and dark topics, but still not a fan of a genre in general.
3412350532	103rd book of 2020.I was surprised how much I absolutely adored this. Byron is now my definitive poet, my favourite. And this book will join the ranks of my favourites.Byron Road Sign in my Hometown - Photo by Me. Concerning the selection of poems in this book, Byron's poetry moves from horribly nostalgic and wistful, to funny and witty, to heartbreakingly beautiful, to wonderful narratives... All with his incredible control, and impeccable rhyme. Some stanzas just spoke right to me, straight from the yellowed pages. These moments are the reason I read. It makes my mind spiral - how does it happen sometimes, with such clarity that we disbelieve mere coincidence - that what we are reading aids us, or reflects something, that we are feeling at the time. That Byron, through countless generations issues me a thought, a line, that pierces the fleshy part of my soul. These are some of the greatest poems I have ever read. Byron is a privilege to read and a reminder, of what a privilege all reading is, what knowledge and beauty it imparts on us. I'm going to move into quoting some of my favourite stanzas, before I type incessantly all night about how brilliant Byron is, until my words lose all meaning and I just become a rambling idiot. Almost there.'When We Two Parted' is perhaps Byron's most well-known poem, and most loved. Though the whole poem is beautiful, I would say that its reputation is worthy of just the final stanza:In secret we met— In silence I grieve,That thy heart could forget, Thy spirit deceive.If I should meet thee After long years,How should I greet thee?— With silence and tears.And, now I will say: 'The Prisoner of Chillon' is up there, in my mind, as one of the greatest poems I've ever read. The final stanza reflects, in a way beyond me, or maybe anyone but Byron, how I feel as lockdown comes to an end, and we begin to emerge from our 'caves'.It might be months, or years, or days—I kept no count, I took no note—I had no hope my eyes to raise,And clear them of their dreary mote;At last men came to set me free;I ask'd not why, and reck'd not where;It was at length the same to me,Fetter'd or fetterless to be,I learn'd to love despair.And thus when they appear'd at last,And all my bonds aside were cast,These heavy walls to me had grownA hermitage—and all my own!And half I felt as they were comeTo tear me from a second home:With spiders I had friendship madeAnd watch'd them in their sullen trade,Had seen the mice by moonlight play,And why should I feel less than they?We were all inmates of one place,And I, the monarch of each race,Had power to kill—yet, strange to tell!In quiet we had learn'd to dwell;My very chains and I grew friends,So much a long communion tendsTo make us what we are:—even IRegain'd my freedom with a sigh.
1917698	You either love Byron or you hate him. And it should probably come as no surprise that I absolutely adore him. The original goth-emo boy. Man did it with style, though. His life is fascinating, ridiculous, over the top. Watching his journey through poetry is just amazing, watching how throughly his sorrows and his fantasy life consumes him. Byron's fantasies are beautifully put down through his poetry. It's a shame, but not a surprise, that those fantasies are what ultimately killed him.
3836130110	Se puede afirmar que la vida de Lord Byron, mitificada desde el propio período romántico, ha eclipsado en gran medida a su obra poética. De hecho, los críticos literarios anglosajones rara vez han tomado los versos del aventurero realmente en serio, y los han relegado a una segunda categoría en la historia de la poesía inglesa. Sin embargo, en sus poemas podemos encontrar gran parte de las virtudes líricas que ensalzaron el Romanticismo a movimiento capital en el desarrollo vital de la literatura.
63907246	Lord Byron was, until the age of biological engineering, pretty much the zenith of human development. Lord knows what he could have done with 80mg per diem sustained release Adderall® {dextro}?amphetamine salts or, like, elephant pituitary extracts, or hell even some Centrum and antibiotics instead of therapeutic bleeding, but it's exciting to read him (or about him) and ponder what'll happen when we can start giving people three hearts each, like octopodes.
84573393	Well, so far I've learned that skulls make excellent goblets for wine. Better than the thoughts it contained in life!Byron may have romanticized about women, but he also hid men in there as well.I find a lot of it hard to read but I end up reading this in a really broken fashion. I work at a call center where I can't really enjoy it between calls, then at home I'm always gardening, eating, cooking, shopping, or facebooking so I read a poem a day at the most.Where I was going with that is that I may not be the most credible source to write a review but I know I went into it expecting a certain something and I haven't fully gotten that yet. It's been hinted at that he's going where I want him to but he never quite gets there. I may just be looking for Edgar Alan Poe in the wrong place if you know what I mean. I did begin with the Cantos' and they were loooong, but I made it through anyway, just in case, to no avail. Now, I have made it to shorter poems. Only a few have struck my fancy so far. I'm hoping there's a lot more than a few that will really get me, I'm only halfway through so far.
2012366883	„О, слънце на безсънните! Звездамеланхолична с блясък на сълза!Безсилна срещу нощни тъмнини,ти спомняш радостта от други дни. Тъй миналото свети: светлинасияеща, ала без топлина.Среднощен лъч от спомен възкресен —чист, но далечен; светъл, но студен.“Превод: Любен Любенов
5571086784	4.5⭐
1306723589	My review of Childe Harold is here!My reivew of Don Juan is here!I have to admit that Byron took me a really, really long time to finish. I am not sure if I can put my finger on why that is, but he's taken much longer to read than other poets, even others from his very own time period. Long story short, I find his poetry to be a little harder to follow- to compare to Keats, who is my favorite poet, I can say this: Keats has a flow to his poetry that I can't find in Byron's poetry, and while I can't say that I don't enjoy Byron, I don't enjoy it as much as Keats. I am afraid that I might be a bit more fixated on this fact than I should be, but hey, that's the way it is...I thoroughly enjoy the longer works of Byron, excluding the plays and early satires. "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage" is a wonderful work, and probably the most masterful work that Byron ever put out there. The regret that I have is that there's something in that work that made me think "Oh, this must mean that his other poems are going to be like this! Great!" I think I ran into a little fallacy there- like I mentioned before, the satires and plays that take up so much space in this collection tend to be a bit more boring that I'd like them to be, chock-full of allusions that seem to be a go-to for many poets as well as talking about many issues that I cannot relate to myself. I regret not finding more enjoyment in reading this poetry, but I cannot change what I know to be true: Byron fell a bit flat for me, perhaps warranting a revisit and reevaluation in the future.
6575044375	,,და თვალებს ვხუჭავ მხოლოდ იმისთვის,რომ თვალთა ხედვა მივმართო შიგნით.”
2293860531	skippede don juan og childe harold, men fire stjerner for de kortere værker
5921708289	Despite the controversies surrounding Byron as a person, his poetry is a capsule of the European Romantic movement and I enjoyed his work immensely, in particular his shorter poems rather than winding stories like the Giaour (perhaps simply down to the intricate language used paired with the length, they did not particularily catch my eye).Although most will know him for his infamous poem 'She Walks in Beauty' , this is, in my opinion, far from his best work with some of my favourites from this collection in particular including 'Maid of Athenes, Ere We Part', 'Stanzas for Music' and 'One Struggle More and I am Free'.'There's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away.When the glow of early thought declines in feeling's dull decay.'Tis not on youth's smooth cheek the blush alone, which fades so fast,But the tender bloom of heart is gone, ere youth itself be past.'- from Stanzas for Music
3518444690	I didn't know how much I loved the English language until I read Lord ByronShe Walks in BeautyShe walks in beauty, like the nightOf cloudless climes and starry skies;And all that’s best of dark and brightMeet in her aspect and her eyes;Thus mellowed to that tender lightWhich heaven to gaudy day denies.One shade the more, one ray the less,Had half impaired the nameless graceWhich waves in every raven tress,Or softly lightens over her face;Where thoughts serenely sweet express,How pure, how dear their dwelling-place.And on that cheek, and over that brow,So soft, so calm, yet eloquent,The smiles that win, the tints that glow,But tell of days in goodness spent,A mind at peace with all below,A heart whose love is innocent.
7227786908	"When we two parted In silence and tears,Half broken-hearted To sever for years,Pale grew thy cheek and cold, Colder thy kiss;Truly that hour foretold Sorrow to this.The dew of the morning Sunk chill on my brow— It felt like the warning Of what I feel now.Thy vows are all broken, And light is thy fame;I hear thy name spoken, And share in its shame.They name thee before me, A knell to mine ear;A shudder comes o'er me— Why wert thou so dear?They know not I knew thee, Who knew thee too well—Long, long shall I rue thee, Too deeply to tell.In secret we met— In silence I grieve,That thy heart could forget, Thy spirit deceive.If I should meet thee After long years,How should I greet thee?— With silence and tears."
4009858456	Su padre un hombre que vivió del derroche y los placeres carnales. Su madre un carácter terrible... De su padre heredo el gusto por la cultura y su gusto por una vida licenciosa. De su madre la ternura, la dulzura y su horrible temperamento. En el poema hacia Grecia se nota cuánto sabía de tan hermosa civilización.
3661475763	Lord "dramatic ass of million words" Byron
4233317856	It has my favorite poem in it so it has to be 5 stars 😂
4590273217	Nice book
3154872687	Conocer a un autor más por sus “excentricidades” en pleno desarrollo del siglo XIX, es por cuanto más yo conocía a Byron. Sabia que había robado la idea del personaje de vampiro, que conocía a Shelly, que fue bisexual y alcohólico empedernido. Pero quizás por algunas versos sueltos leídos por ahí, no conocía casi nada de sus propias palabras. En estos poemas escogidos, está toda la influencia de un romanticismo que le sale por cada uno de los poros, toda la curatoria de este poemario pasa por el amor, la juventud, la inmortalidad después de morir y quizás del deseo de vivir. Conlleva a entender su importancia en las letras mundiales, quien plasmó sentimientos en sus páginas, quizás como precursor. Es un poemario excelente para ir conociéndolo y como es ya clásico, siempre se podrá encontrar algo más de él por ahí. Una lectura calma para un verano ardiente. (...) “Hora es que este corazón ya no se conmueva,/como otros, ha dejado de moverse:/aún así, aunque no pueda ser amado,/¡dejadme al menos que ame!” “En vano luchar; dejadme parecer joven,/vivir como he vivido y amar como he amado;/al polvo volver, si vuelvo, pues del polvo surgí,/y entonces, por fin, nunca más se conmoverá mi corazón.” “Aunque la noche fue hecha para amar,/y el día regresa demasiado pronto, aún así, ya no vagaremos más/bajo la luz de la luna.” “Pero ya es cierto -sobran las palabras mis palabras-/aún serían más inútiles;/pero los pensamientos que no podemos dominar/fuerzan su sendero sin voluntad.” (...)
1738939957	GGLB is one of the best when it comes to romantic poetry. Over dramatic, yes, but there's something... I don't know, hmmm... this really nice feeling I get when I read his poems. Came across The Destruction of Sennacherib way back High School and have loved (still loves) his work ever since. When we two partedIn silence and tears,Half broken-heartedTo sever for years,Pale grew thy cheek and cold,Colder thy kiss;Truly that hour foretoldSorrow to this.The dew of the morningSank chill on my brow--It felt like the warningOf what I feel now.Thy vows are all broken,And light is thy fame;I hear thy name spoken,And share in its shame.They name thee before me,A knell in mine ear;A shudder come o'er me--Why wert thou so dear?They know not I knew thee,Who knew thee too well--Long, long shall I rue thee,Too deeply to tell.In secret we met--In silence I grieve,That thy heart could forget,Thy spirit deceive.If I should meet theeAfter long years,How should I greet thee?--With silence and tears.
485527052	George Noel Gordon lord Byron"Romanje grofiča Harolda"drugi spev, kitici 25, 26Razmišljati na skalah tik prepada;počasi stopati skoz gozdni mrak,kjer so stvari, ki človek jim ne vladain kjer ni hodil še njegov korak;za čredo divjih koz skoz siv oblakv neznano plezati po gorski steni;strmeti v slapa belogrivi trak -to ni samota - to samo pomenipomenkovati se z naravo v vsej lepoti njeni.A v hrupu, gneči gledati, čutiti,živeti med ljudmi in od spoznanjutrujen tujec v tujem svetu biti,brez koga, ki bi bil dvom tvojih sanjbrez koga, ki bi ti bil sreča zanj,brez koga, ki kot ti ta svet zaznava,ki bi, ko umreš, smejal se malo manjkot ves ta svet, ki zdaj te obletava -to je res biti sam, to je samota prava.
1255498967	This verse from "Beppo" describes exactly what New Yorkers feel often during our daily commute or walking through the streets: "One of those forms which flit by us, when weAre young and fix our eyes on every face;And, oh! the loveliness at times we seeIn momentary gliding, the soft grace,The youth, the bloom, the beauty which agree, In many a nameless being we retrace, Whose course and home we knew not, nor shall know..."
1738863843	ای دلِ خیال پرداز آرام باش یا بشکن
4291659119	Every time I return to Byron's poetry, which I do frequently, i'm always left in awe by his brilliance.
463082511	Lovely
7399801617	stumbled upon this the other day. i studied Byron + other Romantics in English Literature and i was pondering whether he would continue to impress me if i read his other works now that i'm an adult. Byron's poems adopt different structures. he plays with structures depending on what his point of discussion was. he commonly employs the dramatic monologue (in poems like 'Canto II'). much like the Romantics, his stanzas are longer than the typical Shakespearean stanzas. Byron focuses on the same themes. he has the typical fascination with nature the Romantics had - the way Nature was considered to override human glory, ambition and Death - but he's more cheeky with his depiction. loneliness almost feels like an epidemic in his writing. it permeates his stanzas as he considers the way one is left to tend to their own wounds after love or after chasing glory their entire life. 'Canto II' is the perfect illustration of this, with verses such as "or burst the vanish'd Hero's lofty mound; / far on the solitary shore he sleeps" or "look on its broken arch, its ruin'd wall; / its chambers desolate, and portals foul; / yes, this was once Ambition's airy hall". at other times, he directly addresses a person (see 'Prometheus') or he indulges in storytelling ('the Giaour' or 'the Corsair'). but despite Byron seemingly wishing to distance himself from other poets with his exploration of Balkans, 'the Giaour' clearly exposes how Byron’s writings still hold the Western eighteenth century mentality of other States and other religions. while he explores different ethnicities & different nationalities in this poem, 'the Giaour' is just one example of Byron still believing Balkan societies (just to name some) are 'harsh' and 'cruel'. i will say that if you've read one Byronic poem, you've read them all. this is a moot point to make when considering the era Byron wrote in, but i will make a note of it regardless. the same themes appear: the sole hero tormented by loneliness, Nature and Death's ever-lasting fight, the ephemeral nature of life, the pointlessness of glory and ambition, the reoccurrence of Greek figures & Greek mythology (Greece is a place Byron evidently adored judging by his writings alone). Romanticism came with the same exploration of the same themes, and if you are intrigued in poems exploring nature and love and the way Nature outlives all of us... this will be the era you should read poems from. this was my favourite era in literature, and Byronic poems are some of my favourite (hence the 4-star rating), but the discrepancies in some of his texts are noteworthy.
3241002767	An average poet, though dark and deep for his time.I only really liked the excerpts from Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and a few of the shorter poems.
7545975784	"They mourn, but smile at length; and, smiling, mourn:The tree will wither long before it fall;The hull drives on, though mast and sail be torn;The roof-tree sinks, but moulders on the hallIn massy hoariness; the ruin'd wallStands when its wind-worn battlements are gone;The bars survive the captive they enthral;The day drags through though storms keep out the sun;And thus the heart will break, yet brokenly live on:"-Lord Byron, Childe Harold's Pilgrimage: Canto III, XXXII
4691370543	Benedict was correct 🤣
5263476831	took almost three years and worth every minute spent. you are beloved, b.
7490327797	El romántico no es víctima ni victimario sino inspirado, un poeta que expresa la separación como un sufrimiento profundo.
2356988010	Himalayan in range, a much-contoured country; Byron’s verse is an atlas by Atlas.Self-conscious, more poet than poetry, More person than persona. The cutlass,The divan, romance and comedy; From fashion to a tomb in Hellas.All told there’s but one point that irks,A grievous fault: it isn’t his “Works”.
8004562898	Lord Byron may be one of the earliest known examples of a man who used his own self-created image to sell his works. Few writers have been able to make their own personality as famous as their writings Oscar Wilde comes to mind). This is reflected in the use of the word ‘Byronic’ to describe a particular mode of behaviour. A few writers have had their names used as a verb, but this rarely tells us anything about the writer themselves. ‘Shakespearian’ refers to the Bard’s style of writing; ‘Dickensian’ is more often associated with a particular atmosphere. ‘Orwellian’ is a term used to describe a political situation. ‘Byronic’ describes a personality type that people imagine was Byron’s. We see it even in the official portraits of Byron, which portray him as handsome, romantic, melancholic and a little exotic. However, what is the Byronic personality?The Byronic hero is a womaniser, but one who tires of women. Sometimes he passionately loves one woman only, but this generally ends tragically. He travels around different climes, especially exotic ones, but he is always lonely and melancholy. He loves deeply, and hates passionately. He is a sybarite, but capable of heroism and courage when needed. He has certain values of his own, but they are not those of conventional morality. He hates kings and conventional Christianity, though he is often an aristocrat or royal and believes in a god.Was this Byron? I suspect the actual Byron was not quite the idealised figure that he liked to portray. Nonetheless, Byron does seem to have lived to some of those ideals. He had enough and commitment to freedom to die romantically while fighting for Greek independence, just as his heroes occasionally wage war for idealistic reasons. Nonetheless, Byron was an aristocrat. For all his talk of liberty, he wrote about titled people such as himself. He was unenthusiastic about popular literature. While Byron sneered at poets such as Southey, Coleridge and Wordsworth who became more conservative with age, it is possible that he would have followed the same trajectory. Later works are more cynical. Byron’s role model in later years was Alexander Pope, a surprisingly formal poet with a rigid sense of metre, and an archconservative in his day.Then there is Byron’s attitude towards women. This seemed to concur with the image of Byron as a devil around the ladies. Mad, bad and dangerous to know, as one lover dubbed him. He is said to have committed paedophilia, rape and incest (with his half-sister). However, like many philanderers, Byron did not like women very much. He often sneers at them in his poetry. He especially loathes intellectual women.I imagine that men such as Byron become misogynistic precisely because they have slept with so many women. They have stirred up the feelings of so many women who now feel that they have a claim on the man that he becomes suffocated by their demands, and ends up hating them for the affections for which he was responsible.If the Byronic hero is often melancholic, this may be why. A life of indulgent pleasure and unlimited sex will begin to pall, especially when it comes with the responsibility of having hurt the women with whom he had affairs. This dominates Byron’s poetry. Childe Harold sets out on his pilgrimage because he is sated with lust and has nothing meaningful with which to fill his days. That Byron kept returning to this poem to add another canto indicates that it had some significance for him. While ‘Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage’ was popular in its day, I find it one of Byron’s least enjoyable, a shapeless travelogue that never gives its hero a chance to do anything interesting.‘Manfred’ is a far more interesting work. It has something of the abstract nature of the worst works of Shelley and Blake, but is far easier to follow. We might see the story as an anti-Faust tale. Manfred wants the opposite of Faust. He is not a young man seeking knowledge and gain, but a man who is tired of knowledge and gain, and is now seeking oblivion. He does not want knowledge, but forgetfulness; does not want longevity but death. When Manfred calls the spirits, it is so that they can end his life rather than to gain more time. Like the Dr Faustus of Marlowe’s play, he ignores the warnings of a Christian old man, but when a devilish figure comes to claim him, he does not submit but simply dismisses the devil, in contrast to Faustus.Underlying the dramatic work is an unnamed crime. Manfred is mourning the loss of his beloved Astarte, but when he calls up her spirit and begs her forgiveness, she does not grant it to him. But what is the unnamed crime or wicked act that Manfred inflicted on Astarte? Byron does not tell us, but there is one notable clue. The work was written around the time that his incestuous relationship with his half-sister ended.In a longer drama Sardanapalus, Byron again explores the theme of pleasure-seeking versus accepting one’s public responsibilities. The titular king lives only for pleasure and this destroys him just as surely as if he engaged in endless fighting with other countries. His people turn against him. In Byronic fashion, Sardanapalus is courageous in his own defence, but doomed to defeat. Yet Byron has a sneaking sympathy with the king’s Epicurean lifestyle. Why does it have to be wrong to promote the pleasure of his subjects rather than seeing them die in wars? There is a twinge of guilt here when Sardanapalus confronts his neglected wife. Byron may be remembering his own ex-wife, and how that marriage failed.Many of the poems here dwell on exoticism. Typical of this style are ‘The Giaour’, ‘The Bride of Abydos’, ‘The Corsair’, ‘Lara’ and ‘The Siege of Corinth’. The poems typically have a courageous and morally compromised hero who is separated from a lost love, and seeking revenge. Often, he is fighting Muslims except in the latter poem where he is shamefully siding with them. Byron was opposed to Turkey’s control of Greece, but I imagine he was only Islamophobic as a man raised in Christianity who opposes an enemy he hardly ever saw. The Muslim enemy is more of a colourful enemy to make his poems romantic, though of course this choice of villain seems problematic to us today.As I stated, Byron promoted his own special persona as part of his public image, and this was used to sell his poems. However, it is not the only reason why Byron was successful. His poetry is among the most accessible verse in the Romantic era, even despite the length of many of his works. Think of the other Romantics. Blake and Shelley have some sublime moments, but many of their longer works are just as hard to read without footnotes as anything by T S Eliot or Ezra Pound. Keats wrote some brilliant shorter works, but his longest poems are also hard to digest. Burns wrote in dialect that is sometimes hard to follow. Wordsworth began life with verse that was as clear and crystalline as the lakes around which he lived, but in old age the poems acquired an off-putting gloss that made them harder to enjoy.Coleridge is easier to follow admittedly. John Clare too is a poet that can be reached by all readers, but many find his style to be tonally flat – he is awed by nature and sometimes depressed, but lacks the emotional excesses of the other Romantics.By contrast, Byron’s poems are full of colour and adventure. He rarely delves into off-putting abstractions. He is not above milking the emotions of his readers. He also captured the zeitgeist of his time. The Byronic hero and Goethe’s Werther appealed to generations of romantic self-pitying men who wanted to see their melancholy mood swings made to seem like something greater and more significant than they were. Nowadays, we are too cynical to engage with this aspect of Byron. As C S Lewis remarked, the Byronic romantic types were "submerged in self-pity for imaginary distresses" for whom "five minutes' genuine toothache would reveal [their] romantic sorrows for the nonsense they were".Nonetheless, Byron is still a startlingly great read today. Here are strong emotions mingled with escapist adventure stories. Sometimes there is dry wit. Byron was also a master of metre and rhythm. In an age when some poems read more like exaggerated prose, Byron made full use of verse and rhyme without ever seeming tedious or mechanical. This type of poem requires far more effort and imagination than the freeform versification peddled out today.
7539506185	Kocham cb ByronNie spodziewałam się, że kiedykolwiek będę czytać tak dla przyjemności tomik poezji! A jednak!Bardzo poruszające, ciekawe obrazowanie i różna tematyka? Od wierszy o miłości po epitafium na grobie ukochanego psa. Super totalnie super… ❤️‍🔥
2332260906	"Dicen que la esperanza es felicidad;pero el amor genuino debe apreciar el pasado, y la memoria despierta los pensamientos que bendicen: fueron los primeros en surgir y los últimos en desaparecer.""Si ese pecho ante ti quedase desnudo, donde tu cabeza tan frecuente descansó.Mientras ese plácido sueño te invadía que nunca puedas volver a conocerlo." "Aunque la noche fue hecha para amar, u el día regresa demasiado pronto,aún así, ya no vagaremos másbajo la luz de la luna."Lord Byron, uno de mis poetas favoritos. Un poeta romántico, sarcástico y con una agitada vida llena de amoríos y melancolía. Cada poema evoca a un sin fin de sentimientos y paisajes con historias que resuenan en nuestra mente incluso después de tiempo de haberlos leído. Esta selección y traducción de José María Martín Triana es buena para conocer aquellos versos que llevaron a la fama a Byron y cuenta con un excelente prólogo de Douglas Dunn.
651937412	really nice in places bit boring in others .. or maybe i didt have the patiance to fully apprecaite what he w writing ...a few of my favourite bits in it ... If I should meet thee After long years, How should I greet thee?-- With silence and tears.In the desert a fountain is springing,In the wide waste there still is a tree,And a bird in the solitude singing,Which speaks to my spirit of thee.
839624178	Byron is my poet for 2014. He seems to be really good, but I just read a 1000 line satire of a bunch of critics that hated his first book of poetry. I guess you had to be there.It really was good--lots of ballads; the stories would recur in my brain on runs, swims or bikes. It's kind of nice to read poetry out loud.I was reading a poem to sister Sarah, and we have a new phrase (after going for a long walk), "My dogs are harking!"
399363134	I'm an unashamed Byronista. That said, there are parts of Don Juan which border on doggerel. I wonder whether Byron did this intentionally to display his contempt for his 'fan club.' The Dedication is, for me, the highlight. The shorter, more personal poems hit the spot for me
93639652	few men of letters in my opinion could stand in his shadow,his use of queens English,mixed with his own more modern along with his passions are remarkable.I learned if nothing more how rich and passionate the English language can be in poetry.
334585679	This actually isn't the book of Byron's poems that I read, but it's the closest that I could find on Goodreads...
3584652882	byron my dude
2708291705	i'm giving the three stars because of some selected poems i liked and not the whole book. Lord Byron is quite an interesting poet. I would suggest you check some of his poems out.
193703133	The roots of modern fantasy can be found (in part) in these pages. Great stuff and I am glad that I was belatedly exposed to it.
861434136	As with most collections of poems, some are excellent and enjoyed thoroughly, while others can be appreciated for the author's dedication to writing, yet are not necessarily enjoyed.
630186717	The first poems in English I read in my life. I was a highschool student at the time and received the book as a present from my family.
1780510376	A bit sappy and always full of pathos, Byron's poetry is still masterful and inspiring.
6062216566	A man that needed to control his ding-dong but instead wrote this.
48740964	I remember enjoying this one back in high school (and I wasn't "goth", I swear):http://www.poetryfoundation.org/archi...
2827462533	An old master, maybe the romantic icon hanging in white chapels of our arteries. To the modern ear, a little bit stocky, but the messages transcendental. And the metrum, a sound of that golden age.
199252303	None better with a pen.
6240989674	I believe the only proper way I could honour Byron's poetry, and the feeling his poems evoke within me, is to make a comparison to my love for music and what I felt at a young age upon discovering artists like The Cure or Nick Drake. These two artists, for me, answered those universal questions a naive, curious, and generally misunderstood youth could possibly have. As a young-adult now, finding my place in the real-world, still questioning myself & the motives of those around me, what I want out of life, still dealing with those leftover "pangs", etc etc. Byron covers all of these topics (along with many other philosophical questions) with immense beauty & understanding, I could use many other lines for an example, but I will settle with a brilliant line on the broken heart from "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage": "Even as a broken mirror, which the glassIn every fragment multiplies; and makesA thousand images of one that was,The same, and still the more, the more it breaks;And thus the heart will do which not forsakes,Living in shattered guise, and still, and cold,And bloodless, with its sleepless sorrow aches,Yet withers on till all without is old,Showing no visible sign, for such things are untold."Lord Byron's poetry evokes in me an absolute sense of freedom unlike anything I've felt in art before, and the fear I feel of living idly, and wasting away: "Self-exiled Harold wanders forth again, With nought of hope left, but with less of gloom; The very knowledge that he lived in vain, That all was over on this side the tomb, Had made Despair a smilingness assume."We are all able to live vicariously through his stunning writings on nature, to his exotic travels in the East through Turkey, Greece, Albania, and Napoleonic war-torn Europe. The 4 Canto's of Childe Harold were unlike any other poems written at that time, even now, not a soul has properly replicated the genius of Childe Harold. This is only scratching the surface, I have not even made a passing mention to the historical, and anti-war epochs like "The Siege of Corinth", "The Prisoner of Chillon", "Mazeppa", and of course, the phenomenal play "Sardanapalus". What about the Eastern vampire tragedies like "The Giaour"? or the exciting swashbuckling tragedies such as "The Bride of Abydos" and my personal favourite, "The Corsair"?Wait! I did not mention the hilarious dramas of MANFRED, and Beppo!You get the point, I feel that I have stumbled across something incredible while reading this book, Byron truly speaks to me, he is by far my favourite poet, this collection has changed the way I think about many things, I've taken more time to appreciate the little things in life, mostly nature, the best thing of all... Byron has made his way right up next to Monte Cristo for me... He was as much of a genius as he was a scoundrel.I will end off with a beautiful passage from one of his last ever poems, "On This Day I Complete My Thirty-Sixth Year" before dying of fever in Missolonghi, Greece: "'T is time this heart should be unmoved,Since others it hath ceased to move:Yet, though I cannot be beloved,Still let me love!My days are in the yellow leaf;The flowers and fruits of Love are gone;The worm, the canker, and the griefAre mine alone!The fire that on my bosom preysIs lone as some Volcanic isle;No torch is kindled at its blaze—A funeral pile.The hope, the fear, the jealous care,The exalted portion of the painAnd power of love, I cannot share,But wear the chain."
8119874933	River, that rollest by the ancient walls,Where dwells the Lady of my love, when sheWalks by thy brink, and there perchance recallsA faint and fleeting memory of me:What if thy deep and ample stream should beA mirror of my heart, where she may readThe thousand thoughts I now betray to thee,Wild as thy wave, and headlong as thy speed!What do I say a mirror of my heart?Are not thy waters sweeping, dark, and strong?Such as my feelings were and are, thou art;And such as thou art were my passions long.Time may have somewhat tamed them, not for everThou overflow’st thy banks, and not for ayeThy bosom overboils, congenial river!Thy floods subside, and mine have sunk away:But left long wrecks behind, and now again,Borne in our old unchanged career, we move:Thou tendest wildly onwards to the main,And I to loving one I should not love.The current I behold will sweep beneathHer native walls, and murmur at her feet;Her eyes will look on thee, when she shall breatheThe twilight air, unharmed by summer’s heat.She will look on thee, I have looked on thee,Full of that thought: and, from that moment, ne’erThy waters could I dream of, name, or see,Without the inseparable sigh for her!Her bright eyes will be imaged in thy stream,Yes! they will meet the wave I gaze on now:Mine cannot witness, even in a dream,That happy wave repass me in its flow!The wave that bears my tears returns no more:Will she return by whom that wave shall sweep?Both tread thy banks, both wander on thy shore,I by thy source, she by the dark-blue deep.But that which keepeth us apart is notDistance, nor depth of wave, nor space of earth,But the distraction of a various lot,As various as the climates of our birth.A stranger loves the Lady of the land;Born far beyond the mountains, but his bloodIs all meridian, as if never fannedBy the black wind that chills the polar flood.My blood is all meridian; were it notI had not left my clime, nor should I be,In spite of tortures, ne’er to be forgotA slave again of love, at least of thee.‘Tis vain to struggle let me perish youngLive as I lived, and love as I have loved;To dust if I return, from dust I sprung,And then, at least, my heart can ne’er be moved.
3492485156	"Out upon time! who forever will leave / but enough of the past for the future to grieve. " (The Seige of Corinth, ll. 456-57)George Gordon, better known as Lord Byron, writes almost exclusively about the decay of all things--of love both romantic and platonic, of the power in nations, of the splendor in artworks, of our own decay within and the decay of cities without, of the poet in his popularity, of ambition, of glory, et al. This yen for an idealized past is at the bloody heart of what it means to be romantic, what it meant to be poetic two centuries ago. "To meditate amongst decay and stand a ruin amidst ruins..." (Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, Canto IV, ll. 216-18)Yet for all that loftiness of heart, if you've read one of Byron's works, you've read many, and, like many other celebrities past and present, literary or otherwise, Byron's tumultuous, infamous life is often far more fascinating and dynamic than his work. His poems and fictions, though sententious and well written, are too frequently fixated on an exaltation of a bygone, "Byronic" era. Though this Byronism is not without merit, it doesn't always capture the vast scope of love and life in the way his more forthcoming notes and missives can. "May I add a few words on the subject on which all men are supposed to be fluent and none agreeable--self?" (notes to The Corsair, pg. 249)But this selection of poems is not without pleasure for the reader. Byron himself is a firecracker the likes of which I've only seen in one other contemporary: Oscar Wilde. Though this collection is much too long and far too repetitive, each piece is still enjoyable and illuminating. It may have been collected only for fanatics and scholars (is there even a distinction between the two?), but I can see myself returning to this for a fun vacation read.
3697950791	This book is about some selected poems from Lord Byron, as the title of it subtly hints at.I'm just going to give my very short opinion on this book as a whole. As a whole I liked it. This was my first step into reading poetry and it's a step I don't regret taking. Some poems were way too long for me though which dragged this book down. What I want from a poem is that it never exceeds 5 pages at the very most, but this book has poems that go on for 10-15+ pages. That just isn't for me. My favorite poem that I read here was "My Boat Is on The Shore". I just really enjoyed how it flowed so well into each other and I could just imagine an old fisherman writing this on a misty dock with a lighthouse behind his back. It didn't get written that way, but one can dream.So yeah, poetry. I'll probably read more of it at a later date. But if I do, it'll be something more modern.
6292993650	"sólo con la muerte evitar puedo tu aversión.""Vosotros sois los tontos, yo no, pues me entretuvecon un hondo pensamiento, y con ojos enternecidos,en esa homilía natural del viejo enterrador,en la que había oscuridad y fama:la gloria y la nada de un nombre.""¡indigna humanidad!, para ti¡indiferente debiera ser la sonrisao el ceño de la belleza!...La tierra de la muerte honorablees ésta""La ambición era mi ídolo, que se rompióante los altares del dolor y del placer;""El tirano del Quersonesoera el amigo mejor y más valiente de la libertad:¡ese tirano era Micíades!¡Oh, si la hora presente dieraotro déspota de esa especie!Cadenas como las suyas sin duda nos unirían."
6681862245	The book is a collection of poems penned by Lord Byron. Christopher Ricks is the editor for the series and does a good job. I bought this book on a whim in a small indie bookstore in Reedsburg, Wisconsin.George Gordon Byron became head of the Barony when he was ten. There isn't much to say about his life besides commenting on how short it was. Lord Byron lived a flamboyant and exuberant life.Each poem has a running commentary by Lord Byron. The commentary clarifies the references he makes in the poems. I don't know what they didn't include in the book. I am not an expert on Lord Byron and his poetry. The book contains the poem that made him a household name, though. It's called Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.I enjoyed the book. Thanks for reading my review, and see you next time.
5412228469	This 'Selected Poems of Lord Byron' Is primarily made up of his epic " Don Juan ". Don Juan is a masterful work that only by reason of death of Lord Byron, it is not perhaps 100 cantos long, rather it is a humble 16 cantos, spanning the adventures of the young Don Juan who is, by good fortune elevated from a terrible situation to one of grace. I can only wonder what incredible things Don Juan would achieve if Byron had lived to tell us. But this selection is not limited to Don Juan, but also has a handful of more traditional poems, some tales, as well as two brilliant satires being "English Bards and Scotch Reviewers" and "The Vision of Judgement" which I recommend one read if at all possible as the humor and wit, and well constructed barbs in the former are certainly worth the read.
7575963257	This was my first time dipping my toes into the work of a poet, not an anthology, and I think Byron was the best choice.I think I had an encounter with the Sublime, and it happened after I had finished reading an excerpt from Byron’s closet drama, Manfred. But it was not the awe-inspiring sublime, the kind that makes you break into tears (that happened to me, shortly after I had finished reading Werther). Rather, the kind of Sublime I experienced with Byron was like the sowing of seeds, like a slow epiphany, his poetic genius in full bloom for me to witness for the first time.I will never forget that. I suspect that, the more I read of Byron’s poetry, the more likely he is to become my favorite poet.
2397801362	I should start by stating that the rating is for the edition and not the content itself, being as it is a very thorough selection of major works by Byron that pretty much encompasses his poetry 'career'.Now, as for the poems themselves, they're not exactly my cup of tea, being decisively British in theme and execution (here again I have to commend the extensive notes that cover all the obscure references, latinisms and archaic words) but the mastery of medium [poetry] and engrossing narrative make it an invaluable book to digest and a window to a whole different worldview than our current one– even if I spent almost two years reading it! (while obviously reading other stuff too).
4454554325	In this collection of 54 poems by one of my TOP 3 favourite poets Lord Byron (1788-1824), I have narrowed my favourites to top 13!• A Fragment • To Caroline • Maid of Athens, ere we part• Lines to a Lady Weeping • Remember Thee! Remember Thee!• She Walks In Beauty• Stanzas for Music • The Destruction of Sennacherib• When we two parted • Darkness• So, we’ll go no more a roving • The Isles of Greece• On This Day I Complete My Thirty-Sixth Year
4686550877	5 ★This anthology is not only a testament to Byron's genius but also an invitation to reflect on the timeless nature of his themes. It's a captivating collection that showcases the depth and brilliance of one of the Romantic era's most iconic poets. Byron's mastery of language is evident in every poem, as he deftly explores themes of love, longing, and the complexities of human emotion. His vivid imagery and passionate expression transported me into a world of beauty and melancholy.
5514084662	I struggled to get through this. This was my first exposure to Lord Byron and I was not impressed. I would take Coleridge or Wordsworth in a heartbeat.I kept going to see if they got better, and they did. They saved the best for last, with selected cantos from "Don Juan", which was really the only ones worth reading. Do yourself a favor and skip to that one and ignore the rest, or find a different selection of his poems.
3036461665	I thought that the poems were well thought and we clear to the reader. It brought a sense of connection to the book with every story that he tells. And I like how he connects his poems with animals and with other people and then tells a story about it. Overall he is a great poet and I would like to read more from him.
3676829965	The selections of "Don Juan" in this book do not really follow much of the narrative of the poem making it hard to follow. Otherwise, well, it's bloody Byron so you're guaranteed fun and clever word craft.
4547261134	اگرچه من تا حالا چندان چیزی از ادبیات رمانتیک مطالعه نکرده بودم، اما میتونم بگم قطعه ای که از دون ژوان انتخاب و ترجمه شده بود عالی بود. قطعه جائور هم همانطور که خود بایرون گفته حال و هوای قصه های هزار و یک شب رو داشت و خیلی خوب بود.
5929495757	Es el peor libro que he leído en todo el año y quizás el peor poemario que he leído en mi vida. Es una poesía horrenda, vacía, que no transmite una misera mierda. Lo he terminado por condescendencia y porque se trataba de un libro de corto tamaño. No lo recomiendo en absoluto.
5367146117	Sus primeras hojas hicieron que valiera totalmente la pena por qué hubo de hecho un poema que me marco en el alma como si lo que a mí pasó lo hubiera plasmado Byron y eso me... desconsierta por qué la diferencia de años desde que lo escribo a la actualidad. El dolor no es desconocido de los años.
