1972664	ah! and there you are, my perfect little novel! it has been some time since last we've embraced. come, let us reacquaint ourselves. but what is that you say, and so modestly? what is so perfect about you? my sweet darling, don't be so shy! you are indeed a wondrous creation. here, let me count the ways...1. your mystery is timeless. three schoolgirls and one schoolmistress disappear on Valentine's Day afternoon, in 1900, in australia, at the mysterious Hanging Rock. where did they go? did Nature take them, as revenge for all the injustices done against her? or perhaps she simply saw four enchanted individuals who belonged to her and not to the worldly world that they seemed to float above? upon their disappearance, a sad and tragic series of events unfolds and broadens, and so the mystery becomes larger... a pattern of sorts is created; many questions rise to the surface of a once-placid community. how do our actions impact others? how does a tragedy reverberate and affect all those connected, how does it resonate in others and bring forth emotions and thoughts and actions that they never knew could exist? the mystery at the heart of this novel is like a stone tossed in a lake: the mystery drops into the water, past the surface, not to be seen again... but the water ripples outward, concentric circles opening wider and wider, that reach so much further beyond that initial impact, that initial drop into the unknown. 2. your prose is lovely. not a single word is out of place. so artful yet never overly mannered, so charming yet never coy or affected, so dry yet never cold-blooded. you manage to be both dreamy and precise. your points are made with nuance and subtlety. you do not hammer away relentlessly but are instead content to murmur your sharp but rather ambiguous comments, all the better for your audience to contemplate them at leisure. you say more in your trim 213 pages than many novels that clock in at over twice your length.3. your narrative... a jewel box, so compact, and full of intriguing things. and even better, it is a magic box: its interior is larger than its exterior! in just a few pages, here and there, it outlines the lives and futures of a half-dozen characters, in a way that is clear and meaningful and real and often surprisingly ironic. truth be told, your story is an often cruel one, with little or no hope for several of its characters - and yet you note these twists and turns with the lightest of touches. this light touch does not reduce the stories to anecdote, but instead allows these lives, these deaths, these tragically missed opportunities and these happy endings to evoke a fable's simplicity. 4. your characters are only briefly (but efficiently) characterized, and yet they are indelible. here is the boy who is courageous and idealistic and who lives above the world, and who rescued the wrong girl - or at least the wrong girl for him. here is the girl who loved the world around her so much that she could not leave it, and so was rescued, and who then found that the love of her life - that brave rescuer - was not for her. here is the loyal friend, rooted in the physical, rough and shy, an ideal companion for a wistful idealist, a secret and almost unrecognized hero, one who is rewarded beyond his wildest imaginings. here is the tragic sister, a rebel, an artist, an orphan, alone in the world, roughly handled emotionally and physically, yet loved and cared for - but (alas) unknowingly, a wilting flower destined for a flowerbed. and there is our awful villain, Mrs. Appleyard the Headmistress, dour and dreadful and rather grand, a monster who comes undone.5. you leave me with that intriguing, unnerving feeling of Wanting To Know More. it is a wonderful thing, and there is so much to consider. most of all: why did those girls and their schoolmarm disappear? you throw out a bold red herring in your varied descriptions of nature being trampled underfoot by clumsy, unknowing humans. perhaps it is Nature's Revenge, you seem to suggest. upon a closer reading, you offer a far more ambiguous yet provocative interpretation, one based upon the nature of those who disappeared: they were not of this world, in spirit or in deed. with this reading, their disappearance becomes less of a tragedy and more of an epiphany... the girls and their mistress have moved beyond us all and our petty concerns; their lives were spent reaching beyond this mortal coil, and so... perhaps they have escaped it, and entered a new realm, a higher plane. but, in the end, i do not believe the mystery itself is the point of your story. i think that the tale of Picnic at Hanging Rock is less about what has happened and more about what does it all mean... is there a greater implication, a pattern even, to all of our little actions and to all of our little lives, one that exists beyond us, one that connects us to each other and to a world beyond?here, in your own lovely words, is where i found the true purpose behind your strange, thoughtful tale:"Peering down between the boulders Irma could see the glint of water and tiny figures coming and going through drifts of rosy smoke, or mist. 'Whatever can those people be doing down there like a lot of ants?' Marion looked out over her shoulder. 'A surprising number of human beings are without purpose. Although it's probable, of course, that they are performing some necessary function unknown to themselves.' Irma was in no mood for one of Marion's lectures. The ants and their business were dismissed without further comment. Although Irma was aware, for a little while, of a rather curious sound coming up from the plain. Like the beating of far-off drums."oh, the glorious mystery of it all! but, a person may ask, what does it all truly mean? what is the exact point, how does this all add up, what specific message are we supposed to glean? well never fear, you charming perfect book... i am not one to kiss and tell! your secrets shall remain safe with me.
2228479175	On a summer's day in 1900 the students at Appleyard College for Young Ladies decided to go on a picnic at Hanging Rock. Not everyone returned to the college. I was definitely not drinking the Kool Aid on this one. I am perhaps in the minority here, but I found this book to be B-O-R-I-N-G. The girls go missing early on and the story just dragged. Were there metaphysical events going on? Did they get sucked into the rock? Was there a criminal element? What happened? Also, what about the good characters being good looking and fit and the bad characters being overweight and ugly? It has happened before in literature, but it is offensive to a degree. Sad to see this was written by a woman. Also, did I say I was bored? The girls went missing early on and things just went on and on and on like the EverReady bunny. I kept thinking it was going to get better. Hoping it would be something like “The Ruins” but sadly, it didn’t. I don’t mind that the Author never told us what happened to the girls. That is one thing that I liked. But there seemed to be a lot of other things going on in the book that dulled down the story.I think it is safe to say that this was not the book for me. It is very rare for me to give a rating lower than a 3 but I just had difficulty getting into this book. I finished it because I wanted to complete a challenge but overall - I just wasn't interested. I know I am in the minority on this one, most have given it much higher reviews but it was a struggle for me.See more of my reviews at www.openbookpost.com
1894324771	Australia is a harsh, unforgiving land where the seasons are inverted from what is usually experienced by the world at large, the flora and fauna belong to an evolutionary niche not seen elsewhere and the original settlers are the descendants of deported convicts. Yet over this, an English-ness has been imposed: the carefully cultivated gardens, the finely turned out ladies and gentlemen, the afternoon teas and the elevenses. This contrast often gives rise to a tension between man and nature which has been explored by countless writers and filmmakers. This novel by Joan Lindsay is an outstanding example of one such exploration.Hanging Rock is a natural volcanic rock formation in Australia near Melbourne. As the story starts, a group of young girls, boarders at Mrs. Appleyard's College for Young Ladies, is excitedly starting for their annual picnic near it, on February 14, St. Valentine's Day. There is Miranda, beautiful like a Botticelli painting; Irma Leopold, the pretty heiress; Marion Quade, top academic performer; Edith Horton, the college dunce and many others. They are chaperoned by the young and impressionable Mademoiselle Dianne de Poitiers, the French mistress and the mathematics mistress Greta McCraw who lives virtually in a world of equations. They are driven to the spot by Ben Hussey, the owner of the town's livery stables, in his trap. The only student left behind is Sara Waybourne, the youngest boarder as a punishment for not learning The Wreck of the Hesperus by heart.The picnic goes well until teatime, when Miranda, Irma and Marion decide to go closer to the Hanging Rock to properly examine it. Edith tags along. They are seen by the young Hon. Michael Fitzhubert, visiting from England with his uncle and his coachman Albert Crundall. Fitzhubert, captivated by Miranda's beauty, follows them for a bit then turns back. That is the last anyone sees of them, however - because all except Edith, who rushes back in an attack of hysteria, disappear without a trace; as does the mathematics mistress. The mystery is never solved.The novel is the chronicle of the fallout from this event - how the lives of all the people connected with it, even the minor characters, are inextricably changed.-------------------------------At the outset, the author writes:Whether Picnic at Hanging Rock is fact or fiction, my readers must decide for themselves. As the fateful picnic took place in the year 1900, and all the characters who appear in this book are long since dead, it hardly seems important.This is the tone set right at the beginning - that of the "true story" - with quotes from letters and reports peppered throughout the narrative, and even footnotes in some places. In many places the writing becomes reportage; in others, it reads like an inexpert author trying to fictionalise historical characters and events. It is only when we realise that none of this happened that we come to appreciate what Joan Lindsay is trying to do - and we acknowledge her mastery of the medium.If whether something really happened "seems hardly important", what does it say about the nature of the "story"? Is truth important here, or is there a truth beyond the phenomenal world which we consider rock solid?As the story progresses, people's behaviour becomes increasingly eccentric. The college, a solid bastion of English respectability in the middle of wild Australia, slowly unravels - as does the redoubtable headmistress Appleyard. The tension between her and the orphan Sara (whom she subjects to mental torture mercilessly) is like a taut elastic band which is stretched and stretched until it breaks - with disastrous results. It is also to be noted that Sara idolises Miranda, who is almost a myth, an ethereal vision which fittingly disappears.But the real protagonist of the story is Hanging Rock, the volcanic formation which is millions and millions of years old, standing ominously tall above all the puny humans crawling around like ants at its base - ephemeral beings whose unimaginably tiny lifetimes it must have surely smiled at, mockingly....The plain below was just visible; infinitely vague and distant. Peering down between the boulders Irma could see the glint of water and tiny figures coming and going through drifts of rosy smoke, or mist. 'Whatever can those people be doing down there like a lot of ants?'Marion looked out over her shoulder. 'A surprising number of human beings are without purpose. Although it's probable, of course, that they are performing some necessary function unknown to themselves.'The elemental power of the Australian landscape here is what is drawing the girls out of their so very English cocoons. Throughout the narrative, this rough land calls out to us in a thousand tongues: through the hissing of snakes, the chirping of birds, the scurrying of lizards, the wind through the trees - and through the silent and impressive presence of Hanging Rock. It finally succeeds in drawing even the stolid Mrs. Appleyard out.And now, at last, after a lifetime of linoleum and asphalt and Axminster carpets, the heavy flat-footed woman trod the springing earth. Born fifty-seven years ago in a suburban wilderness of smoke-grimed bricks, she knew no more of nature than a scarecrow rigid on a broomstick above a field of waving corn. She who had lived so close to the little forest on the Bendigo Road had never felt the short wiry grass underfoot. Never walked between the straight shaggy stems of the stingybark trees. Never paused to savour the jubilant gustsof spring that carried the scent of wattle and eucalypt right into the front hall of the college. Nor sniffed with foreboding the blast of the north wind, laden in summer with the fine ash of mountain fires...Nature, in all her raw and pristine glory - nature, come to extract her price from civilisation.
5795871828	Peter Weir’s movie and that haunting theme music have stayed with me since the 1970s. I finally got to read what inspired this triumph in Australian cinematography. I stumbled upon a worn copy, a treasure from one of those delightful roadside libraries.This novel was all I expected, and wanted. I was tantalised by the mystery, atmosphere and loose ends.As a throwaway to her list of characters, Joan Lindsay wrote:Whether Picnic at Hanging Rock is fact or fiction, my readers must decide for themselves. As the fateful picnic took place in the year nineteen hundred, and all the characters who appear in this book are long since dead, it hardly seems important.Oh, what a brilliant tease!
4987365910	Maybe 4.5. This was such a strange book, but I think I loved it.
4642919765	"Many modern novels have a beginning, a muddle and an end". - Philip LarkinThis story is about a disappearance of three school girls and one governess while on a picnic at Hanging Rock. Reflecting on the Larkin quote, it starts well by creating a mysterious vanishing, then loses its way and focus by focusing on the relationships between people at the school, and finally returns to the core of the story at the end. The four stars had something as much to do with the Peter Weir movie I saw years ago as with the book itself. I enjoyed the novel, but might have been confused had it not been for the movie. A welcome closure for seventies movies goers?
2838224981	I didn't fall in love with this, but it was a quick, decent read. I liked the setting and, though it was written in the 1960s, I felt Lindsay did a great job of capturing an early 1900s feel. The characters and their mannerisms felt similar to E.M. Forster or Edith Wharton.It begins with the titular picnic-- Valentine's Day 1900, which in Australia means a lovely summer day, when the girls of Appleyard College for Young Ladies go for a relaxing picnic at Hanging Rock. By the time they are ready to head back to school in the afternoon, three of the girls and one school mistress have gone missing. Yet another girl, Edith, who also left with the missing girls, is found panicked and confused, with no memory of what has happened to her companions.The story is about the way this mystery affects the school, its headmistress, and the local community. The mystery of the missing girls has far-reaching consequences and touches many different people's lives, with one tragedy after another striking those surrounding it.I think the main thing preventing me from loving this was that the characters were forgettable. This prevented me from truly becoming immersed in the story and mystery, even while the setting was vivid and the mystery itself intriguing. Wondering what happened to these girls kept me turning pages, though. Was it murder? Was a teacher involved? Did they die from exposure or starvation? Could it have been supernatural? (view spoiler)[Guess we'll always wonder. (hide spoiler)]
7630250092	RATING BREAKDOWNCharacters: 3⭐️Setting: 4⭐️Plot: 4⭐️Themes: 4⭐️Emotional Impact: 3⭐️Personal Enjoyment: 4⭐️Total Rounded Average: 3.75⭐️This is a pretty digestible/bingeable little classic as it's short and gripping. I found the characters to be more plot device than focus, but that worked. The setting and plot are the pull. I loved the remote area of Australia at the turn of the century, and the missing women kept me turning pages. The themes of the story seem to center on reputation, manipulation, and class—it was all quite subtle and delicate, and that added to the sinister "something's not right but I can't put my finger on it" vibe. With no clear villains, it still manages to feel unsettling and sinister.It didn't have a big emotional impact, but I enjoyed it all the way through and am likely to remember it. I would recommend this to readers who don't pick up a lot of classics but would like to try one out. It's pretty accessible and interesting.
2066067418	Australian classic which I probably wouldn't have picked up other than I was short of an audio cd for the car. The added bonus to these Abc Australia productions, is the pan flute music that is borrowed from the movie version. It is pretty music that adds to the flavour of the time of the year 1900. The narrator was outstanding, Australian actress Jacqueline Mackenzie portrayed the Aussie flavour perfectly, her male voices were entertaining and real.The story of a group of girls never to be seen again, for me, lacked finality, but that what the story was all about. I noticed that just like The Harp in the South, this was another short classic.Historical fiction and I just don't gel, but I did like it enough.
3489696623	1,5. Se viene una opinión super impopular, pero allá vamos jajaja. Durante los últimos años han llegado a mí constantemente maravillosas críticas y opiniones sobre esta obra de Joan Lindsay y mis ganas de leerla iban cada vez a más. La decepción ha sido tal que la considero la peor lectura que he hecho este año.Estamos en 1900 y nos encontramos ante un grupo de jóvenes pertenecientes a un pijo colegio para "señoritas" llamado Appleyard. Un caluroso domingo, la horrible directora permitirá a las niñas, junto a dos profesoras, trasladarse hasta el Hanging Rock para realizar un picnic en plena naturaleza. Pero las cosas no saldrán bien, ya que una profesora y tres jóvenes no regresarán.La premisa de la historia me parece interesantísima y tanto si la historia hubiera girado todo el tiempo al misterio de Hanging Rock, como si hubiera servido de excusa para hablarnos de otras cosas y personajes en profundidad, me hubiera parecido bien. Pero ni una cosa ni la otra. El misterio siempre está ahí, pero realmente no se indaga. Simplemente la trama va saltando de un personaje a otro sin ninguna continuidad y sin permitirnos digerir nada de lo que nos cuenta.Los personajes no tienen ningún tipo de profundidad, no estamos ni cuatro páginas con uno cuando salta al siguiente. Y así, durante toda la novela. La joven Sara, probablemente el personaje más interesante de la novela, sale más por lo que hablan de ella otros personajes, que por ella misma. Realmente ningún personaje parece necesario para la historia. Hay historias que destacan más por su ambientación que por sus personajes, pero tampoco creo que esta obra sea redonda en ello. Veo el intento, pero no lo compro. La forma de contar la historia se me ha hecho aburrida, cansina y repetitiva. Parece que no sucede nada, y no solo a causa de que tienes la sensación de que pasan pocas cosas, sino que las pocas que ocurren son narradas rápidamente y sin interés. De hecho, hay cierta parte de la novela donde parece que va a estallar un enfrentamiento y con ello le va a dar algo de vidilla a la narración, pero no, es entonces cuando la autora escribe textualmente "Resulta innecesario elaborar un detallado informe de la entrevista que tuvo lugar". Cuando sentía que algo de lo que pasaba se iba a mostrar con algo de intensidad, nueva decepción. Me dieron ganas de tirar el libro.No pensaba ni por asomo que de esta novela acabaría teniendo una opinión tan hater, pero bueno, no todos los libros son para todo el mundo. Tengo la sensación de que si sabiendo el inicio, me hubieran contado el final, habría jurado que sería una novela que me encantaría. Sin embargo, el desarrollo ha sido tan pésimo y ha tenido tan poca sustancia, que se ha convertido en uno de los libros que más me ha costado terminar.
6734135200	This novel was more than I anticipated. The event that launched the story was the disappearance of three young women from Appleyard College along with a governess. The circumstances of the disappearance are eerie and hint of the supernatural, as mysterious disappearances do, but the details of the disappearance and the subsequent search are not really the focus of the book. The disappearance is what the book is “about,” but more incidental to the story in the way that, say, ripples in a pond are “about” the stone someone dropped in the water. The main focus of the book is on the ripples emanating from the disappearance, as those ripples move through and then out and away from people adjacent to the event. Initially there is involvement by the police and their interviews with the other students, the livery driver, other picnic goers, and the one student who left with the women but returned, mysteriously dazed. The ripples eventually reach others, causing great psychological distress, particularly for Mrs. Appleyard, Michael Fitzhubert, and Sara Waybourne who all have compelling narrative lines. Lindsay’s writing struck me as alike in tone and mood to Shirley Jackson, and I think I liked this novel for the same reasons I tend to like her writing. There is an element of the gothic in it, but unlike what I have read from Jackson, this story is grounded in a fabricated but realistic missing persons case with evidence, police interviews, and news reports. But behind the events, the book seems to be about time and memory and their destructive potential.In fact, when you start to look, clocks and time are everywhere in this book. Lindsay even wrote an autobiographical novel called Time Without Clocks, which strongly suggests that they meant something to her. The events of this book begin with two clocks (the carriage driver’s and a governess’s) that have both mysteriously stopped a 12:00 pm on the day of the disappearance. The disappearance, then, takes place in that subjective, narrative space of halted time, and there it remains, like the images of those young women forever frozen in memory, the last fleeting image of a white sleeve disappearing into the brush. The image of these young women (less so the governess, sadly) are halted as well, psychologically, permanently in the minds of people like Sara, Mrs. Appleyard, and Michael, not to be dislodged. Lindsay observes that … “There is no single instant on this spinning globe that is not, for millions of individuals, immeasurable by ordinary standards of time: a fragment of eternity forever unrelated to the calendar or the striking clock” (120)All of the characters in the book seem to have their own flash memories that they keep and in reflecting on those memories they grow to occupy time and become over-attributed with significance as totems of memory. Some of those memories are, in the moment they were formed, insignificant and do not warrant their significance or longevity. Kant says that time is part of the medium of pure intuition that we experience subjectively. There is no time that one can point to objectively. Its presence is only felt as the change in things that exist in space, ourselves included. But the images of these disappeared women are unchanging. The women are forever the same age, forever dressed as they were, their personalities forever as they were in the moment they were suddenly lost. They do not change with time or fade out and away but instead remain as persistent as an ache that cannot be soothed. I’m glad that this book caught my attention, even if it was for the superficial similarity in place names. Whereas this Hanging Rock is a volcanic monolith in Australia, the Hanging Rock that immediately came to mind for me is a state park in my home state of North Carolina. Totally unrelated.
4974203083	I absolutely loved reading this again (first read quite a while ago in high school). The book is definitely better without the missing chapter. I like the open ended mystery of it all. I loved the contrasts Lindsay sets up in the book, the different classes, the English style gardens alongside the natural bushland, the age of the rock formation in the millions of years compared to the youth of the students. The silliness of the education the girls are receiving (eg. memorising poetry) when they are heading to the bush with venomous snakes and poisonous ants! The women and girls still wearing corsets, stockings and gloves on a hot summer’s day. So much more. The latter events as the effects of the incident play out on the surrounding characters kept my interest right till the end. A great read. “Appleyard College was already, in the year nineteen hundred, an architectural anachronism in the Australian bush – a hopeless misfit in time and place”“Insulated from natural contacts with earth, air and sunlight, by corsets pressing on the solar plexus, by voluminous petticoats, cotton stockings and kid boots, the drowsy well-fed girls lounging in the shade were no more a part of their environment than figures in a photograph album, arbitrarily posed against a backcloth of cork rocks and cardboard trees.”“He reminded himself that he was in Australia now: Australia, where anything might happen”“Confronted by such monumental configurations of nature the human eye is woefully inadequate. Who can say how many or how few of its unfolding marvels are actually seen, selected and recorded by the four pairs of eyes now fixed in staring wonder at the Hanging Rock?”“In the noonday stillness all living creatures except man, who long ago renounced the god-given sense of balance between rest and action, had slowed down their normal pace.”
164206985	‘Picnic en Hanging Rock’, de la australiana Joan Lindsay, publicada a finales de los sesenta, se ha convertido en una obra de culto. En ella, la escritora nos presenta una peculiar novela de misterio, aunque no se rige estrictamente por los parámetros al uso de dicho género, una novela que atrapa al lector desde su principio. Mediante una inteligente estructura y dosificación de la intriga, la historia nos presenta la extraña desaparición de tres alumnas y una profesora, pertenecientes al prestigioso Colegio Appleyard, en un picnic celebrado en el día de San Valentín del año 1900.El lugar en el que tiene lugar el picnic se llama Hanging Rock, una zona boscosa y rocosa plagada de precipicios y escarpaduras. En un momento concreto de la excursión, cuatro alumnas deciden explorar en solitario los alrededores, pero solo una de ellas volverá con el resto del grupo. Por otra parte, la señora McGraw, profesora de matemáticas, que hasta hacía poco estaba con el grupo principal, también desaparece sin razón aparente.Resulta interesante la manera en que Joan Lindsay va desvelando los diferentes hechos, de forma paulatina, lo que obliga al lector a continuar leyendo hasta conocer el final. Pero la novela no se centra únicamente en lo acaecido en Hanging Rock. Es más interesante si cabe el cisma que se crea en el internado de Appleyard. Más allá del suspense, que lo hay, la autora logra plasmar una imaginativa lectura del postcolonialismo, en una Australia que todavía vive anquilosada bajo el Imperio Británico. De igual modo, cabe resaltar la distancia moral de los personajes, unos anclados en el pasado y en lo etéreo, y otros en el presente y en lo físico, pero todos ellos bajo un punto en común, el miedo de lo sucedido.Para el lector queda la pregunta de si lo acaecido se basa en hechos reales o ficticios, respuesta que la autora nunca desveló. Tal vez esto sea parte del éxito de la novela. Pero en todo caso, lo importante son los hechos que se plantean y cómo se expanden, más allá del misterio. Sin duda, ‘Picnic en Hanging Rock’ se trata de una excepcional novela.
2379141669	“As always, in matters of surpassing human interest, those who knew nothing whatever either at first or even second hand were the most emphatic in expressing their opinions; which are well known to have a way of turning into established facts overnight.”― Joan Lindsay, Picnic at Hanging RockSigh. Another one that so many people adored that I just did not enjoy all that much.SPOILERS THROUGHOUT:I did not love it.I only just read this book last year. I am including spoilers because I want to speak about the book as a whole including the ending.So..there were a few things that dampened my enjoyment of this. First off, for some reason, I'd heard of this book and always thought it was (completely) non fiction. The fact is, there was an introduction that tipped me off to what really happens and spoiled my enjoyment of the book because the whole premise, of coarse, is what happened to the girls. Also I saw some spoilers on here. I inadvertently read about an ending the writer had in mind. All that dampened my enjoyment of the book.So I thought this was going to be a story that was a bit more creepy with a genuine question mark about why the students vanished. From what I read, an answer was given by the writer but much later on. I read that answer, so the book immediately lost whatever fascination it held for me. That does not mean someone else will not enjoy it but I will say try not to read any reviews with spoilers, (and some do NOT say spoilers). Also do not read any introductions included unless you want to know a whole lot more about the story then you should know going in.Beyond even that though, I was not as involved as I would have liked to be. Certain aspects were dull and when the girls do vanish, I did not find it especially gripping but then again like I said I had more answers from introduction and spoilers.And there is alot that goes on back at the school. It was a tough book to read. I honestly did feel bored at certain moments. It was not a bad read but not one I am likely to pick up again.
15237426	I saw this movie on IFC some time back & was sucked into the screen completely. When I realized there was a book, I bought a copy from a store called Aussie Books so that I could have a nice clean copy. I started this book one night and stayed up through the wee hours of the morning to finish it. It was most excellent! Definitely recommended but with the caution that if you don't like things left hanging, you're not going to enjoy this book. Me, I'm a firm believer that there are (even in the fictional world) things that are just mysteries and should be left that way. To make a solution apparent to the reader might have cheapened this book...because while the disappearance of the girls and the math teacher at Hanging Rock was the focal point of the story, the real story was the consequences of the disappearance and the effects felt by many throughout the story.Now the actual story: On Valentine's Day, 1900, several of the girls who were boarders & students at Mrs. Appleyard's College for Young Ladies, accompanied by a few staff members, went for an outing at a local geological phenomenon called Hanging Rock. Three of the senior girls, Irma, Miranda and Marion, followed by another girl that no one really liked, Edith, received permission to explore the rock out of sight of the picnic grounds, where all of the rest of the girls & the staff were. They decided to climb the rocks, but something happened which sent Edith running down hysterical and panicked. A search was made of the area but none of the senior girls were found and the party realized that the mathematics teacher was missing as well. The driver of the buggy took everyone back to the school; the police were called and an investigation was made. A little later, a local man and his uncle's groom decided to go looking for the missing girls; they found Irma, battered and bruised, nails broken & dirty but otherwise okay, laying out on a rock ledge. She had no remembrance of any of the events, however. No other traces were ever found & the girls & the math teacher just vanished. That's the event; the rest of the book focuses on one this one event came to cause ripples just like those caused by dropping a rock in the middle of a pond and the ripples moving ever outward and getting larger.Don't even try to think about solving this one...the event may be nagging at you the entire time, but it is not really meant to be solved. The novel is really about events set into motion because of the girls' disappearances.Excellent; most highly recommended.
4369991934	125th book of 2021. 3.5. A slow-burner but wonderfully written. Haven't read much Australian lit so far, perhaps only Tim Winton (and a still unresolved desire to read Patrick White), so glad I made time for this. Not immediately my thing by the blurb with the whole missing-persons plot but Lindsay's prose made it worthwhile for me if anything else. The middle section of the novel tested my patience a little as its movement throughout is with such slow deliberation that it threatens to be boring. Generally I think that books about missing-persons bother me because once those people have gone missing, what does the rest of the book inevitably follow? Search parties. Thinking of the missing. The families. The general aftermath which is so common and expected that I go into them already disappointed by their banality. But, as I said, Lindsay's prose makes this a different experience. There's something dreamlike about her writing and the story itself has this almost mythical undercurrent, which perhaps comes from the setting of Australia itself, if I recall the sort of mythical power in Bruce Chatwin's The Songlines. Take, for a single line, this: 'Out at the Hanging Rock the long violet shadows were tracing their million-year-old pattern of summer evenings across its secret face.' It's a short novel so I recommend it. I can see why people other than myself would enjoy it far more. The ending leaves us in great ambiguity and I respect that. For me, and this was a conversation I had the other day, and they thought the same, ambiguous endings are far more powerful and unsettling in novels. A missing-persons, a whodunit, they fizzle out at the end with their own big reveals, solving the book and thus decapitating its chance of remaining in the reader's mind in one fell swoop. An unresolved book though? That lingers a little longer as the reader is forced to sit and wonder. So this book did make me sit and wonder, even if only briefly.
2274396483	The year is 1900, the girls at Appleyard College are all excited to be going for a day out to enjoy a picnic at Hanging Rock.After lunch , three of the senior boarders , Miranda, Irma and Marion decide to take a closer look at the rock , followed by Edith .In the blaze of the hot afternoon Australian sun , the girls climb higher and higher , until they disappear completely out of sight. They never return...This haunting tale published in 1967 is beautifully written by Joan Lindsay , who was born in Melbourne.She writes , whether this story is fact or fiction, the reader must decide for themselves.I loved the characters and the setting , and the rock itself is a big character in the story too.With a touch of the paranormal , it makes you think , what did happen to these girls and does the Hanging Rock possess magical powers
5871042963	"Nobody can be held responsible for the pranks of destiny.” "Whether Picnic at Hanging Rock is fact or fiction, my readers must decide for themselves. As the fateful picnic took place in the year 1900, and all the characters who appear in this book are long since dead, it hardly seems important." This book is not your typical crime novel or a straightforward "who done it." Instead, it presents a timeless mystery. It's a tale that keeps you guessing, and as the disappearances unfold, you'll find yourself questioning the boundaries of reality and the influence of destiny. The mystery itself remains open-ended, and that's part of what makes this story so memorable. It invites you to contemplate the unexplainable and leaves you pondering countless possibilities for how the girls could have vanished into thin air. But it also makes room for the effects of the disappearing on the surroundings, rather than solving the mystery, which is a much more interesting read from my point of view. What truly sets this book apart is Lindsay's masterful use of nuance and subtlety in her writing. Her prose is beautifully written without ever feeling overdone. Lindsay's ability to subtly transform the descriptions of her characters as the narrative unfolds is a testament to her storytelling prowess. It vividly illustrates how one unexplainable event can set off a 'butterfly effect' in the lives of those in the community, leaving no one untouched. The depiction of mass hysteria in the gymnasium was another highlight for me. Lindsay's prose was so well-crafted that I could feel the tension and confusion as if I were right there in that eerie, unsettling moment. Now, why did I give this book four stars instead of five? Well, the depiction of characters was a bit too on-the-nose at times. The good characters are portrayed as good-looking and fit, while the bad characters are overweight and ugly. While some of this bias can be attributed to the spirit of the time where the book is set, it does come across as rather obvious and stereotypical.
2478279318	En un prestigioso internado para señoritas de la alta sociedad en Australia, el 14 de febrero de 1900 un grupo de ellas salen para hacer un picinic en Hanging Rock, tres de estas niñas y una institutriz desaparecen misteriosamente y no vuelven a saber más de ellas.La trama gira en torno a saber si aparecen o no estas niñas, si es real o no los hechos que nos relata la escritora, (aunque esto no crea muy difícil de saber si en esta época ya hay periódicos e investigaciones, se sabría perfectamente si este internado existió y estas niñas de verdad desaparecieron, pero obviando esto...), y la vida en el internado, cómo este hecho afectará de manera negativa a las habitantes del colegio y alrededores.Lo más característico de la novela son las descripciones del paraje y el ambiente del colegio. Aunque la trama está bien, no acabé de encajar con ninguno de los personajes, y que cada uno de ellos tiene su propia historia, algunos de estos personajes son insufribles y lo más importante son los rumores y prejuicios de las sociedad de la época.Me esperaba más del libro, no sé si por la trama en sí o por el desarrollo de los personajes.
1405206444	This is the haunting tale of a well known Australian mystery. The author quickly states that this is an interpretation of events and that the facts of this story is largely unknown and the reader is left to make up their own mind. The story begins when a group of private college girls venture out on a school excursion on Valentine's Day 1900. Three girls and one school teacher disappear during a picnic at Hanging Rock in rural Victoria. This follows the aftermath of the event with some real life excerpts included to round out the story. The writing was engaging enough with lots of descriptions of the Australian bush and surrounds and depicts the time well, although I wasn't overly riveted, it described the happenings enough to satisfy my curiosity even though the mystery still remains predominantly unsolved.
1362884878	This book and its author Joan Lindsay are not very well known outside of Australia. But the novel is an absolute gem so everybody; add this to your TBR lists right now. The story is about a group of girls from a boarding school that go missing at a picnic at Hanging Rock. This novel became an instant classic because it fed into one of the deepest unspoken fears of colonial Australia- the creepy, dangerous and otherworldly nature of the Australian bush. A strong argument could be made that the novel is about the fear of retribution white settlers felt when they attempted to tame this harsh country. Hanging RockThe immediate impact of its soaring peaks induced a silence so impregnated with its powerful presence that even Edith was struck dumb. The plain below was just visible; infinitely vague and distant. Peering down between the boulders Irma could see the glint of water and tiny figures coming and going through drifts of rosy smoke, or mist. 'Whatever can those people be doing do there like a lot of ants?' This novel is beautifully atmospheric. The setting is not only beautifully rendered but the characters are well drawn and the time period is breathed into being.The Picnic The school decides to go on an outing to Hanging Rock Miranda was looking at her so strangely, almost as if she wasn't seeing her. When Edith repeated the question more loudly, she simply turned her back and began walking away up the rise, the other two following a little way behind. Well, hardly walking- sliding over the stones on their bare feet as if they were on a drawing-room carpet, Edith though, instead of those nasty old stones. 'Miranda,' she called again. 'Miranda!' In the breathless silence her voice seemed to belong to somebody else, a long way off, a harsh little croak fading out amongst the rocky walls. 'Come back, all of you! Don't go up there - come back!' She felt herself choking and tore at her frilled lace collar. 'Miranda!' The strangled cry came out as a whisper. To her horror all three girls were fast moving out of sight behind the monolith. 'Miranda! Come back!' She took a few unsteady steps towards the rise and saw the last of a white sleeve parting the bushes ahead.And the girls disappear. With no explanation and no witnesses. The mystery is an essential element to the plot, however, this is so much richer then a regular whodunit. It is in essence a period study and character analysis. The consequences of the disappearance are far reaching and the community spirals into hysteria. The delightful, lush prose, harrowing character development and the addition of victorian style romance subplots add to the deliciousness of this novel.And that is all I am going to say about it- except; Read, Read, Read.
7272740733	Somewhere between 3.5 and 4 stars - if this had been a long short story, I think it would be 5 stars. It does lag a bit in the middle, but overall, this was a wonderfully vibe-y book that suggested more than it confirmed. Finding out what the original ending would have been reminded me how valuable an editor is
5871822599	A fascinating open ended mystery. I really enjoyed this and wish JL had written more books in her lifetime.
7233773726	If Gene Wolfe wrote a book about the disappearance of students from an all-girls Victorian boarding school, it would be Picnic at Hanging Rock
2451856351	An Australian Enigma17 July 2018 Back around 1900, on Valentine’s day, a group of girls from a nearby boarding school just north of Melbourne went on a picnic to a nearby rock outcropping known as Hanging Rock. During the day three of the girls, and one of the teachers, decided to go and climb the rock to have a look around (remembering that these girls were wearing Victorian era clothing). The girls vanished without a trace, and the only one discovered could not remember a thing that had happened. This mystery has never been solved, and because of it Hanging Rock has since become quite a haunted place, and many Australians are still baffled as to what happened to the girls, and many theories continue to float around as to their fate. Except that it never happened. Well, the events as outlined in this book never happened, though there is some speculation that it may have been based on some events that had occurred much earlier (and Australian author Colleen McCulloch seems to believe there is some truth in the tale). Yet, despite the fact that the story is a work of fiction, many Australians are convinced that it is based on fact. The story is so haunting that not only has it become a part of our culture, but it has also become a part of our mythology. People simply cannot mention Hanging Rock without mentioning the picnic (well, at least I can’t). As for the place having a rather haunting vibe, I can tell that the place does have a mysterious feel about it, though the fact that a horse race is held there every Easter does suggest that people don’t actually fear the place. As I’ve mentioned, I been to Hanging Rock (it is located about fifty kilometres east north east from where I currently live) but only as a child – not having a car does make it particularly difficult to get there to actually have a look around, since it is located in the middle of a national park, and away from the numerous towns round about. The rock itself, as mentioned, is more of a volcanic outcropping, and having wandered around there it could be quite believable that people could disappear, particularly if they happened to fall down one of the sinkholes and broke their leg (and their mobile phone). Still, it isn’t as if it is located in an isolated place, yet considering when the story was set, a disappearance is a lot more likely in that case. As for the story, I’m not sure what to think of it. Honestly, it isn’t a mystery in the sense of a ‘who-dunit’ namely because we are never given any real answer at the end. In fact, as the book moves on it seems to be more about some unnamed and unspoken curse, not so much upon the rock, but upon the house where the school is located. Maybe it is more about a series of unfortunate events that end up leaving the Headmistress of the school, Ms Appleby, a broken and dejected woman. Well, she was a pretty harsh head-mistress, but nothing to the extent that I would say that she is a villain. Yeah, there are tragic elements about the book, but everything seems to be rather unfortunate. Well, okay, she is somewhat of a tyrant, doing her best to prevent any discussion of the events that have been taking place. In a way she set the school up from her own wealth, and had done a pretty good job at it until the three girls disappeared. Honestly, for a private school in those days, that would be a death knell. Actually, it would probably absolutely shake even some of the most prestigious schools out there today, particularly the smaller ones. In a sense, what we are watching is what Appleby had built collapsing around her, yet she is no different to what I would expect from the head-mistress of a school, particularly a private school – discipline is very important, especially considering the money that people pay to send their kids to these types of schools. Yet in the end, the actual story simply drifts into the mist and nobody ever really speaks about Ms Appleby, or even about the school. People don’t realise that the book is probably more about the slow spiral into madness of the main character, and instead think more about the girls who went missing, and what could have possibly happened to them. In fact, people seem to be so caught up in the event at Hanging Rock that they don’t realise that it is actually the catalyst for a completely different story, a story of a woman who goes from riches to rags.
2282626054	It was a cloudless summer day in the year nineteen hundred. Everyone at Appleyard College for Young Ladies agreed it was just right for a picnic at Hanging Rock. After lunch, a group of three girls climbed into the blaze of the afternoon sun, pressing on through the scrub into the shadows of Hanging Rock. Further, higher, until at last they disappeared. They never returned... So reads the blurb on the back of the book. How I wish that was all I had read of The Picnic At Hanging Rock by Joan Lindsay. My review is not in line with popular opinion as despite my best efforts I simply didn't click with this book. Unlike others who enjoyed the mystery and found the descriptions exquisite and elegant, I found it boring. True the descriptions were vivid but it seems my capacity to enjoy endless descriptions was limited. On the whole I did not form an attachment to any of the characters although I did soften towards Albert the coachman and the friendship which developed between he and Michael Fitzhubert. Because of this lack of attachment at no stage did I feel any sense of urgency to unravel the mystery of what happened to the missing girls. Which is kind of fortunate as it turns out, because it was left open ended, allowing interested readers to speculate. Being a short novel (<200 pages) I thought I'd zoom through it in a day or so and be onto something of my own choosing in no time.* Mistakenly I hadn't realised it's words would work like a sedative on me and that I'd fall asleep within 10 pages almost every time I read. Less than half way through I turned to some GR reviews to get a sense of what others thought. Fortunately one mentioned an eventful last ten pages and this powered me on. True, there was an unexpected twist at the end but to my mind it simply didn't compensate for the rest of the book. Suffice to say, I was not a fan and the best I can say is that I finished. I'm glad others enjoyed it but this is one picnic I wish I'd declined. *This title being the irl book club choice for January....I wonder if I'll be in the minority there too.
2702849899	Picnic at Hanging Rock is set in Australia in 1900, and centres on the disappearance of three schoolgirls and a teacher during a picnic at the titular Rock. The mystery is nebulous and open-ended. In many ways, the book isn't really about that; it's about loss and yearning and change, about being aware that youth, beauty and happiness are transient states. More than anything, it reminded me of Le Grand Meaulnes, evoking the same feelings of nostalgia and unbearable longing. The sun-soaked, verdant setting is alive and lush on the page. Despite the subject matter, the main impression I've taken away from this is a hazy vision of an enchanted moment in time.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
5702508791	(4.5 stars)This was a romp! It was at times dark and mysterious but somehow still a romp. Picnic at Hanging Rock is an Australian modern classic that begins on Valentine’s Days 1900 at a boarding school for girls. The students are excited to exchange valentines and for the trip they will be taking to Hanging Rock for a picnic. These beginning scenes are beautifully atmospheric with the young girls in muslin, ribbons and curls, in the Australian heat, with the menacing Hanging Rock in the distance. Before the day is over, four girls and a governess will have gone missing and so the mystery begins. PAHR is written in a classical style but I did not find it difficult to read. I love that it was mysterious with a sense of foreboding yet witty. This was one of those books that reminds me why I love to read. I stayed up way too late reading a couple of nights because I was so immersed in the story and I loved the way it surprised me. If you read the Penguin edition, skip the introduction until you read the book, as it is spoiler-y but do read it. It was interesting to learn that there was initially a final chapter - that explains what happened - that ended up being cut and leaving the ambiguous ending.I think this is an absolutely perfect summer read to take out on a picnic… or maybe not! 😳
3191246233	Acabo de terminar de leerla y ando un poco impactado con el final, las últimas secuelas de la famosa desaparición y cómo continúa modelando la vida de la gente a su alrededor. En esta misma ficha Mark Monday equipara Picnic en Hanging Rock con una caja mágica. Un contenedor donde entra mucho más de lo que parece en principio posible. A través de lo que Joan Lindsay cuenta y, sobre todo, con lo que no pero termina acertando a transmitir; mediante el escenario, la atmósfera, las elipsis, lo simbólico... Pero si tengo que alabar un detalle por encima de cualquier otro es su narradora. Sutilmente sarcástica, desde el presente escribe sobre ese pasado lleno de pretensiones, equívocos, clasismo, sin por ello perder de vista que también trata del momento y el lugar para el que está escrito. Esto es lo que sin duda recordaré junto a la atmósfera espeluznante de muchos pasajes.
7618379014	I was ask to read this for a book club I’m participating in, and if I’m being honest, I struggled with this book. Not because it is complex, but because I felt like I was being asked to see something profound in a haze that never quite cleared for me. Art can be many things: metaphor, mystery, memory. But for me, connection matters most. I need characters who breathe, stories that grip, and meaning that doesn’t have to be excavated with a pickaxe.Maybe for some, Picnic at Hanging Rock is a poetic meditation on colonialism, loss, or the wilderness of the human spirit. But that wasn’t my experience. And that’s okay. That’s what I love about books — we don’t all have to see the same thing to have a conversation worth having.
2497887513	I re-read this book after viewing the recent Foxtel television series adaptation. I'd read a paperback edition two or three times during my teens - it was one of my favourites at the time - but had bought this lovely hardback illustrated edition a few years back second hand. The story was ethereal and intriguing as I recalled, and I was somewhat relieved to find that I hadn't forgotten or missed character details in my earlier readings - the television series used a lot of creative licence in creating backstories for many characters and undercurrents beneath the plot that weren't there in the original novel.
1605995660	"Picnic at Hanging Rock" is a really mysterious and spooky story. It's presented as based on a true story that happened in 1900, but as I found out in the net, it's completely fiction.Things are never fully explained and I could only guess the real causes and the real cruel or strange motives. As I finished reading it almost at night-it gave me shivers, because I didn't expect this book to create such a spooky and fearful atmosphere. The biggest horror is the mix of haziness and cruelty of people. The endings (the book missed the last chapter, so I had to find it in the internet. It is called "The Secret of Hanging Rock") were so unexpected and the missing chapter explained a lot. But still a lot must be guessed at. As Australia is famous for aborigines and spiritualism, I think that this helped the mystical theme a lot. In some way the last chapter cleared some mystique, but it didn't spoil it. I still think about the book and I am still trying to figure out if the deaths(?) on the hanging Rock were murders or suicides. I still can't recover from the cruelty of the master "witch". Maybe I'm too sentimental when I read about the strange deaths of children. But anyway, it's more intriguing to let readers' interpret for themselves. Still, the story without a clear ending, leaves a feeling of incompleteness and it's unsatisfying in some way.
2652344145	4.5 stars.I am quite wary of true crime/mystery genres because of the sheer amount of mediocre books in there. Mystery done right can leave me breathless and eagerly waiting to find out the what and the why and the how. Picnic at Hanging Rock is one of these well-written ones.Equal parts historical fiction and thriller, the book often reads like a true crime narrative. On Saint Valentine's day 1900, three girls from Appleyard College and one of their teachers disappear on Hanging Rock, a mountainous outgrowth in the Australian bush. One of the girls is mysteriously found nearly a week later, injured but alive. The others are never heard from again. While many theories, along with the writer's expurgated chapter, have been put forth to explain what may have happened, the mystery remains unsolvable. Themes like what colonialism has done to sacred land, women's sexual repression in the Victorian era, the conflict between Nature and Nurture, and preoccupation with social status are dominant. I'm not bothered by the lack of a satisfactory resolution because the whole process of speculation is quite rewarding. This is a dense book and you will move back and forth for clues. The uneasy whisper of something dreadful is never far, no matter where you go. One of the best books I've read this year.
68832288	It is very rare that you can say a book is "exquisite" but there is really no other words for this little gem by Joan Lindsay. Short and sweet, eerie and elegant all at once, this book is part romance, part comedy of manners, part horror story. Three schoolgirls and their teacher go missing during a picnic and the impact of the mystery reverberates throughout the small rural community they live in, negatively and positively changing the lives of a variety of characters from different social and ethnic backgrounds, deepened only further when one of the girls returns but the others vanish entirely. Lindsay wisely only provides clues and very few answers; what answers she does provide only further deepen the mysteries. She plays constant tricks with the narrative, jumping backwards and forwards in time when it suits her, jarring the reader with an excess of information and details while at the same time telling them nothing; all the while maintaining a cool voice that perfectly invokes the 1900 setting and its no-nonsense value system. As the tale unravels, and with it the minds of some of the principal characters, the sense of impending doom and hysteria mounts in an almost palpable fashion- and leaves you feeling purged and frustrated at the same time.
823507875	I am sure enough has been said about this book and I do not have any earthshattering coments, except to the last ten pages. Wow! It was a complete surprise.An ok story, written mostly from little evidence and a lot of imagination a loooong time ago.I suppose if I were a writer in 1966 (or whenever she started) and was looking for something different to write about, I might pick this strange story to incorporate into a novel, like Joan Lindsay did. She did it her way. The writing is pretty dated for today, and most of the activities at the Girl's School seem very quaint and almost Machiavellian (strapping young Sarah to a vertical, padded board during "gym" because she had been caught slouching). It is a Jane Eyre setting Austrailia style, at the turn of the century (1900). It is strange to think how it was. WHAT happened? Still, only questions remain about what happened to the girls and their governess.I do not think I am interested in watching the movie.
4095054495	Ця книга не була для мене захопливим читанням, водночас я справді не маю питань до того, чому вона стала класичним твором для австралійської літератури.Початок минулого століття, приватний пансіонат для юних леді і пікнік біля Навислої скелі, де зникають троє дівчат та їхня вихователька. І здавалося б, ми маємо наприкінці дізнатися, що саме з ними сталося. Натомість авторка покаже, як ця подія вплинула на життя інших героїв, а для різних поколінь читачів – лишить крихти і натяки та подарує нагоду порозмірковувати над розгадкою самостійно.Роздумую над тим, щоб подивитися екранізацію 1975 року, бо її називають дуже атмосферною. Врешті-решт, не в кожному ж історичному романі на вас вистрибують валабі з кущів.п.с. Бідна Сара.
2413711785	I am the odd reader out on this one. It wasn’t my cup of tea. The writing was great, and the way the characters came alive in the first few chapters was a tour de force. But pretty much everything that happened after the disappearances failed to engage me; it became one long, dull denouement. And I thought the headmistress was poorly drawn and thus uninteresting.
845127253	My partner used to live near Hanging Rock. He came to Australia from Ireland as a teenager, and was immediately struck by the beauty and strangeness of the Australian Bush. He fell in love with it then, a love that never went away. He lived in Mt Macedon, a small community very close to Hanging Rock. He got his motorbike licence from the local policeman at Woodend ("Ride around the block and come back and tell me how you went." "Did you fall off? No? Good, then here's your licence.") and he lived in the rural community for many years.He swears this book is based on truth, because people talked of it as if it were true.I am equally sure it's a wonderful fiction from a writer's mind. Sure, there was a girl's school near Hanging Rock. And yes, mysteriously the Woodend police station burnt down and all records were destroyed, but the book is (according to Joan Lindsay) fiction. But it's so compelling, such a mysterious tale, and there are many, many people who swear it's based on reality.What is undeniably true is that this slim book tells the tale of a classic Australian mystery. Around 1900, on a hot summer's day, girls from an academy for young women go on a picnic to Hanging Rock. Four girls and a teacher vanish. Days later, one of the girls reappears, the others are never found. Why I love this so much is that Lindsay loved the bush. Her language is lush, poetic, somnolent in its descriptions of birds and trees and the lazy summer day. The creek rippling beside the picnic grounds, the sky, the wind, the tiny details. It's written with love. Only someone who has also fallen in love with the bush, as a thing to be loved, enjoyed, and yes, treated with a degree of caution, could write something like this. This isn't a travel guide to Australia - this is a song of understanding.The other thing that everyone knows about "Picnic at Hanging Rock" is that originally Lindsay wrote a final chapter, which explained the girls' disappearance. Her publisher persuaded her that the book was better without this final chapter, and so for years the ending hung, an unexplained mystery. Without chapter 18, PaHR contradicts many rules of novel writing. There simply isn't any sort of satisfying ending on any level, but somehow, it works. The book is much loved, enduring, and talked about when many, possibly better, books have fallen by the way.The final chapter was published after Lindsay's death in 1985 as a standalone short: The Secret of Hanging Rock.
2901048177	The Blair Witch Project of its day, if you will - a novel published in 1967 about a purportedly (but not really) true event in 1900, when three students and a teacher from a girls' school vanished while on a trip to Hanging Rock, near Melbourne. Lindsey uses this event - inexplicable, unresolvable* despite the best efforts of both characters and narrative - to explore a number of divisions in Australian society, most notably between nature and Anglo-Australian stuffiness, comical in the face of the bush, but also class stratification and disconnects between women and men (and women and women and men and men - there's a lot of homoeroticism at play here).** All along, the disaster and mystery loom over the proceedings, as does the Rock itself, nightmarish in the distance as the trauma spirals out through the community into interconnected tragedies and disappointments. Lindsay really excels at painting both the natural and the supernatural, and the scene where the girls disappear is really an all-time great example of weird details slowly and subtly accreting and warping a previously-tranquil narrative. It does lag briefly in the move from the second to the third act, and Lindsay loves pointing out how fat and ugly her "bad" characters are, but overall this is a fantastic novel that belongs in the Weird canon, sad and beautiful and gently ironical as it is."It is probably just as well for our nervous equilibrium that such cataclysms of personal fortune are usually disguised as everyday occurrences, like the choice of boiled or poached eggs for breakfast."* Of course, now we know that Lindsey did resolve it and her editor convinced her to cut that chapter, although perhaps "resolve" is a strong word for just pushing the explanation behind some spiritualist mumbo-jumbo. The book is much stronger for its exclusion.** But not racial disconnects, because for all you'd know reading this novel Aborigines never existed.
1989704178	Volví a leer esta novela con mi club de lectura "Siniestras" y aunque tuvo opiniones dispares entre las lectoras, yo confirmé que lo sigo adorando. Una de las críticas recurrentes fue que este es un libro en donde no pasa nada y que la atención se desvía del misterio y los personaje principales casi de inmediato. Me parece que son críticas muy válidas, pero creo que eso es precisamente lo que me gusta del libro. La desaparición es sólo el pretexto para contar muchas cosas más en esta histora en donde contrastan el ambiente opresivo y artificial de la academia Appleyard con la naturaleza salvaje y libre de Hanging Rock. No quiero hacer spoilers, pero esa escena en el gimnasio, casi al final del libro, me hizo pensar en un montón de pintujras del infierno en donde hay un montón de gente con caras de ira/extasis. Creo que en ese aspecto se traduce maravillosamente bien el origen deLindsay como pintora y su contacto con el mundo de las artes, todo el libro es una pintura preciosa. Hay mil cosas más de las cuales podría hablar: el simbolismo de los cisnes/Miranda/Afrodita, los relojes que se detienen misteriosamente, el final de la directora... pero creo que es mejor que ustedes lo descubran. Famosamente, Lindsay dejó el final "abierto" por recomendación de sus editores, sin embargo, hoy en día es posible encontrar y leer el mítico capítulo 18 en donde se revela lo que les ocurre a las chicas. Léanlo bajo su propio riesgo, hontestamente, a mi me gusta más sin esa revelación.
2461968002	What a surprise this book was! I knew from the back that it was about the disappearance of several young girls while on a picnic, but I imagined that they get lost or kidnapped--some traditional way. There is NOTHING traditional about the disappearance of these women! What a wonderfully layered book this is. It is about the disappearance of the girls, of course, but that happens early on, and most of the book takes place far from the site of this. We find ourselves exploring the effects on the people left behind, on friends and loved ones, even people who didn't know them but became a part of the event by sheer random chance. We see the effect of public opinion as the headmistress of the school struggles to keep her business from tanking as a result. But the mystery!! The mystery is quite delicious and I would still love to know what happened. I think, though, that the mystery is much more powerful and effective by remaining one instead of having some explanation offered that would never measure up to my imagination. And the ending! The ending took me completely by surprise! All in all, the cover of this book COMPLETELY belies the content. It looks so proper and Victorian, and it is anything but. Highly recommended!! I will leave you with the wonderful review by my friend mark monday, who articulates it so well!
1865738710	SO. MUCH. CONFUSION.
2516381781	** spoiler alert ** Outwardly 'normal' with undercurrents of the sinister.I recently watched an adaptation of this book, and as such, had to buy the book - I was desperate to know how the two compared!Reading Picnic at Hanging Rock, I can see why people choose to adapt it for the screen. It is such a multi-layered book; seemingly everything is okay and as it should be on the surface, but there's so much bubbling underneath. Very clever indeed.So, for those who haven't read it... the book centres on a school in Australia, run by Ms Appleyard, a boot-faced old biddy who doesn't seem to like anyone, much less her students. One day, the girls are taken on a picnic to Hanging Rock; a natural formation of rocks that have a lot of mystery and superstition surrounding them. Three girls disappear, plus one teacher. Naturally, the school erupts into chaos. One girl, Edith, who accompanied the other three but made it back, can't remember a thing. One of the other teachers noticed that her watch stopped while she was there. Two boys; the posh Michael and his friend Albert, were there on the day too, and subsequently help with the search for the girls. One of the girls, Irma, is found afterwards. Despite being out there for days, she seems in fairly good health, but has no memory of what happened. As for the other two girls and the teacher? They're never seen again. This is what is so clever about the book - on the one level, it's a story about a tragic situation and how people react to it. But it's no much more than that. You've got the magic and mystery of the ancient aboriginal rock, and its strange juxtaposition with the prim-and-proper girls' school. The characters themselves are only distantly depicted; we never really get to know them on a personal level. It's as though they are puppets on a stage, merely acting out the roles assigned to them.As for the mystery of the disappearance itself? I love that it's so ambiguous; that's what makes it haunting. We never find out what happened to them, but that's what's so fabulous about it. After I'd finished reading this book, I lay awake for hours going over the evidence. Clearly something supernatural was at work, I thought. But was it? That's open for interpretation too. This book really is well worth reading because it is so different. It'll stay in your head for days afterwards!
4105188510	In the year 1900, on Valentine's Day, a party of young girls from a private school north of Melbourne, disappear on an excursion to a volcanic formation called Hanging Rock. After climbing the rock for a while with her friends, the youngest of the party emerged from the scrub in her dress torn to ribbons, crying like a lunatic. Three girls are missing: Miranda, Irma and Marion. Miss Greta McCraw, the maths teacher, also vanished without a trace. A week later, Irma is found unconscious on the Rock, almost unharmed, but with absolutely no recollection of what happened. The other young women are never heard from again. Were they abducted? Did they fall in a cleft in the Rock? In the following months, the unsolved mystery grows and ravages the school and all the people attached to this story. PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK (1967) is a disquieting, atmospheric novel with an incisive social critique, with a haunting mystery and very few answers. If you dislike ambiguous endings, this Australian classic might disappoint you, however, its dreamy prose, the sharp irony and the compelling storytelling will surely lure you right from the start. Highly recommended.
2593274581	Creo que todo está orquestado por una organización de extraterrestres proxenetas de apariencia espectral.
3027358929	Picnic At Hanging Rock is a mystery classic, a surreal novel that takes place at a boarding school in Australia. When 4 people vanish, the town is ablaze with gossip about the fates of these three girls and their teacher. The book tells the stories of many of the people connected to the story and the aftermath of this devastating event.The prose in this is quite lovely, it has a dreamlike quality that is perfect. However I did often get confused about whose viewpoint we'd just switched to and who was doing what, due to the book very rapidly switching people from paragraph to paragraph.I loved the friendship between Albert and Mike. Polar opposites in that Mike is a wealthy toff and Albert grew up in an orphanage, his tattoos making him look 'rough', their two personalities compliment one another and I always felt at ease when in their presence.I did find it strange that this entire story centers around a boarding school but after the girls and the teacher disappears, we hardly ever see the world from the girl's viewpoints, more often the teachers.
2350988993	It was a good story idea just poorly realized . Otherwise ditto on Debra's review . The book was a disappointment . A 2.5 . Originally rounded up but on further review rounded down .
7092822275	2.5 stars rounded upDid I like this?? I don't know. It's kind of boring a lot of the time and takes forever for anything to happen. The ending is ambiguous and while there are clues to what might have happened along the way, you really have to be paying attention. I feel middle of the road about it, but I like some of what it's trying to do. The writing is pretty, but again not much HAPPENS, or rather it does but we never focus on it. Like the most boring way to write about the disappearance and murder of young women.
70258806	One of my favourite books.Four girls and one of their governesses climb Hanging Rock on St. Valentine's day. One returns immediately, scared out of her mind and with no memory of why she is in such a state. Another is found later, also with no memory of what happened to her during her time on the Rock. The other two girls and their teacher are never seen again. One of Australia's most enduring, and fictional despite it being so ingrained our cultural memory it often is mistaken for being real, mysteries. There is no solution - you are free to make your own theory, and that is so much more rewarding than seeking out the 'missing chapter' that was published after the author's death. There are so many readings one can do of this book, and the subsequent film.It is an exploration of female sexuality, the eternal battle between civilisation and nature, the clash between colonisation and the Dreamtime, and can even be read through queer theory (the relationships between Michael and Albert, Miranda and Sara, Appleyard and McCraw). The book is rich with subtle innuendo, and multi-layered, despite its slight length.I re-read this book time and time again, and find something new every time.
4975745745	This feels to me like a rather harsh takedown of one of our fondest illusions: that we have control over our fate. By creating a rather strict and innocent environment that should be easy to control and having it totally implode in several different ways over the course of the story Lindsay elucidates this. And many planned situations in the side plots are disrupted by strange accidents or misplacings or forgettings. And there is this recurring symbol of broken watches in the story, which suggested to me that the artificial order we give life is undependable.In mood this book is unsettling and vaguely eerie. You feel in it an unknown power hovering over and around the events and the characters, and guiding the characters astray or leaving them adrift. Lindsay compounds this mysterious feeling by introducing as many questions as she possibly can and leaving as many unanswered as palatable. This is some unusual and interesting storytelling. Finally Lindsay switches scenes rather briskly, even erratically, which made it a little confusing to me sometimes, but also engaging.
2435100450	Nie dziwota, że „Piknik pod Wiszącą Skałą” zrobił na australijskich odbiorcach tak piorunujące wrażenie, chociaż czytelnicy nie powinni spodziewać się fajerwerków emocji. Pomimo tego, że to w gruncie rzeczy powieść obyczajowa z gotyckim sznytem, miejscami nawet monotonna, to jest w tej historii coś hipnotyzującego, coś, co intryguje, a co sprawia, że z łatwością można uwierzyć w prawdziwość opisanych wydarzeń. W końcu zaginięcia w australijskim buszu to nic nowego, a sama atmosfera Australii, aborygeńskich wierzeń i ogromu terenu, który wciąż wydaje się dziwnie pierwotny sprawia, że czytelnika ogarnia swoisty niepokój. W tym niepokoju tkwi siła powieści Joan Lindsey i chociaż nie straszy nic a nic, to samo zniknięcie młodziutkich dziewuszek w pełnym słońcu, w taki piękny dzień jak tamtego 14 lutego 1900 wywołuje ciarki na plecach.Powieść kultowa, którą każdy wielbiciel grozy powinien poznać.
4853136158	So, I have no real clue what to write here.The book, the prose, the plot is exquisite. But I have no real clue what happened or why it happened! Maybe that was the point? Maybe the books leaves you to ponder about the chaos that is left behind after you go? Maybe I'm reading far too much into it? Loved it, sat and read most of it in the baking heat (under the shade of a garden umbrella) which added to the claustrophobia of the book....
7255983125	** spoiler alert ** Ненавиджу книжки після який залишаються ще якісь питання. Хто той чоловік з яким Сара пішла? Вона сама випала з вікна чи її вбили? Де інші тіла дівчат, які були на тому пікніку? Ще я не дуже люблю читати про 18 століття, особливо коли це розповідається про дівчат, бо тоді жінка повинна була бути тільки гарненькою лялькою, яка повинна вміти тільки слідкувати за господарством, в цій книжці було декілька висловлювань збоку вихователів до дівчат, і іноді я забувала що цим дівчатам не більше 14 років, здається щось було про чоловіків чи щось таке.
2486780163	Ya ni me acuerdo cuándo o por qué agregué este libro a la lista por leer y bueno, me sorprendió más de lo que esperaba. El misterio queda un poco en segundo plano, para enfocarse en la vida alrededor del colegio y la comunidad donde se desarrolla la historia y eso me gustó mucho más.El final me pareció correcto, pero no sorprendente. Así que yo le pondría 3.5 estrellas, que tal vez suba a cuatro.
2695369722	Phew. That was a stressful ride.Accurate representation of me listening to this book:OK. No lie. I started episode one of the series on Amazon Prime and then quickly realized that it was a novel. So, of course, I had to pause the TV show to listen to this book. Picnic at Hanging Rock was filled with murder, suspense, and at the end...(view spoiler)[questions...SO MANY FLIPPING QUESTIONS about what the heck actually happened (hide spoiler)].I ain't mad at it tho. Art imitates life in this instance. Sometimes there is no answer for unspeakable things.Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go watch the Queen (Natalie Dormer) make a master mystery out of Mrs. Appleyard.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2156778726	I have always loved this film, and didn't even realise it was a book. But perhaps the reason why no one talks about the novel and everyone knows the film, is that the book isn't that good. I like that the disappearance is never explained (although apparently the original version that Lindsay submitted did have an explanation), and I enjoyed the setting, and it certainly kept me reading. But, it was very old fashioned, and became ridiculously melodramatic by the end. Plus there was the annoying detail that all the beautiful girls were loved by everyone and all the fatter, ugly girls were portrayed as being annoying and stupid.
