6045532998	welcome to...METAMARCHOSES.this is another installment of project long classics, in which i read intimidating books in small chunks over the course of a month in order to achieve three goals: a) seem smart, b) make puns, and c) have an excuse to buy penguin clothbound classics.this one is slightly different because i already own it. brag alert: my boyfriend bought me my copy of this book when we were on a date in a closed bookstore. best date ever.anyway. i have no idea what this is about. it's divided into 15 books, so let's read half of one a day, shall we?BOOK I, PART Ithe GODS just MADE the WORLD and then FLOODED the HELL out of it. and the WRITING is BEAUTIFUL. i'm having so much fun already.BOOK I, PART IIthis part is mostly about really pretty girls catching the eye of gods and then being turned into trees and cows and stuff because of that bad luck.BOOK II, PART Isince the dawn of time, when cars were chariots and dads were gods, teenage boys in media have been driving their fathers' rides without permission only to f*ck everything up immediately.BOOK II, PART IIthis section focuses on a variety of tattletale birds.BOOK III, PART Ii did NOT know the tiresias tragic backstory (one time he was turned into a woman because he saw some snakes screwing and therefore was called on by jove and saturnia to settle who has more fun in bed and when he sided with jove and said women saturnia blinded him but then jove felt bad so he gave him the eternal gift of prophecy).BOOK III, PART IInow we're getting to echo and narcissus. this is like the greco-roman greatest hits.BOOK IV, PART Itaken aback to find the words "he clings to his misshapen ass" here.BOOK IV, PART IIthere's a girl walking around in a robe dripping blood wearing a live serpent as a belt throwing crazy-making snakes at people. and perseus is carrying medusa's head like a tote bag while he turns guys into mountains and saves fair maidens from sea monsters. this is in half of one chapter.BOOK V, PART Iby and large a play by play of who hit who with a spear.BOOK V, PART IIone of the most unforgivable crimes you could commit in the ancient world was being a tattletale. the phrase snitches get stitches has held true throughout time and space.BOOK VI, PART Iwe are never too busy for an exhaustive rundown of which people the gods have turned into which animals throughout time.BOOK VI, PART IIi am a sister girl for life, but i am not sure i would kill my son and then cut him up and cook him and feed him to my traitor husband in order to avenge mine. revenge would definitely be had but i'm not convinced i would choose that specifically.BOOK VII, PART Ioh how i love a witchy girl.BOOK VII, PART IIthis book is actually so interesting that i have to choose between 3+ jokes with every section. i hope you all appreciate my sacrifice.BOOK VIII, PART Ii guess i don't know what i expected from the minotaur origin story, but it wasn't either "deeply disturbing" or "a straight line from the icarus sun incident."BOOK VIII, PART IIthis is so rich with detail that it's like, "a bunch of guys died in a boar incident. a woman sets a fire in vengeance. the fire kills a father. all the daughters of the father are super mournful and upset. diana turns all those girls into birds, except two. these two are hercules' wife and the future mother of one of the guys who pops out of the trojan horse."and on top of all that i'm learning about stuff like "watch-geese." this is a perfect book.BOOK IX, PART Ieverybody has a name, a name from childhood, a name that's a reference to their dad, a name that's a reference to some kind of infidelity knowingly or unknowingly committed by their mom, and a nickname. this is fun and impossible!BOOK IX, PART IIin most cases i think fleeing your homeland and literally starting a new city from scratch in order to escape someone who has an unrequited crush on you is a bit much. however, if that person is your sister...fair enough!BOOK X, PART Ii know the whole orpheus and eurydice thing is supposed to be a great romance, as in he loved her too much to be able to turn his eye from her, but i think it's more of an illustration of the fact that men literally cannot listen.BOOK X, PART IItons of incest in this book. what is this, hbo?BOOK XI, PART Ithe fact that midas ASKED that everything he touched would turn to gold?? it's like if ella enchanted begged to be obedient before chasing lucinda all over kingdom come.BOOK XI, PART IIat this point i'm ready to believe the gods are just looking for reasons to turn women into birds. call a goddess ugly: you're a bird now. sleep with a god: you're a bird now. don't sleep with a god: you're a bird now. have a talent: you're a bird now. witness morpheus dressed up like your husband's very wet ghost in order to tell you that he drowned via dream: you're a bird now. enough already!BOOK XII, PART Ithese guys are getting really creative with their choice of battle weapons.BOOK XII, PART IIdid not know they had crowbars in ancient times. (see above.)BOOK XIII, PART Ii kind of love that ovid was like, oh, the legendary stories that would be the basis of the iliad and the odyssey? yeah. those are just chapters in my book.BOOK XIII, PART IIthree pages of the cyclops spitting straight game. telling your girl "i got you two bear cubs and it's actually good that i'm hairy, due to the ugliness" and then very quickly killing her boyfriend with a big rock could work on someone.BOOK XIV, PART Iwe just covered the events of the aeneid in a few paragraphs. ovid is showing off at this point!BOOK XIV, PART IIi'm ready to adjust my earlier declaration re: gods turning women into birds. i'd like to clarify that they also turn them into trees.BOOK XV, PART Ihere i am all sad that this is the penultimate day of this project and now i'm getting lectured for pages because i'm not a vegetarian. they're saying i'm no better than the cyclops and telling me i should be fine since grapes exist.BOOK XV, PART IIwe conclude with caesar, marc antony, cleopatra, and augustus, and ovid promising us he will always be famous. we've covered it all.OVERALLclearly i had a blast reading this book. it's likely the most fun i've had in any installment of project long classics, and also really lends itself to this format. i enjoyed every crazy second of this action-packed book.rating: 4.5
3676330	I bought this copy of Ovid's Metamorphoses when I was living in Rome. It's the book I was reading on the plane when I left Rome, as the realization sunk in that an awesome and strange adventure was drawing to a close, and it's the book I was still reading when I moved back to Minneapolis and attempted to readjust to life as a Midwestern college undergrad.I was reading Metamorphoses at the cafe a few blocks away from my apartment when a strange man gave me that little terror of a kitten, Monster. And Monster used to bite my toes when I was reading Metamorphoses in bed.I was in love, so much in love, when I read Metamorphoses, with someone I would surely never meet again. And I was so lonely. And Metamorphoses was just beautiful, all the forlorn humans going up against the gods, only to be transformed into plants, animals, birds~To read the great Roman poet while living in Rome, and to continue reading him while you are in mourning for the city once it's gone ~ was outrageous. In the best way. Grand. Epic. Eternal.
2553418763	Book the First: “Of bodies chang’d to various forms, I sing” The world is a constant changes… Everything moves and one thing always changes into the other.The earth was created by the god unknown as a sphere hanging in space… And life there was an idyll: no crimes, no enmity no wars… “From veins of vallies, milk and nectar broke; And honey sweating through the pores of oak.”But then the human history started and the deterioration began… “Truth, modesty, and shame, the world forsook: Fraud, avarice, and force, their places took.”Sins multiply and on observing the cases of cannibalism, Jove decides to destroy the sinful seed with the global deluge and to plant new generation of human beings sowing stones and turning them into males and females… “What the man threw, assum’d a manly face; And what the wife, renew’d the female race.” And then the multiple, fantastic and fabulous metamorphoses of deities commenced…Changes, alterations, transformations…Book the Second: Now it’s time for incompetent Phaeton to take his disastrous trip through the sky… “Th’ astonisht youth, where-e’er his eyes cou’d turn, Beheld the universe around him burn…” And the corresponding place in the Bible: “Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven…” Genesis 19:24. Both events are probably the references to the Minoan eruption of Thera, which was a major catastrophic volcanic eruption in recorded history.Arrogant deities keep intriguing, fornicating and stealing shamelessly… They are ready to use any means… “Livid and meagre were her looks, her eye In foul distorted glances turn’d awry; A hoard of gall her inward parts possess’d, And spread a greenness o’er her canker’d breast; Her teeth were brown with rust, and from her tongue, In dangling drops, the stringy poison hung.” This description of Envy is flowery and magnificent.Deception and revenge are the way of Gods…Book the Third: No one, except the major deities, is safe from a pernicious metamorphosis and fatal perishment. Transformations are miraculous and unpredictable: Actaeon into a stag; Tiresias into a woman; Narcissus into a flower; Echo into an incorporeal voice and mariners into dolphins…The archetype of dragon seems to have been known since the most ancient times… And the sowing of the dragon’s teeth have afterwards become the attribute of many fairytales: “He sows the teeth at Pallas’s command, And flings the future people from his hand.”The story of Tiresias as an arbiter of male and female sexual pleasures is the most picturesque: “‘The sense of pleasure in the male is far More dull and dead, than what you females share.’ Juno the truth of what was said deny’d; Tiresias therefore must the cause decide, For he the pleasure of each sex had try’d.” Much earlier Tiresias appears in Homer’s Odyssey as a prophetic ghost in the land of the dead.In the last century Tiresias was mentioned in the progressive rock song The Cinema Show by Genesis: “Once a man, like the sea I raged, Once a woman, like the earth I gave.”The tale of Narcissus is an allegory of egocentrism and the story of Pentheus is a fable of the foolish obduracy.Book the Fourth: An intrigue of The Story of Pyramus and Thisbe, especially in the end, reminds of that in Romeo and Juliet: “Then in his breast his shining sword he drown’d, And fell supine, extended on the ground. As out again the blade lie dying drew, Out spun the blood, and streaming upwards flew.” Now it is clear where the inspiration came from.“As when the stock and grafted twig combin’d Shoot up the same, and wear a common rind: Both bodies in a single body mix, A single body with a double sex.” The image of Hermaphroditus was integrated both in poetry and in modern pop culture. “Where between sleep and life some brief space is, With love like gold bound round about the head, Sex to sweet sex with lips and limbs is wed, Turning the fruitful feud of hers and his To the waste wedlock of a sterile kiss…” Algernon Charles Swinburne – Hermaphroditus“From a dense forest of tall dark pinewood, Mount Ida rises like an island. Within a hidden cave, nymphs had kept a child; Hermaphroditus, son of gods, so afraid of their love.” Genesis – The Fountain of SalmacisThe gods have a rich imagination and a wry sense of humour so the miraculous changes they work on the others are unpredictable.Book the Fifth: The description of the massacre at the feast is a pure satire… Who can be a match for Perseus possessing such a mighty weapon of mass destruction as Medusa’s head?“Weak was th’ usurper, as his cause was wrong; Where Gorgon’s head appears, what arms are strong? When Perseus to his host the monster held, They soon were statues, and their king expell’d.”Lewd Pyreneus decided to keep all the Muses in his private harem but they turned into birds and flew away while the unlucky libertine lacking creative imagination just fell from a tower: “Then, in a flying posture wildly plac’d, And daring from that height himself to cast, The wretch fell headlong, and the ground bestrew’d With broken bones, and stains of guilty blood.”And the tale of Ceres and Proserpine is one of the archetypal myths explaining the existence of seasons: “Jove some amends for Ceres lost to make, Yet willing Pluto shou’d the joy partake, Gives ’em of Proserpine an equal share, Who, claim’d by both, with both divides the year. The Goddess now in either empire sways, Six moons in Hell, and six with Ceres stays.”Book the Sixth: In the tales of Arachne and Niobe Ovid just ridicules the vainglory and smugness of gods and their unmotivated cruelty too: “Next she design’d Asteria’s fabled rape, When Jove assum’d a soaring eagle’s shape: And shew’d how Leda lay supinely press’d, Whilst the soft snowy swan sate hov’ring o’er her breast, How in a satyr’s form the God beguil’d, When fair Antiope with twins he fill’d. Then, like Amphytrion, but a real Jove, In fair Alcmena’s arms he cool’d his love.” Arachne’s tapestry is a set of sheer evidences against gods’ lechery and she has obviously won but Goddess in fury destroyed the masterpiece and turned Arachne into a spider: “This the bright Goddess passionately mov’d, With envy saw, yet inwardly approv’d. The scene of heav’nly guilt with haste she tore, Nor longer the affront with patience bore; A boxen shuttle in her hand she took, And more than once Arachne’s forehead struck.”And so it is with a coldblooded murder of Niobe’s children.The tale of Tereus, Procne and Philomela is something like a horror mystery told in the goriest hues: “But soon her tongue the girding pinchers strain, With anguish, soon she feels the piercing pain: Oh father! father! would fain have spoke, But the sharp torture her intention broke; In vain she tries, for now the blade has cut Her tongue sheer off, close to the trembling root.”This book is a very sanguinary one.Book the Seventh: Medea knows her witchcraft: “In a large cauldron now the med’cine boils, Compounded of her late-collected spoils, Blending into the mesh the various pow’rs Of wonder-working juices, roots, and flow’rs; With gems i’ th’ eastern ocean’s cell refin’d, And such as ebbing tides had left behind; To them the midnight’s pearly dew she flings, A scretch-owl’s carcase, and ill boding wings; Nor could the wizard wolf’s warm entrails scape (That wolf who counterfeits a human shape).” “Fillet of a fenny snake, In the cauldron boil and bake; Eye of newt and toe of frog, Wool of bat and tongue of dog, Adder’s fork and blind-worm’s sting, Lizard’s leg and howlet’s wing, For a charm of pow’rful trouble, Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.” William Shakespeare – MacbethThe methods of witches and their cooking recipes hardly changed since Ovid’s time.This book seems to be less impressive than the previous ones.Book the Eighth: The greater part of the book is the tales of traitorous Scylla and hunting for the ferocious boar.The most famous legends of Minotaur: “These private walls the Minotaur include, Who twice was glutted with Athenian blood: But the third tribute more successful prov’d, Slew the foul monster, and the plague remov’d. When Theseus, aided by the virgin’s art, Had trac’d the guiding thread thro’ ev’ry part, He took the gentle maid, that set him free, And, bound for Dias, cut the briny sea. There, quickly cloy’d, ungrateful, and unkind, Left his fair consort in the isle behind…” and Icarus: “When now the boy, whose childish thoughts aspire To loftier aims, and make him ramble high’r, Grown wild, and wanton, more embolden’d flies Far from his guide, and soars among the skies. The soft’ning wax, that felt a nearer sun, Dissolv’d apace, and soon began to run. The youth in vain his melting pinions shakes, His feathers gone, no longer air he takes: Oh! Father, father, as he strove to cry, Down to the sea he tumbled from on high, And found his Fate; yet still subsists by fame, Among those waters that retain his name.” are told just en passant…And the beautiful story of Philemon and Baucis is most warmhearted and even romantic.Book the Ninth: Vicissitudes of love keep ruling over both gods and mortals…I liked how an origin of cornucopia was described: “Nor yet his fury cool’d; ’twixt rage and scorn, From my maim’d front he tore the stubborn horn: This, heap’d with flow’rs, and fruits, the Naiads bear, Sacred to plenty, and the bounteous year.”And the process of turning of Heracles into a constellation was beautiful: “So when Alcides mortal mold resign’d, His better part enlarg’d, and grew refin’d; August his visage shone; almighty Jove In his swift carr his honour’d offspring drove; High o’er the hollow clouds the coursers fly, And lodge the hero in the starry sky.”I especially enjoyed the tale of Iphis and Ianthe. Even Egyptian goddess Isis had her finger in the pie – she assisted two girls in love with each other transforming one of them into a youth making thus their love legal: “Not much in fear, nor fully satisfy’d; But Iphis follow’d with a larger stride: The whiteness of her skin forsook her face; Her looks embolden’d with an awful grace; Her features, and her strength together grew, And her long hair to curling locks withdrew. Her sparkling eyes with manly vigour shone, Big was her voice, audacious was her tone. The latent parts, at length reveal’d, began To shoot, and spread, and burnish into man. The maid becomes a youth; no more delay Your vows, but look, and confidently pay.”All we need is love…Book the Tenth: Story of Orpheus and Eurydice seems to be most popular in the world of poetry, arts, literature and even music. And “Never look back” is also an archetypal motif in myths, the Bible (Lot’s wife) and many fairytales all over the world: “They well-nigh now had pass’d the bounds of night, And just approach’d the margin of the light, When he, mistrusting lest her steps might stray, And gladsome of the glympse of dawning day, His longing eyes, impatient, backward cast To catch a lover’s look, but look’d his last; For, instant dying, she again descends, While he to empty air his arms extends.”Pygmalion carved his statue in ivory: “Yet fearing idleness, the nurse of ill, In sculpture exercis’d his happy skill; And carv’d in iv’ry such a maid, so fair, As Nature could not with his art compare…” so it couldn’t be bigger than a figurine or a statuette but the story goes as if it were lifesize.And the clinical case of Myrrha’s incestual lust is told in a weird psychoanalytical style of Sigmund Freud.And anemone is an extremely anemic flower: “Still here the Fate of lovely forms we see, So sudden fades the sweet Anemonie. The feeble stems, to stormy blasts a prey, Their sickly beauties droop, and pine away.”Book the Eleventh: Orpheus has met the bitter end – he was ripped to shreds by drunken Maenads: “His mangled limbs lay scatter’d all around, His head, and harp a better fortune found; In Hebrus’ streams they gently roul’d along, And sooth’d the waters with a mournful song.” Somehow, this reminded me of the mass hysteria of the Beatles’ concerts in the middle of the sixties…Ever since my childhood I was fascinated with the fable of King Midas – I enjoyed both his golden touch foolishness: “He pluck’d the corn, and strait his grasp appears Fill’d with a bending tuft of golden ears,” and his award of ass’s ears: “Fix’d on his noddle an unseemly pair, Flagging, and large, and full of whitish hair; Without a total change from what he was, Still in the man preserves the simple ass.”“Pan tun’d the pipe, and with his rural song Pleas’d the low taste of all the vulgar throng; Such songs a vulgar judgment mostly please, Midas was there, and Midas judg’d with these.” It reads exactly as if Ovid portrayed the showbiz and music critics of today.And Ceyx’s hapless attempt at seafaring is in a way quite antithetical to The Odyssey: “An universal cry resounds aloud, The sailors run in heaps, a helpless crowd; Art fails, and courage falls, no succour near; As many waves, as many deaths appear.” The sea always was a merciless widow-maker.Book the Twelfth: This book is of war and warriors. One strangled warrior was turned into a swan and one raped maiden was turned into male warrior… The incessant descriptions of battles are too monotonous and tedious and even the death of Achilles seems to be unimpressive: “Of all the mighty man, the small remainsA little urn, and scarcely fill’d, contains.”Book the Thirteenth: Troy fell. Ajax and Ulysses compete for dead Achilles’ magical armor. “Brawn without brain is thine: my prudent care Foresees, provides, administers the war…” Ulysses declares and wins… “Now cannot his unmaster’d grief sustain, But yields to rage, to madness, and disdain…” Unable to endure his dishonor, Ajax falls upon his own sword… War is evil… Make love, not war.Book the Fourteenth: Nymphomaniac sorceress Circe embarks on a spree of malicious alterations: out of jealousy she turns Scylla into a bloodthirsty monster: “Soon as the nymph wades in, her nether parts Turn into dogs; then at her self she starts…” and she turns innocent sailors into beasts: “Soon, in a length of face, our head extends; Our chine stiff bristles bears, and forward bends: A breadth of brawn new burnishes our neck; Anon we grunt, as we begin to speak.” And with many adventures Ulysses sails on and on…Book the Fifteenth: Rome is founded and caesars begin to reign trying to usurp divine power of their gods…“The work is finish’d, which nor dreads the rage Of tempests, fire, or war, or wasting age…”Gods are like humans but they are more vainglorious, more powerful, more cunning, more perfidious, more libidinous and much more vengeful.
2674916221	The Metamorphoses are Ovid’s masterpiece and one of the literary monuments of Antiquity, alongside the Bible, Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey and Virgil’s Aeneid. As the title suggests, Ovid’s book is about change, transformation, mutation. Its scope is exceptionally ambitious, encyclopaedic even. It covers the whole of ancient mythology, from the creation of the world and the flood to the epic of Phaëton, from Jupiter’s rape of various nymphs to the abduction of Europa, from Narcissus in love with his own reflection to Perseus and Medusa, from the rape of Proserpina to Medea and Jason, from Theseus and the Minotaur to the fall of Icarus, from Meleäger and the Calydonian Boar to Byblis’ and Myrrha’s incestuous passions, from the works of Hercules to the doomed love of Orpheus and Eurydice in the underworld, from the desire of Venus for Adonis to King Midas turning everything into gold, from the shipwreck of Cëyx to the battle of the Centaurs and to the Trojan War, from the sufferings of Hecuba to the wanderings of Aeneas, from Ulysses in Polyphemus’ cave to Circe’s witchcraft, and last but not least, from Romulus down to Julius Caesar. In short, Ovid has it all figured out!Ovid’s Metamorphoses, like Virgil’s Aeneid, was written under the reign of Augustus and both works are, in their way, a glorification of the Roman Empire. All prior tribulations of gods and men aim towards this apex of history, this ideal order of civilisation. But Virgil’s and Ovid’s ways are very different. While Virgil unfolds the story of Aeneas in a single grand narrative, taking inspiration from the Odyssey, Ovid seems to be jumping randomly from one legend to the next, sometimes arranged into a Russian doll structure, thus covering a vast body of material (several hundreds of tales borrowed mostly from Greek literature). Within this colourful poem, there is one obsessive idea: the metamorphose (other recurring themes are romantic passion and sexual obsession). In a way, Virgil and Ovid could be compared to the myth of Arachne, exposed in book 6: Virgil being the Minervean, elevated, distinguished bard and Ovid the Arachnean, careless, disorganised poet.At first, it seems he has gathered together every legend where some magical transformation is involved (Jupiter turning himself into a white bull, Actaeon changed by Diana into a stag, and so on). But by the end of the epic, primarily through Pythagoras’ speech in book 15 (my fave section), we come to understand that Ovid has a sort of profound ontological idea in mind. His book illustrates some kind of Heraclitean world view, whereby everything is in constant transmutation and flux. In a way, while Virgil is putting forward a historical statement about the origins of Rome, placing everything in a genealogical line, Ovid suggests something much more unstable and uncertain. If Augustus’ Empire is the pinnacle of human history, the poem makes room for further transformations and alterations down the line — a non-dogmatic, almost modern vision of history. Ovid knows that the Augustinian Empire, like everything else under the moon, is condemned to decay and death. (Did this contribute to his later banishment to the Black Sea — see the fantastic Poems of Exile?) The only thing that will remain through time is, according to the Epilogue (15, 870 sqq.), the poem itself, a poem about growth, transformation, and degeneration.Another surprising fact about the Metamorphoses, also in line with Ovid’s metaphysical view of an all changing universe, is the justification of vegetarianism in book 15: “What a heinous crime is committed when guts disappear inside a fellow-creature’s intestines” (15, 86-87). Indeed, if gods and men can mutate into animals, a meat-eating individual is in some way a barbaric cannibal or a sacrilegious god-eater. Note the similarities between Ovid’s pagan doctrine on this issue and modern religious practices based on the belief on reincarnation (Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism). In a broader sense, this very much resonates with our contemporary concerns about animal suffering and climate change. (One last thing that resonates with me in that same book 15, during this present time of coronavirus global pandemic, is the mention of Aesculapius, the saviour of Rome during the plague.)Ovid is always a delight to read, chiefly because his descriptions are still readable and to the point, often playful or emotional, and never shy away from graphic details, visceral or sexual. See, for instance, the gory wedding banquets at the beginning of book 5 and book 12 (possible influence to the “Red Wedding” in Game of Thrones). Also see the erotic and gruesome story of Tereus and Philomela (book 6) — incidentally a blueprint for Shakespeare’s Titus Andronicus (which is, in turn, a recipe for the episode of the “Frey Pies”, again in Game of Thrones!). Furthermore (considering that the little Latin I have ever known is gone forever), David Raeburn’s recent translation into English hexameters is extraordinarily readable and never draws the reader’s attention to itself.The Metamorphoses have had an enormous influence on Western culture, not just on other Roman writers, such as Apuleius with his spicy Golden Ass. It has made a particular impression on numerous artists since the Renaissance. Think of Botticelli, of course. Think of Titian’s Poesie, ordered by King Felipe II of Spain. Think of Brueghel’s Landscape with the Fall of Icarus (from book 8). Think of the Pre-Raphaelites (see below the exquisite Echo and Narcissus by Waterhouse — from book 3). Think of countless references made by Dante, Montaigne, Cervantes or Shakespeare in their works. Case in point: Pyramus and Thisbe (book 4) is inserted within A Midsummer Night's Dream and is the inspiration of Romeo and Juliet; the affliction of Hecuba (book 13) is slotted into Hamlet; Prospero’s late speech in The Tempest is inspired by Medea’s speech (book 7). Think too of all the plays based on the myth of Pygmalion (e.g. the Broadway musical and the film version of My Fair Lady). Think of the popular sword-and-sandal movies such as Jason and the Argonauts. And think nowadays of all the bestsellers that borrow from Greco-Roman myths — most of which are to be found chiefly in the Metamorphoses — indirectly, J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter series, or more directly, Madeline Miller or Stephen Fry’s latest books.In short, Ovid’s Metamorphoses is to Greco-Roman mythology more or less what Snorri Sturluson is to Norse myths. While Snorri is essential to understanding the culture of the Vikings, without some knowledge of Ovid’s book, it would be practically impossible to comprehend Mediterranean Antiquity and, indeed, Western culture.
2765369392	There's honestly something deeply fascinating to me about reading the words of someone who lived 2000 years ago, who wrote these exact words 2000 years ago, and though I completely understand why reading translation is done - I think reading translated lit is amazing - it is undoubtedly more interesting to read this word-by-word, to see connotations and derivatives and line breaks and literary devices. So yes, I read this in the original Latin! With the help of a lot of vocabulary lists because I don’t speak Latin as fluently as I would like to. (Shouldn’t passing an AP exam make you fluent? Anyway.) Ovid’s language is... so good. Some story reviews follow: Deucalion & Pyrrha, 1.348-415 This is the story of an apocalypse, or in this case, a failed apocalypse. This is the story of a world empty “inanem” and of two lovers at its fall, attempting to bring it back. The language of this is so sweepingly gorgeous; the image of Deucalion and Pyrrha in front of the Themis’ watered-down altar is deeply satisfying. Very Adam-and-Eve and very satisfying. Daphne & Apollo, 1.452-657 Daphne and Apollo is a story that would be cool to see done by like, Catullus. (Poem 64 the only bitch in this house I respect!!) In general conceit, it is about a woman who does not want to get married being chased down by a man who just really wants to have sex with her until she turns herself into a tree. And there’s definitely an air of blaming her for beauty here: the line “but that beauty forbids you to be that which you wish, and your form [beauty] opposes your desire” is fucked up and sad, as well as the ending “destroy by changing my beauty by which I please too much”. The best thing that can be said about this is that the line “let your bow strike everything, oh Phoebus, but let my bow strike you” is so satisfying. Jupiter & Io, 1.583-746 I absolutely hate this story. This is the one where I decided that he needs to avoid the women-being-chased and-maybe-raped but-I-will-mention-this-with-exactly-one-word thing (“rapuit”). In a situation even more egregious than that of Daphne and Apollo, she is given no character development whatsoever and the general story just angers me, up until around line 630, where she attempts to talk to her father Inachus: “She came to the riverbanks, where she was accustomed to play often, and when she saw in the water, her new horns, she grew frightened and fled having been terrified of herself” — the repetition of the riverbanks here is especially arresting. I did find this line sort of satisfying:“...It is cruel to surrender his love, but suspicious not to give; it is shame, what would urge him from that, Amor dissuades this. Shame would would have been conquered by Love, but if this trivial gift were refused to the companion of his race and bed as a heifer, it would be able to appear to be no heifer.” (617-621) The Ride of Phaethon, 2.150-339 This one is wonderful. I really enjoyed the figurative language and dramatic, ironic setup of this story: the horses hit the doors with their feet (155) and then snatch the path (158). The chariot being shaken on high (166) is a great detail, and the journey into the rapidly-heating constellations is just incredible (and not just incredibly hard to translate). Lots of apostrophe and several rhetorical questions build this into a gorgeous story. I absolutely adored this set of lines: “I am bemoaning the lesser things: great cities destruct with their walls, / and with their peoples the fires [whole nations] / turn into ashes; and the forests along with the mountains burn” (214-216)This section was so good that I forgave it for meaning I had to learn almost 200 lines of translation in a month for a test. Me & my 96 on the test say hi!! Pyramus & Thisbe, 4.55-166 “Pyramus and Thisbe, the one the most handsome of youths, the other outstanding… that which they were not able to deny, equally they both burned with their minds captured.”Ah, Pyramus and Thisbe, the original tragic lovers. The only context I have seen this story appear in previously is Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, a version that is deeply comedic. But this story is, despite some stupidity in plot, so well written. “This flaw had been noted by no one through the long years… but what does love not detect?” Ovid asks; this love affair seems almost inevitable, deeply wrapped around fate and tragedy. “How difficult would it be, that you could allow us to be joined with whole bodies, or, if this is too-much, that you should open this wall for kisses to be given?” Of course, this story ends badly. And it is Pyramus’ fault. Thisbe is a bitch with common sense and did nothing wrong. The Fall of Icarus, 8.152-235 “The shame of the family had grown, and was exposing / the disgusting adultery of his mother by the novelty of the two-formed monster...”THE FALL OF ICARUS!! Okay this has always been one of my favorite stories of all time, and reading it in Ovid’s original Latin was such a cool experience. This story is framed by a description and depiction of the tragedy of the minotaur and the abandonment of poor Ariadne (#Catulluspoem64). I loved Daedalus' intro for his plan: “it is permitted that he block the land and sea / but certainly the sky lies open; we will go that way...” And the fall of Icarus is equally emotional, beautifully conveyed through the image of a herder and fisherman watching him, up to its ending: “and his lips, shouting out the name of his father / are taken up by the blue water, water which has taken up its name from him.”Anyway, I hope y’all appreciated my original Latin translation skills pouring into this review. I SPEND A LOT OF TIME THINKING ABOUT LATIN AND I'M HONESTLY SO PROUD TO BE SHARING IT.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
1637865	Sex, violence, and humor are often painted as low and primitive: the signs of a failing culture. Yet it is only in cultures with a strong economy and a substantial underclass that such practices can rise from duty to pastime. As Knox's introduction reminds us, Ovid's time was one of pervasive divorce, permissive laws, and open adultery, and our humble author participated in all of them.Eventually, the grand tyrant closed his fist over the upper classes, exerting social controls and invoking the moral standard of an imagined 'golden age' in order to snatch power and discredit his rivals. Though already a popular and influential author and speaker, Ovid was exiled for being wanton and clever--either one he could have gotten away with, but both was too much.Both he and Virgil were sent to the extremities of the empire by Augustus, and both wrote epics to equal Homer's. While Virgil's was a capitulation to the emperor, honoring his fictitious lineage and equating heroism with duty, Ovid's was a sly, labyrinthine re-imagining of classic tales, drawing equally on the gold of Olympus' brow and the muck between a harlot's toes.Ovid remained more coy about his dirt than Apuleius or Seneca, maintaining plausible deniability with irony and entendre throughout the complex work. Every view, vision, and opinion is put forth at some point, and very rarely are they played straight. Ovid's characters are remarkable creations, each one a subversion of the familiar legend that surrounds them. Of course, by this point many of us are more familiar with Ovid's versions than the ones he was making light of.Virgil inspired the proud, righteous men of words: Dante, Tasso, Milton. Ovid created a style for the tricksters and the conflicted: Petrarch, Donne, Shakespeare, Ariosto, Rabelais. Each of Ovid's myths was a discrete vision, not only by plot, but by theme. His tales were not simply presentations of ideas, but explorations that turned back on themselves over and over.The metaphysical poets would come to adopt this style, creating short works that explored themes, even ritualizing the idea's reversal in the sonnet's volta. The active, visual nature of Ovid was a progression from the extended metaphors of the philosophers to what could be called a true conceit: a symbolic representation at once supportive of and in conflict with the idea it bears.Each of Ovid's tales flows, one into the next, building meaning by relations, counterpoints, repetition, and structure. Each small part builds into a grander whole. Just as all the sundry stories become a mythology, the many symbolic arguments become a philosophy.Instead of the Virgilian heroic mode, where one man wins, thereby vindicating his philosophy, Ovid shows a hundred victories and losses, creating an aggregate meaning. Virgil was writing of what he thought one man should be: loyal, pious, righteous, strong, noble. Ovid was more interested in asking what it is possible for a man to be--what are the limits of the mind?The Greek myths are an attempt to understand the mind, to observe what we do and create types, to develop a system for understanding man. In collecting these various tales, Ovid was creating the first psychological diagnostic manual, of which the DSM is the modern child. The Greeks invented everything, after all, and here, a few thousand years before Freud, is a remarkably coherent and accurate picture of the mind and its disorders.Freud did little more than reintroduce the Greek system, which is why his theories--the Psyche, the Oedipus Conflict, Narcissism--are drawn directly from that source. Of course, to any student of literature, it's clear that this is how the terms have always been used. All the great works alluded to these Greek ideas because this was the central collection of knowledge about the mind, a set of terms, phrases, and examples which formed the basis of any discussion of the mind.Indeed, the Greeks were much better at it than Freud was--he even screwed up the Oedipal Theory, the thing he's best known for, despite the fact that the Greeks had it right from the very beginning.Freud's patients, being middle-class Europeans, were raised by nannies and nursemaids until they were of age, and had fairly little interaction with their parents. Human beings imprint on people who we are around a great deal before about age six as 'family', and therefore, out of bounds sexually. Since his patients were not around their parents much before this age, they did not imprint correctly. Now: what's the first thing that happens to Oedipus in the story? That's right, he's taken away from his parents and raised elsewhere. Cause, disorder, symptom--it was all right there, and Freud still missed it.So, Ovid was indeed tackling a grand theme in his tales: the mapping of the human mind as it was known to Greece and Rome. That isn't to say that there isn't depth and conflict between characters and ideas in Virgil, but his centralized, political theme deprived him of the freedom to move from one idea to the next, as Ovid did.This lack of freedom is a boon for most authors: structure gives tangible boundaries and tools with which to create. With no boundaries, the author has no place to start, and no markers to guide his path.Imagine a man is given all the parts to a lawnmower. His chances of building a lawnmower are pretty high--but that's all he can do. Now give the same man all the uncut materials and tools in a shop. He could build a lawnmower, or nearly any other machine, but it's going to take a lot of doing. That kind of freedom--real freedom--tends to paralyze most people.Likewise, it's easier to write good poetry when the rhyme scheme, scansion, and meter are pre-determined than to create a beauty and flow in blank verse. Yet Ovid deconstructed his stories, starting and stopping them between books and moving always back and forth. He provided himself with absolute freedom, but maintained his flow and progression, even without the crutches of tradition.While his irony and satire are the clearest signs of his remarkable mind, the most impressive is probably this: that he flaunted tradition, style, and form, but never faltered in his grand work.Virgil knew what he did when he attached himself to Augustus' train; likewise Ovid recognized how his simultaneous praise and subversion of Augustus' legacy would play: none could openly accuse him of treason, but anyone with a solid mind would see the dangerous game Ovid played with his king and patron.He did not shy from critiquing Augustus even as he wrote for him, for his nation, and for history. Ovid's parting shot is the famous assertion that as long as Rome's name is spoken aloud, so will be Ovid's. This has been echoed since by Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Milton, so that what Ovid realized we would never doubt today.Even banished to the wilderness, out of favor, the only way to silence the artist is to kill him, and this must be done long before he has an audience. Augustus got his month, but his empire fell. Ovid's empire grows by books and minds each year, and its capital is still The Metamorphoses.I researched long trying to decide on a translation. Though there are many competent versions out there, I chose Martin's. I recall seeing the cover and coveting it, but distrusting the unknown translation. Imagine my surprise when my research turned up my whim.I enjoyed Martin's translation for the same reason I appreciate Fagles': the vibrancy, wit, and drive of the language. Both are poetic, exciting, risk-taking--but also knowledgeable and deliberate. Every translation is a new work of art, all its own, and I respect translators who don't pretend otherwise.The translators of the fifties were more staunchly academic, capturing meaning and precision, but in enshrining the classics, they fail to take the sorts of risks that make a work bold and artful. Contrarily, the early translators, like Pope, recreated the work in their own vernacular--not merely as a translation, but as a completely new vision, as Shakespeare's plays are to Plutarch's Lives.Martin (and Fagles) take the more modern approach, championed by the literary style of T.S. Eliot and James Joyce, whose works are solidly grounded in their tradition, deliberately and knowledgeably drawn, but with the verve and novelty of the iconoclast. There is something particularly fitting in this, since Ovid himself was an iconoclast who mixed formalized tradition with subversion and irony.Martin proved himself utterly fearless in the altercation between the Pierides and the Muses: he styles their competing songs as a poetry jam, drawing on the vocal forms of rap music. I must admit I was shocked at first, and unable to reconcile, but as I kept reading, I came to realize that it was not my place to question.Translation is the adaptation of one style to another, one word or phrase or invocation to something more familiar. In his desire to capture the competition and skill of song in these early contests, he drew on what may be the only recognizable parallel to modern man. What is remarkable is not how different the two styles are, but how similar.It is comical, it is a bit absurd, but so was the original--and in any case, he is altering the original purpose less than Pope, who translated all of the poetry into anachronism. I never thought I would prefer a translation of Ovid which contained the word 'homie', but if Martin can be true enough to the poetry to write it, I must be brave enough to laud it. I still laugh, but only because Martin has revealed to me something of the impossibility and oddity inherent to translation. This certainly isn't your grandfather's Ovid, but then, your grandfather's Ovid wasn't the real one, either.I also appreciated Knox's introduction in both Martin's and Fagle's work, though Knox's Homeric background is stronger. I found the end-notes insightful and useful, though they are never quite numerous enough to suit me--but such is the nature of reading a work in translation.
7054496407	Perhaps the single greatest contribution feminist scholarship has made to human knowledge is accuracy. Before the mid-20th century, the vast majority of scholars and writers were men who viewed the past through a distinctly masculine lens, then articulated that lens as the absence of gender—a masculine universal. This profoundly distorted their understanding of the world. By taking gender and sexuality as both subject and tool of analysis, feminist scholarship has made possible a far more rigorous and accurate accounting of the past, of literature, of reality. So it should come as no surprise that the foremost contribution Stephanie McCarter touts in the introduction and translator’s note to her explicitly feminist new translation of Ovid’s Metamorphoses is its accuracy. Of course, being unversed in Latin, I sort of have to take her word for it. McCarter notes that her translation is 12,971 lines, compared to Ovid’s 11,995. Other English verse translations have tended to run far longer, topping off at Allen Mandelbaum’s 17,928. According to McCarter, in trying to capture the nuance and poetry of Ovid’s words in English, past translators added adjectives that sexualized and feminized Ovid’s women, goddesses, and nymphs—many of whom in fact explicitly eschew femininity and sex. A word McCarter translates simply as “lips” becomes, for one translator, “teasingly tempting lips,” for another a “darling little mouth” (xxxv)—and suddenly we’re starting to see where all those extra lines are coming from. At the same time, male translators and scholars have euphemized rape. Metamorphoses, McCarter observes, contains around 50 incidents of rape or attempted rape. Translators have used words like “ravish” or “plunder,” when in fact “the specific language Ovid employs to designate rape is consistent with Roman legal terms denoting forced sexual penetration” (xxiv). For McCarter, closer attention to Ovid’s themes of sexual violence, women’s agency and disempowerment, and gender and the body, produces a more accurate translation, even as producing a more accurate translation brings forward those themes.McCarter is a scholar first, a poet second. I happen to have that 17,928 line Mandelbaum translation on my shelf, and at first glance, Mandelbaum—a poet—looks like, well, the better poet. Mandelbaum’s line is more graceful, his choice of words more considered, his use of meter more artful. But I’ll tell you, when you’ve been racing through McCarter’s concise, forward-moving translation, trying to read one of Ovid’s stories in Mandelbaum just feels tiresome. Line by line, McCarter may not be much of a poet, but the overall effect her verse produces is extraordinarily powerful. If Mandelbaum’s iambic pentameter is aiming for Shakespeare—artful, nimble, sophisticated—McCarter’s verse is more Kit Marlowe—less virtuoso, perhaps, but incredibly powerful in the overall effect it produces.So much for my (grossly underinformed) review of McCarter’s translation. What about Ovid’s poem? (Of course, I haven’t really read Ovid’s poem. It may make sense, with prose, to speak of an English translation and its foreign original as the same piece of writing. To translate a poem is to write a new poem. However accurate the meaning, poetry is meaning and form, and form doesn’t translate.) I read Metamorphoses because of my sense that it is a foundational text in just about any articulation of a queer literary canon. I was not in the least disappointed. This is a very queer poem—even (perhaps especially) when it is dealing with themes of sexual violence. It is also stunningly beautiful.Iphis’s transformation from a boy into a girl so that she—he—could marry her—his—beloved Ianthe. How many years before literature gave us another such queer wedding?Cyparissus’s love for the stag.Pythagoras’s glorious exegesis of a universe defined by ceaseless change and transformation, embedded within a fierce defense of, of all things, vegetarianism! And is it possible to imagine a more enigmatic and human expression of the pain of grief than Orpheus’s famous journey to the underworld?They weren’t far from the surface of the earthwhen, scared that she might falter and intenton seeing her, the lover turned his eyes.She slipped back instantly. The wretch reached out,attempting both to catch and to be caught,but only grabbed thin air. The wife, now dyingagain, made no complaint about her husband,for what could she complain about exceptthat she was loved?The poem is filled with thousands of references to Greek and Roman history, mythology, and literature that I barely understood or didn’t catch at all. McCarter’s end notes are concise and useful, but even without the notes, I think it was ultimately a source of wonder, rather than frustration, that this poem comes to me from a world simultaneously so alien and unfamiliar, and so intimately known that it is almost remembered—all those told and retold myths I have read, heard, seen since I was a small child.
264517601	To read this in English is to not have read it. The few Latin verses I could read and understand were more pleasurable than all the wonderful myths and twisted fates. The verses take the form of what it describes, they flow or pause or rear up along with its subject. The translation feels beautiful at those rare times when I can call to mind some of the great works of art inspired by those artists who loved and lived these verses. No statues were made by artists inspired by translations.
7228170040	ماجرای باورنکردنی دختری که به قرآن بی‌احترامی کرد + عکس... بعضی چیزها دقیقن برای این ساخته شده‌اند که در بچگی (عامدانه) به مغز آدم فرو شوند و تا آخر عمر همانجا بمانند. مثل همین داستان که مربوط به بیست سال پیش است و زمانی که برای وصل شدن به اینترنت کارت لازم بود. دختری که نه فقط صدای آهنگش را موقع قرآن خواندن مادرش بالا برده بود، که در واکنش به اعتراض مادرش قرآن را پاره کرده بود و بعد خودش آتش گرفته بود و شده بود اسمیگل. در هر صورت برای اینکه بدقول نشوم عکسش را می‌گذارم که قدر عصر اطلاعات را بدانیم و یادمان بیاید والدین از چه ابزارهای نرمی برای تربیت فرزند مطیع استفاده می‌کردند. [اصل قضیه برمی‌گردد به نمایشگاه یک هنرمند استرالیایی به اسم پاتریشیا پیچینینی و حیوانات عجیب‌الخلقه‌اش.]اما راستش این را گفتم که بگویم دگردیسی چه توانایی غریبی برای اعمال قدرت دارد، و نه روی کسی که مسخ می‌شود —که او کارش از کار گذشته—بلکه برای کسی که داستان دگردیسی را می‌شنود. یک بار دست از پا خطا کن تا ببینی حس زندگی با بدن خوک و میمون چیست، یا بدتر، بی‌حسی ابدی در قالب ستونی سنگی. [نگاه کنید به نمونه‌ی اصحاب سبت در قرآن (اعراف ۱۶۳-۱۶۶) و همسر لوط در کتاب مقدس (باب ۱۹ سفر پیدایش).]بترسان و سرگرمم کندگردیسی‌های اوید چه‌جور کتابی‌ست؟ کتابی که هم حماسه است و تغزل و تراژدی و چیزهای دیگر، هم هیچ کدام از اینها. اوید شاعری چیره‌دست در قرن اول قبل از میلاد بوده –همسن پدر احتمالی مسیح— که عاشقانه‌هایش بسیار محبوب و مشهور بوده‌اند، اما جایی تصمیم می‌گیرد که تاریخ جهان را، از آفرینش تا عهد خودش بنویسد. نه مثل خدازایی/تئوگونیِ هزیود که سراسر اسطوره‌ است و انسان و تاریخ را فراموش می‌کند و نه مثل تورات که روایتی کمابیش یکدست و خدایی یگانه و سخت‌گیر دارد. روایت اوید تکه‌تکه و در نوسان است؛ بین خدا و انسان، بین قبرس و کرت، یا بین توفان بزرگ و ترور ژولیوس سزار. چطور می‌شود چنین روایتی پروصله‌پینه‌ای ساخت؟ با تکیه بر یک مضمون مشترک: دگردیسی. در دنیای اوید هیچ چیز ثابتی وجود ندارد. آدم به گوزن تبدیل می‌شود و مورچه به آدم، خدا به شکل گاو درمی‌آید و قهرمان میرا پس از مرگ خدا می‌شود. به عقیده‌ی اوید کلید فهم همه‌ی تاریخ همین است: تغییر. تغییر به بهانه‌های مختلف روی می‌دهد. یک دلیلش همان است که بالاتر گفتم یعنی مجازاتی برای به چالش کشیدن خدا، آنهم خدایان دمدمی‌مزاجی مثل خدایان رومی. اما برخلاف نمونه‌های مذهبی که هدفشان هشدار دادن است، اوید هیچ تمایلی ندارد که مخاطبش را بترساند. به همین خاطر است که تغییر در بسیاری از موارد نجات‌بخش است (از تجاوز خدایی دیگر یا خودکشی) یا پاداشی برای قهرمانی چون هرکول یا مِمنون. و در بعضی موارد هم اصلن دگردیسی برای کسی اتفاق می‌افتد که اتفاقی در زمان بد در جای بد بوده! جایی بین ادبیات و فلسفه و دور از دینتقدیر پروردگار، اراده‌ی معطوف به قدرت، معنازایی در جهانی بی‌معنا، ماتریالیسم دیالکتیک، یا نسبیت خاص و مکانیک کوانتومی؟ نخ تسبیحی که همه چیز را به‌هم پیوند می‌دهد کدام است؟ فرض بر این است که اگر پاسخی هم برای این تلاش توقف‌ناپذیر آدمی بیابیم، لابد در قدرت ایمان است یا تیزبینی فلسفه و روان‌شناسی، یا ابطال‌پذیری علوم اعصاب و فیزیک محض، اما نه ادبیات، که با وجود همه‌ی تراژدی‌ها، کمدی‌ها، حماسه‌ها و عاشقانه‌هایش که مرزهای زبانی، زمانی و مکانی را پشت سر می‌گذارند، به‌ویژه در قرن‌‌های اخیر، کم‌ادعاتر از اینهاست که بخواهد برای کیهان نسخه بپیچد. [البته که بزرگ‌ترین نسخه‌پیچ‌های تاریخ بشر یعنی متون دینی هم جنبه‌ی ادبی مهمی‌ دارند، اما منظور من ادبیاتی‌ست که به‌درجات مختلفی خودش را از یک حضور مطلق ازلی و ابدی و همه‌بین و همه‌دان و همه‌توان جدا می‌کند.]فیثاغورس که اعتقادی راسخ به روح داشت می‌گفت گیاه بخورید به‌جای گوشت، چون روح نامیراست و مدام از جسمی به جسم دیگر منتقل می‌شود. چطور می‌توانید مطمئن باشید که در گوسفندی که کباب می‌کنید روح برادر مرحومتان حلول نکرده؟ هراکلیتوس را هم بر این عقیده بوده جهان در عین یگانگی (چه نامش را خدا بگذاریم چه آتش) در جریانی مدام قرار دارد. چیزها، دست کم در ظاهر، همیشه سیالند. نمی‌توان دوبار وارد یک رودخانه شد، چون آبی پایت را داخلش می‌گذاری همانی نیست که یک لحظه پیش بوده. یک جور کثرت اندر وحدت و وحدت اندر کثرت که در فلسفه‌ی شرقی هم برجسته‌ست، گرچه به صورت‌بندی‌ دیگر و با تفاوت‌های بسیار. نوع بدبینانه‌ترش را هم می‌توان در نمونه‌های پرشمار اشعار فارسی دید:خیمهٖٔ انس مزن بر در این کهنه رباطکه اساسش همه بی موقع و بی بنیادستاوید فیلسوف نیست، اما وقتی در انتهای کتابش فیثاغورس را وارد داستان می‌کند تا حرف‌هایی این‌چنینی بزند معلوم است که نیم‌نگاهی هم به متافیزیک دارد. با این همه، مهم‌تر از هر دیدگاه فلسفی برای او نفس قصه‌گویی‌ست، به دیداری‌ترین و این‌جهانی‌ترین شکل ممکن. با توصیف بدن‌های مثله‌شده، عشق‌های ممنوعه و جنگل‌های خطرناک و دلفریب یا با بازگوکردن شکنجه‌ی ذهنی دختری که عاشق پدرش شده یا مردی که به همسرش مظنون است. همین حسّانی بودن اثر است که باعث شده اقتباس‌های بی‌شماری در نقاشی، مجمسمه‌سازی و موسیقی از آن وجود داشته باشد. و همه‌ی اینها با کمترین میزان احترام به خدایانی که نه فقط غیر قابل اعتماد، که دزد و قاتل‌اند و البته هم گاهی آنطور که از یک خدای نیمه‌وقت انتظار می‌رود جزا و پاداش می‌دهند. ناکجایی بین ادبیات و زیست‌شناسیاینکه نام علمی گونه‌هایی مثل کبک، قو، نرگس و شقایق از اساطیر یونانی-رومی و به‌طور ویژه از این کتاب درآمده‌اند هم حکاکیت جالبی‌ست. در جهان کتاب ممکن است عضوی از خانواده یا معشوق در کنارت باشد و حتا تو را ببیند یا درد را حس کند، اما جز صدایی نامفهوم از او نشنوی —تازه اگر خوش‌شانس باشی و تبدیل به درخت نشده باشد. برای اوید پیوند بین انسان و سایر موجودات زنده و حتا جمادات، فراتر از یک رابطه‌ی ابزاری و سروری‌ست. در دنیای دگردیسی‌ها مرزها کمرنگ‌اند. مرد و زن به یکدیگر تبدیل می‌شوند و خواهر افسوس دنیای حیواناتی را می‌خورد که در آن عشق به برادر ممنوع نیست. سنتیِ پست‌مدرنقضاوت نویسنده‌ی دو هزار سال پیش با معیار امروزی درست نیست. بله، اما شاید بشود اوید را اولین کلاژساز مهم دنیای ادبیات دید. جان‌مایه کار او هر آن چیزی‌ست که پیشتر گفته شده: حماسه‌های هومر و ویرژیل و آپولودوروس، تراژدی‌های سوفوکلس و اوریپیدس، و تعداد بسیار زیادی داستان‌های پراکنده‌ی کوتاه از اساطیر یونانی و رومی و حتا مصری. یکی از مفصل‌ترین شرح‌های غیردینی از توفان بزرگ را اینجا داریم (که البته به جای نوح این دوکالیون است که کشتی می‌سازد). سوال این است که وقتی همه چیز را قبلن گفته‌اند دیگر چه چیزی برای گفتن مانده؟ خیلی چیزها. مثلن چرا قصه‌ای درباره‌ی آن یارویی نسازیم که در ادیسه یک جمله گفته و بعد مرده یا آن یاروی دیگری که در ایلیاد از کنار آشیل رد می‌شده؟ [اسپین‌آف اینگونه خلق می‌شود.] یا چرا یک داستان دو خطی از یک دگردیسی که در یک دایرة‌المعارف آمده را سه صفحه بسط ندهیم و به‌شکلی بی‌سابقه وصلش نکنیم به داستان هرکول؟ اوید استاد این کارهاست. می‌داند که خواننده‌اش چه چیزهایی را خوانده و دقیقن روی همانجایی دست می‌گذارد که اسطوره خالی‌اش گذاشته. اینها را بگذارید کنار ساختار داستان در داستان، عوض شدن راوی‌ها و زاویه‌ی دید و حتا اشکالی ابتدایی از راوی نامطمئن تا ببینید با یک نقال معمولی طرف نیستید. دگردیسی پایانیکتاب یک موخره‌ی کوتاه دارد که در زمان خودش کم‌سابقه بوده. اوید بعد از روایت کردن جاودانه شدن بنیان‌گذاران اسطوره‌ای و حقیقی امپراتوری روم، از جاودانگی خودش می‌گوید. اما نه به واسطه‌ی خواست خدا، که به‌خاطر همین شعر. هنرمند به اثرش تبدیل می‌شود و این عمیق‌ترین شکل دگردیسی خواهد بود.پ.ن. خوانده‌شده از ترجمه‌ی روان و زیبای انگلیسی دیوید ریبرنپ.پ.ن. با تشکر زیاد از همخوانی‌های عزیز
570764017	I read this for one of those bucket-list reasons, having read a bunch of scholarly articles in college that constantly quote from Ovid... but I had NEVER READ THE ORIGINAL.Alas. How many years has it been, with that guilt slowly creeping up on me?So I did it. I read Ovid. And I fell in love. What the hell was I thinking? Avoiding this? I mean, how many damn mythology books have I read that go on and on about all the Greek classics, touted for their clear and concise styles, but really what I should have been doing is read the damn book of prose/poetry by the first-century master! Even in translation, it's clear, entertaining, full of action and wit and subversiveness and plain JOY. And get this: it's not much longer than those full mythology books. SO SILLY! Enjoy the ART! The action! The joy of beautiful text! We even get poetical treatments of segments of the Illiad and Odyssey! But my favorites were Orpheus and the whole damn slew of the poor mortals getting f***ed over by the gods. :)Granted, if you're not already familiar with the kind of name-dropping that comes with a world that normally knowns all these legends, it might seem rather overwhelming, but for all of you who've read at least one book on the Greeks and are tolerant of learning on the fly, I TOTALLY recommend Ovid.I fairly danced with fun as I read this. I felt like I was watching the original Clash of the Titans for the first time. This had some really bloody sequences! The funny ones and the clever ones and even the LGBTQ ones are spread throughout, too! :) I'm frankly amazed we don't just have THIS to read in school. It's much better than most!lol *shakes head*
1416334971	Metamorphosis is fundamental to existence. As children, we are fascinated by the transformation of caterpillar to buttefly, or of tadpole to frog; it is the same individual creature, with the same life-force motivating it, but at the same time its physical nature is fundamentally changed. And it was the brilliant conceit of the Roman poet Ovid to center his collection of stories from classical mythology around the theme of metamorphosis. In doing so, Ovid made his Metamorphoses the most complete and comprehensive collection of Greek and Roman mythological tales ever set down.Publius Ovidius Naso stands with Virgil among the greatest poets that Rome ever produced – though his father wanted him to be a lawyer. He had a gift for exposing human frailty, and wrote with a certain indulgent tolerance for human imperfection, particularly with regard to sins of the flesh; his most famous work before The Metamorphoses was Ars Amatoria or The Art of Love (2 A.D.) – an unblushingly frank guide to love, sex, and relationships, and a work that is said to have offended no less a reader than the emperor Augustus Caesar. But an undaunted Ovid carried on, and published The Metamorphoses in 8 A.D. It remains the book for which this great poet is best remembered.An account of creation is followed by a series of stories that flow into and out of one another – many of them centering around themes and events of metamorphosis. Often, these stories show the Olympian gods as cruel and fickle, as when the hunter Actaeon unfortunately, and unintentionally, surprises the virgin goddess Diana at her bath. Diana spitefully tells Actaeon, “Now you may tell the story of seeing Diana naked – if storytelling is in your power!” and then sprinkles him with drops of her bathwater. At once,The head she had sprinkled sprouted the horns of a lusty stag;The neck expanded, the ears were narrowed to pointed tips;She changed his hands into hooves and his arms into long and slenderForelegs; she covered his frame in a pelt of dappled buckskin;Last, she injected panic. The son of Autonoë bolted,Surprising himself with his speed as he bounded away from the clearing.But when he came to a pool and set eyes on his head and antlers,“Oh, dear god!” he was going to say; but no words followed.All the sound he produced was a moan, as the tears streamed overHis strange new face. It was only his feelings that stayed unchanged. (p. 102)Note the extra touch of horror – that Actaeon retains his human consciousness once he has been transformed into a stag, looking just like the deer that he once hunted, but unable to express himself in human language. And that is before Actaeon suffers the horrible fate of being torn to pieces by his own hounds!I took this copy of The Metamorphoses with me on a trip to Crete; and when I saw Knossos Palace, the site whose winding subterranean passages and dedication to a bull cult are thought to have inspired the mythological tales of the Labyrinth in which the half-man, half-bull Minotaur was hidden, I thought at once of Ovid’s description of the Labyrinth:The labyrinth…was built by an eminent master-craftsman,Daedalus, who had obscured all guiding marks and designed itTo cheat the eye with bewildering patterns of tortuous alleys.Just as the Phrygian river Maeander sports and plays…So Daedalus’ warren of passagesWandered this way and that. In such a treacherous mazeIts very designer could scarcely retrace his steps to the entrance. (pp. 301-02)Imprisoned with his son Icarus inside the Labyrinth that he had himself designed, Daedalus famously plans to escape via wings made of wax covered in feathers – itself a sort of temporary metamorphosis from human into bird. But once the two have made their escape, and have flown all the way to the Aegean island of Samos, Icarus, caught up in the exaltation of the moment, forgets his father’s advice to steer a rational middle course between sea and sky:[A]ll this adventurous flying went to Icarus’ head.He ceased to follow his leader; he’d fallen in love with the sky,And soared up higher and higher. The scorching rays of the sunGrew closer and softened the fragrant wax which fastened his plumage.The wax dissolved; and as Icarus flapped his naked arms,Deprived of the wings which had caught the air that was buoying them upwards,“Father!” he shouted, again and again. But the boy and his shoutingWere drowned in the blue-green main which is called the Icarian Sea. (p. 305)Icarus’ folly brings about a most unwelcome metamorphosis; his temporary birds’ wings are lost, and, restored to fully human status, he falls to his doom.A reading of Ovid’s Metamorphoses also does much to show that the classical myths that modern readers might experience in isolation were in fact interrelated – as when, in a series of poems sung by the great poet and musician Orpheus, the not-so-well-known story of Myrrha leads into the very well-known story of Venus and Adonis. As Ovid’s Orpheus tells it, Myrrha, a princess of Cyprus, harbours incestuous feelings toward her father Cinyras, the Cypriot king. This situation at once brings up a paradox: since feelings of love are caused by Venus and her son Cupid, cannot these deities be blamed for Myrrha’s unhealthy obsession? Ovid tries to clear the gods of culpability for Myrrha’s incestuous longings – “Cupid himself denies that his arrows/Were Myrrha’s downfall and clears his torches of such an indictment” (p. 397) – but his denials hold little force. Who, in the Olympian religious system, causes human beings to feel desire – or other emotions, right or wrong – if not the Olympian gods?That philosophical conundrum is never unresolved. Myrrha eventually becomes the mother of Adonis, and the handsome young man attracts the notice of Venus just as, in a fateful moment, Cupid “unwittingly grazed her breast with the tip of an arrow” (p. 408). Venus falls immediately and completely in love with Adonis. Sometime later, Adonis, an avid hunter, prepares to go out on a hunt, and a worried Venus desperately asks Adonis to “Take no risks, dear lover, at my expense, or allow yourself to provoke what is well provided with weapons by nature” (p. 409). The reader at once senses that Adonis’ day on the hunt will not end well. Ovid, through Orpheus, sums up the whole sad situation by writing that Adonis’ good looks were “enough to attract even Venus and so to avenge the passionate/Love which had ruined Myrrha” (p. 408). Even the gods, it seems, are subject to the dictates of fate.At other times, The Metamorphoses provides a valuable window into Roman culture. Once Ovid is finished chronicling the story of the Trojan War – from the Trojan point of view, since the Romans regarded themselves as the descendants and heirs of Troy and its traditions – Book 13 begins with a depiction of “The Judgement of Arms,” when Ajax and Ulysses both put forward their respective claims for the armour of the slain Achilles. Both Ajax and Ulysses, as they set forth their arguments, sound very much as though they could be opposing attorneys, holding forth in a Roman courtroom.Ajax’s arguments are straightforward and forceful, befitting his personality. He states that when Hector and his Trojans tried to burn the Greek ships at the seaside, “I, with my manly body, protected the thousand ships,/your hopes of return”, and rhetorically asks, “Where now was the brilliant speaker, Ulysses?” (p. 501). Ulysses’ argument, unsurprisingly, is more subtle; he points out that when Agamemnon, deceived by a dream, called for the Greeks to abandon the siege of Troy, it was Ulysses who prevented the Greeks from giving up the battle: “I saw you, Ajax, to my great shame, when you ran for your life/And issued those shameful orders to spread the sails of your ship” (p. 507).As mentioned above, the exchange has a decided courtroom quality to it; and other readers might be reminded of the freestyle rap battles between Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton in Lin-Manuel Miranda’s musical Hamilton (2015). Either way, no one should be surprised when Ulysses wins the verbal contest over Achilles’ arms, or when an angry Ajax is propelled along the path toward his own ignominious self-destruction.Toward the end of The Metamorphoses, Ovid invokes the theories of the Greek philosopher Pythagoras to set forth his idea that life itself always and inevitably involves metamorphosis, suggesting that “Any shape that is formed is constantly shifting” (p. 602), and adding that “Nothing retains its original form, but Nature, the goddess/Of all renewal, keeps altering one shape into another” (p. 606). The progression of the seasons, the course of a day, and the cycle of human life all proclaim, for Ovid, that existence itself is metamorphosis.The year 8 A.D. saw both triumph and tragedy for Ovid. On the one hand, The Metamorphoses was published, adding to his already considerable fame and renown as a poet; on the other hand, in the same year he was exiled, by personal order of the emperor Augustus Caesar – for reasons that remain unknown – to the remote city-state of Tomis, on the Black Sea in the province of Dacia. There, in what he would no doubt have regarded as a “barbarian” backwater (but is now the perfectly lovely seaside city of Constanța in Romania), Ovid continued writing his poetry, and sought desperately to have his exile recalled, so that he could rejoin his beloved wife and daughter and return to his city of Rome. That permission was never granted, even after the death of Augustus, and Ovid died a lonely death in a faraway place in 17 or 18 A.D.Yet notwithstanding the unhappy changes of fortune that characterized his last years. Ovid left us the most complete, and most perfectly interrelated, collection of Olympian mythology that any classical writer ever produced. To read The Metamorphoses is to be plunged into a world of capricious deities, heroic men and women, and hideous creatures. The tales move seamlessly back and forth between the humorous and the horrific, and their power to ensnare and fascinate is just as great now as it was 2,000 years ago. Read The Metamorphoses, and you will be changed by it.
2730741624	I read this about two months after my second stay in Rome in 2019, so sadly never had the book itself in the city. The city though, was of course, on my mind, throughout. The Metamorphoses is an 8 AD Latin narrative poem which consists of 11,995 lines, 15 books and over 250 myths. It is known as one of the most influential works in Western Literature, influencing the likes of Dante, Shakespeare, Chaucer. It is accredited with having over 200 characters. My edition stands at over 700 pages long. Elements from the poem have been depicted throughout art forms for centuries. On a beach in St Ives, Cornwall, one year, I read Ted Hughes' Tales From Ovid, his brilliant retelling of twenty-four of the tales. (For a taster of the myths, it is certainly a good place to start, at only 250 pages.)Most of the myths are familiar: Apollo and Daphne, Narcissus and Echo, the Rape of Proserpina, Arachne - Niobe, Medea and Jason, Theseus and Aegeus, Scylla and Minos, the Minotaur, Daedalus and Icarus, Hercules, Venus and Adonis, Orpheus and Eurydice, Midas, the Death of Achilles, the Ships of Aeneas, Ajax, the Fall of Troy, Ulysses and Circe, and countless more. It ends with the apotheosis of Julius Caesar. The short prologue reads, and distinguishes the theme of the entire poem: Changes of shape, new forms, are the theme which my spirit impels menow to recite. Inspire me, O gods (it is you who have even transformed my art), and spin me a thread from theworld's beginningdown to my own lifetime, in one continuous poem. Ovid says so himself; the art of transformation is the crux of this giant work. And it is true, we witness the Gods turning men into animals, stones, constellations. It is about love; it is violent; it is also witty, Ovid does not write without humour at times. I remember to this day the humour spinning from the absurdity of some of the events, made absurd by Ovid, who is always seemingly self-aware. At the end of "The Creation" in Book 1, from line 84, the first mention of a metamorphosis occurs, that of man: Where other animals walk on all four and look to the ground, man was given a towering head and commanded to stand erect, with his face uplifted to gaze on the stars of heaven.Thus clay, so lately no more than a crude and formless substance, was metamorphosed to assume the strange new figure of Man. Where Ovid calls Man "strange", Hughes, to compare, likens us to Gods: Then Prometheus Gathered that fiery dust and slaked itWith the pure spring water,And rolled it under his hands,Pounded it, thumbed it, moulded itInto a body shaped like that of a god. "The Untangling of Chaos, or the Creation of the Four Elements", Hendrik Goltzius—1589The gods are mischievous throughout. At times their actions seemed completely unprovoked, uncalled for, at other times, they were cruelly fair. Over the 250 myths we see gods and men fight, gods and gods fight, men v. man, heroes against creatures and gods, we see almost everything pitted against one another. And despite the humour, there are poignant moments of feeling, beauty and emotion. Like in one of my many favourite passages in the poem, the fall of Icarus in Book 8: He ceased to follow his leader; he'd fallen in love with the sky, and soared up higher and higher. The scorching rays ofthe sungrew closer and softened the fragrant wax which fastened his plumage. The wax dissolved; and as Icarus flapped his naked arms, deprived of the wings which had caught the air that was buoying them upwards,'Father!' he shouted, again and again. But the boy and his shoutingwere drowned in the blue-green main which is called the Icárian Sea.His unhappy father, no longer a father, called out, 'Icarus!Where are you, Icarus? Where on earth shall I find you?Icarus!'he kept crying. And then he caught sight of the wings in the water. Daedalus cursed the skill of his hands and buried his dear son's corpse in a grave. The land where he lies is known as Icária. "Landscape with the Fall of Icarus", Pieter Bruegel the Elder—c. 1560 [Icarus' legs can be seen in the bottom right of the painting, protruding from the sea, surrounded by feathers.]Or, in Book 10, Orpheus leading Eurydice from the Underworld, which has always been one of my favourite myths; Ovid tells it hauntingly: Not far to go now; the exit to earth and the light was ahead!But Orpheus was frightened his love was falling behind;he was desperateto see her. He turned, and at once she sank back intothe dark.She stretched out her arms to him, struggled to feel his hands in her own,but all she was able to catch, poor soul, was the yielding air.And now, as she died for the second time, she nevercomplainedthat her husband had failed her—what could she complain of, except that he'd loved her?She only uttered her last 'farewell', so faintly he hardly could hear it, and then she was swept once more to the landof the shadows. And because I've somehow managed to avoid any of the metamorphoses in the book, the transformation of Daphne into a tree in Book 1: [...] She had hardly ended her prayer when a heavy numbness came over her body; her soft white bosom was ringed in a layerof bark, her hair was turned into foliage, her arms into branches. The feet that had run so nimbly were sunk into sluggishroots;her head was confined in a treetop; and all that remained was her beauty. "Apollo and Daphne", Gian Lorenzo Bernini—1622–1625[This is one of my favourite statues ever, life-sized and made from marble. It is housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome, which I have never seen. It is my priority, on my next trip to the city, to finally see the sculpture in person.]Ovid's report of Achilles' death is short and intriguing in Book 12: So saying, he pointed the hero out, still hacking the Trojansdown; then turning Paris' bow in the same directionhe guided an arrow with deadly aim at Achilles' heel. If Priam, after the death of Hector, had cause for rejoicing, this surely was it. So Achilles who'd vanquished the mightiest heroes was vanquished himself by a coward who'd stolen the wife of his Greek host. If he was destined to die at the hands of a woman in war,he'd rather be cut down by the axe of Penthesilea. (The most popular recent depiction of Achilles and the story of Troy is Madeline Miller's The Song of Achilles, which actually chooses to omit the concept of Achilles' heel as she used principally Homer's Iliad as her inspiration, where it is not mentioned as it is here in Ovid.)I could continue quoting elements of the poem forever. The myths are immortal, of course, and this new verse translation by Raeburn is stunning: it is fresh, readable, but maintains a beautiful poetic voice. Hughes' retellings are also brilliant and I recommend them. I read them after Ovid's original, which I preferred, though it is a long-haul. Any lovers of myth should flock here. Ovid is witty, profound and above all, genius. Of the Roman texts I've read, studying Classical Civilisation in college, this is still the greatest to date.
965796071	If we accept as true the idea that great literature can be read again and again and still yield new insight, then the ancient Greek and Roman myths might be the greatest writing of all. Read 'em for fun, read 'em for philosophy, read 'em from different schools of critical theory - they are gifts that keep on giving!Familiar stories, these myths are given new life through Charles Martin's excellent translation which is (take your pick) energetic, vivid, dramatic, cheeky, but above all: memorable. 5 stars.
7656153108	Whew! I am finally done with this group read. RTC, I hope.
5638463392	Every bird, animal, fountain, or object we see was once something else. In Ovid, they were all once people – in love, or grieving, or trying to escape from rape (see below) – who were transformed. It doesn’t take much for us to anthropomorphize. When I look at trees and their twisting branches, they seem emotional. But they’ll always be something else, and something else, and something else again.In 15 books, Ovid takes us from primordial chaos (“No shape was fixed”) through creation and recreation, to the future of Rome, and even further, into ever-shifting eternity.It is Pythagoras who gives a speech on metamorphosis in the final book. But first he makes some interesting comments on vegetarianism:“How wicked it is for guts to be entombed in guts” (what a way with words!)Pythagoras believes in reincarnation. If souls do not die, but move from post to post, then humans can also become animals; animals, humans. “Since we, part of this world, are not just bodies but also winged souls and can inhabit wild beasts and dwell inside the hearts of herds, let bodies be revered, unharmed. They might have held the souls of parents, siblings, others bonded to us”Ages change, so do places (sea to land, land to sea), so do nations, so will the Rome of Ovid’s time, and so will every empire we see today.“In all creation there is nothing constant. Everything flows. Each likeness forms in flux. Time too glides by in endless motion, like a river. Both the river and swift hour can never stop.”Finally, and there is no way around it: after metamorphosis, rape is probably the second most common theme in this poem. About 50 of the stories in this poem involve sexual assault. After reading so many chapters featuring the plotline, I could no longer keep track, and just came to assume that:If the character is attractive, they will likely get assaulted.If the character is a virgin, they will likely get assaulted.If the character is a woman, they will likely get assaulted.If it’s Tuesday, someone will likely get assaulted.Most disturbing of all is how routine and normalized it becomes in your mind chapter after chapter. Usually, the victim must birth the product of the rape, and/or is metamorphosed into an animal or object (as translator Stephanie McCarter points out, literally objectified). As though the act collapses into the main theme, the lack of agency over the ever-changing mortal body.NB: The entire poem contains over 250 myths and over 200 characters. Even though I knew many of them already, it was still hard to keep track, so I read with a notebook and took notes on who is who, which I’d highly recommend doing if your memory is a sieve like mine.
3775346957	Ovidio è un fiume in piena, i miti raccontati sono tantissimi. Nel caos apparente ci sono un paio di fili conduttori: gli amori e i tradimenti; il tipo di metamorfosi; lo scorrere ineluttabile del tempo, scandito da Lucifero, da Aurora, da Febo e dalla Luna; le stagioni nate dal rapimento di Persefone; i sentimenti degli dei, uguali anche se forse più intensi di quelli degli uomini; la vendetta, spesso cruenta; la violenza delle armi e delle guerre, spesso scatenate per un nonnulla e alle quali gli dei non sono mai estranei. Anzi assistono, parteggiano, proteggono e distruggono.Metamorfosi è un fatto che riguarda tutto il creato, cielo, terra, dei, uomini, oggetti inanimati. Nulla resta uguale a se stesso. Nemmeno il mare, che separa terre come Zancle (la nostra Messina), un tempo attaccata all’Italia, dalla penisola. Le acque dei fiumi possono improvvisamente diventare salmastre; le pianure sparire, le città inabissarsi. La morte stessa trasforma gli esseri riportandoli all’origine e il ciclo ricomincia, insieme alle stagioni, al giorno e alla notte. Dalla creazione all’avvento di Augusto è un continuo susseguirsi di immagini e storie, di azioni e conseguenze anche tragiche. I volti si accavallano, le vite si compiono sotto gli occhi di dei che amano confondersi con gli uomini, assumendo le forme più diverse per ingannare giovani donne o giovani uomini la cui bellezza li ha stregati. Sono amori che non durano. Sono tante le donne abbandonate e la vendetta è spesso tremenda. Medea, Circe, Giunone, Diana non hanno pietà e nemmeno rimorsi.Nascono fiori dalla morte di Adone e Narciso; nascono città sulle ossa di persone ospitali; nascono guerrieri dai denti di drago; nascono amori incestuosi, a lungo repressi, ma poi senza possibilità di controllo. È di notte che i desideri si fanno insistenti; il giorno porta il pentimento e la vergogna.Il Sonno manda in giro i suoi figli, in grado anch’essi di trasformarsi, a influenzare i sogni degli uomini. L’Invidia avvelena gli animi; la Fame conduce alla pazzia. E le Parche tessono e tagliano il filo della vita.Quindici capitoli, circa 250 miti per raccontare e cantare le età dell’uomo e della storia fino alla morte di Cesare e all’avvento di Augusto in un’opera che, Ovidio ne è certo, varrà al poeta la Fama che trionfa sulla morte.
4426826736	What a master piece. This is a great comglomeration of the old Greek myths along with the Roman myths of this time period. It is very sharp and whitty. This translation is so good and easy to understand. I recommend this to all.
714550187	Me tomó un rato leer esta maravilla, leía un poco cada día, por las mañanas, con la cabeza fresca. Menciono esto porque así recomiendo leerlo, es para tener la cabeza fresca y sin pensamientos, que así te la llenas de imágenes tan increíbles como las que viven los dioses y humanos según Ovidio. Así encuentras los odios, celos, pasiones, peleas, amores, que cuenta sin tener otra cosa presente. Es bello, durísimo, mágico, y certero. Me mató, me encantó, es un libro inolvidable. Cómo pude vivir tanto tiempo sin Ovidio?
301222124	The Romans have a reputation as the great copycats of antiquity. After all, these were a people who borrowed a large amount of their culture, including most of their gods, from their neighbors. This reputation for imitation certainly holds true when looking at Roman literature. Plautus and Terence borrowed wholesale from Menander and other Greek playwrights. Lucretius’ De Rerum Natura, for all of its merits, is basically restating the views of Epicurus. Catullus and Propertius imitated Callimachus. Horace imitated the Greek lyric poets (the Odes) and Archilochus (the Epodes). Virgil was inspired by Theocritus (the Eclogues), Hesiod (the Georgics), and Homer (the Aeneid).“In all this world, no thing can keep its form. For all things flow; all things are born to change their shapes. And time itself is like a river, flowing on an endless course.” Ovid, MetamorphosesAnd then there’s Ovid. By 8 BC, Virgil, Horace, and Propertius were all dead, leaving Ovid as the foremost living poet in Rome. By the time of Ovid’s death around 17/18 AD, Ovid’s poetic output was more than that of Lucretius, Catullus, Virgil, and Horace combined. Ovid wrote in a variety of poetic genres, and while some of his early love poetry was imitative he also showed an originality that was unique among his peers. First in the Heroides, and later with his masterpiece the Metamorphoses Ovid showed an originality of thought that causes him to stand out amongst his contemporaries to this day.The Metamorphoses is a long poem divided into 15 books. The poem recites a history of Greco-Roman mythology, from the creation of the universe to the deification of Julius Caesar, and mostly moves in chronological order. However, the poem is not simply a catalogue of familiar myths and legends. Although the poem touches almost all of Greek mythology’s high points (Perseus, Theseus, Hercules, Jason, Achilles, and all the rest appear at some point), the Metamorphoses is not interested in telling the full story for all of its characters. The poem assumes that its readers have some background knowledge of these stories anyway, and instead weaves a long mythological history using the concepts of metamorphosis and change as a unifying theme. It’s an incredibly ambitious idea, but Ovid pulls it off beautifully. I mentioned in my review of the Heroides that I think Ovid has a real gift for getting inside the heads of these mythological characters and treating them as real people with genuine emotions and depth. Those skills are on full display here. This book may not be the best introduction to Greek mythology (although you could do far worse), as it does assume a certain level of familiarity and skips over some things. But the Metamorphoses is on par with Homer’s epics as the most impressive retelling of Greek mythology I’ve ever read.I’m not the only person to gush so shamelessly over this poem, which was wildly popular in Roman times. There were a few dicey years towards the end of the Roman Empire, when Christian leaders condemned the poem as shamelessly pagan, but the brilliance of Ovid won out and the poem survived to influence thinkers in the Middle Ages and beyond. The poem continued to be extremely popular throughout this time, and the Metamorphoses was one of the most popular books in the Western world for over a thousand years (over 400 manuscripts survive from the Middle Ages alone, which is a lot). It has inspired countless artists, poets, and writers throughout this time. W.R. Johnson pretty much summed it up in stating that “no other poem from antiquity has so influenced the literature and art of Western Europe as has the Metamorphoses.” That’s a pretty good legacy, and one that Ovid predicted in the final lines of his poem:“And now my work is done: no wrath of Jove nor fire nor sword nor time, which would erode all things, has power to blot out this poem…my name and fame are sure: I shall have life.”To sum up, this was an incredible book and, in my humble opinion, the only truly original piece of literature surviving from the Roman Republic/early Roman Empire*. If somebody wanted to read just one book from this period, I’d still probably recommend The Aeneid, which is the “most Roman” book in a lot of ways and a little more representative of the period. But I think the Metamorphoses was the best work of its era. 6 stars, a must read for anyone with an interest in classical literature (both for the poem's own merits and for the influence it has had throughout the centuries). I read the Mandelbaum translation, which was stellar.*Certainly the stories within the Metamorphoses are not original. They had been told countless times for hundreds of years before Ovid’s birth. And you could point to the Theogony of Hesiod as an example of an earlier catalogue of mythology. But this goes far beyond the Theogony in size and scope, and the idea of linking all of these stories with the theme of metamorphosis and change is so novel that I don’t think you can really compare the Metamorphoses to anything that had come before.
3567185134	صدق أوفيد حين قال في خاتمة كتابه أن حتى غضبة جوبيتر الجبار لن تستطيع أن تمحو أثر كتابه وتعجز النار والحديد بل أنياب الزمن العاصف أن تطمس كلماته فكانت أصداء هذا الكتاب واضحة في كل الآداب العالمية وظل منبعاً تستقي منه الآداب الغربية الإلهام فنراه في ملحمة ملكة الجان لإدموند سبنسر ومسرحيتي "العاصفة" و"حلم ليلة منتصف الصيف" لشكسبير ونرى رائعة جيفري تشوسر "حكايات كانتربري" تأثرت إلى حد كبير بأوفيد. ولم يقتصر أثر هذا الكتاب على الأدب وحده وإنما ترك بصمته على الفنون التشكيلية فنجد لوحات "بيكاسو" تصور مشاهد من هذا الكتاب ونراه في تماثيل "بنفنوتو تشيلليني" و "باولو فيرونيزي". تنقل أوفيد برشاقة ساحرة بين مختارات من الأساطير القديمة وخرافات اليونان والرومان وحضارات الشرق السابقة ومن التراث الشعبي الروماني نفسه. فيروي هذه القصص بأسلوب شعري ساحر قل أن تجد له مثيل حيث يمتع القارئ ويرسخ أسماء الآلهة والأبطال في ذهنه فيريحه من المعاناة التي يكابدها أثناء قراءته لتلك الأساطير في أماكن أخرى.
1362540517	Casi puedo compararlo al trabajo que realizó Virgilio con la "Eneida" pues Ovidio gran maestro conocido por otras obras desarrolló una biblia de Mitología romana (que viene a ser una adaptación de la griega) pero aún cuenta más cosas que a veces tergiversan la mitología griega pero es buena fuente de mitos y explicaciones sobre la naturaleza.
590806459	NARCISSUS AND ECHO:The Birth of NarcissusNarcissus was fathered by Cephisus, who "forcefully ravished" the dark river nymph, Liriope.Narcissus was so beautiful that, even in his cradle, you could have fallen in love with him.His family asked a seer whether he would live to a ripe old age. He replied, "Yes, if he does not come to know himself."At first, it seemed that this reply was innocuous. However, ultimately, according to Ovid, it was proven to be true for two reasons: "the strange madness" that afflicted the boy and the nature of his death.Sweet SixteenAt the age of 16, Narcissus could be counted as both a boy and a man.Both males and females fell in love with him. However, Ovid says that "his soft young body housed a pride so unyielding that none of those boys or girls dared to touch him."The implications of this assessment are complicated. There are three components:1. Narcissus was proud or vain.2. He (or his pride) was unyielding.3. None of his admirers dared to touch him.What is unclear is whether he rejected the approaches of his admirers.Did he not yield to their approaches? Alternatively, did he appear to be so unyielding that they didn't make any approaches? Did none dare to approach him?The Importance of GenderIt's important to recognise that Narcissus' admirers were of both genders.He was equally attractive to both.Equally, he implicitly rejected approaches from both genders, so there is no reason to suspect that his sexuality was resolutely either heterosexual or homosexual or bisexual.The Arrival of EchoThe narrative accelerates with the entry of Echo.She is unable to initiate a conversation, but can respond to another's comments, by repeating the last words that she has heard.She falls in love with Narcissus. When he detects her presence, he says "I would die before I would have you touch me." Echo replies, "I would have you touch me." She is inviting physical contact. He scorns her and she wastes away, almost anorexically, until only her voice is left.At this point, Ovid mentions that Narcissus has treated her exactly as he has treated both female and male admirers."Echo and Narcissus" (1903), by John William WaterhouseAn Admirer ScornedNow, another of Narcissus' admirers (not Echo) causes him to be cursed:"May he himself fall in love with another, as we have done with him! May he too be unable to gain his loved one!"The curse effectively makes his love unattainable.A Clear Pool with Shining Silvery WatersIn the next scene, we find Narcissus next to a pool in the woods.As he drinks from the pool, he becomes enchanted with the beautiful reflection that he sees.He has become "spellbound by his own self". However, at this stage, there is no suggestion that he knows that the image is himself:"Unwittingly, he desired himself, and was himself the object of his own approval, at once seeking and sought, himself kindling the flame with which he burned."Unknowingly, Subject and Object had become one.However, as a result of the curse, the Subject could not attain his Object, himself.The Shadow of Your ReflectionOvid warns Narcissus in the text:"Poor foolish boy, why vainly grasp at the fleeting image that eludes you? The thing you are seeing does not exist; only turn aside and you will lose what you love. What you see is but the shadow cast by your reflection; in itself it is nothing. It comes with you, and lasts while you are there; it will go when you go, if go you can."However, there is no suggestion that Narcissus hears the warning. Ovid's caveat comes after the event, when he is writing his tale. Narcissus must acquire knowledge of his predicament on his own. He must come to know himself alone.Narcissus' LoveNarcissus' dilemma is that he can't reach or attain his love:"I am in love, and see my loved one, but that for which I see and love, I cannot reach; so far am I deluded by my love...Only a little water keeps us apart."Eventually, he recognises himself and realises the nature of his love:"Alas! I am myself the boy I see. I know it: my own reflection does not deceive me. I am on fire with love for my own self. It is I who kindle the flames which I must endure."What is to be done?"What should I do? Woo or be wooed? But what then shall I seek by my wooing? What I desire, I have..."He has come to recognise that the Object of the Subject is the Subject itself.Because he already possesses himself (in fact, he is self-possessed), his desire is futile. He cannot acquire again what he already has.Separation and PursuitHis one response is:"How I wish I could separate myself from my body."The mind needs to separate from the body, the Subject needs to separate from the Object, so that the one can pursue the other.This process of separation would make it possible to both desire and acquire. However, again, it is a futile endeavour.My Ill-Starred LoveNarcissus realises that he can never touch the object of his love, because it is watery and illusory.As his image recedes in the pool, he pleads:"Let me look upon you, if I cannot touch you! Let me, by looking, feed my ill-starred love."Let me gaze, if I cannot touch. Even if the object of my gaze is myself.He remains trapped in his self-possession.Woe is MeNarcissus, absorbed by his own image, remains by the pool and does not eat or drink. Like Echo before him, he wastes away. His last words before he dies are:"Woe is me for the boy I loved in vain!"It seems that he has come to "know himself" (view spoiler)[It's interesting to speculate on the meaning of this phrase in this context. Normally, to "know yourself" would be good advice and might prolong life. Here, knowledge will abbreviate Narcissus' life. I wonder whether the verb "know" is being used in a different sense to knowledge, perhaps something analogous to the "Biblical sense"? Was his problem knowing himself as he might know an Other? Alternatively, is there an implication that the illusion could have continued had he not recognised himself? (hide spoiler)] and therefore, in terms of the prophecy, he would not live a long life.When they are preparing his funeral pyre, the only evidence of him they can find is "a flower with circle of white petals round a yellow centre", a narcissus.Love of One's Own EchoThe Narcissus myth has been interpreted as a warning against: 1. self-love; and/or 2. homosexual love.It's arguable that the reason Narcissus loved in vain, is that he loved in vanity.If initially he loved another, eventually he loved his own image.However, in doing so he was deluded, or he deluded himself.The object of the pursuit needs to be an Other, an Object, not the Subject.It takes two to make one.Vanity or excessive pride can be an obstacle in this quest.Same Sex AttractionThe second issue relates to whether the Object needs to be an Other, someone who is not like you. In other words, someone who is different, someone who is of a different gender.In a way, the implicit question is whether homosexuality is a quest for another self, a match, a doppelgänger, rather than an opposite or a complement.If the former, is homosexuality a form of "narcissism"?I don't think that the original Narcissus myth implies anything about homosexuality.Initially, Narcissus did not yield to approaches by either gender. There was no differentiation between heterosexuality and homosexuality. They were equally available and appropriate.It's true that, inevitably, Narcissus saw a male image in the pool, just as a woman would have seen a female image. He also rejected the advances of the female Echo (as he did previously reject the advances of both genders).However, I don't see the myth as a caveat against same sex attraction and relationships.Leaving Room for An OtherThe real issue seems to be a preoccupation or an obsession with yourself, the obsession of Subject for Subject. This is the "strange madness" that Ovid refers to.In other words, the myth itself suggests that it is not sufficient for a Subject to be attracted to itself, a Subject needs an Object, regardless of gender.Although Echo was originally a nymph capable of giving love to Narcissus, her fate in mythology suggests that, while it might have been legitimate for Narcissus to fall in love with Echo, it wasn't appropriate for Narcissus to fall in love with his own echo.Ultimately, Narcissus died by his own hand, killed by a reflection or an echo of his former self.(view spoiler)[This review is part of a reading sequence that includes both Freud and subsequent Queer Theory:On Narcissism: An Introductionhttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Reflecting Narcissus: A Queer Aesthetichttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show... (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2372564441	Very enjoyable translation indeed. Highly recommended. But much will depend on how much you are put off by some expanding of the original, and some rhyme (both internal and line-end). For example: "A fisherman, who with his pliant rodwas angling there below, caught sight of them;and then a shepherd leaning on his staffand, too, a peasant leaning on his plowsaw them and were dismayed: they thought that thesemust surely be some gods, sky-voyaging.Now on their left they had already passedthe isle of Samos – Juno’s favorite –Delos, and Paros, and Calymne, richIn honey, and Labinthos, on the right.The boy had now begun to take delight in his audacity; he left his guideand, fascinated by the open sky,flew higher: and the scorching sun was close;the fragrant wax that bound his wings grew soft,then melted. As he beats upon the air,his arms can get no grip; they’re wingless – bare.The father – though that word is hollow now – cried: “Icarus ! Where are you ?” And that cryechoed again, until he caught sightof feathers on the surface of the sea. And Daedalus cursed his own artistry,then built a tomb to house his dear son’s body.There, where the boy was buried, now his nameremains: that island is Icaria."Also you can read a nice bit online here: http://www.cardinalhayes.org/ourpages...Personally I quite liked the Arachne section included in the doc above, but these things are all a matter of taste.
177988670	I confess that reading Ovid's Metamorphoses has left me a changed man. His focus on transformation parables of ancient myths taught me quite a bit about change. I was intrigued by how often unwanted change was unwillingly created by life-denying action that angers one of the gods. All the great figures of ancient times are here: Daedalus, Achilles, Paris, Perseus, Hector, Pygmalion, Midas, Helen and Aeneas to name but a few. The origins of common fables must have had their ancient roots in Ovid. So much of art, especially painting, music and literature, owes its transformation from the tales articulated with wit and charm by Ovid. This is an important window into ancient times and the stories must have been intriguing to hear in engaging oratory. This is genuinely a great work of literature and the pages really fly by rapidly. These tales of Ovid on change helped me understand better the constant role of change in my own personal transformation. And, thus, the tales of Ovid transformed me in the reading and in the writing transformed Ovid into immortality.
6053034299	Literally can’t give it anything below 5 stars. Read this in preparation for Katabasis lol
3285926127	YouTube kanalımda İtalyan Edebiyatı'na başlangıç yapabileceğiniz kitap önerilerimden bahsettim: https://youtu.be/nTxrw0TosEgHenüz bu kitabı tam olarak anlamaya kapasitem yetmediği için 5 yıldız verip faydalanabildiğim kadar faydalanmakla yetindim. Yunan mitolojisi okumalarınızdan sonraki durağınız Ovidius'un Dönüşümler adlı kitabı olmalı. Yanınızda bir mitoloji sözlüğü bulunsa iyi olur, zira bu kitap bugüne kadar okuduğum en ağır kitaplardan biri.
925858476	A story of change and transformation14 March 2014 The first thing that came into my mind as I was reading this book is a concept that was developed by the Ancient Greek philosopher Democritus: matter is never created or destroyed, it only ever changes form. Then there is the idea Ovid explores: the universe in which we live is in a constant state of flux. Granted, this is the second time that I have read this book (and in fact this particular translation, and I do plan on reading it again) and I must say that while it is an absolutely beautiful piece of literature – one that rightly deserves the term classic – it is a very hard slog. However, the influence that Ovid has had on poetry throughout the ages, stemming from what one could consider his Magnus Opus is outstanding. In fact, another literary epic poem that comes to mind is The Divine Comedy (as well as Paradise Lost), though I must admit that it is nowhere near as saucy as Ovid (not that Metamorphoses is his worst, in fact compared to the The Art of Love – not that I have read it – yet – Metamorphoses is tame). Metamorphoses could be seen as an epic journey through Greek and Roman mythology ending with the assassination of Julius Ceaser and the ascension of Augustus Ceaser to become Princeps of Rome, and with Rome transitioning from a Republic to an Imperium (though I suspect that if you were a foreigner or a slave, little had changed). I suspect that is the is whole reason behind the poem: the Roman state itself have just undergone a huge transition, a metamorphosis if you like, in that the nature of the government had changed, a change that was incredibly violent. However, as I have suggested, this change no doubt only affected the upper classes (of which Ovid was a member) in that the political and oratorical careers of the Republic had suddenly up and vanished. No longer could people aim to become Censors or Consuls because the Princeps had taken that role, and no longer could they form policy and shape the direction of the empire, because the Princeps was doing that as well, and the Princeps was not going anywhere, at all. What Ovid does in this poem is that he tells the story of the universe from its founding (if it indeed had one because many of the philosophers at the time believed that it had always been in existence and that it would have no end - rather it would simply keep on changing form, as it does in the Metamorphoses) and through many of the myths that had come out from the Greeks. Upon reaching the Trojan War, Ovid begins to follow Aeneas (leaving the stories of the Greek conquerors of Troy behind) through Carthage and to the founding of the colony at Alba Longa. It is clear that all of these myths (with the exception of Aeneas, and it is debatable – incredibly debatable – whether Aeneas was ever actually the ancestor of Romulus and Remus, but rather a creation of the Roman ruling class to set them apart from the Greeks, just as the story of Aeneas and Dido was a creation to set them against the Cartheginians and to give them a reason as to why they went to war – not that they were two superpowers fighting over the same lake being reason enough, but then again as most governments know, to send the population to war you have to have a really good reason) have been taken from their Greek origins and effectively Romanised (though Ovid was most likely working on what had developed before him, rather that doing something new The first change, or transformation, that we see in this story is the story of the flood. Now many Christians would like to use this as an excuse to justify a world wide flood, but while it is true that the Grecian flood story is quite old, no doubt it could have been picked up from other sources and Helenised (as many of these tales have been). However, my purpose here is to identify it as one of the first changes, in that what we have is an older world transforming into a new world through the flood (as is the case with the biblical account). The next change come about with the four ages (gold, silver, bronze, and lead), which have been lifted out of Hesiod (and note that Hesiod makes no mention of a flood). Once again we have a constant change as the nature of the ages change, as well as the occupants: as one age comes to an end and another age begins. In a sense, what Ovid is demonstrating is that nothing lasts forever and that change is inevitable. While one could look through the characters that change, such as Io shifting from a woman to a bull and back again, and Daphne with her transformation into a laurel tree, I would rather jump through to the Trojan War, which once again shows another transformation, and that is a transformation of societies and empires. Here we have one dominant empire coming to an end through war, but it is not completely destroyed because from the destruction wrought by the enemy, an seed is sent forth – Aeneas - to create a new empire that eventually rises up and overthrows the conquers of the fatherland. However, as things change, Ovid wants to show his readers (and remember his readers were most likely middle to upper class Roman citizens) that the flux is ongoing and that the current state of affairs will no doubt not last forever.
4948492078	700+ pages of ovid gossiping about every roman creature to ever exist
2243807216	Read for class.
6178033046	Un'opera maestosa.. immensa.. eterna!Eterna così come aveva predetto lo stesso Ovidio e la sua è "un'eterna gloria" più che meritata!È un poema epico immortale, summa della mitologia greco-romana, racconto corale e complesso, ma nonostante questo caratterizzato da una lettura scorrevole e mai noiosa. Dalla narrazione della nascita del mondo si passa all'epoca del mito e di tutte le metamorfosi che caratterizzano questo periodo. Fino ad approdare all'età storica che inizia con gli eroi dell'Iliade e con Enea che cerca la sua meta finale nella fertile terra d'Ausonia. Da qui si arriva ai primi re di Roma, alla filosofia di Pitagora e, infine, alla glorificazione di Roma e del suo Divo più importante, Ottaviano Augusto della stirpe Iulia, chiudendo così il cerchio. Ma, nonostante quest'opera magnifica ed imponente, la fine di Ovidio non sarà gloriosa come il suo poema.. infatti, finirà esiliato nella "barbara" e inospitale Tomi, città sul mar Nero, così come la definiva lo stesso poeta abituato alla cosmopolita e vitale Roma.Per fortuna l'opera sarà conclusa prima del suo esilio nel 8 d.C., a differenza de I Fasti, e come Enea, Romolo e Cesare anche il nome di Ovidio diverrà immortale e la sua fama raggiungerà il firmamento.
5289309983	Este libro escrito por el romano Ovidio, en el año 8 AD, lo leí dos veces. La primera lectura casi termina en abandono. Era una versión sin notas, por lo que fue difícil saber cuál era el contexto relacional y temporal de muchos de los personajes y de sus míticas vivencias. Sin ese contexto, muchas de las casi 250 metamorfosis que se cuentan se volvían entre aburridas y sin sentido. Me paré antes de la mitad (200 páginas). En esa primera lectura un par de historias, incluso descontextualizadas, fueron muy significativas, por lo que me busqué una versión anotada (más de 1000 notas) que me permitió entender mucho mejor cada mito y su concatenación con la cosmovisión mítica Griega. No soy novato en mitología griega, pero incluso con esa base, fue fundamental contar con la versión anotada. Además, las deidades griegas se conocieron con otros nombres en Roma, lo que puede llevar a confusiones o directamente a perderse.Esta obra es una especie de compendio mítico grecolatino. Recoge toda la sabiduría contenida en los mitos de estos dos pueblos. Inicia con una especie de génesis que plantea de entrada la integración de lo sagrado y espiritual con lo profano y material. Muchos Dioses, ninfas, y otros seres mitológicos entran en relación con los humanos. Son relaciones amorosas, venganzas, odios, repudios, etc. Nos deja claro el origen de las ideas monárquicas humanas. Muchos personajes reclaman orígenes divinos míticos, generalmente resultantes de hermosas humanas que seducen a bravos Dioses, para fundamentar hechos extraordinarios que llevaban a cabo los hijos reyes para hacerse así con el poder sobre otros humanos. Es de estas fusiones entre divinidades y humanos de donde sale el título del libro. Aunque hay también metamorfosis "específicas" pero menos creíbles. Todas las metamorfosis, hacen referencia a comportamientos humanos concretos.A mi me encanta Shakespeare y cuando leí en las metamorfosis la historia de Píramo y Tisbe me dije, mira, Sheiks también leyó este libro, solo que él se fue a escribir después Romeo y Julieta. También van a encontrar el mito de Narciso, van a entender lo que significa caer en los brazos de Morfeo, verán caer a Ícaro, conocerán a Cupido y sus peligrosas flechas, presenciarán la tonta decisión del rey Midas, y conocerán en un inmenso final a la Filosofía de Pitágoras, entre muchos otros hechos conocidos en Occidente. Aparecen rápidamente personajes como Circe, Odiseo, Aquiles, Paris, Eneo, y por supuesto Zeus. Son 15 libros cada uno con unos 5 o 6 mitos. El mito más largo puede extenderse por unas 6 páginas. Los cortos una o dos y la mayoría se extienden por unas tres páginas. Con una versión anotada, no necesitan conocer previamente la mitología griega para disfrutar de las metamorfosis.
3832381869	4/10Don't get this rating wrong, I'm glad that I read this, it's one of my greatest literary accomplishments thus far with War and Peace, but damn, what a drag. I get it, I respect it, but the amount of eye roll I had while reading this is absurd. I don't think even twilight compares.I think that for a book that's well over 700 hundred pages (in my edition,) it lacked depth and was very repetitive. Oh, you have ambition? Dare to have dreams? To not conform? To love? How about... no longer being human!Not to go all fanfics here but, can we all agree that Ovid wrote this because he was heartbroken and needed to keep busy? Because the whole 'oh I'm sad I'm going to live in my poems from now on' screams Red Era Taylor Swift. (personal highlights include: - Narcissus and the nymphe Echo- Scylla & Minos-Medea & Jason-Orpheus' songs-the founding of Rome)I think I'll read this again from time to time because it seems like that kind of book you revisit and get something new every time, but I don't think I'll ever do a full readthrough again.
11611319	I never quite finished this and will need to start again now. The problem was reading it before bed at night - there are so many stories and so many characters that keeping track of them all in that twillight between awake and asleep proved too much for me. But this is the Classical World's Bible, although much more interesting in that the stories are clearly meant to be taken as metaphor and there isn't endless boring bits where all that happens is praise for the jealous god.The Greeks and Romans had a much better sense of irony than the Jews or Christians, I think. If you read this you might get that odd sense of having heard many of the stories before - and that might be one of the main reasons for reading this book at all - it has been the source of so much else in our literary tradition, that alone is reason enough to read it.
2101040341	Nothing quite so strange, nor quite so near to home.
7813839780	Die Studienausgabe hält nur mit ein paar vollständigen Büchern bereit. Ich lese den Rest und bespreche dann die vollständige Ausgabe (Metamorphosen), übersetzt von Gerhard Fink nach der Übertragung durch August von Rode. Der Sinn einer Studienausgabe erschließt sich mir nicht. Dennoch gebe ich allein wegen des Inhalts 5 Sterne. Die Ausgabe selbst, durch die Kürzung, ist nicht bewertbar.
7757054696	LOVE LOVE. So vivid and disturbing and beautiful. All these ancient tales are brought to life by Ovid (and this translator) in a way that feels so contemporary and emotional. This is the only translation I've read but I'll try others one day. It's truly an incredible read.
6499963704	What will become of me, gripped as I amby this queer longing for a kind of lovemaking that no one understands?Did not connect fully to this, but mostly had a lovely time reading this very old epic poem. I learned about Ovid many many years ago (my Romanian teacher would probably be happy that I read this), because he was exiled in Pontus Euxinus, aka The Black Sea, in the city of Tomis, now Constanța. There's actually a town that bears his name (Ovidiu), that you pass through on the way to the seaside. The book has some interesting themes, like the powerlessness of humans against gods, women in the face of men who want them (so many chapters are titled 'X rapes Y', like a huge amount of them, so read with care), but also quite a lot of queerness, gender type of metamorphoses and some sweet gay love. A lot of the characters (too many, I have to confess I couldn't always remember who we were talking about, because there are many many names of characters and complex relationships between them) are turned into plants, trees, birds and so on - and it seems to me like they're objectified further, after the transgressions against them, by becoming only a reminder of what was done to them. Well. In some cases it's what they've done. Actaeon, transformed into a stag by Diana, goddess of the hunt, asks: 'For how is error crime?' and yeah, the gods are cruel. Love and Hymen shake their wedding torches.Oh yeah, Hymen's the god of marriage. Even if the injustices done to women in this book are many and rendered compassionately, there's still a bit of a sexist bent to these stories, like the witchy Medea and Circe and their stories. There's also a... checks notes... woman rapist? (Aurora) Enjoyed the story of Iphis, who becomes a man in order to be a husband to his beloved, Ianthe. It was an interesting gender-transitioning sort of story, but also Iphis did not know how to satisfy Ianthe without a penis so... can he find the clit though? Also enjoyed quite a few stories I knew already from Greek myths, like Orpheus and Eurydice, some bits of the Illiad, and so on. Also, catching a lot of characters and places with names used by Tamsyn Muir in The Locked Tomb, lol. (Cytherea, Ada, Protesilaus, Ianthe, Palamedes, Sarpedon etc). Oh and the lengthy bit about Pythagoras and metempsychosis (the soul moving from one body to another), which is also an interesting plea for vegetarianism, but also describes a lot of beautiful transformations / metamorphoses that take place in nature - including the transness of hyenas! Another thing that was nice was all the places mentioned here that I've been, like Mount Hymettus, the island of Euboea, driving past the coast of Corinth and others.
3350265012	Livro obrigatório para os apaixonados pela mitologia clássica. Apesar de no início demonstrar de difícil leitura devido á enorme quantidade de heróis e deuses, vale a pena insistir e deixar-se deslumbrar por estas "metamorfoses". Impressiona como livros que tem milhares de séculos sobreviveram aos dias de hoje, e continuam a ter muita relevância na nossa cultura. Ovid é digno do colocar-se ao lado de Homero e Virgílio como esta sua epopeia das lutas entre Deuses e Semi-Deuses, heróis gregos e romanos e homenagem ao império romano.
3049589869	Bu, Dönüşümler ile ikinci buluşmamız. İlki 2019 yılında, sadece İlyada okumuş halimle ve bütün cahil cesaretimle atıldığım bir maceraydı ki bütün dürüstlüğümle söylüyorum kitabın yüzde 80’i benim için hiçbir şey ifade etmedi. Hatta bu yüzden Goodreads’te puan dahi vermedim.Kitap, aslında he şeyin en başından; Chaos’tan başlayıp Augustus dönemine kadar Yunan ve Roma Mitolojisinin en temel olaylarının anlatıldığı bir destan. Bu açıdan hem insanlığın - en azından mitolojik açıdan- tarihinin izini sürmek ve en temel tragedyaların dahi nasıl aslında birbirinin farklı varyasyonları olabildiğini, sözlü tarihin tıpkı mitolojik metinlerdeki “Söylenti” gibi güçlü ve takip edilebilir olduğunu görmek açısından bu baştan sona takip edilen bütünlüğü izlemek muazzam. Ancak iki farklı şekilde okumuş birisi olarak şunu söylemeliyim ki; bu panaroma konusu ”o zaman diğer kitaplar yerine bunu okumak yeterli gelir” gibi düşünmeyin. Çünkü Dönüşümler içinde; Troya Savaşı, Odysseus’un yolculuğu ya da Aeneis’in Latium’a ulaşma süreci aslında çok kısa bir şekilde geçiyor lakin bu anlatıların geneliyle çokça bağlantılı başka başka hikayelerle örülüyor destan. O yüzden mutlaka Ilyada, Odysseia, Aeneis’i ve bazı tragedyaları okuduktan sonra, Dönüşümler’i bir kapanış olarak planlayın Bu şekilde okumanız çok daha faydalı, keyifli ve doyurucu olacaktır. Bu üçlünün yanında Torunuma Yunan Mitleri ve Kadmos ile Harmonia’nın Düğünü’nü okumuş olmak da - en azından benim için- çok yardımcı oldu. En azından daha önceden biraz fikrim olan ya da farklı varyasyonlarını bildiğim tragedyaları takip etmem kolaylaştı. Bir de elinizin altında mutlaka bir mitoloji sözlüğü bulunsun. Çünkü hem çok fazla isimle hem de bunların Yunan yerine Roma/Latin mitolojisindeki isimleriyle karşılaşacaksınız. Tanrılar kısmı tamam ama ölümlüler kısmında her iki mitolojinin isimlendirmesini de aklınızda tutmanız çok zor. Ben bazı hikayeleri biraz daha detaylı anlattığı için Pierre Grimal’ın sözlüğünü kullandım. Ancak elinizde varsa Azra Erhat’ın Mitoloji Sözlüğü’de ihtiyacınızı fazlasıyla karşılayacaktır.Yine de son zamanlarda okuduğum -Aeneis ya da Terra Nostra da dahil olmak üzere- en zorlayıcı ve yoran metindi. Evet mitoloji ilginizi çekiyorsa, okurken gerçekten çok keyif alıyorsunuz. Lakin diğer yandan da hem kafa hem de yoğunluk olarak en sakin dönemime denk getirmeme rağmen; sanki Ilyada, Odysseia, Aeneis ve tragedyaları arka arkaya, hiç ara vermeden okumuşum gibi yoruldum. O yüzden sıkışık bir döneminize denk getirmemeye özen gösterin derim. Onun dışında muhtemelen yıl içinde okuyacağım en güzel kitaplardan birisiyle yılın ilk ayından karşılaşmış olmanın mululuğu içindeyim.Bu arada kitabın güzelliğinden bu kadar mest olmuşken, onu bu kadar okunabilir ve anlaşılır kılan Asuman Coşkun Abuagla hakkında da bir şeyler söylemeden geçemeyeceğim. Zira daha önceden, dilimizdeki diğer çeviriyi okumuş ve başka dillerdeki çevirilerine de göz atmış biri olarak gerek dipnotlardaki yorumları ve diğer varyasyonlara dair eklemeleriyle gerekse de oldukça karmaşık bir yazım tercihiyle kaleme alınmış böylesine zor bir eseri böyle okunur kıldığı için ne kadar teşekkür edilse az bence.
2075147984	Quite labouring to get through at times, but I do intend on buying the Penguin edition and rereading this at some point in my own time - I definitely would have enjoyed it more had I the option of reading it in my own time, rather than a one week time scale (it was a uni read). So yeah! I liked it, but often couldn't follow, especially when the longer stories dragged a bit. However I think under different circumstances, it might've been a higher rating because I'd love to spend time really taking in the stories.
4882166565	I received an advance reader copy of this book to read in exchange for an honest review via netgalley and the publishers.The Golden Age: Ovids Metamorphoses is a beautiful illustrated book for children giving short 3 paged retelling of a handful of Ovids Metamorphoses. The book is written at a lovely children's can understand and would make a great short story literary resource for a KS2 classroom. The only thing I found difficult to get my head around at first was why the names of the famous Greek Gods was changed to the Roman counterpart - children will be more familiar with the Greek versions than the Roman names. I guess this is because Ovid was a Roman writer? Apart from that I enjoyed these short retelling and found they're perfect for a quick read or story to discuss with your child after reading.
6493317061	What a long process. I prefer novels rather than short snippets. I think this loses much in translation. I wouldn’t have bought the Raeburn as I found out during discussion with others than some of the translation is lost and it changes the meaning of some of the poems. I prefer the Lombardo but Good Reads wouldn’t allow me to state I was reading both. It essential reading as Greek and Rome myths are still a strong part of our culture especially in the world of academia. Ovid was definitely an influence on Shakespeare and Chaucer. When reading through these poem the reader can definitely see themes developing. Some of fun, some deeply depressing and others full of gore, violence and sexual assault. I don’t believe books should be censored - very Fahrenheit 451 to do so. You don’t need a degree to read this ancient Roman text. Read out loud to enjoy musicality but not around young children.
1080284553	Homeros'un "İlyada" ve "Odysseia" ve Virgilius'un "Aeneis" destanlarının izinden giderek dünyanın yaradılışından Julius Caesar'ın evlatlık oğlu Agustus zamanına kadar olan neredeyse tüm önemli mitolojik olayları okuyucuya sunan "Metamorphoses / Dönüşümler", Ovidius'un edebiyat tarihine kazandırdığı mükemmel bir başyapıt. Kitabı okumak için Antik Yunan edebiyatına çokça hakim olmak gerekiyor. O yüzden eserin benim gibi Antik Yunan ve Roma edebiyatını bitirmek üzere olan okuyucuların son durağı olması gerektiğini düşünüyorum. Aksi takdirde okuyucunun zorlanma ihtimali oldukça yüksek. Buna ek olarak, kitabı okurken Remzi Kitabevi yayınlarından Azra Erhat'ın "Mitoloji Sözlüğü"nü de kenarda bulundurmakta fayda var. Her bölümün birbirinden harika ve sürükleyici olduğu kitapta edebiyat tarihine (Shakespeare'in "Romeo ve Juliet"i vb.) daha doğrusu sanat tarihine yön vermiş bir sürü olayı okuma şansı buluyorsunuz. Euripides, Sophokles ve Aiskhylos'un oyunlarına düzenli bir şekilde atıfta bulunan Ovidius'un tabii ki en büyük referans aldığı kaynaklar destanlarla beraber Hesiodos'un "İşler ve Güçler" eseriyle Herodot'un "Tarih"i. Kitapta ayrıca tüm kutsal kitaplara referans olmuş tufan ve Adem ile Havva gibi birçok olayı mitolojik şekilde okuyabilirsiniz ki bence kitabın en önemli özelliği de bu. Ovidius'un akıcı dili ve olayları bağlayış biçimiyle hayran kalarak okuyacağınız eserin odak noktası ise tabii ki defne ağacı gibi bitkilerin, karga, kuzgun ve örümcek gibi hayvanların, Ege Denizi ve Etna Yanardağı gibi doğal kaynakların dönüşümlerle beraber nası ortaya çıktığı. Sonuç olarak Ovidius'un insanlığa armağanı olarak nitelendirebileceğim "Dönüşümler", kesinlikle herkes tarafından okunması gereken gerçek bir başyapıt.17.07.2016İstanbul, TürkiyeAlp Turguthttp://www.filmdoktoru.com/kitap-labo...
4198669014	The book is a collection of many ancient myths united by the theme of metamorphosis.Plot. Rating 5The myths collected by the author are very diverse. The vast majority of them are from Greek mythology; it is a real encyclopedia. There are simple plots, but many plots are quite intricate with unexpected twists and miraculous transformations. The poem shows and considers the whole spectrum of human emotions and deeds. From extreme cruelty and insane revenge (for example, the myth of Prokne and Philomela) to love and humor. I think most myths are little known; although, their heroes have turned into the concepts, beings, and words of our modern life. For example, such a phenomenon as an echo has a beautiful explanation in Greek mythology.Nevertheless, the book has a general chronological movement from the creation of the world to Julius Caesar.Characters. Rating 5The poem features a huge number of characters. A frequent motive is the struggle of people against the gods through voluntary or involuntary rivalry. The Greek gods are cruel, vindictive, and capricious. However, Ovid manages to fill the characters with true emotions and experiences. He accurately uses words and phrases to depict heroes in states of passion, falling in love, spiritual uplift, or complete collapse of hopes. Many transformations correspond very well to the character and behavior of their heroes.Dialogues. Rating 4The meaning of the dialogues is conveyed well, but the florid style of the poem introduces some redundancy and emotionality. However, since the characters are almost always in extraordinary and unusual circumstances, these dialogues suit them. But this is a common feature of many ancient works.Writing style. Rating 4I liked the writing style of the book; although, in my opinion, it is not easy to read because the poem contains a large number of exclamations, rhetorical questions, self-talk, and various topics little known to the modern reader. Also, the stories change quite abruptly. However, this is offset by the excellent descriptions. Ovid builds a detailed scene of dramas and tragedies and shows the character behavior well. He also describes the details of the situation, the unusual appearance of various gods and monsters, and their metamorphoses well.Worldbuilding. Rating 5This is a grandiose study and reconstruction of ancient mythology. Ovid conveyed the myths in a precise and tangible way, unfolding a poetic movie before the reader's eyes. His worldbuilding details always work to change the plot, motives, and emotions of the characters. This creates a vast and rich fantasy world, which when read, comes to life.And of course, the metamorphoses themselves are excellent worldbuilding. It was interesting for me to find out which animals, birds, plants, constellations, and concepts have roots in Greek mythology.Conclusion. Overall rating 5Ovid perfectly conveyed the vast world of ancient mythology to human civilization in a concentrated and fascinating form.
3681602164	It's been fascinating to immerse myself in these myths and see how Ovid, having taken Greek myths as his source, has influenced so many other writers later on. I'm already quite familiar with Greek mythology, and yet! It doesn't seem to matter how many times you re-read them, by which author, whether they are a direct translation of the original or a retelling. There are so many characters, so many relationships, and so much depth, that there's always something new to find.There's been a recent resurgence of retellings in which these myths are framed from a modern perspective, and I find that too many of them try to make these characters into people, when they are, overwhelmingly, stories to explain how the world worked. Why do some birds mate for life? Why is there winter? Why does the sun travel across the sky? These are not stories about people, and trying to make the myth of Hades and Persephone into a romance is kind of missing the point (on top of making me a little worried for the author's idea of what constitutes romance).
6473425683	I have intended to read this translation for a long time and finally got around to it (been on my shelves for years). It is the version read by Shakespeare; Ezra Pound called it "the most beautiful book in the language." Ez was opinionated and some of his literary judgements erratic; certainly this one was. This is not a modernized version. While Nims has provided a lot of very helpful notes on obsolete terms, it can still be slow going. Golding is wordy and the translation is significantly longer than the Latin text. His verse can also become a bit sing-songy, whether you read it aloud or just hear it echoing in your mind. Ovid's stories are good in any case, and not always the versions most commonly encountered elsewhere. His versions tend to be prettied up and literary, lacking the raw power of Hesiod, Homer, and the tragedians. Not surprising, since Augustan poets were more in tune with the Alexandrians, who tend to be to precious for my taste.
7350209354	Totally enjoyable and highly entertaining! Listened to the Audible version while reading my Penguin copy of the book. It is worth the read and it actually goes by pretty quickly. So much is going on in this work and Ovid has included many stories of characters whose names we are familiar with from other works.
4953250959	Αμέσως μετά την οικτρή απογοήτευση της τραγικής Αινειάδας του Βιργίλιου, διάβασα τις Μεταμορφώσεις του Οβίδιου. Τα δύο έργα είναι... διαμετρικά αντιθετα, ως προς την πρόθεση (το σκοπούμενο) και την υλοποίηση. Ενώ στην Αινειάδα ο Βιργίλιος επιδίδεται σε άκομψη λεηλασία των Ομηρικών Επών με καταφανείς πολιτικές σκοπιμότητες καθώς γλείφει ξεδιάντροπα τον Οκταβιανό Αύγουστο (και τον ήδη πεθαμένο θετό του πατέρα Γάιο Ιούλιο), ο Οβίδιος μας ξεναγεί στους μύθους της κλασικής και κλασικιστικής αρχαιότητας (ενώ στο τέλος μπαίνει και αμιγώς ιστορικό στοιχείο με τον Πυθαγόρα) με ματιά έξυπνη, κριτική, ειρωνική, σκωπτική και δραματική. Η στάση του απέναντι στους ισχυρούς του καιρού του, δεν είναι αυτή του οσφυοκάμπτη Βιργίλιου -κάτι που αποτυπώνεται και στο γεγονός ότι πέθανε εξόριστος από τη Ρώμη. Ο Οβίδιος μέσα από τις Μεταμορφώσεις του κάνει επιθέσεις στα ήθη, τις ενέργειες και τις πρακτικές του -σχεδόν κοσμοκράτορα της εποχής του- Οκταβιανού Αυγούστου, σαρκάζει δε ξεκάθαρα όταν προς το τέλος αναφέρει ότι το μεγαλύτερο επίτευγμα του Γάιου Ιούλιου είναι πως... είχε τον Αύγουστο ως θετό τέκνο, ενώ τα βέλη του είναι ευθύτατα ριγμένα πάνω στον ύπατο όταν λέει χωρίς περιστροφές ότι "θεοποιήθηκε ο Γάιος Ιούλιος Καίσαρας" ώστε "να έχει θεό πατέρα ο Οκταβιανός". Δεν κάνεις φίλους έτσι, τουλάχιστον όχι μέσα την άρχουσα τάξη, αλλά βοηθάει πολύ να σε αγαπήσουμε 2000 χρόνια αργότερα ως αναγνώστες.Ως προς το ίδιο το έργο, γνωστοί και λιγότερο γνωστοί στον αναγνώστη αρχαίοι μύθοι ζωντανεύουν μέσα από την πένα του ποιητή ο οποίος δε διστάζει να καταδικάσει ό,τι βρίσκει άδικο ως πράξη (μπορεί κανείς μέχρι και να τον αποκαλέσει φεμινιστή με τον τρόπο που αντιμετωπίζει τις αδικίες εις βάρος των γυναικών), να σατιρίσει ότι γκροτέσκο και παράλογο παρασύρει η πένα του (εξαιρετικό σημείο είναι η προσπάθεια του Πολύφημου, του γνωστού μας από την Οδύσσεια Κύκλωπα να καλλωπιστεί για να κερδίσει την αγάπη της Γλαύκης), να αποδώσει την τραγική ενίοτε μοίρα των ανθρώπων, ιδίως όσων τόλμησαν να αρθούν πάνω από τα ανθρώπινα μέτρα και να συγκριθούν με τους ανώριμους και μνησίκακους θεούς του Ολύμπου.Ειδική μνεία για τα τη νομή των όπλων του Αχιλλέα: Με δύο παραστατικούς μονολόγους/καταθέσεις, ο Οβίδιος βάζει τους δύο ήρωες να επιχειρηματολογούν για την απόδοση των όπλων του νεκρού γιου του Πηλέα και ενώ ο μεν Αίαντας, ο ορισμός του ήρωα, του οπλομάχου, του υπερασπιστή δεν έχει να καταθέσει παρά μόνο την απλή (σχεδόν απλοϊκή) αλήθεια της ρώμης και των πολεμικών του επιτευγμάτων, βρίσκει απέναντί του έναν αποκάλυπτα κυνικό και χυδαία στρεψόδικο αμοραλιστή Οδυσσέα, ο οποίος χρεώνει ακόμη και τα δικά του παραδεδεγμένα λάθη στους Δαναούς και καταφέρνει στο τέλος να κερδίσει... "πήραν οι ρήτορες τα όπλα των ηρώων", σχολιάζει αποτροπιασμένος ο ποιητής.Δύο χιλιάδες χρόνια μετά τη συγγραφή του, το έργο δεν έχει χάσει την χάρη του, την αμεσότητά του, το σαρκασμό του και το χιούμορ του, ούτε τη σκληρότητα που σε αρκετά "χωρία" επιδεικνύει (βλέπε εκδορά του Μαρσύα από τον Απόλλωνα και σε αντιδιαστολή με την αδικημένη Αράχνη που όντως νίκησε στο διαγωνισμό την Αθηνά... αλλά η θεά θυμωμένη από την ήττα της τη μεταμόρφωσε -ελαφρώς συμπονετική μέσα στη μνησίκακη εκδικητικότητά της- σε ζωΰφιο που αενάως γνέθει).Αξίζει να διαβαστεί, ιδίως στην ελληνική έκδοση με την πολύ καλή μετάφραση σε ρέοντα πεζό λόγο (με επισήμανση των στίχων όμως) του Διουνσίου Χαλκωματά, και την εξαιρετική δουλειά που έχει γίνει στις σημειώσεις, οι οποίες είναι τόσο εκτεταμένες και αναλυτικές που ακόμη και ο πιο "δύσκολος" αναγνώστης δε θα μείνει παραπονούμενος.
545535097	Third and fourth year Latin class. These were my favorites of our translation assignments. Lovely tales of transfigurations. Ovid rocks!
2627413371	Like many classic epics, Ovid's "Metamorphoses" is an anthology, retelling ancient oral tales, all lined up and arranged in a loose narrative arc, not much different in structure from the Odyssey, Iliad, Aeneid, not to mention the Hebrew Bible, New Testament, Gilgamesh epic, and Arabian Nights. Ovid focuses on tales of shape shifting identity twists....hence the title. So we get the tale of Diana and Actaeon in which the hunter becomes the hunted. With Narcissus and his reflection, beauty falls in love with itself. Then the artist Pygmalion falls in love with his own creation, that comes conveniently to life. The artist and his art are one, the dancer is the dance. And self-reflective story telling about the comforts of story telling is central to the main symbol of the poet-singer Orpheus. As with all these classic Greco-Roman stories, there is an abundance of rape and pillage, and badly misbehaving gods. In many ways these contentious, arbitrary and cruel gods provide a more logical explanation of history than the Judeo Christian notion of a noble and just god. It is the beauty of art and the magic of poetry and song that lift the stories from savage brutality to something transcendent. And highly ambiguous. After emphasizing the transitory nature of all things, Ovid boasts that his songs will live for ever, --where ever Rome rules -- a point he has already put in doubt. And he has this Roman leader turn divine and ascend into heaven in an apotheosis of ridiculous proportions, meant to flatter I suppose, but only if one accepts the nonsense. There are no ancient manuscripts of the text, but it did survive the collapse of the Roman Empire. What I cannot quite get a handle on is what was going through the minds of all those medieval monks who copied and recopied these pagan tales of lust and blood and magical transformations to preserve them after the fall of the Roman empire. What were those sedentary, theoretically celibate guys in the scriptoria actually thinking of. What was it that appealed to them? And did they make any changes in the text? We may never know...https://www.wdl.org/en/item/4524/
2960611219	A long time must-read on my buck-it list, Metamorphoses would have been extremely hard going, and probably I would have turned back before getting even halfway, were it not for this highly enjoyable and current, 2005 verse translation by Charles Martin. The text is a massive synthesis, a compendium of mythology, lineage, tropes, and a detailed omnibus of the whole Greco-Roman epic soap opera. (view spoiler)[Turns out Greek mythology doesn't quite sum up as "Zeus can't keep it in his pants" after all, but close enough. (hide spoiler)] There is a prevalent unifying theme of metamorphoses which keeps the whole shaggy haystack hanging together. Also, a lot of it gets schematic and repetitive: inadvertantly, heroes, gods and other creatures get into the same sort of feuds and jealousies, violence and rape abound, and the mighty fall right and left. Many are transformed into birds, flowers or wellsprings in the process, accounting for a lot of antique geograpy and wildlife.Ovid single-handedly delivers some of the most epically tedious cast and location listings, and virtually all of the romance-intrigue, comicbook-superhero and notably, horror scenes, which are today more familiar from screenplays than antique lit. What a guy! I can even bring myself to overlook his shameless sucking-up to sponsor and patron Emperor Augustus at the end: there must have been strings attached. He rightly boasts, "My work is finished now: no wrath of Jove, nor sword nor fire nor futurity is capable of laying waste to it." Overall, an accessible classic masterpiece.
3990439170	I kept this on my bedside table and read a few chapters/myths whenever I felt like it which was nice:) My all time favorite myth is about hyacinthus and Apollo and I loved reading it! It’s the main reason I got the book:)Also in Orpheus and Eurydice there’s a part that goes “and now, as she died for the second time, she never complained that her husband had failed her - what could she complain of, except that he’d loved her?”I though that’s as really pretty:) I underlined a lot of parts but that’s one of my favorite:)
1618959489	4 Stars, Completed April 24, 2016They say leave the best for last, right? My last assigned reading for my classics class happened to be my favorite. It incorporated all the famous myths I already knew (and some unknown ones I haven't heard before) but also put them all in context and sequence.Ovid's Metamorphoses documents the origin and creation of the world up until the life of the poet himself. There are some familiar segments pulled from The Iliad (my review), The Odyssey , and The Aeneid (my review). We see recurring characters and gods/goddesses from those works and many more recognizable myths. “Omnia mutantur, nihil interit.” (Everything changes, nothing perishes.) The series of stories divided out between the 15 books portray the most essential theme: the change and transformation of things or people into different forms, hence "metamorphoses." Ovid does this in a careful and considered manner making the translated prose quite tricky but still beautiful (I read this in translated English but I do remember reading and translating some passages of this in Latin when I took the language in the past).As for something I found intriguing, were the recurring commonalities found in a lot of these stories. Often times a myth would begin with Jupiter (or Zeus) falling under lust and raping some young and unwilling maiden. Juno (or Hera) would be filled with jealousy upon discovering her husband's infidelity, and she usually would find a way to make the maiden's life miserable. She does so successfully and most of the women end up crying and morphing into rivers/streams/other bodies of water (or the occasional tree). Sometimes there's a diversifying story where it'll focus on the men's tragic lives instead. In that case, the man is usually transformed into a bird by the end. But of course, no surprise, as most Roman and Greek literature, there was a lot of sex, violence, and bad decisions (which led to tragic deaths) caused by fate. But again, transformation is a huge idea that pops up time and time again (along with idea that there are divine consequences when denying a god/goddess).Anyway, instead of continuing to describe the events of Metamorphoses I'd liked to go ahead and just end this review here. What really made Metamorphoses stand out to me in comparison to other epic poetry was how it was written. Ovid shares these myths and stories by allowing them to be more episodic than a continual narrative, which made the reading feel not as heavy despite the overall length. After reading, I can easily recognize why the great Ovid influenced many works of art and entertainment made by famous individuals (including Shakespeare, a list of Renaissance and Baroque artists, and also more recent painters from the modern movements in the 20th century like Salvador Dalí). To sum it up: Metamorphoses is a thick classic with a challenging narrative structure but certainly worth trudging through to gain "scholar points" or more knowledge on Greek/Roman mythology. ---More reviews at XingsingsBlog @xingsings | Instagram @readxings | Twitter @xingsings
2069235129	33. Metamorphoses by Ovid, translated by A. D. Melville, notes by E. J. Kenneyoriginal date: circa 8 cetranslated 1986format: Paperbackacquired: Library book sale 2012read: July 23 - Aug 15rating: 5I'm not and cannot properly review Ovid's Metamorphoses. Instead just scattered notes.- Metamorphoses has tended to fall out of favor at different times because it's mainly entertaining. It seems it kind of mocks serious study, or can in certain perspectives.- And it is entertaining in a very flexible way. You can read it straight through, or a story at time - usually only a few pages - or in many other ways, including in a reading slump, like I was in when I started. The only thing really daunting about it, assuming you have a decent translation or read Latin, is its length.- The quality of the translation is maybe not that critical. He'll be entertaining regardless. - It's almost chronological, beginning with creation and a few other foundation stories (which for me struck a bunch of interesting notes right off) and ending with Roman history. - Except that Ovid dodges a lot. He avoids, mostly, overlap with Virgil and Homer and other prominent works, finding niches that are generally overlooked, or working in more obscure stories. He has a whole book (there are 15 books) on mostly eastern stories. Anyway, he won't replace your Edith Hamilton or other Greek mythological guides.- He filled in a lot stories I hadn't caught in ancient literature - like Atalanta and the Calydonian Boar hunt, the battle of the Lapiths and the Centaurs and Pirithous's wedding, or Venus and Adonis.- But main story lines around Theseus, Minos, Hercules, Jason and the Argo and the hunt for the Golden Fleece, most of the Trojan War or even the basic history of the gods or their battle with the giants all get only cursory coverage.- He knew everything, or so it seems. Like his previous works, he works in references to practically all known literature of all types. Some more prominent than others, and many lost. - He also probably (hopefully) made a lot of stuff up.- So he writes a bit like a scholar and bit like creator.- This is largely humor, but it's not funny exactly, or even exactly satire, it's just very clever. He creates entertaining situations and then might overdo it a bit. I don't think I ever really minded, even when he got quite gory. - I think Ovid influences everyone, including many famous art works, but the main work that came to mind as I read it was Spenser's The Faerie Queene. Not that Spenser has Ovid's mythology, but just that they left me with a very similar sense. All that work they put in and how far and deeply it pulls you out of the world and how yet mainly it's playful, how it can leave you with that magical sense that only exists around the fringes of your consciousness or awareness.- recommended to anyone, because it seemed like it has almost universal appeal, but not everyone, if that makes sense.
