2173928230	”So I stand against the wall, listen to REM, finish the beer, get more, keep my eye on the Freshman girl. Then some other girl, Deidre I think her name is, black spiked hair that already looks dated and trendy, black lipstick, black fingernail polish, black kneesocks, black shoes, nice tits, okay body, Senior, comes over and she’s wearing a black halter top even though it’s like forty below in the room and she’s drunk and coughing like she has T.B., swigging Scotch. I’ve seen her stealing Dante in the bookstore.”Bret Easton Ellis, in describing this girl, gives us those extra descriptive terms that make us give Deidre a second look. Coughing, swigging, and stealing. Okay, so she is a bit trashy, a bit goth, a bit too easy, maybe, but any girl that steals Dante would definitely have perked my interest back in the day. The music is loud so I’d have to nuzzle up to her ear. She probably smells faintly still of the perfume she put on earlier, but her skin has probably also started to soak up some of the aromas from the party. I’d tell her, I saw you stealing Dante.Now Sean is way more worried about banging the cute freshman girl.... Why?... because she is garden-fresh, practically just hatched. She hasn’t been initiated into the Camden Liberal Arts college tradition of swill, sweat, and semen. Interesting enough, Camden is probably the most famous college in recent American literary history. Writers Ellis, Jonathan Lethem, and Jill Eisenstadt all attended the very expensive Bennington College in Vermont. All have used Camden as a fictional universe for their Bennington experiences. The author Donna Tartt also attended Bennington, but in her novel The Secret History, she uses the fictional name of Hampden. Camden. Hampden. I do believe there is literary collusion going on. No Russians as far as I can tell were involved. Sean has a stalker, a sweet secret admirer, who leaves him love notes in his mail box. ”It is simple. I watch him. He reveals himself in dark contours. Everything I believe in floats away when I witness him, say, eating or crossing the boundaries of a crowded room. I feel a scourge. I have his name written on a sheet of pale blue paper that is tissue thin.” She is a ghost throughout the book as we whiplash between different narrators who all reveal pieces of what has happened. Sometimes their accounts differ, and sometimes the omission of facts from one narrator, in particular, reveals much about how far they are from understanding what they truly desire. Sometimes they lie. The task for the reader is to evaluate what we are told until the truth becomes a glittering, but tarnished, pearl.So I’ve sort of introduced Sean to you, as he is tucking Deidre into his back pocket in case he needs her while he attempts to catch the eye of cute freshman. As the plot develops, his life becomes more complicated as he finds himself trapped in a confusing, obsessive relationship (sexship) with Lauren. To add more spice to the caldron of lust, he also is having sex with...Paul? Is he? As this triangle acquires more weight, we start to understand the inability of any of these characters to get passed impulsive desires and find any meaning in love. ”’He likes him. He likes her. I think she likes someone else, probably me. That’s all. No logic.’”Ask that same question of these people a week later and the corners of the triangle will point in different or all new directions. It is all fluid and meaningless, but not without psychological mutilation.Remember the stalker?”The seeds of love have taken hold and if we can’t burn together, I’ll burn alone.”Going to class at Camden seems optional. It is certainly low on the list of priorities. These kids are being washed up on the shores of a hedonistic island, and if anyone is feeling inhibited, soon the copious amounts of alcohol, drugs, and hormonally driven lust have them dancing to the latest Talking Heads album along with the natives. It makes me wonder, after these people are booted off the island, how anyone can reintegrate into regular society. Camden will leave these people morally decimated, distrustful, and with probably more than one nasty habit. Ahhh yes, the ‘80s. Don’t miss the Dressed to Get Screwed party. The highlight of the year. The book jacket says this is a vast departure from Bret Easton Ellis’s first book, Less Than Zero, which for a few chapters I was thinking what the hell are they talking about, but as I got deeper in the book, I started to realize that this book is actually significantly different from his first book. In Less Than Zero, his characters are soulless, people really beyond redemption in my opinion. In this book, he infuses some humor, some legitimate pain, and explores deeper themes about adolescents awkwardly trapped in an extended childhood and with no real idea why anyone would ever want to be an adult. They are rich, spoiled, and lost. LIke a spectre floating behind the scenes, we have the tale of the secret admirer who is the only person who seems to understand real desire, and sustainable love. The poignancy of her situation will make your heart strings tremble. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten
2766908000	A (college) term in the lives of a group of privileged affluent students at a small liberal arts college, where the story is moved on by short first person narrated chapters (from the point of view of one of the group). This highly acclaimed 'comic' novel comes across to me as more of a look back at how these people behaved in the 1980s, having the hindsight of the revelations made many years later.Despite the content, the storytelling device of one person's point of view chapters works quite well, in providing a rounded and seemingly overarching sense of this soulless world of privilege and naked individualism - featuring the early Sean 'American Psycho' Bateman. 8 out of 12 fierce Four Star read.2019 read
464311213	& so I thought that after college this would be less impressionable & a tad less impressive. Boy was I wrong. I am still completely enraptured by this novel in which characters DON’T change (breaking 1 of the main cardinal rules of all literature—to make protagonists experience change—Ellis is intrepid). The details in this are perfect and absolutely hilarious--80's encapsulated brilliantly. You end up rooting for the sleaziest of antagonists—nobody in Camden deserves redemption and most actions taken are wholly despicable. Yet—THIS IS college. The confusion, the sex, drugs, alcohol, suicide attempts, abortions, socials… it's all recorded here. I don’t think another writer has influenced me as much in the art of immorality (this includes [up]Chuck Palahniuk & even the Marquis de Sade)—in his use of effective, rapid, stylish, unforgettable prose. A guilty pleasure that's not all too guilty--despite the explicit content & undercurrent of melancholia. An absolutely essential novel.
1972377	Ellis is one of those authors that seems to grow in stature as time marches on. i see him on so many Favorite Author lists and i just have to roll my eyes a bit. personally, he'll always be the author i laughed at on a regular basis: hilariously pretentious and embarrassingly convinced that pretension equals depth. American Psycho? sorry, the film version was a better portrait of capitalist consumerism and had the intelligence to re-route the author's misogyny so that it existed solely within the central psycho. Less Than Zero? well, it's very hard for me to muster any empathy for spoiled brats who are unhappy with their oversexed, well-fed lives - and who have the lack of tact to complain about their emptiness. gosh i guess this turned out to be a review of 3 books!but The Rules of Attraction is something different, something special. its playfulness with narrative and perspective is actually rather brilliant. i'm not sure i've read another novel where fully one-third of the narrative was a jerk-off fabrication by one of the characters (one who isn't a psychotic serial killer, that is). perhaps prior to Rules, Ellis somehow exorcised all that repulsive self-pity that inundanted Zero and then replaced it with malevolent wit. and better yet, he puts his usual snarkiness in the mouths of characters who - although soulless - still genuinely face more life challenges than his prior student portraits. most surprising of all, the nearly-marginal story of the suicide: bitterly ironic, entirely moving, and wonderfully written. and hey, there's even a teensy little light at the end of the tunnel that didn't feel forced. good job, Ellis. i never thought i'd say that phrase!
552816463	At first glance, this book is pointless. It's an endless loop of drugs, sex, and parties. It has no plot, it begins and ends in the middle of a sentence, there are too many characters strewn about, too many labels, too many songs, too many places. You finish the book and for a moment you think 'wait - what? That's it?' but you realize yes, that is, in fact, 'it'. The apathy Ellis invokes in his readers, shows in his characters, is still masterfully done. He breezes past topics like suicide and abortion which, when you give the way they're treated some thought, make you sick. His narrative choices may seem haphazard with the shifting first person perspective, the shifting tenses (AND THE RANDOM PASSAGE IN FRENCH WHICH I STILL CANNOT UNDERSTAND AFTER GOOGLE TRANSLATE), but it allows him to show how self absorbed his characters are and how differently they view the same things, the same people. He slips in little clues that tie in with events that are mentioned in passing and if you're paying attention to seemingly random paragraphs and details, you get a greater sense of what Ellis is trying to get across to the reader. I am constantly left wanting to read more of his work.
1074660442	This book may have sounded contrived to some, but to me it was exactly the way I remember being and feeling in college. The dorm, cafeteria and party scenes are brilliant and so are the fast travel sections. When I recently read The Sorrows of Young Mike, it felt like a sequel because the characters were also nihilistic college students, horny and self-involved. It, along with The Rules of Attraction, touches on similar issues that hardly affect the main characters, as they are busy thinking about themselves.
2958933824	First published in 1987, Ellis' sophomore effort is a postmodern novel of manners illustrating the lives of rich college students at a mock version of the author's alma mater, Bennington School (Donna Tartt also attended this institution and used it in The Secret History). Sure, the text has the satirical elements that are typical for Ellis, but this is by no means an American Psycho - rather, the text explores the psyche of young people haunted by their childhoods and parental baggage (divorce, mental and physical illness, dysfunctional bonds and communication), which leads to a sense of purposelessness and disaffection, a void they try to fill with parties, sex and drugs: Less Than Zero, but with less of a punch. The novel frequently changes its POV, mainly oscillating between the three main characters, and relies heavily on dialogue, with a lot of it just exposing exchanges of words without reaching common ground. One of the protagonists is Lauren, an artistically-minded senior who misses her boyfriend who left to travel Europe. Lauren has sex with several students and ends up in a love triangle with Sean and Paul. Sean is the brother of THE Patrick Bateman, so the main character of American Psycho, he is very into drugs and believes he loves Lauren - and maybe he also sleeps with beautiful Paul. The latter is bisexual and upholds that he hooks up with both Lauren and Sean. And there is also a cast of minor characters, among them Clay from Less Than Zero who of course modulates his signature line: "People are afraid to merge on campus after midnight". Well played, Clay. I have to say though that while I generally love Ellis, this one starts out very slow and only picks up speed around the halfway point, and then gets some serious drive. There are also some lengths, and while the dialogue is meant to convey emotional emptiness, it still has to captivate - which it doesn't do throughout. The evocation of atmosphere is expertly done though, especially through the music references and description of people, and flashy sentences like "But what else is there to do at college except drink beer or slash your wrists?" (Lauren) give it the typical pop lit feel that would inspire a whole literary movement in Germany (Benjamin von Stuckrad-Barre, Christian Kracht, Moritz von Uslar...). The Shards really shows how Ellis has grown. Will I still read his whole backlist? You bet.
1228144	This was my introduction into the world of Bret Easton Ellis, and I fell hopelessly in love.I couldn't believe that someone could put together a written work, which not only emanates the characters hyper-sexed-over-zealous-self-conscious-unaware-searching-for-love-not-knowing sadness, but uses language to reinforce its themes. It would seem confusing, but at my first read, it was what I was feeling at that moment (minus the drugs, those came later). Rules of Attraction, at its base, is a novel about communication and the inefficiency of words. It is also a meditation on reality, what is it to who? A theme that pops up in Easton Ellis's later works.As Lillian has reminded me, it does start and end mid-sentence, only in the brillance of Easton Ellis's mind should a slice-of-life story cut in like any other voyeur, "mid-action" (just as simple as listening in on a phone conversation or looking through your neighboor's window). Easton Ellis makes the reader a voyeur, and yes, it made me feel dirty as it should, but a good dirty.
1559538170	3.5 StarsThe Rules of Attraction is one of those stories that makes you feel slightly uneasy while reading it. It had the feel of both A Clockwork Orange and Trainspotting in the sense that it is so over the top and risqué. The Rules of Attraction is unlike anything that I have ever read before.I had never read anything from Bret Easton Ellis before, although American Psycho has been sitting on my shelf for quite some time now. I came across The Rules of Attraction at a local thrift shop and I recognized the authors name which helped in my decision to pick it up.The Rules of Attraction tells the intersecting stories of three prominent characters (Sean Bateman, Lauren Hyde & Paul Denton) as they experience their college years in the 1980’s. The story is told by jumping back and forth between short vignettes that showcase each of these characters perspectives. Every now and then, a minor character tells their story from their perspective through their own little mini vignette.It is definitely no secret that the 80’s were a wild decade, but holy shit does this story ever make that time period sound completely over the top and insane. I have always been slightly disappointed that I didn’t get to experience the 80’s, mainly because the music during that decade contains some of my favourite songs and artists of all time. After reading The Rules of Attraction however, I’m wondering if I would have ever been able to survive going to college during this era.I loved the idea of hearing the different character’s perspectives, especially when they were describing the same scenes. Rather than have the exact same scene play out repeatedly, each character is so fucked up on either drugs, alcohol or something in between, that their stories are all completely different. For example, when Sean believes that Lauren is in love with him, only to jump to her perspective to find out she just likes to have him around to keep her company while waiting for her “boyfriend” to return from Europe. It’s moments like these that actually make this story more realistic and believable. No two people are going to have the exact same interpretation of a moment. Everyone experiences things differently. I’m still unsure if the relationship between Paul and Sean ever even happened. Not knowing the definite outcome is something that might drive some readers nuts. Hell, it usually drives me nuts, but for whatever reason, it worked perfectly within this story.The characters were all unique from one another. While a lot of their drug and relationship habits were similar, each character had their own individual voice. I can’t say that I particularly enjoyed Lauren’s moments. I found her a little annoying and not that interesting. There was just something about her that I wasn’t very fond of. I felt a little indifferent when it came to Sean. He started out interesting, but as the story went on he started to feel a little redundant. Paul however, was my absolute favourite. He felt real and relatable. While he seemed the most sane out of the three main characters, I think it may be possible that he was the most insane. Like I mentioned earlier, I still can’t tell if his relationship with Sean ever even really happened.In terms of the minor character vignettes, I could have done without a lot of them. The random French paragraphs from Bertrand’s perspective felt out of place. I understood bits of it here and there, but I wasn’t about to go google translate the whole thing. The one vignette that I think was rather awesome and beneficial was that of Patrick, Sean’s older brother. Yes…Patrick as in Patrick Bateman…as in THE Patrick Bateman featured in Bret Easton Ellis’ later novel, American Psycho. I didn’t even realize the two books were connected, regardless of how minor, until I put two and two together and realized that the two characters shared the same last name.One of the main characteristics about The Rules of Attraction that made it so unique was the fact that each character perspective was told using a different writing style. Sean felt very chaotic, Lauren felt very quick and to the point while Paul felt the most sophisticated. The writing was very quick and extremely fast paced to start, however, it kept that steady rhythm throughout the entire novel which started to get old. It was so fast-paced the entire time that there was no peak in the story.When I first opened my copy of The Rules of Attraction, I thought I was missing a page as the first opening paragraph starts mid-sentence. Once I reached the end of the novel, the same things happens again except it ended mid-sentence. Once again, this is something that might piss off a lot of readers, but I found it to be quite memorable and unique. It felt to me as though this represented the idea that we as the reader are just witnessing a little snippet of these character’s lives. We jumped in and we jumped out, just like that.I did enjoy The Rules of Attraction for the most part. It was definitely unlike anything I have ever read before. I enjoyed the quick and fast-paced nature of the writing. I’m really eager to read my copy of American Psycho as soon as possible. I’m curious to know if it will make any connections to the Rules of Attraction or if it is even told in the same writing style. If you are looking for something slightly fucked up and over the top, I would say that The Rules of Attraction is definitely for you.--Initial Post Reading Thoughts:This is probably one of the most uniquely written novels I have ever read. The overall tone of the story reminded me a lot of A Clockwork Orange and Trainspotting. It's one of those stories that feels a little unsettling for some reason. The Rules of Attraction is definitely very risque and slightly over the top, but that's part of what makes it so alluring.
1343090213	This book made me so glad to be 30…The blurb says that this book is about the “death of romance”… But I feel this is a little bit more complicated than that. Sure “The Rules of Attraction” follows four unspeakably awful undergrads as they get tangled up in the most fucked up love-triangle I’ve ever read. As they agonize childishly over their various experiences, disappointments and mistakes, it’s hard to feel for them: none of them have any moral compass, maturity, honesty or self-awareness. They project huge, unrealistic expectations on each other, but never vocalize them, then hold bitter grudges against each other for failing tests they didn’t know they were going through…Is this hilarious or sad? I guess that depends on how cynical you are! Ellis knows how to write, so this snapshot of college life and it’s horribly gritty and immoral details is an interesting read, but it is also repulsive. But that’s just his style: if you have never read him before, you should know that vacuous, depraved and apathetic characters are his thing. The lenses of dark humour with which he looks at the college experience can be very funny: but it is only funny because it’s pathetic, and I am not sure I feel inclined to laugh at that.That being said, the multiple POVs of the same events is fascinating and entertaining. I'm always mesmerized by the way people interpret the exact same moment in such a wildly different ways, and these kids being unable to communicate adequately, well... you can imagine how that goes!Several readers and critics have pointed out the realism of what Ellis describes in this book, assuming that everyone to ever set foot on a college campus fell into a bottomless pit of weed, drunk blackouts and awkward sex. Maybe I am a huge nerd, but I went to college to get a degree… If the “Rules of Attraction” is as realistic as they say, I’m very glad I was not in that crowd.Marginally better than “Less Than Zero”, not as good as “American Psycho”. I think my Ellis-reading experiment is over.
3445651210	'The Rules of Attraction' is a dark satire that follows the lives of hedonistic and unsympathetic college students. Centred around an unusual love triangle between its three protagonists, the novel is a multi-perspective tale that depicts different forms of desperation and abrasiveness. Packed with page-turning scandal and sharp narration, the book is a strangely intoxicating read that quickly moves from sensational events to bizarre tragedies. Overall, this novel largely portrays the world as a dog-eat-dog environment, and implies that the idea of being loved and cared about by your peers is totally daft.
113335345	People who did not like this book simply did not understand it. While this book has the ability to stand on it's on, the real genius is how it acts ad a platform that allows ellis's characters (from all other works) to interact with one another outside the narcissism that confines their own stories. Those who complain that this book lacks plot or character growth, have failed to ask why that is. This book is an introspective account, told in first person narrative, from various (mainly three) perspectives. The setting is not Camden college, but in the minds of these young characters. Ellis brilliantly depicts how the events that take place over a few months time, are perceived and interpreted by those involved. The book begins and ends in the middle of a sentence, symbolically stating that perhaps the reader should interpret the work as a whole in the same way. This book is about the here and now, the present moments of these peoples lives. Any beginning or end would provide a context that might and most likely would
543138204	At the beginning of the year, I decided that in 2020 I would devote some time to working through my sprawling to-read list, whether that meant actually reading the books or throwing them out. A second-hand copy of The Rules of Attraction had been sitting on my shelves for years, and I rather thought I might have missed the moment to read and/or enjoy it. Perhaps rather embarrassingly, though, I loved it. It's nihilistic, sure, but also SO well observed, hyper-quotable, and parts of it had me in stitches (especially the scene in which a group of students rush their friend to hospital only for a bizarrely incompetent doctor to declare him dead – while he's sitting up and talking). The characters are almost universally loathsome, but – and I wonder whether this is something I would've missed if I'd read it when I was 20 – there's vulnerability and naivety detectable in their desperate antics. The novel as a whole is fast, funny and brilliantly awful, but it's also somewhat more human than I was expecting.TinyLetter
2187819993	A tale of hedonism from Bret Easton Ellis, filled with sex and drugs.Bret Easton Ellis is of my biggest influences as an author and this is probably the Bret Easton Ellis novel that most influenced Drug Gang. It contains similar themes and social commentary. To quote from the book itself, “I think we've all lost some sort of feeling.” This postmodern masterwork gives great insight into the possible impact and outcomes of a nihilistic mindset.
2736516392	50th book of 2020.This is probably the worst time to read Ellis, as he's so damn depressing. Disaffection is the perfect word for his books, the way you feel when you're reading them. (I must say, also, how great is this cover? Not sure why it is, but I think it's great.)Despite this, by Goodreads standards, has the same rating as Less Than Zero, American Psycho and Lunar Park, I think this has been the best Ellis yet. Let me try to explain. American Psycho is just Less Than Zero on some serious, serious drugs - but bad drugs, the ones that give you the worst trips, like nightmares. This, funnily enough, actually being the novel between the two, is a nice middle-ground. There isn't too much violence, and though it's everything I expected, drugs, sex, depression, suicide... it's not quite as bad as what comes next for Bret Easton Ellis - though nothing is.There's quite a nostalgic slope coming out of my University library; that's a funny way of describing it. But, I couldn't fathom the number of times I've walked down that slope talking to someone about books, or classes, or food, or money. In that respect, it's a nostalgic slope. The other day, I was speaking to a woman I've never met before. Middle-aged, quite quiet, so the conversation always required a lot of attention, and gentle. She was nice. She told me that she loved Bret Easton Ellis, which surprised me. I gave a spiel about my thoughts on Ellis (hearing how it sounded as I said it, and felt sick at myself) and she agreed with me. You don't want to look but you can't help yourself, was my main point. It's a window into another life, too. And I think Ellis gets flak because what he's writing isn't romantic. He's writing about a lost generation, like Fitzgerald and Hemingway did, but their generation didn't have copious amounts of sex, or do enough cocaine to kill an elephant, or wave machetes around. It's a difficult relationship with Ellis, it's awe, but also disgust. I guess that's what makes him so interesting. Rules of Attraction is more obviously scathing. It's ironic. It's even playful. Here are some quotes... They aren't nice. I'll say that now. A boy's thoughts on Kafka in a lecture:'Well, like, the dude was totally depressed because, well, the dude turned into a bug and freaked out. (He's not wrong, credit to him. Though maybe 'freaked out' is a little generous of Samsa's reaction.)Norris pays and ask the shy, acne-scarred cashier if she knows who wrote 'Notes from the Underground'. The girl, who's so homely you couldn't sleep with her for money, not for anything, smiles and says no, and that he can look in the bestseller paperbacks if he'd like. We leave the store and Norris sneers a little too meanly, "Townies are so ignorant."A particularly crude quote, from a poetry group:'Yeah, I've been working on this concept that when Man fucks animals, He's fucking Nature, since He's becomes so computerised and all.' Stump stops and takes a swallow from a silver flask he brings out of his pocket and says, 'I'm working on the dog section now where this guy ties a dog up and is having intercourse with it because He thinks dog is God. D-O-G. . .G-O-D. God spelled backwards. Get it? See?'Most interestingly are the character crossovers. One of our protagonists in this is Patrick Bateman's brother, Sean Bateman. Of course, Patrick Bateman is our American Psycho. He even has several pages from his perspective, though the voice doesn't quite match what we get later on, so Ellis maybe hadn't quite found out what he would become. The other interesting one, is Clay's several pages, who was our protagonist in Less Than Zero - he was the only voice we heard in that novel, compared to the many in this one. So all in all, a good Ellis book. Does that make it a 'good' book? I'm not sure. Yes and no. Do I like Ellis: yes and no.
8045450829	Another writer I’ve always delayed reading. This grew on me the longer it went on. 80s college kids. Different narrators, some who are frustratingly unreliable. Tons of sex. Booze. Drugs. Betrayal. People being awful to each other. Sounds like a fun time, right? Hahaha. Well, I’m surprised I liked it because the first third or so didn’t really grab me. I hated everyone in it. But, I was interested. It’s truly dark in parts, darkly funny in others. Also, if a book had a soundtrack this would be a great one. Lots of my favorite bands were brought up or talked about. Talking Heads, REM, New Order, Roxy Music. Many more were mentioned. I kept putting the book down to listen to a song I hadn’t heard in years.
6668692983	Spend a semester in the 1980’s at a remote New Hampshire liberal arts college where rules are nonexistent. There’re the drama students that are vaguely gay, the unhinged fine arts students, the pretentious writers and poets. Everyone’s on drugs, depressed and yearning; for escape, for release, for connection, for more drugs. But majors change as fast as relationships and identity is fluid or perhaps nonexistent, boundaries not even worth considering. Alternating perspectives establish these characters as having no real character. Sure they make decisions, often the poorest ones, but can we trust them? When events are recounted by another in not quite the same way?‘I wasn't acting on passion. I was simply acting.’This novel has cemented my obsession with the BEELU (Bret Easton Ellis Literary Universe) which in many ways reminds me of JD Salinger’s world of the Glass family; both in the weaving of characters and the metafiction element of the author’s presence amongst his characters. This kind of writing just really tickles my freaking fancy. There are cameos galore: Clay post-Less Than Zero and not coping, Patrick Bateman’s compulsive liar brother Sean. Alternate reality Judy Poovey.AND——as a Donna Tartt stan I can’t not mention the weird group of classics students ‘probably roaming the countryside sacrificing farmers and performing pagan rituals’ (this was published five years before the Secret History btw) ??. What I wouldn’t give to go back in time and spend a weekend at Bennington College... but only if I could take a taser or something‘A great numb feeling washes over me as I let go of the past and look forward to the future. Pretend to be a vampire. I don't really need to pretend, because it's who I am, an emotional vampire. I've just come to expect it. Vampires are real. That I was born this way. That I feed off of other people's real emotions. Search for this night's prey. Who will it be?’I see why Easton Ellis is controversial, why he is not for everyone. But he is so for me. I’d heard so much about how dark and twisted he was, and sure. But why would I want to read about the disillusionment and cruelty of the elite in a form that shies away from the horror? He commits fully, moreover his work is fucking funny. Like I was laughing out loud. And I think the reactions truly cement his satire skills because this feels blown up, dramatised, but in no way inauthentic. Detached and hollow, but is the absence of something nothing? Or something else altogether?
1808581328	This was so good. Not as good as American Psycho, but better than Less Than Zero. Following a group of friends as Camden Collage it details their life of partying, drugs, booze and sex. It was seriously amazing. Clay was in it and so was Patrick Bateman which made me very happy. Plus Donna Tartt reference!
3774361569	Rido anch'io, apro la porta, guardo Masur, che sta ridendo, ancora stupito, e poi chiudo la porta, programmando un'overdose.--------- Voglio conoscerti, - uggiola Sean. - Cosa? - Conoscerti. Voglio conoscerti. - Mi supplica. - Cosa significa? Conoscermi? - gli chiedo. - Conoscermi? Nessuno mai conosce nessuno. Mai. Tu non mi conoscerai mai.
2203020738	''He likes him. He likes her. I think she likes someone else, probably me. That’s all. No logic.'' Hella horny college kids. Also huge cunts, huge narcissists. The movie, which i adore and own on DVD, is way better.Love the weird BEE *Bret Easton Ellis* universe. ''-I was in that class too.-I didn't ever see u in there.-That's why i failed it.'' Bruh, such a mood.Fuuuuck, i miss uni. Yes granted i went to class and then after like 1-2hours left to go to a cafe but still. Online classes ain't fun. Haven't attended any but that's because i work.
2667677475	Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/Gf87It-R--c
5027933518	3.0 StarsI have come to realize that this author has a specific kind of story he likes to write. This is another novel about unlikeable young people doing drugs and sleeping around. This one had good parts but it didn't fully hold my interest.
1890005	Although I've always intended to read Ellis' American Psycho, I read this book today in an entirely unintended way (my Little's fiance brought two books with him to Ohio State University's graduation ceremony and he let me borrow the one he wasn't reading). It's definitely a very interesting book, from its purpose to the way it's executed.The Rules of Attraction mainly follows three members of a love triangle - Lauren, Paul, and Sean - while fleshing out the story with some interjections from other characters. It takes place during one semester of college, although going to class takes up very little of the students' time. They're mainly concerned with getting laid, high, and drunk. It's extremely different from any other sort of teen comedy, since characters in movies such as Van Wilder or American Pie are generally pretty likable and often experience poignant moments during their depravity. Lauren, Paul, Sean, and their classmates seem to operate on one level - extreme narcissism. The characters' differences in perspective about the same events sharply highlights how self-absorbed and unable to connect with anyone they are. Everyone is madly in love with someone (and that 'someone' changes weekly), but no one ever talks, and beauty and fuckability are tantamount to being loved. At the end of the novel, each character notes that he or she hasn't changed, which flies in the face of normal fiction, where characters are dynamic and their journeys serve a purpose. Major events - abortions, a suicide, the death of one parent and the divorce of another - have absolutely no effect on these people.This complete unlikability might leave the reader turned off, but the way Ellis handles it redeems it. An unsubtle reading of it might miss the dark humor (which none of the characters are aware of, of course). Ellis seems to be both mocking and mourning the characters as he writes about them, and the fact that Camden College is modeled on his own college suggests he's commenting on things he witnessed firsthand.Two notes - the book both starts and stops in the middle of sentences (which threw me when I opened it, convinced it was a misprint), and Sean's older brother Patrick pops up later as the main character in the well-known American Psycho.
4768985157	Secondo romanzo di Ellis, pubblicato a 23 anni (…), immerso nel suo classico universo disilluso, cinico, vuoto, cupo, a tratti struggente. Inanella narrazioni in prima persona che spesso si contraddicono a vicenda, con frasi brevi e dialoghi che giocano col nonsense, o solo col fatto che a nessuno qui interessa davvero ascoltare cosa hanno da dire gli altri. Apatia e disinteresse a profusione che fanno pensare al vecchio Meursault catapultato tra sesso, droghe, sbronze, manipolazioni emotive, stupri, suicidi (o tentativi di). Cameo di Clay, già in Meno di zero, e di Patrick Bateman, idolo nel fondamentale American Psycho. Si ascoltano molto i Talking Heads. Ha una sua indiscutibile epocalità, ma richiede pure il giusto mood.[79/100]Frasario minimo/°Tutte le voci sono diventate indistinguibili l’una dall’altra, compresa la mia°Voglio scoparmi Sara di nuovo. Fa dei pompini da favola, mi ricordo. O era un’altra?°Vedo alcuni graffiti sul mio conto nel bagno e faccio uno sforzo per ricordarmi se è vero°Dove vai una volta che sei venuto? La disillusione ti colpisce°A quella del consultorio psichiatrico ho detto che sento avvicinarsi l’apocalisse. Lei mi ha domandato come procedono le lezioni di flauto°Ma cos’era poi la poesia, o qualunque altra cosa, al paragone di quelle tette?°Ho imparato più dai Black Flag di quanto abbia mai imparato da Stevens o Cummings o Yeats o anche Lowell°Si gela
5964803947	4,5 ⭐
12146687	I loved the Roger Avary film version of this book, so I felt like I owed it to myself to read it. That said, the two are very, very different, and as much as it pains the book snob in me to say it, the movie was far superior. Maybe it's because the setting of the book (the mid-80s) feels so obviously dated, or because the characters seem so schizophrenic, but I just felt like the movie was a little more...real.Honestly, it probably hurt to have gone into the book having seen the film many, many times (if you haven't seen it, you should; it's quite the underrated gem). I went into it with certain expectations of the characters that were drastically different from Bret Easton Ellis's actual depiction. I kept waiting for the characters to revert back to the way they acted in the movie, or reveal that some of the hook-ups and such were just dreams, and so I wasn't able to appreciate the characters for who they were until halfway through, when I realized what I saw was what I got.That said, the book itself is quite clever. I can't emphasize enough how much I loved the format, and I'm a sucker for the little precious tricks Ellis employs, such as having a chapter written by the French character written completely in French, or having the book start and stop in mid-sentence. So, if for no other reason, it's worth reading and treasuring for the formatting. However, on the whole it feels very much like a product of the era in which it was written, much like some of the films spawned by Ellis books are quintessentially 80s movies (Less Than Zero, American Psycho, which has the 80s yuppie consumerism as it's main theme even though it wasn't filmed until the late 90s).Avary was wise to redevelop the film into something more current, and it paid dividends. However, it shows that there was something to the book's theme--disaffected youth is still very much a part of our country's rich, liberal arts campuses; they just wear better clothes
40586248	And here I thought all New England had to brag about is the Patriots - turns out they have some really happening colleges - or at least had in the 80s, where Brett Easton Ellis' story of sex, drugs, rape, abortion and suicide takes place.The story is told from a lot of different perspectives, but mainly we follow Lauren, Paul and Sean. Lauren, who has dated Paul but after Paul and Sean are no long dating, dates Sean - but still they all 'see' other people. In the beginning, it's hard to figure out what's going on - who's doing what to whom exactly - but the longer you get in the book, the clearer it gets. That is, as clear as it can get for people who are constantly on something and doing somebody.For me, the strongest point of the book is how the different persons experience totally different things -although they are at the same party or even in the same bed - and how they put different value on the things happening. And how misconceptions arise due to the heave drug intake, most of them are constantly on.But mostly, they just don't really care. About anything.No wonder that these characters could possibly grow up and become Patrick Batemans, of American Psycho fame, and not only little brother Sean Bateman could be heading down this track. None of them really sober up long enough to think about what's actually going on and why that girl tried to kill herself. All they care about is how to get the next lay or the next fix.The story is so well crafted - with an open beginning and an open end - when you finish the book, nothing have really moved or changed but still you feel different, you have caught a glimpse into these people's life and although none of it was pretty, you still care for them even though they are completely self-absorped...Highly recommended for those who can stomach it!
3300094868	Even Ellis agrees in his autobiographical novel, Lunar Park, that there was no discernible earnestness from his side while writing his sophomore book to outdo himself. He already knew whatever he'd write post Less Than Zero would sell, and the perfunctoriness shows.The point of the novel is the nonchalant carelessness and some startling apathy one has during college. But it's too direction-less for my liking.
25427290	I hate Bret Easton Ellis. This book isn't the only reason, but it was the beginning of my distate for his pretentious observations on terrible people who do terrible things with societies blessing. Whether I'm missing the point or just not the intended audience for his tripe, I ask you why anyone would want to spend the time it takes to read his novels with these characters.
6774212110	super immersive, felt i was right there with all the college students. i love the voice too.
2576126600	In questo romanzo, "Le regole dell'attrazione", si sente forte e chiaro l'eco di Joan Didion (la scena dell'aborto di Lauren, quel brano in cui Sean ricorda l'ultima volta che ha visto il padre, le corse in macchina ...), c'è questa disperazione ricca e stonata e i personaggi sono sempre così "stoned" - dall'alcol, dalle droghe, dal sesso inutile e aspro.Avrei voluto sottolineare decine di passi, soprattutto quello dove parla Victor, verso la fine, degli stupidi problemi di quei giovani borghesucci del college, ma lo dico sempre senza astio. Mi piacerebbe pensare ancora, come ai vecchi tempi di Meno di zero: "salvate Clay, salvate Blair!", ma poi lo sappiamo tutti che chi si vuole salvare si salva sempre da solo. La passione va nutrita e i rapporti umani che ci salveranno li dobbiamo costruire giorno per giorno; forse anche questo significa diventare adulti, non solo scoprirci fragili ma imparare a volerci bene interi, fragilità comprese. Senza più abbandonarci al piacere sadico di autodistruggerci, che è così "facile" e così poetico.(Non ho detto una parola sugli anni Ottanta, perché solo attraverso i brani musicali ascoltati dai protagonisti mi ricordavo che stavamo parlando degli anni Ottanta e non della mia generazione. Immagino che comunque un buon romanzo tenda a "parlare" al di là del tempo)
350712	Another reader mentions that this book has no center, I'd say he's on target and that it may have been intentional. I enjoyed it. I reads like 20 somethings who are trying hard to be everything they aren't as they try on different attitudes, life philosophies, designer drugs, sexualities. High school and college years tend to spin by too quickly and are remembered in spurts like the friendships made, the crushes that came and went, the crisis of the moment that pales in comparison to anything pressing after age 27. I don't know many who recall this period of life in much of a linear manner. There are some wonderful moments in this novel, moments I wish I had had the balls or perception to live. But like much of Ellis's writing, the characters leave a lot to be desired in the end, we care about them about as much as they care about anything but their own pleasures. In Rules of Attraction, I attribute it to age and the angst of figuring things out. The center oozes out and congeals into something else - sometimes as in Ellis' The Informists, something not so entirely different than what it was.
2257559027	"I giorni passavano così rapidamente che il tempo sembrava essersi fermato."Gli studenti della Camden se la passano molto bene. Hanno un sacco di soldi, possono studiare ciò che gli pare, fa niente se per un anno gli va di studiare Teatro e per un anno Informatica (e poi Poesia e poi Lettere classiche), ogni due giorni prendono parte a feste distruttive con musica distruttiva, e insomma che spasso la loro vita.Gli studenti della Camden se la passano molto male. Hanno un sacco di niente, non possono comprendersi l'un l'altro, fa molto se per un giorno non riescono a farsi di qualcosa, ogni due giorni quelle stesse feste distruttive sono una tragica fuga per accecarsi l'un l'altro e potersi guardare ora ciechi nuovamente negli occhi, così da poter ridere ridere e godere, scopare scopare e godere, e affogare le proprie ansie, le proprie paure, il proprio niente. Il proprio vuoto.Il vuoto incolmabile, l'incapacità di potere immaginarsi un futuro e la cruda autodistruzione sono elementi centrali di questo splendido testo. L'atmosfera intensissima, notturna e insieme biancastra - un continuo alternarsi fra le notti, folli e intense, e le giornate, tranquille, noiose, puri momenti di passaggio prima della prossima follia - è spettacolare, attraverso la cosiddetta "narrazione a videoclip" ho vissuto in prima persona scene vivissime, sempre più mi sono affezionato al clima generale, non avrei mai voluto uscirne.Non è solo merito della materia trattata. Lo stile è incisivo e preciso oltre che certo della sua precisione, è un minimalismo che talvolta è quasi da report e che fa bene intendere i volumi gli spazi e i movimenti. La struttura frammentaria, polifonica, aperta, ha il sapore di un flusso: un flusso di voci, di attrazioni, di sguardi insicuri, di fraintendimenti, di corpi sfatti e pesanti abbandonati su letti caldi, sporchi, freddi."Cosa direbbero i miei se sapessero che questo è tutto quello che faccio qui? Ubriacarmi, fottere costantemente. Mi disconoscerebbero? Mi darebbero più soldi? Cosa?""Quelli del posto ci guardavano con sospetto, Sean giocava a biliardo, beveva birra, io mi trascinavo verso il jukebox, infilavo i quarti di dollaro, selezionavo l'F 17, arrivavano le prime tensioni, mi ritrascinavo dove stava seduto Sean, adesso vicino al banco, coi caschi della moto ammucchiati vicino ai bicchieri, e lui muoveva le labbra seguendo la canzone. [...]"
5616832311	Though it bears many of the hallmarks of his great works, this was probably the weakest of Bret's novels. He's much better when he focuses on the internality of one character. Here, there are too many shifting voices, too closely packed together, and they all blended together. That may well have been the point, but it was confusing to follow at times and the voices weren't distinctive enough.
6464421707	if time travel was real you could find me at bennington college in the 80s
3925997531	Dopo meno di zero continuo con il secondo romanzo di Ellis. Stavolta siamo in un college, a Camden, nel New Hampshire, la voce narrante non è più una sola ma le vicende vengono raccontate da più personaggi, in modo a volte contraddittorio a seconda del punto di vista (“nessuno conoscerà mai nessuno”).Stessi temi di Meno di zero (protagonisti ricchi, droghe, alcol, anni 80, sesso, assenza di limiti), stessa atmosfera soffocante, amplificata dallo spostamento di location (non più Los Angeles ma un claustrofobico college della costa atlantica), stessa ironia, stesso cinismo, stessa penna geniale.Appunto: fanno una comparsa anche il Clay del romanzo precedente e un certo Patrick Bateman, fratello di uno dei protagonisti, che qui sembra quasi normale...
5583664876	Dit is echt verreweg het allerleegste boek dat ik ooit heb gelezen
2757324187	"Got you. You're mine now. For the rest of the day, week, month, year, life. Have you guessed who I am? Sometimes I think you have. Sometimes when you're standing in a crowd I feel those sultry, dark eyes of yours stop on me. Are you too afraid to come up to me and let me know how you feel? I want to moan and writhe with you and I want to go up to you and kiss your mouth and pull you to me and say "I love you I love you I love you" while stripping. I want you so bad it stings."The rules of attraction is not a likeable book, but surely is an unforgettable one. Love it or hate it, once you have read it you really can't let it go, or feel indifferent about it. Wandering through a library or a book shop, even 20 years from now, you will see this book and remember how strange and dark and pointless and sad it was.In one word: how lifelike it was. It follows the lives and affairs of a group of students at Camden's college in the Eighties, but don't expect to find a linear plot or a storyline whatsoever. It's like the chain of events broke and all that's left is a bunch of different points of view, all disjointed. This can be disorienting, but I really found it original and brilliant to show that the characters live their lives one party at the time. The writing style is raw, simple, often graphic. TW for abortion jokes, rape jokes, sexist jokes, homophobic jokes, racist jokes and everything that now Makes America Great Again. I usually loathe finding this kind of content in books, but here it felt really appropriate: Camden's students are a bunch of rotten people, so their language and their humour completely mirror it. I feel really conflicted giving it a rating, because I hated the characters and I didn't find any development in their personalities, but the truth is that not everybody learns from his mistakes. Not everybody moves on. Not everybody grows up.Deal with it.Rock and roll.
1068285852	Cronologicamente è stato pubblicato nel 1987, due anni dopo Meno di Zero, tuttavia l’ho trovato un lavoro inferiore rispetto al primo libro.Le regole dell’attrazione ha la stessa identica tematica di Meno di zero, narra sempre dell’alienazione nichilista dei giovani degli anni ’80, della promiscuità sessuale e della dipendenza verso qualsiasi sostanza, ma nella storia non accade mai davvero nulla di che (a parte due eventi che si differenziano dal resto ma comunque non riescono ad avere una risonanza).In pratica questo libro è formato dalle voci di più personaggi che raccontano una sequela caotica di relazioni amorose senza amore, in un college americano in cui nessuno studia.La narrazione va avanti in maniera estremamente ripetitiva nel descrivere feste, droghe e sesso, ma sono comunque descrizioni molto superficiali, meccaniche, senza nessun picco emotivo, senza nessun colpo di scena rilevante e anche il lettore arriva a fine lettura senza aver provato assolutamente nulla.Certo, probabilmente è stato voluto, probabilmente l’autore riesce nuovamente nel suo intento di dipingere talmente bene la vacuità di una generazione perduta che in questo libro anche il lettore si sente allo stesso modo: vacuo, spento e annoiato.
2934580506	5 días y 250 páginas después, el cuarto libro que leo autor. Fue un buen momento de la vida para leerlo, ya que no soy ni tan joven como para asombrarme, ni tan viejo para asustarme, el maravilloso paisaje de excesos, drogas y sexo sin control estadounidense. ¿Hay tanto más que decir?Personajes jovenes que se acuestan con todos, que dificilmente se acuerdan de que hicieron el día de ayer, que han probado todas las drogas, y se la pasan más de la mitad del tiembo ahogados en alcohol, esto es el retrato de los jovenes, no solo estadounidenses, sino de gran parte del mundo. Follar. Alcohol. Drogas. Una existencia vacía, plagada de burdos intentos para llenarla, de una forma u otra, en esta ocasión no queremos descifrar que hay antes que el cero, ahora queremos comprender las fatidicas reglas de la atracción y como funciona en los jovenes... sin importar la sexualidad. Si usted es demasiado pudido, por favor no lea este libro, pero puede ver la pelicula.Probablemente habrá reseña.
228902646	Felt this book was repetitive. Every page was sex, drugs, and half-wit heartbreak. No plot and no climax. The book tries to make up for its lack of narrative by pandering to those seeking a voyeuristic view of horny co-eds. But nothing happens. The story goes on and on. The same thing happening on every page. The characters never come away with anything for the better or worse. What was the point?
4580683309	Liking Bret Easton Ellis is only a red flag when men do it. When I do it it’s cool and completely fine.
1473953883	I probably would've liked it better if I hadn't dragged (drug?) it out so long-kind of ruined the effect (affect?).
7552201084	This book opens with a group of college kids in 1985 rambling at you, and you need to catch up. You’re already late. The sense of immediacy is so urgent that you have no time to think things through, and it’s not until page 50 that you realize you’re not reading a book, instead you’re living vicariously through these characters. And you’ll continue doing so, and you’ll love it.That is the power of Bret Easton Ellis’s signature writing style. For a book published in 1987, this story has more heft, purpose, and freedom than recent ones I’ve read attempting to tackle (and instead mock) the accurate and absolutely messy lives of college kids. It is a gem, a timecapsule of sorts, transporting any reader into a world of true honesty, timeless rebellion, and expression that is so important I’d say this is my favorite Bret Easton Ellis book so far. Paul, Sean, and Lauren are our four main characters that the narrative heavily focuses on, though we do occasionally hear from multiple others that inevitably cross paths. (Victor; Stuart; Mitchell; Eve, etc.) The book doesn’t play favorites, and it makes each individual stand out on their own, impressively so.My personal favorite was Paul, the sweet and naïve yet undoubtedly-himself boy who has exciting adventures as a semi-closeted gay guy and who has one of the most compelling road-trip chapters/plot lines I’ve read. Seriously, the whole trip to Massachusetts to visit his mother was my favorite section of the entire book. The bus and the guy who looks like Sean and “The Fountainhead” being pretentious and the hotel and nasty Richard and Mrs. Jared and the unfair horniness of early adulthood— I loved all of it. And his awkward and almost sad devotion/ limerence on Sean is a valuable and honest aspect of the story that made me feel compelled to Paul. There’s just something about his brain that appealed to me.Then there’s Sean and Lauren, who are painfully entertaining to follow despite (and perhaps because of) their big flaws. Sean Bateman is the younger brother of Patrick Bateman, the bloody protagonist of Ellis’s other novel, “American Pyscho” (who also makes a couple fun appearances in this book). Sean, like his brother, is perverse and always leaning on the side of danger, but he is also deeply insecure and has a huge crush on Lauren while simultaneously sleeping around with both guys and girls. His predicaments are incredibly interesting and I found myself just enchanted by what would happen next, especially regarding the huge amount of cash he owes a certain someone.And Lauren, the starry-eyed blonde (or at least I pictured her as a blonde the entire book) who bounces between friend groups and finds herself deeply missing somebody who hasn’t spent a millisecond thinking about her. Lauren to me seemed a bit on the blander side until her intriguing dynamic with Sean began to grow, which was when I became more engaged by her plot line.It’s not easy to take a myriad of characters and have them all tell different, rambly, dizzying stories basically at once, narrating the duration of a whole school year at a cold and heartless college in New Hampshire, but Ellis has such masterful control in his characters and their impulses that the book flows smoothly. It’s really interesting to see how the same situation plays out so incredibly differently depending on the perspective and the person we’re following. It feels like real life.Parties, drugs, alcohol, sex— these are all themes ever-present in basically all of Ellis’s book, but what makes these stand out in this particular book is the college setting, that raw freedom that comes with it, and the almost repetitive nature of college. I was able to truly take my time with this book simply because I didn’t want it to end so quickly and leave these already-fast-moving characters behind. God I loved it so much even writing this makes me sad because it’s over. Living in the richness of 1985 New Hampshire inside a college campus— it’s a luxury, a whole experience, with all the cool and the ugly and all the things I’m glad we left behind, but that are worth understanding.If you enjoy the movie “Heathers,” this book is going to be a delectable treat for you. It certainly was for me, and I’m so happy I got to read it and can’t recommend it enough. Read it! if you dare…In the words of Sean Bateman…Rock’n’roll. Deal with it.
5527310553	The Rules of Attraction by Bret Easton EllisThis one was good.My second time reading Ellis. It's interesting how similar American Psycho and this novel are, despite having dissimilar tones and tackling different slices of society. Both criticize the soulless lifestyle with little to no hope of any semblance of vivacity.Here, in each chapter, you'd certainly find the mentions of either drugs, alcohol, parties, or sex (usually combined all together). Each day of students described is mostly the same, the eternal cycle, devoid of meaning and feelings.What I loved the most were the chapters set outside of the regular stage, showcasing the protagonists in different surroundings and their inability to exist there. The narration itself set from various POVs was another great finding, helping to portray various thoughts on the same topic.It's a good book, but at times, it suffers from becoming repetetive. I'm pretty sure it was intentional, and yet it didn't make the book any good. I feel like American Psycho did it better with Partick's mentality getting progressively worse over the course of the book. Still, I'd get the novel a recommendation.
1954327520	Se lo stile rende benissimo un contesto quale è quello di ragazzi scapestrati, drogati e ubriachi per la maggior parte del tempo, dall'altro lato francamente il libro lascia un po' poco.Sembra di aver visto un film, qualcosa tra The Wolf of wall street e Paura e delirio a Las Vegas riuscito un po' male, dal momento che almeno quei film ti rimangono in mente.Tra scopate, fumate, pippate, tentati suicidi, tradimenti, e altri "drammi", viene da dire ma che razza di sbandati che sono i liceali americani degli anni '80!Comunque, tutto il lavoro lo fa lo stile di Ellis, che riesce a rendere piacevole leggere del caos giovanile e dell'edonismo americano.
4476903003	Pretty much a cycle of debauchery 😳
5903815647	Likte best det kapittelet som var på fransk, skjønte ikke noe av det men var likevel det eneste som ga meg noe
7807353301	Why did I spend money on this?
3207924414	رمان ((قوانین جذابیت)) از سه شخصیت اصلی به نامهای شان بیتمن، پل دنتون و لورن هیند،دو پسر و یک دختر تشکیل میشود؛در کنار ده ها شخصیت فرعی که در تک گویی درونی شخصیتها، یا همان <>،به انهااشاره می شود و گاهی هم یک پاراگراف را روایت میکنند.داستان در یک کالج خیالی به نام کالج کمدن اتفاق می افتد؛کالجی که هرچه هست جز کالج! بی هدفی و پوچی شخصیتها در برنامه های خود برای آینده،انحصار-سازی زندگی در لذت جویی که خود را در فضاهای شبانه روزی و بی پایان پارتیهای داستان،مستی ها و الکل و ابجوی داستان و "کام گیریهای یک شبه" از مضامینی هستند که در پیش زمینه تصویر ارائه شده به مخاطب دیده میشوند.اما مضامین پس زمینه ای،شاید با حدس وگمانهایی درباره فرهنگ دهه ی 90 امریکا به ویژه در حرفه فیلمسازی، ریشخند و پوزخندی به ژانر"رمانتیک کمدی"ست و در کل تمام ان تصاویرانتزاعی و رویایی و سانتی مانتالیستی که از عشق و دوست داشتن داریم؛عشق ارمانی و دوطرفه،فقط برای هم بودن و همدیگر را با این عشق شناختن،همگی توسط نویسنده و به وسیله اعمال و گفتارهای کاراکترها به باد تمسخر گرفته میشوند...ضمنا ((احساس یک طرفه)) هم مفهوم مهمی به چشم می آید، چون که شان به دنبال لورن است و پل با گرایشی همجنسگرایانه به دنبال شان،و لورن به مالیخولیای حاصل از فراق دوست پسر قدیمی،ویکتور(که شاید مهمترین شخصیت فرعیست)دچار است .قوانین جذابیت اما شاید به علت خامی و بی تجربگی نویسنده در زمان نشر و شاید هم به علتی کاملا تعمدی و خودآگاهانه، با تکرار و یکنواختی مفرط خواننده را دور میکند و تمام جزر ومد ها و افت وخیزهایی که برای یک داستان خوب لازم است را تقریبا از بین میبرد، به جز در چند صفحه ی اخر که فضا به کلی عوض می شود؛اما در کل، از صفحه ی 150-160 به بعد پارتیهای همیشگی و مستی های همیشگی و هیاهوی فناناپذیر سالنهای رقص و اتاق نشیمن ها و پذیراییها سوهان روح خواننده ی فلک زده می شود و تا جایی که بعضی وقتها فقط گرانی و تورم اقتصادی مربوط به موبایل ، باعث میشود موبایل را در دستانت نگه داری.اینکه چقدر این کتاب به مذاق خواننده ایرانی خوش میاید را نمیدانم؛اختلاف فرهنگی بین دو کشور زیاد است و از ان مهمتر، اختلاف شخصیتی بین جامعه س امروز ایران؛ اما شاید شناخت کشوری که سالهاست ورد زبان راننده تاکسی هایمان و معلم ها و سیاستمدارهایمان بوده، شناخت خرده فرهنگی از گذشته نه چندان دور ان،بزرگترین مشوق باشد.امتیاز واقعی:2.5
5218904410	the actual writing was good. the constantly switching povs made it hard to follow and it didnt really flow that well
2297474985	I'm probably in the minority that hated this book. Why, you may ask. You could say that one reason is that I'm a middle-aged guy who's been removed from the college partying/sex/drugs/rock'n'roll scene for many years. Darn. Them was good days...but the people I knew were a lot more interesting than the characters portrayed here. While the dialogue sounded real enough, and while the situations were more than plausible, the characters were so unlikable--all of them--that it was hard to muster up any sympathy for anyone. Reading this novel was akin to sticking my face into a bowl of saltwater with my eyes wide open--I could tolerate it, but only for a short time.Call me out of touch, if you wish. American Psycho had something to say. Less Than Zero, too, even though it was a downbeat read and somewhat disjointed in this reviewer's opinion. This novel, however, left me feeling simply bored and depressed, and that isn't a good combination.
2557470822	It has recently come to my attention that Bret Easton Ellis considers Joan Didion and influence on his writing. I wish he had let Didion's writing influence him more. This kind of book could have been good if Joan Didion wrote it. She would have devised a way to make the unlikeable characters compelling despite their negative qualities, and the plot would have been cut with a razor to its most important parts. But Joan Didion did not write it. Bret Easton Ellis did, and as a result this is not a very compelling book. My original review below: Amazingly bad. No plot. No interesting characters. Just college students partying and being assholes. No depth or meaning. Maybe the point was to show the unmeaningful lives of people who are not deep or interesting? Why devote an entire book to that?
5977965864	i didn't expect a satire book about the sex lives of college kids in the 80s and the nihilistic view of the death of the romance to hold much relevance. yet, somehow it's almost timeless? the book shifts perspectives through it's characters so well. everyone is clearly an unreliable narrator and part of the fun is finding some semblance of truth. it was an easy read once i stopped being confused about who the characters were (i will admit after the first 40 pages i made a cheat sheet to help.) nothing major happens- it's ellis after all. he focuses on the tone of a small northeastern liberal arts college in the 80s and captures a complex love triangle with humor and an interesting melancholic feeling.
2124168	If you're young and you feel helpless/hopeless, like life is meaningless, then this is the book for you. Not because it will give you answers, but because it will put everything in perspective.For the record, I HATED the movie. The movie was trite, meaningless, just another college movie but darker. The book has a lot more meat to it. I mean, it's still a lot of drugs, drinking and fucking, but done with a lot more style and panache. I especially like the way that Ellis uses narratives from different characters, and how they're all connected by thin strands. You get a real overview of each character, because you understand how they see themselves and how they're seen.
245914772	Depressing and unsettling. Literally made me nauseous to read. The characters were selfish, unappealing, & generally bad people. I do understand why some people say this book is a comedy based on the complete idiocy of the characters, but it really is a very sad book overall. I guess the only thing I can say I enjoyed about it was that it made me that much more grateful for my own life after reading how awful these people were. "American Psycho" used to be on my list of books to read, but I don't think I could stomach anything more by Easton Ellis.
6173114876	Love and masochism. The surreal element of being in love with someone and wondering if it’s all happening in your head. No one ever likes the right person (or maybe they think they do). A satire on staying “cool” even if you’re going a little crazy on the inside. In other words, the gaze of neutrality in the face of horror!
2448152584	I liked it. Good sequel to staple Ellis themes.
5038902940	patrick batemans brother goes to school with the secret history people lol
3031081189	Andiamo dal generale (il libro) al particolare (me).1 Negli anni '80, erano appena usciti Animal House (1978), Porky's (1981) - così di successo che ne uscirono pure tre seguiti nel giro di pochi anni -, La rivincita dei nerds (1984), e così via. Insomma, si stava mezzo affermando la commedia più o meno ribelle ambientata nei college (che viene poi ripresa agli inizi degli anni 2000, con i dovuti distinguo). Ora, senza stare qua a cercare di definire questi tipi di commedia, possiamo piuttosto velocemente riassumerle in commedie decisamente sboccate, piene di sesso e volgarità (anche con uno scopo preciso come scardinare l'immagine perbenista degli USA reaganiani), che si incentravano su una vita goliardica dei ragazzi al college, passata fra sesso, droga e crudeltà varie. Quello che fa Bret Easton Ellis in Le regole dell'attrazione è semplicissimo e sconvolgente: mantiene questa stessa storia, ma toglie la commedia. E cosa rimane di una commedia fatta di sesso, droga e crudeltà varie, se gli toglie la commedia? L'abisso. L'abisso di quelli brutti brutti. La struttura che ha Le regole dell'attrazione, in teoria, potrebbe essere perfetta per una rom-com dai toni vagamente anarchici: triangoli amorosi, gente che si insegue, si lascia, si rimette insieme. Però, mentre nei film, nelle opere narrative, in genere, si ha l'impressione di un'ordine, di una sequenza logica per cui i fatti seguono altri fatti, e tutto accade, in fondo, per una ragione, così non è per Ellis. O meglio, così non è nella vita per Ellis. Fondamentale per entrare nel college di Camden, allora, è la citazione iniziale: "I fatti, anche quando erano strettamente legati gli uni agli altri non avevano un vero ordine. Gli eventi non scorrevano. I fatti erano separati e casuali anche mentre accadevano, episodici, spezzati, senza passaggi scorrevoli, senza il senso di avvenimenti che nascessero da avvenimenti precedenti". La caratteristica formale, così come quella sostanziale del libro, servono proprio a restituirci questa mancanza completa di senso, o, meglio ancora, di casualità. Non c'è alcuna necessità dietro gli eventi, le azioni, dei personaggi del romanzo. Anzi: al contempo non vi è casualità, ma neppure scelta. "Finisce sempre così. Nessuna Grande Sorpresa".Ora, si è detto di caratteristica sostanziale e caratteristica formale. Se la sostanziale è piuttosto evidente, in quanto le vicende stesse dei personaggi non fanno altro che continuamente metterci di fronte a questo abisso, quella formale è un po' più complessa. Ellis compie due scelte fondamentali: la prima, lasciare che siano i diversi personaggi a raccontare, a parlare, in un montaggio alternato e spesso frenetico delle loro voci, lasciando quasi l'impressione che non si stacchi mai, che sia tutto un costante accadere (e, tra l'altro, mettendoci completamente al loro livello, togliendoci ogni possibilità di inquadrare la situazione dall'esterno e dall'alto. Siamo a livello occhi mezzi ciechi); la seconda, aprire e chiudere il libro senza veramente aprirlo o chiuderlo. In particolare, si apre in media res, con una minuscola, e si chiude, in media res, senza punto. Volendo si potrebbe pure ricominciare appena finito, quasi combaciano. Addirittura, non si sa nemmeno chi sia a parlare nel primo paragrafo. Il che, da una parte, dà l'idea di come la scelta dei tre personaggi sia quasi casuale, potrebbero essere le vite di chiunque, dall'altra, toglie ogni possibilità di chiudere il libro, di circoscriverlo, di dargli un inizio e una fine. Non ce li ha. Proprio come la vita. E la mancanza di un inizio e una fine, a sua volta, priva la storia di uno svolgimento, di una sequenza. E' come trovarsi di fronte a una collana di perle spezzata, con tutte le perle gettate a terra, che, boh, magari dovrebbero far parte di qualcosa, ma va un po' a sapere.2 Credo sia interessante come Le regole dell'attrazione nasca, in origine, come una critica ben precisa a una classe sociale ben precisa - l'alta borghesia dei college statunitensi. Una critica, però, che con il passare degli anni si è andata quasi completamente a perdere, ma nel senso opposto: nel senso che si è universalizzata. Il vuoto, la solitudine, l'incapacità di comunicare che viene spacciata per incomunicabilità, l'ironia come arma di attacco per difendersi, la disperazione e questo completo, disperato senso che non vi sia ragione perché qualcosa debba accadere e che le nostre azioni non avranno mai alcuna conseguenza, non sono più - se mai lo sono state - caratteristiche distintive dell'agiatissima uperclass statunitense.Ellis, togliendo qualsiasi patina goliardeccia e comica a uno dei generi più affermati del momento - la commedia al college -, mostra una disperazione disarmante e quasi incomprensibile. Eppure, la cosa più sorprendente, e che, oh, pare quasi fatta involontariamente, è che riesce a parlare di una stessa generazione vent'anni dopo. Se noi prendessimo Le regole dell'attrazione e lo facessimo leggere a qualcuno, senza dirgli in che anno è stato scritto, non ci stanno dubbi che verrebbe inquadrato come prodotto recentissimo. D'altronde, oh, Euphoria è uscito quest'anno sull'HBO.Quello che voglio dire è che Le regole dell'attrazione è soltanto incidentalmente un romanzo degli anni '80 ambientato in un ricco college americano. Potrebbe essere ambientato nel 2013 a Livorno e non andrebbe cambiato di manco mezza virgola. Il che la dice lunga sulla capacità di Ellis, ma altrettanto lunga su di noi.3 Allora. Ok, il discorso sull'universalità. Ok, tutto. Ma, fondamentalmente, perché io mi ci sono rispecchiato? Cioè, parliamoci chiaro: la mia vita universitaria è stata tutto tranne che promiscua. Niente di eclatante a livello di droghe, feste e così via. Insomma, una vita universitaria tranquilla, ma felice. Di più: è stato uno di quei rarissimi casi nella vita per cui sai che sono quelli i giorni felici, i giorni a cui poi ti ritroverai a pensare con nostalgia. Quindi: perché ho sentito tanto vicina l'esperienza fra sesso, droga e disperazione dei personaggi di Ellis?La mia ipotesi è che il sesso, le droghe, siano quello che in American Psycho sono le uccisioni (che, tra l'altro, è romanzo gemello a questo). Cioè, che abbiano una valenza anche metaforica - sottolineo l'anche, perché ovviamente, sesso e droga hanno anche una concretezza chiarissima e ineludibile. Il vero centro di Le regole dell'attrazione è la sensazione di gratuità che si diceva prima e che permane così indissolubilmente il romanzo da determinarne la forma. A un certo punto, Lauren fa un sogno: "in questo sogno non solo votavamo, ma votavamo per la stessa persona per cui votavano i nostri genitori. Bevevamo Evian, mangiavamo kiwi e ci ingozzavamo di dolci alla crusca [...]. Era spiacevole ma non insopportabile e in un certo senso mi sono sentita al sicuro". In questo sogno, l'ordinarietà è vista da una parte come quasi una minaccia, ma dall'altra come qualcosa di irraggiungibile, di così lontano, così distante da noi da apparire come appunto un sogno. E' questa sensazione che sta al centro del romanzo di Ellis e in cui ci viene da rispecchiarci, sia come generazione, sia come Samuele: l'impressione che nulla di quelle che facciamo abbia causa o conseguenza. Che sia tutto gratuito. Bellissimo, per carità, ma gratuito e innecessario. Eppure inevitabile. Come se qualcosa si fosse inceppato nel percorso verso l'età adulta - e Ellis, mostrando i genitori di questi ragazzi, ci mostra cause ben al di fuori di loro, e ben più endemiche - e si sia in un limbo, sperduti e disperati. Eternamente infantilizzati, senza più essere bambini, ma mai nemmeno adulti. E' di questo abisso che, per me, ci parla Ellis. E come è possibile non identificarsi con loro?
5127890756	This is so Challengers if they were liberal arts students in the 1980s!! I love messy bisexual love triangles!Somehow I haven’t read Bret Easton Ellis before and I’m glad I changed that! This is a very meandering novel and I could definitely see how it wouldn’t work for other people, but I enjoyed the style of it a lot. It really captured the often disappointing nature of attraction in college, you like someone that likes someone else that likes someone else and on and on. I love that we get every character’s perspective, so one person is narrating an event with another character and then that character tells the same event completely differently or doesn’t even mention it. Perfect show of how one’s mind will twist things to believe what they want or how someone that one person’s obsessed with barely even knows how they are. And really dark and brutal things happen in this that get brushed over and everyone is so self-involved to consider other’s experiences or they just numb everything with alcohol and partying. Whew, quite the book to read fresh out of college.Also love the references to characters from books that weren’t even published yet. Patrick Bateman being a main character’s brother. Mentioning the “Greek classic kids that were probably doing pagan rituals” cough cough The Secret History bc Bret read the manuscript while Donna was working on it. Take a shot every time there’s a Talking Heads reference ! (Loved the new wave soundtrack, literally what I listen to on the daily)Btw hated Sean, loved Paul and Lauren.
5134671755	Ha tingut el que em va faltar a "Menos que cero". M'ha agradat molt també llegir els dos primers llibres d'un autor seguits. El llibre tracta de com els personatges (joves, estudiants d'art, rics majoritàriament, dels 80) mai fan el que volen. Si en l'altre llibre semblava que mai feien el que volien i anaven d'un lloc a un altre sense saber per què, en aquest segueixen sense fer el que volen però no és que es deixin emportar (a vegades sí) sinó que acaben per fer el contrari al que volen fer. Si un vol estar amb un altre, aquest un estarà amb el que l'altre vol estar. Vaig llegir que el llibre, que jo pensava que d'alguna manera podria mostrar l'ambient de creativitat i llibertat a Bennington, realment tracta més de l'inici del declivi de tot això: tothom cada cop més alienat, s'obre un gimnàs de peses, marxen bons professors,etc... De totes maneres, jo he trobat que fins i tot es riu de la raó de ser original d'aquesta universitat, la pinta com un frau, on en realitat molta gent hi està per estar, ridiculitza la majoria dels projectes artístics dels personatges. Fi de la review, no sé com acabar-la.
4613287386	so so funny and surprisingly touching and self-aware I loved the intertextualitygawd I always feel like such a loser when I read Bret Easton Ellis that I want to go and stick a fork in a toaster when's he gonna write about an unconventionally attractive middle class wasian girl from christchurch who's only ever tried 2 drugs and didn't even like them
7992179238	“Wish we had sex and it was over with so I could go back to my room with the down pillows and the comforter and pass out with some dignity.”“Judy tells me that Roxanne told her that Sean deals drugs. I tell her, “At least he doesn’t breakdance.””“He looks at me and he takes his Grateful Dead T-shirt off revealing a beautiful body I cannot resist, and pulling off his Reebok tennis shoes, says, “Hey I hate the Beatles too.””“When he offered me a bottled beer, I thanked him and asked, “So what’s going on with you?” He said, “Fantastic.””
4625376325	Took me just about all semester to read (because I was busy). The kaleidoscopic narrative lent itself well to thay though— a fun read but pretty depressing too sometimes. I like any book that mentions REM.
6864023826	ummmm not Ellis's finest work in my opinion, but did enjoy the unreliable narration and dramatic internal monologues all the characters had. Every character was superficial and boring.
2957677961	Anno még a szomszéd srác adta ide a filmet, hogy nézzem meg. Persze, hogy megragadt bennem a történet, még ha a kivitelezés épp nem is volt a legjobb. (Tökre bírtam valamiért az egyik Tomandandy soundtrack-et, meg később arra is rájöttem, hogy a csaj a kádban az a Warpaint nevű rohadtul jó bandában gitárol). Aztán évekkel később arra is rájöttem, hogy hoppá ebből meg van könyv, és akkor találkoztam először Ellis nevével. Én meg mikor mikor már eléggé könyvbuzi lettem, beszereztem egy saját példányt és némi keserűséggel szembesültem azzal, hogy a könyv és film azért nem teljesen egyezik. Tetszett a könyv már akkor is, bár a homofób énem azért olykor tiltakozott ellene, mégis megragadt bennem, talán jobban mint a film. Tudtam, hogy újraolvasom majd, így örültem mint majom a…, na szóval annak, hogy van egy saját példányom a könyvből, mert hát akkoriban nem volt épp a legbeszerezhetőbb könyv, és nekem volt egy. Sőt nem csak volt, hanem van is egy példányom, amit most szépen újra is olvastam, és az a helyzet, hogy rohadtul jó volt. Rég kapott már el, ilyen kellemesen borongósan depresszív hangulat olvasás közben, (talán utoljára a Művésztelep Kerouctól lehetett olyan), és rohadjak meg, hogy ezerszer jobb, mint az iszonyatosan kult Amerikai Psycho. Amúgy a sztori meg eléggé egyszerű: pár egyetemista (vagy fősulis, akármi) szemszögéből megismerkedünk a céltalansággal, a kuresz és drogpartykkal, a szittyós szerdával meg a világvége bulival, és minden szarral, amit ezek az épp, hogy csak felnőttek elkövettek egymás, és maguk ellen. Röviden ennyi, na meg Rock'n'Roll
6642382960	Dressed to get screwed blir tema på bursdagen min neste år
7365502367	"la vita è come un errore tipografico: scriviamo e riscriviamo costantemente cose su cose"
7288214649	was really surprised by how much this book worked for me. i don’t always love multiple povs but i loved being a voyeur to all the different conflicting versions of the same events, each person remembering the version they wanted to believe out of self preservation and the truth probably being somewhere off the page. we tell ourselves stories in order to live etcetera etceteraother random things that i had fun with:- the 80s college experience of it all (and being reminded for the 1000th time how the gen z experience is so much more sanitized - not that i envy these characters’ lives at all but i do think gen z as a generation should probably be having more sex)- the upperclassmens’ digs at the fratty / reagan / weight room / greed is good type freshmen boys, fun to read in a book written contemporaneously - the american psycho tie-in with the one chapter from patrick bateman’s pov & imagining christian bale reciting it- the quick references to the group of classics kids in the secret history bc BEE and donna tartt were friends at bennington
