2790215494	“Some things simply cannot be believed. Even when you know they’re true.”The Furies is a slow-burn psychological thriller about four teenage girls who long for power. Through the study of art, mythology, and ancient witchcraft, they believe they found their voices. However, rather than uses these elements as a guide, they use them to seek vengeance. When Violet, a teenage outcast, starts attending an elite school, she isn’t looking to make friends. Having suffered the shock of losing her father and baby sister in a car crash, she is merely existing. That is until she meets Robin, a charismatic bad girl who introduces Violet to a world filled with death, destruction, obsession, and chaos. Violet falls quickly under Robin’s spell and, in doing so, discovers her dark side.The Furies is a slow-burn character study told through Violet’s eyes. The narrative focuses on the relationship mainly between Violet and Robin. Through Violet's character, Lowe does a good job of bringing teenage insecurities to light, especially in how they might lead one down a dark path. However, I felt like a good chunk of the time I was only hearing about what was happening to Violet vs. being able to see her go through the horrors that she suffers.The ending was fitting but at the same time choppy and a bit lackluster. There were parts that I loved and others where I had trouble experiencing what was happening to Violet. Some events are detailed and fully explained, whereas other major events just happen. It took me a long time to read this book. I would pick it up, read a few chapters, put it down and then come back to it a few days later. The characters felt distant and I struggled with the pacing of the narrative. However, I was compelled to see what happens to these four girls. While I didn’t love The Furies, I did find certain aspects interesting and enjoyed Lowe’s take on vengeance. I won an ARC of this book from a Goodreads Giveaway!
2939929377	Theoretically, it may be a bit easier to handle the aftermath of a tragedy if someone close suffers the same horror. Certainly, an adolescent girl could expect her mother to understand and to bear the burden with her. Vivian’s mom does know the shock, the overwhelming ache of emptiness. It’s almost as if she found a way to absorb it. Vivian no longer sees her mom, there is only a hollow shell where the warm, caring soul should still be.Perhaps Vivian, too, would have just faded away, if not for the opportunity to attend the prestigious Elm Hollow. A curious campus—that, of course “has a history”—and the intriguing course-structures were appealing. But it was watching the girls making their way from class to class that truly began to stir something inside of Vivian. For the first time, in a long time, Vivian felt like learning again. Looking forward, making friends, maybe even dating: thoughts that had been gathering dust in the back of her brain tentatively slunk forward.Young ladies gathered in pairs, loose groups and a few had chosen solo spots and were sprinkled throughout. One thing seemed the same, though. All seemed…content. Ok, not “all”. There are three…or to be more accurate, there is trio standing out. Admittedly, the righteous red of Robin’s hair is impossible to miss, but Vivian is pretty sure there’s an undercurrent connecting the clearly-close friends. Inexplicably drawn to them, Vivian feels her heart beat again when she is welcomed into their fold.Ms. Lowe doesn’t allow the uplifting illusion to linger. As Vivian embraces all of Elm Hollow her mind happily gathers information, albeit by bits and pieces. She soon learns enough to put together a surprising, scary picture. Relationships are not new; backgrounds are tangled, gnarled roots and Vivian has been snagged. Entirely on her own, she will become eternally ensnared in Elm Hollow, or she will have to hack her way out.I cannot wait to take this suck-you-in-and-spin-you-story to “my” students next month!This review was written by jv poore for Buried Under Books, with huge thanks for the Advance Review Copy for my favorite classroom library.
2781547581	NOW AVAILABLE!!The Secret History via Megan Abbott for a YA audience, The Furies is about teengirl rage and the revenge it engenders; a story of "…the brutal power of female friendship, of those secrets women share between themselves, in those moments men are too blind to see.” female rage novels are, if you will permit me, all the rage right now, and, being a fan of ‘girls gone wild’ stories, i could not be happier. this one is dark and damaged and gritty and sharp, and it’s what i had hoped the other book i read with the same title would be (incidentally, i have also read two books called fury [one and two], so you can see i have a type.) violet is a sixteen-year-old girl from a shabby seaside town who has miraculously survived a car accident that killed her father and her younger sister. although she grew up far from wealthy, with the insurance money from the accident, violet is able to attend an elite girls’ school nearby, and reluctantly takes the opportunity to start over where no one knows anything about her.her mother has been reduced to a shadow in her grief, leaving violet completely unmoored, and she soon finds herself unexpectedly absorbed into a tight-knit foursome, whose previous fourth member mysteriously vanished several months earlier, a girl who, eerily enough, very strongly resembled violet. it starts off predictably enough for this kind of dark coming-of-age story; demonstrating the transformative power of adolescent female friendships as violet alters herself to the tone of the group. under the particular influence of robin, the missing girl’s former bestie, she starts smoking, drinking, taking pills, and going to college parties with college boys. robin even renames her, calling her “vivi,” which violet takes as a sign of an especial favor she strives to live up to. I stumbled along beside her, speechless and blind, as she chattered on about classes, homework she refused to do (“on principle,” she said, not explaining what, exactly, the principle was) and girls she hated, their crimes seeming to me like instructions, things I would no longer say or do.and then it goes into The Secret History territory, when violet is invited to attend the exclusive lessons the clique have been studying, held in the clock tower under the guidance of annabel, their charismatic art teacher, where they learn about the school’s less-publicized history of secret societies led by powerful women with occult leanings, some of whom were burned as witches; lessons of sisterhood and empowerment, examining the latent fear of women permeating classical literature and art. "…unsupervised, private female friendships? Oh no. Women, alone together, without the supervision of men, almost always caused disaster in their households, and the wider community, these freedoms resulting in madness, anger, sexual desire, or jealousy resulting in death. Women are not to be left alone, together, or tragedy will surely follow.”and then things start to get dangerous. it’s an excellent debut and a strong contribution to the recent batch of rage-lit (Sadie, The Female of the Species, Ninth House, etc) the prose is occasionally a little overdressed, but there are moments of such anthemic potency, it is easily forgiven.I suppose there are moments, best (or at least most commonly) experienced in the heady years of adolescence, when a girl decides who—or what—she is going to be. Girls who chase boys, who twirl their hair and walk through clouds of chain-store perfume, learning their allure. Girls who like books, who revel in their solitude, and lonely girls who don’t; girls who eat, and girls who don’t. Girls with piercings, tattoos, scars. Angry girls, who bare their teeth and scratch at their arms. Unironic boy-band pink-clad girls, who scream and wail and live in every breath. Girls who read Vogue and spend their Saturdays with jealous hands on clothes their allowances won’t afford. Girls who long to be mothers, and their own mothers who long for their youth. Art girls. Science girls. Girls who’ll make it out alive. Girls who won’t.And then, there are the invisible girls: the ones nobody thinks to be afraid of. The girls who hide in plain sight, flirting and giggling; girls for whom sugar and spice is a mask. Girls who spark matches and spill battery acid on skin. Girls for whom the rules do not apply.go on, girls—go wild.********************************Congratulations karen!You are a Giveaways Winner!my very first GR win of 2019!! i am so excited!! thank you, gods of the GR giveaways!come to my blog!
2629119849	My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr... Although I’m not big into witches or witchcraft etc., I was still really intrigued by this books description.In 1998 a sixteen-year-old girl was found dead on the grounds of Elm Hollow Academy, an all-girls boarding school. She was dressed in white and posed sitting upright on a swing. No one knows exactly what caused her death. Not a single clue was left. It was as if her heart just stopped.Violet’s father and younger sister were recently killed in a horrific car accident….an accident that Violet miraculously survived. Violet’s mother is grieving and isn’t able to be there for Violet. It is eventually decided that Violet will attend Elm Hollow Academy.It isn’t long before Violet is invited to be a part of a study group led by the school’s art teacher, Annabel. Violet will learn more about art and mythology, and the history of Elm Hollow Academy. Another member of Annabel's study group, Emily Frost has gone missing. Violet is told that she resembles the missing girl. The other members of the group are Robin, Grace, and Alex. Robin takes a special interest in Violet and soon the two are close friends. Violet is so thankful for Robin’s friendship that she tolerates her frequent mood swings. She is kind to Violet one moment and vicious the next. Violet is changing. She is skipping school and experimenting with things like drugs, alcohol, older boys, and more.Suddenly things are spiraling out of control and Violet isn’t sure who she can trust.What other secrets are her new friends keeping? The prologue of this novel was really intriguing but soon after I found it just wasn’t holding my attention. Most of the characters were very difficult to like. The girls were so cruel to each other. I just couldn’t seem to connect with the characters or the storyline. I felt that some of the descriptions were unnecessary and had to skip a few parts entirely. However, I stuck with it because I wanted to see how it ended.Overall, this novel wasn’t what I expected. Of course, this is just my opinion. Many readers loved the novel, it just wasn’t for me.A young adult novel about toxic friendships, love, secrets, lies, dark magic, death, and revenge. I'd like to thank St. Martin's Press for providing me with a copy of this novel. All opinions are my own.
2998269559	A sixteen-year-old-girl is found dead in a swing at her boarding school. It’s 1998. No one knows how she died. Rumors light up and spread like wildfire.Well, actually, a few know what happened, but they aren’t talking. One student is particularly distraught.Violet is a new student at the boarding school, Elm Hollow Academy, just one year earlier. Violet needs a new start, and this will be it; leaving her past behind. Like any other teen, she desperately wants to fit in though she’s a bit awkward. Brilliant but eccentric at times.Violet is invited to a study group led by her art teacher, Annabel. Alex, Grace, and Robin are also in the group, and they are studying the history of the school. It’s rather dark. The school founder was interested in the occult, and the witch trials played a part.A former member of the group has disappeared, and she looks much like Violet. While her friends take part in more and more darkness, Violet doesn’t know what to do. She’s not sure how far this will go and will it go up in flames?I loved the art and mythology. This was such a unique read. I love the female slant here. It was clever and edgy. The Furies is a well-written engaging story about toxic friends with a dark backdrop of witches, spells, murder, and magic. I found it engrossing and thought-churning. Katie Lowe definitely kept me on my toes! Highly recommended for fans of darkly themed young adult novels!I received a complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader.
2781654404	This book is an okay read for me. I don't particularly like it much where Violet seems to be smart but do dumb things. She doesn't question why but follows blindly after Robin in her desperate need to have friends. The story for the most part, follows a 16 years old Violet but occasionally the story change it up to "as I look back" as if indicating that Violet is older and looking back to her first weeks of high school. There was no indication that the story was going to be told as a look back through memory lane. I don't really enjoy all that underage intentionally drinking, smoking, and drugs. This book started out with what appears to be a prologue, told in the first person point of view following a teacher and murderer of a 16 years old high school girl from long ago. Then the story begins with Violet, 16, smart and friendless, who survived a deadly car crash where her dad and sister died. With the accident settlement, it gives her the opportunity to attend an all girls school. At the school, she got invited to join a group of girls who are interested in witchcrafts and a study group with her art teacher Annabelle. This book is divided into 4 seasons starting with autumn. The Furies is well written, just not for me. I don't enjoy reading good girl deliberately gone bad without thinking. Violet is not clever at all. She basically let Tom have his way with her and then mad about it. She could have made better decisions, like not follow him and just leave when she said she's about to go. The friendship is not that great. The four of them seems to split to two and threes and often Violet is just following along. The murder doesn't make much sense since they were the one that were intruding the victim's premise. I can't help but skip through and then just couldn't finish it and don't care for the ending one way or another. The prologue however, sounds interesting.Pro: prologue Con: slow paced, smart girl intentionally do dumb things I rate it 3 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to St. Martin’s Press for the opportunity to read and review. Please be assured that my opinions are honest. xoxo, Jasmine at www.howusefulitis.wordpress.com for more details
2799037352	Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest A high-school mystery full of suspense. A murder, a questionable friendship and witchcraft. The Furies is a modern take of all witchcraft legends and curses! When a teenage girl is found dead, sitting on a swing, with no clues of how the death occurred, we are set up to trust no one from the very beginning. The story begins with Violet, who start the story from the very beginning, until finally leading us to how and why this murder happened. She comes to the new school and she becomes friends with an elite group of girls and a secret advanced study group, that focuses on witchcraft and influential witches connected to the school.From the fist to the last chapter, you can feel the suspense. The story is unique and it certainly kept me on my toes. I had trouble with who the narrator is, and in each chapter it’s Violet, but because it was written in first person and her tone changed, I kept looking for clues as to whether the narrator has changed or not. The names are also not mentioned often, which added a bit of agitation at times. I loved every part of the book that included witchcraft. There were awful lot of scenes about this, so trust me, I was more than satisfied. From witchcraft history, to a secret society, to performing rituals, The Furies will teleport you in that world.I liked how the friendships were developed, but I didn’t cheer for them. I could perfectly understand how all girls felt and why they all made certain choices, and that is due to the excellent writing skills Katie has. I felt different emotions for them all, loved them, hated them and pitied them. I couldn’t help but be annoyed with Violet, for never saying no, for settling, for being so naive and so needy to be accepted. I couldn’t help but be angry at her for knowing things and choosing to do nothing about it. I felt so angry at the girls, for all the drama caused and for discouraging people around them. I can’t help but feel conflicted with Violet though, because despite everything, she belonged in that group, and with those friends. As wrong as it may sound, she did fit. But with time, she did change and she did find her true self. And her development was the gem that made me really fall in love with this book.And then it struck me…I wasn’t mad at Violet. I was mad at all of us that have been in such position and chose the wrong things. I felt upset at all of us, who have changed themselves to fit in a group and forgot who they really are. To all of us, who were too afraid to say no to the popular girls in high-school.I highly recommend it to all girls in high-school, to all mums and to everyone that loves witchcraft and mystery. You will definitely love this book!Thank you to Katie Lowe, and the publisher, HarperCollins, for sending me a free hardcover copy in exchange for my honest review.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
2621664502	The Secret History meets Girls on Fire meets The Graces. "It seems that women are doomed to two fates. It is our lot to either be seen as unpredictable and irrational mortals, maligned and repressed by the actions of men; or sacred beings, goddesses of higher realm, among the Fates and Furies."The Furies is yet another YA novel that focuses on the potential toxicity of female friendships. Quite honestly, those are all my buzzwords and I will devour anything on the topic, no matter how many seemingly similar novels appear on the shelves. This book, however, also had something far more sinister to offer the reader, that appeared in the prologue and framed the narrative with its horrifying imagery. And right from this initial scene of terror I was hooked!Asides from the interplay involved in teen girl friendships, academic settings are another of my bookish buzzwords. An elite school is erected for these fictional creations that could draw its source from many real-world alternatives. The abundance and the pretension lured me into this world and when this veneer became scratched Lowe exposed the sinister history it tremulously resided upon. The historic abuse of women and the rumoured witchcraft of those females deemed unsavoury is not a new discovery, and yet what Lowe does with this most certainly is. She brings home the image of the witch and lets it rest and grow, unknown and yet right in the heart of the patriarchal regime that once condemned it to the outskirts.This is a novel ripe with sensual and sexual undertones that tainted every scene with an atmospheric foreboding that disallowed any facet to be taken at face value. The suspense mounts incrementally and ensures the reader is hooked to every word, as myth and history begin to collide with reality. Nothing can be trusted. All will be revealed. And in the wake of this discovery the reader will be left reeling.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review, Thank you to th author, Katie Lowe, and the publisher, Harper Collins, for this opportunity.
2912489011	Yes, there is a dead student. Yes, there are four girls attending a private school. Yes, the loner is brought into the fold. Yes, they are misfits and chosen by their teacher for private instruction about the witchy history surrounding their school and the accompanying mythology. Yes, they attempt rituals, spells or what have you. Look a little closer and what this book is really about is feminine rage, unrealized female potential (and aggression when violated or wronged). I thoroughly enjoyed the author’s erudite take on feminine anger and revenge contained within particular works of art and classic myths. Does the students’ hocus pocus yield results? That’s left for the reader to decide.
2610832452	(4.5) In a run-down seaside town somewhere in England lives Violet, an unhappy and isolated 16-year-old. She is the only survivor of a car crash that killed her father and little sister; in the aftermath, her mother withdraws into a numb state of grief, barely able to function. Violet's only desire is to escape. But a huge insurance settlement opens a different kind of door: Violet is to study for her A Levels at a private girls' school, Elm Hollow Academy. There, she meets the girls who will become her clique. There's aloof Alex, quiet Grace, and the grungily glamorous scholarship girl, Robin, who introduces Violet to cigarettes, drugs, older boys and... witchcraft. For Elm Hollow has a dark past, from the burning of an accused witch on the premises in the 17th century, to the disappearance of student Emily Frost – Robin’s best friend – the previous year. Though Violet is warned away from them by others, her status as one of the clique is secured when she's invited to be part of an exclusive study group by Annabel, a charismatic art teacher. On the surface, it might seem like there's nothing particularly new here. (Indeed, as I've mentioned before, I feel the world has more than enough 'girls behaving badly' stories.) Yet something about this snared me immediately. Part of its genius is the unlovely setting. Another part is leading with that: the first three paragraphs of the first chapter are devoted to sketching a bleak portrait of the crumbling, neglected town, 'the kind of place people came to die', complete with grey beaches, shabby arcades and 'pavilions caked in bird shit and graffiti'. We immediately understand that, even for the relatively privileged students of Elm Hollow, there is precious little glamour to be found in such a place.Violet narrates from an adult perspective, trying to pick apart her memories of this formative year. As teenagers, the girls are convinced they have summoned mighty spirits of vengeance – the Greek Furies. This perceived power leads them to devise ever-more cruel methods of punishment for their 'enemies'. Two decades later, Violet can scarcely understand what was and wasn't real. Her adult perspective is crucial, especially in the second half of the book, when events spiral so far out of control they barely seem credible. Is our narrator remembering correctly, or simply reinforcing the wild imaginings of a traumatised 16-year-old?The Furies isn't subtle. The prose can get a little too purple; some of the metaphors and similes could do with being cut. But honestly, I kind of loved how overblown it all was. At one point, Violet uses the phrase ‘gorgeous, blooming immensity’, which is a perfect way to describe the story itself. The way everything starts coming apart at the end... there's a sex scene late in the book that’s completely disgusting, viscerally horrible, and it seems to make plain an undercurrent of decay that has been growing stronger since the beginning.This novel is alive with the vigour and liberty of adolescence. It’s also streaked with the grime and nastiness of the very same thing. Terror, obsession, feigned nonchalance, narcissism, the first pangs of nostalgia – heady ingredients combined into something addictive, awful and wonderful, a riveting story set in a fictional world that both repulsed and entranced me. I loved it. I loved getting lost in it.You might like The Furies if you enjoyed: The Poison Tree by Erin Kelly; the film The Craft; The Moth Diaries by Rachel Klein; The Secret Place by Tana French; Dark Places by Gillian Flynn.I received an advance review copy of The Furies from the publisher through NetGalley.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
3013577043	I'll say it: I think this book was woefully mismarketed, with negative consequences. Tipped as a thriller novel, The Furies is anything but. It disappointed many people who came in expecting something else, something they didn't find, and the true audience didn't find it right away - or still haven't found it at all. In my eyes, The Furies is not a thriller, but rather female-focused dark academia. Admittedly, dark academia is still too niche of a genre to be used for widespread marketing, but surely even tipping this as a gothic mystery or something similar would've worked better. (Also admittedly a lot of people have been misled into believing The Furies is YA when it isn't, and that has also affected it's reception.)The Furies is only as much a thriller as The Secret History is. Both are slow, unwinding novels. Both shed layers of narrative as you wind through on your destination to the end, words peeling off to reveal motives, mysteries. That pacing doesn't work for a thriller, which I know is the reason why many people DNF'd this or just couldn't push through the slowly shedding middle. I think this would have been much more well-received if it had played up on the dark academia associations. Hell, I had no clue it was dark academia for so long, but it SO evidently is, right down to the similarities with The Secret History. Old, prestigious school. Special clique, cultivated by special teacher. An obsession with the Aesthetic. Ancient rituals. Murder.I found something in this book that I wasn't expecting to find, if I'm honest. Superficially, it has a beautiful cover and intensely beautiful writing, but at the very heart there is an incredibly complex web between four young women who really balance the line of morality. I'm such a sucker for that stuff! And I think Lowe navigated that delicate area of friendship so well. The end is rewarding too, in a sense. It finished in a way I wasn't expecting, but oddly fitting. I do think I've found a new dark academia fave, and The Furies is excellent in the fact that it focuses on women - and not men, whose privilege is often the lense for many popular dark academia novels. Certainly a new one for the list of recs, I think. > 4.5 stars
3005740740	Goodness, this was one heavy, dark, depressing story! At first I hated it, and thought the writing was extremely hard to follow, then the further I got the more interested and intrigued I became. I listened to this on audiobook, and most likely missed a lot of crucial small details (and boy was this a book you needed to pay close attention to!), so I was a bit confused at the end and why our protagonist Violet did what she did (don't want to spoil anything so that's all i'll say) so I'll probably give this a reread someday. This is part mystery/thriller and part horror and i'm sure will be a very polarizing book. There were definitely some good things and some things I took issue with. In the end i'm glad I didn't DNF it like I thought I might, as it was definitely above average. None of the characters were very likable, so if that is an issue for you, or a requirement for you to like a book, it may not be the book for you. Not sure I ever really loved the style of writing, but maybe i'm just not as smart as some. Lots of occult talk as well (obviously), so that may trigger or turn off some folks. I'd say definitely give this one a shot and expect it to take a bit to really sink your teeth into.
2811775482	The Furies by Katie Lowe is another young adult paranormal thriller that was compared to The Craft so of course I picked it up. A private school setting with witches should be right up my alley, key word in that should.The book opens with the body of a sixteen year old being found dressed all in white and posed on a swing at the Elm Hollow Academy, an all girls boarding school. Then the story jumps back to the year before where we meet Violet who tells the story of what led up to the body being found at the prestigious private school.So again, we have a young adult book that should have worked for me but instead I found myself dragging my way through. I found it hard to connect to the girls in the story and thought the scenes in the school learning magic, mythology and the witch trials etc all so slow and perhaps that was what made it feel so tedious that I just couldn’t get invested when other things were happening. The Furies became another book to me that I just wanted more and wasn’t finding it along the way.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
2607837338	I LOVED this. Without doubt the best book I’ve read featuring toxic female friendship since “Girls on Fire” – The Furies is haunting, evocative and sits in your head, that underlying sense of menace and anticipation resonates throughout.Violet desperately wants friendship, even as she tells herself she doesn’t need it, so when she is befriended by the enigmatic and edgy Robin and drawn into a circle of secrets and lies, she will do anything to protect it. Darkness and obsession, fatal ties and dangerous magic make for an utter page turner of a literary novel, with some beautiful writing and intelligent layered nuance.The Furies is both observational and insightful, as Violet tells the tale of this fascinating group, of both love and hate, random happiness and sudden horror. Katie Lowe uses cutting edge prose to draw the reader into Violet’s world then doesn’t allow you to look away, it is utterly gripping from the vivid opening to the melancholy finish.Absolutely excellent.Highly Recommended.
2873844463	The Furies was a solid 3 stars. The book centers around main character Violet-a teenager who attends Elm Hollow Academy (a private school for girls that was the site for the 17th century witch trials) soon after the death of her father and sister. While at the academy, Violet joins a study group with three other girls under the tutelage of Ms. Annabel-things definitely take off from there.The Furies is a well-written and unique book that involves murder, magic, toxic friendships, and rituals among other things. Recommend to fans of darker theme books. Thank you NetGalley for providing me a copy in exchange for an honest review.
2787164246	I stepped a bit out of my reading comfort zone for this one and even though this wasn't a complete winner for me, I am glad I read it. Initially I had been concerned how much witchcraft was going to play in the story as that's not something I'm typically all that interested in. However, there really was a lot going on in the story besides that so I do believe this book has the potential to appeal to a wide variety of readers.So the book starts off with the narrator talking about how years ago a 16 year old girl was found dead on school property. Super mysterious as to what exactly happened. We are then taken back in time to when Violet, the narrator, was growing up and had just recently lost both her father and sister due to a car accident. She has just enrolled as a new student at Hollow Academy, a private girl's school, where she can hopefully have a fresh start. The school has the unfortunate history of being the site for witch trials during the 17th century. Violet is a bit of an outsider for a variety of reasons but she is invited to join a private study group. And that's all your getting out of me as I think it's best to go in to this one without a lot of prior info.One of the strengths of the novel was there were quite a few things I didn't see coming and to me it was a good feeling not ever knowing just exactly what the author had in store. I think that also contributed to the whole creepy vibe of the story. This book has been compared to the movie, The Craft, and I definitely do not think that is a bad or off the wall comparison. However, I just don't think the group of four girls in this book had the same spark, charisma, or whatever you want to call it as the characters in the movie. Alex and Grace in particular just blended in together as I didn't find either one to be all that memorable. I also can't help but feel like there was almost too much that was added to the story in terms of different topics and themes the author wanted to explore and as a result it felt messy at times.I might not have been in love with the execution, but I have no regrets about reading this one and I do appreciate the effort to bring something different to the genre.Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for the opportunity to read an advance digital copy in exchange for an honest review!
2778057560	If I don’t hit it off with a novel right away – if I’m not feeling ‘it’ – it’ll be difficult to turn that feeling around and, unfortunately, that’s what happened when I started reading The Furies. The fact is that for some reason I didn’t take in some of the narrative in certain paragraphs and I had to go back and reread parts of the story. I believe the reason for this could be because of the lyrical and descriptive writing style and the plot didn’t really capture my attention after the – I must admit – wonderful first chapter.I loved the rich history of the school and how the author broached the Greek mythology in the story but the characters fell flat for me and weren’t all that interesting. The plotline involves four girls (Violet, Robin, Alex and Grace) but in reality there are only two stealing the show which are Robin and ‘Vivi’. These girls have quite a toxic relationship where one is being manipulated by the other and I should maybe have felt for Violet but she didn’t really say or do anything to make me care for her very much.There was even one disturbing scene where she was involved (I might say it merits a trigger warning) and it didn’t sit well with me at all, not her behaviour at the time but I was appalled by her reaction afterwards as well. Let’s just say that her way to deal with a situation was taking revenge with some witchcraft where she should have acted rationally. I do love young adult and have enjoyed many novels in this genre before but I feel this one must be for younger readers. I know I was looking too hard into their actions and struggling with the decision-making in the novel so much I wasn’t able to really enjoy it like I should have. The Furies contains storylines of peer pressure, revenge and assault so it does touch on some interesting and not so easy topics but the girls are naïve and the surface was only scratched for me, I was not able to feel the emotions that such tough subjects could provoke.The Furies reminded me of tv shows as Pretty Little Liars and The Craft, and it does show some similarities so if you really enjoy voodoo-doll and animal sacrifice rituals then you’ll find the storyline to your liking. I think this might work better for me as a tv show.
2760518064	In 1998 a sixteen year old girl is found dead on school property, dressed in white and posed on a swing, with no known cause of death. Violet, looking back on the night it happened from the present day, before returning to relate the series of events leading up to the girls murder. After a accident involving her dad and sister, Violet joins Elm Hollow Academy, a private girls school in a quiet coastal town, which has an unpleasant history as the site of famous 17th century witch trials. Violet becomes the fourth member of an advanced study group.Sixteen year old Violet was the only survivor of a car crash that killed her father and sister. She goes to Elm Hollow Academy, a private school for girls, to study for her A levels. She soon meets and becomes friends with Alex, Grace and Robin. The Academy has a history of witchcraft. The girls take extra classes with the art teacher, Annabel, who teaches a few students about art, literature and mythology. The history of Elm Hollow Academy is a place where witches were burnt at the stake. I did not like any of the main characters in this story.I would like to thank NetGalley, HarperCollins UK, HarperFiction and the author Katie Lowe for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
2829253822	2 stars--it was OK. Warnings for sexual assault.The good: This book is set in a girls' school, which I love, and includes a small secret society of students that study women in Classic literature. Awesome! It has a touch of the supernatural, and the overall theme--unstable, witchy teenage girls getting revenge on the (mostly) men who wronged them--is fascinating. Also, this is a quick read.The bad: If you want to read about girls' toxic friendships, Megan Abbott does it better. If you're interested in students doing creepy Greek rituals, nothing tops The Secret History. In other words, this felt derivative. Also, it bothered me that there were no consequences for any of the actions in this book--no one even feels particularly bad about some pretty awful things they do. (Being vague to avoid spoilers!) There's no real police or school investigation, despite multiple mysterious deaths. It was harder to suspend my disbelief over this than over the supernatural elements! And what happened to the (view spoiler)[Dean's cat (hide spoiler)]? That also really bothers me.I received this review copy from the publisher on NetGalley. Thanks for the opportunity to read and review; I appreciate it!
2790908943	Typical YA novel, with a paranormal witchcraft undertones, The Furies will entertain those who enjoy Pretty Little Liars and Charmed. Katie Lowe's debut novel will have a strong following, but I didn't enjoy the story as much as I wanted to. The Furies centers around Violet, a teenage girl sent to prestigious Elm Hollow Academy, and her interactions with her classmates. She immediately befriends a group of girls and her art teacher Annabel. As Violet's involvement with this new group of women grows, so does their devious teachings. The school is rumored to be on a burial ground for sorcery, and maybe, just maybe, Violet will get to see a glimpse of magic herself. She's had a near death experience in the past, so a little bit of magic won't unsettle her—or will it? I feel like the synopsis provides too much information for the reader, so honestly go in blind. The Furies was a little too YA for me to enjoy, and I honestly should just stay away from the genre at this point, but I do think that there's a strong base of readers who will enjoy this book. I wish the story was a little darker, and the dialogue was a little stronger between the characters, but overall the story's pacing was great. As you dive into Violet's adventures at Elm Hollow Academy, the darkness behind the school's peers grows and grows. There are multiple story arcs throughout the novel (murder, deception, sex—to name a few), and by the end of the book, you won't know who to actually root for. The way that The Furies wrapped up the narrative was awesome, and it's left for the reader to decide what will happen next. I can totally see this book be optioned for a television show on The CW.
2812472161	Violet joins Elm Hollow after the death of her little sister and father. It's a private girls school that has a history of magic and witchcraft thanks to an association with the 17th century witch trials. Violet finds herself drawn to three girls--Robin, Grace, and Alex. She becomes close with them, particularly Robin, and finds herself invited to an advanced study group led by their art teacher, Annabel, which goes into more depth about the witchcraft practiced at the school so long ago. The girls seem to think the magic is real, and that they can harness it. Always lurking in the background is Emily Frost--Robin's former best friend--who died before Violet came to Elm Hollow. She and Violet look very similar. As time passes, Violet starts to wonder if the witchcraft is real. And what really happened to Emily? The girl is found dead on a swing on a playground on Elm Hollow Academy property--no known cause of death. That's how this novel opens, and then we have Violet, who tells us the story looking back, recounting her time at Elm Hollow. So the story opens dramatically and we know something has terrible happened. And that Violet makes it out okay. "Inconclusive, they said, as though that changed the fact of it, which was this: a sixteen-year-old girl, dead on school property, without a single clue to suggest why or how." This book should be been really good--I'm a sucker for private school tales (I thought it was a boarding school one, as well, but it wasn't)--but it just didn't work for me. I thought about putting it aside several times, but I just couldn't. I need to work on my DNF skills. There is a lot here: two dead girls; witchcraft and the occult; mythology; friendship and coming of age--and none of it feels fully explored. A lot of the book focuses on mythology as Annabel teaches some of it to the girls (I felt myself skimming over that, and I like mythology). There's the focus on witchcraft, but it never seems fully embraced. There's a lot of violence (won't go too far for spoilers) but there are never really any consequences. It's very strange, and honestly, not the sort of YA book I'd encourage for teens. And, then, I just didn't care for these characters. Robin is hateful, and I couldn't form a bond with Violet, our narrator. That would be all well and good if the action was enough to keep my interest, but it wasn't. The book just felt jumbled, and I wasn't interested in picking it up. Even a few late twists didn't really redeem things for me. Lots of others have found the story powerful, however, so if you like mean girls with a side of possible witchcraft, you may enjoy this more. 2 stars. I received a copy of this novel from St. Martin's Press and Netgalley in return for a honest review. It is available 10/08/2019.
2971882314	Thank you SO much to St. Martin's Press via NetGalley for the eARC in exchange for an honest review! All opinions are my own!The Furies by Katie Lowe is an atmospheric read set in a small coastal town at the end of the line. All the lines. Literally. It seems like a very depressed area that has a history of witch hunts and unexplained deaths/murders. At the heart is a school for girls, where Violet is a new student and she ends up falling in with an odd group of girls that are part of a secret society. The past mixes with the present as Violet recalls the events of her first year at the schoolSo the good first: I really did enjoy Lowe's writing style. Violet had a detached voice that kind of mirrored the..... ....hell, I'll say it, she's a bit of a sociopath. The whole book had a creepy, depressed, airy tone that her voice did a good job imparting.The other voice that we hear a lot of is the secret society/art teacher, Annabel. She gives us some interesting discourse on the history of the town and school, as well as a critical view of some mythological and literary classics through a feminist lens. The only parts that really lost me were these discourses - yes it is cool to have mini lessons on Chaucer, Dante's Inferno, and others, but it was a bit of a sidetrack. And extensive. Very occasionally it was hard in other places to understand what was happening, but the storyline would pick back up quickly enough.The girls might have good reason to but they took women's empowerment over men to a scary level, including attempting to summon the mythical furies as had their group's predecessors in earlier years. Violet was an at risk teen to start but she seemed way too eager to start smoking, drinking, doing drugs, losing weight, just to fit into this group. None of them were healthy. Otherwise I really loved how the witchcraft history and mythology all tied together in the book. I don't think anyone could have possibly seen that end coming. I would definitely recommend the book if atmospheric, spellcrafty, spooky and slightly psychopathic reads are up your alley!
2812949654	I received this book from Netgalley in exchange of an honest review.Welp, I was so looking forward to reading this one. I kept hoping my wish (as I wished for this one) would be granted. And it did! However… it took me 3 days to finally get through this and it wasn’t easy at all. I had to force myself to read a certain amount so I could get through it without it taking to long.What went wrong? Well, the blurb and the cover looked awesome. Boarding school? Sign me up! Murder? Oh yes! Potential black magic and strange rituals? Ohhhh. What more could I want. Sadly, this story is what I wanted. The boarding school? Well, I wouldn’t call it that as everyone seemed to go home every day. It was more of an elite super school for kids who are smart. Murder? Well there is some murder, but eh.What else went wrong? The characters mostly. Robin is just a freaking psychopath and should be locked up from the early pages of this book. She is unstable, her mind is unhealthy, she makes it seem like it is all someone’s problem, while she is always the cause of the disturbance or terrible events. She drags people down to hell with her. She only cares about herself it seems. At least what I could read from the book. She makes it seem like she cares all about someone, but then something happens and you see her true colours. She is a manipulative bitch. :{Violet? Well, she started off pretty decent and I have to say I liked her at the start, smart, responsible, but as soon as she gets involved with the group of girls, and especially Robin, she changes to a weak, unstable, wtf is wrong with you girl. I was so frustrated with her constantly as she kept doing things that no one should ever do. And sure, peer pressure is a thing, but this went much further than that. She went to use drugs, drank all the time, was spineless and constantly cared only for the compliments of the girls (especially Robin) and would do anything and everything for them. Like with the Dean? She could have just ran away or say no or anything, but instead she did all those things. I just wanted to shake her. Later on things escalate further to the point that I was just cringing and wondering what the hell was wrong with her. Eventually I would call her almost as bad as Robin. Maybe less crazy though (just a bit), but still unhealthy.I guess the whole accident that happened back when she was younger and that costed her not only her father but also her sister, and following that her mom who fell into addiction and neglect, also didn’t help with things. Maybe if she had a good family, parents who care about her, maybe she wouldn’t have fallen for the tricks of Robin, maybe she could have been stronger. All those ifs, and we will never find out.As for the other two girls. Well, they were around and at times they had their says, we see that things aren’t good for Grace due to her abusive father, but other than that, these two just fell in the shadows/background quite fast. They were part of the group, but the focus of the book was clearly the very unhealthy relationship between Robin and Violet.Annabel, I do wonder how much she knew. Did she know what her students were up to? I am guessing yes. This given various situations were with one glance she seemed to tell all, and with her speeches, her warnings, and then later on something else. If she truly knew, why didn’t she stop the girls? Why didn’t she cut them off from the early times?I actually felt sorry for Nicky. She was a gossip, at times seemed to only care about that and spreading it, she also seemed like the most fun character. Quite a few times she talks to Violet, tries to be there for her and invited her to parties and such.The story borders on boring to wtf am I reading, and I really had to push and push myself to keep reading. The speeches by the teachers, while I did like that they fitted the theme of what was going on at the moment, were also terribly dull.The whole Dean thing and how that ended…. just o.0I have to be honest and say that I still have no idea who killed (view spoiler)[ Emily. (hide spoiler)]Really, with all that happened in this book and how my mind just seemed to tune out at times, now that I think back, I just don’t know. Probably really terrible of me, but sorry this story just sucked the joy out of me.The ending made everything even worse. The things that happened in there, the girl on the swing, the thing with Grace and Alex, and then there is Violet’s decision. What the actual hell? Why would you do that? After all that happened…I could probably give a ton of more reasons why this book wasn’t for me, but frankly I want to forget about this book and just go to my next (hopefully) better read. I am sure there is an audience for this book, but it isn’t me.Also BIG BIG Warning for the rape scene. Yes, there is one, and yes I would count it as that given the character’s reactions and her clearly being against what was happening. Later on it also has consequences for her mental health, she is just not stable. It is not going well. She keeps getting flashbacks. :\Review first posted at https://twirlingbookprincess.com/
3532297293	The Craft in college, with a pleasant dash of The Secret History for good measure. Lowe's writing is gloriously overwrought: "Owl wings cracked above me like a gunshot, worms rolling in the earth beneath me, shifting roots. I opened my eyes and the moon swelled, wet with dew, stars scattered like ashes in the peach-flesh morning sky" and so forth, and all is tendons standing out and bruises, flecks of mascara and too much wine and skinny, hungover sixteen-year-olds with absent parents wearing tattered coats in class and smoking joints and clutching each other's frayed sweaters and being cruel to one another and it's all pretty intense! There isn't a whole lot that's not predictable about this but if you're in the mood for this style of writing, Lowe does a great job nailing teenage friendship, at least in my view; a group of girls with shifting alliances, maybe one person in particular that you're super close to and you feel that surge of jealousy if she's close to someone else, you're with her and you still feel unlikeable, you love her but sometimes you wonder if you also sort of hate her. This reminded me a lot of my own teenage girl-hood, right down to the witchy shit but without the (view spoiler)[murdering (hide spoiler)]
2843790165	SSSHEEEESH...Quick synopsis: Violet carries us through a series of events that led to the murder of a 16-year-old at a private girl’s academy. Her fear is she can’t trust anyone and she might be next.Eerie right? WRONG. Oooph. I couldn't get past the first 45 pages because they were fueled with SO MUCH teenaged angst and complaints that it was too cumbersome to continue.This was a hard pass for me. Thank you to the publisher for my copy. I'm very sorry it didn't work out.
2787239927	HAPPY PUBLICATION DAY, Katie Lowe!!REVIEWI am teetering somewhere between 4 and 4.5 stars with this one, for reasons I will explain, but I feel as bewitched (fitting) by this book now as I did by its premise when I first came across it.Everything about teenager Violet's world is tinged with grey. She lives in a run-down seaside town somewhere in England. Her father and younger sister were recently killed in a car crash, from which Violet emerged as the only survivor. In the accident's aftermath, Violet's mother has withdrawn into a state of grief and numbness, barely able to function, let alone look after Violet. The atmosphere in the house is melancholy and dark, filthy and silent.An insurance settlement provides Violet with the opportunity to attend a prestigious private girls' school, Elm Hollow Academy. The school is located on the historical site of witch trials where an accused witch was burned in the 17th century. Adding to the school's dark and mysterious allure, a current Elm Hollow student, Emily Frost, has disappeared and is still missing. The backdrop of the school's history and the descriptions of the physical campus set the scene for this eerie and intriguing story and I was immediately drawn into it.Despite her tendency to isolate herself and indulge in her feelings of loneliness, Violet makes the acquaintance of grungy, confident and carefree Robin, who introduces Violet to the rest of her clique: quiet Grace and aloof Alex. Our protagonist is led to experiment with cigarettes, alcohol, drugs and older boys, and as her 'pledging' to the small girl-pack intensifies, she learns about witchcraft, going on to secure a spot in a secret and exclusive study group fronted by Annabel, a charismatic and alluring art teacher at Elm Hollow. After a series of events, with her friendships intensifying to the point where she feels trapped, Violet begins to doubt everyone around her as well as lose her own grasp on reality.You might be thinking you've read this story before, right? It feels like a combination of Donna Tartt's The Secret History and spooky thriller "The Craft", with a little hint of the highschool clique-culture of "Mean Girls" thrown in for good measure. This is initially why I was drawn to The Furies; I have a weakness for these kind of female-friendship-led thrillers. However, this novel surprised me with its differences and its uniqueness. The creepy premise is wonderful and if the witchcraft element and disappearance of Emily Frost wasn't enough, the book opens with an unforgettable image of a dead girl found on the grounds of Elm Hollow, dressed all in white and propped on a swing. Violet, now an adult, is looking back on this scene and the night it happened from the present day, before going back in time to relate the events leading up to the murder, beginning with her enrollment in her new school.The story itself is engrossing - in fact, it led me to do some research on witchcraft in the U.K., my assumption being that witch trials were rooted only in the history of Salem and the U.S. The concept is rich and dark, and is brought to life so well by the author. I particularly enjoyed the evocation of the unlovely setting: the sketch of a bleak, crumbling, dilapidated and neglected town, "caked in bird shit and graffiti", "the kind of place people came to die". The characters feel authentic, with Violet, especially, emerging as vivid and engaging. Despite her tendency to fall within the realm of unreliable narrator - is our narrator remembering correctly or merely presenting the traumatising imaginings of a teenage girl, present-day Violet serves as a crucial adult perspective to help us make sense of the past and put us back on track.This novel can be commended for its projection of teenage life and teenage insecurities, which doesn't come as a shock given Katie Lowe's background as an academic and the founder of the Fat Girl PhD blog, through which she writes about health, feminism and body image. The prose is alive with the energy and liberty of adolescence, while also being smeared with the uncertainty, nastiness and grime of it all. And, while the prose can come across as a little overdone at times, the elaborate word play and use of similes and imagery serve to emphasise the visceral and surreal nature of the story. With undercurrents of dread and decay, the atmosphere of this novel reminded me of that of Dark Places by Gillian Flynn.Despite the sometimes blown-out prose and a brief and fleeting moment in the middle where it seemed like the narrative was going to lull, The Furies is a riveting story of dark magic, obsessive friendship, teenage life and murder. It is dripping with atmosphere and intrigue. I got lost in it from the first page and felt both repulsed and consumed by it. I expect this will be received as a triumphant debut. Bravo, Ms Lowe. (Let's call it 4.5 stars, then.)
3419207677	DNF at 50%I just can't force myself to read anymore of this book. I've been reading (avoiding) it for weeks, and I have too many shiny books sitting on my TBR pile to waste any more time on it.It wasn't awful, I still think it deserves 2 stars, but I just don't want to read anymore. It had been on my radar for months, and despite the bad rating, I still wanted to read it. I should have paid attention to everyone else's opinion and saved myself the time.
3414076691	3.5 stars
3578853856	3.5!Cuando lo empecé pensé que iba a ser un 5 estrellas y, hasta el macabro descubrimiento en el árbol, iba en súper buen camino pero la segunda parte se me cayó. En general lo disfruté un montón, tiene vibras súper witchy que me transportaron a la película Jóvenes Brujas. Hay momentos muy oscuros y ritos de magia que me encantaron. El problema es que muchos de los personajes están desaprovechados y estos momentos de oscuridad son sólo el fondo para el desarrollo de personaje que no es tan interesante como lo que está pasando a su alrededor. De todos modos tiene cierta vibra de ser un libro "Dark academia", así que si andan buscando algo similar se los recomiendo.
2802877163	You can also read my review here: https://devouringbooks2017.wordpress....Review: 4.5 StarsThe Furies was one of my most anticipated releases of the second half of the year. I had a review copy of this book for about six months before I finally got to read it and it has been calling to me from my shelf the entire time. After having been disappointed by several of my most anticipated releases recently I was pretty nervous starting this one, but it wound up being absolutely incredible. The Furies is a dark and eerie read that is a perfect choice for the month of October.Since this book was compared to The Craft I had expected Violet to join a coven of witches who did dark spells, while this was similar I don’t know if I would call the girls witches. They studied demonology and things like that and did try out some rituals, but I wouldn’t say the main focus of this book is purely witchcraft. This is a very dark book, with themes of desperation, a lot of drug use and murder. The Furies is a cross between a thriller and a paranormal read that felt entirely real.The characters are what truly brought this book to life. When Violet started at the local private school she was so desperate to have friends that she would do anything to not only have them, but to keep and to fit in with them. She became obsessed with her new friends Robin, Alex and Grace. Robin was my favorite character, probably because she was so flawed and morally grey. All of these characters just felt so real and so relatable regardless of the situations that they were in.I really loved the writing. While the pacing is slower than I typically like I found that I didn’t mind because I didn’t want the story to end. It was character driven rather than plot driven and the characters were so strong that I wish that I could have kept reading about them. My only issue is that there were certain moments in the book, including the climax, that I felt like should have packed more of an emotional punch. While I do understand the author’s choice in having Violet be detached from these events because it made her character feel a little more unhinged, as a reader I felt like it lessened the impact of these huge moments.I still can’t stop thinking about this book. The Furies really made an impact on me and I think a large part of that is because the characters felt so real, but I also think it’s because parts of this book were so dark and chilling. This was the perfect read to start off the spooky season and I can’t wait for others to read and experience this book as well.
3001753750	2.5 ⭐️I typically enjoy murder mysteries set in private/boarding schools but I struggled with this one. It felt too slow, drawn out and just fell flat. I struggled with the pacing and even listening on audio, it felt like it took forever to read this one. I was just left feeling disappointed by this lackluster read.
4296622900	Absolutely fucking fantastic 🖤
2811834307	This review can also be found at https://carolesrandomlife.com/Well, this was dull. I really wanted to like this book and went into it with an open mind but it just wasn’t meant to be. I did think about abandoning the book at several points but I pushed through in hopes that the ending would be exciting enough to make up for the incredibly slow-paced story. It wasn’t. I thought that the premise of this book sounded like it had a lot of promise. It should have been an exciting story with deaths occurring and the history of witchcraft at the school but it just fell flat for me.I didn’t like any of the characters which made it hard to connect with the story. I thought that the very beginning of the book where we learn Violet’s history was very well done and I wanted to be sympathetic toward her character but it just didn’t happen. Violet, Robin, Alex, and Grace just were not very likable. Robin was the ringleader for much of the story and she really just seemed like a bad influence on Violet. I was bored throughout the book.I listened to the audiobook and thought that Olivia Dowd did a great job with the narration. Honestly, I don’t think that I would have finished the book if it were not for her narration. She had a pleasant voice and I liked the distinctive voices that she used for the various characters.This is not a book that I will be recommending this book. This was a very slow-moving story with characters I didn’t care about. I do think that some readers will like this one a lot more than I did.I received a review copy of this book from St. Martin’s Press Press and borrowed a copy of the audiobook.Initial ThoughtsWell, this was dull. I thought that the premise of this book sounded like it had a lot of promise. It should have been exciting with deaths occurring and the history of witchcraft at the school. I found that the story fell flat and I was bored for most of the book. I didn't like any of the characters which made it hard to connect with the story. I listened to the audiobook and did like the narration.
2987772446	*Somewhere between 3 and 4 stars. I thought this was a well-written YA thriller, aimed at older teens because of the mature themes of drinking, drugs, sex and murder. Violet Taylor starts attending Elm Hollow as a scholarship student after the death of her father and younger sister. She finds it difficult to make friends at first but is thrilled when 'the cool girl' Robin and her two friends, Grace and Alex, take her under their wings. The four of them are invited to join a special class held by their art teacher Annabelle who begins telling them about the early origins of the school, which includes some dabbling in witchcraft. '...women are doomed to two fates. It is our lot to be seen as either unpredictable and irrational mortals, maligned and repressed by the actions of men, or sacred beings, goddesses of a higher realm, among the Fates and the Furies.'When they find a book of spells among Alex's mother's collection, the girls decide to do some experimenting on their own. According to a page in Annabelle's required reading: "'Once summoned, the Furies cannot be sent back, only leave of their own accord. To summon them without due reason, therefore, is to risk a life of torture, the deepest suffering of the human soul.'"The story is told from Violet's first person perspective, looking back on those days now that she is an adult and a dean of students herself. It is almost painful how easily she was led into doing things because of her love for her friend Robin and wanting to be liked by the group. Violet seems unable to say no in many dangerous situations and is pushed to learn what she is capable of doing. Very uncomfortable reading! I received an arc of this Ya thriller from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Many thanks.
3004881849	There's no way not to fall head over heels into this book! I loved it, start to finish. Is there such a thing as the Furies, women exacting their revenge on those who have done them wrong? It starts out as fun and then too many coincidences lead you to believe that maybe the four girls really have gotten themselves into a power that can't be undone. I loved watching them grow, questioning their abilities and falling into the power that their abilities possess when things seem to go their way. Yet, using them for matters, without even conviction at times, was almost their downfall. I wonder what could have been had Robin not been picked as one of the elite 4. She seemed to be too much of a wild card, granted the book would never have been what it was without her. But, could the Furies have been passed down to four more girls, without so many deaths and scandals surrounding the school? Would any of the girls eventually have daughters that fell into the elite group, as well? I don't know, but I wish I knew how the next generation would hold it all down or if Annabell has already started a new class. You're going to be fully immersed in this world and left wanting more, too. This culture of the wealthy elite, mixed with the underworld and teenage angst will drive you wild!
3004516054	⭐️⭐️⭐️ / 5I haven't seen the greatest reviews for The Furies by Katie Lowe but I still wanted to give it a shot, and I don't regret reading it! If you are looking for a slow burn, and I mean really slow, you will get it with The Furies. I wish the pacing would have been better because I felt like it took a long time to read even though in reality it didn't even take me 5 hours. I really liked the aspect of the history of the school and I wish it would have had even more of that. There are creepy parts that deal with witchcraft that I wish would have popped up more since that's when things got really interesting.I didn't find myself liking any characters in the novel, so be prepared for that. Violet seems smart enough, but I just couldn't get behind most of her decisions. Of course this is a coming-of-age tale though, so I guess you have to expect decisions not to be great. The ending was pretty chilling though, and you don't know who the dead girl is until the end. I didn't figure out who it was going to be, but I guess I should have. I just let the book take me away and tried not to sleuth. I read an interview with Lowe on sublimehorror.com after finishing this book where she said that she wanted to do young women's anger some justice and I think she definitely did. There is a lot of rage in The Furies and it was interesting to see how the girls handled it. Reading her interview actually made me appreciate this book more, which was helpful. It was such a unique book, and unlike anything I have ever read which I think is in part thanks to Lowe's writing style. It isn't just about murder, but also deals with rape and body issues among other things. She really tried to bring the teenage years to life which I can always appreciate. Song/s the book brought to mind: Secret by The PiercesFinal Thought: There were elements of The Furies that I really liked which is why I still ended up at a 3/5 for this one. While it didn't blow me away and the pacing was too slow for my liking, I would definitely still read this author's next book. I would also recommend this book to the right person. As long as you don't mind really slow pacing and you like books that delve into teenage rage and witchcraft, this would be a good one to pick up! Thank you to the publisher for my advanced review copy via NetGalley. All opinions and thoughts are my own.
2715136022	I chose this book because the plot and situation are similar to one of my very favorites: Donna Tartt’s The Secret History. In both there is a school or college setting in which an outsider is drawn into a select society of friends led by a charismatic teacher. In both they fall under the influence of the Greek tragedian Euripides: the Bacchae in Tartt, Medea here. And in both to cover up the crimes they commit under the influence of dark divinities, they have to commit murder to keep their secrets. The school here is Elm-Grove Academy. Our narrator Violet is a new girl who is taken under the wing of her new friend Robin and meets her friends, Nicky, Alex and Grace. She is initiated into their secret society led by Anabel, one of the teachers. The society has been in existence since the seventeenth-century, with membership handed down from mother to daughter, employing occult means to punish men for their crimes against women. As it turns out, the girls themselves become some of the victims.I knew something had gone wrong when I reached the third page and read: “Their lives ended and mom’s life stopped.” Wait a moment! Do English girls usually refer to their female parent as “mom”? Fortunately my copy of the English edition reached me a couple of days later so I could check the original and sure enough, someone had systematically, if carelessly, Americanized the text, turning “mum” into “mom” as well as “petrol” into “gasoline”; but these changes are not only unsystematic because sometimes the original contains Americanisms( “elevator” and “lift” both occur). One attempt by a cack-handed revisor I found hilarious. The girls have killed the Dean of the school (he’s no loss—refers to graduates of a girls’ school as “alumni”): English edition: “I saw my chance. ‘I think I saw a petrol can in the garage.’“’No way,’ Alex said. ‘If they find petrol on anything, it won’t look like an accident …’”American version: “I saw my chance. ‘I think I saw a petrol can in the garage.’“‘No way,’ Alex said, ‘If they find gasoline on anything, it won’t look like an accident …’”No indeed, the police will know an American killed the Dean, and our girls will be in the clear.We also get “vacationing” for “holidaying,” “cotton candy” for “candy-floss,” and “sneakers” for “trainers.” The problem isn’t just that the American expressions look uncouth in situ, but that they completely violate the first rule of realistic fiction: that characters remain believable and in character. It also shows the author believes that her readers across the pond are provincial boors.Unlike The Secret History, where I thought I had a good idea of the author’s meaning, I cannot decide here what my take should be. Perhaps as a male reader, I’m not allowed an opinion. From the plot, I gather a tragic version of the sorcerer’s apprentice story, which also fits very well with Euripides’ Medea, as well as both pagan and Christian moral principles. Anger or Ira is one of the seven deadly sins, and when unleashed ultimately destroys the innocent, such as Medea’s children. (I had some real doubts about the author’s knowledge of the Classics when I read: “She [Medea] was the only survivor, walking from Athens wearing the blood of her children.” No, she killed the children at Corinth and she didn’t walk, she flew, in a chariot drawn by dragons to Athens.) But given the feminist beliefs that underlie this story, I suspect we’re supposed to sympathize with Violet at the end. Fortunately we are dealing with a character in a story-book.Happily, American readers who want to read the authentic version don’t have to buy the dumb-downed US version. Given the difference in prices and exchange rates, you can buy the correct English version from Amazon.co.uk and pay the postage and still save on the American hardback, and have an English narrator speaking real English.
2732803542	The Furies, the four of us, taking revenge. The things that we could do, the power we possessed... Our narrator, a sixteen year old girl with the rather unlikely sounding name of Violet, is the survivor of an accident which killed her father and sister. Her mother, endlessly trapped in grief, has more or less checked out of normal life; Violet, funded by the accident compensation, begins attending a private girls’ school, Elm Hollow, which she soon learns has a dark history of witchcraft and death.Befriended by the unpredictable Robin - who for a lot of the time doesn’t seem entirely mentally well - and her friends Alex and Grace, Violet soon finds herself enraptured by her new friends and fully absorbed in their twisted world. But what really happened to the original fourth member of the group, the mysteriously disappeared Emily Frost, who Violet apparently resembles? What are the girls - possibly with the encouragement, or at least complicity, of alarming art teacher Annabel - prepared to do in the name of revenge?The Furies is a very well written and eventful story (there are a number of deaths, some of them fairly blood-soaked) but for some reason I struggled to really engage with it. Maybe I just wasn’t in the right mood. Violet, even while recounting some very painful and intense experiences, felt strangely detached, and by extension so did I. By the end, I was trying to get my head around everything that had happened and why - I’m still not sure I fully understood it all. And I’m still not sure how a girl manages to die while seated on a swing and not immediately fall off.I think a lot of people will love this book and I did enjoy reading it, but somehow it never quite pulled me in to the extent I hoped it would. That said, the author does a good job of depicting the febrile, dangerous world of these teenage girls and the character of Robin, in particular, is very well done.
2707502641	my god i savoured this book. i loved it. i read every word carefully and cemented them into my brain as i didn't want it to end. reminiscent of the craft, but more true-to-life witchcraft, angry vengeful girls, art theory, mythology and murder. what more could i want in a book?! TW for sexual assault and CW for animal sacrifice
2819360641	At Elm Hollow Academy, an all girl's boarding school, there is more than just academics going on as Violet, who lost her father and sister in an auto accident and whose mother has become clinically depressed since will soon find out. Violet is given the opportunity to attend the school because of her grades and her situation.Feeling out of place and awkward she befriends a group of girls, Robin, who seems to be the leader, Grace and Alex. She falls headfirst into their drinking and drugs lifestyle. When she is told her talent in art makes her eligible for an advanced art class which also includes her friends, she jumps at the chance. But what she finds is that their art teacher, Annabel, is not only teaching art but other mystical and occult themes which have been taught to special girls at the school throughout the years.Violet begins to become obsessed with the girls (known as The Furies), especially with Robin. She starts to question situations and finds her life spiraling out of control. She finds out that the year before one the group's friends disappeared and was never seen again. Someone she is told looks similar to her.Violet begins to put two and two together and realizes the occult themes may in actuality be reality. She becomes entangled with her friend's secrets and secret powers and she is frightened, yet she cannot break the spell the group seems to have on her. She feels she is lost and is nothing without them. And when the group implodes on itself she feels the brunt of the guilt. Knowing she can only trust herself she must make some difficult choices.This book has been compared to Donna Tartt's The Secret History one of my all time favorite books and I totally agree!The Furies is filled with history, occult, murder, hate, greed, abuse and envy. A very dark yet delicious read!Thank you #NetGalley #St.Martin'sPress # TheFuries #KatieLowe for the advanced copy. The Furies is available now.
3053205912	** spoiler alert ** Ratings: It's getting a three out of five, because it had so much potential, but after a while, it just fell flat.Pros:-The power of female friendships here. I mean, seriously, the girl's bond was strong and they were all each other had. I love well-written female friendships.-The writing style. It's almost like every paragraph has a little poem tucked within it. All the imagery was so vivid.-The characters were all strong and well-written, so they were good to read about.-Intelligent use of mythology to represent our righteous cause. -I'm running out of things to say now.-It ended.Cons:-The middle dragged. It dragged on and dragged on and dragged on. Honestly, I couldn't see the light at the end of the tunnel for a while.-The unhealthy, obsessive codependence of the girls. It would be totally cool if it were portrayed to be a bad thing. But it's not. It just made me want to slap everyone.-I almost hated the main character. At first, all she did was complain about how unremarkable she us and how she wouldn't make friends. And then she started helping them murder people. Just she seems like a crazy person to me. I can't sympathise with her because her tolerance for her horrible friends is beyond me.-The 'All Boys Are Evil' message the whole thing gave out. And when they killed the only good guy, it was like, it was a guy, so it doesn't matter that we killed him and ruined his reputation for no fricking reason.-I still want to throttle Violet.-The twisted murder-y Feminist message it sends out. We need to stand up to the patriarchy. But like, every single woman in this book is either useless or evil so supporting them felt wrong. -Nobody's actions had consequences. You murdered someone. Oh no. You murdered an innocent person. Well, that was a mistake but whatever. Anything you do is totally fine and all the dread the reader may be feeling at being caught is pointless because neither of them catch themselves.-I'm not sure why Robin died. I'm still puzzling that one out.-They just keep murdering people. For no reason.-All the characters just kind of disappear at the end.-Their teacher was in on it and everyone got away with everything. I just didn't get the point. Is it showing the evils of revenge? How? There weren't any bloody consequences! -And it just wouldn't end!Final Verdict: I mainly read this because I promised myself I'd finish it. And because I wanted people to receive the consequences of their not morally gray, but totally horrible actions. And to yell at the MC. It's readable, even interesting every hundred pages. And the magic stuff has no bearing on the plot, BTW, if you want to know. The book was at times meandering and pointless. But I finished it. And rated it 3/5. Make of that what you will.
2819878432	Violet at 16 is a vulnerable and isolated young girl. Her father and sister died tragically in an accident and her mother simply can't cope with her own grief never mind Violet's. No-one else had seemed to want to take responsibility either so Violet was told to take however much time she needed off school until she felt better. Now tell a 15-year-old girl that and you just don't see them for dust.Twelve months later exams had been taken and Violet had returned to school for them. She had miraculously done ok but knew that with the right teachers that she could have smashed it. When her mother suggests that she uses insurance money from the accident that she had been in with her dad and sibling to further her education then she jumps at the chance. Violet enrolls at Elm Hollow Academy for girls.Elm Hollow Academy is a pretty creepy place, with a creepy colourful history of strange goings on to go with it. Violet is taken under the wings of a group of girls, with one girl, Robin, having a particular interest in her. The four of them are invited by the art teacher to take extra special classes. The story takes on a real dark side and opens up a 'secret school' tradition that only a handful of pupils can be part of.The things that bind the girls together are also the things that drive them apart as the more they learn the hungrier they become to get to the ultimate goal. They find themselves on a roller coaster of events that they can't seem to stop. Friendships and trust are pushed to the limit in the tight group. Now I will make it clear that this felt more like a book for teenagers and seems to focus more on the story than the characters. There are a couple of shocking storylines that the girls follow, which are a little disturbing but at the same time make thrilling read that left me feeling uneasy.Murder, mystery and the occult are all busy storylines in this book. A very creepy read for teenagers.Many thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an e-copy of this book which I have reviewed honestly.
3689826509	I’m right in the middle with this one, I didn’t love it but I didn’t hate it either. Some parts were incredibly interesting and at times I was thoroughly enjoying this novel and convinced it would be a five star read because there’s nothing I enjoy more than a good witchy novel! This one had some original and unique ideas that I really did enjoy but then one element in particular threw me off the story. The characters are just so insufferable at times that I wanted to rip my eyeballs. They were seriously next level annoying and had no redeeming factors whatsoever. So while the story was great, the characters prevented it from being as good as it could have been.
2829146819	Book reviews on www.snazzybooks.comThe Furies is an atmospheric YA novel of teenage rebellion, witchcraft and pack mentality. It tells the tale of the four teenage girls at a private girls’ school, where another teenager has been found dead, and the premise sounded so interesting, so I picked it up despite not usually reading a lot of YA novels.We don’t know who main character Violet, who has been thrust into the school life after her father and brother die in a car accident, can trust – if she can even trust herself? – and there’s a sense of threat as she tries to navigate cliques, after school ‘activities’ and legends passed down which seem to be designed to scare and shock. Her friends and peers seem to be incredibly annoying, self-obsessed and scheming, and I didn’t find them at all likable – perhaps I’m just too old? – so I didn’t really care what happened to them, apart from Violet perhaps, but still appreciated the creepiness that unfurls throughout its pages.Some of the novel felt a little long and for me could have been trimmed down. I know this is a novel about teenage girls, so it’s to be expected, but at times I felt like there was too much ‘teenagers desperately showing how cool and grown up they are’ , which reeked of desperation from Violet and her gang. I know that’s kind of the point of the novel, but damn they were annoying!The Furies really is filled with teenage drama, so if that’s your cup of tea then this novel will be right up your street. It’s an entertaining and fun (if a little dark) read, but I didn’t enjoy it as much as I expected to.
2804180644	Hail to the Guardians of the Watchtower of the Struggle Bus! As a HUGE fan of the Craft it was hard NOT to do comparisons of this and as such, this is how the casting would've compared:Robin is Nancy (hello crazy town). Violet is Sarah (the new girl to complete the circle). Alex is probably Rochelle and Grace Bonnie (but both characters felt a bit interchangeable). Chris is Tom, Nicky is definitely Laura (but a little bit nicer) and The Furies are Manon. We never get a beautiful butterfly scene but we do see the escalation as things play out.Taking away from any comparisons, the beginning and middle of this book are slow going. There's a lot of build up without a lot of bang. HOWEVER, the last quarter of the book does make up for this somewhat as I did like where the author took us with the story. I just felt disengaged at this point. All the characters are terrible people, either doing terrible things or having terrible things done to them. I wouldn't have minded if everyone died (and let's be clear, I actually don't mind feeling this way towards characters so this was all a plus in my book). I think those that love the slow burn with the witchy feel of a group of girls taking matters into their own hands will enjoy this read.
2973954713	During the 90's a young girl is found dead on her boarding school's property - Elm Hollow Academy. The author takes us back to the events leading up to the discovery of this young girl. Elm Hollow Academy has a connection to 17th century witch trials; a professor, Annabel, takes four students under her wing to study this history. The girls begin to believe that the magic is real. We follow Violet, who is new to the school, and becomes a part of Annabel's classes. She is sucked into the mystery of the magic and the events leading up to this young girl's death. The mystery of this novel is interesting and intriguing. There is a lot of in-depth discussion about Greek history and what the students are studying which took me out of the mystery a bit. The writing is well done.
2859079071	***Thank you to NetGalley for providing me a complimentary copy of THE FURIES by Katie Lowe in exchange for my honest review.***A year after the death of her father and sister, Violet enrolls at an exclusive English girls’ school with a history dating back to witchcraft. Toxic friendships. Ancient rituals. Mythology. Magic. Supernatural? The power of suggestion?THE FURIES has one of the best covers I’ve seen in recent memory. The cover alone should sell thousands of copies. That alone made me want to read the book. From the blurb I assumed the book was YA. The intro felt more like literary fiction. From chapter one on, I wasn’t certain what genre I was reading. I don’t believe books need to fall into specific categories, but classification sets my expectations. If I’m in the mood for a YA book, I usually don’t want to be ensconced in literary fiction. I’m not looking for a light humorous book when I read literary fiction. I know that other readers are less anal.I had a hard time connecting to Violet. I wanted to know more about who she was before the accident, what her family was like etc. I wanted to feel some emotion in and about her and see some personality.THE FURIES gave me neither for whom I could root or a plot/mystery I was engaged in enough to care about the conclusion. I didn’t feel much of a payoff. If THE FURIES wasn’t an ARC, I would not have finished.I do think THE FURIES will have a niche of readers, perhaps even a larger group of fans, who will enjoy the book very much.
2737763467	This book was... something. Full review to come.
4118066302	3,5 QUÉ BIEN ME LO HE PASADO.
3972112956	Loved the writing but the plot was a bit aimless
2781782608	Violet is in need of a fresh start after losing her father and sister. Seeking to escape her traumatic family situation, Violet enrolls in an all-girls boarding school on the outskirts of her town. Awkward and unsure where to find her fit within the student body, Violet sees her chance to form a group of friends after being invited to an advanced study group held by her mysterious and captivating art teacher, Annabel.Violet forms a fast friendship with the three other girls in this group. Alex, Grace, and Robin embrace Violet and together with their teacher, they start to dive into the school’s long-buried history of witchcraft. The school seems to be the home of occult interests, dating all the way back to the founder. Annabel insists her lessons are not to sway the girls into rites and rituals, but to enlighten them to history and mythology. The girls see it differently and they are soon convinced that they should learn to harness the magic they have been studying. As their actions start to spiral out of control, Violet finds herself unsure who to trust, including herself.THE FURIES is Katie Lowe’s captivating debut into the lives of four teenage girls who are seemingly misfits at their boarding school. Each girl has something they’re hiding in their personal lives, something that draws them to feel lost and unsure. Together they have built a support system. They have also built an interest in witchcraft and the possibility that they could harness magic to be used to seek vengeance on those who have wronged them.As with any book revolving around teenagers, THE FURIES does have a strong Young Adult presence. As someone who does not predominantly read in this genre I was a bit concerned starting my read. Lowe quickly took away any doubts I had about the enjoyability and content within the pages of her book. Is there school-aged drama? Of course, but it’s written in a way that makes it relatable for a reader of any age, rather than feeling childish. I do think some readers might find the initial few chapters to be heavily YA, but I urge you to give it time as Lowe flushes out the characters.THE FURIES is not a complicated story, but it is one that I found to be entertaining and a light read. The book certainly touches on some darker areas, but the writing is not overly graphic or gory during those sections of the book. Overall the material, layout, and writing of THE FURIES makes for a binge-worthy, coming-of-age read perfect for the autumnal season!Disclosure: A huge thank you to St. Martin’s Press for sending me a free copy of this book in exchange for my honest review!
2796413180	This was a very weird book, that I wish I liked more than I ended up liking.The first thing that struck me about this book was the writing. It's very descriptive and while that it is nice sometimes I wish I got to the point more at times.Its also told in the past tense. Which I found weird at first, because it's a spoiler in itself, without knowing.I did like the strong female friendships in this group but I just got a bit tired on the constant drama, drugs and parties. It's not something I enjoy to read about I did like the witch craft element to the book, I think that was quite unique and something a bit different, from your average YA thriller.I also really didn't like the ending. I can't discuss it because of spoilers but if you're read this book, I guarantee you're end up going to the synopsis and reading it again.Overall, it was just okay for me. I could see what the author was trying to do but it just didn't amaze me. It did however, remind me a lot of undead girl gang, so if you liked that book you may like this one too.Trigger warnings for animal abuse, murder and blood/gore
2930099000	"Heaven help the woman who is perceived imperfect, or of unusual character."I read The Furies a while back, and apparently I never posted a review for it. I enjoyed this one! I know there are some pretty mixed reviews. I think part of the reason I enjoyed it more than others is because I had the opportunity to be informed by the early reviewers that this is more of a slow burn drama than an intense thriller or horror story. This is totally fine, and the book still has horror and thriller vibes, but I'm glad I knew in advance. I wouldn't fully compare it to these stories, but it's a little reminiscent of Bunny, Foul is Fair, and The Craft (and I love all of these). Although I enjoyed it, I felt that there was too much reliance on school lessons. Everything they learned in school somehow magically pertained to what was going on in the story, and eventually, I was annoyed by it.I wish the book would have gone a little deeper with the characters, but it was still an entertaining read. I recommend The Furies if you like gothic witchy books!CW - rape, animal sacrifice / cruelty
2998634616	Tässä kirjassa oli ainekset niin paljon parempaan kokonaisuuteen. Mutta tämä oli niin tylsä ja epäuskottava, että välillä teki mieli hakata päätä seinään. Miten voi onnistua saaman näin mielenkiintoisista teemoista näin kehnon kokonaisuuden? Loppu oli jo pakko mennä harppoen eteenpäin, kun saunan pesu alkoi tuntumaan kiinnostavammalta tekemiseltä kuin lukeminen.
2953257305	Teenage angst, jealousy, and rage at an all-girls boarding school leads to murder and mystery. The Furies by Katie Lowe follows the new friendships of Violet who has experienced more than her share of tragedy. Her new friends are a mysterious group who don't seem to be totally open or honest with Violet, but she is desperate to fit in and make friends.
3141418751	I was going to be generous because this is a debut, but unfortunately this didn’t work for me. I wanted - and expected - a book about a boarding school and The Craft and murder. That was my mistake.
4589148002	4.5 stars.
4627949571	3.5 it was setting itself up to a great last third but unfortunately it fell flat for me.
2964855080	Before I jump into the review I’d like to thank NetGalley and St Martins Press for allowing me to read and review this titlePrior to its publication. I am so grateful to have the opportunity to do so.Let’s start with the positives. The cover and the synopsis of this book really drew me in. 1990s high school with a secret society. Possible ties with witch craft. Sign me up! What I expected- Nostalgia and something similar but not the same as the movie The Craft. Loved that movie and the characters in it. I expected strong friendships between the girls shrouded in a mystery of what happened to the previous fourth member. We eventually find out at the end what happened to this other girl and I have to say I was surprised. What I got- Let me preface this with the fact that what I’m about to say is in no disrespect to the author. This book was just not for me. The way that Katie Lowe described the small town made me depressed. I understand that it was to create an atmosphere but it just made me feel weird. I don’t know how else to describe it. The friendships in this book were toxic. I enjoy a mean girl from time to time but the ringleader of the group Robin was out and out cruel. At no point in the book did I ever change my opinion of her. I didn’t like her attitude, her foul mouth or the way she treated the people around her. I also feel that the author spent so much time and effort on making Robin a stand out character that the other girls fell to the wayside. Everyone else seemed interchangeable. It’s like I felt this strong dislike for Robin and a complete disconnection from the other girls. I almost DNFd this book a few times but I pushed through telling myself to just keep reading and it will get better. It did not. I have a number of bookish friends that are looking forward to this book and I will not discourage them from picking this up. Everyone has different tastes and different reading experiences. However, I will not go out of my way to recommend it to anyone else.
2908272872	“The Furies”Written by Katie LoweReview written by Diana IozziaIn a startling debut, Katie Lowe excels at creating horror for the teenager generation, in a way that feels nostalgic and yet refreshing. “The Furies” follows a nervous, hurt, and gullible teen named Violet, who enrolls at a mysterious high school. The grounds have a dark history, some believing that witches were once burned at the wych elm. Violet falls into the wrong crowd, who influence her into doing drugs, drinking, partying, and occult magic. You know, the usual high school experience.Violet becomes the closest with firecracker Robin, a girl who just does not understand when to stop. Alex and Grace are the other two girls in their ‘study group’. The ‘group’ meets nightly with their art professor, Annabel, who helps the girls study occult magic. Underlining these plot elements, we also have the mystery of Emily Frost, a missing girl who was once very good friends with Robin, Alex, and Grace. Violet fears that she might be the next Emily, but the hands of fate that be trap her in this friendship, and she’s not really sure if she wants to leave.I do warn those younger readers that perhaps although this is about young teens, that this might be best for students 17-18 and up. There is a brutal rape scene, very grotesque animal killings, and other very hideous murders. One especially had me creeped out for far too long. It’s very disturbing.One of the interesting elements of this story is the dynamics of the friendship group. I feel that as teens do, we all once became influenced by others. For some more than others, peer pressure can be severely harmful. Violet is terrified of what her friends and she are doing, but she does not want to be alone. We can all relate to Violet and wonder how far we would have gone at that age. This book reminds me of many movies and books I enjoy, including: “Jennifer’s Body”, “The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina”, “Carrie”, “My Best Friend’s Exorcism”, “Scream”, “The Craft”, and “The Vampire Diaries”. There’s also a little bit of an influence from the Witch Trials / Salem episode of “Scooby Doo”, if you believe it. I find that it can be difficult for me to really love a book about teens. Sometimes, they feel unrealistic or exaggerated in their dialogue or plot choices. However, I thoroughly enjoyed this one. I do truly enjoy teen horror. Unfortunately, the story wrapped up very strangely in my opinion, and that let me down a bit. I would still give this book a four out of five stars as its rating, and I do plan to re-read it at some point, to see if after understanding the ending, if I would enjoy it more.I received an advance reader’s edition from St. Martin’s Press. Thank you again.
2823546178	I received this book via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. I give this book 3.5 stars. The book started off a little slow for me, but it did pick up pace. I found the descent into madness fascinating, all for a young girl coming of age and wanting desperately to fit in. I felt bad for Viv, but thought the ending was well done.
2816252665	Full review here: theantagonistdiaries.wordpress.com/20... It is hard to admit, but this book didn’t work well for me. It took me a while to get into the story. Even had to go back and reread pages. For me, it has a very weak start and struggles to gain speed to keep readers attention. I put a lot of efforts not to fall asleep. This book was really anticipated. Not only because it has a beautiful cover. The blurb was so promising. If you’ve read some of my other reviews, you will probably know that I love mythology. And The Furies are not that familiar as characters in comparison with The Fates. I was so excited, but… First of all, the author’s writing didn’t work for me. Sometimes I really got confused and as I already said- I had to go back and reread paragraphs or pages. It is a huge mess. We have a dialog or monologue and somewhere between we have the character’s inner thoughts. But they sound with the same voice it is hard to separate them. On the other hand, we have a series of events which are completely different but again they sound the same. For me, she failed by giving each character their own voice. To make them pop and be distinguished from the mass. Our narrator – Violet, felt not so convenient. While Robin pops a bit more. I don’t want to talk about Alex and Grace because although they are part of the crew, their presence is as unnoticeable as their absence. The story is said to be about four reckless girls, not so sure about it tho.A huge thanks to NetGalley and Harper Collins for the ARC of this novel in exchange for my honest review. All thoughts are mine!
3014649540	I really wanted to LOVE this book. But I just didn’t. It was just okay. Half the time I was extremely confused about who was talking and the parts with Annabelle as a teacher didn’t even make sense to me. It was very like “The Craft” in certain ways but not in the ways I was hoping for. However, I really enjoyed the lessons they gave me on Greek Mythology, which was the most interesting to me. The characters were very hard to connect with also and felt like the only character I got was Violet and Robin.It was a slow-burn as well so definitely thought a lot of it could have been sped up to more of “get to the point already” if you know what I mean...3 out of 5 stars for me!
3072827548	Originally published on The Nerd Daily | Review by Tasha LeighHave you ever read a novel that you could swear was fanfiction but its seems like no one else has noticed? That is this novel. Going in it felt a little familiar but by the time I got to around 10%, I could have sworn it was following the plot of The Craft. For those of you not in the know, The Craft was a 1996 movie that starred everyone’s favourite 90’s actresses Robin Tunney and Neve Campbell, alongside the amazing Fairuza Balk and rounded out by the stunning Rachel True. At the time, it was a movie that was so ridiculously taboo that all my friends, as well as myself, were banned from watching because our parents must have been afraid we would turn into a mass of tiny goth children yelling ‘We are the weirdos mister’ and scaring the other children. But I mean when your parents say no, you just have to right? Following its surprise success, it became a cult classic and everyone embraced their inner goddess while chanting ‘light as a feather’ and pretending to lift their bestie off the floor. It’s a movie I have seen roughly eight million times so, if there’s a fanfiction regardless of whether its meant to be one, I will pick up on it. But I digress.Going in, I got distinct The Craft vibes, which is not a problem because as you may realise, I absolutely adore that movie. The further in I got, the more it was resembling it. From the meeting at the bus stop, to the attempted thieving of ritual candles and the summoning on random deities in a field, it’s all there as subtle (sometimes not so subtle) nods to one of my favourite movies of all time. Even the book cover looks distinctly like that powerful portrayal of teenage anger that graces the movie’s poster. Thankfully around the 65-70% mark, it changes direction, although honestly, I kind of wished it would remain all girl power and vengeance. Also, don’t get me wrong, I love a good fanfic – Carry On is a perfect example of things done right. Going through the reviews written by other people, however, no one else seems to have made this connection that I have found. Maybe I am drawing parallels that don’t exist, I wont know until someone else who is a great lover of 90’s girl power movies weighs in.So, the narrative follows Violet, the new girl to her school and daughter to a fairly recently deceased parent. Her mother has gone off the rails due to the loss of her husband and youngest daughter and Violet has been left to continue on with her life despite the hardships she has endured in losing her father and sister. On starting at her new school, she meets the weird but intriguing Robin (I know, I saw that too) and her two friends, Grace and Alex, who collectively are the weird kids at school. But I mean, weird isn’t necessarily bad right? Together the four attend special classes with the school’s art teacher and learn about things that are a little more occult than your standard high school syllabus. Antics ensue and then things start happening that eventually get worse resulting in a rather surprising ending.As a standalone coming-of-age crossed with witchy business novel, it fills all the briefs. There’s the drug addict and the rich snob, the pushy guy, and the overprotective teacher, but there’s also the mystery of a dead girl on the school grounds to throw a spanner in the works and people pointing fingers in every direction they can think of in order to find her killer. It’s all relatively fast-paced and punchy with the pace staying fairly steady throughout. I will warn you now though reader, if you don’t like the thought of underage girls getting drunk, taking drugs, and doing things that are completely illegal, this novel is not for you.Each character has its place but overall most are pretty standard for a teenage thriller. There’s the mean girl, the preppy one, the outcast, and the new kid. Although no one really stood out as a favourite, the 4 way sisterhood has been tried, tested, and everyone knows it works, so I didn’t really expect to be choosing favourites. While it’s not the classic ‘everyone bonds for the common good’ type scenario, the friendships between the girls for the majority of the book are goal-worthy in a genre that usually pits teenagers against each other for the fun of it.Here is where I will let you know, as mentioned before, there is illegal activity and underage drug and alcohol abuse. There is also a rape, it’s not a violent scene a la Bardugo’s Ninth House, but it does traumatise the character involved and there is deliberate ignoring of protests. There’s animal sacrifice as well as an inappropriate relationship with a minor. While most of these themes are relatively stock standard and not particularly impactful (for the most part), readers who are sensitive to these should go into the novel aware of their presence. There is also a scene involving a characters death and subsequent displaying of their body – while not graphic, it may be traumatising to some readers.So, this is getting really long winded and should probably be wrapped up before you click the back button and head to greener pastures. Overall it is a well-balanced novel that is extremely reminiscent of The Craft for a long period. Its characters are well-rounded, each performing their role within the sisterhood in a relatively enjoyable fashion. While I can’t choose a favourite, most characters play well to their strengths. The pacing is punchy and flows fairly quickly, addressing themes that while sometimes disturbing are relatively norm in today’s young adult scene. I found it to scratch the itch I never realised I had and would recommend it to those who love witchy coming-of-age stories and ones which end with the ultimate karmic retribution.
3166364784	This book reminded me of a mixture of The Graces (Laura Eve), meets The Girls (Emma Cline) meets The Heathers (film), which means I enjoyed it very much! I would describe it as an exploration of teenage friendship, the lust for power, and witchcraft, mixed with a murder mystery; an interesting mix and one which kept me turning the page. The setting is great, the characters are intriguing, flawed and multi-faceted, and the prose was explosive. The only issue I had with it was that the ending was a little bit 'open' for my liking, and although I know this was on purpose, I would have still preferred more answers!
2941595257	"Keep your secrets, poppet; keep them close. Let our will be your fate."I think I knew from the first chapter, this book was just not for me. I didn't care for the narrator. She wasn't terribly likable, which is not necessarily something I need, but I didn't enjoy reading her POV. She was thoroughly unpleasant. I also think the writing style was.....bogged down with information that just seemed to distract me, bore me or make me roll my eyes. I wish I'd liked this more but it just wasn't for me.
3773087313	2.75 stars.
2814037349	Rating 3.5 starsTold by the main protagonist, Violet as an adult, we look back to 1998 when a 16-year-old girl is found dead on school property, dressed in white and posed on a swing, with no known cause of death. The story looks back at the events leading up this tragic discovery.After her Dad and sister are killed in a car crash that Violet miraculously survives, she enrols in Elm Hollow Academy, a private girls school in a dilapidated quiet coastal town where she lives. It soon becomes apparent that Elm Hollow has an unpleasant history as the site of some famous 17th century witch trials, something the Dean of the school has an interest in. She soon gets involved with a group of girls - the glamorous and streetwise Robin, who introduces Violet to alcohol, drugs and older boys, privileged rich girl Alex and the quieter, troubled Grace. Violet is happy to be included in a friendship group, having had few friends at her previous school. She cements her relationship with the girls when she is invited to become part of an advanced study group by art teacher Annabel.Before long the girls become interested in witchcraft and after a ritual, convince themselves they have summoned The Furies. Part of Greek mythology, The Furies were the female underworld deities of vengeance, sometimes referred to as "infernal goddesses". Things take a distinctly darker turn as Violet gets more deeply involved with the girls, especially Robin. When a missing teenage girl (who happens to have been Robin's best friend) turns up dead, Violet starts to question her friendship and who she trusts.First of all, I'm not sure what genre this book falls in to - it was described to me by the publishers as a literary thriller but after discussions with my husband, we have decided on YA - it is primarily about 16 year old girls and their friendships. Despite it being set over 20 years ago, I think a lot of the issues raised in this book would still apply to teens today.I struggled to get in to this at first - it felt a little slow and didn't immediately capture my interest. It had an American feel to me (a school holiday was described as Spring Break) and because I have had no experience of elite 6th form colleges I couldn't help but picture an American college! I also couldn't get the movie "The Craft" out of my head which didn't help as I kept visualising the 4 girls in this novel as the 4 girls from the film! But I stuck with it and I'm glad I did because I soon became caught up in this dark twisty thriller. None of the girls are very nice, even to each other and at times that was difficult to read about. This is the ultimate study of toxic female friendships and girl power! As the novel progresses the girls start to feel almost invincible, and things gets very dark. This was a thrilling read and as I love anything to do with witches and the supernatural, it was a great book for me to read.
4727630621	“in the cold light of suspicion, every kindness became a threat; a goodness made sinister.”Sometimes, you don’t realise that you need to read a book to feel.I’m pretty sure I picked up The Furies because it had spent enough time on the TBR list (thanks Orangutan Librarian for bringing this book to my attention!) but what happened was that I devoured the book on a day where I felt listlessly unproductive and it brought back the feelings of the intensity of youth and made the day feel pretty worth it.The Furies is supposed to be about a murder. We know, when the book starts, that a girl has been found dead. We also know that Violet is the new girl at an exclusive all-girls boarding school; a school with a history of witchcraft. When Violet joins a new, secret class on history, myths, and magic, she quickly finds herself closer to the possibility of power than before.So… this book. I just finished it and honestly, it was an experience. I know there are deaths and disappearances in this book, but I found it more to be an experience than a mystery. Violet’s feelings: especially her insecurity and her rage were very clear and strong to me. Why are witches so attractive? Because they provide an example of power in a world where she feels powerless. Why does she cling to friends that may not be actual friends? Because she wants to belong. In a way, Violet’s feelings are an intensified version of what I used to feel, especially the part about friendship insecurity.And though the book is about a group of four girls, the two stars are really Violet and Robin. Violet as the one who feels like an outsider, Robin as the friend who alternates between hot and cold, whose true feelings violet is never really sure of either. Are they truly friends, or is Violet just a substitute for a friend who has gone missing? This unanswered question is what drives Violet’s actions and makes for compulsive reading – we can see that Violet is making some not-too-wise decisions, but we understand why.There’s also a lot in here about myths (greek myths, of course), and I thought the tinge of magic made the book feel a lot more intense. Are we just experiencing the world through violet’s eyes, where you tell yourself stories while believing in them? Or is there truly magic at work, that rituals have power and witches are real? In a way, this book reminded me of You Let Me In, where the story can be read in two ways.As you can tell, I really liked this book. It’s not the most pleasant read, and most of the characters here aren’t pleasant, but it is intense and it was what I needed on an unproductive day during a stressful season.This review was first posted at Eustea Reads
2677321013	This book was blurbed as a successor to the Craft, and in parts this is true, but equally apt is a partial comparison to The Secret History. In reality though this book was very hard to quantify. The tale of a new girl to an existing group of three friends who meet in secret and are displaying an increasing interest in spells and rituals is almost a trope, but this mixes in a tragic home life for our main character Violet which provides some real pathos as she tries to navigate a private school environment. What follows could be a supernatural tale of spell driven revenge and self destruction involving the mysterious disappearance of Violets predecessor in her new group - before escalating to encompass revenge, domestic violence, abuse and murder. Equally though the book presents the idea that magic is nothing more than a shared delusion as a product of simmering frustration at the place of women in the world harnessing their sense of rage and injustice.As someone who would have been approximately this age at this time, (late 1990’s) and was brought up in a run down seaside town the nostalgia was very real. The teen feelings and behaviours rang true, as they made increasingly illogical, yet understandable, decisions. As an adult you can see an easy fix to a lot of the dramas and fraught situations they encounter, but their reactions were very appropriate (if heightened). Where this book really worked for me was the previously mentioned exploration of the place of women. It explores the expectations on young women around sex, explores a violent home life for one of the girls and the wilful way everyone politely ignores it. Through unorthodox history lessons it explores the erasure of powerful women in myth and hints at the power that could be drawn from those we do know of. It also shows how delicate friendships can be during hormonal teenage years, and how quickly misunderstandings and resentments take hold. The voice of the protagonist, Violet, is clear and distinct and the way in which she wastes her potential during the novel is both believable and frustrating. If you’re looking for an action packed explosive teen thriller with set pieces and supernatural whizzes and bangs, then this book is not for you. What you will discover is a careful study of the chaotic teen mind, an exploration of how friendship, loyalty and love can become sour and twisted, and an interesting study of what it shouldn’t, yet does, mean to be a young woman today. Very thought provoking.
2817116801	CW: death of a parent& sibling,drug use,heavy drinking,rapeThis was such an odd little book and I think at least part of its charm comes from that. It was in an even more liminal state,not quite YA,yet not quite adult,an old mix of a youth story reframed through an adult mindset looking back. It was such an interesting in depth analysis of the life altering, overwhelming toxic relationships and bonds people can form with one another and the way they set you up for the future. There are many forms of grief interwoven throughout the story,some more noticeable than others,some less explored than others,yet compelling nevertheless. I do wish some of the character study would have gone more in depth, there are quite a few narrative gaps that,while interesting to attempt to fill in by yourself,it did almost make it feel as if there was half the story missing. I thought the main character herself was rather lifelike and whatnot,but the rest of those around her definitely not as much. Part of it seems like it's because of them being portrayed through the perspective of this wee bit clueless person,especially in retrospect after years since the events of the book, but part of it just feels like a bit of an afterthought. Since the dynamics between these girls is what's really at the core of the book, I do wish we would have gotten to see more of that. You get to know about as much as the character does about her best friend,but I,for one,still have a lot of questions about her. The other two girls,however,have definitely not received the same kind of attention. You still get the main idea of them and how they all function as a group and individuals within that,but,alas,there was still something missing for me.I do have to say there should be extra points give by the unique take on witchy YA/thriller. As previously mentioned, I feel like it's the hybrid quality of the book that gives it some of its value. When it come to the witchy element in particular,as that is what initially drew me into the book,I will go further and say that 1.I loved the ambiguity and the uncertainty as to what is of this world and what is above it,I do love some blurred lines between the real and the surreal and 2.I thought the use of a Classical framework made this such a unique take on this type of story and it overall added to that dark academia aesthetic as well,which was a really nice touch.
2840755513	With its references to mythology and classic literature, its private school setting, exclusive ‘study group’ and murders it’s not hard to see why I was getting a sense of The Secret History as I read this. Unlike that book, I never got the feeling that our narrator - Violet - was trying to establish herself as better than the group she joins. If anything, her naïveté and somewhat gauche decision-making is understandable and stops us totally disliking her.Opening with what becomes a key closing image meant there was a definite sense of inevitability to the events contained within. At the beginning, when we’re told about Violet’s family situation, it’s hard not to feel some sympathy for her. How wise the decision to go to this exclusive Academy to study A-levels was is not up for question - but, with an absent mother dealing with grief by opting out, it’s not hard to see how easy it was for Violet to be seduced by the camaraderie offered to her.Violet does not seem particularly likeable. She ignores obvious issues with those attempting to befriend her, gets herself into crazy situations and seems content to put it down to being seduced by the thrill of what’s happening. The blurring of moral boundaries and the toxicity of the girls’ friendship seemed, to me, to be at the heart of the story. As it’s a theme often explored, linking it to the supernatural and the age-old obsession with ‘difference’ offered another way in.As the events progressed, it was genuinely hard to work out exactly who was guilty of what. There were hints of so many characters doing inappropriate things that part of me couldn’t help but feel it was inevitable that they’d pay a price of some sort, eventually.Though this bore resemblances to a number of stories, I felt it came into its own as we watch Violet at the end. Older, a little wiser, but still part of the ongoing cycle that seems to be so vilified throughout.
2850296266	5/5 Katie Lowe made me appreciated what friendship is. The Furies is outstandingly interesting from the first moment I got it courtesy of Book Hooked Box. It's a rather basic plot all too familiar to Mean Girls in my opinion but with a rather compelling depth into it. Violet becomes a version of herself she never imagined thanks to her new sisters and the lessons they privately take. Mysteries rises, magic is blossoming, and you can't look away from it. This book really took my breath away. It's spell draw me into it the moment I opened the first page. It is simply grandeur, sassy and downright terrifying something and not afraid to go and explore those red lines, the limits we are uncomfortable with. The writing although looks rather customary as of any Young Adult but it doesn't do that, Lowe got the sparks in her fingertips and every word made me swoon. It is personal, relate able and downright somber.I highly recommend you take a moment of your time and read this.God I beg you.
2943621270	Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin's Press and the author Ms Katie Lowe, for the opportunity to read this Advanced Readers Copy of "The Furies" releasing October 8th 20194 starsA strong female tour de force featuring four young "witches" and things that don't go bump in the night.Teenage angst gets a new spin with this edge of your seat read. There's an old private school with a dark, mysterious past; teachers that are engaging and inspiring but might have hidden agendas.Life is a struggle for young "Violet", her Mother has basically checked out of life. "Robin" is beautiful and talented but has a mean streak. "Alex" and "Grace" are a strong female couple with family issues of their own.Bringing these four teenage girls together who are angry at life, school, ex's and parents... typical teenage issues, except, how they handle their problems is completely unorthodox, totally frightening, and nothing you could ever imagine.
2952799086	Even though the story itself was written really well, The Furies is not the book for me. The insecurity and need to be part of a group in spite of anything, the toxic friendships, the desperate need of revenge and the horrifying methods (black magic) of obtaining this revenge were simply not my cup of tea. On the one hand I enjoyed the use of art, mythology and witchcraft to shape the gloomy setting, but personally I had hoped for a broader view of (the history of) witchcraft.Storywise, The Furies was great. It has an amazing build up of tension, it was sinister and spooky and I was on the edge of my seat wanting to discover what had happened. Given the toxic friendships and the lengths the character went to, I distrusted most of the characters at a certain point which made it both exciting yet a little unbelievable. However, the ending was strong. I am a big fan of well written open endings and even though it didn't feel much like a big cliffhanger, I liked it either way.
