3588460841	This book would be enjoyed by people who like atmospheric gothic stories and are OK with there not being any plot progressing forward. It doesn’t seek to answer questions or resolve mysteries, but perhaps show the type of lost and empty people vulnerable to cults. The main character experiences a lot of emotional detachment and disassociation, which adds to the eerie atmosphere and a drowsy sense of feeling.
3155713758	School of selected, special, successful, superior students (too many S letters in a sentence seems like special spell. Oh no! Again too many s letters make me feel like stuck in a spell) made me think: Hey, we have some kind gothic, intriguing thriller, more understandable and less brain cell killer version of Ninth House (yes, I was not intelligent enough to enjoy that book.) or some kind of Truly Devious trilogy’s murder mystery with just a little Hogswarts vibes. I have to emphasize that world building and creepy, eerie, dark atmosphere the author created was splendid. I was always a big fan of dark boarding school mysteries, mind games, the secrets behind closed doors, a murderer walks around the corner and he or she can be anyone sits behind you or your best friend or your boyfriend holds the pillow on your face to choke or appear at your bathroom like his spirit captured by Norman Bates and stabs you with newspaper (I think this was Mel Brooks’ version of Psycho!) So yes wait for the unexpected things occur out of nowhere and be suspicious about everyone kind of tricky story telling always works well for me! I think the book failed me for two big reasons even though it had a promising, stunning start: I hate the protagonist (I don’t want to call her heroine because she is just creepy, living in her head with so many obsessions, introvert, feeble, indecisive, I didn’t find any good qualities to like her just a little bit!) The other is pacing! The story stopped in the middle of somewhere. I feel like I was trapped in a school car in the snow storm and I cannot open the doors (Well opening the door is not a solution if I will freeze to death) and when I turn my head to the window, I realize the zombies banging on them. They can break and jump inside any second. So my over exaggerated imagination is scarier and more entertaining than this book’s dragged plot! I think the author is really talented and created a great subplot with full of great ideas and this will be really enjoyable book without too many descriptions or slow burn mystery. If the pace would be a little faster and captivating with more interesting characters, this book could be one of my unputdownable, riveting thrillers that I may really enjoy reading.So I arranged myself a special place in Switzerland that means I’m in the middle: I didn’t enjoy it but I didn’t hate it because there were so many potentials and I still want to read more works of the author. Let’s give solid three stars and wish that my next thriller will be more heart throbbing.Special thanks to NetGalley and Harper Collins Publishers, Custom House for sharing this interesting gothic book’s ARC COPY in exchange my honest review.bloginstagramfacebooktwitter
3071391869	This definitely won't be a book for everyone, but I have to say that I really enjoyed the weird, quirky attributes this story had to offer. Please do not confuse the author's brevity of content for writing that isn't fully expanded upon; each scene is a slow, dread inducing dance that marries mystery with sensuality. The revelations might not be shocking to the seasoned suspense reader, but I felt the overall draw is more in the luscious setting and character interactions that gave me a foggy sense of the space between waking and dreaming. If you enjoy books that leave you wondering what you just read, you can't miss Catherine House.*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.
3386250322	So why didn't anybody tell me how much of my time I was going to waste reading this book? Yes, it was atmospheric. Yes, I was intrigued at the idea of this taking place at a boarding school BUT this book was so boring. The main character was insufferable and did a lot of things that did not make sense. I don't understand what Thomas intended by creating such a frustrating character. At the beginning I thought I would be able to get used to her, but it just got progressively worse. She just seemed so out of it almost like she was drunk the entire book and then it made me feel like I was reading the book in a haze. She didn't care about anything which then made me feel like I couldn't care about anything. I don't even want to get started on the plot. Was there a plot?!? Because if there was a plot or a point to this whole story I completely missed it. I was so confused the entire time that I couldn't even figure out what genre this book was supposed to fall under. It was incredibly slow and dry. Even when the "reveal" occurred I STILL didn't understand the purpose of the book. Honestly ya'll I really wanted to like the book. I thought that this was going to be a thriller/mystery that I would end up loving, but honestly it wasn't worth it. I spent 11 hours of my life listening to this book and now I'll never get that time back and I'm beyond pissed.
3275483293	uhhhh 👀
3547866686	????
3282552403	Read for the Literally Dead Book Club https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...and during this long ass vlog https://youtu.be/WEFpmwhBA7g
3560526045	I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would.this writing is SO good. I don't understand why people are saying there's no plot?? It's Vibes™️ but it's not like there wasn't a solid flow of events that lead up to something which surprised me because I was really expecting no direction whatsoever.— overall thoughts: 4.5 —*All of my reviews are as spoiler-free as possible unless stated otherwise*PSA: I do not consider this as horror or even remotely scaryI'm weak for school and academy settings because of the character relationships that result from that. And this book gave all those dynamics that I was looking for without feeling redundant. The characters are very grey and are prone to teenage mistakes but that just made them feel more tangible and relatable. “Because they have some delusion that to be human and perishable is divine.” I think people expect a dynamic plot but it isn’t that but that doesn't mean it's bad? Honestly, I am so tired of books that try so hard to give out of this world plot twists that the essence of the book suffers greatly. Probably just my personal preference since I think I'm an unpopular opinion 😹Nothing about this book was ever boring to me LIKE.... NOTHING. The story telling was so well done and atmospheric. I was so intrigued by the looming mystery of the house and even though (view spoiler)[that was never given that solid of an answer and a solution (hide spoiler)] I didn't really mind.Definitely a weird book. It explores the mindset and vulnerability of people who are attracted to... associations.. like Catherine. I thought that it was poignant and I see why people might not have felt like this was for them. Don't get me wrong though, I really was just here for Vibes™️ and it delivered!A lot of strings were left untied by the end but I was satisfied with how everything went down. If you just want atmosphere and a good time, with characters that won't annoy the heck out of you and sound like a melodrama is playing in your head, I recommend this book.P.s.chanting people... I swear... one of the creepiest things to listen to audiobooks of["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
3073388980	❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ 3 re-read: I once again loved this. The novel's gothic ambience is truly hypnotic and Thomas really manages to suffuse Ines' experiences at Catherine House with a dreamlike quality. There is a vagueness, a haze, one that makes many scenes opaque, unreachable. Yet, there are moments were the description are bursting with vibrancy: from the tantalising food descriptions to the attention paid to the changing seasons. This novel merits descriptors such as lush, sensual, and atmospheric. But, despite my very first impression, which had me dismiss this book as superficial and affected, I now feel an affinity to Ines, despite her remoteness. The novel doesn't present us with solid character development or particularly multi-dimensional characters, but I believe that Thomas does capture the essence of the people in Ines' lives, and stays true to her protagonist impression of them. There is also a subtle yet nevertheless palpable sense of 'wrongness' permeating Catherine House, and Thomas' sensuous and ethereal language really captures that. The use of repetition—be it words or imagery—is also highly effective as it gives the story a lulling rhythm that is hard to ignore.Set in the 90s Catherine House follows Ines Murillo and her 3 years at Catherine House, a private college-like institution shrouded in mystery. One of the college's central tenets is that its students (and teachers) should leave their past behind, and they are discouraged (read: forbidden) from discussing their families, childhoods, or any of their experiences or attachments they may have formed prior their arrival CH. They will spend the next 3 years in CH, were they have almost no contact with the outside world, meanwhile they can buy things (such as hair products, clothes, trinkets) and earn certain freedoms through a 'points' system. Not only are they closely monitored but they have to abide strict and obscure rules that see them taking part in happenings of a rather esoteric nature. Much about CH remains unknown to us, and even the architecture of house itself seems just beyond Ines' and our grasp. By giving us very little information CH acquires an air of ambiguity that really accentuates the narrative enigmatic tone. Ines' character too is a mystery, and I found myself simultaneously able to empathize with her and to feel slightly puzzled by her outlook and behaviour. She very much reminded me of Shirley Jackson's heroines, in particular, the peculiar & alienated protagonist of Hangsaman, Natalie Waite. They both often dissociate themselves from their surroundings and have a tendency to perceive their world and understand their experiences through dark yet fairy-talesque lenses.There are also certain lines that really reminded me of Jackson's work: “I am in the house, we chanted. The house is in the woods. My hands are on the table. The table is in the woods.” did bring to mind Merricat's “I put my hands quietly in my lap. I am living on the moon, I told myself, I have a little house all by myself on the moon.” Style and atmosphere wise I was also reminded of Magda Szabó's Abigail, Kazuo Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go, and Vita Nostra.Sure, there are certain minor points that I could question or criticise but ultimately I found the writing and Ines' voice so spellbinding that those didn't really matter. I mean, I read this twice in 6 months, so it safe to say that I absolutely loved it. re-read:...turns out I actually love this now...?! The first time I read this I was not impressed but this second time around…well, I loved it. It isn’t an easy book and I can sort of see why it could come across as frustrating…but if you are in the mood for a dreamy and ambiguous Gothic-y read you should consider giving Catherine House a go. If you are a fan of authors such as Shirley Jackson and Helen Oyeyemi, you will probably ‘vibe’ with this book. Speaking of vibes, I saw someone describe this as a book all about vibes and I have to agree. There is a strong focus on the atmosphere of Catherine House and Thomas pays particular attention to the smells and flavours Ines encounters in its walls. Throughout the narrative Thomas juxtaposes beauty with decay, and there were plenty of lush descriptions contrasting the two. Nature too has a role in this story and I loved how Ines describes the seasons. I loved Ines and her ‘sideways’ perspective. Thomas beautifully articulates Ines' conflicting feelings about Catherine House and I truly felt for her. I also loved her friendship group, often their scenes together eased some of the tension from the narrative. Basically, this second time I loved everything about this novel: the eerie setting, the ominous nature of plasm, Ines, her friends, the beautiful writing, the dreamlike atmosphere... I can’t wait to read this again (and maybe write a more cohesive review). 1st read: I initially gave this book 3 stars and was rather unimpressed by it (i deleted my og review as the views i expressed there are no longer of relevance). What I suggest is that you learn from my mistake and do not approach this book excepting the usual dark-academia type of campus novel (that has a clear arc etc.).
3383269225	Claustrophobic, disturbing, and gorgeously written.
3073421649	Catherine House is a college that produces greatness. Those who leave its hallowed halls do so with blazing glory in their future but are oddly tight-lipped about their past. The students there are cut off from the outside world for the entire three years of their stay and pay no price for the education and board they receive. Funding keeps the school alive, as do the mysteries surrounding it. I thought this was going to be a dark academia story, following pretentious scholars and their dark deeds but I never imagined that the school itself would become the central source of intrigue. Protagonist Ines has her own tragic past she is running from, as does every other student to grace the college confines, but they pale in comparison to those of the school and its leaders. Exactly what these secrets are is revealed yet never truly explained, leading this to feel like a strange fever dream of a novel, where nothing can be trusted as truth and everything is experienced in a dream-like haze that disallows the reader to get close to the heart of the matter.I have no words to adequately describe the unsettling experience of reading this novel. I think I enjoyed it and I certainly couldn't put it down. It held me at a distance but I believe this was a purposeful decision on the author's part. It was a sordid fairy tale, a dark academia insight, and a twisted Wonderland trip all in one. I grew to love and to fear the contents as Ines did and left the novel no more certain of what occurred but definitely invested in it, nonetheless.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Elisabeth Thomas, and the publisher, Tinder Press, for this opportunity.
3761836695	w.h.y.
3363552066	What a strange novel! Catherine House is definitely unlike anything I’ve read before. It’s odd, mysterious, confusing, and very blunt with its writing. That said, although I loved all the uniqueness and strangeness, the story and end left a lot to be desired.Most importantly — what happened in this book? It felt like the entire story was a lot of strangeness that never came to conclusion. In simpler terms, it felt like there was no rhyme or reason as to why characters were acting the way they were; or why Catherine House was the way it was or anything. Everything/everyone seemed lost and confused, but there wasn’t a lot of connection on that — rather everyone was that way, just because, I guess.Therefore, while I enjoyed the beginning and was eager to see how the mysteriousness of the story would unravel, after the 50% mark once I realized nothing was progressing, I started losing hope, because sometimes there are books that have so much promise but fail to execute. I feel this was one of them.
3151522616	I won this on a First reads Giveaway and I was really excited about the premise.Catherine House is an old exclusive school that offers college degrees in "new materials" and "plasm." Students that are accepted into the school do not need to pay a fee but must live there for three years and cannot have any contact with the outside world. No tv, internet, phones, or visits with family and outside friends. While the initial description of Catherine House seemed creepy and atmospheric and promising it was not meant to be. I just found the whole book a bit odd and dull. I did not care for the main character, Ines at all. Or really any of the characters. It seems with this book you will either love it or hate it. The ratings are very different. I just personally cannot recommend it. It was just not for me. Not the type of story I like. It definitely was not the thriller it was tooted out to be.
3065636978	When I'm lining up forthcoming books I want to read, I tend to think of some as definites and some as maybes. I had Catherine House on the 'maybe' pile. I thought: elite university; newcomer with a secret; idyllic environment in which Things Are Not As They Seem – these are themes and tropes I like, but they've been done a million times, and there's a good chance this will bring nothing new to the table. Boy, was I wrong about that: this is such a rich and intoxicating novel, and it turned out to be the perfect escapist read for these dark times.Catherine House is an exclusive institution – 'not a college, exactly', but something similar; a 'community of minds'. It's shrouded in mystery, but also well-respected, and has produced renowned inventors, prizewinning artists, and two US Presidents. Students choose a 'concentration', but the classes they take are esoteric, with titles like 'Literature of War' and 'Electricities'. Catherine provides clothes, toiletries and lavish meals as well as education and accommodation. The catch is that, for the three years they study there, Catherine residents cannot leave the campus or communicate with the outside world. This suits our narrator, Ines, just fine. She's on the run from a troubled past; for her, the ability to hide is just as appealing as Catherine's exceptional reputation.There's also a science fictional element. Catherine is home to a highly secretive and experimental research discipline known as 'new materials'. Working with 'plasm', these researchers can – so the rumours say – make broken objects whole again. Places in new materials classes are highly sought after, but other students learn little of what they involve. Even so, thermometer-like instruments called 'plasm pins' are used on people too, seemingly to draw out memories and/or reconfigure one's attitude.It all adds up to an exciting, addictive confection. I sailed through it, totally immersed. It is easy to read, but quite beautifully written, balancing on that line between gorgeous and overly whimsical. Every description of food is indulgent, and the details of Ines's golden days made me ache to be there. Ines is an interesting choice of protagonist: stories like this are typically narrated by an outsider, but she's very much part of the in-crowd – someone who really finds her place at Catherine and seems to be accepted and liked by everyone. I enjoyed what Thomas did with her character: giving depth to someone who, on the surface, is not all that likeable or relatable; cleverly making us understand that her frame of perception is being shifted by outside forces, all while holding us within it.Catherine House has a lot in common with Mona Awad's Bunny: it's less gory, but the wild strangeness and lush language are similar. There are also shades of Lara Williams' Supper Club (all that sumptuous food) and, as the sci-fi ingredient, Sara Flannery Murphy's The Possessions. It's lovely and weird and abundant, and I enjoyed it a lot.I received an advance review copy of Catherine House from the publisher through NetGalley.TinyLetter
3113606369	3.5 starsThis wasn't a perfect read but for the most part I did enjoy this one. It might have lost me a little bit at the end but that's okay because my overall opinion is pretty positive. The story is different, or at least compared to most of the books I typically read, and I do tend to place a high value on stories that feel unique.Catherine House is an exclusive school and and its impressive list of alumni includes presidents, Supreme Court justices, writers, inventors, you name it. There are some rules though if you are lucky enough to be selected to attend this higher learning school. You must attend for three years, summers included, and cut off all contact with the outside world including your family and friends. You aren't even allowed to watch television or listen to music. But hey, your tuition, room and board are free and plus once you graduate the possibilities for what you can achieve are practically limitless. So maybe the trade off of a grueling three years is worth it in the end. New student, Ines, is about to find out whether that is true or not.The story has a creepy vibe to it and that's what made it a fun read. I wasn't sure what was going to happen and so all I could do was sit back and enjoy the ride. There's so much mystery to the story and to be quite honest I didn't feel like I got every question answered. Maybe that was intentional by the author or maybe some elements just went completely over my head. Who knows? I do have a few criticisms about the novel. Sometimes the writing felt disjointed as the transitions weren't always the best. At times it felt like the story jumped from point A to point C and it's like how did we get here? Did I miss something? It's like the character just floated from one thing to the next without proper development. I'm doing a poor job explaining it but I guess what I'm trying to say is the execution was a little off. The story just didn't reach maximum potential in my opinion. But as I mentioned before despite a few flaws, this was a pretty enjoyable reading experience. Any time I can step out of my reading comfort zone and try something different, that is a good thing. Thank you to the publisher for sending me a free advance copy in exchange for an honest review!
4238308779	DNF'd at 50% because if i listen to one more second of this i'm gonna cry
3162221237	I was really excited for this one., For no reason it turns out. The characters were undeveloped and the pace was slow.. It would be better labeled a "novel" than psychological thriller because this book never gets you on the edge of the seat. I instead fell asleep.
3376318544	I received a copy of this book for free from the publisher (Custom House) for promotional purposes. I know not a lot of people liked this book, but I oddly liked it. It’s not going to be an all time favorite of mine, but I was satisfied with it. A lot of people say that nothing happens in the book and there is some merit to that. There are a lot of scenes that aren’t that important to the book because they are kind of mundane. To me, I liked those parts because it helped highlight what life was like at the school. The school is the core of the book, so those parts were necessary. Speaking of the school, the author did a tremendous job giving Catherine House a voice and personality. Catherine House was a character itself. As for the ending, I liked it. It was a little ambiguous which I typically don’t like, but for this book it worked. The book is mysterious and I liked that it kept that element through the end. I really liked the writing style. There was something about it that pulled me deeper and deeper into the story. It was haunting and mesmerizing.One critique I have is that the book didn’t do a good job explaining plasm. I still don’t fully understand that part. I understand what it is generally, but don’t grasp how it works.Overall, this book will not be for everyone, so I recommend you read it for yourself and see what you think!
3560006571	While the premise was intriguing, this book’s disjointed and flat writing style wasn’t my cup of tea. I didn’t feel connected to any character, who felt very one-dimensional, nor did I necessarily root for them. It just felt like there was little build up and little pay off, in the end.
3450611879	oh my god.... OH MY GOD!! this was incredible!! so haunting and claustrophobic. I'll be chatting all about this underappreciated book on booksandlala's channel on Saturday and it'll be in a vlog next weekend on my channel!
3325924460	This book is an atmospheric gothic, scifi, YA/ New Adult, sinister boarding school, mystery read. The Catherine House is a super selective and highly coveted school that produces the best minds from their graduates. Because of their very large endowment, tuition is free, but no phones, internet or any contact with the outside world including families for three years. The story is centered around Ines who is running away from her past. The story is seen through her eyes. A slow burn mystery unfolds about an ongoing research on campus about plasma and the mysterious death of a student. The protagonist is an unlikable character who is lazy, undermotivated, skips class, parties and sleeps around with her male and female classmates. Quite the unique heroine. I found the writing to be lyrical, existential and poetic which leads to beautiful descriptions however losing this reader to the muddy plot and delivers a storyline as mysterious as the deaths. I found myself with more questions than answers as the story delves into deep symbolisms that strayed me. I find that many readers may enjoy this type of writing and to still give this read a go. If you like gothic boarding house reads with angst this one is for you. I however enjoyed tapping into this new to me genre.
3885809241	I had seen so many mixed reviews for Catherine House on my timeline that i was understandably apprehensive about picking it up. After reading this i now understand why. The characters are frustrating and at times, quite unlikable. The writing style leans heavily on description and the story as a whole has very little way of plot and also has one of those unbearable open endings. That being said, i enjoyed reading this. I saw someone describe it as "pure vibes" and that description fits well, Thomas has written an incredibly atmospheric book that kept me captivated until the every end. This isn't for everyone by any means, but i am glad i picked it up.
3443288076	A haunting and haunted Gothic coming-of-age novel, full of rich prose and rising dread and strange secrets. It's like if Get Out were a campus novel. I LOVED it.
4133281981	I can see why this is such a polarizing book, but I'm so glad I gave it a chance because I LOVED it. This was so my kind of thing. Weird, brainy, atmospheric, rife with metaphor and big ideas... I would recommend this for people who love books like Jane Eyre, The Starless Sea by Erin Morgenstern, or Lakewood by Megan Giddings because this book shares a lot of DNA with all three.Catherine House is a literary gothic suspense novel set at a super elite, super private college where strange experiments are taking place. Students give Catherine House three years of their life with intense rules, high expectations, and basically no contact with the outside world. In return they get a high quality education for free and the opportunity to have whatever they want out of life. Ines is a first year student with a traumatic past, getting sucked into a dazed life of partying and hooking up with hot boys and pretty girls. But Catherine House will require more of her.... This is the kind of horror that builds slowly and never feels the need to fully explain itself, but if you pay attention a lot of the answers are right on the page. Some readers might not like it because the main character is pretty passive for much of the book. She notices things, but kind of drifts through life. Probably in part due to a trauma response, which is something the book is trying to explore- how people react differently to trauma and loss. Ines is described by a side character as a "bored pretty girl" who everyone likes. Which is accurate but also interesting to see the way she is perceived versus who she is internally and why. This is really just the story of Ines' time in Catherine House- that's the story. This also has something of an open ending. A Schrodinger's Cat if you will, though I won't say more than that. I'm seeing some reviews criticizing her for sleeping with so many people, and that I really take issue with. Casual sex in college isn't uncommon and something we frequently see in similar books with male characters. Just because it's not for you doesn't mean it's cool to judge others for their choices. In fact, I think this book has something important to say about the difference between love and sex, how messy and complicated that is and how people really can want different things. The author has talked about how her experience being a Black woman at Yale, and being a legacy where her father and grandfather experienced racism and mistreatment while there, inspired this story. And I think you can see a lot of that in these themes of being in a place that inspires love, but is also incredibly harmful and predatory. It seems to draw on some of the history of unethical and non-consensual medical experimentation that has taken place with Black and other marginalized communities. The book deals with cognitive dissonance, how we frame identities, and some of the cultural issues that exist in elite institutions of higher learning. You also get this representation of the academic pressure placed on students in universities like this that is both visceral and monotonous. Which I think effectively conveys what that experience is like. Criticism can be harsh and there is constant fear of failure. I found this all incredibly compelling and thought provoking. One other thing I want to mention is if you have read this book and are confused about the meaning of it, or what the plot really was, you may want to read interviews with the author because this is actually a retelling of sorts and once I found out what it was retelling everything clicked more into place and I think this is a brilliant approach to that story. At the end I'll list the story with a spoiler warning, but I would NOT recommend knowing this ahead of time if you haven't read the book because it really does spoil it. This book completely swept me away and gave me all the creepy gothic atmosphere and dark secrets I could want. Definitely one of my favorite things I've read this year! Note that there are content warnings including human experimentation, drugging, suicide, forced confinement, animal violence.SPOILER WARNINGThis book is a retelling of (view spoiler)[ Bluebeard! (hide spoiler)] And I think it does a fantastic job with it.
3799180175	I've said it before and I'll say it again: I don't think I like weird books. This book had a pleasant atmospheric gothic tone but I just really don't understand the point. I can see why this is so divisive. I think it either works for you or it doesn't. I don't have anything overly negative to say beyond that I just generally don't understand why this book is. Like... what was I supposed to get from it? I feel like this book is going to immediately leave my brain and I'm okay with that. Booktube | Instagram | Twitter
3242636747	I am in the house, I said. My hands are on the table. The house is in the woods. 2.5 starsOkay, my feelings on this one are kind of a mixed bag, so it took me a couple of days to untangle them. On the whole, I liked the book. But, of the ~300 pages, I spent about half of them bored and waiting for the action to pick up.The book begins at the start of Ines' first of three years at Catherine House, one of the most exclusive and prestigious colleges in the US. The school is infamous for both its notable alumni and the controversial research published by one of its professors on a mysterious substance called plasm. We don't know anything about this substance, except that it is exclusively Catherine's Thing™ and is studied as part of the college's new materials concentration. The school itself is pretty weird. It only takes three years to graduate, during which time there are no summer breaks (or breaks of any kind) and students aren't allowed to have any contact with the outside world. There are no TVs, wifi, cell phones, newspapers, or letters to/from home. Students aren't allowed to have more than one or two personal objects from before, and all students are provided the same plain clothing and hygiene products. It's like a prison, but not. Ines is at Catherine because she has no place else to go and she is trying to run away from her past. Though she is distant at first, she ends up connecting with several of her peers at the school who chose to attend Catherine for similar reasons as she did. While at Catherine, Ines also develops a sort of preoccupation with plasm, needing to understand exactly what it is. I won't spoil anything, but let's just say the book's ending didn't surprise me, and I kind of knew what was coming from pretty early on. I don't necessarily think that that's a bad thing in this case, but having such a strong feeling about how the book was going to end made getting through the boring parts kind of tedious; I wasn't rushing to get through the book just so I would know how it ends. I will say this, though: I really liked Elisabeth Thomas' writing, and I felt like she told the story through the voice as much as she did through the actual words. You feel Ines' numbness through the author's stark words. If I'm being honest, I probably enjoyed the prose more than the story, and it's because of the writing alone that I'd probably pick up a future book by the author.
3273698821	⭐️⭐️⭐️💫I’m a total sucker for a creepy, private school novel and Catherine House did not disappoint. With gothic elements and a touch of sci fi, this one really sucked me in. Catherine is an extremely elite and mysterious school for kids to attend after high school. The school is free and provides all room and board, but the students are locked within its gates with no outside contact for three years. The studies are immensely challenging and some fields are even groundbreaking. As rigorous as Catherine House is with education and workloads, it’s equally intense with its opportunities for partying, alcohol abuse, and sexual promiscuity.Ines is running. From her life, from her monsters and from the law. Unexpectedly, she’s admitted to the Catherine School and escaping her life and reality for three years is her perfect solution. But Ines can’t run from her inner demons and quickly falls behind at Catherine. “‘You must choose Catherine,’ he said. ‘Not just once, but every day. Choose to be here. Choose to study. To make friends. To succeed. To wake up every day and be alive, and go to work. It’s not an easy thing to do. It can be very hard. But you can do it. I know you can.’ He leaned forward, eyes unblinking. ‘The question is, do you want to? Or do you want to spend the next three years stupid and drunk?’”Deciding to “drink the Kool-Aid,” Ines immerses herself in Catherine House, it’s history, and its secrets and takes the reader on a dark and twisty journey in the process. Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for a copy of this novel in exchange for my honest review.
3572961059	A hazy, dream-like, plotless, meandering tale that pulls you into the monotonous, eerie, and cult-like Catherine House. This book won’t be for everyone, but I loved the strangeness and ambiguity of this story. With Annihilation and Bunny and now Catherine House, I have learned this year that I love unexplained oddness in my fiction. Bonus points for dark academia and sci-fi influences. If you rely on plot and likeable characters to enjoy a book, this one probably won’t be your thing. Our protagonist is suffering from PTSD and depression, and takes in the eerie world of Catherine House through the tell-tale numbness of her condition. I could relate to her quite a bit, but not everyone will. If you like a slice of life character study of flawed and desperate characters with nothing to lose, this will fascinate you. I know I’ll be thinking about this one for a very long time... almost as though I am the house now, too.VIDEO REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bkzuj...Trigger Warnings: death, human experimentation, forced confinementEdited to add: the slut-shaming in a lot of the negative reviews is appalling, y'all. College students having casual sex is nothing new and is completely healthy.You can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | Twitter
3452758459	So I feel like I'm the weird person who doesn't super love or super hate this one. In terms of enjoyment/entertainment, I'd say probably a 2 star, but in terms of executing on the artistic vision of the writer, this feels more like a 4 star. I think going into this expecting a sort of fabulist horror type story will help set the right tone to be able to glen maximum enjoyment from it
3187582123	Ines comes to Catherine House to leave her past behind. It's a dark past, with secrets and memories she'd rather forget. And that's good, because Catherine House is an institution that requires its students to give it three total years of their lives--leaving behind their families, television, music, and more. In return, they get a completely free education and the promise of a liberal arts background that has formed the minds of some very famous people: authors, inventors, presidents, and more. Ines comes to Catherine House with few expectations and for the most part, fits in, forming a strange friendship with her uptight and studious roommate, Baby, and the other students in her freshman year. But when tragedy befalls Baby, Ines begins to wonder about the House and its strange rituals, many of them tied to its most famous concentration of study, plasma. "That was the Catherine experience: give the house three years--three profound, total years--then become anything or anyone you want to be. Watch all your dreams come true." This book totally stressed me out. I usually love a good boarding school novel (though technically these students are in their college years), but this was mostly just a bunch of kids drinking and occasionally attending weird classes. Why are there never normal people at these schools who just do their work and don't drink? Anyway, besides that pet peeve, this book was incredibly slow and nothing ever happened. This was mostly a story about a lot of frivolous kids at school with some weird scientific plasma stuff thrown in. It was incredibly difficult to care about Ines for most of the book--or any of the other characters--and truly, most of the plot. I thought about abandoning the book, but wanted to see if anything interesting ever happened with the scientific aspect. (No, not really.) The book sells itself as a mysterious ride, but it's more a character-driven novel. About lackluster, annoying characters. Now the last third was fairly enjoyable and somehow an irritating book with eh characters had a satisfying ending, but getting there was just painful. Thomas is a good writer and this is no doubt one of those smart books where not much happens that book critics will worship, but it didn't really work for me. 2.5 stars. Thank you to LibraryThing and Custom House for my copy. This book is on sale 5/12/2020. Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Instagram ~ PaperBackSwap ~ Smashbomb
3177094908	Students at Catherine House are all special. They have to be special to give up everything the outside world has to offer to commit themselves to three full years at a selective school hidden in rural Pennsylvania. Catherine House offers its students completely free attendance to its experimental learning and research experience and a promise of success beyond its iron gates. A new first-year, Ines has come to Catherine as a last resort to escape her boisterous and chaotic life. Instead of strict discipline, she finds a place of higher learning dedicated to revelry and expanding the minds of its members. She finds friendship with her meek but determined roommate, Baby, but Ines doesn’t feel she is experiencing the same enchantment of Catherine as the other students are. When Baby’s time at the school ends in tragedy, Ines’ suspicion of Catherine House rises, and she attempts to understand the mysteries hidden with its gothic architecture and shabby charm. Catherine House is Elisabeth Thomas’ debut novel; Thomas is a Yale University alumnus who works as an archivist at the Museum of Modern Art. This story is a mix of mystery, thriller, drama, and science fiction. It is unexpected and exhilarating.
3420631871	It's odd how much I can love this book and be frustrated by it at the same time! I loved the atmosphere of this, very gothic. The world-building was creepy, eerie, and dark; There are clear and present school mysteries, mind games, and secrets behind locked doors. The main character - the perspective we read from - is very emotionally detached and disassociated often, which really added to the eerie atmosphere. But this book is definitely one that doesn't set out to answer the questions or resolve the mysteries it presents, which can be frustrating. But I also loved this because this story so beautifully (a dark beauty) showed the type of people who are lost in life, detached from others, and emotionally vulnerable, and the type of people or organizations (like cults) who take advantage of that.I definitely enjoyed and I recommend it, but it's a delicate balance with this book between enjoyment and frustration.
3258288905	Nothing really ever happens in this novel and I'm a little disappointed in the ending. I couldn't care about any of the characters and Ines wasn't a likable main character either. I did want to know more about the plasm and I feel like we never really got to learn the whole point behind that. This wasn't much of a thriller and I found myself a little bored. Thank you to the publisher and Netgalley for an advanced copy.PS this is my 90th book of the year!!
3414077847	3.5 stars. Very rare that I find myself loving and being frustrated by a book at the same time.
3783335190	I am being SO GENEROUS with those 2 stars. I have to collect my thoughts but I am so mad at myself for finishing this mess
3370029628	If you knew how Catherine House ended, you would never start it. The book is enough of a hodgepodge of blind alleys, ciphers of characters, and that deadly mix of hedonism and anhedonia granted only to the particularly privileged already, and then you hit the final sentence. You are in the house and the house is in the woods. But the book is thrown across the room.With its conclusion, Catherine House transforms from an unenjoyable novel to a loathsome exercise. This ending was better in 1985, but so was the whole book leading up to that functionally identical conclusion. Readers do not forget.Teenage runaway Ines Murillo de los finds herself at the prestigious college known as Catherine House, an all-expenses paid institution that has a reputation for high-profile graduates, but also the air of a cult. Catherine House follows Ines across three years of her education as she attempts to figure out why she never wants to leave her shabbily appointed luxury.The best thing about Catherine House is that it’s set in the back end of the nineties, so none of the characters have read Harry Potter and no one is desperate to compare their entire college experience to Hogwarts at every opportunity. The worst is everything else.Ines is the first problem: Elisabeth Thomas has written the narrative from the perspective of a character who doesn’t just have the usual problem of low self-esteem dogging her words: she literally does not care what happens to either herself or any of the people around her. Ines is a character who feels nothing; with no reaction to the novel’s scant drama from this protagonist, it is difficult for a reader to care on her behalf. The frustration with Ines’ passive nature is the novel’s true through-line, and even when we learn the nature of her entirely predictable “dark past” she still has neither texture nor flavour.It is impossible to say who Catherine House would appeal to, as there is nothing seductive to the reader about the institution — Thomas often goes out of the way to mention how dilapidated and ill-kempt it is, with frequent disgusting descriptions of the rich but tasteless food served there — and nor is there a pall of dread and horror over proceedings. The house has a confusing layout, but this is less Lovecraftian than poor architecture. Ines is a poor student, but this might be more because her curriculum is a mixture of literally made up disciplines and the sort of fare that reads as a parody of the out of touch nature of academia than her actual intellectual ability.Catherine House operates on an insultingly high level of assumed knowledge for a theorem that doesn’t exist; for a story that hinges on a substance called “plasm”, you will exit the novel with only a slightly less vague understanding of a concept you had previously never heard of. Thomas doesn’t believe in exposition, but equally has no interest in contextual clues: a deadly combination. Thomas can’t build an air of intrigue around the smothering environment she has constructed, and her characters aren’t even smart enough to drink the copious amount of wine that the House provides out of glasses: there are so many abused tea cups on these pages it’s distressing.Any good will – and there is precious little – is undone by the practically plagiarised ending. The staff of batrock.net (i.e. the writer of this piece) does not wish to be sued, but Catherine House has a final sequence that feels lifted from a classic (view spoiler)[1985 (hide spoiler)] dystopia (view spoiler)[that has had a resurgence and a sequel in recent years (hide spoiler)], with none of the nuance or finesse entered into there. The specific title will not be mentioned here(view spoiler)[; it’s a Tale for another time (hide spoiler)].This ending — and it is one that does pop up from time to time in pretenders to the crown — is not an automatic disqualifier of everything that came before it. But in a book as borderline as Catherine House, it’s enough to send it plummeting to the bottom of the rankings. Regardless of whether the publishers, editors, and everyone else involved in the delivery of Catherine House to your store, door, or e-reader — in the middle of a global pandemic, no less — thought that they had a winning product here, there is no way that this iconic 35 year old ending should have been reproduced in 2020.Catherine House is a cipher novel, populated by cardboard cutouts of characters, a truly nonsensical curriculum, and an impenetrable confidence that it all makes sense. There is no intrigue to grab onto here, no silver lining to the copious clouds that Thomas feeds the reader. It’s a strangely easy read, but because there’s nothing to engage with between these pages, you’re shot straight through Catherine House’s digestive tract, plopped out the other end dirty and disgruntled.
3582990238	“Dead people don’t have to do homework.” This was so weird and I can absolutely see why people see it as plotless but I still loved it. For me what made it into a 4 star was that ending it was just beautiful to me and was such a seamless way to end it.Ines definitely grew on me as I read on and I think she is extremely raw but extremely real. Although some say this book lacked plot, I actually think most people’s 3 years of uni doesn’t necessarily have a “plot” as such. Rather it is just an accumulation of isolated memories with friends or alone. I think it captured the good days, the bad days and the empty days so accurately whilst having this cult/ sci-fi aspect weaved in there. I think with this one you need to throw out any preconceived ideas and standards you may have and just enjoy the ride. Similar vibes: Bunny 🐰
4934567644	Wow! so I didn’t like the ending 🙁 but the rest of the book was amazing and intense. It made one really think about existence, education, and just the overall fact like ‘what are you doing with your life right now?’Besides the self reflection questions this story had a lot of spooky, funny, confusing and cult vibes. But it was worth the trip.The story takes place in what seems to be a college of some sorts but only concentrating on a specific area of expertise of each student chosen to attend. This is a very unique and prestigious school— which graduates many famous world leaders (sort of like a secret society but in school form?) Anyways it follows the journey of Ines and her dedicated 3 years at this creepy yet very interesting school. While self reflecting about her own previous life and isolated from the world (due to school rules) she must face and pray the deep dark secrets lurking through the halls of Catherine House don’t consume her sanity.
3224718732	4.5 STARSFull review here: https://youtu.be/EcLbuG5Y4MsTimestamps in the description for quick navigation
5202786541	sometimes you will read a book with a 3 star average rating and it will be the best book you have ever read proving that your taste is superior to everyone else's on this websitetoday is not that dayi did *like* this book. i think it's well written and atmospheric and i enjoyed the mystery of it all very much. i just feel like i know/understand as much about the mystery now that i have finished it as i did when i started it which just isn't very satisfying.it's also not very memorable imo and just proves my point of "you know one dark academia book, you know all of them"read as part of 202-Queer 🌈✨april reading: 15/26
6047955623	I know there are a lot of people dnf’ing this book. I stayed with it and I’m glad I did. A very interesting read and I enjoyed it.
3453384088	“I’m scared that out there, someday I’ll look around and realize forty years have passed and no one can see me. That I’m gone.” This review is going to be on the much shorter side because the only way to sum up Catherine House is that it truly is an experience. This most definitely not going to be a book for everyone, however, the synopsis completely had me hooked so I had to at least give it a shot and despite my two star rating I’m still glad that I did give this a try.Catherine House is a weird and unique story about a girl named Ines who gets accepted into an elite school of higher learning. For three years you have to devote your life to Catherine House – no TV, family, friends, communication with the outside world, or talk of your life prior to coming to the school- in return you can become whoever you want to be in society once your three years are up. But you have to actually survive Catherine House or avoid getting kicked out which Ines and her friends quickly learn is much harder than they originally imagined. I think the three biggest things that didn’t work for me in this story were Ines – I liked the side characters much better, what the actual secret to Catherine House was, and how the story ended. But that’s so much of a personal preference and this is 100% the type of book that if the synopsis sounds interesting to you, you need to experience it for yourself. Just trust me on it.Please don’t let my two star rating negate how phenomenal the writing in this book was. Even though I didn’t like Ines or the “mystery” element to the story the writing was the one thing that could not get me to put this book down. Like, you couldn’t have paid me any amount of money to DNF this book because I needed to see how it ended. Catherine House sucks you in and sucks you down as Ines slowly but surely gets to the bottom of what’s really going on in the school. The sense of something ominous and sinister that Thomas creates is something you can legitimately feel as you’re reading, almost as if the school is sucking the life out of you too. Even though I didn’t really vibe with the overall story I will still pick up anything the author writes in the future because this woman can WRITE.All in all, if you’re looking for a book to get lost in Catherine House absolutely delivers on that. Whether or not the story and the characters will work for you is something I would love to know if you decide to pick this up!Blog | Twitter
3356830714	What a whirlwind! Thank you to Harper Collins and Goodreads for sending me an ARC!A few chapters into Catherine House, I was pretty convinced I was going to hate it. You get thrown right into the mix of the wispy, dreamy POV of Ines- a girl with a mysterious past who is accepted into an equally mysterious university. The University graduates go on to become world leaders and wealthy socialites. They would tell you Catherine House is a blessing. The media on the other hand, prints headlines about it being a dangerous cult, rife with abuse and mystery. Ines, much like many who attend Catherine House, has very little home to go back to, thus begins to abide by Catherine House's strict rules. Abandon your old life. Music, photos, and calls to home are not allowed. Leaving is not allowed in your 3 year tenure. Strangest of all, not-so-secret studies of a mysterious substance known as Plasm are conducted both from, and on the students....but Catherine House is seductive, and easy to get swept up in. It's hard to fully classify this book in a genre, but I would almost say it's a gothic mystery with Frankenstein style scifi elements- thats to say, the "scifi" aspect is a teeny tiny backdrop/plot thread connecting what is ultimately an overarching story of human seduction and isolation.I also wanted to point out that boarding school/gothic novels are very often very "white". This book is written by an author of color, and almost all of the characters of meaning are black or other people of color, so that was something incredibly refreshing. Though I struggle at first, I ultimately found myself being swept up in this debut much like the apprehensive teens that attend Catherine House, and I couldn't put it down. Everything about this story is toned town and muted, from the characters to the writing style and mystery, so don't expect any dramatic plot shifts. You will be moving along at a slow, grim pace as you watch Ines's time at the house evolve. The problem with every "The Secret History" boarding school style drama is that they are always written in a vague and dreamy way that emulates Donna Tartt's style as much as possible. This can really remove you from the emotional impact of the story and the character's actions more often than not. I do feel that that problem does exist in Catherine House, but the book itself manages to stand on it's own as an addictive piece of literature that I couldn't put down.
3181393521	This was kind of weird but in a good way? I liked it. It’s pretty slow and if I think back on what actually happened it seems like not that much, which wouldn’t usually work for me - I don’t often like slow books and get bored very easily - but this one just worked. It’s atmospheric, interesting and well written. I can admit the characters, including the main character Ines, weren’t super well developed but I did like them anyway. There was also a sort of overarching vagueness to it all, but I think this was deliberate to add to the atmosphere.
3168630110	What a phenomenal debut! I really loved the voice— spare and poignant, sharp and ruthless. I loved discovering the mystery of Catherine House, learning the secrets behind all those silk wallpapered walls. Will absolutely recommend to everyone!
4939225819	im SO confused but like the same way as i was after reading Bunny, so in a good way, but i couldnt tell you why i liked this other than the fact that it's definitely my type of book with the dark academia/cult vibes
3592939574	"I've spent my whole life reading beautiful books and watching beautiful movies, dreaming that there was some real place out there where I would fit in and be beautiful, too."
3461731167	**4.5**💜💗Reading Vlog / Review : https://youtu.be/iVZWDylkktsOh lord lord lord. This took me on a whole ass RIDE. It is a trip in every way. Did I hate it? Did I love it? Did it take too long to find a plot? Was all the exposition worth the pay off? Was it too confusing? Too weird? Too abstract? YES.But it was also perfect.I cannot believe this was a debut novel. Elisabeth Thomas really did THAT. Can't wait to see what comes from her in the future.The diversity of ethnicity and sexuality was done so deftly and covered every page and character. Stunning.💜💗Favorite Quote: "I wanted to be closer. I wanted us to hit each other. I wanted it to hurt....There were moments when I felt like Theo knew me exactly. Like he could read my brain, with all its dark ideas and affections, and still liked me. As if we were two faces of the same villain. It felt stunning."
4346782488	I found this book intriguing with its uniqueness and the gothic mystery to it. A setting set in a private school were all are confined to this house were there is no idea of the happenings of the outside world. I kept on reading because I wanted to know what was the big secret of this house. That sad thing is that nothing really happened. The mystery of it all was not all that exciting and I just felt like the author could have done so much more with this story. I did like her writing. Overall C+
3780873879	2.5an almost dnf, that turned out better than I expected at the end. My sister forced me to continue because it was our book club book, and I ended up with a higher rating than she did.Catherine House is a weird book. Not weird in a mind-blowing sense or an OMG WTF just happened? Weird in an “uh why?’ kind of way.Catherine House is a dark academia (?) that follows Ines who is running away from some mysterious dark past (which we really never get to learn about), to a special college for special kids. Nobody knows what it takes to get into Catherine, but everyone knows that when you graduate from Catherine, you’ll be in the upper elite, you’ll have prestigious government jobs, or fame, or connections in a lot of places. Catherine graduates are successful. Catherine is the ticket to a bright future.But the house has its secrets, and the secrets are in the house or something like that. I wanted to like this book, but 50 pages in, I knew it wasn’t going to go well. The primary reason for that is the writing. I think that Elizabeth Thomas has talent. I think that she knows how to write, and I can’t help feeling like she had her reasons, that the way she wrote this story was deliberate, but it really did not work for me. Sentences were abrupt. Things would happen that seemed totally random. There were bizarre transitions between sentences.What time was it? Were they going to feed me? I masturbated indifferently. It took a long time. Then I closed my eyes and curled up tight. My throat pulsed against my handandThose winter nights I slept in Yaya’s bed. Her neck and shoulders were warm beneath my hand, and the rosy smell of her hair cream made me feel drowsy and calm. We shared scary stories, gossiped and farted on each other.In a way, I can see that the writing was told from a dreamlike perspective, and was probably supposed to contribute to this mysterious, atmospheric dread, but instead, I found myself not caring, and stumbling over fragments of random dialogue and moments that seemed totally irrelevant.Along those lines, I had trouble figuring out what the school’s thing was. Students work hard. School is a priority, and yet everyone is just constantly absurdly drunk, naked, and messy. I didn’t really get the point.Speaking of not getting the point, a lot of people will argue (the sister included) that this book was absolutely pointless. That’s partly true. There wasn’t a plot. Or there wasn’t until the very end. Which is why I almost dnf’d. I was bored. Nothing was gripping me. We get told a lot of stuff about this thing called plasm, but we are never told what it is. I couldn’t tell if it was just going over my head. I get the vague idea, but there wasn’t any explanation of anything that was going on, what plasm is, how it works, why people study it, just that it’s the school’s pride and joy, and there are secrets. I guess that’s also part of the point. But we also get told a lot about a lot of stuff that we also don’t learn about. What’s the school’s motive, how did they choose who they chose? What creates the devotion that plasm students have towards plasm? I DON’T KNOW BECAUSE I DON’T KNOW WHAT PLASM ISThis feels like something I’d read in class. Something that needs to be analyzed. The ending leaves an opening for one to imagine and wonder where the characters go, how things all work out in the end. Most people won’t care at the end. But I did, which is why it gets a 2.5. And the reason is that amidst all the incomprehensible nonsense, there was something here that reminded me of my reaction to graduating college (hopefully without as many psychological issues, but you’d have to ask my friends about that)"But I don’t want to graduate." He rolled a banana against the table with his palm. “I’ve spent my whole life reading beautiful books and watching beautiful movies, dreaming that there was someplace out there where I would fit in and be beautiful too. And now I’m here. And I don’t want to leave. I don’t want to get an ugly job in an ugly office full of shit like staplers and fax machines. I don’t want to write memos. I don’t want us all to move far away from each other and grow up and forget to call. I don’t want to get fat. I don’t want to be tired. I don’t know. I just… sometimes, I can’t imagine anything good happening to me. After Catherine." And through it all I felt like I was right on the edge of discovering what this novel was finally about. I was so close to putting something together, but ultimately, all I could get was the notion that everyone is broken, higher institutions are flawed, and what happens when those in power are able to manipulate those who just want to be taken in and belong somewhere. Again, I felt like everything was intentional, but I wasn’t smart enough to understand. If it was there, it went totally over my head.
3370014341	Truly dire. This pseudo sci-fi/dark academia novel reads as though it was generated by a computer programme, as opposed to written by a human. If I had asked Alexa to write a novel, she would have read Catherine House to me. A random collection of words punctuated with plasm (what?), overripe fruit and hedonistic teenagers. All of it comes together in what is a hypnotically boring story. Everything about the book is flat as a pancake - the characters, the plot (if I can call it that), the setting, the dialogue, the prose. What is with the weird references to food (mainly dessert 🤷🏼‍♀️) all the time, even at the most inappropriate moments? Was it an attempt at being sensuous, or just padding out the novel to meet a minimum word count? I have no idea. I could pick so many holes in this book but really it’s just one big crater. Even mentioning it in the same breath as Never Let Me Go is positively sacrilegious. Easily the worst book I’ve read this year. Avoid.
3368834982	Find my review of Catherine House on my blog!I'm going to be honest with you, I think I could write an entire research paper about this novel because it is so good with a lot of themes and complex in a way that will make you think. I'm extremely impressed in this debut author and her work. Her writing is eloquent, descriptive, and deceptively literary. Without being confusing or mundane, Elisabeth Thomas creates a utopian world based on transcendentalist philosophy, art, and a little bit of darkness. This is going to be a tough review to write because I don't want to give the plot away. I feel like this entire book is a spoiler, so read it!Catherine House felt like an elaborate dream; a university that pays for your food, clothes, and comforts. You get a first rate education for free. The people who graduated from this school are court justices and leaders and business folks with tons of success and money. The only thing you must do is commit to three years (including summers) detached from the outside world. It kind of surprised me how many young people agreed to be removed from society for three years and I mean, no TV, no Internet, no news. No calls to your family. No visits. No leaving. Nothing. There was a few laments throughout the novel about how they wished they could get drunk off campus or go to the local bar and how they could have things that other college students would normally get. But then there were a lot of talks regarding how much Catherine House is needed.Ines is your MC and from the start, you're immersed in her little world. She's skeptic about this experience; she wasn't interested in getting a degree. She let her grades slip, she just did whatever she wanted, she drank and hung out with friends and really didn't buy into this world. But as the story progresses, you see a change in Ines. She starts to care a little more. She picks a degree. She makes friends. She even has a few lovers. She actually studies! If you hate books that take place at a school and they never go to class, then you'll love this book because they're always studying, always taking tests, and always going to class. It's actually a little bit of a drag during the middle when the focus was just going to class, studying, and passing certain courses. But I love the sense of camaraderie her friends have together. They're all studying different things especially Catherine House's very exclusive new materials study, but they find time to hang out and work together towards successfully completing the course.But as she continues her three years at Catherine House, things start to go even further down the rabbit hole.I thought this book would be more suspenseful or thriller-y especially with the synopsis reading similar to stories like Wilder Girls or even Ninth House. However, I was pleasantly surprised by how this book reads. I was expecting thriller, but got literary fiction and to be honest, I'm not mad about that. It's quite gothic with its sense of dreaminess and insanity, but also extremely cerebral and will make you think at the end.While I know people are upset with the lack of action in this book, I feel like Elisabeth Thomas did an excellent job creating a world that feels so normal, but has something sinister bubbling below the surface. There was a subconscious plot happening here beyond the scope of going to school. Catherine House in itself was a character and many of the students referred to the school as "Catherine." Catherine will protect us. Catherine has everything you need. Catherine wants us to succeed.I think my main motivation to finish the book is to find more answers. While they're not written out for you, I think that in many ways, this book is super metaphorical, philosophical, and artistically created. It's an artist's expression; like looking at a piece of artwork and finding meaning. It would make sense with Elisabeth Thomas's background in art history, but I love how cleverly it's incorporated into the story.I couldn't help but think about one particular theme that kept coming up regarding the origins of the school and the plasm. Please bear with me because it's obviously my over-thinking brain talking at this point. I kept on thinking about how this school was created by transcendentalist philosophers. Back in the day when Puritans were opening the Ivy Leagues and only letting white kids in, Catherine House was built on a different set of rules. They let all kids from different backgrounds into the school. I thought this was an interesting point and maybe thought it was a way to incorporate more characters of color, but transcendentalist philosophy was incorporated into many different aspects of the school and the plot.The belief that through individualism, through unobstructed personal experience and self-reliance, you're able to discover and become a better person. This is straight out of the transcendentalist handbook. You don't have a past. You don't have things getting in the way of the work you're doing yourself. It sounds very much the philosophy of Catherine House. Catherine is your home. Catherine is your safe space to discover yourself without the constraints of society. Catherine keeps you learning while the rest of the world tries to lock you down.And as you see the plasm and new materials studies start to become a bigger part of the conversation, so does some bigger transcendentalist themes. Specifically, the belief that we are all somehow interconnected with one another through some force beyond our scope of reality. I would suggest googling "The Over-Soul" which describes how our persons is related to the bigger scope of things; between people, plants and animals, the universe, and between God. I think of that quote from the 1995 Little Women movie where Jo says with transcendentalism there's always an emphasis of perfecting oneself. I was thinking a lot about that quote towards the end of the book.And I can only imagine that many folks were not fans of the ending. I'm not a big fan of endings that have no conclusion, but this particular one didn't bother me. I think regardless of what happened to her after the truck door opened, it was the end. It was the end of the dream. It was the end of another chapter of Ines's life. It was the end of Catherine House as she knew it. It's abrupt and jarring like any time you wake up from something pleasant and see the brash light of day.Overall, this was a stunner of a novel for me. I absolutely loved the atmospheric writing, the eloquence of Elisabeth Thomas's words, and the complexity of this world she created. It's super literary and with the tiny drops of fantasy and suspense, it'll definitely get you thinking about life, death, our existence, and the universe.
3330560582	Catherine House is Thomas's chilling literary thriller debut and one of the most intense and claustrophobic stories I have encountered in all my years of reading. This deliciously disturbing gothic novel follows Ines who attends prestigious Catherine House boarding school in Pennsylvania where pupils are forbidden from all outside communication for the duration of their three years there and are unable to leave. And just like anything enigmatic, if people don't know the details they tend to make them up themselves and so the rumour mill regarding the school keeps turning rapidly. Pupils are promised a highly successful life if they stick to the rules and graduate when the time comes. It has produced some of the brightest minds in science, politics and business as well as many other fields. Running from her past, Ines gains a place at Catherine House and feels the isolation will help her forget the trauma she suffered years prior. There is no fee for entry so how exactly is the school benefiting from teaching pupils? Ines is determined to find out the sinister secrets hidden from view and bring them to the light but what must she sacrifice in order to do so?This is an original, intriguing and atmospheric read and although it begins in quite a slow and steady manner I was pleased I allowed it time to develop. I feel strongly that this should be targeted and marketed towards the young adult genre as it has distinctive The Hunger Games vibes about it. In respect of the cast of characters, the most prominent is the school itself followed by protagonist, Ines. It explores the complexities of human nature, philosophical ideas and the age-old battle between good and evil, amongst others. Compelling, multidimensional and sizzling with a sense of foreboding from start to finish, this is an entertaining way to spend a few hours, however I feel it is a polarising novel you'll either love or hate. Those who require a likeable protagonist will likely not warm to this, but I felt Ines being a strange and rather unlikeable character added to the oppressive atmosphere impressively. One of the most appropriate ways to describe this tale is ambiguous and many aspects are left open-ended. Recommended. Many thanks to Tinder Press for an ARC.
3050180949	Whenever I read a book with a suspiciously low Goodreads rating I'm always all the more determined to love it - there's something kind of fun about being in the minority in really 'getting' a book that goes over so many heads. Sadly not the case here. While I didn't find this objectively terrible in any way, neither did I find it particularly special or pleasurable to read.Following 18-year-old Ines who goes off to an experimental college, Catherine House subverts a lot of campus novel tropes. Ines isn't characterized by a passion for academia or a thirst for belonging or a love for her school - she's socially and academically dispassionate to a fault. Along with Ines's lack of drive is a particularly conspicuous lack of atmosphere, and I think the Kazuo Ishiguro and Sarah Waters comparisons do this book a disservice if you go into it expecting a lush, indulgent, immersive setting.While I did feel that Thomas did a great job of building suspense, to the point where I read this book in two sittings because there was something rather hypnotic about it, I also didn't particularly care about what I was reading. There's a mystery at the heart of the school's scientific research department, and I'm not sure whether the twist fell flat or whether I just was never invested enough to be moved by it.Again, I don't think this was bad or even unsuccessful in what it set out to do, and I can see it working perfectly for a certain type of reader. Sadly it just wasn't quite what I was looking for.Thank you to Netgalley and Custom House for the advanced copy provided in exchange for an honest review.
3589969727	This book was completely mismarketed by the publisher. It’s neither Gothic nor dark academia, though it’s closer to the latter. It’s basically what would happen if the main character of MY YEAR OF REST AND RELAXATION by Ottessa Moshfegh had to attend a private college for three years in isolation. Very literary, very dreamy, not plot driven, and while the setting serves to create a woozy synesthesia, it doesn’t follow any hallmarks of genre fiction as the pitch suggests. Still, it’s insightful and clever and deeply sad in some ways. A young woman struggling with autonomy chooses it in the end, but barely. So if you’re looking for a weird book with an unusual protagonist and won’t be put off by the capricious, winding nature of the story, this is the one."There were moments when I felt like Theo knew me exactly. Like he could read my brain, with all its dark ideas and affections, and still liked me. As if we were two faces of the same villain. It felt stunning."
3993128100	I lasted until the 65% point and just could not see myself going forward anymore. It is a slow and strange read with self-centered characters that scream entitlement. The only character that I liked ended up dead.And the chanting...OMG what is with that? Cult culture?Won't say anything more.I received a physical copy of the book from the Goodreads Giveaways. The comments herein are completely my own and contains my honest thoughts and opinions.
3284932118	4.5 starsSeductive is the right word for this alright. This is a novel that manages to be just as alluring, atmospheric, and mysterious as it's titular house. Dark academia done right.
5361012010	This book reminds me a little bit of Vita Nostra, except much more to my taste.
3225381971	"I looked beautiful. Like a rotting fruit." This book felt like a fever dream. Until right now I've never finished a book and immediately wanted to read it again. This book is dark, weird and definitely not for everyone. Catherine House is a slow-paced gothic novel that is extremely dark, atmospheric and unsettling. The students who attend Catherine stay there for 3 years completely isolated from the outside world. This is not a fast-paced thriller but instead a slow dark descent into the Catherine house..."You are in the house and the house is in the woods. You are in the house and the house is in you". The writing in this book is so beautiful, immersive and sometimes disjointed. As you get dragged farther into the isolated world of Catherine things only get weirder. Once you reach year three it feels like as a reader you're stumbling drunk through a gothic mystery, like I said this book felt like a fever dream. The character's in this book weren't particularly likable, which was fine with me. This book leaves the reader with unanswered questions, and there are parts to this story that I don't completely understand. I mentioned previously that I want to re-read this book when it gets published. That's not just because I enjoyed the story, but also because the author gives us these small bits of information throughout the entirety of the book. I feel like reading it for a second time I'll get even more out of it, and maybe make more connections that I didn't make the first time. Like I said this book is not for everyone, there are points where you may feel confused. The best thing to do is to embrace the confusion and just keep going with the story. Overall I really enjoyed this debut, if you want to be slowly sucked into a weird nightmare then this book is for you. Also, bonus points to Catherine House for featuring a very diverse cast of characters and having LGBTQ rep :)"Here at Catherine, we know not to fear death. Because even in death there is life. Death is not the black night, but its white moon. The honeyed egg of rebirth."Thank you Netgalley for providing me with an arc of this book!
3335308079	Originally published on The Nerd Daily | Review by Beth MowbrayIf you are naturally drawn to the traditional gothic-style novel, or the trope of a mysterious private university hiding a dark secret or two, then Elisabeth Thomas’s debut Catherine House is a book you won’t want to miss! Compared to the likes of Rebecca and The Secret History, but with a decidedly more modern feel, this novel follows Ines Murillo and her cohorts as they navigate the intoxicating world of a prestigious yet secretive university. The public knows Catherine House as an experimental, liberal arts institution which offers its studies free-of-charge to those deemed worthy enough of entry; yet the school also has a dark underbelly, including progressive experimentation that was reportedly shut down years ago. Despite being renowned for churning out some of the most well-known minds in recent history, as the story unfolds it becomes clear that there is more to Catherine House than meets the eye. This shabby, yet charming university is hidden away in the woods for a reason and page by page the layers are slowly peeled back to reveal what lies beneath the house’s crumbling facade.Read the FULL REVIEW on The Nerd Daily
3155894380	Such a good f*cking book! Wait, can I say that? I just said that. :)
3109257923	Very, very slow—with little to no action (in my opinion). The story building and gothic vibes were very immersive.
3400357367	We read Catherine House for the July Ladies of Horror Fiction Readalong you can join the discussion here if you’d like: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...I’m not going to get into a discussion about what is or isn’t horror and expectations and all that. I’m going to review this book as I experienced it. I like all kinds of things from the most extreme horror novel to the sweetest cupcake of a romance and my most favorite novels are those that grab me with a unique surprising plot and/or characters who keep me reading despite my distracted mess of a brain. I liked some of this book and I am giving it a three after a bit of thought. The book is broken up into years. Year One was my absolute favorite. It set up the intrigue, secrets, described the grounds, the creepy interior of Catherine House, and introduced us to Ines and gave us a bit of insight into why Ines is so lackadaisical about everything. She’s the type who sort of floats through life without caring too much about anything or anyone but she has reasons for her behavior. Unfortunately, her attitude about life didn’t make her a compelling heroine for me after a while.Book One was definitely my favorite part of the story. I was intrigued, I wanted to discover all the secrets and I wanted them to be AWFUL. But then Year Two occurred and I found myself a little tired of all of the talk of parties and bed-hopping and drinking and snack eating because none of it was interesting to me. I have nothing against any of those things if they enhance and add interest to the story but that wasn’t the case for me here. Talk of them just filled up too much space and I found myself desperate for more character connection and for more of the interesting secrets hiding within the house.The final section of the book picked up but the ending didn’t thrill me after all of the build-up I was hoping for something a little more . . . I don’t know, shocking and less lifeless, I suppose. But it was indeed in character so it made sense.I listened to this as an unabridged audiobook that I purchased from Audible. If you enjoy audios and are curious about this book I highly recommend doing it that way. I’m honestly not sure if I would’ve felt compelled to keep going after Year Two but the narration was done so well that it wasn’t a chore for me to keep listening. The voices are unique and fit the characters well.This one is so hard for me to rate. The story itself is a two and a half for me but the narration was excellent so I’m going to compromise and give it a three.
4811641175	Premetto che anch'io da qualche tempo mi sono appassionata all'aesthetic che va sotto il nome di #darkacademia, quel genere culturale che ricompre libri, film, arredamento e moda ispirati ad atmosfere cupe e talora gotiche, studi classici e ambienti d'istruzione elitaria, amore per l'arte e la bellezza, con a volte risvolti misteriosi e inquietanti. Perché talvolta le élite trascendono nella presunzione di superiorità e spesso i loro membri prendono una brutta china.Se in questo genere possiamo inserire bestseller come Dio di Illusioni o La nona casa, ero molto curiosa di leggere questo Catherine House, presentato con un'abile campagna mediatica come una sorta di erede dei romanzi di Donna Tartt, con una visuale del nuovo millennio.Purtroppo la mia lettura non è stata così soddisfacente.Anzi, proprio perché non voglio girarci intorno e indorare pillole amare, dirò che si è rivelato un libro semplicemente brutto, che riprende una trama vista e stravista, e lo fa con uno stile noiosissimo.Noia è, in effetti, l'emozione che mi ha accompagnato per tutte le 330 pagine del volume, sempre con la magra speranza che la storia iniziasse a decollare, ci fosse un cambio di registro e saltasse fuori un motivo per farmi appassionare.La protagonista, già di per sé, non aiuta.Ines, alcolizzata depressa antipatica, viene irretita per entrare in un college esclusivo con palesi contorni da pseudosetta, e lei per prima si interroga sul motivo per cui è stata selezionata. Forse perché sei una persona sola, in fuga, mentalmente instabile, facilmente manipolabile e nessuno ti cercherà?In questa dimora elitaria, Ines si trascina per annate intere, senza mai uscire, dormendo o giacendo, studiando con poco profitto, senza mai sviluppare un vero sogno personale.Nulla pare scalfire la patina di apatia che la circonda e, quando finalmente si nota una breve scintilla, è probabilmente troppo tardi.Sono sconvolta io per prima d’essere arrivata sino in fondo al finalone … La realtà è che non ho compreso il messaggio del libro, non ho compreso perché tramortire il lettore con capitali soporiferi spesso pieni di eventi privi di rilievo ai fini narrativi, perché usare uno stile criptico che risulta solo piatto e confuso.Ci ho anche ragionato a freddo, ma è difficile riuscire a salvare qualcosa.
5416146254	Students are cut off from the outside world during their three-year courses and must take part in all types of strange rituals. Ines is far from devoted to her studies, but she also has good reason to want to remain hidden away from the world. But when she starts trying to find out more about the schools sinister "new materials" research program, Ines finds herself in even more trouble than would have been if she had been in the outside world. It was an interesting concept. At first, I thought the story was just a bit slow starting...then I realized that it was quickly heading for a full stop. The premise had the potential to be really exciting, but for me, it never delivered on that. The solutions to the mysteries were not well or even completely explained. Maybe I never really understood what the school's personnel were attempting to achieve or what they wished to gain with this strange program. There's no clear motive to suggest a conspiracy and the further along it went the less believable it became. The big reveals at the end didn't help at all. I think I am primarily frustrated by what the book could have been...but wasn't. This was a first novel by this author so perhaps that may also have been part of it.
3326054050	** spoiler alert ** What an anti-climactic, fever dream, acid trip of a book. I didn’t even get to the end, I had someone tell me how it ended and I can say I’m happy I stopped reading. No plot, unlikable characters that made me so frustrated, and extra side stories that didn’t add anything to the book. the main character isn’t rebellious, she’s just lazy as fuck. I can’t speak to any of the book past page 134, but in those 134 pages, she was fine just coasting. After Baby “died” I was expecting her to at least try and find out what actually happened but she just accepted it and moved on. I was really looking forward to this because it sounded so eery and creepy and it was such a let-down. EDIT: I’ve been thinking a lot about this book since posting my review and I just want to change my comment about Ines. She still isn’t rebellious, she needs help. She went through something really traumatic (would have been nice if they talked about it more) and everyone’s is ignoring her problems (that doctor at the beginning? Ugh). She doesn’t need Catherine House, she needs some help. Actual help. Not the weird experiments they’re doing there.If you’re looking for a gothic thriller I’d recommend The Broken Girls by Simone St. James and I’ve also heard people recommending Good Girls Lie by JT Ellison.
3569777645	Catherine House is creepy, atmospheric, and entrancing. “You are in the house and the house in the woods. The woods are in the house. The stairs are in the house. Down the stairs is the hallway, and at the end of the hallway is the ballroom. You are in the ballroom. The ballroom is in the house. You are in the house and the house is in you.The house is in the woods. You are in the woods."I liked Ines' point of view and how we only got to see what she cared enough to notice. I didn't mind the lack of plot, and I felt that the dreaminess worked well with the story. I actually wish the book was even more confusing and complex than it was. I also felt that the ending was rather abrupt and wish it was drawn out more.I'm really waffling between a 3 and 4 star rating for this book (I really wish Goodreads did half stars), but I'll probably have to think over it a bit longer. 3.65 stars
4047251108	The reviews are all over the place for this one, but I enjoyed it. It's kind of like a discombobulated, drunken fever dream with a gothic filter over the view lens.
3595045750	2.5/5 StarsWell, I was not expecting what happened in this book. I was initially drawn to this title because it gave me big dark academia vibes, but in my head I was expecting something in the lines of a classic murder mystery, don't ask me why. Anyway, this book wasn't that, but it still has dark academia vibes, if that is what you're looking for.This novel offers the readers something very dark, the deep devotion to an institution/university that welcomes people who have nothing and nobody to lose in the outside world, from which they are all completely cut off for the whole duration of their degree. Basically nothing from the outside is allowed. Catherine House is all the students have and that's what leads them to form this deep connection to the place that's hosting them.The story moved slowly for my taste, especially in the first half of the book. The second half is where things happened for real and I was so not expecting that. It was definitely surprising, but I believe the author could have given us even more than that, to me it felt like we only got to see the surface of something that could have been so much bigger.I don't want to say too much because I don't want to spoil anyone, but this is definitely a different dark academia read.
3399432597	2.5 starsI don't know how to feel about this novel. It's one heck of a WEIRD read. The writing is really well done but the plot is extremely odd. Even with the conclusion and how things were tied up, I don't know how to feel about it. I think the mystery, suspense, and intrigue were what kept me reading and the ending didn't fulfill what I was hoping for...whatever that was. This book will definitely be a divided one for readers. It'll either be loved or hated.
3377766269	well this was weird
3589516927	Catherine House by Elisabeth Thomas is a very strange debut, but it is also very atmospheric and gothic which I loved. The writing is incredibly unique as well as the book itself, and it is definitely something you need to experience for yourself. I listened to the audiobook, and Inés del Castillo was a really good narrator for Ines, and I thought she matched well to what I would image Ines would sound like. And how random that they have the same name too! She did a great job with the book, and the parts with the chant were made extra creepy by her saying them.It is incredibly hard to describe Catherine House and it's not going to be for everyone, in fact, I think a very small population of readers will actually enjoy it just because of how odd it is. The school was a character in itself which I loved, but the human characters were rather elusive, and I didn't feel like I really got to know any of them, even Ines although all we get is her perspective. We get bits of her past mixed in with her time at Catherine House, and I would have loved to have even more of her previous life mixed in. I really had no idea where the book was going, so I just had to sit back and enjoy the ride. I'm really glad I did the audio, and I would recommend going that route if you can. Catherine House was an interesting debut and I would recommend it to anyone who thinks it sounds good to them. Meanwhile, I will be keeping an eye out for Thomas's next book and am interested to see what she writes next!Thank you to the publisher for providing me with an advance review copy of this book, all opinions and thoughts are my own.
3036284230	Trying to get caught up on all of my back titles. This one was just a miss for me. I love a good psychological suspense/mystery, but yet again, this one has weird supernatural/paranormal-ish elements that are not my cup of tea at all. I give the book props for being a creepy gothic school tale, which I do like. This one is a very slow burn, with a long slow lead up to actually going anywhere. And while I don't like paranormal elements, I saw this one coming from a mile away so it wasn't very suspenseful. It's overall kind of ambiguous in the end which I also didn't like.So one extra star for the setting and decent writing, but the plot just didn't do it for me.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book. All opinions are my own.
