26464019	This has got to be one of the most disappointing books I've read in a long time. Although the descriptions of the various eastern European cities are often pretty and atmospheric, my frustration with this book won't let me mark it above one star.It starts out well; very interesting and suspenseful for about the first 100 pages or so. But as you read it, the book just gets more and more ridiculous. It's about 600 900(!) pages long (which is way, way too long) and I urge anyone reading this book to just put it down or read one of the one-star spoiler reviews on Amazon and be done with it. Or better yet, ignore the book entirely.What bothered me most? I'll try to make a list of my top issues:-- Coincidences. *Everything* in this book happens by some remarkable coincidences. One here or there would be fine, even interesting, but it's as if the author decided 'here's how the plot should go', and couldn't be bothered to come up with realistic reasons for characters to do things and just wanted to move them from one point to another. One of the characters even ends up with amnesia. Amnesia! Like from a bad soap opera! I mean, are you kidding? So stuff just happens. For no reason. Which leads me to...-- Stuff just happens. For no reason. Such as characters getting together romantically, well, just because. No build up, no logic, they just do because I guess they're both there and they have nothing better to do. Which leads me to...-- The characters themselves. Completely non-existent. One reviewer on amazon said that if you take any random section of dialogue from the book, it is impossible to tell which character it came from. So true! The author is completely incapable of creating realistic, breathing characters that are different from each other. Instead they all talk the same, they all have the same reactions, the same motives, hook up randomly in the same way, etc. There is *nothing* believable about these people. And for some reason, they all write unbelievably detailed letters. Which leads me to...-- Unbelievably detailed letters! Now I have read a number of great books that use the format of letter writing to convey the plot. But this? Ridiculous. Not only are these letters insanely long, but they are insanely detailed as well, creating yet another reason why the book and the characters are completely unbelievable. If that's how the author wanted to write this, why did she do the letter thing at all? Which brings me to my final big gripe (I've leaving the small ones out)...-- The ending. OMG if you value your sanity, do not, I repeat DO NOT finish this book. Because if you are sane, you will get to the ending and go, 'What? What?? Are you f-n kidding me?? That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard!' No joke. The ending, especially after 600 pages, has got to be the biggest let down of any major novel in recent years. I won't spoil it here (however badly I want to vent about it), but I swear to you: it will cause you physical agony when you read it.In short: bad book, promises a lot and delivers none of it. Ignore it, read something else.
2242804	This is actually the second time I've read this book. For a first novel, it is outstanding. I was completely engrossed in the story. I really love history and the whole Dracula lore. I thought it was a great mix of both. It added a lot of suspense that made me read it with the lights on. I think I read it in about four days, I just couldn't put it down. I will say this though, if you are not really into history or researching, I would skip it. If you are wanting to read it just because it has to do with Dracula, I would pick a much smaller book. However, I just love history and research (duh, I work in a library) so it was right up my alley. Actually, I'm doing a little research on it myself. I did read some of the comments on Amazon.com and wasn't exactly surprised by the comments. It was either a "love it" or "hate it" book. That is why I throw my caution out there. Basically, people who didn't enjoy it were out for a Dracula story and thought the history was "a drag". I'm really into history so I thought it was pretty damn good. I will say I did discover a few historical inaccuracies, but I think I'll let them fly for now. ;) All in all, a good read, especially for a rainy day.
324418360	5 Stars—Favorite. Book. Ever.I read this for the first time back in college. I found it in Bargain Books at Barnes and Noble and once I opened it, I was hooked. What was most intriguing was the “Note to the Reader” section . . . I sat there literally arguing with myself about whether or not this was fiction or an actual history book. Does the author not understand that she’s writing fiction? Wait, does she think this story is real?? I needed to find out, so I kept reading. 600 pages later, I am absolutely convinced that this story is real. This book became the gift that I gave to everyone for whatever event called for a gift. I gave a copy to my mother in law, and she loved it! We’re talking about the lady who had never read a single book that even mentioned a vampire in her life! It became a sign of rebellion for her that she reveled in. Whenever her uptight friends came over, she made sure to display The Historian to prove how cool she was! And I haven’t even started talking about the story yet!I try to read this book once every year. And in between readings, I crave the story like no other. Adventure, intrigue, horror, culture, history, everything is in this book. I learn something new every time I read it. This year, I read it while we were on our cruise, I finished it in 3 days. I recommend this to everyone. I don’t care what kind of book you enjoy reading, everyone will love this book.~~~I wrote a review for The Historian a while ago, and when I went back to read it over again, I realized just how incomplete it was. Nothing has changed since I wrote the review, it’s still my favorite book, I still start longing to read it again before my year is over, it still holds me enthralled while I read it yet again! In fact, this year’s reading meant a little more because I was reading it while on a train traveling through Italy, and I saw some of the places mentioned in the book! I sat in Saint Marco’s Square at Florian’s drinking a rich, thick hot chocolate!It still amazes me that a work of fiction can sound so much like history, and that I want to believe it all really happened. Kostova has such a wonderful way of telling stories and then intertwining history and fact, making everything feel so realistic and authentic, like you’re living all the action. I’ve added traveling through the Balkans, by train in the autumn and Budapest and Romania to my list of places that I want to see. The characters are so real that you feel like you’ve made new friends when you finish; when I say to Ivan that I want to visit Istanbul, part of the reason is because I expect to meet Turgut and have him invite us to his house for lunch. You root for them on their search for the Count and the anticipation of “what’s gonna happen next??” glides you through page after page.My historian soul has so much fun year after year, discovering more details and reveling in the search and research. And this book even satisfies my scare addiction! There are times that it’s just creepy enough to give a shudder but not enough to make you put the book down in fright. (Are y’all impressed with how professional I sound in this review? Ha!) And a huge shout out to Elizabeth Kostova for being such a kind and gracious person! I went to her book signing in the spring and she acted genuinely happy to see me. I geeked out all over her, and her response was to buy me a copy of her newest book, The Shadow Land. I’ve met authors who act like they couldn’t care less about their fans; she is not one of them! This book sparked my imagination in such a way that has me coming back to it over and over again, year after year.
23195390	Tentatively, my hand crept towards the mouse. What dark and unholy specter could be contained in other people's reviews of Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian? I was filled with passive-voiced dread as the link was clicked by me. I was horrified to read:xdragonlady's review:"My main problem with the book being that the author told the tale from so many different points of view, but that they were each told in first person without giving the reader any notice as to who was telling the tale. [...] I don't understand why this book is on the bestseller's list."I was aghast! Could the novel I had just read really have been a confounding multi-tiered multiple first-person narrative with lack-luster voices which the author clearly mistook for a clever attempt at recreating a sense of research?With much hesitation, I read on."I find myself thinking of my mother's comment after she read the Da Vinci Code, that it was ok but she knew many other books that were written much better that should be best sellers. I wish Brien had read the book at the same time as I did, I would liked to have talked to him about it."Blast! I too wondered what xdragonladyx's mother and friend Brien would have thought! If only she could have included a detailed transcription of their own reviews! I may now never know if either of them viewed The Historian as an attempt to capitalize on the fad of Dan Brown-style mysteries and the vampire genre! Suddenly, a wayward link caught my eye and I clicked.Silver's review:"I think I read some review here on GoodReads that called this a book to be conquered. You know, one where after a time you feel so invested that you MUST finish it, you must defeat the book, you will NOT give up, no matter how much you are suffering. Whoever said that about Kostova's The Historian, I salute you."As I read this thing about someone reading something else somewhere, I was reminded of my own refusal to allow the dry 600+ page tome to defeat me, and that by the time I had completed the flatulent ending, not only had I conquered it, but impaled it still screaming onto a ten-foot stake. It was dead and without the risk of ever returning to life, so that no one would ever have to read it again.You're welcome.
7399661	** spoiler alert ** Am I destined for some kind of literary hell if I say I wish Dan Brown would rewrite this story with the spark and intensity of the Da Vinci Code?I think I read some review here on GoodReads that called this a book to be conquered. You know, one where after a time you feel so invested that you MUST finish it, you must defeat the book, you will NOT give up, no matter how much you are suffering. Whoever said that about Kostova's The Historian, I salute you.I kept telling my friends I was reading "a book about hunting for Dracula through libraries across Europe," and that it was about as exciting as it sounds. I also needed to conquer this book because I wanted to figure out why so many people, good friends of mine included, loved this book. Maybe the long, hard, snoozy slog, occasionally punctuated by some good old fashioned undead suspense every hundred pages or so, would have a really terrific ending that made it all worth it. Clearly Kostova is very influenced by Gothic and Victorian writers like Stoker, so maybe this book would have a grand payoff of an ending to merit the praise and best-sellerness.Instead, Dracula is a librarian. Sigh. Just as boring as it sounds.It wasn't completely terrible - many charicterizations are off the charts for their specificity and originality. The thing about the books with the Drakulya print was really intriguing. Except that's not enough. The Drakulya books, which could be counted as a premise, with the intrinsic map that is hammered on as a significant discovery, amount to nothing. The map doesn't even figure into the conclusion! Not even with a character saying, "we were totally wrong about that map." So while I enjoyed parts of this book, and had many moments when I couldn't put it down (the alternate to finding it incredibly tedious, with no in-between), I think its merits don't outweigh its shortcomings. I wish I'd read an Actual Gothic novel - maybe even by Bram Stoker - instead of wasting way too long on this frustrating book.
187829895	This book is impossible to resist. It has fairly leapt to the top shelf, where it's nestled down deep with my all time favourites. I confess to being initially reluctant to delve into this story, I mean who really needs another campy, vampire tale? Lucky for me I put these feelings aside long enough to read the first chapter after which there was no looking back. Step into the pages and begin an eerie, haunted, hypnotic adventure thoroughly saturated in ancient history and wondrous, exotic, old European churches, monasteries and libraries that are positively brimming with ancient parchment and long, forgotten maps and books. Kostova's historical tracking of the real Vlad Drakulya is flawless and she is able to describe with a chilling, atmospheric eye for detail, the many settings as well as the political climate in which this story unfolds. A full speed ahead rich, historical thriller with enough gothic images, cultural folklore, ancient crypts and creaking stairs that it is sure to raise the hair on the back of your neck and no doubt a compulsive, insatiable interest in this age old tale. This truly is GREAT fiction!
759885068	a modern take on the Dracula story. This reminded me of The Da Vinci Code in some ways. The story was a pageturner with lots of atmosphere and exotic settings, danger and romance mixed with the secrets of history. But at the end, I found myself thinking, "What a minute. That plot made no sense." Dracula's motivation is sketchy at best, and the choices the characters make just don't ring true, in my opinion. That's all I can say without giving away the plot. Read it and see what you think. I was willing to suspend belief for the whole length of the book. Only afterwards did I feel somewhat cheated. My advice: enjoy it, and don't think about the inconsistencies once you're done.
345076621	Fourth time for me to read this gothic novel about Dracula (both the historical figure and the vampire) and those hunting him, and boy does it still amaze me! And so despite all its happy coincidences, Dracula’s somewhat lackluster motivation to do what it is he does (won’t elaborate; no spoilers) and a few small plot holes here and there, I’ve decided to upgrade it to 5 stars.This novel is so well written and so riveting that I can well turn a blind eye to its flaws and just let myself be blown away again and again. Kostova has penned here the perfect armchair traveling book––also known as travelogue––taking us from the States to England, the Netherlands, Greece, France, Turkey, Romania, Hungary, etc., all that using different time frames and POVs and with the ease of a master storyteller who knows exactly when it is time to move the plot forward and when to take it slow and share with us readers bits and pieces of all the research she did to write her book. After all, it’s called The Historian for a reason. And last but not the least, Kostova's prose is absolutely beautiful––at times old-fashioned verging on the purple (but in a good way); at others downright effective and straight to the point. Again, perfect balance equals perfect rhythm. Equals a perfect story. Well, almost perfect...Anyway, if you're into big fat Gothic books and you fancy yourself an armchair traveler, then don’t hesitate to pick this one up. You won't be disappointed. You're in for a treat!OLIVIER DELAYEAuthor of the SEBASTEN OF ATLANTIS series
526034782	“My dear and unfortunate successor”-That is how all of the yellowing letters are addressed--the letters found, along with an ancient book, by a young woman one evening while perusing her father’s Library.Following in her father’s footsteps, they will lead her to the secrets of her father's past (and her mother's mysterious fate) and precede a search for the truth about Vlad the Impaler, the ACTUAL medieval ruler whose cruel and barbaric reign formed the basis for the legend of Dracula— It was a quest that nearly brought him to ruin years ago, when he was himself a young scholar and her mother was still alive. The answers to these questions are discovered as FIRST the father and THEN the daughter search for clues, from dusty Ivy League libraries to Istanbul, Budapest, and into Eastern Europe—all revealed through letters, secret conversations, documents and archives. I read this book years ago, long before Goodreads, but a recent review reminded me of this book, which has a prominent role on my bookshelf, so I decided to add this review to my 5 star rating. It is a 704 page DEBUT which took the author, Elizabeth Kostova, ten years to write.✍🏻 I remember feeling AWED by this IMPRESSIVE piece of HISTORICAL FICTION.If you are a fan of DRACULA, you may want to give it a read! Yes, it is LONG-Take your time with it, instead of trying to push through. It never felt like a chore to finish and it is worth SAVORING.
2579048550	... sorta depends on what you read first!There are lots of good things to say about Elizabeth Kostova's THE HISTORIAN! It's moving, suspenseful, creepy, deeply atmospheric, haunting and informative at the same time about a particular area of the world and a point in time that few readers will be familiar with.The basic plot is beautifully summarized in Amazon's editorial reviews and, frankly, I don't think I can improve on it ... so I'll reproduce it here for the reader's convenience:The story opens in Amsterdam in 1972, when a teenage girl discovers a medieval book and a cache of yellowed letters in her diplomat father's library. The pages of the book are empty except for a woodcut of a dragon. The letters are addressed to: "My dear and unfortunate successor." When the girl confronts her father, he reluctantly confesses an unsettling story: his involvement, twenty years earlier, in a search for his graduate school mentor, who disappeared from his office only moments after confiding to Paul his certainty that Dracula--Vlad the Impaler, an inventively cruel ruler of Wallachia in the mid-15th century--was still alive. The story turns out to concern our narrator directly because Paul's collaborator in the search was a fellow student named Helen Rossi (the unacknowledged daughter of his mentor) and our narrator's long-dead mother, about whom she knows almost nothing. And then her father, leaving just a note, disappears also."Sounds exciting, doesn't it?Kostova's superb writing skills will charge the reader with suspense and a delicious frisson of horror from the very first page. But, sadly, those heightened expectations are slowly deflated over the course of a rather lengthy novel . Indeed, as I turned the final page, the conclusion that had been building in my mind for more than a few chapters crystallized into a firm conviction! Bram Stoker did it first and, because of that, Bram Stoker unquestionably did it better! Kostova's a great writer but THE HISTORIAN is an average and frankly derivative novel that did little more than recast the hunt for Dracula's final resting place into a modern format.Let's put it this way ... if you've not read Bram Stoker's DRACULA, then Kostova's THE HISTORIAN is liable to take your breath away. But, if you're looking for new insights into the Dracula legend or a different take on the story, I would submit that you're sadly set up for disappointment.Paul Weiss
859567417	A plodding, contrived, poorly written mess of a book about three generations of historians researching the Dracula legend. It spans centuries, countries and strains all credulity.The multi-narrative structure is ambitious (and, of course, is a nod to Stoker's classic novel), but Kostova doesn't pull it off. All her characters - unless they have an obvious accent - sound alike and there's far too much exposition and repetition.The final quarter (it's a looong book, about as long as Vlad's life) is suspenseful and atmospheric, and obviously she's done a lot of research into how historians gather facts.But if you'll pardon the pun, boy does this book suck.
5185637030	4.25⭐'s "As a historian, I have learned that, in fact, not everyone who reaches back into history can survive it. And it is not only reaching back that endangers us; sometimes history itself reaches inexorably forward for us with its shadowy claw.” Initial Thoughts Happy New Year, Happy New book as they say. Step forward Elizabeth Kostova with The Historian.I'm on a mission to burn through a big chunk of the books on my bookshelf (a lot of them on that Kindle electronic bookshelf) before I splurge any cash on new ones. An almost impossible task as all you fellow book horders know. But when someone buys you a fantastic gift in a Secret Santa what's a guy to do? Particularly when you're a die hard fan of the most famous of horror icons...the fangtastic count himself... Dracula!I've not heard a great deal about the author of The Historian, Elizabeth Kostova, other than she was the author of this book. I did know that it is an investigation of the Dracula and vampire mythos based on historical events, and that is cool with me. Anything other than that sparkly Twilight garbage that is so envogue at the minute. It pains me to see what Stephanie Meyer has done to my beloved bloodsucking fiends. If you like that kind of stuff I make no apologies, I'm not a teenage girl after all.Anyway, on with the review. The Story Although the premise is simple, uncovering the true history of Dracula (AKA Vlad "the Impaler" Tepes) and the location of his tomb, the narrative is anything but. Theres multiple timelines going on as the story follows three generations of historians investigating the mythos who have received mysterious books that bear the mark of "Drakulya"The story is told from the perspective of the young unamed daughter of a diplomat, living in Amsterdam. When her father goes missing and she discovers a collection of letters in her father's study after he mysteriously leaves her during a trip to England. I know we all dream of ditching our kids sometimes but this guy actually goes and does it. What a hero! And daughter soon discovers that uncovering the truth behind Dracula is somewhat of a life or death obsession for father, and in order to find him she is going to have to uncover the truth behind the legend.This is where we get the bulk of the story that takes place over twenty years prior. The letters detail the travels of her father, Paul, and his love interest and fellow academic Helen Rossi through Turkey and Eastern Europe searching for his adviser, Professor Bartholomew Rossi, who mysteriously disappeared. This then leads to a further story within a story as we get the backstory behind how Professor Rossi became entangled in this most dangerous of webs. Yes, he was someone else digging about in the whereabouts of the body of Vlad Tepes. It is rivetting stuff, but that's as much as you're getting out of me. The Writing The Historian is a big ass book with a lot of detail and a pretty complex plot. It is not easy Sunday reading and requires a good bit of investment to get the rewards from it. It's pretty slow, particularly in the first half, but beautifully written. Kostova's skill at creating mood and atmosphere is certainly impressive and her knowledge on the vampire mythos and medieval history surrounding it is outstanding.It adopts a style that is very reminiscent of the original Dracula by Bram Stoker with the letters and personal accounts, and this was something I really appreciated as it complements it so well. It began to feel like I was someone investigating events that had really taken place, digging through recently discovered documents. I was fully immersed in this fantastically woven narrative and this is the novels real strength in how authentic it is. You can really begin to feel that this is something that just could have happened.In terms of the horror, there are some very creepy and atmospheric scenes but these are scattered throughout this huge narrative. So don't be expecting a shock to the system every other page. It's more about the history and mystery so bear that in mind if you're after some excessive gore. It is definitely not that type of book On the negative side, it does get a bit long-winded in places with lavish and exuberant description of places and locations. It is beautifully written but has an extreme level of detail. At times it really makes you feel like you're there but other times it does begin to feel like a travelguide. I know there's a lot of readers that can't handle this slower pace so just wanted to get that out there. "The very worst impulses of humankind can survive generations, centuries, even millennia. And the best of our individual efforts can die with us at the end of a single lifetime." The Characters You know me by now, I'll be brutally honest about my perceived flaws in a novel and the Historian is without doubt a plot driven experience. The characters are there to advance the story and there isn't a huge amount of depth to any of them apart from Helen Rossi, who had a fair bit of intrigue and mystery surrounding her. It's certainly not a Stephen King level of character development and I would have appreciated a little more detail.But with the way the story is delivered, through letters and first hand accounts, it may just have not been possible to do this in a believable way. The novel certainly succeeds despite the minimal character work based on how engaging that narrative is. So I wouldn't let that put you off. Final Thoughts Bloody hell this review is getting long. A bit like something else. I mean the Historian of course. At seven hundred pages it is a beast, but although not initially rewarding if you stick with it you'll find a satisfying experience. That's if you want to be a vampire detective for a couple of weeks searching for clues amongst historic documents in vaulted libraries. It makes it cool to be a history geek in the same way the Da Vinci code did, but with a horror flavour.The ending however was a touch lackluster. After all that careful planning and setting up the resolution felt rushed. The threat is dealt with way too quickly after all that build up. But as my man Stephen King often says the joy is in the journey and not in the destination.What this book is, is a fantastic homage to the original Dracula that certainly achieves it's goal of paying tribute to that man Bram Stoker. It puts vampires back where they belong after years of that Twilight nonsense and that is nothing but a good thing.Anyway, if you've got a spare couple of weeks give it ago. Just be prepared to give it a fair chance.And thanks for reading...cheers! "As you know, human history is full of evil deeds, and maybe we ought to think of them with tears, not fascination."
3553335999	Este libro tenía toda la pinta de ser una gran promesa, con todos los ingredientes.Kostova ambienta su libro en parte de los años setenta, una parte de la historia de esos años, intenta escribir con un lenguaje muy florido, pero para mí realmente sonó algo exagerado o excesivo. Si, sé que su personaje es una joven historiadora, pero la narrativa podría ser más elegante, incluso en una historia sobre jóvenes. Todos en la historia hablan con la misma voz. Por no hablar de que en varias ocasiones tuve que volver y releer porque había perdido el hilo de quién hablaba. Mucho cambio, mismo tono.La estructura multinarrativa es ambiciosa es un guiño a la novela de Stoker, pero Kostova no lo logra. Todos sus personajes, suenan parecidos no los diferenciaba. Hay demasiada exposición y repetición. Kostova sobrescribió. Mucho. Una cantidad excesiva de páginas que sobran en el libro. La perspectiva cambiaba con frecuencia. Fue confuso, agotador, aburrido a ratos, otros que tenía que volver atrás, personajes vacíos muy planos. Una historia que podía haber dado para grandes cosas con buenos resultados. Una idea interesante. Pero está mal llevado, todo demasiado excesivo. Como resultado convirtió su lectura en un coñazo para mi.Escribe sobre Vlad Tepes, Drácula, intentando crear una nueva versión a la historia, pero en realidad hacer esto ya es muy difícil que sea un éxito. Nada nuevo, nada sorprendente. En los momentos de mayor suspense, por denominarlos de alguna manera ya que a eso es que no puede ni llamársele "intento de" me sorprendía estar leyendo y ver el intento de la autora de crear tensión. La protagonista tiene momentos en los que teme por su vida, lo pasa mal o pasa algo, y va la escena siguiente y está tomando un té tan tranquilamente. ¿Pero qué...? No ha logrado ni ejecutar, ni mezclar bien los momentos. Algunos me parecieron absurdos. Crea tensión, la rompe pronto, o lo deja ahí sin más. Muy mundano..Los personajes. Inexistentes. De cartón. No son nada realistas. No encontré nada en ellos que llame la atención lo más mínimo, sin diferencias entre unos y otros. Usan el mismo tono, o tienen las mismas reacciones y todo se conecta al azar. No hay "casi nada" creíble en ellos o yo ni les preste la debida atención entre los bostezos y el café debido a las cartas. De las que luego hablaré, porque joder, tiene tela la cosa... La protagonista en la historia ya para empezar solo se mueve por la superación, por el deseo de resolver el misterio que su padre no pudo, para demostrar que es una mejor historiadora. No hay más, vacío, con momentos que en fin..Las cosas simplemente suceden. Así por que si. Sin razón. Hay deux ex maquina para regalar y los personajes pues se juntan románticamente hablando, de la manera más sosa y a momentos sin sentido. Por que sí. Sin lógica, simplemente lo hacen sin más. Sin nada que haga entrar en materia. Joder algo de sal, especias. Algo de sabor joder. Romance absurdo que no despierta interés alguno.Las cartas, ¡Las puñeteras cartas!, detalladas, mucho, vaya que si lo son, tanto como excesivas y aburridas. He leído varios libros que utilizan ese formato de cartas integradas en la trama de manera eficiente y eficaz. Le da un puntazo a la lectura. Pero aquí me pareció tan absurdo. Aquí no solo son largas, sino que también están excesivamente detalladas en cosas que no son necesarias. Lo que crea pues otra capa más de basura, perdón, otra razón por la que al libro y a sus personajes les falta vida, alma o algo que destacar. Increíbles. Y ese intento de romance me importó bien poco.Deus ex maquina y coincidencias hay para dar y regalar como caramelos. En el libro suceden por doquier algunas coincidencias. Vale, algunas no pondría objeción. Pero como casi todo aquí es y sucede por que si, en otras se excede. Es que no he identificado ni una puñetera razón realista para que la mayoría de los personajes hagan las cosas que hacen.Por no hablar del desenlace de algun personaje que me dejo con la boca abierta, vamos que ni la factura de la luz.La historia es sobre vampiros, en este caso el ya usado, en exceso, Drácula. Y cómo un profesor, Rossi, realizó una investigación para descubrir más sobre un libro aparentemente vacío con la imagen de un dragón en su cubierta. Paul otro personaje, recibió el mismo tipo de libro, al igual que otros antes. Años más tarde la hija de Paul encuentra papeles y cartas en la estantería de su padre y consigue que empiece a contar su historia, por fin..La mayoría de historias de vampiros se basan en los clásicos; seres oscuros, en el amparo de la noche, con colmillos, mucha sangre, con algo de romance calentorro. Seres sin alma que matan sin temor o piedad en callejones oscuros y que toman la forma de varias cosas. En este libro no hay nada de esto, ni nada nuevo o realizado con éxito. Avanza, lentamente por no hablar de cuando llegan las cartas, de verdad que trauma me ha dejado las malditas cartas. Y avanza la trama, pasado y presente. Recopilando información sobre Tepes. Que a su vez este va jugando con los personajes y sus lectores, lo único que puedo decir que tiene un aceptable.A veces daba la sensación de un gran trabajo de investigación, intrigante. Pero no fue por el buen camino ni bien llevado. Fueron demasiados lugares, épocas, se desvía todo por tangentes que me sobrepasaron como lector.Un elenco de personajes en el libro que convergen en el último capítulo, unas putas 400 páginas demasiado tarde, lo hace para sostener y desarrollar el final, que ni de coña, ni de coña se sostiene. Después de tanta vuelta, páginas y de tanta carta estás esperando que el final sea algo maravilloso. Ni eso, ni eso, una decepción.. Terminé, cerré el libro y me quedé; lo que acabo de leer, ¿Como he sido capaz de terminarlo?...Es una pena, creo que llevado de otra manera, cortando muchas otras y dándole algo de alma y sentido tenía todas las características de una gran historia. Pero nada se ejecutó e integró de manera correcta. Una pérdida de tiempo que no puedo recomendar.
18562076	It has been some time since I read this, so my recollections may not be that accurate. I tend to make these decisions (do I like or not like a book?) viscerally, rather than by formula. But I figured that any book that merited my little used "pissed me off" category, deserved an explanation. The Historian:Kostova sets her book partly in the 70s, partly in history, and she tries to write in a flowery language, like the great masters of novel from the 19th century- but to me, she really just comes off sounding pretentious, overwrought and juvenile. Yes, her character is supposed to be young, but the writing can be elegant, even with a young and immature subject. In addition, everyone in the whole story speaks with the same voice. Many times I had to backtrack because I'd lost the thread of who was speaking. Then, she writes about Vlad, Dracula, attempting to add new lore to the story, but never really gives us any surprises. At the most "suspenseful" moments, I often found myself feeling irritatingly amused at the author's attempt to create tension. One moment she is in fear of her life, and the next, she's what? sipping tea? And I don't recall that Kostova mixes her scenes well. She creates tension, but then breaks it too soon, or holds back from stretching it out, or drops into the completely mundane, instead of just pulling back a little. Even her main character doesn't seem to be driven by anything except one-upmanship, the desire to solve this mystery that her father couldn't, not for anyone's sake except proving that she's a better historian? Lastly, the stories of Dracula are supposed to be horrific, but also reluctantly romantic. She rarely rises above twittering, and it was never at any junction a book that I devoured. Mostly I just got through it, only to discover at the very end, when everything is supposedly wrapped up, with no foreshadowing, she tacks on a "oh by the way, he could still be alive! muahahaha!" Okay then. To comment specifically, I'd probably have to reread, or at least review, the book, which I'm not willing to do when there are still so many thousands of brilliantly written stories out there that I haven't discovered yet.
1916122816	What I really enjoyed about this book was the strong, vivid descriptions of the gothic architecture and all these sights around the world. I also enjoyed the folklore and mystery surrounding Vlad III of Wallachia which subsequently gave rise to the Dracula story. However, all that did was try to make up for a very thin and shallow plot that didn't really interest me as much. I'd recommend it more for updating your TripAdvisor as opposed to reading it for the fiction.
2814058	This book reminded me of the DaVinci code in some ways, but was much more interesting and better written. All of the research and historical documents were fascinating. I was especially interested in the subject matter, because it was about Vlad Ţepeş, the Wallachian (Romanian) prince, who Bram Stoker popularized as Dracula. (Not because I'm interested in vampires, but because I served my mission in Romania and was interested in Vlad himself. Evil and terrible as he was, the Romanians actually are very proud of him because he saved their country from the Turks. They do not like it at all that he is construed to be Dracula. His father was called Vlad Dracul, which is where that name comes from. Dracul is the Romanian word for the dragon.)The Historian goes with the belief that he is definitely a Vampire, and that he is still alive. Or "undead" as it were. There are three different stories weaved together into one about three people who are trying to find Dracula: The narrator, who is telling her story from her viewpoint as a 16 year old girl in 1972, her father, whose story is told through letters to his daughter as well as conversations about his experiences in 1954 and finally, Professor Rossi, who was the father's advisor in college. Rossi's story is also told through letters and conversations and occurred in 1931. Every once in a while it is difficult to figure out which story you are reading as they jump around so much, but after the first few chapters you start to get a feel for it and it seemed really ingenious the way she chose to combine the three stories.I loved reading so much about the history of Eastern Europe during the rule of the Ottomans as well as during Communist times. I don't know how much of it is actually based in fact, as that line blurs when we talk of vampirism and Vlad Ţepeş, but I know much of it was. The author is obviously an excellent researcher and really knew her stuff.I was slightly annoyed by the fact that the Romanian language wasn't always written accurately (I guess she didn't research that quite enough). It was almost always missing diacritical markings, except for in place names. Her Hungarian seemed to have all the diacritical markings in it, and I am unsure of the Bulgarian, since she used our alphabet rather than cyrillic. So I was just bugged by that, although I know most people wouldn't even care! :)It also bothered me that we never know the name of the narrator. Her father never refers to her by name, and neither does anyone else it seems. We know she was named for "Helen's mother" but "Helen's mother" is another character whose name we never actually hear. I don't know why this bothered me so much, but it did. I guess we get to make up her name, and since we know it was Romanian, I choose Anca. :)The epilogue was a little unsettling, and the final resolution of the story seems comical when I think about it now, but it was completely fitting and totally acceptable in the framework of the story. I did have to chuckle every time I read the phrase "evil librarian."It is not a quick read...took me nearly a week to get through, but definitely enjoyable. Kostova has a lovely, almost Victorian style of writing. Very descriptive. The book also scared me out of my wits at times. Really good though. Loved it, despite all my above annoyances.
4933889055	„Прелистих книгата — човек, който по цял ден се рови в книги, посреща всяка нова книга като приятел, дори като изкушение...“„Историкът“ е разкошен роман! Той представлява мрачна вампирска история, но е изключително красиво и увлекателно написан, та неусетно го прочетох и не ми се искаше да свършва. Елизабет Костова е създала превъзходна готическа атмосфера, разказвайки за вълнуващи приключения, свързани с легендарния Влад Дракула. Действието се развива в различни държави, като настоящите премеждия са елегантно съчетани с любопитни ретроспекции... След време определено ще се завръщам към това книжно съкровище! „Беше ми приятно отново да вляза в библиотека, миришеше ми като у дома. Тази библиотека беше неокласическа съкровищница, цялата в тъмно резбовано дърво, с балкони, галерии и стенописи. Очите ми обаче бяха приковани от редиците книги, стотици хиляди книги, опасващи стените от пода до тавана, безупречни редички от червени, кафяви и позлатени корици, с твърдите им като мрамор подвързии и гладките форзаци, с грапавите прешлени на гърбовете им, кафяви като стари кости. Чудех се къде ли са ги крили по време на войната и колко дълго е трябвало отново да ги редят по възстановените лавици.“
2093037165	Well written, interesting perspective on Vlad the Impaler. Good research into the history of that part of the world.
4478586084	‘Perhaps it was the contagion of my fathers’s letters, but everything looked suspicious to me now. It was as if we were being followed by eyes I could not see.’If you liked the Dan Brown ‘Da Vinci code’ series, Dracula and vampires, train rides across Europe, descriptions through stories, letters and real life, 15th and 16th century history, action and romance…this is for you.Reading the book with the intertwined stories and characters telling them certainly keeps you on your toes. But it is well worth it.Ps I will never look at Librarians in the same way again
22609401	If there were negative stars, I would give them to this book. OMG, words fail me.On second thought..they don't. Let me describe the ways this book sucked.First off, it sucked because it COULD have been a brilliant book....its IN there...somewhere in the 642 pages. I would venture to say....its about 300 pages too long. At page 201 into the book, it was still plodding along unmercifully. They way it is written, in first person, is way too choppy. Some chapters are being told by the "dad" charachter- Paul. Some are being told by the "daughter" charachter.So, the story is about vampires/Drakula and how a professor- Rossi - researched to discover more about an empty book with a dragon picture in it. Paul received the same kind of book, as do others woven into the story. The daughter finds papers and letters on her fathers bookshelf, and gets him to start telling his story.There is a cast of charachters in the book that finally converge in the last chapter or two - about 300 pages too late if you ask me, to help the final story unfold. But at this point, you are expecting something grand and wonderful. Its just a big disappointment. I finished it thinking...THATS IT??. That is what I wasted 3 nights of reading on.Remember the classic christmas movie - A Christmas Story - when Ralphie gets the Secret Decoder Ring in the mail and decodes the secret message "Drink your Ovaltine" and says, "Thats it?!? A CRUMMY COMMERCIAL"That is how you will feel when you finish this Crap of a Novel. You will feel cheated. Its a shame too - it has all the makings of a great story I think, but it just wasn't executed properly. I don't mind LONG books either - some of my favorites run in the 800 page realm. But this one just plodded and plodded along. YOu kept getting to the next chapter thinking...surely it will pick up now.It NEVER DOES.
2234405079	“Not everyone who reaches back into history can survive it.” I hope I will have time to write more about this book later, but one thing I need to mention is: what you hear about is true. The denouement is ridiculous and I honestly don't understand why it had to be this why, since it's more than apparent that Kostova's imagination is, to say the least, extraordinarily vivid. Dracula's motive is implausible and unconvincing, but I feel that it holds a symbolic meaning in Kostova's conception of the novel, and therefore, even though plot-wise it's nothing short of embarrassing, I can turn a blind eye on it. I can do that especially because the rest of the book, that is to say more than 620 out of a total of 700, is not only entertaining, but also both insanely instructive and insanely intriguing, and I loved it madly. More on the reasons later.Full RTC
578474704	OMG I DID IT.Also, considering how long it took me to get through this mammoth, dense history lesson, I'm actually rating it pretty highly. I did enjoy.However I'm burned out from the effort so I'm reverting to bullet points for a bit.Good Things-Lots of pretty places-Dracula-Historical Dracula in all his impaling glory-Fun story that romps all over the world-Rossi was such a cute old man. Am I allowed to say he was cute? He reminded me of Indiana Jones' dad, but then maybe I'm mentally building the character more than the book did XD Bad Things-The LENGTH OF THIS THING.-SO. MUCH. DETAIL. (see first point)-Stories within stories within stories within stories (see first point)-Story was so sloooooooow (see first point)-Uncanny coincidence that so many people all over the world they happen to bump into are doing the same kinda research and they want to help-No picturesBasically it was just too damn long but was otherwise an interesting, unique tale filled with fascinating history that was weaved in with fiction and an element of the supernatural for suspense.That's all I have to say on the matter at this time.
40206437	I liked it. I thought reading the letters was an interesting way to tell the story. I usually like a lot more action in my books, but somehow I didn't mind with this one. It unfolded slowly, but still managed to stay interesting.
8570332	THE HISTORIAN BY ELIZABETH KOSTOVA: Welcome to a retelling of Dracula for the twenty-first century, only think much better and more interesting; less of the weak and pitiful women and demanding men; more history and research. Elizabeth Kostova, while no doubt being a very well off person who went to the best schools for writing, has nevertheless spent a long time researching and writing The Historian with the resulting book being little about vampires and undead and more about books and history and researching and following the trail; its an academic adventure novel.Our narrator is a young girl in her teens traveling through Europe, following the letters of her father from his travels in the 1950s, who is following the letters of his mentor from his travels in the 1930s. While most of the book is in letter form – with speech quotes framing just about every sentence – Kostova forgoes the accuracy of the letter form and, like Bram Stoker in Dracula, makes the letters part of the novel with action, emotion, and character reaction – attributes that would not usually be in a letter, but for the sake of this book, they need to be.The premise is that Dracula, or Drakulya, better known as Vlad the Impaler, who was killed in battle in the fifteenth century is still alive and well in the twentieth century. The three story lines of the narrator, her father, and his professor, all have an event in common: they each received a copy of an ancient book with an elaborate woodcut of a dragon, the symbol and emblem of Drakulya. Each of them travel throughout the many cities of Europe tracking Dracula and tracking each other through their letters; clearly Kostova herself traveled to each of this cities, for the book is partially a travel log of Europe, written in exquisite detail. At the end of the book, when each person finally confronts Dracula in their time, it is revealed that Dracula himself is a lover of history and books and has been building up his library for hundreds of years with the hope of having every old book and important piece of writing in history at his finger tips, all he needs is a librarian to maintain it, of course they need to be turned undead so that their duties as librarian will last as long as Dracula is alive. The professor is turned and when this is discovered, is staked, while the narrator’s father leaves due to the loss of his wife – the narrator’s mother – thinking her dead. It is at the very end when the narrator finds Dracula, she also finds her father on the trail, and then her mother who all play a part in killing Dracula once and for all; the family united at last.While this review may make The Historian seem trivial and “tied in a big red bow,” the author clearly worked very hard and long in her research of books and places; the result is a lengthy tome that takes you on a long journey through a well-described Europe, through old documents and books, to an adversary we have read and written about for hundreds of years.For more book reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter.
1054421313	A book with a happy ending unwrought by a dire, grim, sad, and flat epilogue is a curious thing. It can only come from the pen of a patient author like Kostova. Many books, if not most of them, if not all, have one character most responsible for the end of their stories. Here the person in question is Eva's mother Helen. She is also in the center of a convoluted disappearing act worthy of a bad Agatha Christie book. The Historian is about how time can become history in the hands of its watchers. The monstrous tyrant from the past can become relevant again if he's from the dead. Time that sums up a person's activities is called a lifetime. The author adds word after word, patiently building up her work, using all her skills and craftsmanship. The words are often ordinary, but they represent ideas that are worth reading. Who is the historian? Who is the titular character. It should be Paul or Rossi. It could be Helen or Eva. But it could also be Dracula himself, as he is mentioned as a historian once. The book, told through letters and postcards, is not from the horror genre, but all points converge to Dracula. Having said that, I think Dracula is just a pretext, meant to clothe this impressive book with a purpose. I just wish that there had been no Epilogue. I want happy endings in books that I don't want to end.
23158219	(Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.)So first, a disclosure: I actually received a free used copy of Elizabeth Kostova's 2005 modern vampire tale The Historian unexpectedly in the mail one day, from author Akmal Shebl at the same time he sent in his own book Prisoners in Paradise for review, not as a bribe I think but rather an example of what his own book is similar to. (My review of Shebl's book will be coming in a few weeks, by the way.) And I didn't mind receiving the book at all, to tell you the truth, because The Historian is a good book for me to review here at CCLaP; runaway bestseller, soon-to-be major motion picture, this was not only Kostova's very first novel but one that also garnered her a $2 million advance, an almost unheard-of amount even for established veteran authors. And indeed, now that I've read it myself, I can safely call it a faithful reproduction of a typical Victorian novel (also known as a "Romantic" novel), albeit one with a real "DaVinci Code" flavor to it, and can see why the "American Idol" crowd has been going so nuts about it. And in fact, because of the "CCLaP 100" series of "classics" essays I've been doing here this year, I've ended up reading quite a bit of Victorian literature, so can tell you exactly what it is about Kostova's novel that reminds me so much of the style...--Extremely overwritten, flowery prose, one that sometimes literally uses entire chapters to serve only as elaborate introductions to the next chapters. (Hint: If you're reading this yourself for the first time, and ever come across the phrase "And then they stepped off the train at [fill in the blank]," you can safely skip the entire manuscript until the phrase "And then he said, 'Shall I continue my story?'")--A sweeping global scope to the story, but with descriptions of cities that are no more insightful than simply describing a photograph of the place.--A cheap moment of inconsequential dread added to the end of each chapter, mostly as a reminder to unsophisticated readers that the chapter is ending. ("And then she noticed a man menacingly staring at her on the train platform. Or was he? Maybe he was! Or perhaps he wasn't! And then f-ck it, she went to the hotel, end of chapter 13.")--A superstitious, occult-based storyline that at all times pushes the limits of common sense: in this case, a literal retelling of Bram Stoker's 1897 Dracula, only more historical in nature, more expansive in setting, and with a fair dose of Indiana-Jones-style adventure thrown in.--A personal style known as "epistolary," in which the story is told not through an omniscient narrator and traditional dialogue, but instead through a series of written documents such as letters, newspaper clippings, diary entries and more.--And finally, a strong whiff of cheese to the entire thing, the exact kind of dumbed-down so-called "historical thriller" that all the Bubbas of the world mistake for a true story and great literature, the kind of book that makes many intellectuals sadly shake their heads and say, "Well, there goes a little more American culture and sophistication, right down the f-cking drain."Now, all that said, this does not make Victorian-style literature like The Historian necessarily bad! It just means that you need to have a certain attitude going into it, a certain natural love for the elements mentioned above and a certain tolerance for extremely purple prose. The Historian is not exactly a bad read, although truthfully I can't exactly call it a good novel either; it is in fact a curious modern document from an older age, a novel that feels like it was written 150 years ago even though it was actually less than five. I myself found it difficult to even finish, simply because I grow tired of overwritten prose and gaping plot-holes very easily; but there are millions of others who are passionate fans, and they can't be entirely discounted in my review just because I in particular didn't care for it. It gets a limited recommendation from me today, although to be truthful I'm now looking forward to reading through Shebl's novel as well, to see how it compares.Out of 10: 6.8, or 8.3 for fans of Victorian/Romantic thrillers
6979492133	Me ha encantado! Más que leer un libro sentía como si estuviera viajando. Eso sí, el final un poco apresurado.
1505421653	"The Historian" has gripping sections, some beautiful prose, and some original, and intelligent ideas. Especially about the nature of history, research, and how both inform our modern lives. However, after finishing the text I am not blown away. After investing the time to read the 600+ page novel I feel slighted if the text does not leave me with something more than a "I'm finished with that one" feeling.The first 300 or so pages of this text are exciting and well written, and then the text slows down slower than the pilgrimages of the medieval monks that it is describing. I don't know where Ms. Kostova's editors were, but they dropped the ball on that one. If you like historical texts, thriller genres, and have an interest in the legend of Dracula then the text is worth the time. However, if you are not ardent about all three then I believe you will not enjoy this novel. I know many people who hated this text and did not finish it. I know only one person, a PhD in History, who loved it. I would count myself as ambivalent. I wish I wasn't.
1409450168	Whoa.. I just finished this book about five minutes ago and I'm still processes all of it. Let me just say, The Historian is not an easy read nor a quick one - but it is certainly worth the trouble. Seriously, pick this book up.I don't wan't to give anything away with this one, purely because one of the most beautiful things about this book is its ability to keep you thinking the entire time. Each chapter, every letter, my mind was constantly trying to put things together because i was genuinely curious to know what was going on. (Did I mention that half the time you'll have no idea what's going on?)Let me also applaud Elizabeth Kostova's obvious and brilliant research. Throughout the entire book, I kept thinking about how much research she had to do for this book to make sense, and it did not disappoint. Everything was nearly perfect, with the exception of a few paragraphs I had to re-read to fully understand.The only real negative would be that sometimes I did find myself slightly bored (though, not for long). However, the biggest negative is that this is Kostova's only book! I really enjoyed her writing and would love to see what other historical fiction stories she can come up with. [EDIT 2019: It's actually not her only book! I don't know what I was talking about. She has two others!]Overall, it was a pleasantly challenging book. One of the few books that kept me up late into the night.
1306534664	“Battle not with monsters, lest ye become a monster, and if you gaze into the abyss, the abyss gazes also into you.” – Friedrich NietzscheThe story of Dracula has always fascinated people. The author created a retelling of sorts where a young girl finds a book and papers in her father's library. This discovery will change lives forever.This book had been on my to-read list for quite some time. I always kept putting it off, not sure why, but eventually after making time to listen to more audiobooks, I decided to give this book a listen. I have to say that the audiobook was very nicely done, and I highly recommend it. I loved the spooky music that played in between chapters. This really created a creepy and spooky vibe that paired well with this book. I also enjoyed the narration as well. The quest for answers in this book, sees characters on a guest of sorts that will lead them to....I am not sure if I would have enjoyed this book as much if I had read it, but the audiobook really made the book for me. I also enjoyed the journey that the characters take. The emphasis is more on them and the quest if you than on Dracula. But of course, there is Dracula but there is so much more to this book. I enjoyed the atmosphere in this book. I could smell the old books and feel the dampness in the old buildings. The history of Europe, the legend of Dracula, the old churches and relics all set the stage. This is a long book, but it is very nicely crafted. It did get slow in parts, but I didn't mind.A worthwhile read/listen if you don't mind the length.
1805111143	The Historian is a standalone historical fiction novel written by Elizabeth Kostova. Yes, it has vampires in it and no, it's not classified as paranormal. Why? Because of Ms. Kostova's attention to historical accuracy, specifically regarding the historical figure of Vlad the Impaler rather than the mythical (and paranormal) Dracula the Vampire. In an online interview, Ms. Kostova stated, “I took a real historical mystery, the question of where Vlad the Impaler is buried–or what became of his remains–and spun out a fictional speculation from there. The other historical events in the book are real ones, carefully researched, although the twentieth-century characters are fictional.”Personally, I loved how layered this book is. Multiple stories build upon each other in many exotic locations bridging across several centuries. It's a very rich reading experience full of culture, history, adventure, and mystery. This was a beast to read in terms of length, but I was never bored and I remained eager to pick up wherever I left off. If you enjoy historical thrillers, specifically those written in a similar style to Dan Brown, you'll love The Historian. Check it out!My favorite quote:“For all his attention to my historical education, my father had neglected to tell me this: history’s terrible moments were real. I understand now, decades later, that he could never have told me. Only history itself can convince you of such a truth. And once you’ve seen that truth—really seen it—you can’t look away.”A bit of trivia: It took Elizabeth Kostova ten years to write The Historian. This was the first debut novel to ever debut at #1 on the New York Times bestseller list. Ms. Kostova was initially inspired by her own childhood memories of her father, who was a professor, telling her stories about Dracula.
2344200245	*****5 stars.***** Como he dicho anteriormente, cuando uno se enamora de la pluma de un autor difícilmente habrá poco que pueda gustar. Review in my account bookstagram En este caso Kostova me atrajo con Tierra de sombras, RESEÑA AQUÍ , quedé tan encantada con la autora que empecé a investigar más de sus libros y descubrí La historiadora y después de leerlo quedé totalmente enamorada. No puedo ser imparcial con un libro de 700 páginas que me haya tenido enganchada durante días y noches y haberlo acabado en tan solo 6 días. Pocas veces me suceden estas cosas con un libro largo.La historia se narra en tres épocas y como punto central la ubicación de la tumba de Drácula, su vida como figura histórica y el mito construido a su alrededor. Paul, siendo un estudiante de post-grado, inicia su estudio de Vlad El Empalador, también conocido como Vlad Dracul, cuando recibe de forma misteriosa un libro en blanco con una xilografía en la página central con el símbolo de la Orden del Dragón, creada por el padre de Vlad. Dicho libro tendrá relación con Bartholomew Rossi (director de la tesis de Paul) y con Turgut Bora, profesor turco de literatura inglesa en la Universidad de Estambul y los secretos que descubrió sobre ello. Años después la hija de Paul descubre por casualidad unas cartas dentro de un libro, le pregunta a su padre sobre ello y este le cuenta sobre la desaparición del director de su tesis, el profesor Rossi, la búsqueda de Paul visitando bibliotecas en Estambul, monasterios en Rumania y aldeas en Bulgaria tratando de encontrar el rastro de su mentor. El libro desde el primer capítulo me tuvo enganchada y a medida que avanzaba no decae la narración. Elizabeth Kostova supo enlanzar de forma excelente la figura histórica de Vlad con la fantasía que todo encaja perfectamente. Si algo he de decir sobre esta historia es que me encantó, la recreación de los monumentos y bibliotecas a través de la narración fue maravillo, tanto asi que me senti del libro viviéndolo todo. Lo más que amé fue Estambul; leer la narración de esa ciudad fue magia pura con Santa Sofía como elemnto central de todo.Si hay cosas negativas, aunque considero que sólo una y fue ese final, un poco apresurado para mí y abierto a muchas incognitas. Sin embargo es de mis favoritos de este 2018 y lo recomiendo a todos. Actualización 12/06/2018 ¡Espectacular! Amo esta mujer y es de mis lecturas favoritas de este año. Reseña pronto 😍.
3188232373	I read this book over ten years ago and am so glad I decided to reread it this year. The writing is so lush with detail and is beautifully done. I loved Paul, his sense of purpose, his passion, and his determination to see things through. I loved walking through the rich history this book delves into. It makes me want to visit Budapest and Bulgaria and tour the monasteries and towns there. Helen, I don't know how I feel about her as a character. I like her but disagree with her actions and end up wanting to smack her. I love when an author can make me feel all these emotions. It's a testament to her skills as a writer. I recommend this book to anyone who loves vampires. This is a different take on an old tale and it truly does not disappoint.
84794099	This novel would have done well to have large parts of the first half culled. Although the first half is pleasant enough as a travelogue, especially the Eastern European scenery and impressions of Budapest that we are treated to, it soon began to feel tedious and I was pretty bored by the time the book began to pick up again.The last third is the best part of the book, so do try and push through until you get there.The biggest aspect I found to complain about, is that I'd expected a bit more solid history from it, taking in account the title and the premise of the book.I found the few scraps and tidbits the author threw at us about Count Dracul/ Vlad Tepes rather unsatisfying. I'd learned nothing from this book about Vlad that Wikipedia hadn't already told me.I enjoyed the polished, almost Victorian prose, which seemed in character with the setting of the book, though of course not all modern readers enjoy such a detached style.I also rather enjoyed the sub-plot about the protagonist's parents.I'd say the blurb is rather deceptive, though, because exciting, nailbiting stuff this is not.
2394569822	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |What could have been the perfect historical mystery for bibliophiles ended up being an unnecessarily long-winded and frequently dull novel.“Looking up from my work, I suddenly realized that someone had left a book whose spine I had never seen before among my own textbooks, which sat on a shelf above my desk. The spine of this new book showed an elegant little dragon, green on pale leather.”The Historian alludes to a variety of works, sometimes by means of subtle allusions, while in other cases Elizabeth Kostova seems to be emphasise her own novel’s intertextuality, such as its ostensible intertextual relationship to Stoker’s Dracula. While Dracula has come to represent a turning point in vampire literature, hailing it as the ‘original vampire novel’ means disregarding the earlier encounters with vampires of other writers such as Goethe, Byron, Le Fanu, and Polidori. Although the ‘romantic’ and ‘seductive’ vampires populating today’s media don’t seem to owe much to Bram Stoker’s hairy-palmed Dracula, he has become an intrinsic part of vampire culture (if not a synonym of vampirism itself). While vampires are inherently intertextual beings (readers know more or less what to expect when reading a vampire novel) I was hoping that Elizabeth Kostova would not relegate her version of Dracula to the sidelines of her story...which sadly seems to be the case. Kostova, even more than Stoker, pushes Dracula, otherwise known as Vlad Țepeș, to the margins of her narrative.One of the most enjoyable aspects of The Historian is its supernatural ambience and the stylistic strength of Kostova’s writing as she deftly weaves together folklore and history in what is neither a carbon-copy of nor a sequel to Dracula. Kostova’s story is an amalgamation of genres: a work of Gothic that largely relies on the epistolary form, a detective novel that is equal parts adventure, travelogue, and history lesson. Through these various styles Kostova examines the often conflictual relationship between Christian West and the Islamic East.Kostova’s re-elaboration of the myths and stories established by works such as Dracula reflects a divided Europe. She examines themes of immortality, monstrosity, and otherness, against a backdrop of quiet social upheaval. Paul and Helen’s quest to find Dracula/Vlad’s tomb is often impeded by the political atmosphere of the countries they visit. Paul in particular, being American, is regarded with suspicion by these countries' socialist regimes. This added another layer of secretiveness to their ‘adventures’, one that forces them to carry out their true research under a guise.While we do get an overall biography of Vlad Țepeș, the ‘man’ himself does not recount his own experiences, we don’t see from his own point of view. His potential victims inform us of his misdeeds and history...which serve to make Vlad into a rather one-sided character. He is ‘evil’, and that seems to be that. I was expecting a far more nuanced portrayal of vampires and of this infamous historical figure. Terrible people/creatures can still be compelling subjects. Kostova’s novel however does not really allow this vilified figure the chance to speak his truth. I could have understood his motivations without necessarily agreeing with them. Sadly, Vlad seems evil for the sake of being evil. We learn of his monstrous actions but we never truly glimpse the mind behind those brutal deeds. Vlad is evil because of his transgression of the natural order...and that’s it. Vampirism aside Kostova’s depiction of Vlad does not really propose any new ‘reading’ of his rule.While I really appreciated the use of different timelines in Kostova's latest novel, The Shadow Land, here the various storylines were rather uneven: in the 1970s our narrator is a sixteen-year old girl who remains unnamed throughout the course of the novel, her father Paul (his story takes place in the 1950s), and Paul's former mentor, Professor Bartholomew Rossi (most of his letters are dated from the 1930s). Initially I thought that the narrative would mainly switch between Paul and his daughter...so I was rather disappointed to discover that the daughter's story is non-existent. She appears at the beginning of this bulky book and has a few chapters here and there...and that's it. Paul's story is the main focus of the narrative, and sadly I just wasn't all that taken by him or his adventures. Him and Helen definitely travel through interesting cities and places (Turkey, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, France) and I did appreciate Kostova's use of the sublime in these 'travelogue' sections: the way in which the landscapes inspires fear and awe in Paul (these sections reminded me of Ann Radcliffe).Sadly Paul and Helen's journey soon grew rather repetitive and predictable. They always seemed to encounter the right people and the right time which definitely struck me as a too coincidental. While I certainly enjoyed reading of the history of the cities they travel through, I wasn't invested in them or their 'quest'.Perhaps I was hoping for a more emotionally involving story (such as the one in The Shadow Land) but here the characters were largely secondary, if not downright passive, and while there were plenty of opportunities to flesh them out, to give us an impression of their personalities, their 'quest' has far more importance. The 'quest' largely relies on their finding documents or people who know something about Dracula's existence. They gather information slowly, over the course of hundred and hundred of pages. A lot of what they 'discover' wasn't all that surprising...the ending felt anti-climatic to the extreme.Nevertheless, in spite of my not so great opinion of this novel, I did appreciate Kostova's subject matter and her confluence of classicism and romanticism, of logic and emotion, of mysticism and faith. Last but not least, I have always loved descriptions of books and libraries...“Besides, you can tell a great deal from a historian's books.”
73674070	I liked it. It's not really a horror novel, except for those moments when the historians who are the main characters are directly attacked by the ancient evil they're investigating. Instead it's almost like a multi-layered family history of an obsession passed from historian to historian, each one seeking the reality of an impossible idea, that the historic Dracula still lives and does not want the truth about him known. It is a subtle, compelling, intense book, with the stories told by the father's historian mentor, the father, his daughter, her mother, and occasional others. The voices, in tales or letters, keep the quiet tension going. You really don't know you're reading such a lengthy novel--there's no let-up in the suspense.
4344171452	3.5 StarsI really enjoyed the premise and setup of this historical horror novel. It reminded me of what I wanted from the Discovery of Witches.Letters are not my favourite format of storytelling but I understand it is a nod to the novel of Dracula.As a horror reader. I wished this one had leaned more into the horror elements because it reads more like historical fiction than I expected. I loved the start but the second half didn't quite grab me the same way. Or at least, the story chose to focus on the details I felt were a little less interesting.
17022281	Note, 5/24/2012: I originally hid this whole review behind a spoiler alert; but now that Goodreads has a "hide spoiler" feature, I decided to use that, and take the part of the review that isn't a spoiler out of hiding. If Kostova had ended this homage to the original Dracula without the epilogue, she would have created the greatest vampire novel of all time. There is much to admire here: the depth and scope of the plotting, the superb characterizations, the skillful way the author emulates Stoker's own epistolary style and the resonance that comes from extending it across three generations, the sumptuous, detail-laden prose style with descriptions of foreign locales that obviously come from someone who's been there. Being a librarian, I particularly appreciate the emphasis on library and archival research (since the hunters here are hunting the resting place of a 500-year - old vampire). This fictional research obviously echoes a huge amount of actual authorial research that enriches the novel. I appreciated the absence of illicit sex, and the minimization of blood and gore. Christian elements are not stressed here as clearly as in Stoker's original, but they're present: several main characters are religious skeptics --but they still make use of crucifixes and holy water. My emotions were very compellingly engaged by the novel practically from the get-go, and the final chapter would have made an absolutely super finale.(view spoiler)[Instead, Kostova tacks on a epilogue which, though ambiguous, almost certainly expresses the idea that Dracula didn't die and can't be killed no matter what you do. The stark moral pessimism and defeatism of that view wholly negates the triumph of the last chapter; and it is also, I submit, a breach of the traditional conventions of vampire lore --part of that lore is how vampires are killed, and I don't think just assuming that it doesn't work demonstrates authorial discipline. Without the epilogue, I'd have rated the book with four or five stars. (hide spoiler)]
2445278506	Не бих казала, че сюжетът на " Историкът" е кой знае какво-тривиална вампирска драма с исторически елементи-, но пък начинът, по който пише Елизабет Костова, езикът ѝ, е очарователен и пленителен. Точно по тази причина реших да прочета докрай книгата- заради удоволствието да чета красивия и хармоничен изказ на авторката.Елизабет Костова ни показва една различна перспектива на историята на Влад Цепеш и го прави по много увлекателен начин.Прочетох доста негативни мнения за книгата, с които аз лично не мога да се съглася изцяло. Историята прикова интереса ми, не заради до болка познатите версии за Дракула, а заради мистериозния, вълнуващ и приключенски начин, по който е разказана...Но...Повествованието е малко по- протяжно и разтеглено, отколкото е необходимо, което дотяга на моменти. Небрежно и донякъде нескопосано подхвърлените в отделни части вампирски доказателства, стояха доста повърхностно и неубедително. Историята започна сравнително интригуващо, но след това се развиваше на приливи и отливи. Имаше части, в които препусках с трескав интерес през страниците, и такива, които се проточваха отегчително. Историческите факти бяха много умело включени в повествованието. "Историкът" е конструирана изключително вълнуващо, подобно на матрьошка- няколко истории, вкарани една в друга. Въпреки излишното разводняване на сюжета, като цяло "Историкът" ми допадна много. Елизабет Костова пише толкова трогателно, че си затварям очите за всички неща, които не са ми били точно по вкуса. Оценката за мен е около 3.5, но този път закръглям в полза на 4 :))
2247920883	I am freaked out by how much I love this book. It’s an old-fashioned, can’t-turn-the-pages-fast-enough swashbuckler told through letters, diary entries, postcards, and reminiscences. It combines history, romance, adventure, and an abiding love of books – and there are secrets among secrets among secrets. Deliciously mysterious! Much of the action takes place in libraries and on trains… and the characters travel to mysterious locales – Turkey, Romania, Hungary – to determine if Vlad was really a vampire. The travel descriptions are so evocative, it makes me want to write lengthy letters home from a train somewhere with foreign accents.This was my third or fourth time reading The Historian, and I thoroughly enjoyed it again. I recently took a trip to Budapest, and it was really fun to read about the places I'd just visited. I was also moved even more than usual by the tenderness and sorrow of some of the scenes... and I'm pretty sure that I just talked two of my favorite people into reading it, too.
1750071050	Upon rereading this, I took a star away, as for me this truly warrants a one star review. The Historian is a long winded slog that is a terrible mystery/vampire novel, a decent travelogue of 1970s Eastern Europe, and borrows the method of Dracula without nearing any of that book's execution. I'm into long winded tales, I'm into books set in the past, I'm into books about books, and characters as scholars or playing at scholars: Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell is one of my all time favorite books, and if I'm after a "smart" guilty pleasure I'll still enjoy picking up The Club Dumas. So this should totally be in my wheelhouse, but it was honestly even more of a chore the second time around.First the good: Kostova did a lot of research and travel to the places in her novel and it shows. The sense of place as we hop round Europe is quite good, especially with regard to Istanbul, Budapest, and Romania. Kostova has nice attention to detail for the travelogue oriented parts, and here, that detail is necessary, lends itself to establishing atmosphere and scene, and is altogether welcome and accomplished.That's all I've got for the good. Now for the frustrating, infuriating, weak and downright dull parts.First problem: the first narrator is entirely pointless. She has no personality to speak of, and has very little page time. Her entire reason for being is to ask her father questions, and then read from his series of letters. She has a few moments of action near the end but she herself does nothing in those moments. You care nothing about her, indeed you almost forget she exists, how little she is seen or heard versus the letters/conversations of her father, and because Kostova pretty much has one voice for all of the characters, she is entirely unmemorable. This leads to another two part downfall of the book: switching between multiple pasts with little payoff, and poorly using an epistolary format throughout. Because the first narrator is more or less pointless, the entire timeline of her past (because she is writing from the present to describe her past encounter that mostly describes her father's past) means very little to the reader. The portion that we care to read is Paul's past, his research and journeys and trials and tribulations shared with Helen. Paul and especially Helen are far more compelling characters. The third last we get is Rossi's, which informs Paul and Helen in their past as they piece together clues and facts. I could deal with this, but the problem is we are supposed to be gathering all this through letters that Paul has provided his nameless daughter. But the long winded prose and sentences, the extra details in what should be moments of action or fear don't fit at all with letter writing. Kostova cannot use the epistolary format authentically, and doesn't seem to care that the reader will find the set up unbelievable. And because how Paul writes letters sounds like how the narrator talks (and sounds like Rossi's letters as well), I found it that much harder to swallow, especially after reading Stoker's take so recently and how well he was able to pull it off, and be true to character voices AND to making a letter sound like a letter.If Kostova had excised the unnecessary first narrator, and removed the epistolary format, and centered the narrative around Paul and Helen with the flashbacks/letters of Rossi, the book probably would have been two stars for me. But it would still only go up a star because...(view spoiler)[ DRACULA IS BARELY IN IT AND HIS ROLE AND MOTIVATIONS ARE ASININE. (hide spoiler)]It is not good that the research and scholarship of Dracula is far more interesting than the character itself once he finally arrives. And what good is it to give us such rich history of Vlad Tepes/Vlad Dracul, the Order of the Dragon and the secret knights of the Sultan opposed to him for all eternity, his cults, folklore, songs, if it comes to naught in creating a worthwhile, significant character when he appears in the flesh on the page? The idea of (and fear and pursuit of) Dracula is far better than Dracula himself, which is entirely a let down and very deflating. And what is Dracula's master plan? What is his motivation behind leaving creepy little books as calling cards and having his fiendish flunkies kill cats and third tier side characters? Why have these historians been toiling and pursuing him? (view spoiler)[ Because he needs an expert librarian to catalogue his extensive, ancient library. That's it. DRACULA WANTS A PERSONAL LIBRARIAN (Oh and take over the world of course, but we're told little about that.) (hide spoiler)] And I thought Stoker's Dracula was absent, but at least he built the horror and tension needed to believe in his cruelty and malice. Here we are told in letters and research about young Vlad Dracul's impaling oriented exploits, but its all undone by the dry, overstuffed language of the discoveries and the absence of any impaler like activities in the main narrative (Paul's daughter and Paul's). Why even be Vlad the Impaler if he never impales anyone??? Kostova's Dracula is entirely neutered when he appears on page, and ultimately undoes any charm or creativity about the historical research into the background of Dracula.If I felt the climax of Stoker's Dracula was a bit weak, the climax to The Historian for all intents and purposes does not exist, that's how bad / short / stupid / unsatisfying it was for me. Not to be overly crude, but if I was going to suffer through all Kostova's masturbatory prose and poor execution (with a side of mice travelogue), I was expecting one hell of a climax at the end, some reason for reading this. But there's no pay off, there's no there there. Fortunately I will never need to read this book again: it's two readings too many as it is.
1389518451	A wild ride of a book even though it concerns itself mostly with the topic of historical research, the subject of which makes all the difference. We travel from Holland to England, France, Greece, New England, Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, and back again, we travel in the past and present, we see various points of view...a rich, complex story. Highly recommended. Be prepared to take some time for the journey.
4434664	I picked up 'The Historian' because of the intriguing cover, the interesting plot description, and the promise of dark themes. The first page gripped me instantly and from then on I was hooked. I couldn't bear to put the book down and stayed up many nights devouring chapter after chapter. It is one of those books that sucks you in completely; I found myself thinking about the characters, plot and settings constantly, thoroughly absorbed in the book's thrilling world.The book begins with an account of a young girl's discovery of some mysterious letters in her father's study, but it folds out into three different stories - that of her father's search for his missing university professor, the professor's own tale, and the girl's subsequent search for her father when he, too, vanishes under strange circumstances. The plot is split into three tangents, taking place in different eras, each carefully and expertly entwined with the others. Kostova handles the complex narrative expertly, never letting it become confusing. To say too much about what happens might spoil the prospective reader's enjoyment of the book, but it's basically a loose reworking of Dracula - an intelligent mystery spanning centuries, with a dark, arcane heart.Kostova's writing is nothing short of brilliant; stylistically, it reminds me of Donna Tartt's equally stunning The Secret History. Her descriptions are rich and evocative, and her detailed written portraits of the many places the characters visit means the book works as a historical travelogue as much as it does a supernatural mystery; and in turn, its cerebral nature makes the supernatural elements all the more believable. The characters are beautifully drawn and always believable. Nothing about the book disappointed me; it is continually exciting, fast-paced, mysterious, academic (but never dry), and full of unexpected twists, turns and detours.'The Historian' is so well-written and fantastically involving that I know I will read it time and time again. In my opinion, it deserves to become a classic and can easily be ranked alongside Stoker's original 'Dracula' - and as this is Kostova's debut, I can't wait to see what she does next.
199122309	Enjoyed this reread very much. Still one of my favorite books. I was thrilled to travel with Paul and Helen. Would I, lover of books and history, have been able to withstand the invitation given to Bartholomew Rossi? What would Vlad have made of Twitter and Facebook...and Goodreads? Oddly, I have not been able to enter either of Kostova's other novels, but this one, for me, is perfect.
4472615461	A beautiful velveteen bag of word syrup. Bit boring in the middle but overall, it tickled my fancy very much.
4373028862	ABANDONADO AL 45%Después de 320 páginas tengo la sensación de que no hemos avanzado nada. Un libro misterioso que está relacionado con Drácula, el antiguo gobernante Vlad Tepes de Valaquia, una desaparición, persecuciones, historia... Y todo eso, ¿para qué? Para NADA. Tras asentar las bases de la historia se supone que empieza el viaje de aventuras y misterio en el que se embarcarán los personajes. Más bien van dando tumbos casi sin ton ni son. Se da muchas muchas vueltas a la misma idea y hay sucesos que no llevan a nada. De la trama de la hija ya ni hablamos, a veces la autora se acuerda de ella y es solo para decirte que ahí sigue con su misión, que está de viaje pero ya. La cantidad de coincidencias es excesiva, hay tantas que el viaje de descubrimiento es absurdo. Apenas hacen descubrimientos los protagonistas por sí mismos, todo se lo dan en bandeja de plata por obra y gracia del espíritu santo, y además los descubrimientos tampoco llevan a nada. No hay encadenación entre ideas ni deducciones, todo es "Oh, este documento está relacionado con nuestro objetivo o con el profesor Rossi. ¡Es importante!" pero ya está, no sacan nada de ahí. O cosas del tipo "Vlad estuvo en tal ciudad y fue un gran enemigo del sultán Mehmet II, y puede que esté enterrado aquí. También hizo cosas horribles como empalar gente", y toda la información sobre Vlad Tepes, ¿PARA QUÉ? Un montón de datos históricos sin venir a cuento.También me ha sacado de quicio el hecho de que llamamos a Drácula de un montón de formas diferentes y ninguna se termina de asentar. Y Béla Lugosi no pinta nada aquí, si estamos hablando del auténtico hombre que inspiró Drácula el actor Lugosi aquí no hace nada. Que es un hombre icónico del cine y la encarnación del mítico vampiro en la industria sí, pero no aporta a la trama.Y los personajes tienen menos gracia que una ensalada sin aliñar.No digo yo que al final todo tenga sentido y encaje, pero no puedo esperar 700 páginas para descubrirlo.
1265502408	3.5/5.Finishing this book kind of felt like finishing a marathon (not that I’d know what finishing a marathon actually feels like haha). I did enjoy this book overall, but reading it sometimes felt like chore (which it kind of was, because I read it for class). Only very few books actually need to be over 800 pages long and this definitely wasn‘t that book. It was very well written, but too descriptive at some points and a couple of turns and twists the story took could've honestly just been cut entirely. I read that Kostova wanted to write a "serious novel" akin to the (also often overly long) Victorian novels, but it felt too laboured in this case.Overall, The Historian is less of a traditional supernatural vampire story, but rather focuses on how evil (of the supernatural and human kind) pervades history and becomes "immortal" in some cases. It's a book for history nerds (which I wouldn't necessarily consider myself to be) and lovers of old books and libraries (which I definitely consider myself to be). In fact, every character in this book (including the ominous "Vlad the Impaler" himself) is obsessed with books, manuscripts, archives, libraries and all sorts of recordings of history. The novel plays with multiple narrational perspectives, blurs different narrative timelines and narrative techniques together, telling the story partly through letters and descriptions of manuscripts. It very much reads like a quest story that takes the characters and the reader to various East European cities and into countless archives and libraries, making it a very immersive read.If you're interested in a new and original view on the legend of Dracula or in a book devoted to interesting ideas on historiography and the process of "writing and rewriting" history (and you're in the mood for a rather lengthy read!), then I'd say give this a shot!
3135799	Don't let the 2 star rating fool you - I would still recommend this book for fun. POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD.It strikes me that scholars and graduate students (even sexier!) are now the go-to heroes for this continuing genre of suspenseful historical/mystery/magic quests. Da Vinci Code blah blah blah. That's right, to save the world, one must be a careful reader, and in this book, it struck me as especially humorous that in his infinite evil, Dracula infiltrates the minds of those who can truly commit nefarious deeds: They will rip cards out of the card catalogue! They will confiscate your library privileges! They will you stop you from, gasp, reading! In short, they will stop you from entering the dangerous world of nerddom, you nerd. And if you should succumb in your valiant scholarly efforts, beware.....or you might become.....A LIBRARIAN IN HELL. Yes, indeed, a fate worse than death.So Dracula tries to lure the most promising scholars to him, as what he as always desired, above even power and awe, is a well-catalogued library of rare documents? So he distributes books to said scholars, warns them copiously when they *do* attempt to follow these clues to their logical conclusion, but then secretly desires them to find his lair anyway? So that he can then freak out and move it? He both covets and resists their cleverness? Doesn't quite sit right with me as the "grand reveal." Just read the Stoker classic! Sooo delightful, far more blood-curdling, far more intriguing to probe for deeper symbolism. This Dracula seems fairly bland in comparison, as do its principal characters.I can only hope that although I am not a historian, nor pursuing a PhD, there may be room for a toiling MFA student in one of these labyrinthine plots."I can't make it out," she said, squinting at the closely-typed pages, hand trembling. A line of concentration appeared in her forehead. "Wait! I think - I think it says that I must write a two-page scene where one character expounds entirely in monologue! Damn you, you diabolical genius, damn you!"Perhaps the evil genius of myth will cultivate an interest in the literary arts? Can't wait.
2113372463	Nici cinșpe mii de recenzii nu cred că m-ar fi pregătit pentru acest montagne-russe de idei, senzații și emoții pe care le-am întâlnit în cartea asta! Înainte de toate, vă spun atât: a fost o carte MIȘTO! Mi-a luat aproape 2 luni s-o citesc, dar nu regret nicio secundă. Mi-era dor rău de tot să mă mai cufund într-o poveste aparent interminabilă, plină de suspans, de mister, de intrigă și... de istorie. Pentru că da, „Colecționarul de istorie” mi-a creat o poftă aproape viscerală să vizitez și eu Hagia Sofia, dar mai ales să reiau în vizor romanele cu tentă istorică. Mi-a redeschis apetitul pentru ele, iar Elizabeth Kostova are toate mulțumirile mele pentru acest lucru!Apoi, nu pot să nu spun că nu m-aș fi așteptat deloc ca elementul supranatural să fie atât de pregnant în acest roman care, în aparență, e de un interes pur istoric. Iarăși, Kostova a făcut o treabă excelentă din îmbinarea unor elemente aparent incompatibile, dar care luate împreună dau chiar foarte bine. Dracula este mai mult decât o legendă, mai mult decât un mister, mai mult decât un...vampir. Kostova l-a adus la viață într-un mod unic, căruia cu greu îi poți găsi un defect. Povestea este adevărată, și totuși nu este adevărată. Granița dintre real și ireal este spulberată complet, astfel că trebuie să citești cartea fără dubii, fără întrebări. Vei lua lucrurile ca atare, iar totul va fi așa cum trebuie. Ce pot spune altceva... Personajele au fost foarte bine conturate, povestea a decurs fără poticniri, iar misterul m-a ținut în suspans până la sfârșit de tot. Kostova își plimbă cititorii prin 4 decenii diferite, prin 5 țări diferite (SUA, Anglia, Turcia, Ungaria și Bulgaria) și printr-un adevărat caleidoscop de emoții. Dacă nu este clar deja, recomand din toată inima „Colecționarul de istorie”! Iubitorilor de istorie, și nu numai.
2565084299	Actual Rating: 2.75/5I randomly found this book on a list of horror books to read in October and Scribd happened to have it on audio, so I gave it a go. It’s extremely long and slow, but I didn’t mind that. The audiobook has a full cast, which I think adds a lot of intrigue to the story. This book is told in letters and I think without the full cast it might’ve been hard to tell who was talking. In general, I think physically reading this book might be a painful endeavor due to the slow pace. For me, this book was just okay. I’d recommend this for someone who really enjoys the mythology of Dracula.
5037992935	Історія є історія, а часом історія в історії, що знаходиться в історії. Роман об’ємний, роман атмосферний, роман пропрацьований - я мушу віддати належне. Але. Водночас це було малозахопливе, повільне читання, яким був для мене колись і роман Стокера. З плюсів і мінусів водночас, в книзі забагато подорожей. Якщо це місця, в яких я особисто бувала і де чимало описів мені знайомі, як Стамбул чи Будапешт, то це плюс, якщо ж ні, то мінус. Саме читаючи цей роман, я усвідомила, що часи, коли я з захопленням читала тревелоги інших людей, що мати змогу хоча б їхніми очима подивитися на далекі країни, минули. Тепер мені значно цікавіше скласти спочатку своє враження.п.с. Я не готова приймати слово «мітелка» в свій вокабуляр.
2250829178	Ova knjiga ima sve što volim : povijest, mračnu priču, putovanja kroz divne zemlje... zaista, svi ti elementi zvuče sjajno i pozivaju na čitanje, ali živote moj, jedva sam preživjela ovih 630 i nešto stranica, a da ne vrištim ili nešto slično.Količina nelogičnosti u ovoj knjizi zapanjujuća je zaista. Samo jedan od primjera je pismo njenog oca koje je napisao u žurbi, a pismo se proteže na više od 50 stranica knjige ili svi ti divni , simpatični i dobri likovi, slatki povjesničari, svi redom divna srca koji traže Drakulu . Mogla bi spomenuti još toga, ali nema smisla, izgurala sam ovu knjigu do kraja, ponosim se sobom. Dvije zvjezdice samo zbog vrlo lijepog stila pisanja i truda oko istraživanja povijesne građe.
1975469429	Read it when it first came out in 2005. Thought it was kinda bland. Second read through and I was hooked. Super DOPE
128426997	Meandering, slogging, hair-pulling, mess of a read. The Da Vinci code on crack-cocaine. This book needs to lose some weight. The book started off paced really well but quickly lost steam. The SLLLOOOWWW build up dies in the arms of the final pages, thankfully. By the end of this novel? historical fiction? university dissertation on the Ottoman invasion of the Byzantine empire as seen through the eyes of Dracula enthusiasts? I was ready to be staked through the heart. The one good point was that if you are a fan of the vampire genre then you will be taught (thoroughly) on the legend of the man that started it all.
1889631	What if Vlad Ţepeş, Prince of Wallachia and the inspiration for Bram Stoker's Dracula, really was a vampire? Elizabeth Kostova's The Historian explores this question, following three different characters: in the 1930s, Bartholomew Rossi, an English professor, in the 1950s, his protégé Paul, and in the 1970s, Paul's unnamed daughter. Mysterious books and Rossi's disappearance spark a hunt for Dracula's tomb that crisscrosses Europe and lets Kostova use a buttload of historical and geographical research.Kostova brings Eastern Europe to life in a way I've never seen even attempted in fiction before. From cities such as Istanbul and Budapest, to tiny villages in Romania, the author describes the sights, sounds, people, politics, and culture with such intensity that I could picture it and suddenly had an extremely strong desire to see it all myself. Without this element, the book would have been much less interesting.The plot is as intriguing as the setting; despite being spread out over 40 years, there's a sense of urgency coupled with extreme creepiness that drives the story forward. As the characters get closer to discovering Dracula's secrets, they're warned off in violent ways. The story moves between all three time periods effortlessly and clearly. It's a more cerebral DaVinci Code, and the author seems to champion using the past for guidance on how to handle the present.The book's only weakness is its ending; without revealing much, all I could think was, "What? That's IT? THAT'S why?" It folds nicely into the historical themes, but seems to be at odds with the direness that propelled the plot. A brief explanation was given for this, but it just seemed lame. If anyone wants to counter on me this, I welcome it, since I'm dying to find reasons to consider the ending just as wonderful as the rest of the book.Heartily recommended.
641386485	One of my most cherished and adored novels, I don't care how many milions of negative reviews I come across! I adore everything about it, its heroes have become like best friends of mine, I plan on reading and re-reading it for the coming decades - God willing.
234715943	I've read Bram Stoker's book ‘Dracula’ many many times simply because I adore the style. Elizabeth Kostova has captured the tone of ‘Dracula’ to perfection in her book, ‘The Historian’. If a book could have progeny, then ‘The Historian’ is Stoker's book’s grandchild. ‘The Historian’ is very long, and I loved every word of it. I am aware of the haters, and I concede most of their complaints. I don't care. I liked it. It is a wonderful book, true to the spirit of Stoker's Dracula, with embellishments. The Stoker's book ‘Dracula’ was all about Victorian middle-class society with intense secret dreads and fears, dark folk tales, wolves in the night, respectable and repressed deep emotions with strict social mores and above all epistles. It was formal and 'correct', and very late 19th century atmosphere - fog, creepy cities and lonely villages, full of quasi-scientific and academic quality reasoning and research into vague, barely understood new discoveries. While ‘The Historian’ is obviously a copy of Stoker's style (in my opinion, a virtuoso performance by Kostova), it veers into the world of university professors, specifically history scholars, who use librarian research methods and scientific doctrines in order to discover and solve mysteries from centuries in the past. This particular search is given horror-driven impetus due to Dracula being its subject, and as the story progresses, severe danger to our heroes. The horrors of living under Communism, which is clearly a noir existence even when benign, is touched upon in passing. The horrors of the Ottoman Empire in warfare as well as of the eastern European autocrat leadership are equally exposed, too. Eastern European Communism had a rather horrific parentage too.Even though the action of 'The Historian' passes through many countries, many types of letters and manuscripts, several point-of-view narrators and many time-lines, I was always enthralled and eager to follow the paper trail these brave civilian academic characters set into epistles in true historian/librarian professional research methodology. They heroically seek the most dastardly evil monster that ever walked for 500 years! (sound of heart beating slowly and darkly, which come to think of it, actually should be the short description of this book) : )
30271583	I can't believe I read the whole thing. I mean, I really can't believe I read the whole thing. 679 pages of sheer boredom, style over substance. It didn't even pick up until around page 500. (It went from a snail's pace to a turtle's pace.) Dracula, the guy everyone is looking for, doesn't show up until somewhere around page 600. When he does show up, he is a total bore. How on earth can one make Dracula boring? This whole story could have filled 300 pages and been much more engaging and exciting.The only reason I gave "The Historian" two stars instead of one is that Kostova did a fine job of research, had plenty of atmosphere and clearly showed some fine craftsmanship with the English language. Like I said, it was style over substance._____________________________________________________Added one star on 1/9/10. After reading Dracula The Un-Dead, this book seems much improved.
27004822	I adored this ambitious and astonishing travelogue cum thriller. I never thought I'd recommend a novel that featured vampires, but this story treats the myth with a tremendous respect for Central European history. The plots twists are ripe with suspense, the sub-quest of a daughter seeking her own identity in the story of her mother is tender and rang true. After Dan Brown's cheap and laughable thrills, it was heartening to witness the success of this novel. Kostova has respect for her audience and for history- I can't wait to read what she next delivers!
61494723	** spoiler alert ** I finished. I did not let it beat me! As I was trying to give the gist to Darkk he said "So, like 'National Treasure', but with vampires." "Sort of," I said, "but not as entertaining." (Which is bad enough, since I sort of liked 'National Treasure' despite myself.)**Mild Spoilage throughout**Anyway - where to start? First and foremost, it was so slow and tedious. Endless details about architecture and food and what someone was wearing, and what arm they had their purse on. If this wasn't absurd enough in and of itself, these minutae are presented to us in letters supposedly written in haste, 20+ years after the events took place!And then there was the bouncing back and forth in timeframes - and once something started to get interestinh with Helen and Paul, we would jump into what I started thinking of as "the present", for no real reason! As I mentioned it to Darkk he was like "it's like a commercial break", and that's exactly what it felt like. The characters were paper thin, and all the letters were written in the same voice. If they didn't have the little tell-tale signs to know who was speaking, you'd have no way of knowing them apart.And the romances! No real lead up or development, but in three days a sheltered village girl is sleeping with some random dude, a 16 year old, also sheltered girl, is getting hot and heavy with a college boy... and in 23 days Paul and Helen are engaged to be married. I mean, really? If I believed the romances at all, I might've felt more for the characters, but I didn't, and I don't.And the coincidences. Let's sit in this random cafe and just happen to have some guy, who just happens to have also received a book, start talking to us for no reason, and we can all find out we're all part of the same hunt. Or, let's talk to the only other native-English person at a conference, and find out that he's involved, too! Oh, what are the odds? Heck, even the characters seemed distrustful of these coincidences... And the reasoning. **MAJOR SPOILERS**This whole thing - all this drama and people being warned and disappearing and being attacked - all because Dracula can't organize his own damn library? Really!? That's what you're giving me?I actually quite liked the scholarly, aristocratic Vlad. Since Kostova gives him such a bad shake throughout the book, as he's nothing but "the fiend" and "the evil", I quite liked the quiet, almost debonair Dracula. The fact that the whole purpose of the thing so stupid, though, was just a little annoying, especially after slogging through hundreds of pages of pointless minutae to get there.Not to mention so easy to kill. My gods, was that last confrontation anti-climactic, or what? Of course, as we find in the epilogue, is it really 'the end'? Dum-bum-bum!**/SPOILERS**So, some people who liked it say, "Well, it's about 'historians' - what did you expect?" Well, considering that the back of the book said it was "sinister and suspensful" and "exciting and will keep readers enthralled", I didn't expect to be monumentally bored through most of the book. I would also expect to be a little bit enthralled, excited, or have some vague feeling of suspense. Nadda.Perhaps part of this is because it's all told in past tense. We have no fear for the daughter or the father. We pretty much can guess how Rossi's gonna end up. And we don't care enough about Helen, or, well, anyone, really.I was also irritated that while Paul will give begrudging respect to the Ottomans for their strange mix of barbarism and aesthetics, they give no such equal treatment to Vlad. Even going as far back as the 1800s, there have been different depictions of the reign of Vlad Tepes - sadistic tyrant or horrific hero. In present day Romania he is a folk-hero. He sided with them against the Saxon merchants who taxes them heavily, and he defended them and the land from the invading Turks. Yes, he was brutal - but the story glosses over the fact that he learned his brutality from his imprisonment with the Turks.There are some who argue that the pamphlets so heavily referenced in the book of his barbarism are propaganda - things written by his enemies to paint him in the grimmest light possible, overstating his barbarism.And the Garden of the Impaled (which happened once in recorded history - not the common occurrence the book suggests it was) was a stroke of tactical genius. Here he is, his little army severally outnumbered by the encroaching Turks, and then up goes the Garden, made of predominantly Turkish prisoners-of-war. The Turks, already battle weary from getting as far as Targoviste, are horrified are the brutality of it. Oh, yes, it was brutal, make no mistake. But it was also a brilliant tactic - a use of psychological warfare.And, yes, the boyars hated him. But the book makes it out that he was hated because of his brutality - and he didn't exactly treat them well. He did kill many and put the rest to hard work, which killed them. The book glosses over the fact that these people buried his elder brother alive, and he was getting his revenge while securing his position. It also doesn't mention that one reason the boyars hated him is because he tried to give more power to the peasant, and less economic adventage to the boyars.Oh, yes, I know - he's the master villian of the story... you can't paint him at all sympathetic. You can't see him as anything less than a tyrant. Many have said that even if the story is long, the history is interesting - but how much more interesting is the strange dichotomy of this brutal, cunning, and oft-times charitable man?Also, speaking of history, there is much emphasis placed on the Fall of Constantinople to the Turks; however, the story, once again, glosses over the fact that Constantinople was at less than its height during the Seige because the Sacking that took place some too hundred years prior during the Fourth Crusade, in which the Latin Church overthrew the Orthodox church and took over. Some sources even argue that the Byzantine peasantry was just as happy losing their political independence to the Ottoman Empire because at least then they got to keep their religious obsevances - something not so leniently granted by the Holy See. Ironic that the Turks would be kinder to them than their Christian brethren, no?But we get no taste for the complicated politics in the book.We also get a glimpse of non-existence ruins on Snagov - which is a tiny spit of an islet. Pretty place, to be sure, but I can find no record of there ever having been a prison there, so I'm not sure where that came from.So to those who say "but the history is interesting", I suggest actually reading up on the history, because I'm not sure you can really trust this book as an accurate source. That is, after all, why it's called historical fiction.**I would say it got more readable towards the end, but I'm not sure if that's because I walked away from it for awhile or not. I was also rather annoyed at how this whole thing was about finding Drac and Helen, and then once everything's tied up in a neat little package, and you don't really care who has died and who has lived, and who will die. I mean, the narrator hardly seems to care when she rather blasely drops some information to come, so why should we?**The only reason I'm giving it two stars instead of one is because I still do think the premise was interesting, even if the execution was terribly boring, and I did quite like the portrayal of the scholarly Dracula, if not his lame motivations.This is one book that might actually be improved on when it gets turned into a movie. Since one of the things that bogged the book down was all the travelogue details, the movie could certainly become much better paced. Hopefully they'll also change it around so that it's told more in present tense, and maybe actually raise the stakes a little (i.e. create suspense) and make you care about the characters some. (In my opinion, they could actually drop the whole daughter part of the story. They could make it a present-tense story of Paul and Helen searching for Rossi and Dracula, interweave Rossi's tale, and cut out the parts with the daughter entirely, since it didn't really add anything to the story to have the three different threads going on at the same time.)
2266336713	The beginning of the The Historian is truly fascinating! I love mysteries that have travel in them. In any case, I don't think the author knows it, but in actuality she isn't talking about Vlad, she is talking about Antichrist. She keeps mentioning the Quran and stories in the Ottoman empire, an Island where he is imprisoned. The truth is, she is talking about an actual person we know, but the foreigners do not, they have their legends, but not the truth.I keep imaging Cate Blanchett as Helen. I can't help it.The tone of admiration the author has for Vlad is really sicking and giving me a headache. It just proves to me that the west and east will never meet. His own brother and people hated him, she gives him reasons and validation as if he's a wronged hero while in fact he's a sick, physcotic tyrant who I'm so glad was beheaded by the Ottoman empire. As a person who loves history I will address the author with this idea for her to bounder. Christians brought all kinds of evil throughout history on any land they inhabited. When the Muslim nation did inhabit their lands, they moved from their era of darkness... do you think that's a coincidence? The best thing that ever happened to the west was us. It removed people like Vlad and broke the power of the church which killed and destroyed many people and lands according to religion and color. We Muslims didn't do that, no matter what your history books say and to prove it, ALL the historical places in both our lands and yours are still reserved, because we as Muslims don't believe in killing locals, or burning or destroying buildings and lands. Islam brought stability and growth in every land they inhabited. Don't read history from one source and call yourself a scholar. All people from different religion live in peace in our lands and between us.As for the ending, it was disappointing, I thought the daughter will play a huger part, I wanted the whole Mina charm of Stoker's Dracula, but it was missing, it's like the author was afraid to create a romance (other than Helen and the father), she talks extensively about the weather, travels, food and scholars and their books. A man like Vlad can't be educated let alone be sane (don't let me start talking about the creepy library). They say Hitler was the worst, I have to disagree.
1277460082	I got to page 150 and threw the book away. When you find yourself choosing to watch WWE with the kids instead of turning another page of a book then you know it is time to throw in the towel. And incidentally, just when did WWE turn into Duck Dynasty?At first I really liked the descriptive elements, the author really brings the castles and fortresses of eastern Europe to life with her exquisitely minute detail. But, after a while it gets very samey. Seen one castle, seen ‘em all.The story is told from two points of view, our unnamed female narrator and that of her father. The problem is, both voices are identical and it gets a little confusing at times working out who is speaking. We know also that the father is called Paul, but not the name of his daughter which had the effect of dehumanising her, and I found I couldn’t care less about her.The story unfolds very slowly and the author tries to build up a sense of suspense and impending horror, but after a few more pages and we are back on yet another castle visit, I found I had forgotten about the horror element and lost that suspense. I just wanted to scream at her to get on with the story. Maybe if it ends up on an A level syllabus I will try and read an abridged version, but only if I have forgotten just how incredibly dull, plodding and tedious this read is.
74060149	I really need to give a reason that this book received such a low rating from me. First, I want to say that the majority of the book was amazing. It was mysterious, and the descriptions were vivid. the author pulled me totally into this story. This book is over 700 pages and I rushed through it to find out what the great mystery was...only to be disappointed by a silly and rushed ending. I felt so robbed that I was tempted to throw this massive book but knew it would do a great deal of damage. I feel like the author just grew weary of her story, and finding no convenient way to end the book, she just kinda stopped. :) The mysterious reason for the entire story, the tension building clue that was sought after in Turkey and Romania (described in such great detail that I feel that I have been there) was so ridiculous to be absurd. My mouth fell open when the truth was revealed for the evil, dastardly plan of an ages old vampire was so innocuous as to be a blasphemy against the dracula myth.
6528933969	4.0 ⭐️Elizabeth Kostova wrote The Historian while studying at The University of Michigan and took ten years to complete her debut novel.The Historian is written in epistolary format as a historical fiction with darkly gothic, Victorian prose. The novel is based upon Bram Stoker’s Dracula and includes a lot of background context on Vlad Tepes, “The Impaler”. The novel traverses the globe from Amsterdam to Istanbul and Philadelphia with our narrators, Helen and Paul Rossi. This epic novel spans several generations from the 1930’s through 2008. A common theme throughout the story is religious conflict, primarily between Christianity and Islam and the effects upon society.The narrator believes Dracula is still alive and sequestered in a subterranean lair library where he studies scholarly pursuits. The book is essentially a pursuit of evidence. I found it a fun spin on the dark academia and vampire genres.
2446303215	Superba carte, povestea te arunca pur si simplu din prezent in perioada in care tanarul profesor Rossi a venit in contact cu cartea Drakulya, o carte misterioasa care incearca sa il faca pe cititor sa gaseasca barlogul lui Dracula. Fascinant scrisa!
7009089489	Като дете не можех да гледам ужаси на филм. Криех се зад креслото, за огромен бяс на баща ми и за огромно забавление на майка ми. Толкова се бях специализирала, че те даже не усещаха кога съм се измъкнала… Не че по него време даваха истински “хорър”, но тук тамѐ се промъкваше по някоя страшничка сцена. Реших да се “излекувам” като отидох на кино. Филмът беше за Дракула - тлъсти снопове пляскащи с криле подплашени прилепи, оголени кучешки зъби с остротата на скалпел, зловещи прашасали крипти и хубава мацка с оголена шия. И взе, че ми хареса (а и салонът беше пълен, нямаше място за бягство). И досега не мога нито да чета, нито да гледам хорър. Но пък харесвам Дракула!Елизабет Костова не е добавила нещо кой знае какво за влашкия кръволок с феодална власт, но пък е описала напоително едно дълго пътешествие из куп живописни кътчета на Европа през 30-те, 50-те и 70-те години. Протяжността често навява безметежност, а и повечето приключения са симпатични (само библиотеките ми дойдоха в повече!). Естествено, прекалила е с бавното темпо, количеството страници и умишленото задържане на действието. Героите също далеч не са някакви уникално завладяващи индивидуалности. Има нещо леко джеймс бондовско в перипетиите им, само дето няма мартини, а малко разлютени вампири и обилно количество страховити легенди и измислици, размесени с псевдоисторически доклади и бележки по друмищата от Албиона до Истанбул. Така че - с прескок тук-там - си е съвсем приличен трилър с любопитни пътеписи и съвсем малко кръвчица, добро предколедно неангажиращо преживяване.2,5⭐️———— "... ние, историците, се интересуваме от неща, които донякъде са отражение на собственото ни аз, може би дори част от нас - част, която не бихме посмели да проучим извън царството на науката."
