4252478785	ARC provided by the publisher—Saga Press—in exchange for an honest review. This is not an exaggeration. The Will of the Many by James Islington is the best fantasy book with a magical school trope I’ve ever read since The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss. “The power to protect is the highest of responsibilities… When a man is given it, his duty is not only to the people he thinks are worthy.” James Islington instantly became one of my favorite authors with The Licanius Trilogy. Since then, I knew I would need to read every new book written by him, and that's why The Will of the Many, together with Light Bringer by Pierce Brown and the four secret novels by Brandon Sanderson, reached the top of my most anticipated releases of this year. It's not a good habit to have high expectations toward any book as that makes us prone to disappointment. But I couldn't resist it here. I didn't know what the story in The Will of the Many would be, and I still entered it with very high expectations because I loved how satisfying Islington completed the complexity of The Licanius Trilogy. And luckily, Islington managed to exceed my unreasonably high expectations with The Will of the Many, the first book in the Hierarchy series. As far as the first book of a series goes, this one tops over The Shadow of What Was Lost in every possible way, and I think many of you know how much I enjoyed The Licanius Trilogy by now. To be more precise, The Will of the Many is Islington's best novel so far in his career. It is, at the very least, even though it is a different kind of book, up there with the quality produced in The Light of All That Falls. This is a contender for the best book of 2023. By the end of this year, the competition is fierce, but I will be shocked if The Will of the Many did not—at least—end up in my top 5 books of the year. And I will tell you why in this review. The Catenan Republic—the Hierarchy—may rule the world now, but they do not know everything. He tells them his name is Vis Telimus. He tells them he was orphaned after a tragic accident three years ago, and good fortune alone gives him a chance to enter their most prestigious school: The Catenan Academy. He tells them that once he graduates, he will gladly join the rest of civilized society in allowing his strength, drive, and focus—what they call Will—to be leeched away and added to the power of those above him, as millions already do. As all must eventually do. Vis tells them that he belongs, and they believe him. But the truth is that Vis has been sent to enter the Catenan Academy to find answers. To solve a murder. To search for an ancient weapon. To uncover secrets that may tear the Republic apart. And that he will never, ever cede his Will to the empire that executed his family. To survive, though, Vis will have to rise through the Academy’s ranks. He will have to smile, make friends, pretend to be one of them and win. If he fails, then those who want to control him, who know his real name, will no longer have any use for him. And if the Hierarchy ever finds out who Vis truly is, they will kill him. This is the blurb for The Will of the Many. If you’re familiar with Pierce Brown’s sci-fi series Red Rising Saga, you might notice the similarities in the premise. For context, in Red Rising, Darrow is a Red, the lowest rank in the hierarchy of labor within the color-coded society of the series. The Gold is the ruler of humanity, and they have done irrevocable actions to Darrow and the Red for many years. So Darrow has to masquerade as a Gold and increase his fame and prestige through the rank of Gold to fulfill his revenge. Red Rising Saga is one of my favorite series of all time, and yes, the similarities with Red Rising can definitely be spotted in The Will of the Many. Even more so because Vis has a personality that is quick to anger like Darrow, and the world-building of these two series is heavily Roman-inspired as well; more on this later. But more importantly, the premise and the Roman-inspired world-building are where the similarities end. “A man is nothing if he does not honour his debts.” The Will of the Many is a different kind of book compared to Red Rising. This is not like the controversial case that The First Binding by R. R. Virdi has with The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss. This 240,000 words long novel never felt derivative to me. It's the other way around; with more pages read in The Will of the Many, especially after the insane ending, the more I feel The Will of the Many as a whole package, as expected of Islington, is another incredibly distinct, ambitious, and mind-blowing work of art. From my assessment, it would be more exact to say if you love the premise and world-building portrayed in Red Rising Saga, it's very possible you will end up loving The Will of the Many. Especially if you love the magical school or academy setting and trope too. If you’ve read The Licanius Trilogy, you will know that plotting is one of the finest aspects of the trilogy. I’m pleased to mention Islington’s strength as a mostly planner storyteller (I believe every writer is a mix of both) returns powerfully in The Will of the Many. My mind is still reeling as I write this review. I cannot stop thinking about all the events that transpired in this novel and their crazy implications for the rest of the series. Only a special fantasy series can make me feel this effect right after reading the first—out of the planned three or four—installments. I predict The Hierarchy will be more than a trilogy, but that remains to be seen. I am not comparing which is better here as a storyteller: a pantser or a planner. Both have their merits. However, I believe Islington has showcased the best aspects of being a—mostly—planner type of storyteller in The Licanius Trilogy with his meticulous story structure and well-placed revelations, and I can already see these factors being implemented magnificently here. This is all splendidly realized without any sacrifice in pacing. The pacing was engrossing from cover to cover for me. The blurb and I have mentioned the enrollment into the prestigious Catenan Academy. I do not think of this as a spoiler; similar to readers talking about Kvothe entering The University in The Kingkiller Chronicle or Harry Potter entering Hogwarts, just a few examples. Both series take place in a magical school setting, the same as The Will of the Many. But to set expectations accordingly, let me be clear that Vis' tale in the Catenan Academy did not start until we reached Part II of the book: Deus Nolens Exituus. (Get Results Whether God likes it or not.) That's 35% into the book, and by approximation, I think about 50% of the story actually takes place in The Catenan Academy. Part I of the story, Imperium Sine Fine (An Empire without an End), was the setup and foundation. This is the introductory section, and it depicts Vis’ merciless training montage and preparation under the tutelage of Lanistia before he enters the Academy. Additionally, the foundational stage and the training montage were never uneventful. Islington efficaciously made the three parts of the narrative here have their own overarching story arc (beginning, middle section, and concluding chapters) while being seamlessly connected to one another. If you already have a great time reading Part I, you will be gripped with the rest of the book. This, of course, comes with a caveat that the magical school or academy trope and setting is one of your favorites.The Will of the Many is a book about ambition, justice, greed, vengeance, friendship, leadership, loyalty, knowledge, and family. And although these were on some level established since Part I, they were extensively integrated into the narrative in Part II and Part III: In Cauda Venenum (The Poison is in the Tail); once Vis is in The Catenan Academy, an academy that rewards greed and victory above all else. A magic school setting in fantasy is constantly irresistible to me. I have no idea when I will be over this trope, but it is not anytime soon. I am confident in that. I cannot help it, okay? Whether in novels, manga, or video games, I have many of my favorite adult fantasy stories centers or starts in a magical or battle school setting. It is one of my favorite tropes of all time. There is something about training montages, learning new abilities and skills, overcoming challenges, and defeating bullies or horrible teachers while forming friendships that always feel satisfying and relatable. These factors in fantasy novels, paired with the magical school trope, and a main character that earned my investment, have a good chance of becoming one of my favorite books. They are some of my favorite escapism. Assuming they are done right, of course, and The Will of the Many is a good example where all of these were infused incredibly well. A few comments have stated they did not feel connected to the main characters of The Licanius Trilogy due to its heavily plot-focused storyline, except for Caeden. Although I do not fully agree with this notion, because I liked Davian, Wirr, Asha, and many characters in the trilogy enough, I certainly agree Caeden is the best character in The Licanius Trilogy; Caeden IS one of my favorite characters in the fantasy genre. It is with a heart full of happiness I say it is very likely Vis will become a character I love as much as Caeden in the future. Try not to misinterpret what I said as a criticism toward The Licanius Trilogy. The Licanius Trilogy is one of my favorite trilogies. My point is that Islington has developed further as a storyteller; with more books in the series available in the future, the potential for Hierarchy series to be better than The Licanius Trilogy is strongly evident. If I am already this compelled and invested in Vis and his story just from reading The Will of the Many, what would be the outcome after reading the sequels? I am excited to find out. “Whether the obstacles to our advancement arise from our ties or our actions, we need to learn to overcome them ourselves. It’s not fair, but nor is the world.” I found Vis to be a character reminiscent of Kvothe or Darrow. Forged by his brutal past, the rigorous physical and mental training he partakes from a young age has acted as an eternal fire of motivation that transformed him into a skillful fighter, intelligent, resourceful, a quick learner, and a jack of all trades. In other words, Vis is great at many things. However, he is not flawless. Vis lies a lot for survival and is often blinded by rage. This uncontrollable crimson veil of wrath often leads him toward conflicts or iconic moments, depending on how you look at the situation. His capacity for violence and fury is a weakness he needs to tame, and he soon realizes he cannot do everything by himself. This is why the unlikely friendship he forms in the Academy, especially with Callidus and Eidhin, gives him solace and hope amidst all the loneliness, dangers, and life-threatening allegiances he's juggling. Moments of virtue, loyalty, and solidarity were relatively rare and hard-earned, but the warmth of each one of these occurrences felt palpable; they radiated from the pages. All of these, along with Vis' inspiring courage, determination, and compassion, reinforce the unputdownable narrative for me.Islington's improved prose was responsible for my immersion and connection with the novel. Islington successfully nailed Vis' personality and voice so damn well. In science fiction & fantasy novels, it is frequently crucial for me to truly feel like the POV character is telling their story, not the author. The narrative has to completely enthrall me in the POV character's narration and inner thoughts. The best kind of SFF authors can do this. Here are some examples of an SFF series with excellent first-person POV narration. Fitz in The Realm of the Elderlings by Robin Hobb, Kvothe in The Kingkiller Chronicle by Patrick Rothfuss, Darrow in Red Rising Saga by Pierce Brown, and Tomas Piety in War for the Rose Throne by Peter McLean with Tomas Piety. These four characters' narration felt like the author became the messenger with a mission to write and deliver their tales. And that, precisely, is what has been accomplished in The Will of the Many. Islington’s writing style has the ability to conjure vivid imagery in my mind and an engaging reading experience effectively. And these praises are not exclusive to Vis. The entire story is told from the first-person POV narration (in present tense) of Vis, and yet, I still feel like I got to know the supporting characters' motivations and personalities almost as well as Vis. They are all unique with their own qualities. “You would be surprised at how far a combination of coin and favour can go toward silencing whole families.” Finally, before I close this long-enough review, I want to elaborate on the world-building of the series. When I read The Will of the Many, it hit me that I haven’t read as much Roman-inspired epic fantasy series as I thought. I think this is a factor that increased my reading enjoyment. There is Codex Alera by Jim Butcher, a popular Roman-inspired fantasy series. But, in my opinion, The Will of the Many is multiple times superior. The world-building feels relatively fresh. Many aspects of the world-building in The Will of the Many are deeply rooted in its Roman inspiration. The names, clothing, beautiful vistas, settings, in-world game, and more. Every aspect of the Roman-inspired world and Islington's crafted fantasy lore were delivered in detail gradually. I did not feel overwhelmed by the terminologies, there is a character list and glossary at the back of the book every time I need to remind myself of something, and it did not take long for me to feel immersed in this Roman-inspired epic fantasy series. And I loved it. The gladiatorial bouts, the naumachia, the Catenan rankings, and how the magic system (Will, which I'm sure we will see even more of its usage in future sequels) is interweaved into the story. Everything felt so natural to the plotlines. Plus, there is, of course, Islington's own creation in the manifestation of the mystery of the ancient weaponry and Cataclysm, a world-spanning disaster three centuries ago that left less than five people in every hundred alive. Maybe it is more accurate to call The Will of the Many, and the series, an epic science fantasy series due to how the high fantasy aspect and scientific technologies merged and enhanced the narrative. And I, as a fan of having more sci-fi elements in epic fantasy, am totally pleased by all of these combinations.The characters' development, in-depth lore, technologies, and history established in The Will of the Many have provided possibilities for the Will and mysteries of the Cataclysm and more to be explored further in the next installments. This is also a darker novel than I expected. Explosions, massacres, shredded flesh and blood, and obsidian eyes and blades; the action scenes—the big action sequences, Labyrinth runs, or duels—were all tension-packed. Islington displayed the immense terror every second can bring in the lurking presence of disintegration and chaos. Violence begets grief, and grief begets violence. Is it a mistake, or is it righteous, to repay the sorrow caused by the heinous sins of the past with more violence of the present? The Will of the Many closed the magical/battle school/dark academia portion of the series, and that alone was already super satisfying. But oh my god... the mysteries and implications raised after the final chapters were groundbreaking, to say the least. Without spoilers, what Islington did in the epilogue, Ex Uno Plures (Out of One, Many), was nothing short of outstanding. In one chapter, Islington escalated the scintillating novel into something even more extraordinary.My emotional attachment to the characters and events of this book is undeniable. The Will of the Many by James Islington is a phenomenal achievement. Islington has flourishingly crafted a Roman-inspired science fantasy world with brilliant plotlines that feel believable through the perspective of a talented and flawed main character imbued with a superbly distinct voice. I absolutely loved it. It IS one of the best books I've ever read, and it is also one of the rare books where, upon finishing it, I immediately wanted to reread from the beginning. And I know I will do that when the sequel, The Strength of the Few, is near. The waiting time for the sequel will be one of the worst waiting times I need to endure. How could it not be after the intense and insane culmination of the book? But until then... I will be patient. Audi (Hear). Vide (See). Tace (Be Silent). And read The Will of the Many as soon as possible. A new exceptional science fantasy series destined to become a classic is here. The Will of the Many has everything I love in an epic science fantasy novel, and many scenes here will become eternal moments in my mind.You can pre-order this book from: Amazon | Blackwells (Free International shipping)Most of the quotes I wanted to use in this review were taken out on Goodreads because I ran out of allowed characters.You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions | I also have a Booktube channelSpecial thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Aliysa, Anastasia, Andrew, Andrew W, Annabeth, Arliss, Barbara, Brad, Cade, Casey, Chris, Diana, Dylan, Edward, Elias, Ellen, Gary, Hamad, Helen, Jenn, Jesse, Jimmy Nutts, Joie, Kristina, Luis, Lufi, Melinda, Meryl, Michael, Michael, Miracle, Nicholas, Radiah, Samuel, Sarah, Sarah, Scott, Shawn, Shawna, Teri, Tori, Tracy, Wendy, Wick, Xero, Yuri, Zoe.
6003284919	holy shit. – think dark academia meets the hunger games– so many twists and turns!!– single pov ! (you guys have no idea how much of a relief this was)– cool magic systems & epic world-building (which were so easy to follow)– mic-drop moments – moments where i just wanted to scream because the tension suffocated me– so much politics & scheming (i love it)– featuring poc rep with showing rather than just “telling”i don’t really have much to say but this was so good. i’m looking forward to rereading this when book two comes out because the reveals were chefs kiss & i loved following vis as a main character (even if it was slightly weird that he was 17 going on 18 for most of the book because he seemed too smart to be that young 😭). but basically you guys need to read this, like, RIGHT NOW.
5788023513	I asked for an unpredictable plot, a hero's journey that shocked me, one so completely original that I couldn't see it coming until it was exploding right in my face. The Will of the Many stepped up and said, "Bitch hold my hoops." Never in a million years did I see this coming. Beyond the absolutely wild and captivating ending, this book could school the fantasy genre in plot and pacing, show-don't-tell prose, competent and relatable characters that are so believably strategic they remain enigmatic, and writing a setting that immaculately blurs the lines of fantasy and science fiction, complete with a magic system that's philosophically evocative. I can hardly believe this story is about teenagers. NOTHING about it is juvenile. The plot is so intricately woven but expertly told, that it's totally accessible while nailing about 20 different technical story-telling tactics with excellence. The story moved easily between sequences of competitive training, espionage, attacks, strategic maneuvering, emotional upheaval, moral conundrums, and backstory reveals at an effortless and constant pace. I got it all, without a single lapse. It missed nothing. I have no notes. I do have questions and need the next book now! This is easily one of my top three reads of the year. If you consider yourself a fan of science fiction or fantasy, I cannot recommend this more.
5789391280	(view spoiler)[ Diago needs his own spinoff!!! Everyone would be dead if it weren't for our fluffy canine friend let's be real here. (hide spoiler)]The ending of this got me so confused I had to look up reddit posts on what it's about and what happened. Also loved how almost every male character was described as pretty, hot, buff, and or smart. All I got for the girls were their hair color lmao. For me this started off sooo strong but lost me a bit towards the end. So much supposedly happened and yet.....so little. AND you're telling me Vis is 17??? He acts and talks like he's 40 😭!!! (read for 200 pages a day reading challenge): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqHaj...3.5 STARS just for Diago. Seriously everyone would be dead.Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
5682286566	let me preface this entire mini review with this: even in the year 2023, the name of the wind is still my favorite book of all time, and the will of the many was the closest book i’ve ever read to capturing the feeling of that book. and i am not saying this because there is a magical school setting in part two of this book, i am saying this because the main character, vis, reminds me so much of kvothe, the main character of the name of the wind, that it casted a magic spell on me while reading. i am also such a character driven reader, and to give me the feeling of one of my favorite characters in all literature? yeah, i fell in love with this one easily, friends. (and yes @ everyone also comparing this setting, world building/caste system, and even a trial/competition feeling like red rising!) but i don't want you all to think i only like this because it reminded me of my favorite book, because i promise you this book and story and main character completely stand on their own and deserve to be celebrated all on their own as well! also, the prologue of this one will grip you all on its own, i promise. but after the prologue, we see vis, seventeen years old and still orphaned, working in a prison where people are being drugged and their will (or magic) is being siphoned to other people higher in society (or pyramids). But vis catches the eye of one of the visitors, and he finally receives his opportunity to train to go undercover to catena academy and get revenge for the murder of his family. but this synopsis is really only the tip of the iceberg pyramid of this story. this is also a story about love and how that can take so many different shapes and forms. this is a story about friendship and the beauty of learning to trust after the world has given you so many reasons not to ever again. this is a story about honoring your past while also embracing the hope of what your future might look like. this was paced so very well - the lead up was everything, but the ending was out of this world phenomenal. this was written so beautifully, from quotes to metaphors, to just being a book that i feel like i could highlight something on every page. this was also so smartly written, and always walked a really tight balance line of dark and light. and the magic system is so complex yet also simple at the same time, and it really impressed me all on its own. this book was truly an accumulation of so many amazing ideas and executed concepts that i was completely immersed from cover to cover. and the book truly evoked so many feelings (and tears… one time even involving a lobster) from me, and it really instantly became a new all time favorite. and in 600 pages, vis really stole my heart and became a new all time favorite character. this really was one of the bright shining lights of all of sff in 2023, and very much a part of my reading year, and i highly recommend this story to you. and I absolutely cannot wait to see where this author takes this story next. trigger + content warnings: blood, captivity, torture, child abuse, abandonment, violence, slavery, bullying, explosions, needles, mention of suicides in past, drugging, vomit (one time self induced), medical testing without consent, anxiety, ptsd, grief, drowning, claustrophobic setting, manipulation, one sentence mention of homophobia (in a negative light), loss of a limb, loss of a friend/loved one, loss of parents and siblings in past, ableist + dated language for people who have disabilities blog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon
6014172372	There is no review I could write worthy of this book. Words aren’t enough. I would sell my soul and my right arm to get book 2 tonight. Period.
7243580669	3 1/2 stars. I really struggled with how to rate this because parts of it were excellent-- the world and magic system are cool and genuinely interesting --but I just couldn't get past Vis. Extra half star for the ending because that was 🤯Vis, the protagonist, is a classic Gary Stu. He is strong, inexplicably defeating those more powerful and better-trained than him, and he is so smart he bests those known for being the most intelligent in their class. There is not a skill that Vis can't master, and in each he quickly becomes better than the most competent students. Not only this, but he is handsome, drawing the attention of the pretty girls, and deeply moral and heroic. *snore*What are this guy's flaws? He doesn't have any! I was reminded of Darrow from Red Rising, which is another popular series that I gave up on because the characters bored me.This is a personal thing, obviously, as the size of the franchises show that many people love a Superman or a James Bond. It's also not always a dealbreaker. Harry Potter is the least interesting character in Harry Potter, except it’s okay because there are dozens of other brilliant characters to outshine him. Not so much here. I'm curious who other readers thought were standout characters in this book...? I think Eidhan and Callidus showed the most promise, but none of the many characters in the book are actually on page that much. Ulciscor was dull. Emissa was beige. Almost all the characters were forgettable. I don't think the author developed them very well. One example is Veridius, whom we are constantly reminded is "charming", but I never once got a sense of his charm. I can't help comparing to my recent fantasy read-- The Sword of Kaigen --where even minor characters stood out.Also you could do a drinking game with every time the author bridges two scenes or chapters by Vis passing out.Okay, okay, now I've complained I'll get on with the positives. The world is fairly complex and interesting, even if underneath it’s a familiar concept— those at the top leech from those at the bottom, literally in this case. But there's plenty of detail and a well thought-out geography to the world. The technology and magic system are exciting.There are some great twists and turns, plenty of action and, as I mentioned, the ending is insane. I just wish I felt more connected to the characters.I'm not sure at this time if I'll be reading on. A great world + intriguing plotting goes a long way, but without anyone I really care about, I’m not sure I can summon interest for another 600 page volume. But also... wtf that ending??
5805562155	It seems that the vast majority of people have absolutely loved this book. Allow me to be one of the few.This was definitely a book. There were definitely words and I definitely read them. Did I feel anything while reading them? No, not really.Did I love the characters? Was I enthralled by the writing? Was I immersed in the world? Heck, was I even engaged with the plot????No. No at all.I've seen people compare this to Red Rising (a book I love) and honestly, I don't see it. Aside from having Ancient Rome-inspired societies and protagonists going to an academy, there weren't very many similarities. For starters, Red Rising is nonstop action. The stakes are constantly rising. There is danger and tension in every interaction. People's lives are constantly in danger. The plot and characters all go in a very clear direction. The Will of the Many had none of that.This book feels extremely YA, which isn't bad, I've loved a lot of YA novels, but that's not how this book is sold and marketed. The book makes promises it does not deliver upon and honestly left me wanting.The main character, Vis, is a runaway orphan with a secret past and he swears he's all tough and hardened by the world. He believes himself to be an incredible actor, able to mold himself into any situation to survive. In reality, he is a reckless boy constantly on the verge of getting caught in a lie (and often does get caught). Everyone can see his lies don't add up, but it's okay, people will always turn a blind eye to the obvious for some reason.Vis is also the most brilliant, most special of all the snowflakes. He gets sent to a supposedly prestigious academy with the children of the most powerful people in the empire. Those children are meant to be the smartest, most skilled, and most cunning. Sadly, that's just not true. It can't be, considering how Vis makes his way through the ranks with little to no pushback in a few months. Vis is just naturally smarter, wiser, and plain better than all his classmates and professors. Vis easily and consistently beats people who are champions in their fields, and outsmarts every single person around him. He speaks several dead languages, is a master swordsman, an Olympic swimmer, and a world-class strategist. He's just 'that guy' and I didn't buy it for a second. In part because he's 17, but also because it made no sense.Then there was the world-building. This world felt incomplete. It fell flat. Also, I don't actually know how Will works and I've decided that I don't need to know. The more the author mentioned Will, the less I understood and the less I cared. The book was over 600 pages and it didn't need to be. A good 150 pages could have been trimmed to make a more compact, richer story. There were so many training montages and so many unnecessary conversations. So much happened, and yet I felt like nothing happened at all, up until the end. By the way, that ending was actually really good. The epilogue got me intrigued, but probably not enough for me to read the sequel. Then again, who knows? I just might pick up book two.Overall, this book was okay. I didn't love it. It left me unimpressed. But it also wasn't horrible. Had it been shorter (and had it been sold as a YA novel) I might have rated it higher. But alas.
7501553454	HOLY SHIT 💪🏽💪🏽💪🏽💪🏽💪🏽
8053245178	HEY JAMES WTF WAS THAT ENDING JAMES
5960612533	Are you KIDDING ME RIGHT NOW?? GIVE ME BOOK 2 RIGHT THIS SECOND. RIGHT NOW. RIGHT NOWWWWWWWWWWWWCompelling and intelligent, yet flawed protagonist✅Interesting world-building and use of magic✅Involving mysteries that unfold at a good pace ✅Well written and pulse-pumping action✅Plot points that keep you hooked✅IT HAS EVERYTHING MAN. MAGIC SCHOOL. POLITICAL INTRIGUE. HIGH STAKES ACTION. EMOTIONAL MOMENTS. MYSTERIOUS MOTIVATIONS AND WORLD BUILDING.DUDE. OH MY GOD. This is easily one of the best books I’ve read all year, and an instant addition to my required reads. Vis is an excellent protagonist, the setting is engrossing, the pacing is immaculate, and the emotional aspect of the story hit me way harder than I expected.I can’t even write a real review right now. That’s how amped up I am. Holy shit.100000/10. Give. Me. More. WHY DID I READ THIS😭 NOW I HAVE TO WAIT
6511968091	I have A LOT to say :DBut the headline is that I found it a very enjoyable book that I was keen to read.I picked this one up primarily because I saw it was doing so well, saleswise, and had an incredibly high average rating on this site, stratospheric compared to the vast majority of fantasy books with 10,000+ ratings (a book's average rating declines with number of ratings).I'm always keen to see what magic sauce successful authors use.Additionally, James Islington was a semi-finalist in my SPFBO contest with The Shadow of What Was Lost, so I recognised the name and was extra curious.For marketing purposes books are often described as mixtures of other famous books - my own One Word Kill was described as Stranger Things meets Ready Player One. Whilst reading this book it was easy for me to play the same game and say to myself that this element came from X and this one from Y. I'm about to tell you what those Xs and Ys are, but first, let's be absolutely clear that this mapping is absolutely not a claim that the contributions were copied from these sources - it's just a fun game to play. Anthony Ryan's book The Waking Fire contained insanely close ideas to ones I had written in a book 15 years earlier - but that book was never published and it was simply not possible that he had copied them/been inspired by that book of mine. I note this to show how often similar ideas bubble up wholly independently.Imagine the book is a fine wine and me the wine sleuth, sipping it, gazing into space, and waxing lyrical about notes of oak, Tuscan sun on eastern slopes, a high zinc content in the soil...Immediately I saw shades of both Blood Song and Empire of Silence - we have what's effectively a war school (Blood Song) and the son of a royal house now down and out in an empire he wants to learn about &/or destroy (Empire of Silence - which in turn has shades of The Name of the Wind).As the magic system revealed itself I saw strong correlations with David Farland's The Runelords where individuals sacrifice some of their own power (strength, health etc) to their own detriment, and contribute it to another who sits at the top of a pyramid of contributed power, leading to individuals with superhuman strength, speed etc.We then learn about a physical game / assault course at the school, with moving parts, which is said to help attune your mind to the magic system -- which of course has parallels with the blade-path in Red Sister.All of these story building blocks have bags of potential, and Islington constructs an addictively entertaining tale out of them.We have a single first-person PRESENT TENSE point of view, which loads of people winge about when other people do it, but everyone seems to buy into without complaint here. Which just goes to show that you can do whatever you like in writing, as long as you do it well...Our man is - and I say this with zero disrespect intended, a Gary Stu. He's not just good at everything, he's insanely good at everything. Over the course of the book he is lined up against experts in various fields/disciplines, and it doesn't really matter if he studied it briefly ten years ago or has never used the equipment before ... he's going to win. Again, in the hands of a less talented writer this would draw endless complaint. But it's such damn good fun - we/I eat/ate it up.There are plenty of books where the main character is super good at everything, The Name of the Wind springs to mind, the Gor books (Tarnsman of Gor), even Prince of Thorns to a significant degree. I feel our man here, young Vis, also falls into the 'archetype' mould where beyond being disadvantaged and being moral/good, he's a bit of a blank onto which it's easy to project ourselves. So we can more easily share in his victories as he doesn't have a bunch of opinions and flaws etc that get in the way of steering him around as a proxy. And this of course is a guilty pleasure that works well in many books. Characters who are more complex and individual can, in many ways, be harder to identify with than the more generic hero.I mentioned Gor above (a series with MANY problems) purely because it's a good example of a series that has another element that comes into play here, and that's "fantasy chess". A good number of fantasy books over the years have featured "fantasy chess", which is simply a made up game that is not given to us in too much detail other than it's a proxy for war and played on a board (or with cards). In Gor, our hero, Tarl Cabot (who is GREAT at everything) is also great at Fantasy Chess, and beats people at that in important moments to mix it up a bit.Vis also has his fantasy chess moment.And a slightly painful animal companion moment where he stops in the middle of something important in an interlude that feels entirely crafted to give us the "important later" animal friend.And EVEN THEN with every writer bone groaning at the obvious levers being pulled ... I was loving it :DAnother grouch is that because our man's so good at everything we need everyone to be horrible to him and set against him succeeding. And that's not unusual in these school stories - we need a bully etc, and we get them in The Name of The Wind, in Red Sister etc, so I'm not being holier than thou here... my grouch is simply that the explanations for these people's opposition to our man are so thin, especially given the extraordinary lengths these grudges are taken to.One teacher "doesn't like his name" - i.e. the family name he's adopted into. The teacher knows our guy was plucked off the streets for a purpose and isn't responsible for any of this, and yet on the strength of this old grudge does outrageous stuff that puts his reputation and career on the line.Another boy has a grudge that our man didn't save his sister in a scenario where our man had no reasonable expectation of saving anyone, wasn't near the girl in question, didn't know her, and (without being asked and at great personal risk) saved many others.Again - I'll return to my refrain: if I wasn't enjoying the book so much I might have laid my dissatisfaction at the feet of these issues. But I was enjoying it a lot and I've no reservations about giving it 5*.At the end things get frantic, emotional, and finally rather complicated. It's a great read. I can see why it's doing so well, and recommend you give it a go. You'll probably love it too! Join my Patreon Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes..
5837685214	Absolutely amazing in every way. Full review coming soon...
6163277878	i'm a bit underwhelmed i fear. there were things i enjoyed about this book - and things i didn't. hopefully, i can gather my thoughts coherently. pros:- compulsively readable writing style.- magic that's explained and used in an academic, scientific way - i love in-world theories and scientific concepts and academic classes surrounding a magic system. - i also liked the concept of the hierarchy and its social classes being built around this magic system.- the labyrinth is a great competition-style game concept - i can easily see it in a movie or a video game.- the hunger games-style iudicium (the last 15% of the book) was engaging to read. the rules were pretty interesting so i wish this was a longer section in the book. cons:- our protagonist - others have mentioned this and i have to agree to an extent: vis definitely feels like a 'gary stu' character. he has a bland and reactive personality and could almost be a self-insert if it weren't for some frustrating choices he makes. things come a bit too easily to him (although he does have to work for them). no matter what the obstacle is, you know he'll surpass it because the first 14 years of his life were apparently designed for this very plotline to take place (ok that's kinda unfair. his past as a prince training to be a diplomat does explain his skills...the rest are just protagonist superpowers). and look, there is a way to write a protagonist who's better than everyone else and always wins (see: the queen's thief series) but vis has none of the wit, charm, or intrigue to make that kind of character compelling. - i also struggle to believe how vis barely has any animosity towards his family's murderers and his country's occupiers - sure he's angry and grieving but it all feels rather mild for the context. at one point, he finds out the name of the man who ordered his family's deaths and he decides that "violence is no answer to grief." maybe if vis was a 40 year old whose family died 20 years ago, i'd believe this, but for a 17 year old whose family died 3 years ago? please be for real. - extremely disappointed by how the author decided to portray the rebellion - they're basically terrorists and don't have the people's best interests at heart because of course. vis's superior attitude towards them was so irritating to me - he kept criticizing the only force opposing his people's occupiers but refused to offer any alternatives (and we're constantly shown just how extraordinarily brilliant he is). the anti-violence stance taken here felt so disingenuous to me (and disconnected from real life resistance). - in fact, for most of the book, vis isn't interested in truly opposing the hierarchy at all. his goals are incredibly self-serving but i guess it makes sense given his privileged past as a prince. - side characters were boring and forgettable (except eidhin and maybe lanistia). i'd say vis and eidhin's friendship was the only complex, genuine relationship in the book.- for all the barrage of information thrown at us regarding 'will' (the magic system), we don't really know much about it. what exactly is will? is it like qi, inner energy or something? what does it mean to imbue? what's conditional imbuing? i know we'll likely learn more in the sequel but it's funny to me that a 600+ page book told us so little about how the magic actually works. - a lot of hype around the ending - it's intriguing for sure, but at least 3/4 of it was quite predictable too. overall, interesting concepts, poor character work, disappointing politics. there are enough mysteries in the plot for me to pick up the sequel - i'm just not dying to get my hands on it.
7036967854	4.5 Stars ✨ I AM SHOOK!!! This book is SO FREAKING GOOD!!! I went into it feeling a bit wary because of all the hype. It’s rare for a hyped book to live up to expectations. But wow, this one absolutely delivered.A Roman-Inspired Sci-Fi/Fantasy. This story is a perfect mix of genres, with strong elements of:1:) Dark Academia2:) An Heir Who Lost His Kingdom3:) A Complex Magic SystemI have not found a book that sparked this feeling in me since reading The rage of dragons, which is one of my all-time favourites so yeah, that’s how good this book is!!! One of the most thrilling parts of the book is how every single character has hidden motivations. You genuinely can’t trust anyone, and that constant tension is what kept me glued to the pages. There are a million moving pieces, and the story keeps you guessing. Every time I thought I had figured something out, the plot would pivot in a completely unexpected direction. It’s chaotic in the best way.One thing that annoyed me was how good Vis seemed at everything he does. Don’t get me wrong—his resourcefulness and skill are impressive, but at times, it felt like he was too good at everything, which made some moments feel a bit predictable.Final Thoughts:The Will of the Many is an unforgettable ride. The intrigue, the twists, the emotional depth—it’s all here. Despite a few issues, this book is phenomenal, and I’m already counting down the days until the sequel. (WHY IS IT SOOO FAR AWAY??!!!) If you’re a fan of dark academia, intricate magic systems, and morally complex heroes, this book is a must-read.Spoilers Ahead‼️Favorite Scenes:• Vis vs. the Sextus: This fight was intense!! Watching Vis outthink and outmaneuver someone who was supposedly so powerful had my jaw on the FLOOR!!!• Vis and Eriden Completing the Labyrinth in Cymirian: I cannot express how much I LOVED this scene. • Vis vs. Ianix• Vis Going Home: This was such an emotional moment. Seeing Vis return after everything he’s endured hit me right in the feels.• Vis' vision of his father!!!The Ending (Warning: Confusing but Brilliant)Okay, so let’s unpack the ending From what I understand:There are three dimensions:A:) Vis’s Dimension (Reality)B:) Obetieum (The Good Place)C:) Luceum (The Bad Place)When Vis went into the sword-like artifact, his body was split into three versions: one in his realm, one in Obetieum, and one in Luceum. I think Vis was supposed to die, but Caeror saved him, which is why the dead bodies started chasing him. They were seeking balance. Let me know if I’m wrong, but that’s my interpretation! The layers of complexity in this ending are wild, and I can’t stop thinking about it.______________________Pre-Read:I only bought this book because I heard the cover is changing, and I didn’t want to miss out on the old design. My friend told me I have to read this if I want to be absolutely devastated. 🫠 Apparently, none of the books she’s reading now even compare, and she’s going through severe withdrawals!!! After all that hype, you know I had to see what this one’s all about.
7377719036	This book is an absolute mic drop. WOW. WOWW. I just finished my reread and there’s so many nuggets that I didn’t pick up on the first time I read this book. Thanks a masterrrrrpppieeeceeee
4827655862	Check out my Booktube channel at: The Obsessive Bookseller[4.5/5 stars] Yep – this solidifies Islington as a personal favorite!You never know what to expect going into an Islington… and you may not always know what the heck is going on while you’re in there. But you can bet it’s always going to be a wild ride! I loved Licanius for its classic fantasy feel (told with a modern writing style) and its wildly dynamic plotting ideas. He brought that same weirdness and creativity to The Will of the Many and amped it up even more.It had so many elements I love in books – fight/training sequences, school settings, competition, cool magic systems – so many great elements that I was a nervous wreck while reading it. I was so worried he was going to get my hopes up only to dash them by not delivering on all the promises. But have no fear – he completely delivers on every account with everything explored to it’s fullest. It was so satisfying!Even though it ultimately delivered, this book is a platypus. It has a lot of wild elements that by all accounts shouldn’t work together (and perhaps wouldn’t if handled by a less deft writer), but somehow he pulled it off. I’ve found the key with Islington is to just go with it – trusting that he knows what he’s doing and it’s worth the effort. He certainly hasn’t let me down yet.The Will of the Many had killer momentum and some of the best mic-drop scenes I’ve read in ages – many of which were so vivid and gut-punching that I’ll remember them for years to come. I loveloveloved the academic aspect and how often the main character put his skills to the test. I loved the cast of characters and the fact that I still want to know more about all of them. I loved the friendships and rivalries and that survival depended on the MC’s ability to navigate socially. I loved the competitions and that none of them were just brushed over. And I loved the epilogue – slamming down my 5-star rating and fangirl status. You’d better believe I’m already clamoring for the next one.I loved it.Recommendations: Just go with it! You wont regret it!Thank you to my Patrons: Dave, Katrin, Frank, Sonja, Staci, Kat, Melissa, Tonya, Betsy, Eliss, Mike, and Jen! <3Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.comOther books you might like:
5377125086	I am such a sucker for stories that involve an ancient cataclysm mystery. I mean, I love it so much and want that kind of plot injected directly into my brain. That is just one of the many intriguing storylines that acclaimed fantasy author James Islington has weaved into his latest upcoming novel THE WILL OF THE MANY. Not only that, Islington has also managed to create one of the more emotional journeys of any main character that I have come across.Coming off of the brilliant Licanius Trilogy, I wasn't sure just what to expect from this one. Would it still give me that same magical feeling I got when I read that series? Well all I'll say is Islington has proven that he has some of the best ideas and writing chops in the game after finishing this utterly spellbinding first book in the Hierarchy series. It shouldn't have been as effortless as it was for me to fly through this almost 700 page book, but it was. And that's just a testament to the magnificent storyteller that James Islington is. Part of the excellence of this book stems from just how many layers of mystery are involved. Just when one might look like it is solved, another pops up and often takes the story in a wholly unexpected direction. The Hierarchy is portrayed as yet another group of megalomaniacs who after conquering a weaker kingdom, now rules with absolute and unquestioned authority. They also rule by way of a super cool magic system that enables them to gain power by sucking the "Will" from those they capture and imprison. It kind of reminded me of the magic system in David Farland's Runelords series but with a slightly different and unique twist. Those with the most Will, Princeps, are ranked highest in the Catenan ruling class, followed by Dimidius, Tertius, Quartus, well you get the picture. It is by this transfer of Will that the Hierarchy is able to remain in power and maintain their seemingly invincible stranglehold.And yet main character Vis believes all is not lost and that by infiltration into the famed Catenan Academy, he might be able to uncover vital information that could reveal potential vulnerabilities in the Hierarchy's armor. This is where the book really had me in its grip as Vis happens upon so many instances of near capture, death, and being exposed as an agent of the resistance that I wasn't sure whether he was going to even survive past the first half of the book to be completely honest. Is this a fool's errand, or can one person really hope to overturn and reverse the forces of tyranny that have taken over a battered and beaten homeland?Wow, what an extraordinary read this was. I can't get over how many twists and turns this book took and how completely off balance I was for the vast majority of it. The thing that I liked best was not knowing who in the story was truly trying to help Vis and who was just being friendly only to bide their time until they could thrust a short blade in his back. There's so much deception involved and it's the exact type of fantasy book that I love to read. And while Islington reveals small pieces of the larger picture, he tantalizingly leaves so much still hidden and open for conjecture for the story that is still to come.THE WILL OF THE MANY is a stunning achievement from one of the most talented epic fantasy writers in the game right now. To me this opening book in Islington's brand new series has further shown that he has the staying power to continue to create breathtaking new worlds, brilliantly realized magic systems, and characters who we can both root for and despise. Simply a wonderful book that made me all the more desperate to have the next one in my hand. It's the kind of story that stays with you long after completion and makes you hunger for more. I still have so many questions and cannot wait to continue on with this series. Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys a masterfully told tale with all of the elements that constitute a highly compulsive read.
7783051663	“There comes a point in every man’s life where he can rail against the unfairness of the world until he loses, or he can do his best in it. Remain a victim, or become a survivor.”Well well well, it's named after me, so I thought it best to pick this up....The Will of the Many is one of the most hyped and most discussed fantasy books of recent years. On top of all the love, with the upcoming release of book 2 and my own brother giving me book FOMO, I had to pick this up now.Safe to say, it did not disappoint. Breakneck pace and nonstop twists and turns in a unique fantasy world. Islington manages to deliver constant tension and drama while still giving space for rich character work and slower, emotional beats. A world that feels both fresh and lived-in, with layers of politics, history, and intrigue that unfold naturally through the narrative. It feels epic, but the reader does not get overwhelmed. They are gradually introduced to new aspects of the world and politics and the key players, usually with some little prior knowledge so you really feel their punch on the proper introduction.“The decision may have been made by the few, Diago, but it’s the Will of the many that killed your family.”The Will of the Many was one of those books I actually felt nervous to pick up. Would I love it as much as everyone else? Would I be hunted down by other readers if I did not enjoy it? It turns out I did not need to worry about those answers, because I have joined the ranks of lovers for this fantastic introduction to The Hierarchy. This is what a book 1 should do. Set the high stakes. Give you the characters you root for and the characters you hope will fall. Provide an idea of the series aim whilst still keeping you on your toes. Have you thinking about it days after you closed the final page. I am lucky enough to have been sent The Strength of the Few. Safe to say, I will be diving in soon!5/5 STARS
6358094691	An incredible, unpredictable, and wonderfully twisty fast-paced read that I could not put down. Tense and exciting, this book reminded me of Pierce Brown's Red Rising with its Roman Empire inspired worldbuilding and undercover protagonist surrounded by people he cannot trust, but it has its own style and vibe that separate it from Brown's also phenomenal series. If you're looking for a book to break your reading slump or keep you up until 3am reading, this is the book for you. Great characters, a thrilling plot, and so much fun. Plus, that ending was a serious wtf that made me excited for whatever strange twist comes next. I'm looking forward to book 2.I received a free ARC which in no way impacted my honest review.
5829484175	Wow, this was phenomenal! One of the best high fantasy novels I've read in years! (Think RED RISING meets THE NAME OF THE WIND.) I couldn't put it down!
6174592208	I’m often complaining how stupid characters that aren’t meant to be inherently stupid sound in most books, but I do understand their “ingenuity” is a ploy for the book to be longer, for the plot to be articulated in various stages and not be told all at once. This book, though, had none of it. The main character was so smart it was hard to keep up at times, what he did to help Callidus something I’ll never forget and could have never foreseen. When he wasn’t smart enough to understand the complexity of what was going on around him, then, for sure, nor could be the reader, the politics were as intricate as politics in a roman inspired senate should be, with continuous shifting of weird, but still powered by greed, alliances. It is literally not possible to say that something that happened was predictable, because it was not, my only guide throughout the book was knowing the latin meaning of the characters’ names, as little as it helped. Each part of the book was as surprising as it could be, it left me gasping in various occasions, and I think it was mostly because the characters themselves were, fundamentally, great, complex and each with their own astonishing secrets to tell.On a less positive note, I really don’t like the concept of the epilogue and what may come from it, I’ll admit I’d be way more pleased if this was a stand alone because I’ve many doubts on the way things will unravel, but I guess we’ll see, I may be wrong (I hope I am).
6271308666	HOLY FUCKING SHIT I NEED BOOK TWO IMMEDIATELY9.71 on CAWPILE
5561500505	My thanks to Gallery Books, James Islington and Netgalley.I had planned on doing up one hell of a review. Characters, placement and what all. Then I noticed Rover. That's my Betta fish. He was giving me the evil eye, and flashing his beautiful fins at me! Sure. I could almost read his thoughts. How could I not? His 👀 eyes, and his fins..Just giving me the "feed me now" look.Yeah, he owns me!O.K. So, in truth we all know that I never give reviews. What I give are feelings of the story.This story was initially difficult to get into. I think it was mostly because what's his face was a bit much. Superhero a bit? Yes. Well rounded? Yes.It was too much. I'll confess that I really didn't like the first half of this story. Thankfully, it definitely grew on me! No mucking around here, but I guarantee that I'll be reading the next book.
6094563724	THIS BOOK HERE!! THIS IS WHY I LOVE READINGThis read made me forget to eat, sleep, and work (oops). And I know I truly love a book when that happens. This is the most engaging, epic, engrossing, earth-shattering fantasy I’ve read since The Name of the Wind - and I thought I’d never come across a fantasy I’d love as much as that one again.The Roman Empire setting, the complex and wholly unique magic system, the political intrigue and social commentary, the friendships, the mystery, the magical academy, the animal sidekick (okay it probably shouldn’t be described that way but let me be), the emotion, the layers, the plottwist, the opposing stakes!!! Every time I thought I’d figured something out, everything got turned on its head again. It is a unique thing for a writer to be able to craft a world that feels real, along with characters that are complex and alive, invent a magic system AND write a plot that keeps you on the edge of your seat for all 620 pages. And that ending… it’s just cruel to leave us behind like this.This book is genius and I need the second one like now. Please god I beg you let this series continue unlike The Name of the Wind that has been broken my heart a little more with each passing year that there’s no third book
6112319867	Reread 1: This was EVEN BETTER the second time around! One of the absolute best and craziest endings EVER!!________________________________________________________First read:I am lost for words..The hype is real y'all! This was so good! I don't usually like overly political books because I easily either lose interest or just get too confused, but not here. It was easy to follow but at the same time not dumbed down.I loved the world building, the characters were real with flaws and you genuinely don't know who to trust most of the time. The plot is insane! Especially after that epilogue, so.many things start making sense but at the same time you're like whaaaaaaaa???????????? I had to read that epilogue twice just to wrap my head around what was happening🤣🤣The twists got my jaw on the floor, they were so well executed.THAT EPILOGUE BLEW ME AWAY I NEED BOOK 2😭
5740949778	Wow... James Islington really pulled out all the stops for this one...So much happened in this book. I read this over about a month and a half, so looking back, I feel like I've read more than just one book in this series. Honestly, the more this story sits with me the more I love it. I'd definitely recommend this to fans of Red Rising, though I do think that this focused more on intellectual and political warfare.From the very start, I loved our main character, Vis. He's incredibly smart and skilled, but at they same time, it feels like he's still learning and just doing his best in a rough situation. I loved that he was always thinking 5 steps ahead and that he wasn't naïve in the slightest. Vis is pulled in so many directions in this book. I loved the friendships he made while in the academy (and how those friendships caused some dissonance in him due to his hate for the Hierarchy). Through the competitive nature of the academy - and just the structure of the Hierarchy in general - Islington was also super successful in creating an atmosphere of suspicion, where you're not sure whether you can fully trust anyone (no matter how much you like them).I truly had no idea what was going to happen at any point of this, and Islington managed to catch me off guard with multiple plot twists. My only complaint is that the mechanics of the magic system is still a bit murky for me, but I'm hoping we'll get more of that in the future.This book was incredibly complex and so well done. I now fully understand why many are hailing this as one of their favorite fantasy books of the year (me included), and I cannot wait to see where this series goes in the future!
6596233192	Blog | Instagram Rating: 4.5 stars It's not often that a book lives up to its hype, but 'The Will of the Many' defied the odds and was completely captivating from start to finish! Cover: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Writing: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Secondary characters: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Romance: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Narration & Audio: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 I was hooked from the very first sentence and the heartbreaking introduction to the main character, Vis Telimus. As the story unfolds, Vis’s backstory, personality, and motives are revealed, making it hard not to become invested in his journey. His struggles with loneliness and grief, along with his flaws—impulsiveness and a fiery temper—make his character even more relatable and layered. What I appreciated most was that, despite being thrust into the power struggles between the empire’s elite, Vis never becomes a passive pawn. He actively fights for his autonomy and beliefs, making every win and setback feel meaningful. However, there were moments when things felt a little too convenient, and Vis's ability to excel at everything made him seem almost invincible. "Confidence, real or perceived, has a peculiar power over people. " As Vis faces relentless challenges, the graphic action is expertly balanced with quieter moments that strengthen character dynamics and keep the story well-paced. The nuanced secondary characters are well-developed, with distinct traits and complexities that emerge through their interactions with Vis. Lanistia, Callidus, Eidhin, Ulciscor, and Relucia especially stood out to me due to the mysteries surrounding them. A touch of romance also adds warmth to the story, with cute moments and banter. The shocking twists and revelations scattered throughout the story made it hard to put down. This book also raises more questions than it answers, leaving me eager to dive into the next book. The immersive, vivid writing was another highlight that brought the corrupt Hierarchy empire and the action scenes to life. The Will-based magic system is seamlessly woven into the story and the backdrop of civil tension and rebellion adds fascinating layers of intrigue. Themes of systemic injustice and the complicity of the masses made the world even more compelling. My only nitpick is that the final reveals about the world were somewhat confusing to me. "there was no such thing as a harmless lie" For audiobook listeners, Euan Morton gave an exceptional performance. His expressive delivery, combined with immersive audio effects, character voices and accents, made for an amazing listening experience that perfectly suited the epic fantasy tale. You can also find more of my thoughts and discussion questions on my blog!
5567018733	Soft DNF I have got to stop listening to Reddit
6054443818	I thoroughly enjoy epic fantasy novels, so coming off the heels of the Mistborn trilogy, I had high hopes that The Will of the Many by James Islington would deliver. And boy, did it. In the 30 some odd hours it took me to feverishly read this tome, I felt a range of emotions: amazement at its grandeur, enamored by its complexity, and delighted by the sheer energy of the character journeys. But more than anything, I was in almost constant amazement at its world-building—from the many exciting locations, the scope of the framework, the sparse but extremely effective action sequences, and the way the book rewards you for its seemingly endless setup of the first 30% or so. It will probably come as no surprise that this is probably one of my favorite reads of 2023, and I cannot wait until the next book in the series releases.Our reticent hero is a teenager who resides in an orphanage and earns his mettle by battling foes in an arena and by keeping a watchful eye over prisoners in a dark, dank prison. (do not touch those sappers!)After a seemingly positive interaction with a Quintus, Vis is plucked from the orphanage and enrolled in a prestigious, albeit infamous, academy. But before he embarks on his epic quest, he must endure the training of Lanistia. A quick-witted and even-tempered character that is tasked with helping Vis go from zero to hero in a few short weeks.The training consists of all the regular superfluous studies you come to expect, including fighting, book smarts, magical concepts, passion, socialization, and immense puzzle solving. It’s all here, and Vis will need to channel all these teachings in order to succeed at Hogwarts the Academy.At its heart, the book is a coming-of-age story, and I applaud the minimalistic approach to the actual 'scene setting'—think broad brush strokes instead of illimitable detail. Typically, I usually champion equal parts detail and substance, but this book gives you just enough to flesh out the blueprints for yourself.The plot deepens and the extensive amount of setup begins to come to light when Vis enrolls in the academy and begins to uncover some of the murky truths surrounding the institution.But he does not go at it alone. The tone quickly changes from a fish-out-of-water scenario to being thrown into the deep end of the pool. As Vis moves up the class ranks, acquires more knowledge, and gains more friends, he learns that the tense puzzle games the students play may not be operating ‘above board’ and that the staff members might not be all that trustworthy.From here on out, it’s a cohesive collection of Enders Game sensibilities, anime puzzler-like twists, a tad bit of Battle Royal, a dash of Red Rising, a pinch of Maze-Runner, and last but certainly not least, a whole lot of fun!Bottom line is that it's engaging, and the characters are deep and well-rounded. The groundwork is set for more clever bits of story telling, and I will be first in line to get my eyes on the sequel. 🎵| Soundtrack |🎵 ❖ Avantasia – The Moonflower Society❖ The Beatles – Lucy in The Sky With Diamonds❖ Entombed – Left Hand Path❖ Journey – Wheel in The Sky ⭐ | Rating | ⭐ ❖ 5 out of 5 ❖
7387815901	ok but james didn't have to eat so hardBooktube | Instagram
5783047037	4.5 starsOkay this book had me SHAKING by the end. It’s the first fantasy book I’ve read in a long time that immersed me and that I actually enjoyed. With a lot of fantasy books, I either find the worldbuilding too overwhelming or slow or I find the characters one-dimensional and unconvincing. The Will of the Many struck an ideal balance between having a fast-paced, engaging plot (even if the first 100-150 pages were a little slow) and an interesting fantasy world. One major strength of this novel is the plot twists were genuinely surprising but not in a cheap way. Guessing certain characters’ motivations, the conflict between the three branches of government, the mysteries of the Academy… 150 pages in and I was hooked. I also liked the restrained and realistic relationship-building between our protagonist Vis and his friends and mentors (i.e., Lanistia because she was iconic). I felt genuinely moved at the end of the book by certain scenes with certain characters (keeping vague to avoid spoilers). Other reviewers critique that Vis is a Gary Stu though honestly I didn’t mind that because I was like… the real world is dark and disgusting enough right now so who cares if this protagonist’s morals and behaviors are pure and wholesome, lol.4.5 instead of 5 because I do think certain characters and relationships could have been further developed; I wish we had more time with Vis and his friends than Vis and his love interest which was kind of whatever to me. I’m also feeling a little confused by some of the tensions in the novel which detracted from the precision of the world-building and the book’s themes, though perhaps the confusing parts will be explained in future installments. Not a perfect novel though one that had me entertained, that’s for sure.
8080411818	4.5⭐️I knew this book was going to be good, but I didn't realize that it would be THAT good. I'm genuinely blown away cause this book was....just wow.This book was very much on the complicated and complex side of fantasy/sci-fi, but once you push past the confusing beginning, it makes it all entirely worth it. The magic system in this I would say is the most complicated part. This book was NOT easy; it took a lot of focus and energy and patience to really understand but I will say again, so worth it.James Islington has such a beautiful, deep way with words but I fell in love with from the very beginning. It's intense and complex, but as you continue through this book, it starts to make more and more sense. His story telling ability is completely unmatched. I was never bored while reading this; not for a damn minute.The reason this wasn't a five star for me was because the first part was a bit on the slower side compared to the other two, but I don't think it was bad by any means. This story is so heavily revolved around survival and learning to fight for those you love while staying true to your core values. I think the author did a wonderful job and showing the MC's fight and determination through the rebellion of the government and by the end of this book, I was a mess and sobbing.This book takes you on a journey through friendship and family and values/morals, and I truly don't think the author could have done a better job. This was a roller coaster and I was on the edge of my seat this entire book. I picked up the second book in this series literally today so after a short break, I can't wait to continue and see the next parts of Vis's story.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~𝓟𝓻𝓮-𝓡𝓮𝓪𝓭: 🤎🌆Ready to have my heart destroyed and my attention grabbed 🧎🏼‍♀️Also let's ignore the fact I bought this yesterday and am immediately reading it like my TBR isn't just staring at me...
8046314714	How does one put into words how incredible this book is? The Will of the Many lived up to all of the hype. This was an immersive fantasy read with the highest of stakes that frequently had me on the edge of my seat. Themes of power and inequity are at the forefront of this story - how do you get ahead in a system designed to work against you? Is complacency complicity? This book poses some powerful questions through the POV of Vis/Diago, who has lost everything to the Hierarchy. Presented with an opportunity to escape the fate he fears most, he must rise through the ranks of the elite Catenan Academy and unearth the deadly secrets that lie within the surrounding ancient ruins. With political tensions within the Hierarchy at an all time high, and a rogue rebel group willing to cut down anyone in their path to seize control for themselves, everyone has their own agenda, and Vis must rise to the top if he wants to survive.
6051941841	This book lived up to the hype. Absolutely loved the fact this high fantasy was written from 1st person point of view. This Dark Academia had some of the best characters I have come across. Need book 2 ASAP especially after the way it ended.
5813835827	“There comes a point in every man’s life where he can rail against the unfairness of the world until he loses, or he can do his best in it. Remain a victim, or become a survivor.” Last year I finished The Licanius Trilogy by James Islington, and it was fantastic. It features one of the best epilogues I’ve ever read—possibly my favorite of all time—but I did find the series a bit complex. The names, places, and plot twists were quite mind-boggling. So, I eagerly awaited Islington's next series, and when The Will of the Many was released, I was thrilled to see it receiving even more praise. With over 50,000 ratings and an average of 4.62, it’s a remarkable success.This new series has drawn comparisons to Pierce Brown's Red Rising, and at first, they do seem similar. Both are Roman-inspired, featuring a character infiltrating a corrupt system in search of answers. However, as I delved deeper, I found that each story stands on its own.Islington's writing has improved from his first series; it flows more smoothly and feels less complex while still being engaging. The pace is slow, requiring some patience, but there’s always something happening that kept me turning the pages.I’m a big fan of the magical school trope, and while I enjoyed its inclusion here, I wished it had been explored further to enhance our understanding of the world. The world-building itself was solid, but it felt somewhat restrained, leaving me wanting more. Then, out of nowhere, a mind-bending twist at the end changed the entire trajectory of the series, adding significant depth. “Victims can still be enemies.” In summary, I thoroughly enjoyed The Will of the Many. I had high expectations for the story, and it delivered in an unexpected way. The writing and characters were excellent, the world-building was good, and it ultimately left me wanting more. I have high hopes for this series, and with Islington at the helm, I feel confident we’re in good hands!
6125401534	4 to 4.5 I can’t decide ha⭐️That ending was mind bending… like what?? 🤯So much happened!! I felt like I read 3 different books. This is one of those books that feels like, “why do I need to know this, or what’s the point,” but by the end you can fully appreciate the journey. My main reason in for not giving it five stars is I was left a little confused on a few key elements. The world building was fairly easy to grasp, but I wanted more! What exactly is will? Is it pure energy? Is it straight up magic? I’m assuming all of my questions about the world/magic system will be answered in the next book.I cannot wait to see where the next book goes! An absolute epic start to this series!!
5153650079	Introducing: One of my best Fantasy book so far this year! easy 5 STARS, love it from page one until the end… while i read this book i sweat, my heart pounded, i feel like i want to pledge my life for the main character of this book because i care for him so much! so yeah… it’s basically one of the rare book that can gave me all the feels and truely make me remember why i love Fantasy and why i love to read. “AUDI.VIDE.TACE” (hear, see, be silent)The Will Of The Many is a Roman inspired story but with a touch of traditional fantasy and also has it’s own technology (yes it’s very unique and nothing like i have ever read), it has magical elite militery school so if you are a fan of dark academia story this can be an option for you to read. It’s a story about survival, bravery, being true to yourself and of course a heartwarming friendship, i also really love being inside the main character’s head Vis Telimus… he is cunning, brave, hot temper but also loveable, he basically has all the quality i love from a main character and in the end of the book i just want to die for him really 😂It will be painful to wait for the sequel but WOOW i just want to praise and thank James Islington for creating this story, it’s absolutely an amazing ride and he is soaring to my new fav author, i’ve read his book 1 of Licanius Trilogy but it feels like just an okay read… i think The Will Of The Many is a huge step up from him and i cannot wait to read more, 2024 need to come sooner please the ending just killed me 😭The Will Of The Many is definetly A MUST READ if you love Fantasy, HIGHLY recommend it and please meet my boy Vis 👍🏼👍🏼
5808388973	i understand nothing (iykyk)Read my mini review hereFollow me on Instagram
5148115457	Still slaps on reread. I think the weakest part of this book for me is the character depth of Vis (just a little too perfect for me) BUT the imagination is top tier and the complement of side characters is chefs kiss.
5185881915	my only issue is that i found Vis lacking a lot of personality, i think it would’ve been fine if so many people (booktubers) hadn’t pointed out him much they loved him bc i kept waiting for him to be lovable and i was just like ???
6035788669	Chain your anger in the dark, my mother used to tell me, and it will only thrive.Look. I didn't like The Shadow of What Was Lost by James Islington. I didn't continue reading that series after book one. But I haven't given up on the author. I thought that it would be unfair, and besides, after seeing a tremendous amount of people treating his next work, The Will of the Many like they just found the Holy Grail, I added this book to my tbr. I snatched it the moment it was released in my country. I can't say that I didn't have any worries, because that would have been a lie, but I think I was more excited than worried. I really wanted to love it, you guys. I really, really wanted to feel the same way the rest of you felt about it. And guess what, I did! I really did! It's official now: The Will of the Many took over my heart. I'm adding it 'my forever favorites' shelf as we speak and its MC becomes one of my favorite book heroes of all time (alongside Darrow from the Red Rising series) If you know me, you know I'm not easy to please. Not every book can get such praises from me. So the question is why? Why is this book different? Why did I felt so strongly about it?Let's dive in then (no worries, I will try to keep this review as spoiler-free as possible)!What's the book about:Stronger together. (the Hierarchy's catchphrase)The story follows Vis Solum (later named as Vis Telimus), who's living in Letens, one of the places that is ruled over by a worldwide Catenan Republic (also known as the Hierarchy). He's a teenage orphan who works in a prison and attends (illegal?) fights, trying to gain money to escape the city and find a place he could live freely. In truth, he is actually a prince and the only survivor of the royal family of the Suus kingdom, which was conquered three years ago by the Hierarchy. His plans are being interfered by well-known public person - a senator by the name of Ulciscor Telimus who adopts him in a very specific purpose. What Ulciscor needs from Vis is to attend the Catenan Academy and discover its hidden truths. If he fails the mission, he will end up imprisoned on the Sapper - where he will spend the rest of his life immobilized and forced to give his so-called Will (life energy, ability to concentrate, spiritual and physical strength) to other people, which is a fate worse than death.The MC: Vis TelimusI LOVE, LOVE, LOVE him! I love him with all my heart, with everything in me. If I only could, if only was it possible, I would shout out my love as loud as possible to the end of the earth. I never thought I will find a character who could compete with Darrow for no. 1 place as my favorite book character of all time, but here we are. Vis Telimus (I will name him this way, because he is introduced like this through most of the book) came through, crashed through the gates with a big ass explosion and gave his 100% to create a permanent place for himself in my heart."I know exactly how you feel," I mutter to it, carefully holding out a hand to indicate that I don't wish it any harm. "Maybe I should call you Diago." I laugh bitterly to myself.It wasn't love at the first sight, by any means. It wasn't also an unpleasant sensation turned into a positive one. I had fallen in love with him gradually, little by little, the more I had the pleasure to know him. I like the way his character had been portrayed in the book. He's a prince who's family had been brutally executed, the only survivor who's been left, so you might think that all he will focus on will be the feelings of anger and revenge. But despite the deep hurt and trauma that Vis is feeling about his past, all he wishes for is a normal life, as far away from the danger of the Sappers (and his true identity being discovered) as possible. He gets involved in the conflict between two forces: Ulscior (his adoptive father) and Veridius (the Academy master). I feel a deep awe and I deeply admire his mental and physical strength, his will to survive, his incredible cleverness and creativity, his ability to read people and adapt to any circumstances, his stubbornness to fulfill a once made promise no matter what, and also his beautifully kind-hearted nature. All of these traits are shown bit by bit, through big acts and small ones, from page one to the very end. He wouldn't say that about himself, but he's a true royal, not just by blood, but by nature. He's a very easy person to admire and a perfect material for a leader who gains following not by words, but by actions.My father's voice, like so often in my life, echoes in my head. The power to protect is the highest of responsibilities, Diago. When a man is given it, his duty is not only to the people he thinks are worthy.He was talking about leadership then, but I know what he would say to me now. Know what he would want me to do. Know what he would do. [Vis]What I also deeply love about his character is the way he always comes back to his late family members, mostly to his father - by thoughts and by his actions. It shows how deep of a bond they had with each other and how big of an impact the parents had on their son's personality and his decisions. It made my heart both warm and weepy, over and over again, to the very last page. The love the father and the son had for each other is just, it's so incredibly beautiful, it made me bawl my eyes out, because the dad is dead and the son is not, which means they keep on being apart and that's so unfair! "Easy to say, but it's in the way you bear yourself, Vis. The way you talk. I think you're so used to resisting, you don't know how not to." [Ulciscor]What I also like about him - and that could be surprising - are his anger issues and the way he keeps on being tangled in lies. He being a victim to his own anger and lies, over and over again. There is so much rage in him, which is understandable, and the boy, despite knowing better, keeps on making the mistake of releasing it. He's hating himself for it, he hates himself for lying, despite knowing that it's needed for his survival. He constantly worries what his father would say if he saw him now and if there is anything real left in him. I liked it a lot. It shows how imperfect he is. He feels more real, more natural. He feels more human, more vulnerable. And more relatable.My golden four of the story: Vis's friendsYou hurt any of them," I say softly, voice shaking, "and on my oath, I will burn you and the Anguis to the ground. No matter the cost." [Vis]I LOVE THEIR FRIENDSHIPS SO MUCH! Just as much as I love Vis' character, I might say. It didn't start in any positive way, none of these relationships did. From the very beginning it seemed like Vis wasn't looking for any closeness, despite feeling lonely, but through his mission in the academy, he couldn't help, but be closer and closer to his classmates. Their friendships were build up, slowly but surely, until I was sure that these four would give up their lives for one another. It was beautiful, and I loved it a lot. All three Vis' friends (I'm not naming them to not give any spoilers) are such a well-written characters, all had their (sad) backstories and all felt just as lonely, in their own ways, as Vis did. I wish to write more about it, but I would have to dive into spoiler section, and I don't want that. Just trust me, you will like these people a lot. Or so I hope.The story's brilliant mysteries.I'm still both confused and in awe about this. It's build up amazingly, you as a reader are thrown into it more and more, alongside Vis' journey, demanding more and more answers and having more and more questions instead. It's a truly incredible experience. I will not write more to not give up any spoilers - do NOT let yourself be spoiled in any way, dear reader! The construction of the story."Come on, Estevan. We're on the same side. We're not monsters." Estevan tilts his head up to the side, enough so that I can see his face. His eyes are red. Tears leak from them."We are what they make us, Diago."You might think that there will be just two opposite forces described: the Hierarchy (the oppressor) and the freedom fighters (the Anguis), and that Vis will have to choose one side - and easy one considering his past - and stick with it. But the story is much more complex than this. The oppressor is still an oppressor, and the freedom fighters are still freedom fighters, but it's much deeper than that, especially in the freedom fighters' area. There is plenty of politics' stuff, and magic stuff, and mysteries stuff, and history, and violence, and emotions and just people, being thrown in there and all trying their best to survive in the circumstances they live in. All you need to know is that nothing in this story is just black and white. Nothing is as it seems. There are plenty of twists and turns, moments that truly surprised me, so don't think that you know everything when you pick this book up, dear reader. The elephant in the room: the romanceI need to address this, because it will haunt me if I didn't. I didn't like it. At all. It felt completely unnecessary in the story, and besides, it was quite obvious where it was leading. The love interest was the only character in the book that felt like a one-dimentional character. The "I'm the nice girl" type, you know. She was just nice. Too nice, actually. Usually I love characters like this, but this time all I felt when she kept on showing up was irritation. All she did was spin around Vis like a freaking satellite, over and over again. Both, her and Vis, should stay away from each other, for different reasons, and both truly knew better, but of course, they didn't, because they just couldn't resist the love pull, I guess *sigh*Overall, it was such a wonderful journey for me, I'm honestly quite speechless and how much love I felt for it. Of course, I expected to enjoy it. Who picks a book up expecting to not have a good time? But I truly hadn't anticipated to feel so much for it. I'm eagerly waiting for book two to be released so I can finally found out Vis' fate and and get answers to the big ass list of questions I had after I finished reading book one. Especially when it comes to the epilogue, because what the hell was that?! I did not understand anything and I'm dying here, I need to know what is going on!!
5760751704	No.
5444450089	WHAT THE FUCK WAS THAT??????? WHERE IS BOOK 2 IT IS A NEED
5443974162	4.0 StarsVideo Review: https://youtu.be/RTOeOkkD68sThis is a solid new fantasy story that draws inspiration from ancient Roman culture. I'm not the biggest fan of gladiator action but I really enjoyed it when the story moved on to the magic school setting. The mystery made a fair amount of suspense and intrigue. I read this author's debut and am pleased to see he'd grown in his writing and storytelling. This novel felt much more mature and complex. There were still some slower section, but overall an enjoyable read. I look forward to reading the next entry.
6040174089	If you heard a noise that closely resembled a dying animal screeching at the top of it’s lungs approximately 10 minutes ago don’t be alarmed it was just me 😵‍💫😵‍💫😵‍💫I FEEL LIKE I GOT HIT BY A BUS. NO A TRAIN.NoO a BULLET TRAIN.I thought I was following everything well, I felt like it was making sense then BOOM.I’ll be in coma until the next book is out thanks
6231712547	This book deserves ALL the hype! I can see why people are raving about it and I see this being a lasting favorite on the fantasy scene. The Will of the Many is an expertly crafted political fantasy with sci-fi elements that is deceptively easy to read. The writing is very accessible and fluid, making the story breeze by. It's reminiscent of Brandon Sanderson's writing, but tends to get less bogged down in unnecessary details. A coming of age story, we follow a young orphan who is secretly the last living heir to a conquered royal family. He ends up being adopted by a nobleman with an axe to grind and is enrolled in an elite academy with dangerous secrets. His new father has secret tasks for him to complete, but he's also being manipulated by a resistance organization. Plus the school can be brutal...This had so many unexpected twists and mysteries, some left unsolved by the end of this first book. I loved the characters and was fascinated by the world. The magic system is based on technology that drains will from lower class people for the powerful to wield. The main character objects to the use of Will in this way and has refused to participate, but the way the story unfolds will test his resolve. I'm so impressed by this and also had a fantastic time reading it! Definitely a new favorite for me.
5767607428	This book is getting incredibly high praise. Reviewers have already said this will be in there top 3 reads of the year. So I went into it with high expectations, as one would for a book by this author. You can’t help but get excited when you here adult magical school setting, though I’m actually not the biggest fans of school settings, I don’t dislike them, I just don’t sought after them like a lot of others do.This book is like a pizza, the dough is Roman era time period, the stuffed crust is gladiator, the toppings are Red Rising, name of the wind and every fantasy trope in existence, this is the pizza you’d get.And I ate that pizza.It honestly is a great book for the summer because my god it’s going to last you, this thing is chonky. The magic system here involves the usage of will and the more will you have, the stronger you are. Our main characters family is murdered by the bad guys and he’s now an orphan and wants to reinvent himself when he decides to run away and find a way to get revenge by joining this elite academy run by the bad guys basically. There is so much to love here. But I’ll be honest, this took me a while to get into. You really don’t know what’s happening half the time, it’s a lot of piecing together yourself. Where I stand is I didn’t care for the very beginning, loved the middle and didn’t care for the ending. It’s book you need to where you need to reread some passages to fully comprehend the scene. Overall I gave this 4 out of 5 stars.
6016888648	FIVE FULL STARS FROM ME???? IT'S A CHRISTMAS MIRACLE 😫😫😫On reread: 6 stars. This book is freaking awesome and I'm doubling down on my disagreement with all of the critiques that I've seen. Sorry you're wrong. 🤣🤣Also audiobook is fantastic!
5452478337	You ever put off a book because you know, even before it releases, you’ll love it because you love the author and this particular fantasy niche? Guilty as charged.Believe the hype. Vis is an orphaned royal, his family was executed and his land taken over by the Hierarchy. Later on, he is recruited for a prestigious, cutthroat Academy and tasked with rising through the ranks to uncover a secret for his sponsor and to secure his own future, away from the Will of the Hierarchy.It takes a while to get to the Academy which lets Islington to flesh Vis out first. We see him brawling in fights, being taken advantage of and beaten in the orphanage, training hard knowing that he is one misstep away from death. Then, we get the Academy which is filled with strategy, fighting and ride-or-die friendships. Despite the Academy being promoted as based on merit, it is easy to see how prejudice and bias alters this. “They ask something small of you. A thing you would prefer not to do, but is not so terrible. You think you are working your way up, but in fact they are changing you. Moulding you into what they think you should be, one compromise at a time.”Vis is stubborn, quick to anger, prideful, and careful. He’s guarded to those around him, but as readers, we see him laid bare. To survive he has to adapt to a system he hates and that destroyed his home. However, how far will he bend before he snaps? Becomes part of the system or reveals his true identity. This is my kind of book. Epic, high fantasy filled with politics, morally grey sides to pick between, and a greater something looming. The last chapter gave me whiplash. Petition for Saga Press to send arcs to UK reviewers, please!🙏🏼 BookstagramTiktok
6785760643	My stomach is in absolute knots. I literally don’t even know what to say except this is one of the best books I’ve ever read. & it’s book #1 in a fantasy series!!!! The plot was NONSTOP & the character dynamics were delicious. Marking my calendar for book #2.
6818739706	EXCUSE ME???????! 🤯🤯🤯
5704227603	Incredible!Islington's debut trilogy,The Licanius Trilogy was an ambitious attempt at high concept ideas in fantasy and in my opinion, was executed brilliantly, making it one of my all-time favourites. The Will of the Many was another audaciously high concept narrative, and an improvement over his debut as Islington appeared to have honed his craft even further. I was amazed and stunned by the end of this book, and if Licanius was anything to go by, the sequels are going to be mind-blowing. I can't wait for the next book already!!
5903285783	DNF @ 33%. What. A. Mess. Such an interesting concept and world-buillding completely ruined by the most perfect and boring protagonist ever. Who's somehow the smartest, strongest, most morally correct person ever? Did I mention he's smart? Becuase HE AND EVERYONE AROUND HIM DOES EVERY 3 PAGES.
5685074763	*4.25. Mas favoritado!
7445947227	3,75⭐"Wola Wielu", to porządna książka. Ma wady, charakterystyczne dla twórczości Islingtona, ale ma też zalety, które posiadał Licanius.Uważam, że jest to najpoprawniej skonstruowana książka tego autora. Nigdy jednak nie określiłbym jej mianem arcydzieła. Ale to nic złego, ciągle nie wszystko musi nim być.Recenzja: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H4rdd...
6388274889	I went on the hype train with Christopher and it was a hell of a ride. I was hooked from the first chapter and devoured the book as fast as I possibly could, which means I'm currently very sleep deprived so I apologize if this is not the most coherent review. This book has everything I love in fantasy: interesting magic system with a huge development potential, political intrigue, friendship, betrayals, mystery and a great title. This book reminded me a lot of other books, but if feels original and it was flawlessly executed. James Islington writing is very captivating and I loved how he guides us through the story-line, and how he plants clues and the seeds for future expansion. I absolutely love the reluctant hero trope and Vis is no exception! He was one of my favorite things in the book and I loved to see everything unfold through his eyes. Although he's a bit of a Gary Sue, he's so instantly likable that I'm prepared to defend his honor to anyone who dares criticize him. I can't wait to keep seeing him grow into the amazing leader we already know he is.The ending?? It's obviously a cliffhanger but it was incredibly good and I can't wait to see how everything will unfold.The Will of the Many will live rent free in my brain until the second installment is out (I need it desperately). This is a MUST read for Fantasy readers and I would advise you to go in as blind as you possibly can. P.S - I have minor issues with the female characters in this book. I don't think James Islington did a great job describing them... they all have cascading hair (which may be brown, red and probably blond, but I'm not even sure). To be completely honest, they could be interchangeable and read mostly the same to me, except we are supposed to like some more than the others. However, we do have women in the story, and they have roles (albeit limited) besides looking pretty, working in pubs or being SA, so all in all, I can't complain. I'm curious to know how he's going to develop their future roles as the whole society is highly patriarchal (this is no surprise as it is based on Roman Empire), but the school setting gives as a false sense of equality.
6466060256	4.5🌟The way my jaw just DROPPED at that ending, seriously though why didn’t I record a video?In an expansive empire Vis is a fugitive living under the guise of an orphan. But suddenly in a move for power, he is adopted by a wealthy senator and shipped off to the best school in the empire to spy. I’m not going to say too much because this book is oh so twisty 🤭If I were to ask Brandon Sanderson to write dark academia I think he would come up with something like this. The vibes of this book were just HITTIN’ HARD perfect autumn vibes. And the fact that Vis rivals Aelin in the main character's lovable-ness category is quite a statement indeed. (I think I just have a soft spot for characters who are the smartest person in the room and THEY KNOW IT) But these characters were some of the most well-written characters I’ve read in a while. Seriously though I was looking up character art on page 50, and now I have a Pinterest board. The plot was so well written it gave me such visceral reactions that my friend sitting next to me was like "Millie, you good?" Let’s be honest most people would probably be scared of a 600 paged book with minuscule text, but I was reading so fast it kinda flew by. But after about 100 pages, I was offcially in the depths and was reading 200+ pages a day. Also the foreshadowing that this man has used has officially blown my skull off, another author going into the "wizard" catagory. The only reason I knocked a half a star down is it was a little slow in the beginning.Overall it checks all the boxes for me in the fantasy catagory, and I am now going to go preorder the second book.And if this review doesn’t convince you to pick up this book, let me just point you in the direction of this book’s average rating 😏UPDATE: THE PREORDER ON AMAZON ISNT UP YET AND IMA CRY, LITERALLY WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO DO WITH MYSELF UNTIL MAY 6TH?!?!!?UPDATE: I just found out it’s not publishing September…im taking antidepressants as we speak.
5797995391	That was spectacular. Easily a book of the year candidate and very likely an all timer for me. Everything was perfect. The depth is magnificent. The prose is gentle and calming. The characterisation is chefs kiss. What an incredibly special book, it’s just so beautifully eloquent. The wait for book 2 is going to be painful.An absolute must read for any fans of the fantasy genre.
5979833335	After reading red rising I came back here immediately to tell you that this book is a cheap copy of red rising series by pierce brown.The magic system is not clearly explained and It's 150 pages too long. My Angry RantI don't know how to rate this book. I am 50/50 on this one. There were some great parts and then there were parts that were absolutely boring. This book needed a serious trim of at least 150-200 pages. It felt like the author had no clue how to end a scene or move the plot forward. I felt like this book dragged on forever. There were some good moments, sure, but they were buried under a pile of dull pages. Also, I found how the book was structured problematic. It alternated between playing some kind of competitive game at the academy and attending some sort of event/festival. It got boring and repetitive quite quickly. The story only progressed when our main characters, Vis, was outside the academy attending some random event or festival. The book had some redeeming qualities. The plot was intriguing and the idea was original. The book draws inspiration from real life, where the rich and powerful manipulate the system to their advantage, often at the expense of working class and poor people. The Leeching is a metaphor for the unfair and oppressive distribution of wealth and power in the world, where the elite benefit from the labor and suffering of the masses. The book raises questions about the ethics and consequences of such a system, and the possibility and cost of changing it. The ending was seriously mind-blowing. I had to Google it and read some reddit posts to confirm my theories about the ending, and oh boy, was I wrong . I am excited for the next book, suffice to say. Despite the great conclusion, I could not ignore the numerous shortcomings of this book. charactersThe only character who mattered was Vis, and everyone else was just a prop to make him look good. He climbed the pyramid with no challenge or conflict and whatever conflict did come his way the author kicked them out of his way quite conveniently. In this book, everyone strangely wanted to help Vis climb the pyramid, even though it was a highly competitive environment where people should be looking out for themselves. Vis was the only one who made progress in the academy, everyone else was stuck in their classes and didn't climb up. The stakes weren't high and despite all the mistakes vis made he never got caught!The characters and their story arcs were poorly developed and lacked personality. The author described one of the characters named Eidhin as “the guy with red hair” or “the muscular guy” every time he appeared. It was so absurd, but he was still better off than the rest of the characters who got no distinctive features or descriptions at all. Callidus was our main character's encyclopedia running on bad connection. He only shared his wisdom when Vis needed to know that information, not a moment before. I often found myself scratching my head thinking why he didn't share this information sooner ? Magic System & World BuildingI tried really hard to understand the magic system based on will power but the author did his absolute worse to explain it. He used one vague word to explain another vague word. Then he kept throwing words like "conditional imbuing of will", "reactional imbuing of will" without any explanation as to what these things actually are. I eventually gave up on understanding the magic system and kept reading. Some of it got explained but most of it remained vague. I had to fill in the gaps with my own knowledge of fantasy books cos the author wasn't doing a good job of explaining things. Vis had some crucial training before he entered the academy, which gave him an unrealistic and poorly written advantage. It would have been more believable if he had advanced only one or two steps, but his two months of training took him to the third level. This made me wonder about the difficulty of the academy and the intelligence of the other students; was the academy really challenging or was everyone in it just dumb ? Vis was a flawless genius who never lost anything. He always won, even when he was utterly reckless. He was proficient in every language, game, and strategy. There was nothing he could not do, and he was only 17 years old. Final thoughtsThis book was good! I enjoyed it, even though the magic system and the world were not very clear. It had quite a few weak points, but it was still entertaining. I'm looking forward to the next book, whenever it comes out. 3 starsWriting: ⭐⭐⭐Plot: ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Characters: ⭐⭐⭐ World building ⭐⭐
6155919307	Pro-tip: The fastest way to get me to read a book is to be a non-avid reader and lend me a physical copy of a book because it was so good you read it in two days. Only works if you’re a close friend and do it once per year maximum, but I will pick up the book immediately if the requirements are met.
7460065283	Jedyne co mogę zrobić, to nagrodzić tę książkę owacją na stojąco
5976910318	Rating: 4.5⭐️The ending sent me to hell, heaven and then the psych ward. Reading vlog (with spoilers at the end): https://youtu.be/-Yyv25XjjZ4
7246439532	Read for this fantasy reading vlog: https://youtu.be/SjKt0n3fjJsWritten review on the way!
5632696563	TL;DR: I hated the main character and the worldbuilding, but the plot had some cool twists Things I Take Issue With: - This was pitched to me as a “magic school story” and there is. No. Magic. In fact, students are forbidden from starting to use magic (this would be intriguing if someone ever tries to break that rule, but they don't. They're just content to learning magical theory). The only thing that actually happens at the school is obstacle courses and physical fighting, so this is more of a war college than anything. I actually don’t understand the magic system in this world at all because it is never truly discussed. The only glimpses into how the students will learn about magic are the semi-frequent info-dumps of Vis saying “this class was harder than anything I’d done so far. In this class we learned about theories on Will distribution and Conditional Imbuing….” We don’t actually go into those classrooms to get to know the intricacies of Will distribution or how Imbuement works or what those Conditions are (lots of Capital Letter Concepts here, and no explanation). I *think* the magic system here involves making normal items somehow magical, but there are also people who can make themselves magically stronger? Who’s to say, because the story certainly doesn’t. The story also falls into the trap where Vis says he can’t do something that is then immediately solved by magic a few chapters later ((view spoiler)[At 64% Vis laments: “I can’t freely communicate with Ulciscor before the trimester break” in order to pass his adopted father information. But at 68% his adopted mother gives him “A stylus. Will-locked to one on my end, Conditionally activated by wax. You will write everything you learn, and then break it.” So WHY DIDN’T WE USE THE MAGIC PEN EARLIER?! I don’t believe that Vis’s father doesn’t know how to Imbue a stylus with Will, or that he wouldn’t want updates on the information Vis is gathering. (hide spoiler)]) - Vis is an insufferable Gary Stu. His meteoric rise through school is usually attributed to his having been tutored on everything they’re learning in his past as a prince. But we also see NOTHING of his family save for a scant handful of flashbacks, and the bulk of that is the occasional moment with his father. Classes are difficult for a sentence or two and then Vis is answering every question the teacher poses. The school uses a different combat system than Vis is used to, but thank goodness he’s already been trained in swords from childhood because with just a little practice, he’s able to trounce the best swordsman in the school when he’s challenged. He is elitist in his world views, being a fallen prince who grew up with servants and tutors, and comes across as a spoiled brat in a lot of his inner monologue (which is our exclusive vantage point, since this is 1st person POV). Showing my work: - 23%: “If I’m being honest, back at Suus, I would have had her replaced as a tutor within the first week.” - 42%: “half the time, the lectures cover things I learned before fleeing Suus.” - 59%: “That makes me confident. Sword work was something I trained at every day - literally every day - for more than five years at Suus.” - 66%: “Oratory skills which were merely taught in previous classes—and which, to be fair, I have ample training in from my younger years”- There are frequent distasteful (i.e. fatphobic) character descriptions. There were so many characters described as “fat but muscle-y” and very often these are unlikeable or straight up villainous people. The description began to feel lazy and pointed. Showing my work: - 6%: “His thick bulk is mostly muscle..” - 24%: “He stirs as he registers my presence, and fat jiggles around his chest and stomach. There’s heavy muscle lurking beneath that outer layer though” - 42%: “Despite his paunch there’s no doubt he must have once been a strong man” - 53%: “it’s clear there’s still plenty of muscle within that bulk.” Things I Stand By: - The ending was wild and so, so good. The last three chapters really ramped up the stakes and left me intrigued. I was all set to not continue the series just because I found Vis to be so unpleasant to be around for 600+ pages, but that ending was unfortunately so interesting I might keep an eye out for reviews to see if Book 2 focuses more on the magic and less on How Great Vis Is.- There are some great scenes fraught with tension and action. There’s a cool mix of spy/heist plot points and a greater mystery that propels the plot forward. Vis is placed squarely between two parties with differing goals and him navigating that is interesting to watch.
6021353194	This, right there is a six star read!!!I will need 3-5 working days to process it. Reading this book was so overwhelming. The complexity of the story, unique magic system, versatility of characters, a constant feeling that everyone's motivation is questionable, i've never felt so much emotions reading a book. There were so many twists and turns i had never seen coming. never read anything like this before!
7491537973	I love a book where the only singular character I trusted dies brutally :)
6015612518	I can’t think thoughts. That was … amazing. Jaw-dropping. Confusing. Devastating. Incredible. Six stars. THE PREMISE: an orphan with a hidden identity serves unrelenting c*nt as he goes undercover at an elite academy to try and solve a mystery. TROPES & VIBES: - Immaculate world-building and unpredictable plot - Roman Empire aesthetic - Dark academia x “eat the rich” vibes - Amazing writing - Books that made me cry- Incredible plot twists and a cliffhanger ending that bodied me (I didn’t pick a single thing!)6⭐️ No🌶️ (not a romance)
5770819887	4.5-5🌟What. The. Fuck.The plot, the world building, THAT ENDING - 10/10. One of the best written fantasies I’ve read. My only complaints - sometimes there was more telling than showing. I wanted more on page time of Vis and his friends because I loved them together. and I thought the romance was unnecessary and kind of bland. But seriously, everything else is brilliant. I never once saw any of the plot twists coming. So so unique and my brain is in a puddle after that ending 🤯 like, WHAT?
7437093965	ADJFLDFBHEOGH3RPFJ3RPHG3PROG?!?#!?@!?!?#!?!?????????????????????????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5154095287	Edited for second read:I reread this in preparation for The Strength of the Few. And it's still a brilliant, 5 star read for me! _____________________________________________________________Hands down my favorite fantasy read of the year so far! I loved every single second of this book. I can easily see this being my favorite book of the year. If you love magic schools, stories of rebellion, a tightly-paced plot, high intrigue and original world-building, you need to pick up The Will of the Many! I will admit the story does begin like many other fantasy/sci-fi books I have read, including the Red Rising Series by Pierce Brown. Vis, an orphan with many secrets, catches the eye of Ulsicor Telimus, a high ranking military senator. Telimus adopts Vis, not out of the kindness, but because he wants Vis to help him infiltrate The Catenan Academy, a school run by Religion where the highest ranking students learn to become leaders in the ruling class. But the story quickly becomes it’s own unique world. Along the way we learn more about Vis’ past, about the world of the Hierarchy and the mysterious history of the pre-Cataclysm.The friendships Vis develops along the way gives this story so much emotional depth. I absolutely adored the friendship dynamics between Vis and several characters he meets at the Academy. It swept me up in all the feelings! Not one was I ever bored while reading this book. The pacing was immaculate! Every chapter held intrigue, twists and turns were everywhere, and every chapter I learned more about both the world and the characters. Not one scene was out of place or used as filler. And that ending? What? I have never needed to read a sequel more than when I finished the last chapter of this book. For as expansive as this world already is, we have only scratched the surface of what we’re about to learn. To say I’m excited to read The Strength of the Few next year is an understatement. It’s easily my most anticipated book for 2024! *Thank you to NetGalley and Gallery/Saga Press for a digital arc. All opinions are my own.
7476829131	I’m blown away. Seriously- who is this author? Who is the mastermind that wrote this book? I’m usually stingy with my praise and I always have 5-6 issues (minimum) per book to gripe about, but not this time. I can’t think of a single thing I disliked. There is a big focus on interpersonal relationships, which I love, especially when they are handled well. And believe me, the hand that handled them was deft. The surprising thing about this book is that it employs a lot of overused tropes and makes no attempt to subvert them, but it doesn’t seem to matter. Everything about this book feels fresh. The main character is riddled with flaws and feels like a living, breathing homo sapien. He’s no Average Joe, though- he’s a shooting star. This is the most engaging type of character IMO: troubled, but ingenious. I could keep raving on, but I’d be tiptoeing into spoiler territory, and I just couldn’t.
7826248519	3⭐️I wanted to love it so much that I almost expected live changing experience. Going to say it is a good book but I Definitely needed more answers though:). I would probably welcome more world building, and background informations about “ the will” and whole magic system. Vis is a good MC - smart and intelligent but the relationships with side characters felt shallow. I think I expected too much and this experience was a bit underwhelming. I was loving the first half TBH.
8044524992	“Near four years of scars opened in an instant, I’m so alone, I whisper to him. I feel the words with all my hopeless heart.”
6299480297	The Will Of The ManyESSE LIVRO É FÚRIA VERMELHA SÓ QUE 1000 VEZES MELHOR.Eu já tinha visto um certo hype em cima desse livro desde que ele foi lançado lá fora no passado e todo mundo elogiando e falando bem e os surtos estavam altíssimos então já tinha colocado na minha lista pra ler então recentemente um amigo meu começou a ler e perguntei o que ele tava achando ele disse que estava muito bom e que era pra mim ler porque se eu gostei de fúria vermelha ia amar esse porque era muito melhor que fúria vermelha e ela estava 100% certo esse livro pega o a vibe de fúria vermelha e faz uma história completamente épica com a sociedade sendo dividia em classes do oitavo que é o mais baixo até o principalis que é o patamar mais alto e nessa história acompanhamos o protagonista Vis que não temos muitas informações sobre ele logo de cara só que ele é um órfão e que está na classe sétimo a penúltima da hierarquia e vemos como algumas oportunidades surgem pra ele e o colocam na academia que dá aos alunos a possibilidade de subir de classe se mostrarem que tem potencial e o Vis vai ter que tentar subir não só só por terem colocado expectativas nele mas também por seus próprios objetivos e o desenvolvimento desse livro é incrível o jeito que a história é contada a relação dos personagens achei o Vis faz boas amizades como Calidus, o Eidhin, a Emissa, a Aequa entre outros mas também fica na mira de algumas pessoas perigosas agora falando sobre os plot twist da história tem uns muito bons mas o final do livro nos 45 do segundo tempo tem um plot twist de explodir o cérebro sério eu tava lendo e voltei até às páginas pra ver se era aquilo mesmo e até mandei mensagem pro meu amigo pra ele me explicar se era aquilo kkkkk acho que o que define o final desse livro é EU TAVA DE COLETE MAIS O TIRO FOI NA TESTA LITERALMENTE KKKKK, sério foi muito surto e depois desse final eu não faço ideia de pra onde a história vai mas se o autor desenvolver os próximos livros como foi esse tenho certeza será épico da mesma maneira enfim recomendo demais esse livro que é o primeiro de uma trilogia leiam essa obra prima e surtem com esse universo sensacional criado pelo autor e que venha a sequência.
6069003247	My jaw is still on the floor…that ending!! I can’t stop thinking or talking about this book.—-*just finished my re-read, I’m ready for book 2 🙌🏼
7211335071	I’m speechless. This was one of the best books I’ve ever read. And that ending… I need the next book yesterday!
6897826672	Има някои видове книги, които никога не омръзват на детето в нас. Естествено, всичко много зависи дали са адресирани до тъкмо това дете. Което, да си признаем, болшинството актуални генерични сюжетни матрици изобщо не нацелват, колкото и шарени корици и тик ток аплодисменти да впрегнат. “Волята на мнозинството” е неспирно, задъхано приключение в пищния псевдоримски свят на Йерархията, в който волята е ресурс в буквалния смисъл на думата. Тя задвижва механизми, твори изкуство, строи градове… и води войни. А също е и разменна монета, която е жълти стотинки за малцината могъщи, и непостижим блян за мнозинството онеправдани (често със собственото им съгласие). Едни вземат и имат много, други само дават и нямат нищо, дори живот. На този фон всички клишета за съзряващия младия герой са на предна линия, и доставят страхотно удоволствие с приятните си, изненадващи комбинации. Герой със загадъчно минало. Борба за оцеляване. Скок от хвърчащо превозно средство. Заговори. Атентати. Тайнствена академия. Състезание с (не)предизвестен край. Загадки от миналото. Килии и арени. Приятели и врагове. Двубои. Даже вълк! Страшно се забавлявах през цялото време, като Диаго/ Вис е приятно неприятен герой, когото авторът е предпазил от крайните клишета на жанра. Което не пречи на моменти Вис да е кръстоска между Супермен, Сун Дзъ, юнакът в битка с триглавата ламя и саркастична червена барета с 20 годишен боен опит. Но пък нали точно това е отчасти чарът на жанра!Динамиката е съпроводена от изненадваща липса на розовина, което е дълбока глътка свеж въздух. Леко ме разочарова фактът, че някои от второстепенните герои не бяха достатъчно развити, както и непремереното изобилие чудеса, за да бъде всичко перфектно, но с радост ще налазя продълженията, когато авторът най-сетне ги напише - с надежда, че там вече героите ще се разгърнат с пълния си потенциал.4,5⭐️——————————————————————————————🏛️ “Victims can still be enemies”🏛️“Silence is a statement, Diago. Inaction picks a side. ”🏛️“A fair system only works if there’s an unbiased means of assessing merit.”🏛️“If all you’re trying to do is change who’s in control, then you don’t really want to change anything”🏛️“You cannot be free if you are afraid to die.”🏛️“Don’t mistake inaction for neutrality”🏛️“Don’t equate having less heart with more intelligence.”🏛️“The Hierarchy value life, but they do not respect it. ”
6044256777	˖ ࣪ ⟡˚ 3.75 stars ˚⟡ ࣪ ˖ on my first read i gave this a 4 star and i thought that for sure my rating would improve upon my reread… well… it dropped. only by 0.25, but it did.i found myself so annoyed with Vis’ character and how incredibly bland he was—i genuinely felt no emotion towards him. he was so unrelatable. i’d go as far to say that all his peers were better characters, as they felt like they at least had some sort of personality.the world-building still confused me a bit, especially at the end there (iykyk), but other than that, i really enjoyed the book.hopefully SOTW delivers!!!
