2801684733	NOW AVAILABLE!!this book is campy and silly while dealing with some very serious subject matter and all those earnest hand-wringing folks will likely ask if this is what we “need” right now as a society, but today—seduced by the unexpected option—i bought lavender-scented roach spray, and now i will forever associate bug-extermination with vaporized grannies, so there are a lot of things we do not need as a society, but which make unpleasant things just a little bit weirder. and that’s what this book does: it takes predatory teenage boys, sexually exploited teenage girls, and the blind eyes and cover-ups of responsible adults and makes it weirder than an SVU rerun, rompier than a lifetime original movie, less of a soul-crushing depression bomb than a news story. this one is, dare i say?—fun, and i needed some fun right now, even if that fun is sculpted around a rotten core of humiliation and blackmail and revenge.if it sounds like this book trivializes rape culture and the objectification of women, i’ve explained it poorly. it doesn’t diminish the seriousness of the problem to offer a book with a lighter tone about that problem. you can buy your acrid-chemical-scented bug spray and feel confident that it is addressing your issue. or you can address the issue and also have some humorous images in your head as you do so.like spraycan grannies.and this book’s helpful blowchart:it’s a breathlessly quick read, and the pacing ushers the reader over some of the book’s undeniable potholes: yes, there are too many characters and only a few are narratively significant; yes, the villains are very villain-y and there’s not a lot of nuance; yes, it’s convenient that all of a sudden, this longstanding and verrrrrry secret society of rich lazy white boys is outed en masse, simultaneously, in a creative writing class survey; yes, a prank escalation seems like a disproportionately mild response to the situation, but be aware that escalation can really…escalate. what starts with a stolen scooter sometimes ends…more dramatically.it's a fun and funny book, and while it may not be as #metoo #messageheavy as other recently published books on the subject, that doesn't mean it is without lessons about life and love.“You don’t make a spork for a guy you’re not into.”something to keep in mind...come to my blog!
2796304495	A new teacher at a third-rate boarding school assigns to her creative writing students the task of answering what appear to be innocent questions. The answers reveal much more than she anticipated not only about the students themselves but about hidden activities occurring at the school. Cleverly done, with a powerful message this novel is amusing as well as uncomfortable. What bothered me most was that a friend’s son spoke of a similar situation at his high school so despite the humor contained within the book there is some degree of truth present. “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned?” Maybe. In this instance it’s more like hell hath no fury like teen-aged girls who have been exploited, objectified and humiliated. Believe me, these girls aren’t fooling around.
2768966483	Dang it. Honestly, it pains me to give this one anything less than a stellar review, as Lisa Lutz is one of my favorite authors, and I credit her Spellman Files series to getting me out of a multi-year reading slump. All that to say, please take this review with a grain of salt, and know full well that I could be the outlier here, due to the fact that I know she can write the heck out of a story. Perhaps the fact that this one felt so off base from her previous works is what threw me off initially, so the predictable nature of this story left me underwhelmed and unsatisfied. There are a lot of characters in this story, and it was quite difficult keeping them all straight and determining just why some were even included. I love a good challenge in my reading, but I need for it to have purpose and meaning, not to just be used as a plot device to bloat the page count. Upon finishing this book, I'm hard pressed to tell you what genre this book technically falls. Overall, I got a heavy YA vibe from the voices of the characters, setting, and plot, yet I'm unsure that this would actually appeal to the YA audience, which could be why I'm waffling around this detail. I guess there is a mystery at hand, but I can guarantee at least half of the reading population will figure it out early and be sorely disappointed at the payoff after such buildup. Overall, I'm sure you can tell I didn't connect well with this one, but I still hold the author in the highest regard and will continue to search for future work from her. I highly recommend you give this one a try for yourself, as this could be the book for you if the synopsis sounds appealing! *Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy via NetGalley.
2815495203	At the beginning of this book I thought, "Okay, this clearly takes place in a fictional universe of boarding school novels where we have dropped all pretense that anything in it is real or related to real life." And I was willing to suspend my disbelief for that. Boarding school novels can be campy fun or dark microcosms of teenage misbehavior. I'm down for that. This is a school where the staff is made up of *checks notes* six adults while there are 400 students, though we only ever meet about ten of these students and the rest of them seem to not actually exist. Okay, whatever, let's do it.Around a third of the way through I thought, "Okay, we're going to get some interesting gender wars here. Maybe this is satire? It could be satire. Nothing in it feels all that satirical but the lack of realism and the committed-to-weirdness plot could mean satire. Let's wait for some sharp topical insight." And I waited. I should have stopped reading it once I'd given it some more space and still couldn't get my bearings. But I like Lisa Lutz, I've read several of her novels, I thought her last one was her best so far, I figured she had to have something smart waiting for me. But at the end I was just mad enough to want to throw this book.There does not seem to be much of a point to it all. Teenage boys are terrible. Girls decide to fight back. Things escalate. It's not going to end well. The broad strokes are not exactly new, in this kind of scenario it's all about the details. And the details here never meshed. The teenage boys are so terrible they are irredeemable. We get one as a narrator who helps out the girls and maybe he's supposed to be sympathetic, but he never seems to take any responsibility for his bad actions. (No one takes any responsibility in this book because the terrible teenage boys are capable of such ridiculous revenge that no one dares, which... what??? But I guess that's okay in a book where not only are the teenage boys capable of these dramatic acts of revenge, they are also apparently capable of keeping a secret for years that they also then all decide to stop keeping for the same school assignment? I'm sorry I could do this for HOURS but I will not.) The teachers are truly awful for no real purpose except to maybe remind us that adults are just older teenagers. There is no explanation for so much awfulness, so I guess you could see this as one of those super dark books like Fight Club where everyone is just so totally effed-up that that is the point but this book sure seems to think the girls are at least mostly justified so I don't think that's it either! The teacher who is the closest thing we have to a protagonist is at an odd remove from the action and it's unclear what she even has to do with anything besides give us some B plot. I do not know why Lutz's usual darkly comic gifts have failed her so utterly here, sometimes a bit would land but none of them ever stuck that landing. And given the amount of manipulation, sexual coercion, sharing of images of underage children, and all on display, it feels like it should all DO something. It should mean something or take you somewhere. We live in a world with so much misogyny, it's not that we don't want some humor with it, it's just that if we're going to get it in our entertainment it's still going to hurt so you have to make it worth it. You have to give us something to believe in or laugh at or get excited about. To its credit, this book does have a truly excellent flowchart called The Blowchart that they should give out to actual teenagers because it is very good advice.I do not think this book has much to say that is useful or interesting about feminism or patriarchy or teenage misogyny and manipulation. If you would like a book like that, I would directly you to the very excellent 2018 novel THE RED WORD by Sarah Henstra, which is also about a kind of gender war, this time at a college, that is a very smart and gutsy book that I highly enjoyed and which very much deserves your time.
2813871838	4.5 starsLisa Lutz was already one of my favorite authors, and this book just further cemented her status. It's her most thought-provoking novel yet. This book stirs up emotions and makes you think which is always a winning combination. Alexandra Witt takes on a position as a creative writing teacher at Stonebridge Academy. She's curious about something called the Darkroom and starts investigating as it sounds super shady. She soon learns some of the female students aren't too happy with the attitudes and actions of certain male students connected to the Darkroom. Perhaps they can come up with a plan to infiltrate the Darkroom and bring it down once and for all. The story follows the perspectives of Ms Witt, Mr. Finn, a teacher at Stonebridge, Gemma, a senior and leader of the resistance, and Norman, a reluctant participant in the nefarious activities of the Darkroom. The story incorporate many of the issues of the #metoo movement so this could be a difficult read for some readers. It might seem like the plot is outlandish but yet if I try to pinpoint which parts of the story could never happen in real life, I can't do it. It's both sad and scary that pretty much every plot point, I've actually read about in the news, or at least some variation of it. You might think the whole Darkroom thing sounds crazy but it shares a lot in common with that disturbing colored sex bracelet "game" that found its way into schools not that long ago. The author just shines a light on so many issues and does it in a brilliant way in my opinion.This book is part of the regular old fiction genre but it does have a slight young adult fiction feel to it. (And I'm not saying that as a negative thing because I think YA fiction is highly underrated.) This is mostly due to the boarding school setting and two of the narrators being students. Maybe it's because I am female, but for me Ms Witt and Gemma were the heart of the story and definitely the characters I identified with the most. And I think Lisa Lutz could have taken the easy way out and had all the female characters act and think the same way but she didn't. It sounds like such a simple thing to show women have minds of their own and their views don't always align with one another but yet I think many authors would not have shown the reality of this fact. The characters in the book were complex, you know, kinda like real people. It's like every detail in this book was so well-thought out, I'm just in awe. The only teeny, tiny criticism I have is the story felt a tad long at 400 some pages. Although I'm not sure what exactly I would cut out to trim down the length because even the side plots enhanced the overall story. I guess you could also argue the slow pace helped build up the tension. I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in seeing how a smart and creative writer takes on the issues of the #metoo movement. Readers who liked The Female of the Species by Mindy McGinnis might also want to check this book out as well.
2795284166	Having read and enjoyed a book by Lisa Lutz before I was really expecting to really enjoy The Swallows however that really didn’t turn out to be the case. Just picking this one up I began thinking it has a bit of an identity problem as it felt like a cross between an adult novel and a young adult read.The main character in The Swallows is actually an adult, Alexandra Witt, who has found herself in the position of needing a new teaching job. This brings Ms. Witt to Stonebridge Academy where after some odd negotiations she ends up with a job teaching creative writing and we as readers get our first glimpse into Stonebridge not exactly being a top ranked academy.Now as our new teacher sulks into her new position she was not expecting she tosses a random writing prompt at her new class. Well, after being told that the assignment could/would be anonymous some of the students gave answers which lead their new teacher to being concerned with what goes one behind these walls.Now, as I mentioned I struggled with not calling this one young adult with it being set in a school and then having a good portion of the point of view being handed to the students. It also had such a variety of characters in this story it never really became one I got overly connected to them either and would even mix the POV up even going back to adult. When finished this one ended up with an overall meh feeling somewhat burying it’s better parts.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
3025825187	I received a complimentary copy from Random House.This was a thought-provoking and entertaining read and so much more than just a suspense book. What do you love? What do you hate? What do you want? This is the writing prompt from Alex Witt, the new creative writing teacher at Stonebridge Academy boarding school. The students answers bring out some disturbing revelations. There’s a social hierarchy at school that involves “The Darkroom.” Ms. Witt unifies the girls at the school into a resistance movement (along the lines of “Me, too”), but then she’s outed with a dark secret of her own. Secrets are coming out from every crack and crevice at the school while tensions between the boys and girls are rising to a mounting level. Someone may get hurt. Oh, and girls may be girls when they’ve had enough of boys being boys. I LOVED the empowerment here. I loved the themes. There was clever humor sprinkled in to keep this from being overwhelmingly dark. The Swallows is a smart and timely thriller.Many of my reviews can also be found on instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader
2942826233	This little gem, set in a private north-eastern co-ed boarding school, manages to merge the overtly sexual focus of hormonal teenage boys, with the insecurity of teenage girls and the consequences of no adult supervision. The result is a maelstrom of angst that results in violence that any attentive teacher or administrator should have seen coming from a mile away. The plot focuses on a group of over-indulged, privileged boys who rate the performance of eager-to-please teenage girls as they drop to their knees to offer oral sex. At the end of the year, the girl with the highest blow-job score (who is almost always in the dark regarding the entire process) is then declared the winner of the “Dulcinea Award”. Though the admin and staff seem to have knowledge of this, it is with a wink and a nod that life on campus moves forward through the year. New teacher Alex Witt, however, can’t, upon discovery of this perverse campus tradition, look the other way and encourages a few girls who have also uncovered the existence of the Dulcinea to stand up for themselves, develop some self-esteem and fight back. As the war is waged, loyalties are tested, traditions are toppled and reputations, as well as lives, are ultimately lost. This book takes a hard look at what happens when we pander to elite males and sweep under the rug the concerns of our young women; when we ignore what is the beginning of the practices that eventually lead to women identifying with the #metoo movement. It is a cautionary tale that is both timely and relevant. Though a bit heavy handed at times, any teacher or informed parent will appreciate the kernels of truth tucked into these pages. Lutz has tapped into the culture of male-dominance that is evident even in our teenagers and carried it to a conclusion that is frighteningly possible.
3005616161	The Swallows takes a look at the sexual antics taking place at a small private school. Antics that are allowed to continue even as underage girls are rated and shamed and end up leaving the school when the hoard decides to turn on them. It’s pretty awful stuff and the title is exactly what you might think it is as well as a little something more. All the things get stirred up when a new teacher arrives at the school. She has the teens fill out an anonymous questionnaire and notices some disturbing answers that send her on a mission to find out exactly what “The Dark Room” is and why so many fear/hate it. One thing leads to another and the young ladies realize they have a way to fight back and fix the power imbalance and when it happens it is a glorious thing. Though I wish it had been darker and nastier but I’m a terrible person who definitely reads too much horror, haha.This book was one of those infectious reads that make you stop everything to keep reading/listening. I knew revenge was ultimately coming because I might’ve sneaked a peek at a review or two just to be sure and I was there for it. My only real complaint was the huge cast. It’s too large for this book, if you’re asking me, and especially if you are listening on audio because many voices sound too similar. And everyone has a side-story. There are teachers, students, groundskeepers, a parent or two. I had some trouble keeping up with names and histories and connections and hookups and other dastardly deeds, I cannot lie. Even with that said, it was a still a strong enough gossipy story that I never felt the need to shut it down forever. I’ll always wish the ending had been longer (it felt SO rushed), bleaker and meaner but I know all books can’t end the way Cockblock by C.V. Hunt did!
2917090189	I've never read anything by Lisa Lutz, but after devouring The Swallows , I think I may need to catch up on her previous works. When new teacher, Alex Witt, begins her tenure at Stonebridge Academy, she starts noticing some secretive activity between some of her students and the faculty at large. There's mentions of a social hierarchy between student classes—the Ten, as they like to be called are the social elite and there's one for each year in the school. Alex also starts finding out about a secretive gathering of male students that keep mentioning "The Darkroom". Although teaching is not her passion, Alex stumbles on disturbing facts that she cannot allow to keep hidden. Why is Stonebridge Academy trying so hard to keep the status-quo when there's serious allegations and controversies happening under their discretion?Before I get any hate, I know that the story in The Swallows is a little all over the place at times. We had some irrelevant POVs throughout the story, the ending is very melodramatic and over-the-top, and we had a lot of main(ish) characters that served no purpose. HOWEVER, I really was enthralled throughout the story—from beginning to end. I could not put down The Swallows even if I tried. I wanted to find out how Alex was going to deal with the conflict at hand (which I cannot say or get into any further), and I wanted to also see how the students were handling it as well. The Swallows falls in between adult and young adult fiction, which worked for me. The subject matter was very not young adult, but at the same time, the narrative felt geared for a younger audience at times. Whatever that means, it worked for me. I usually do not enjoy young adult novels because they tend to gravitate towards ridiculousness, but it worked with The Swallows . Overall, The Swallows is a very compelling and real depiction of how society has, and still is, in the stone ages when it comes to gender equality. Perfect for anyone who wants a novel reflecting student life right before the #metoo era (book takes place in 2009). I think this book will have a lot of differing viewpoints, but everyone will have an opinion.
2899560836	This is my first Lisa Lutz book and I really enjoyed the read. This was so off the wall that I didn't take any of it seriously and just went with it - I don't think the book was meant to be serious although there are some deep-seated male/female issues shining through. You can read the intro to find out what the book it about, but let me tell you what I liked.I thought the character Alex Witt was badass - her mother was as well so she got it honest. Gemma was a true leader and her decisiveness helped move the story along. Most of the males were immature jerks. The headmaster was totally clueless! I thought the "blowchart" was a nice touch.The writing, the characters, and the plot all kept me interested. I will probably pick up another of Lisa Lutz's books soon because I enjoyed the writing.The only thing I didn't really like was the number of points of view the story was told from. Sometimes it was hard to remember whose head you were in while reading what they were thinking/doing.Thanks to Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine through Netgalley for an advance copy.
2913700663	Stonebridge Academy has some secrets and the Darkroom is at the heart of it. Alex Witt, who has just joined as a teacher and quickly learns of the all too well known “boys will be boys” phenomena going on. No one has been able to stop it. What will it take and when is enough enough? I absolutely love Witt’s character. The Blowchart she makes, while you may first giggle at the title comparative to the subject matter, you quickly learn the true meaning and the lesson behind it all. LOVE the final message. The issue here is that when there's an academy/school such as this where certain *traditions* continue because people are too afraid to speak up to save their own asses, it turns into a vicious cycle where at the end of the day, everyone becomes a victim. Retaliations may not be worth the cost but something still needs to be done and while boys will be boys and girls will be girls - the girls will become warriors and god help those in their way. There were moments where it lost a little spark for me but overall a fabulous read about gender wars. Behind this heavy subject manner is humor and electricity from Witt's characters, the quiet hero in some of the boys who knows what's wrong, the surging of power within the girls who are targets, willingly or not. Competitiveness at the price of morality. Does any of this really change? Or is it just muffled until the next wave? We'll never truly know. It's the heart of this story - where lessons are learned and a heavy price is paid that tugs at your emotions.Lutz is, and continues to be, a favorite author of mine. And this cover, once you've read the story, really stands out and speaks volumes. I love a simple cover with a TON of meaning.
2923363522	A toxic ball of nastiness pervades a prep school and it's girls v boys in a twisted yet terrifyingly realistic scenario. Full review near UK publication 10th Sept.
2940921742	This latest by Lutz is gripping, darkly funny, and whip smart. I am a sucker for an isolated college campus populated by people with lots of secrets — delicious and twisty.
2812889649	The Swallows was the first book I've read by Lisa Lutz, and I enjoyed it! I loved the boarding school setup. Although it was an entertaining read, this book was not perfect. There were way too many characters with their own POVs (and some felt unnecessary). I think this could have been a really great story with some editing and tightening of the plot. It did go on for a little bit too long and I began to lose interest. It's almost like this book had all the pieces for an amazing story, but they didn't quite fit together sometimes.I also feel like the story didn't have an overall message as intended. It had some good things to say, but I'm having a difficult time completely seeing the point in books that are heavily focused on a binary view of gender. I think this book would have been better with more diversity. It was like the other students outside of this class didn't even exist, and it was odd at times. I know it sounds like I had a lot of problems, but I did have fun reading this book. I would check out more from Lisa Lutz in the future.
2861448629	The Swallows was ridiculous and over-the-top and I loved it. If you're looking for Sex Education (Netflix) in book form for the #MeToo generation, this is your book. Just make sure you go in wanting a bit of a romp, because I think if taken too seriously, The Swallows won't land. It's a fun book.It's multi-POV, 1st person with helpful chapter headings to let you know whose POV you're in. I only had to go back to remind myself who I was with once or twice--honestly it's a case where it could have easily been in third limited and felt the same; the whole book has a punchy adult literary tone that really works. Alex Witt is our primary main character, the daughter of a famous crime fiction writer who fled her last teaching job in scandal and has landed at Stonebridge, a middling boarding school with a dark secret.The secret is sex. The boys are garbage and treat the girls like sex objects. There's this whole not-so-secret society thing where the boys have a digital locker room of sorts where they rate girls on their blowjob skills, and the girls who find out don't like it one bit. Our primary teen character is Gemma Russo, rebel with connections to the popular set (called The Ten) who is out to dismantle the whole system. We also get POV chapters from Finn Ford, douchebag teacher/novelist, and Norman Crowley, techny nerd kid who helps fuel The Darkroom but feels bad about it.Both the female protagonists read like Manic Pixie Dream Girls if you only concentrate on the top level details. Alex is brusque but sexy, witty, doesn't care about trivial bullshit, etc. She's the ultimate Cool Teacher, like Dead Poets Society but a 30-something-woman who gives no fucks. Finn immediately sexually objectifies her, thanks. (his POV is there in large part to contrast to the actually-fleshed-out women and demonstrate gender bullshit; it works.) Gemma is pretty but actively hides it by styling herself punk/emo, she's smart and badass, always has a quip. She's honestly a carbon copy of Maeve from Sex Education, and I even pictured her looking like her, hence why I drew that comparison. Alex and Gemma are stereotypical "strong female protagonists," who in a different book by a different author with a different POV character (male, like Finn) would come across as very different characters--thin, shallow. But they really work in Lutz's hands. Both women are complex, vulnerable, and, for me, relatable. Even though I have almost nothing in common with either of them--I related to their spirits, and their palpable anger.This is really a book, wrapped up in a hooky commercial and slightly ridiculous plot, about anger. About rape culture, #MeToo, modern feminism. It presents everything mostly without explicit commentary, which I appreciated. It was there on the page--female characters Witt's age or older who enabled the rape culture at the school, even blamed the girls. The men who participated and the men who did not. The spread of girls and their varying reactions to the sex games going on. One woman Witt's age (approximately 40) comments that they had it worse as teen girls. Witt responds that, no, she thinks these girls have it worse. It was straightforward, just there on the page to chew on. I liked it. Ultimately, I do think the book is a reflection of rape culture, rather than an answer to it. I didn't leave the book feeling anything would really change for the antagonist characters.But then, okay, as I mentioned the boarding school stuff is RIDICULOUS. And I love a good ridiculous boarding school book (so I liked this one). I almost rolled my eyes a few times though. From "The Ten," which posits the popular crowd in each grade was comprised of the "top ten" students, but not based in academics--just at any given time in each grade there were ten kids who appointed themselves the most popular and they all hung out? Really a stretch for me. And then the Darkroom and the editors and the Dulcinea. Well, ok. The Darkroom I believe. But every time they referred to themselves as the editors I just deep sighed. The Dulcinea had a great payoff--I mean it's the crux of the whole book.But I'd just like to remind everyone that 60% of teens are not having sex. Today teens have LESS sex than in the past. So this is why you have to kind if disengage your reality filter and read this as a fun romp, because the sexual antics are a bit over-the-top. A LOT of these girls are having sex from age 14 or 15, which I think is meant to be sex positive but just feels statistically ridiculous? Every single girl depicted in this book is having sex. No one is queer. Many students sleep with teachers. I mean, it's fine, but just something I thought of a lot reading it. In that sense, it definitely feels properly like an adult book (which it is), rather than a YA.Anyway, I loved reading it. Highly recommend!
3150654683	I’m going to blow the bank and give this 5 stars just because I enjoyed it so much. Several other (and better) reviewers have expressed my exact feelings about this huge shemozzle of a book: it’s character-heavy and a bit long, and the plot is over the top; the humour was uneven and the multiple points of view sometimes confusing. However the book is more than the sum of its parts and I really did get a kick out of it. I identified strongly with Gemma, the orphan who dragged herself out of one shitpile and into another, I wanted her to win no matter what, and I did end up getting my “what.” I guess I should have cared more about that one guy, but ya know, it's a book, not real life, and he got what was coming to him, as grandma would say. Justice must be seen to be done. My own takeaway from this is that selfishness and narcissism-by-choice come with a high price, and the power of working together to succeed is priceless. I enjoyed Alex’s interaction with her sketchy parents, especially her birthday gift to Len - plots for his next novel. I’m not a writer but I got a kick out of that.The Blowchart alone deserves 5 stars. It needs to be the basis of compulsory study in every school. Lisa Lutz, I’m looking forward to your TED Talk on this. I’m signing up all my granddaughters (and grandsons) now.
2812000801	“Memory and reality are like cousins. Best-case scenario, they’re like first cousins. But sometimes they’re the kind of cousins who can marry.”Yes, friends! That’s a direct quote. Please feel free to laugh out loud like I did. The Swallows, is filled with tons of wittiest, wildness and it even speaks of a few ok- busted many “B.J.’s” but it has no BS. The Swallows was light, fluffy, youthful read to which you gladly “swallow” rather than spit. But being an adult and a parent it is one that I find difficult to accurately give a rating to. Oh, if I could only be one of the “editors” from this tale, perhaps I could give a better synopsis/rating of the humorous tale told within this read. 4 stars❤️
2654944855	Wow. Although this one takes a little while to get going, I read the last hundred and fifty pages in a breathless sprint this morning. Yes, the blurbs are technically correct about this being a "battle of sexes" novel but really it's something far more than that. That phrase implies that it's a merry war of wits like Shakespeare -- whereas here, we see instead a leveling of the field. We see how horrible men -- how horrible BOYS -- can be, and there is a vicious power in seeing them taken down.I don't know that I can talk about the ending. It socked me one, it made my blood sing like a fucking warrior, and I didn't like how it made me feel, because it made me feel... a little just. Thank the gods we have authors like Lisa in this horrible horrible time we're living through.
2802981609	The Swallows takes on gender roles and tackles them in a prep school setting. New teacher Ms. Witt realizes something unsavory is going on and wants to help put an end to it. The Swallows starts out incredibly strong and had me hooked instantly. Unfortunately, around the middle my interest started to wane and the plot started to lose me. There a few different perspectives in this one which keep the pages turning but could have probably done with 100 less pages somewhere in the middle. Thank you to Random House for an advanced copy. All opinions are my own.
2937926352	3 Stars for The Swallows (audiobook) by Lisa Lutz read by a full cast. The premise seemed interesting but even five narrators didn’t help make the story feel believable.
2804163869	3.5 stars. This one took me too long to finish, and by the end, I was just wanting to get it over with. That's not to say that the story itself and writing weren't good, because they absolutely were. There were just so many characters - I had to write them down with little notes as to who was who, because I wasn't sure who was going to turn out to be important. And they all were. They all played a part.So, this is the story of what goes on behind the walls of Stonebridge Academy, and private boarding school, with a long history. Over the years, the "boys" have created a secrfet website where they rate the girls and their sexual activities. Of course, the girls are oblivious to this (mostly). To make matters worse, the boys created a competition for the girl who gives the best oral audition. You simply submit your nomination, your review, and any others who partake also review. Nothing can wrong with THAT plan, right? Secrets, lies, manipulations, and just plain looking the other way abounds. Enter Ms. Witt, a teacher who left her other position for some unknown reasons, but gets a position at Stonebridge because of who her mother and father were. She helps uncover what is going on and helps the girls get their ultimate revenge...but at what cost?The storyline was great, the writing was great, the characters were snarky perfection. It was just a bit confusing for me at time and took a bit long to get to the conclusion, and by the time I got there, I was just glad for it to be done.
5006825951	I'm not sure why the average review is so much lower than mine, but I wanted to read this in one sitting (almost did, had it not been for sleep getting in the way!). Maybe that's why I didn't mind the way the story ended - my inner feminist revenge fantasy against every man that's ever hurt me, especially given I nearly gagged when I realized what the title meant.Sadly, I can definitely see this culture and the contest happening on campuses everywhere, including high schools (maybe even middle schools) and public schools too. Our kids need media education and better education about relationships and respect. I don't think the boys in this country know how much misogyny they are harboring or the girls know how much we let them. We need to break these heteronormative, toxically sexist stereotypes. They benefit only boys and men, and they hurt everyone (including those boys and men)...Kind of surprised Netflix hasn't decided to make this into a movie or a series. This is right up their alley (or maybe they have and I'm unaware).
2951434272	“I have been disappointed by students, even hurt and humiliated. That was the first time I felt fear.” The story revolves around social interactions at a private high school, between fellow students, between fellow teachers, and between students and teachers. Bit of a Peyton Place. More particularly, the story focuses on "bullying" and how kids can be brutal, and how adults are just big cruel kids. The title of the book, The Swallows, has nothing to do with birds, but rather is the nickname the boys have given girls who have been persuaded to perform certain sex acts. Having graduated a long time ago, I can only hope things have not gotten quite this bad in today's high schools. Of course, it's a fiction book, but the goings-on within this story are really perverse. I struggled to enjoy reading it. Not wanting to bury my head in the sand, though, I drudged through it. Although I recognize its potential value from the perspective of social awareness, I rated the book lower than some others because I thought the storyline itself was not that engaging.
2801987699	5 stars--Incredible book, but it won't be for everyone. It's DARK. Super dark. Instead of black and white, everything and everyone is gray, and the book clearly demonstrates how rape culture hurts everyone--girls, boys, and adults alike. Lutz's writing is witty, the plotting is clever, and the characters--flawed though they are--are endearing.
2839970387	2.5 rounded up. Alexandra Witt is desperate for work and to get out from under parental pressure, and so she accepts a job teaching at Stonebridge Academy, a third tier boarding school. She uncovers a dark tradition that victimizes female students, and she helps them fight back. Thanks go to Net Galley and Random House Ballantine for the review copy. This book is for sale now. As the story opens, Witt discovers that a sick sext of a girl in her first class is circulating; students are commenting on it with their phones during her class. For no reason that I can discern, Witt doesn’t take this problem to counseling or administration, but decides to deal with it, and with the larger problem it represents, by becoming an unofficial advisor to an unofficial revenge club. This turns out to be the better idea, because at Stonebridge, the faculty are either complicit, in denial, or too caught up in their own private woes to care. At any rate, this hip new teacher is dubbed “the Pied Piper of Stonebridge Academy,” and students—mainly girls--begin confiding in her.My response to this book mirrors Lutz’s earlier novel, The Passenger. The beginning grabs me immediately, and the author’s crackling wit and swift pacing make me certain I am going to love this book. As the story develops, I occasionally doubt the credibility of a detail here or there, and as a teacher, I wince at the willingness Witt shows in tossing colleagues under the bus, but the story on the whole is still entertaining enough that I set my doubts aside. You can never enjoy a thriller without buying the premise, and so I continue, thinking now that maybe this is a four star read rather than five, but it’s still absorbing, and I want to see where it goes. But when I reach 66%, cracks start to form and so at the climax, instead of being riveted, I feel as if I’ve been had. The tipping point for me is the amount of prurient detail given to the various sexual acts, most of them either sexual assaults or sex as payback. It is as if the reader is expected to get a charge out of this material, but since there’s obviously something seriously wrong with it, Lutz casts it as a call to arms so that readers won’t feel guilty about immersing themselves in sleaze. I was ready to toss it aside at 66 percent; that’s enough for me, friends. I don’t care how it ends anymore. But at the same time I was on the hook for a review and I could tell the rest would be a fast read, so I gritted my teeth and finished it. And there’s the other problem, a common one in this genre: it’s always so much easier to set a thriller up than it is to resolve it. The way this story plays out has no feminist spark whatsoever—thus nullifying even the faint murmur of MeToo that could be found earlier if you squinted a little and didn’t think too hard—and is also preposterous. A lot of other people have read this book and loved it; call me a hard-ass if you will. But I always call them as I see them, and I see this as dross. Don’t pay full freight unless your pockets are deep and your tolerance phenomenal. Or you could just buy a better book instead.
2925624512	It took me forever to read The Swallows. I was first drawn to the story by the boarding school setting, but the cacophony of voices telling the story in first person was a challenge. And although the story was darkly humorous, it was rather unpleasant. Relevant to the #MeToo conversation, the boys take and share revealing pictures of girls and rate sexual encounters. The battle eventually turns into a war where no one is left unscathed.
2944739569	Boarding school + boys being boys + feminist fury = [fire emoji]
2881578827	This one drew me in at "dark boarding school secret" since there's just something delicious about the underlying malevolence in that isolated environment. After the first few chapters, I fell hard for this story and what I had assumed would be the lead "voice", the new teacher Alex Witt. The short chapters are told in first person through four narrators, two teachers and two students, often retelling the same events from different perspectives. Is it a little odd that there seem to only be about four teachers to a full high school of four hundred students or that despite this being a decently sized school there is little mention of students or an entire body of underclassmen other than a handful of senior boys and girls? Well, yeah, but suspension of disbelief is a HUGE theme here to enjoying this book. So the premise of this book is that the boys are running an open secret website for them to talk about women and trade dirty photos, stories, etc. However, there's an even more "secret" sub-directory open to a select few where they rate the girls on their blow job abilities and run a "contest" for the year to rate a winner. And this is where I just become a bit lost--I'm THRILLED that Alex Witt immediately questions the same thing I do which is are blow jobs really that prevalent among a high school student body and why!? As far as this being the "dark secret" at the school, it just kind of felt lacking, and maybe I just watch too much Law & Order SVU but it didn't sound surprising or even all that shocking. Now there were some other small streaks of menace, such as mystery footprints outside of Witt's house, a video someone shot over her through a window at night, a string of teachers leaving the school under mysterious circumstances and yet none of that really went much deeper than throwaway lines of "repercussions" for attempting to interfere with this website game. A more minor quibble of mine but one that nagged at me through this entire book was that it takes place in 2009, and the author is deliberate about reminding the reader of that at various points in the book--but what was the purpose of that time period? There is absolutely nothing that would tie the story to that particular moment in time. I kept expecting a jump forward to present day, but that never happened either. Just a point of irritation for me.Anyway, by about the middle of this book it became very clear that Witt ran out of things to do as a character and while the other narrators claim how important she was to the ultimate war between the sexes, there's little evidence of that on paper. Such a waste of what was initially such an awesome character. And then there's the plodding plot; the setup of bringing down this website and its users comes out almost immediately but it's so hard to get behind any of the characters trying to pull this off. I already outlined the issue with Witt, Mr. Ford is the other teacher viewpoint and he's aptly described as one of the entitled boys all grown up--a perfect assessment that the author doesn't bother running with beyond that single descriptor, Norman is the webmaster of this site despite hating all of its users but only seems to be (sort of) helping the girls because he's interested in one of them, Gemma is probably the closest to a sympathetic protagonist but even she feels flat and under-developed. The full scale, escalating gender war happens far too late in this book to really feel like it's a running thread. The entire book runs from September until roughly the first week of January. Why not run it through the full school year with escalating actions? The author is obviously trying to speak to the #MeToo movement, the acceptability of boys treating girls like objects rather than people, and showing that girls can and will fight back. These are great themes to explore, but the issue is that they simply aren't. There are hints and touches on broader issues, but the real execution doesn't happen until far too late in the book to even feel like it's a true progression of the story.I wish this book could have been all out, over the top satire and really went at the issues it just dances over. However, it's not and it doesn't. It's a "safe" book and not an effective toppling of a poisonous patriarchy.ARC provided by NetGalley
2861627157	The Swallows is a complex book full of memorable characters and dynamic plot threads that all come together in a heart-stopping ending.I’ll admit that I wasn’t sold at the beginning. For starters, there were a lot of characters to remember. The story takes place at a New England boarding school, and there are plenty of students’ and teachers’ names to remember. Also, the beginning - although interesting - moved a little slowly. However, by the fourth chapter, I was hooked.Once the story gained momentum, I became intrigued by each of the main characters. There were some who started out seemingly good and then, by the end of the book, turned out to be bad. There were others who seemed shady but turned out to be good. I loved the complexity of the cast.I also liked how the school’s secrets were gradually exposed. When I was reading, I had a strong feeling that something was very wrong at the school, but only as I read on did I find out how dysfunctional the students and faculty were. Each chapter did a great job of laying the groundwork for the ending.The last few chapters were some of the best I’ve read. Certainly, they were among the top of what I’ve read this year. Beware, however. The end of the book doesn’t tie up everything with a nice bow. There are lingering questions and a few loose ends. I didn’t mind this at all, but not every reader likes uncertainty.Overall, The Swallows was an excellent thriller that will leave you thinking about long after you’ve finished reading.Four out of five stars.Thanks to Netgalley for the review copy.
3153492652	Man, I am really glad that I went to public school.
4177415141	oh god. where do i start? maybe with the good?this author can write and i respect that. she knows how to make the reader wanna keep going. i definitely read this in like, two sittings. a page turner for sure. i think that with a lot more revision/editing this story could have been really good but it just.......had too much going on? here are the things i took issue with (btw i cannot remember most of the characters names and i no longer have the book to check so sry)1. the sleazy male teacher. mr. ford. it was a cool approach to get a first person pov for such a sleazy piece of shit. i like the idea of doing that and it was definitely hard to read his perspective, which is good. the problem is i do not think his character ultimately added anything to the plot? waay to much time was focused on him and the protag teacher and i think that time would have been better used building a relationship between the protag teacher and the librarian, since claude was 10000% more pivotal to the plot. imagine how much worse the big reveal would have been if the protagonist and clause had actually been becoming close friends. the betrayal would have hit way harder had we gotten scenes of the two of them growing closer and talking about personal stuff. instead they were more like acquaintances which i think was wasted potential. it also made me not really care at all when claude killed herself. instead of building on that relationship, more time is spent with the sleazy english teacher. at the end of the day mr. english teacher is just....another adult who turned a blind eye for their own gain. i think we already had that role filled with the headmaster and with primm. speaking of primm, her motives interest me waay more than sleazy english teacher's did. why and how does she benefit from keeping everything about the darkroom under wraps? i would have liked to get a deeper dive into her character and motivations. she could have been the sleazy first person pov instead and i think it would have been more interesting because, since she is a woman, she should logically be on the girls' side. you would more likely expect the male teacher to not care, but why would a female teacher turn a blind eye? (other than claude's motives). 2. Speaking of unnecessary characters, i do not think the protagonist's parents needed to make a physical appearance at the school. maybe like, one of them for one chapter but it felt unnecessary for her mom to be hanging around for so long. i do not think it added anything to the plot and any depth it gave to the protagonist could have been accomplished through like, phone calls or something. 3. overall this book has a real problem with like. all men are Evil. and i honestly do not think the author was even going for that. we have 3 male characters who are helping the girls. my problem was that the motivation for every single one of them was that they had a crush on one of the girls. (even the gym teacher is guilty of this). they even mention a couple of times that they are only really helping because of their crushes. i wanted at least one of the boys to be helping because i dunno he had like, a moral compass? a sense of right and wrong? i would have preferred at least one of the boys realize they had been a bystander for to long and decide to do something about it WITHOUT a crush being a factor at all. The crushes being such big motivators for all 3 of them detracted from their character to me. 3. The person who recommended me this book told it was going to be campy/over the top so i went in totally willing to suspend disbelief when i had to. and i did! i suspended my disbelief that a large group of teenage boys would be capable of keeping a secret for years (the idea that somehow there were still girls in the school who didn't know about it is insane). in reality that shit would have gone around the ENTIRE school in like. 2 weeks at best. but ok, they have a sociopath running things so sure. suspending my disbelief. and its suuch a big secret that no one ever talks about it but like 50% of the class writes about it on their "anonymous" assignments. sure, whatever. the one thing i had trouble suspending my disbelief about, and this was just a random minor detail but. One of the 10 is literally a straight up pedophile? maybe if only alex (sorry if thats not his name i cant remember but you know the information keeper) was the ONLY one who knew i would buy it. but seeing as how even girls who didn't know him knew rumors.......it seems likely that his friends knew he was a pedophile. i think that teenage boys feeling ok with a culture of objecting and exploiting teenage girls is believable but i honestly think (hopefully!!!) that even those kinds of guys would draw the line at pedophilia! and it isn't like he was adding anything useful to their group, he wasn't the programmer or the blackmailer. he was just there. look i remember high school and i remember shitty teenage boys but i have to tell you i really think the majority of them would not want to be friends with an actual pedophile with charges that had been brought against him! more realistically is that they would bully the shit out of him. so yeah, just a minor detail I guess but I had to point it out. 4.towards the end of the book when alex's files are stolen a lot of secrets come out that are just never followed up on. its revealed that alex is a victim of sexual abuse from his stepmother. i feel like this is such a significant detail given that claude is also a victim of childhood sexual abuse. and then they both become perpetrators. gemma decides without any serious reflection that she does perceive alex as a victim. and i understand and possibly agree with her conclusion but i do wish she had struggled with it a bit more. because its complicated. its a complicated detail and i think if you're going to add that detail then something needs to be done with it. but it was just sort of thrown out there and that was that. the decision to make both of the perps also be victims is....a serious one. because it raises questions about cycles of abuse etc and i think if you're going to bring that up more follow through was needed though in what way i honestly could not tell you. 5. i'm not sure what the purpose of norman's friendship/crush(?) w/ claude was. to show how she was a kind and caring person so we would be more surprised later? to be honest i just thought it was kind of weird because the regular boundaries of a teacher/student relationship had been blurred (i think he mentions dropping by her house once??). hey maybe that was the point and it was foreshadowing?? either way it seemed kind of underdeveloped. if they had, for example, had a heart to heart where they discussed suicidal ideations (which both characters struggled with) i could have understood/believed their bond more. norman's prior suicide attempt was another very significant detail that i wish had been expanded on/eluded to. it definitely felt in line w/ his character but i also think it deserved more than one sentence. 6. something about the ending left me feeling disappointed and i haven't exactly put my finger on what. no matter who it is, being accidentally locked in a room and burning to death is horrific. I couldn't help but think of "we were liars". but when it happened in that book i remember really feeling the horror and devastation. (granted i read that almost 10 years ago) but in the swallows i did not feel that same sense of emotion. maybe if an innocent student had died along with alex? or if gemma had for even a second expressed some level of guilt or regret. im fine with her feeling like he deserved it. i get that shes tough. but she's also a teenage girl who went through some insane shit and sort of played a role in someones horrific death. i think i needed more emotion from her. maybe one or two outbursts of something other than anger. i know this is an insanely long and nitpicky review but i will say that despite my many criticisms i am intrigued by this author's writing and i am thinking of checking out more of her work.
2802876708	You can also find my review here: https://devouringbooks2017.wordpress....I don't read many contemporary novels, but this book looked especially compelling. Before reading I had seen some reviews that warned that the book shouldn't be taken too seriously and that it was over the top. I can definitely agree with those statements. The subject matter of The Swallows initially lead me to believe that this would be a hard hitting novel about feminism and a powerful read, while it was a feminist novel, it didn't pack the punch that I had anticipated. The Swallows is a drama filled novel set at a boarding school where there are sexual scandals that incite an all out war between the boys and the girls.There were many aspects of The Swallows that I really enjoyed. It was an entertaining book about scandals and retaliation set in a New England prep school. It was a light read and full of lots of drama. The main point of view is from a creative writing teacher who is trying to get to the bottom of everything that is happening at the school, but you get several more points of view and several of them are from students, so you get the full picture of what is going on. The book reads like a fluff read with easy readability and lots of drama to keep you entertained.But personally I am a bit disappointed. This book could have been an emotional and powerful read. Some of the subject matter is horrible and goes on in many high schools and colleges, but the writing felt rather cavalier about some really important topics. I just feel like it made light of topics that should have been handled with more tact. I think one of the main downfalls was that the characters all felt like cardboard cut outs, they had very little depth to them. Even at the climax of this book I didn't really care what happened next. It was missing emotion and the build up of tension. The plot was great, but the execution and the writing fell short.Overall I am disappointed. I read that I shouldn't take this book too seriously, but I feel like the author could have taken it a bit more seriously. It lacked fleshed out characters and an emotional delivery. This book had the potential to be so much better than it was and I can't help but feel let down.
3081380967	The Swallows sounded so promising...a private boarding school, a me-too theme, a secret society to be infiltrated and broken down. But it fell a bit flat on the delivery to me. My main issues were- too many characters that didn't feel unique enough for me to distinguish one from the other- choppy pacing that flipped from super slow to crazy OTT dramatic- All the characters written in first person point of view, and I never knew who was talking, had to keep flicking back pages to checkNot for me.
2863563438	Thank you to Random House Publishing Group, Ballantine and Net Galley for providing me with a copy of The Swallows by Lisa Lutz in exchange for my honest review.Let’s start with the description/genre of this book. Mystery/Thriller, Women’s Fiction. NO!!! That is HORRIBLE branding for this story. It’s not a mystery; there was no big reveal. It is not a thriller. It is not for women; this is for teens – older teens. It should be a YA.Next, let’s talk about the number of characters and POV. The story takes place at a boarding school. First we meet the new teacher, Alex Witt, and then we add in Gemma (one of the female students), then Mr. Finn (one of the male teachers) and another student, Norman (a male). On top of that, we meet at least 30ish students and only 6, maybe 8 adults. The adults introduced are all messed up, so messed up they seem like teenagers themselves. All of these adults know what’s going on at their school but ignore it, except for the Dean, who knows nothing…no!The changing of POV was frustrating. Ms. Witt is our first POV, and she comes to the school from another boarding school where there was a scandal. The scandal is so bad that we don’t talk about it until finally, it’s out. It’s a huge letdown. I’m not saying it wasn’t a disturbing event, but the buildup makes you think it’s much worse. Then we have Gemma’s POV as the ringleader of the revolution, she tells us what’s going on at the school. Honestly, we just needed her POV. I maybe get having Ms. Witt’s. Then the male teacher, who is a pervert, is added to the mix. Sometimes he’s teaching and but Ms. Witt ends up taking on most of his classes so he can write a novel, which we learn is a boarding school with a naughty secret. Then we add in one of the male students, who admits he’s a coward. Although he tried to make up for his mistakes as the book goes on, it’s an unnecessary added POV.The Plot! There was so much going on in this story that didn’t help it along. Ms. Witt’s parents are all over the place. Her dad is an author and womanizer who kept showing up for no apparent reason. And her mother, who I actually liked, she was strong, independent, smart, and brave. But were they necessary to push the story forward? No. If you cut them out the book, nothing would change.The story is about a boarding school whose students are terrible to each other. Moreover, the boys treat the girls like toys. Then you have a student sleeping with a teacher and blackmailing them, and you have inappropriate pictures of girls (some underage) being shared with the students, you have a teacher sleeping with just about everyone. The boys have a website that was created to track the girl's ability to perform certain sexual acts. The main act they focus on is blowjobs, and the only part of this book that I liked was the Blow Chart that was created to help girls decide if they should be doing them. I read The Swallows much faster than I have been reading lately, but it wasn’t a good thing. I found myself skipping full paragraphs because I just didn’t care what the character had to say or was thinking. I wanted this to be a female empowerment story. I wanted to see the girls stand up for themselves and fight back and they do, but their retaliation ends in tragedy. Is it tragic if no one cares? I don’t know, the book wasn’t what I hoped it would be and it just made me want to get it over with as quickly as possible.
2921953423	Alex Witt has just been appointed the new creative writing teacher at Stonebridge Academy. She starts her first class off with a simple writing prompt. What Alex isn’t expecting is to find clues to Stonebridge’s darkest secret within the answers to her prompt. It’s obvious there is something going on with the student body, but her fellow faculty members seem to either be oblivious or simply don’t care. Alex can’t shake the references to The Darkroom or her suspicions about the school’s popular crowd who dub themselves The Ten.Meanwhile, Gemma, a defiant senior and member of The Ten, has secretly been plotting her attack on The Darkroom and those who run it. She begins to make some unlikely allies for her secret plans and soon an all out gender war is in the works. As tensions escalate the students turn to new levels of retaliation that will leave many facing serious consequences and regrets.I absolutely adore when mystery books feature an academic setting. I don't know what it is that draws me to them, but I am fascinated by boarding schools. Lisa Lutz certainly delivers a school steeped in secrets with Stonebridge Academy. Every student and faculty member seems to have something they want to hide. Many are plotting and several are launching personal investigations.Leading the charge with investigating strange behavior at Stonebridge is the latest faculty member, Alex Witt. She’s on the run from her past and looking to make a fresh start. What she finds is a situation that could potentially make things worse for her. I love that Alex’s character is willing to do anything for what she believes is right even if that means jeopardizing her career. She comes across as extremely relatable and quickly becomes someone for the reader to cheer for. While Alex wins over hearts on the faculty side of this story, Gemma took the lead for me in the student body. Just like Alex, Gemma has secrets in her past that she would rather no one finds out. She has this badass, reckless attitude, but her reasoning behind her actions always make her a compelling character. Even as things spiral out of control at Stonebridge the reader can still understand what is driving Gemma and those who stand with her takedown plans.THE SWALLOWS is told through alternating narratives from two teachers and two students. I loved how this gave me a little bit of insight into everything that was happening at Stonebridge. It was fun seeing where the narratives overlapped and then knowing the other side of an event that was already discussed. The chapters are short and they often left me with questions that I needed answers to immediately, so I would fly through the book to get back to that character’s narrative.In addition to a wonderful cast of characters, Lutz also provides the reader with great graphics that truly make the story better. There aren’t many of them, but when they do show up you feel compelled to study them. The blow chart was my absolute favorite! Also, once you finish the book, the cover art on the US edition will reveal it’s hidden meanings!If you love books centered around academia and mysteries, THE SWALLOWS will be a great addition to your reading line-up!Disclosure: Thank you to Random House for sending me a free copy of this book in exchange for my honest review!
2838706009	A well-told suspenseful story with a timely messageAlexandra Witt arrives at her new job teaching at Stonebridge Academy, a private boarding school, and is immediately thrown a bit off kilter, when the class schedule she is given on the first day of class consists of a completely different set of courses than the ones she had been asked to teach. Then she finds a dead rat in her desk drawer, which she soon realizes was an omen more than an aberration. The social hierarchy at Stonebridge is ruled by The Ten, a group of male and female students who direct student social life. Alex gradually comes to realize that the male members of The Ten exert further control with a secret website called The Darkroom, known only to the boys, where participating male students plan and report on their sexual prowess. As rumors leak and spread about The Darkroom, sparks begin to fly. Alex tries to support the girls, but ultimately the situation gets out of control and produces consequences beyond what anyone could have predicted. The Swallows is structured in short chapters written in the first person by the primary members of the cast of characters. This structure is hard to pull off well, but Lutz does it beautifully, giving each character his or her own distinctive voice and showing them as real humans. One of the most intriguing was Finn Ford, a male teacher. As I got to know Finn I veered between considering him a total jerk and a decent guy and ended up deciding he was something in between, just a flawed human like most of us. And then there is Alex Witt, the protagonist: “Some teachers have a calling. I’m not one of them. I don’t hate teaching. I don’t love it either. That’s also my general stance on adolescents.” With this as the opening line, I knew right off this book was not going to be Good-bye, Mr. Chips! Despite the smile the opening provoked, I do not consider this a humorous book, not even “darkly humorous”. It was hard for me to “swallow” the depth of the bad behavior at Stonebridge Academy. I found it difficult to believe that the student behavior could be so bad or last as long as it did or that the authorities would be blind to the students’ activities, even in a “second-rate” boarding school for children of the wealthy, and I was not sure I wanted to read about it. Once I got past that, though, the book was beautifully done and really gripped me.I opened The Swallows expecting enjoyable psychological suspense in an interesting setting. It was all of that and much more, with well-drawn characters and a well-delivered message (in more ways than one!).
2958308654	One blurb describes this book as “Wes Anderson meets Muriel Spark,” and I couldn’t get that comparison out of my head while I was reading. The prose has this witty, quirky quality, but with a creeping darkness.There is a thin line between reality and satire, and Lutz is riding that line throughout this book. It goes to some over the top places, but some of the ideas are insidiously easy to consider. Something like this is not overly far-fetched, and I love that this book is joining the conversation.How much should girls and women have to just put up with when it comes to sexual harassment? It isn’t just “boys being boys.” This book looks at every angle: the teacher who wants to do right by her students, the angry girls who want to fight back, the shame and guilt that makes some of the girls stay quiet, the boys who take part only so they won’t be outsiders, the teachers who know and do nothing—and the wheel keeps turning.Sometimes I felt that there were too many voices in play, and I think the story could have been effectively told from one perspective—Ms. Witt’s, as she was the best character, and felt like the main character. Sometimes the overlap between characters’ differing perspectives on the same scene felt like it was just rehashing the same information over and over instead of moving the story along and showing a clear distinction of perspective. I think this also came from the fact that the voices you hear from are all basically fighting for the same thing, so there isn’t a lot of contention between the perspectives.I did love the charts throughout the book—the visuals were amazing and helped me picture the cast and keep the characters all aligned in my head.The ending of the book felt rushed to me and after the climax, I wished there could have been a more solid section to wrap up the book. The pacing throughout was really good though; I read this 400-page book in one sitting!My thanks to Random House for my copy of this one to read and review.
2850548114	I enjoyed every second of this darkly comic and anger inducing story. I like Lisa Lutz. She has a point of view and she doesn’t care about conforming to a particular genre (is it a thriller? Is it a satire? Is it a literary fiction? All of the above) and it makes her books interesting to read. I was fascinated by all the characters and would have been interested to read more about them. I had mixed feelings about the ending, but it didn’t mar the overall experience. A satisfying and timely read that felt entirely plausible.
4704731295	Amazing read. Initially I was very confused the characters came in thick and fast and it was hard to decipher who was a teacher or who was a pupil, maybe this was intentional as they all end up in the riot at the end. A clever story about boarding school etiquette develops into a sick story of how the boys rate the girls sexually specifically on oral sex, de humanising them. Once the girls discover the computer programme of the dark room and the way they are being talked about by the boys they become angry and want revenge. Interesting commentary on sexual consent is a major part of the book. Once the story got going I was hooked and the ending did not disappoint. Shocking, well paced and most definitely one of the best books I have read recently. Highly recommend
2896267762	I think I lost IQ points while reading this book. Seriously. It's been a long time since I read something so dumb. And surprisingly poorly written. I was at least expecting an engaging, well-written story having liked Lutz's The Spellman Files a lot. It wasn't great literature, but it was fun and well-written. What I got with The Swallows was lots of characters, none of which were well-developed, and a story that insulted my intelligence. Everything that happened was so random. And you don't even want to know what "the swallows" refers to. Not recommended. At all.
2948162627	I expected this to be deliciously sinister, phenomenally powerful. It was not. I wanted this to be deep and magnificent but all I found was a shallow pond of ordinary. The excessive cast of unrelatable and unlikable characters, stirred with alternating POVs and unnecessary details clogged up the storyline. If I hadn't liked the writing so much, The Swallows would have been swallowed up by my DNF pile.
3102754915	“The Swallows”, by Lisa Lutz, is a fast-paced story of a very dysfunctional prep school in Vermont which leads the reader through a compelling tale of how some of the girls, with the help of a new teacher, exact revenge due to a “sex contest” propagated by some of the boys and covered up by the administration. (The title is an unfortunate [IMO] double entendre.) It held my interest because early on we are told that two people die, and I wanted to find out who and how.
4057489161	Leans closer to 3.5, but rounding up
2867957174	Alex Witt has come to Stonebridge Academy to teach creative writing. And maybe fencing. Her fathers' relationship to the Dean has secured her position and she isn't exactly happy.The daughter of a somewhat successful author and a Russian no-nonsense mother, Alex has perhaps inherited some qualities from both sides. Stubborn, single and not looking and very to the point!Her first look at some of her students is a simple enough assignment. What do you love? What do you hate? What do you want? Don't sign your paper.Some of the answers are easy to assign to the authors. Some look like a code of some type and Alex gets the impression not everything is kosher at this odd school.My take:Adults and children behaving very, very badly. Hundreds of students and only a few teachers? And there were maybe 2 redeeming characters and the rest were horrible.It's not an original tale. There have been cliques in schools for decades. Adam has taken it to a whole new level. Find the dirt on everyone and use it to leverage things in his favor. Apparently, this system and his band of merry men who love blow jobs have been around awhile. These guys have just elevated it. And they would still be getting away with treating girls as sexual objects, grading their partners without their knowledge.All it takes is one warrior. One person willing to stand up and say, "Enough!" And with the Blow Job Chart, it should be easy to decide. Genius! What happens is a full-on war between the sexes. These girls were scary good! In the end, all I could think was, "Girls will be Girls". And laugh.This isn't my favorite book by Lutz. Some of the characters were a bit cliche'. All in all I was cheering for Gemma!NetGalley/ Ballentine
2803021168	This book took me way, way too long to get through. Although I was technically only reading it for three days, it shouldn't have taken me that long. I really didn't like this book nearly as much as I have liked Lutz's other books. It didn't have the snarky humor I've come to expect from her writing in The Spellman Files, and the plot just didn't grip me like The Passenger.I think if the girls would have had a steady plan of getting their revenge for the boys' sexual grading system and manipulation, I would have liked it better, but for me, it just came too little, too late. Yes, the girls ultimately come out on top, I guess, but not without some collateral damage. I liked Alex as a character, and she was basically the only person I connected with in any way. Yet even her character wasn't immune to the wandering plot. I ultimately just wasn't sure where Lutz was going with the tale. A #metoo story? A feminist story? It just didn't go far enough or show enough power, and since it was set before the whole #metoo era, I just didn't know what she was trying to convey.And don't get me started on the irresponsible adults in this book. They are so clueless (other than Alex...kind of) and they are never around when needed, even in dire situations. They were basically caricatures of adults that were seemingly hiding the abhorrent behavior of these boys for years and years.I will still seek out Lutz's books because I have generally liked them, but this one was a miss for me.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.
2844746642	I liked this book, just didn't love it. There is a pretty large cast of characters (though we only spend time in the minds of four of them) and I had a hard time keeping track of who was who (the "nice" guys stand out, but all of the "bad" ones just merge into one brotastic blob.) I also found some of the descriptions of the school (which seems to have no real conduct rules, hundreds of students and like 4 teachers) to be a little unrealistic. However, there is one part of the book that is exceptional and that is THE BLOWCHART, a "should you blow him?" flowchart one of the teachers makes for the students which I've already shared online and discussed with others. I've never seen anything like it, and it's a standout part of this book that deserves to go viral in and of itself. If I could, I would make a copy of it and stick it in every high school bathroom in American. Problem is, when I mention that the aforementioned blowchart is from a book called "The Swallows" nearly everyone gets turned off. I do NOT love the title of this book at all. I GET why it was chosen, but it makes all of the late-in-the-book discussions about "what is the last class of birds they call these young women who have engaged in a blowjob contest?" seem superfluous and silly. Thanks to the author and NetGalley for granting me the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review.
2930696160	How you feel about this book depends on what you expect from Lisa Lutz. If you're a fan of "The Passenger" you are probably looking forward to a novel like one of those sled rides where once you push off you are flying non-stop towards the end with absolutely no chance to catch your breath until you screech to a stop and close the back cover. This is not that book."The Swallows" is a boarding school book, where an non=traditional teacher starts at a mid-level school. She's pretty funny and builds an interesting rapport with the students. The girls discover that the boys are ranking and rating them based on their oral sex performances. It turns out to be an established, high-stakes tradition, and stopping it will not be easy or safe and when the girls get woke, trouble begins.I put this book down about three-quarters of the way through but did pick it up and finish. Some of the characters are surprising in the end, but "The Swallows" is still just okay.
2861652971	Once again a setting in a private school so I knew I would love it! Ms. Witt joins the faculty in this secluded area hoping to find solace from her past but is quickly thrown into a perverse and twisted 'game" the boys play by setting up the girls and then rating them on a hidden website. Senior Gemma is determined to put an end to this practice but of course needs help to bring the boys down. It was an enjoyable yet sinister read that felt all too real. Told from multiple perspectives, it was sometimes hard to follow and remember which students I "liked," but overall, I really loved the twists and turns.Thanks to NetGalley for this ARC!
4230239581	I'm not sure what this book was trying to be. Whatever it is, it tried too hard. I think it was supposed to be funny? Parts of it were, but a lot of it was just uncomfortable.The Swallows starts out intriguing: a boarding school, staff secrets, student secrets, a website called The Dark Room. The intrigue ends about 3 hours in, and then it almost becomes tedious. Disappointed is all I can say.
3079018788	This one reminded me so much of Donna Tartt’s, The Secret History, which was one of my favorite books ever. Well done, a ton of character development and so many plot twists I could not keep up with.
2948811339	I snagged this book from the new release shelf at the library and didn't even bother to read the flap copy. (The cover is that compelling.) What I discovered was a timely, disturbing, excellently told story about a prep school and the sick underbelly of a twisted student population. This book is not for the faint of heart. But it is sharp and compelling, and turns a laser eye on issues of gender, sexuality, consent, and respect. My favorite part? The dialogue. Lutz is an absolute master of tight, witty dialogue, and I found myself rereading certain conversations simply because they were so perfectly written.
3800160416	tw: sexual assault, suicide, pedophilia
2823558113	I’m not entirely sure how to review this book. It has some weaknesses, it slogs a bit here and there, and then there is the catastrophic ending which… I seriously feel fine about. A line near the end reminds us that while we’ve been trying to get girls to “find their voices,” in this book they stop using their voices and start taking action. Which is better? Without agreeing that what the girls did was right, I can still say that I understand why they did it. I can say that I don’t feel badly for any of these fictional male characters. I can say that I’d love to see the whole thing come alive on screen. It’s a work of fiction and I stand by my enjoyment of what happened in this fictional story.But as I sit here trying to write the review, my enthusiasm is waning. What was the point of Ms. Witt, big picture? What was the point of several of these characters? There’s a lot going on but it’s mostly smashed together and there’s no real reason for a lot of story threads. The phrase “plausible deniability” is tossed out so many times it took me right out of the story. I read an ARC so perhaps some of those instances will get trimmed out. But… where is the rest of the school in this story?? I was wondering how the boys could have so many entries in their stupid database when there seemed to be less than 20 students, and then I remembered the school population was supposed to be around 400. Where were the other 380 students? Why did the entire school faculty consist of two teachers, one coach, one librarian, one dean and one very inept counselor? The world the book creates has absolutely no one else in it even though it’s stated that there are 400 kids attending this school. And I wish the Announcements sections had ended up having some sort of meaning in the story.Overall though, no matter how many problems there were, I really really enjoyed reading this. I loved the teenage girls, especially Gemma and Linny, and I loved when they had their army ready to go. I’m basically an old woman and I’m ready to get an axe tattooed on my wrist in solidarity. I’m ready to burn things down. If this is the future for the books women (and young women) will get to read I am looking forward to it and men better take notice. Women and girls have a new type of protagonist to think about.My 4 stars is more like 4.5 stars. I can see this as a movie, and I'd love to see the image of a pack of teenage girls with their heads shaved carrying axes on a movie poster. I would buy that poster and hang it on the wall. I wish more work had been put into cleaning the story up, but I just can’t deny that I enjoyed almost every moment and cheered at the end while hoping for the most damage possible. That doesn’t make me a bad person, that means I was totally caught up in the characters and their mission.Final thought: Jalapenos seem like a fine real-world solution to me.Thank you to NetGalley for the early ARC, I enjoyed it overall more than I did The Passenger (which I loved).
2875032868	A dark, twisted tale of betrayal, revenge and long kept secrets. When Alexandra Witt accepts a teaching job at Stonebridge, she was hoping to escape a terrible past, but soon becomes entangled in a gender war that turns fatal. When Gemma, the shy loner but also a part of "The Ten" discovers the truth of The Darkroom, she builds an army to fight back. When silence can no longer be tolerated, the consequences turn deadly. I loved the characters. The plot was original and well written. A page turning and thought provoking thriller.
2865848781	Interesting plot. I didnt think i d enjoy the book as much ad i did. Mature audiences
2834923590	The galley copy I read was provided courtesy of the publisher (Ballentine/Random House) to my bookshop. Thank you to our rep and to the publishing company!I could not get enough of this book. Alex Witt, who starts the story but is one of many protagonists, is not necessarily likeable; she's the antithesis of every female high school english teacher stereotype. She loves books, but that's about it. The borderline-alcoholic daughter of a writer with a breadth of work (but very little artistic output) and a severe former Olympic fencer, Witt is pragmatic and takes her work seriously, just as the students at the elite Vermont boarding school she teaches at take their school hierarchy dead seriously. In addition to Witt, the school faculty includes an ambitious, sex-obsessed author; a scathing librarian with a complicated life story; a stoic but clever athletics director; a well-educated and good-intentioned dean with little sense; and a guidance counselor hell bent on running things her way.The students function as protagonists also, sucked into the drama of a grotesque "competition" for which girl student gives the best fellatio, without knowing they're competing. Consequences for disrupting the status quo become severe and dangerous, the very definition of "zero to one hundred". No one is safe from punishment, staff and faculty included, making Alex Witt's mission to dismantle a disturbing sexist environment even more difficult and complicated than it already is.The Swallows is a timely work of satire lampooning private school hijinks and subverting literary stereotypes. Lutz has created a fascinating microcosm, acknowledging how frequently girls and women are relegated to sex objects by men (both intentionally and unintentionally) and what it is like to live in a world defined by male experiences (in literature, in bed, and in life).
2819636535	Alexandra Witt doesn’t take a position as an English teacher at the not-that-illustrious- boarding school Stonebridge with the aim to turn the institution on its head, but that’s exactly what she does. After witnessing some distressing interactions between the boys and the girls at school, Witt encourages the women to stand up for themselves. The boys, of course, aren’t having that, and before they all know it,an all-out gender war is taking place at Stonebridge and all involved are hurtling toward an unhappy ending.This was so much fun! First, the gender politics were spot on. This is definitely a book for the “Me Too” era. I went to a public school, but I can totally see a scaled down version of this sort of thing happening there, or, unfortunately, anywhere. Lutz handles some very sensitive topics pretty deftly, and creates engaging and authentic characters. Foreshadowing early in the book makes it pretty clear that things will end badly, and I found myself racing through the book to find out what happened. The end was pretty weak: the story, while not exactly grounded, felt believable until suddenly it felt like an episode of Riverdale or Gossip Girl or…pick any teen show on the CW, I guess.The best part of this book, by far, is the Blowchart. It is what it sounds like, and it is fabulous. If I had my way, it’d be on the wall of every high and middle school.TLDR: If you are looking for a suspenseful read with some feminist flavorings, you won’t go wrong here. Older teens will find a lot to like here as well.4 stars – I really enjoyed it.Thanks to Ballantine Books and Netgalley for the eARC which I received in exchange for an unbiased review. The Swallows will be released on 13 August, but you can put your copy on hold today!
2804407822	The Swallows by Lisa Lutz is a well done novel that captures the spirit of young well to do students at a boarding school along with complicated adults that teach them. As it alternates voices between male and female students and male and female adults you get a complete picture of the world making up Stonebridge Academy. There was a lot of food for thought about the sex lives of teenagers and how it can be twisted into creating victors and victims. I loved Miss Witt and her battling divorced parents with their strong personalities. And I really felt for some of the students who are trapped on this campus and in their roles and have to figure out a way to come out on top somehow. There are some serious issues so this isn’t a light hearted romp but it does have a good sense of humor and although the tensions between the sexes end in a series of deadly conclusions the reader isn’t left gloomy and depressed.
2979378544	Lisa Lutz id one of my favorites but this one was just a'ight for me, dawg. Too many characters to keep track of, such that you don't feel very attached to any of them.
3412926040	Fave book of 2021. Wow. Absolutely loved every minute of this. This is about a totally fucked up secret held at boarding school that finally gets cracked when a new teacher comes to town and incidentally sparks a gender war. I literally don't care how on the nose the title is, this book was phenomenal. Short chapters! Great characters! Twisted fucked up shit! A boarding school! Immaculate vibes! I'm going to miss Alex Witt and Gemma and Jonah and all of the ax-wielders. What an ending.Tw: sexual assault, rape, pedophilia, suicide
3000859838	I had tried to read this a few months ago but just couldn't even start for some reason. The premise intrigued me though, so I checked it out again and immediately got sucked in. This was really readable and fun. Also shocking—one part in particular had me all OMGGGGGG. Solid 4 stars, rounding up to 4.5.
3277261472	A five star, slow burning, #metoo, boarding school-set revenge thriller that delivers complete and total escapism--which is all I want right now. Badly behaving teens eclipsed by worse behaving adults. Sold! I gulped it down in three days flat.
2794638812	You surprised me, Lutz. In a great way. The darkness is well tempered.
5159112015	trees were harmed in the telling of this story
2921180728	You can keep telling girls to be polite, to keep a level head and it’ll all work out in the end. But don’t be surprised when they figure out that you’ve been feeding them lies.3.5 starsThe Swallows is a little bit hard to define in terms of what categorical box to put it in. I've seen some say it was YA or mystery, but I don't necessarily agree with either of those sentiments. Yeah, it's about an elite boarding school of high school students and well... yeah, it's kind of a mystery. But neither of those shoes seem to fit just right.This is one seriously character dense book, and if the overwhelming number of characters and view points were not enough, they are all repeatedly addressed by nicknames, last names, first names... all the names. I had to check myself on multiple occasions to make sure I was following the story correctly. And honestly, aside from the sheer number of characters and names, it was easy enough to follow. This 'mystery' lacked a real mystery. There is a bit to figure out but it's really more of a drama.But those notes aside, the story is compelling and a fast read. Once I started, I didn't want to stop and I finished it pretty quickly despite being really busy and despite the book itself dealing with pretty serious subject matter. I don't have an issue with the way the subject matter was handled, it's very clear from the beginning so it's not a spoiler when I say that the story revolves around a sexual competition (unbeknownst to many of the female students) that the males are running through their own little hidden and twisted online message board. The meat of the story is how deep this competition goes and what happens when its unwitting participants (and those who find it downright appalling) start to find out.While that subject matter would make you think this is a very 'me too' movement novel, it certainly doesn't feel like one. What's happening is absolutely horrible, but handled with a lightness that won't keep you up at night. It's not humorous or brushed off, but it's also not terribly deep. These are teenagers and Lutz definitely captured the nature of the age group. But the story does not revolve entirely around the students- the primary character is actually a new teacher at the school and the ever-changing character views toggle between Ms Witt, many of the students, and several other faculty members. And all of their stories and history are interesting, though a bit confusing at times.I really enjoyed the last 20% or so of the book, and though some of why is given away very early on, I don't want to spoil that for readers because there are some gripping and emotionally driven moments that unite the reader with the characters in a nicely done way.That being said, it's a very solid 3.5 stars for me- definitely worth your time if the subject matter appeals to you, or you just happen to enjoy dramatic fiction with a ton of view points. Too many view points aside, I really like the way Lutz wrote. I've had her recommended to me many times and while this was my first foray into her books, I can honestly say I'm planning to grab some of the others and see what else she can do.Big thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for sending me an ARC of The Swallows to review.
2797382457	What do birds have to do with a bunch of underage boarding school students playing sex games? Good question. I wish I’d never asked it. Now that I know the answer I can never get my innocence (or naivete) back. Lutz knows how to write though, which is why I kept reading well past the point of enjoyment. I really liked Alex Witt and wished that the majority of the story had been told from her POV because the ensemble cast of what felt like 100 different characters sapped my energy. Who is who, who said what, how are they related? Not that I felt particularly drawn to any of them. I don’t think I am more squeamish than the average person, but as a mother of both a daughter and a son the sinister sex games these teens played horrified me on some deep basic level. But what bothered me most was that the characters are so black and white here: all the boys are truly horrible (even the ones who set out to help the girls as they still enable the perpetrators), and the girls are first clueless but then swiftly turn into an army of avenging angels hell bent on taking down the “old boys club”. All the teachers except Alex are more than happy to turn a blind eye to the sexual predators under their noses, even though these are all underage children in their care. Even those teachers who were forced out of the college because they “knew too much” never once thought to report these goings on to the authorities? Does anyone at all have a conscience here?Okay so let’s suspend disbelief on that front and view the story as a social critique of the dynamics that led to the #metoo movement. Two moments in the book stood out to me: the “Blow Chart” (every teenage girl should get one of these) and the incident with the chillies (just too funny). Mostly though I felt a bit grubby hearing about the sex games of these children. Let’s just concede that I’m probably not the right audience for this book. *blog* *facebook* *instagram*
3024997471	Thanks to the publisher for the free copy in exchange for my honest reviewI’ve heard nothing but great things about Lisa Lutz’s books and this way my introduction to her! I will definitely be going back and picking up her other books. I really enjoyed THE SWALLOWS – a mystery set in a prep school, teachers and students hiding things about the school, a new teacher determined to get to the bottom of things, and an impending gender war. Talk about an intriguing combination!Alex Witt is the new creative writing teacher at the Stonebridge Academy. After a writing assignment, she quickly learns of some dark secrets the school is hiding, and something called The Darkroom. Despite many allegations and plenty of controversy, the school remains hushed about what goes on – the whole “boys will be boys” nonsense. As we all know though, hell hath no fury, and the girls are ready to fight back.I really enjoyed the graphics that were scattered throughout the book. Those are always fun to have included and helped pull you into the story more. There were a lot of characters and sometimes things felt a little jumbled together, but that didn’t really take away from the reading experience. I think if the cast of narrators was trimmed down then it would have had a better flow to it. Despite some of the perspectives coming from students, I wouldn’t call this a YA novel because I don’t think it’s geared toward a younger audience.Overall, I just couldn’t put this one down. I really enjoyed the writing and seeing the mystery unfold. I loved Alex, she was a great character. One you could really connect with and that Blowchart? Gotta love it. I would highly recommend this one and I will be going back to pick up more from Lutz.
