3729143260	the best book i've read in a really long time. 2020 was sort of a fail on all fronts for me, so finding such a good book so early in 2021 feels like a good omen.PICK THIS UP!
7013862769	One of my favorite books I’ve read this year. It had everything I love. Dark academia, a woman coming into her power, secret society and demons!!!!! LOVED
6321320711	3.5🌟I loved how unique the premise of the story following king Arthur's lineage was to me! it was so refreshing to read a YA fantasy book that felt so unique and not being able to guess where it was going because it wasn't following a specific structure! I really enjoyed the romance but I am super nervous to see where it goes in the next book. also the end had my jaw on the floor!
5208164831	This was so good?! My only complaint is that I feel like I don't have a full understanding for the world, but everything outside of that was solid. I loved the characters so much! We have so many solid dynamics and fun interactions throughout the story. I'm definitely eager to see where things go in book two!
3427978749	Where should I even begin?!? Listen, I’m quite familiar with the legend of King Arthur but never in my life have I seen it done in this way. There is so much to unpack in this novel. The character development, the plot development, the spectacular writing, the university history woven into every single page, the connections I felt to the Black history discussed. Everything was done in such a fast paced and interesting manner that gave me such a connection to the story as a whole.While this is being compared to the Mortal Instruments, I find that this novel is capable of standing on its own. There is a complexity and rich history that I found in this book that I didn’t necessarily find in TMI. The world building is intense and I’m a stickler for good world building. Deonn is careful in crafting a complex world while still explaining certain nuances without revealing too much to the reader. She even took the time to include pronunciation guides within the heart of the text (I loved this!). In each and every chapter there was another layer pulled away revealing so much about the world and about Bree. There is this discussion about fantastical worlds and abilities through the lens of Black and a White people and that even in these settings, Black individuals were forced to hide their abilities for fear of persecution. There’s a dichotomy of this world that Bree must attempt to navigate which in my opinion speaks to how Black people must function in predominately White arenas even if it is just a fantasy. This is especially true to those of us that attend PWIs instead of HBCUs. Trying to navigate those experiences can be challenging. We definitely see this conflict exhibited in Bree and some of the challenges she faces when she attempts to work with the Legendborn.Speaking of Bree, I loved her. I connected with her. I felt for her. All of this happens while she still is attempting to process her mother’s death. And while a lot of this is an exploration of attempting to figure out what happened to her mother, a great portion of this is an examination of grief. I, myself, have not felt the pain of losing a parent but Deonn made me empathetic to Bree and her journey. There is so much to be said about the conversations regarding mental health and how Bree does and does not process her trauma. There’s a lot to be said about the Black communities treatment of mental health. Honestly, as I’m writing this I’m still amazed at how seamlessly Deonn was able to weave in so many different aspects into just the character development. There are other main and side characters that are super diverse in race, ethnicity, gender identity, and sexuality. I loved and I mean loved that it was so casual. It wasn’t added for the sake of adding it. It was representative of the norm. It didn’t move the plot. It didn’t change anything. Deonn was simply allowing her characters to be themselves. It was brilliant.Hands down this is one of the best fantasies of 2020. And I mean truly one of the best. I’m honestly still trying to gather my thoughts but my goodness this book was pure brilliance with amazing writing, a fast plot, and such fun characters. I learned so much about root magic and it’s connection to our ancestors. I mean I just learned a heck of a lot and I love when books do that. And just wait for the twist and turns. Haha. Expect nothing. Don’t think you know anything. If you haven’t checked out this book please please please make sure you give it a try!
4504019737	there's that whole cliché about how doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results is the definition of insanity, but actually when it comes to me reading YA fantasy over and over and expecting to still like it, it's called "being brave."and in this case...i'm thrilled to announce i've been rewarded.i mean, kinda. this feels like the best possible take on a cliché - it's fun and readable, but the love triangles and the confusing magic and the instalove and the dialoguey info dumps are all still there.so i guess it's not that surprising that i really loved the first bit of this, but it took me 3 separate instances of picking it up to get through it.the friendship and father relationship were kinda left by the wayside, and, again, there was both instalove and a love triangle, the two laziest ways to insert romance...but the mother relationship was great. does it feel like we could have accomplished more in 544 pages? sure. but this is an incredibly long YA fantasy and i managed to finish it, and that says a lot in this day and age!!!bottom line: yay, basically!----------------tbr reviewme: i think i've outgrown YA fantasyalso me: time to add every single hyped book to my tbr
3770570517	tw: death of a parent; generational trauma (depictions of slavery, abuse, rape); gore; possession; demons; racism and micro-aggressionsThis was one of the most outstanding debuts I have ever read. I went into this book fairly blind but knowing it was getting some hype, and that is well worth it. Even during a reading slump, I was able to experience the majesty of this story. Deonn combines fantasy elements that I never would have considered going together masterfully, while also weaving those fantasy elements in with the very real issues of grief, racism, oppression, and heritage. There are so many lines in here that are a punch to the chest. What initially seems like it could be more of a cookie-cutter YA story ends up being so much more. Initially, some of the romance elements I wasn't sure about, but as the story progressed (and with elements at play revealed in the ending), I'm invested. I cannot wait for the rest of the very promising series.
3924573873	DNF@60% I dont even know how I made it this far through this book because I didn't like the writing style nor did I like the narration when I switched to audio. I know I'm in the minority and I wanted to love this so bad!!. The only reason I waited so long to read this was because I wanted a paperback of it but whenever I went to buy it, I bought something else and I think that was just god helping me atp. So, I got the audiobook instead and the ebook but both of them were meh. I feel like this read a little too young with it also being too long and extremely booooooooooooooring. Also the audiobook was fucking atrocious.WE were going around in a spiral for soooo long and the main thing began to late for me, at times I just wanted to roll my eyes at the characters. Bree was okay I liked her at times and hated her at others. I feel like the whole plotline wasnt impactful enough like it wasnt giving anything and I felt like I was just reading for the sake of not dnf'ing this book and honestly I would look at my audiobook speed which would go from 1.75 to 2 to 2.5 and 3x was looking at me with wide eye and I honestly almost reached the part where that would have been the case.The characters were meh too. I only found Bree to be engaging and event that was not a lot but the side characters were so mid and sometimes when the main character does not deliver the side characters make up for it and unfortunately that wasnt the case here. The romance was also mid at best. Which is sooo disappointing because why would you give us a dish with practically nothing on it, like she really served it to us with the cover and everything only for waiter to reveal an empty dish. I would blame my expectation but it wouldnt have been a one star if it was just my expectations soooo not that.The worldbuilding was a massive load of info dumping. Things would be thrown at us at one point and then we would be robbed of the basic definition of something from that world and then we'd be bombarded with info and it just turned into this vicious cycle that made me want to scream. I hate, hate books that have massive potential but dont deliver on it. Although I do see why so many people enjoyed this book but it just got on my nerve a lotOverall, this was mid and I would not recommend it. To the people who bought the book (Hoda) im sorry for the money you wasted :(___Another one of the first few books from my goodreads tbr. I've been eyeing this book because it' sounds so interesting and it's an King Arthur's retelling but the audiobooks okay so far :(
3602229646	This one wasn't half-bad.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
3642702020	3.5 StarsI really thought I was going to love this book more than I did, but unfortunately it was a little bit of a disappointment for me. Don’t get me wrong though, I still enjoyed it, but I was predicting a 5 star read!The things I loved about this book was the characters, such as Bree (main character), as I really enjoyed how she dealt with her grief and how strong she was, as a character. I also really liked the romance! This book has a love triangle, which I usually don’t love that much, but I actually quite like how it was done in this. I don’t even know which pairing I prefer! I also really liked how racism and Slavery was discussed in the book, I think the way it was integrated into the story was great! The ending of the book was also another thing I loved, as I didn’t see the twist coming!However, my main issue with this book was how hard it was for me to understand the Legendborn world. There were a lot of terms used and I found it hard to follow and it made me lose interest in the book. By the end of the book, I feel like I understand most of it but I still feel a bit confused. I think a glossary would have benefited this book a lot, or it definitely would have benefited me at least! Overall, I enjoyed it and will most likely read the sequel. As I definitely want to know more after that ending!
3567840532	Wow, I did not expect this to be so intense and deep. This is such a robust and gripping modern day fantasy tale. So thoroughly entertaining. This author deserves a lot of acclaim for the complex and intricate world building alone. The unconventional perspective on fantasy was so refreshing. I was honestly shaken multiple times through the book due to the plot twists and bombshells, which kept me riveted.Can see this easily becoming a new favorite among fantasy lovers.
3736390079	4.5 ⭐️ Tracy Deonn don’t be shy, drop book 2 already! OMG I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH! The reason why I’m knocking off half a star is because there was so much information dump in the beginning and it took me a while to get into this book. honestly that’s more of a me problem. But once the plot started to thicken I was unstoppable. These characters are my new comfort characters and I will protect them at all cost. The best part about this book however, is the writing. This author literally has a gift. from the racism, sexism, and grief that Bree deals with throughout the book-is very real and very well written. the world building and magic system of this book, it did not disappoint. also not to be dramatic but i would die for Sel❤️ my merlin!
4005660528	absolutely unreal. maybe, probably, almost certainly the best book i’ve read this year.
4167645973	Legendborn and Bree Matthews captivated me more than traditional Arthurian lore and crusty dudes in chainmail ever could. I went in expecting swords and teenage melodrama, maybe a few tortured love triangles and a gratuitous prophecy or two. And to be fair, I did get a bit of that. But alongside it came Arthurian legend stripped of its medieval cosplay and dunked into the deep, dark, rotten heart of American history. Colonisation. Slavery. Racism. Oppression. White supremacy. Police brutality. Generational trauma. Legacy.The opening chapters damn near lost me. The first third reads very YA, and I was drowning in info-dumping. Every knight’s lineage, secret societies, magic systems and magic rules written by dead men came at me like a textbook I didn’t sign up to read. I nearly DNF’d. But once I stopped trying to memorise every rule and ancestral connection to the Knights of the Round Table and let go of the need to understand everything, the emotional core of the book started doing the heavy lifting and suddenly, I was in.Because this isn’t a story about knights. It’s about Bree Matthews. A grief-stricken Black girl pulled into a legacy built to exclude her, break her, rewrite her. She doesn’t discover magic so much as collide with it and have to confront its cost. The price of legacy. The weight of memory. The inheritance of violence, both stolen and survived.That’s where the book hit me hardest: in its magic systems. Legendborn power is colonizer magic. It’s draining and it devours and steals, coming at a cost to the user. Whereas Rootcraft is ancestral, borrowed and connective. Which kind of legacy do you claim when you’re seeking answers and possibly revenge for the death of your mother?Somewhere between the duels, cutthroat competitions and the secret societies, Legendborn stops pretending to be an Arthurian YA fantasy adventure and becomes a confrontation with grief, history, with the stories we’re told about power and the ones we’re never allowed to tell ourselves.It’s messy. It’s heartwarming. It's brutal. It’s brilliant. You should read it.________________________Patience is a virtue I don’t have which is why I'm late to the Legendborn party so that I can binge read a near complete series 🥂
3592772831	I received a copy of this book via NetGalley (thank you Simon & Schuster Canada). All thoughts and opinions are my own.✅ Writing✅🆗 Main character🆗 Plot🆗❌ World-building (complex hierarchy)❌ Info-dumpDNF at 29%I know that this is a very unpopular opinion as I saw and read so many 4 stars and 5 stars reviews. I wanted to like this book so much, but I just could not get into the story. This book has great potential and I understand why it is so popular, but sadly it was not for me.The basic storyline of the book is quite easy to follow, but the Legendborn world? Not that easy…Bree’s mother died three months ago. Now, Bree just left her home to start fresh at the University of North Carolina. There, she sees magic and realizes that it is in fact the second time that someone used magic to erase her memory (but it did not work, and no one can explain why). The first time was the night her mother died. Determined to find out what really happened to her mother, Bree decides to try to join the Legendborns, a secret group dedicated to eliminating the Shadowborns (demons) with their magic (called aether), so she can find out what happened the night her mother died. Bree got used to the fact that demons can access her world through gates fast and easily. She also learned specific vocabulary quickly. Honestly, I got lost during the explications a few times, there seemed to be so many different factions to the Legendborn (or should I say different Chapters with a very strict hierarchy: Legendborn, Vassals, Page, Scion, chosen squire, Mage, etc.). I could not get a clear picture of this secret organization. The members talk about ‘’The Code of Secrecy’’ or ‘’The Order Law’’, but do not give any more details about it. I do not mind a complex magic system and the one in this book is actually really interesting, but there were whole pages of info-dumping.It has a Mortal Instrument vibe, but in this book, the Legendborns need to worry about their everyday life. They are not invisible beings that spend their whole days killing demons. They need to go to school and keep up the appearance of normal life at any cost. I liked this part, it made everything much more relatable. What bothered me was how well Bree adapts to her new reality, she even says how she has an advantage over the other Pages because she saw someone use aether before and she saw demons twice before entering the secret society. It feels as if everything falls right into place for her. She is a 16 years old teenager and she managed to infiltrate the Legendborn society even though she knows nothing about them, more than that, people just tell her inside information because she asks them. She manages to fight a demon when almost everyone else gets injured… I like that she is fierce, but it didn’t feel right how everything was going so well for her after 72 hours of being thrust into this new world.Bree is a great main character; she has spunk and is not afraid to speak her mind. It is also nice that she is a black character, I have (sadly) not read a lot of books with a black main character and it was nice to discover this story with a slightly different perspective than what I am used to. It was interesting to discover her inner thoughts and to see how she deals with racist comments and assumptions or how her perspective is affected by the history of segregation in the United States. Nick is the golden boy sidekick who lives near the campus and decides to help Bree even though he rejected his Legendborn legacy many years ago. He is a nice character, but nothing special. Then there is Selwyn, he is intriguing, and I think that I would have liked him.Overall, I know that this is a great book for many people, but it was not one for me. It was hard for me to get into this story because of all the info-dumping. I must mention though that the writing is gorgeous, and I really enjoyed the author's style.Follow me on Instagram 🙂
3503187730	Star Rating: —> 5 Stars[Buddy read with my bby Darceyyyyy !]11/12/2022— BRR with my bestie & lil sis, DARCEY! AGAIN (obv lol). Clearly ALL THE STARS I might just be a fan of a poly relationship in this series, I’ve realized! Deonn would do by the rep so, so very right! 🥰This is a novel of Arthurian legends retold & re-vamped, and amazing as hell Southern Black Girl Magic.(It kinda gave off some hunger games vibes at times, or maybe more HP-ish ones, actually? Maybe. Maybe a mix of both?Or more Shadowhunters? 🤔*thinking on it*)Regardless, just trust me on THIS, guys ... THIS LEFT ME STUNNED! Consider me officially *SHOOKETH!*Legendborn seriously is such an EPIC READ; I could NOT tear myself away from this story, except for when I absolutely had to, & even then, my husband practically had to pry it from my hands. 😂! I say that with 100% honesty. This is such a unique, completely engrossing, make your heart race, AMAZING, & diverse novel! It puts a fresh new spin on some familiar themes, and introduces some that are completely original!This is, without a doubt, one of my top 5 favorite YA fantasy novels that i’ve read this year.The fact that it’s an #ownvoices novel made it all the better. I loved the non-binary & LGBTQIA+ reps, as well! (& Sel is PAN ! *Squeeeeeeeeee* Deonn confirmed it on twitter!!!)This book also has such a powerful message about Black women. About their strength, their tenacity, the injustices they have to face throughout their lives... It is just EPIC on ALL levels.So, yeah, I mean, what can I say... This book seriously made my heart SING & SOAR! And also makes it all hurt-y in the BEST WAY EVERRR.I also have to say...UHHH, GIRL F*CKING POWER. From moment ONE. the MC, BREE IS EFFING INCREDIBLE! She refuses to let people treat her unfairly, is 100% NOT afraid to share what’s on her mind, & is just so badass!And omg ALICE! GIRL... HELL TO THE YES, GET IT. Also, *PSA TIME*I had written that I was shipping a certain two people in one of my updates, but I must inform you that I am nowww officially aboard Ship “The Unknown”, after my reread 😂. Enough said.Just saying though…I mean srsly... I am so in love with Sel! He is so DAMN PRECIOUS!BUT NICK! I didn’t give him enough credit during my first read ! He is just so cute ! Ugh, choices, choices. SO HARD!Oh, hai there, newest book boyfriend(s)! *swoons*I always end up falling for the dark, haunted souls (being hot as hell sure does NOT hurt.) 😂It’s my thing. It’s what I do. 🤷🏼‍♀️1000 times over recommend!
2436944073	This was a fantasy that stood out among the other releases this year. Love it or hate it this book brought a different premise and I saw a lot of fanfare around it. It gave me a lot to think about and break down.Bree Matthew's is still grieving her mother's death and getting accepted into UNC Chapel Hill's early college program seems like the distraction she needs. But was her mother's death actually an accident? Bree ends up stumbling upon a secret Arthurian society that may have the answer she seeks. After a strange encounter at a party. Bree enlists help from reluctant Legendborn Nick. I liked that this was set on a college campus. Especially since this story is set in a somewhat realistic version of our world it provided a way for Bree to sneak out every night without being under her father's watchful eye. However the school life aspect was underdeveloped and there was no balance there whatsoever. Also these teens could've easily been bumped up to 18 year old college students instead of being high schoolers. The school aspect could've been fleshed out better and would've balanced the story.There is a romance with a love triangle brewing at the surface and some insta-love. I really wasn't feeling the one relationship so I hope it doesn't go in that direction. I felt the book could've stood without the romantic aspect because it was giving early 2010s YA vibes with the two generic archetypes of male love interests. Also the descriptions of them being boys who looked like men was creepy.For the most part was very fast paced except for some info-dumpy sections particularly in the middle. Initially the acceptance of magic was breezed over so quickly it gave me whiplash. I am interested in reading more though the medieval fantasy aspect didn't capture me. I'm having a hard time understanding that magic system and really could use a good explanation of how everyone's powers work.There also needs to be more development on the character front. Bree was so one track minded and we didn't get many scenes with her genuinely connecting with the people around her. Her lack of Black peers was jarring to me especially since she was so surrounded by white kids in the order. And her best friend was shown so little I didn't even believe their closeness.I am interested in seeing how things develop in the next book since this is a trilogy.I received an arc via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.Read more athttps://womenofcolorreadtoo.blogspot....
7385787526	4.5 starsI’m so mad at myself for not picking this up sooner. I LOOOOOVE King Arthur lore and this book DELIEVERED. Think of this book like this: The Knights of the Round Table had magical powers that they used to protect the world from demons, and those powers have been passed down generation to generation and are awakened when there is war coming, one knight at a time up the ranks until finally, Arthur is awakened. Now add in a secret society that is old school, and NOT in a good way (most of the people in this society are absolutely horrible people with horrible beliefs), and throw in a girl that is trying to figure out how her mom died. This book talks about soooo many important things, while also giving us a FABULOUS fantasy plot. I'm invested. This deserves ALL of the hype and is exactly what I want when I pick up a YA fantasy. It gives the depth that is needed in a story like this. I am going straight into Bloodmarked and I cannot be stopped.
3652701676	“Don't make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.” “The most important thing you can do in this world, the most necessary thing, is to survive it. You can't do anything for anyone else if you don't take care of yourself first.” rating - 3.75 stars✨✨ Legend Born is the first book in a fantasy series that has come out last year by author Tracy Deonn. This book is definitely something else. It is a diverse urban fantasy story inspired by something I had 0 clue off Merlin and King Arthur and his thirteen knights. It involves a secret society of people with powers that are from this line called legendborns that has a lot of history in it. It follows a black 16 year old main character that deals with racism , grief from the death of her mother recently and mental illnesses caused my grieve PTSD and upcoming PCBD. She comes across a accident that brings her to this magical order and then things happen and she believes her mothers death might not be an accident and might be involved with this order of legendborns that hunt shadowborns [ aka demons that come to earth to make chaos ] It also has several Bi and Gay reps in the story and history of black people. So quite a lot of cool things....Things krizzie loves about this book Worldbuilding & magic – The worldbuilding and magic in this book are really freaking cool. They are definitely super complex and my peanut brain could not handle it at times sometimes had to read certain pages more then 3 times and still did not understand which is a little bit downside but once the story progresses even tho the magic Is confusing because it is a lot , it is super cool with lots of different powers and lots of history and things that are coming together in the story. It has no info dump which was in this case both really great because it wasn’t boring but also a little confusing sometimes to keep up because everything in the world happened fast and vague. Overall the world and magic is really cool and I did love it besides having a peanut brain. The plot – The plot is so good. Bree is dealing with grieve from her mothers death and is in the middle of progressing that and hurting because of it when she comes upon the order and thinks her mothers death might be connected to this which is becoming like a puzzle we are finding out with her as we also find out the order with her as she joins to have a position in the order to find out about her mother so she goes to a competition with trials. Its character driven and plot driven and I really enjoyed the plot. There where somany twistst and it felt like a big puzzle that I needed to figure out with my peanut brain but I really enjoyed the plot. Its coooool and I n t r e s t I n g. The charracters – I enjoyed Bree as a main character and I especially enjoyed how the author handled grieve and mental illness in this story and her charracter. I love fantasy stories with charracters in it that deal with mental illness that’s krizzies perfect combination. We see bree struggle with grieve and its ugly and that’s what grieve is and I could relate to her. She deals with PTSD from her mothers death and panic attacks. She also talks with a therapist during this book which I liked that diagnosed her with upcoming PCBD. the author also experienced these mentall illnesses she said so you could really feel like the author knew what she had written. Bree is also badass which I liked and not whiny and stupid. I liked the topic of racism in her character and in this book in general it’s a good thing in a book to make people a w a r e. It does have really strong chosen one special snowflake vibes but I didn’t really mind it I do have to say I usually don’t mind that trope that much. I also enjoyed Sel a lot who is my kinda guy. Dark hair , part demon , dark , sarcastic , broken. Yes sign me up please. I need more of him right now , thankyou. Things krizzie didn’t love The romance INSTA LOVE ALERT EW– The romance is between Bree and The son of the ruler of the legend born secret society who is very much a standard golden boy. Boring. And there love is very insta love. They basically are in love and love eachother all of the sudden in two days. I really hated this and could not connect to the romance of them at all. It was so forced. I hate insta love. I also feel a love triangle coming which I don’t like. With sel and bree also becoming a thing maybe. I do like those two there is more chemistry there and no insta love barving shit. So yeah the romance in this book isn’t my thing at all. Because puky insta love. Nick , side charracters– the goldedboy character , I coudnt connect and I think he is very standard. There where a cast of cool side character but I feel like we don’t get enough information to them and I need more of that , that could have been done better.Overall I struggeled a bit with the beginning and world of the book but ended up really enjoying the magic and worldbuilding as it is freaking amazing , I love the plot and the puzzle , the dealings with mentall illness and the diversity of this book I love , the main character is great and diverse and not standard besides being the chosen one. What I didn’t like was the insta love and some typical basic character * nick * * cough * but overall I enjoyed this book and I am excited for the second. I would reccoment if you want a diverse fantasy , the insta love does suck but the rest is good so I can live with it if it gets solved and drowned quickly.Krizzie out ,bye ; ) also I need more sel
3979872373	She triedI am definitely split writing this but I won’t give into rewarding something just because it has cultural value. The black part of me likes that the author tried to acknowledge and put in some of our struggles but I don’t think it was done in a productive manner. She portrayed a constantly victimized black person and this is just one perspective that isn’t truly reflective of the total black experience. It’s somewhat unfair to white people making them all seem ignorant or outright belligerent. It’s unfair to black people making it look like we are constantly worried about race. Some of us are proud and extremely happy with what we have achieved and feel a connection to all that came before us without the explicit need for family walls and names. There is injustice and unfairness in black lives but this was a ham handed way to present it.The fantasy book lover in me hated the main character. She was entitled, whinny, and overall weak. She was crazy self righteous and bold but when it came to actually facing enternal and external challenges she ran and or collapsed. It was like watching a child throw temper tantrums to get her way and then when she did and realizing it wasn’t what she wanted throwing it away. The magic system could have been interesting if you didn’t have to wait 85% book to get to it. I applaud the effort but I truly didn’t enjoy the experience.
3419960477	maybe i’ll review this when i have actual clear thoughts to form words....but for now i’m just gonna settle with I NEED THE NEXT BOOK AND I NEED IT NOW
6803807187	I am sooooo late to this fantasy but better late than never. This story was incredible. The author had in her head the emotions she wanted you to feel and she delivered. I will continue to shout from the mountain tops to not let the YA designation deter you as an adult to read these stories!!This story deals with grief, trauma and deeply rooted racism as we follow an amazing main character who delves into some unique magical systems at the University of North Carolina.I now have another series to dive into especially after that ending.4.5/5
6290316228	➳ i am in a slump ☆this was definitely not what i was expecting. i honestly had no clue WHAT to expect before i started reading this. a lot of the side plots and the side characters are very cliché fantasy devices, but i enjoyed the magic system and the world building. at times, i felt like this was actually VERY confusing. i read a lot of high fantasy and fantasy books with a wide cast of characters. however, legendborn's pacing and info-dumping was taking me out of the narrative. to top this off, i also felt like there was too much of instant obsession and love, with a random love triangle that was thrown into the mix. i would've liked this way MORE if this was around 150 pages shorter. with the level of details that were presented to us, i would've preferred a more concise and faster paced book with less side characters. i am also flopping so badly right now? help a girl out.
3920357190	Reread October 2022: still as incredible as the first time around, and more than ready for Bloodmarked!I'm kicking myself for not being better about bookmarking quotes I'd like to use in reviews while listening to audio, because this story has many sections that are worthy of remembering. After seeing so many raving reviews about this book, I was eager to jump in, and after waiting for what felt like ages, my audiobook hold from the library came in. It was the absolute perfect timing in listening to this book, and if the second were already released, I would have jumped straight into that one as well. I can't get enough of this world that Tracy Deonn has created!I'm not typically a big reader of Arthurian retellings, but this is by far the best one I've come across. Think of it as part urban fantasy, part murder mystery, with a dash of romance (and possibly a light love triangle in the next book?) Heavy themes of racism, both overt and microaggressions alike, are touched on and might be disturbing to some readers, but their inclusion is necessary to the plot line and I felt tied in so well with the overarching message of the story. Also, topics of grief, family, and generational trauma are spoken on as well, and once we see how all of these things tie together, it makes a profound statement as to where I see the next book taking us.But wait! Please don't let the heaviness of that paragraph make it sound like this book is just doom and gloom. There is so much joy to be seen here. Young, budding love, the loyalty of childhood friends, strong paternal/daughterly bonds: it's all here. I adored seeing Bree come into her own and discover not only who she is in the Legendborn world, but as a daughter, friend, and young Black woman. I love when we get the opportunity to watch our main characters grow, especially when they don't start out these hardened, totally strong characters, but have to come into that. Also, I'm going to need more Bree + Sel, please and thank you. Gah, this book was a fresh breath of air in a saturated genre, and I am here for it!
3803800318	I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH.THE FREAKING COVER, THE AWESOME CHARACTERS ARE MY LIFELINEAND SEL MY DEAR SEL WHEN WILL I SEE YOU AGAIN😭💖
3572174431	Legendborn was a pleasant surprise! It should get nominated for GR’s award of 2020’s best debut at the very least. It reimagines the Arthurian Legend in a completely new way. You see, the knights of the round table were stronger than your usual knight. They fought demons or rather “Shadowborns” and kept them at bay saving humans from them. Their descendants, the Legendborn, inherited their power and they’re still hunting demons centuries later. Our main character, Bree, ends up getting involved with this secret society. When she decided to attend Carolina’s Early College, she didn’t expect her life to be changed forever. She had witnessed supernatural events and believed her mother's death accident wasn’t just an accident. She ended up finding a lot more about her dead mother, family history, and of course, the knights and King Arthur.I liked Bree, she’s a complex main character, strong-willed, and doesn’t back down. She also doesn’t takes shit from anybody. The secondary characters were at the very least two dimensional. Nick was so sweet and I don’t want anybody to hurt him but at the same time, he was spoiled a bit. There’s no “perfect” character. They had their shortcomings but they also kicked ass. I cared about many of them especially Sel and Bree’s dad. I also loved how this book handled racism and inequality issues. Bree faced any discrimination she faced and spoke out, putting people in their place. My favorite thing about this book is probably the last revelation and plot twist, it was very powerful and satisfying in a you-had-that-coming kind of way.If you want diversity? This book is for you. Alice, the best friend is a lesbian. We also had gays, bis, etc. And of course, the main character is a black girl. I usually feel pressure when I’m reading a very diverse book, advertised mostly because of its diversity, what if I didn’t like it? Will people say I’m racist, or whatever? Although I learned to not overthink it anymore, after all, I disliked so many books with white MCs too, I still feel weird like for not liking COBAB. However, I absolutely enjoyed this book and loved many of its characters. It had all the elements I want in a YA:-complex heroine who isn’t annoying nor acts stupid and helpless-fast paced plot-interesting story-imaginative world-building-cute and likable love interest-enjoyable secondary characters-unpredictableSadly, this book had a few weaknesses.The events of this book were set into motion before it started so this book was pretty fast-paced. Although it was over 500 pages, don’t worry. You won’t get bored, if anything you’d need to catch up. It took me a bit to absorb all of the Legendborn history and hierarchy. Which is okay, I’m not a passive reader so I do like to figure things out and analyze the structure of, for example, the knights of the round table secret society. But what I didn’t like was the fact that we had so many coincidences and conveniences. Some events were never explained/tackled and some events were just too convenient. All books have such occurrences but it was overdone here. SO much happened during 3 weeks. It was also rushed in some parts. Half of the book happens in the first week of school. I wish we had more build-up. Bree could’ve come early for example to settle in and such. The demons could’ve taken a bit longer to start showing up. Bree could’ve practiced for a longer time. We can see why Alice and Bree are best friends instead of being told about it.Which brings me to my other point. The other thing that I wasn’t a big fan of was Bree and Alice’s fight at the start, it felt useless especially since it was the first of what we saw of Alice. Again, I think them having a fight at that point and Alice ratting her to her father was convenient. She was her best friend for 8 years and that’s how she behave knowing Bree is going through a tough time? I didn’t believe Alice wasn’t good for a second, it was more like the author needing to behave this way to generate particular actions that lead to specific important events. I wish Deonn relied more on logic even if the book had to be longer.At one time, Bree met three women, she knew who their BOYS are because well, genes. She rightly guesses the THREE boys (and not girls, would’ve been more logical if it was the latter since daughters look more like mothers than sons like mothers…), again, it’s not possible. There are some instances when I didn’t like how Bree behaved and at one point what she did was unbelievable (view spoiler)[beating two guys who have trained their whole lives just after training for 5 days? She never even lost the first fight but accidentally stepped out of the arena… ridiculous (hide spoiler)]I hate love triangles. If I know a book has a love triangle, I rarely bother with it anymore. We had one here. I think the romance between Bree and Nick was WAY TOO RUSHED. We could’ve done without it. I understand why they feel a connection and it makes total sense but I didn’t like how even the romance progressed too fast. As for the other guy, we only had electricity, and you how touching is described in a book, there wasn’t any affirmation of their feelings but it was hinted. I hope it doesn’t progress into a full triangle and in this case a love triangle from several sides… Other than that, I really had fun reading this book. It was a solid debut but it had its shortcomings. I quite liked Deonn’s reimagination of the Arthurian Legend, it was innovative. The characters were also well developed and I’m already looking forward to reading the second book.
4839780987	“Don't make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.” While I haven't been writing reviews really fast these days, I couldn't NOT write one right after finishing this book because AH, I AM OBSESSED.I had very high expectations because I haven't heard a bad thing about this book, and while it took me FOREVER to read this (it's all my fault, I'm reading too many books right now), I FLEW through it once I actually allowed myself to get sucked in, and my sky high expectations were met!!“Love is a powerful thing, more powerful than blood, although both run through us like a river.”This may be a me thing, but in the beginning this book was really confusing. Like there was so much stuff I had to learn and so much information was being thrown out there. I still am really confused about some things, but I managed to make it through the book, so that's a plus.I liked how speedy the plot was too- nothing seemed really slow, and, especially in the final chapters, so much was going on. I was always on the edge of my seat and was gasping out loud and making these strange shocked noises.The writing was also gorgeous. It just flowed so well with the story and it helped tell the story so well, with all its complexities and twists. The world felt real and whole, as did the characters (which as a character driven person, I loved).Also, the twists were so well done! Like I was so shocked at the end, with all those twists and I NEED the next book (it is a necessity, not even just a want anymore, a necessity)“Two faults. My race and my gender. But they are not faults. They are strength. And I am more than this man can comprehend.”I LOVE BREE WITH MY WHOLE HEART. I haven't liked a main protagonist this much in a very long time. For once, I was never annoyed with the decisions she made, and she was extremely rational and I understood the reasonings behind all of her actions. She is also a literal queen, like whenever she stood up to people I was beaming down at my book so much. Her character felt so real- her trauma and grief was so well written and I could feel Bree's sadness and loss. The racism Bree had to deal with felt so well-written, and all of these issues were wonderfully talked about.I loved Nick a lot in the beginning, and while I still like him now, it's just a little less. That's only because, since I'm incredibly dramatic, I don't ship him and Bree together. But we'll get to that later. He's so sweet and loving and I can tell how much he cares about Bree.Moving on to Sel, my new favorite male character. I. LOVE. HIM. SO. MUCH. His dark, brooding, sarcastic attitude (we all know by now how much I adore these kinds of characters) combined with the fact that he's got dark hair, golden eyes, AND TATTOOS=PERFECTION. AND WHAT MAKES IT EVEN BETTER: UNDERNEATH THE BROODING DARK SURFACE IS THE FACT THAT HE DEEPLY CARES FOR SOME PEOPLE AND WOULD KILL PEOPLE TO SAVE THEM. AH 🙇‍♀️🙇‍♀️🛐🛐🧎‍♀️🧎‍♀️SEL>>>NICKI'M A SEL GIRLIE ALL THE WAY THROUGHthank you“Why someone dies is not the same question as why they are gone.”The romance is one of my favorite parts. At least, it will be if Sel and Bree end up together. I SWEAR TO GOD IF THEY DON'T-In the beginning I was wary because I hate love triangles and I knew that this one had one, but it's hardly really there, and thankfully I still like the guy I'm not rooting for (Nick if you can't already tell)I really want to see how the romance progresses in Bloodmarked because the synopsis says "growing attraction" to Sel (believe me, when I read that part I giggled and kicked my feet) despite her love for Nick (not gonna lie, I hope the love diminishes to friendship 😃😃).Anywho, BREE AND SEL FOR LIFE“Some truths only tragedy can teach.”Overall, I loved this book so much and I really need the next one. I won't break my book ban because I don't want to just order one book on Amazon (whenever I do buy more books it'll definitely be more than one) but I REALLY want Bloodmarked right now. I cannot wait to get to it.I've said something like this already but: SELWYN KANE CAN STEP ON ME5 stars “They that would be a leader, let them be a bridge.” <><><><><><><>HOLY SHIT. I NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW, I DON'T CARE IF IT'S A HARDCOVER AND I HAVE THE PAPERBACK OF THIS BOOKSELWYN KANE CAN RUN ME OVER WITH A BUS AND I'D LET HIMRTC
5160390465	at first i didn’t want to read legendborn because i can’t relate to being the only black girl in a school and i couldn’t understand why anyone would write that but after some thought i realized you shouldn’t read books to relate. this is tracy deonn’s story to tell and i should at least give it a try before writing it off. i’m very glad i did give it a try because this book was quite fun. i think that this book is very well written and the fantasy of it is really good, you can tell it’s really thought out and planned. i think this book would benefit a lot from having a glossary. there’s a lot of terminology that i kept confusing with the other and things i didn’t understand that i just had to keep going. i do feel like this could’ve been an adult book instead of a ya book because i don’t really understand what was the point of putting them on a college campus but making them under 18?? the middle of the book dragged a lot for me but i think that’s just because i’m not much of a big book reader and this book is like 500 pages with small ass font. as for the characters, im not sure if it’s because of the fact that i’m an adult and i’m just older than the characters or because of the way that the author writes them but i just couldn’t connect to the characters. i don’t really feel like the characters had much personality besides being archetypes. the romance to me is barely there which is fine but like… why the hell is everyone shipping these people? i do like how this gives me the infernal devices, how it has a real love triangle where everyone is connected.
3373969958	MY MIND IS BLOWN RIGHT NOW. Wow, this book. It does have a slow start and took me awhile to get used to the whole magic system and Arthurian legend background. Bree was kind of thrown into this world, so I did enjoy learning about everything with her, it just took me a long time to get who was who among the tons of characters and how their magic/hierarchy worked. This book is so action-packed and the last 100 pages were ABSOLUTELY INSANE. I am still not sure what to think right now about what happened. I loved every second of this book and so many twists and turns were thrown in near the end. They all made sense, but I saw none of it coming and it was so good! And can we talk about Sel? He is definitely my favorite character of this book and I really hope we get more of him in the sequel. Bree was a great main character and I loved the depth to her. She was grieving losing her mother and was determined to find out the secrets behind who her mom was and what really happened behind her death. My heart went out to Bree and the loss she was going through, but I also loved the growth she went through and what she was able to learn and overcome. I could't recommend this book enough! I'm already dying for book two and I know that this ending is going to stick with me for a long time!
3599974970	THE LOVE OF MY LIFE IS THIS PRETTY BOOK
5362899365	“They are past-tensing my heart—my whole beating, bleeding, torn heart—right in front of me.” I really enjoyed this one so much, much like most of my friends on goodreads. I also adore an arthurian legend reimagining, and this one is for sure my new favorite – so smartly done and so galaxy brain, truly. The grief depiction in this is going to mean a lot to so many, and it was also very empathetically and powerfully done, in my opinion. I really love Bree, and she really captured my heart in this book.♡ evie's amazing spotify playlist trigger + content warnings: loss of a loved one/parent, hospital settings, talk of car accidents, grief, anxiety, harry potter character mention, racism, a lot of microaggression, talk of police brutality, blood depictions, harm to get blood, death, gore, violence, vomiting, animal death (boar), talk of rape in the past, child abuse in the past, slavery, generational trauma, panic attacks, ptsd, torture, magical compulsion, child birthblog | instagram | youtube | kofi | spotify | amazon
3558461731	This YA fantasy has been marketed as a reimagining of the Arthurian legend and it is that, but it is so much more. But before we get to the more, let's talk about 1) the YA and 2) the Arthur. The YA was pitch perfect. A new girl sucked into the mysteries of a secret society dealing with parents, school, best friend issues, and caught between two love interests. (I'll never tire of a well-done love triangle, esp ones with mystical complications that aren't as clear cut as they seem on the surface.) What was revolutionary here, too, was that the protagonist was Black. It is so rare to see a Black girl at the center of a love triangle with two hot guys that I kept having to check my expectations, sure that one was faking and would betray her. No spoilers, but I was completely satisfied with how it played out in this opener of the series, and will be reading to see what happens in the next book. Next, the Arthur. A fresh take on the legend, bringing it into a present-day that was uniquely American but still retained Welsh roots and gave nods to retellings throughout literature. Just very smart. Now, the more, because what this novel was really about was grief, and how to not let it suck you down and close you off, how to move through it, how to embrace it but not dwell in it. The author talks extensively in the end notes about how writing this helped her deal with the loss of her mother, and successively, her father and stepfather. I believe it. The book resonated with meaning and it added depth to the narrative. One last note on the magic system. There is an Arthurian-inspired magic system, but there is another magic system, too, which I don't want to spoil, but that is wonderful. I literally made the *chef's kiss* when I saw where the story was going and how this other magic system would play its part. I did guess the ending, but that took away nothing from my enjoyment of the story. A perfect set up for the next book. I'm ready to read it now!
3769053394	“Don’t make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.”Sixteen-year-old Bree Matthews is grieving for the loss of her mother, when she enrolls in a college program for intelligent high schoolers. On her first night on campus Bree witnesses a magical assault, causing her to question whether her mother’s death was in truth an accident. A failed attempt to erase her memory of this night causes Bree’s own unique magic and memories that have previously been altered with to become uncovered. Bree will do whatever it takes to reveal the truth, even infiltrating those who are responsible for the erasing of her memory – the Legendborn. How far is Bree willing to go to uncover the truth about her mother’s mysterious death and is she willing to join the fight of a magical war? Legendborn is undoubtedly my favourite read of the year so far. Tracy Deonn certainly deserves recognition and acclaim for this refreshing perspective on urban fantasy. Tracy Deonn’s debut book has generated an enchanting, contemporary world that I lost myself in. The outstanding first book of the series was a breath of fresh air, with the originality and uniqueness of the plot and the world that came with it. Tracy Deonn did a formidable job of representing diversity throughout the book, incorporating and raising awareness of crucial issues of modern-day society throughout. Tracy Deonn accomplishes the complex and intricate world building centred around the past time tales of King Arthur. Grief, power and self-discovery, critical concepts of the plot, are portrayed realistically and admirably. I can wholeheartedly say that this book kept me anticipating what was to come and therefore kept me turning the pages. Do not get me started on the diverse range of characters in this book. I could write a whole essay on the faultless description and character development of those in this book, but I will allow you to discover the love for these characters yourself. I'll allow you the privilege of discovering Bree Matthews for yourself, because she is what I envision for a protagonist I want to fall in love with. I am also now a certified fan-girl for both Nick and Sel. Putting the main protagonists aside, the creation of the supporting characters makes you fall in love with their attributes as much as the main characters. Which is precisely what I require from a novel. It is difficult to comprehend that this is Tracy Deonn's debut novel and I cannot wait (even though I'll have to) for the second book in the series. I will reiterate once again that this is my favourite read of the year so far and implore you at whatever cost to read Legendborn.Overall rating: 5 stars⭐
3908994913	This was a buddy read with Gabriela. It was my first buddy read and I really enjoyed the experience!This book was awesome! I had high expectations going in and it ended up delivering 😁✅ THE REPRESENTATION was really well done. I think this book did a good job of showing the subtle (and not so subtle) influences of racism in everyday life for Bree. It's sad that Bree and other people in the US have to put up with these types of situations and it's great to have a book in the YA Fantasy genre finally touching on this topic✅ THERE WERE LOTS OF STRONG female characters as well, so I felt like the book had a feminist vibe without being too over the top and obvious about it❌ THERE WAS TOO MUCH backstory and the world was a little too complicated for the first book in a series. Gabriela and I were sending messages back and forth like 🥴😵🤔 trying to figure out what the hierarchy of the world was haha🆗 THE ROMANCE WAS okay but Nick just isn't my type lol. I'm personally hoping that Sel and Bree are endgame - I've been secretly rooting for them since their first interaction in the woods because I'm just a sucker for the edgy bad boy with a tortured past trope lol✅ THE TWISTS! THE PLOT! It was sooo good! There were a lot of reveals in the second half of the book that surprised me and I really enjoyed being a part of the rollercoaster ride of emotions!Overall, I'm really happy with this book and I can't wait to read the next one! Even though the world was a little confusing (which is mostly why I'm giving it 4 stars instead of 5), eventually it made sense by the end. I recommend this to anyone looking for a YA urban fantasy with strong female characters, minority representation, and a really fast paced plot
3075114631	I wanted to love this so much, but... I just didn't. This had all the makings of a book I thought I was going to love, but for whatever reason I just didn't.I think the topics that were explored in this story such as, grief, institutional racism, and slavery were well explored and brought a side to ya urban fantasy that I haven't seen before. My issues with the book had to do with the execution of the story and how certain tropes were used. Which sort of leads me to think maybe YA urban fantasy isn't for me anymore?The first maybe 30-40% of this book I felt like I didn't know what was happening. The whole legendborn system was very confusing, I couldn't keep straight who was a scion, who was a squire and what it all meant. This made it really hard for me to get into the book. By the time I started to feel like I understood what was going on I'd already checked out from the story and didn't really care anymore.I did like the secondary magic system that we were introduced to. I thought how it brought in Bree's family history, and America's history of slavery and white supremacy was really interesting. I also liked how it ultimately tied in to the rest of the story.I wasn't a fan of the characters. Bree was super stubborn and made some *questionable* decisions which lead to some funny one liners at times, but ultimately I just found her annoying which made it hard to read from her perspective. Her relationship with her best friend Alice was also a big disappointment to me. For being Bree's best friend I feel like she's the side character we see the least of. The story starts off with them in a huge fight that... made no sense to me. I get it, they're 16, communication is not the best at that age. But Alice gets mad at Bree for not "being the same" when Bree's mom died like... 3 months ago?? I felt like that Alice was actually wrong here was not acknowledged. Even after they made up I found it really odd how Bree kept hiding everything from her.As for the other characters, I just didn't care. I wasn't a huge fan of the romance, Nick felt pretty generic to me, but I didn't mind him. Not a fan of the love triangle thing that started happening towards the end/second half. Hate to love really just doesn't work for me when one of them is trying to kill the other.I did appreciate the exploration of grief in this book. Bree's mom's death was the driving force of the book, and I thought Bree's actions and thoughts around that were well done. I also appreciated how even though her dad wasn't physically present he wasn't absent.Overall this book was just not for me. I'd recommend it if you are big fan of urban fantasy and want to try something with a different take because like I mentioned it does bring a lot of new things to the table.
4904072079	"Warning" - I will be rambling a lot because of the after-effects of aether or in short, the after-effects of reading such a brilliant novel.“Legendborn” (for me) is a story of bloodline, it is a story of inheritances!It is “quintessential” of YA fantasy! Period.Tracy Deonn nailed it. What an incredulously outstanding debut novel! Can't stay immune to her Mesmer!I am doused in Aether, and this experience can't be forgotten for long. I am mesmerized 😊Tracy has all the right ingredients and recipe for making a concoction of sheer magic and dreams.A taut tale! A lyrical tale-telling, indisputable for me. The insurmountable task of including all the superfluous information in a taut package is indeed commendable, without compromising the pace.“Legendborn” totally ensnared me with it’s magic. I am still in trance! I had goosebumps throughout the read, Tracy didn't allow a moment for them to settle :DI was literally nibbling my lips intermittently during the read. Indubitably, the best so far and has found place in my top ten of my YA fantasy list. Will re-read soon. For a capricious person like me, it kept me hooked throughout.The corporeal Legendborn fighting out all the incorporeal Shadowborn.With Tracy's compelling, seamless and effortless writing style, I felt that I wasn't reading but living every moment. Nothing was garbled, but all terse and clear, to the point.A quick-paced plot without sacrificing the much-needed world and character building, neither plot nor characters felt contrived at any point.It has a dauntless modern-day-twist to the existing Arthurian legend. I applaud how this book handled racism and inequality issues including LGBTQ+Our hell-of-a-strong-minded southern black resolute Bree, the protagonist, doesn’t back out anytime. She is firm as a rock, immovable.For me, this novel is diversity personified. Bree is Black. Her best friend is Asian. We meet several other Black mages, and there's a focus on Black history and Black experiences The plot starts with the heartfelt portrayal of the irrevocable colossal grief of losing a mother at an early age(I could totally relate!!).“But my mother isn’t lost. She’s gone”“I’m a daughter whose mother was taken from her. Acceptance, I decide, is for people whose parents just died with no reason. True accidents or illness. Acceptance is not possible for murder.”The “before-Bree” and “after-Bree” ethereal character perusals were endearing, heart-rendering. After-Bree – the unwanted souvenir that mother’s death gave her. After-Bree is always in a state of explosion. She lives and breathes inside her chest, carrying her is a full-time job.Bree has constructed impenetrable walls around her post losing her mom.When the plot started, I conjectured novel would primarily dwell on the emotional battles of Bree throughout, but hang on, the way it picked up was ferocious and neat. Resolute Bree evolved and progressed as a human, showing a control on her emotions, be it for her lost-mother or new-found love Nick was commendable.The distance between Bree and her father post mother's demise is delicately woven. Her father’s grief creates holes in the impenetrable walls she has constructed around her, his grief makes her own emotions break. So, she tried to stay away as much as possible. Bree's and Alice's friendship could have been given more of a center stage, but may be the authoress never wanted to make a single moment dreary and drab. Upon discovering the secret society of the Legendborns, and getting acquainted about the shadowborns, onceborns, page, Mesmer, aether, merlin, kingsmage, scions, squire, Bree sets onto the earnest mission to discover the true cause of her mother's death.The burgeoning romance between Nick and Bree, her irrefutable longing for Nick, Sel's constant teasing, Bree deriding Sel for being oblivious to her wounds, but Nick showing major concern, the imperious yet not arrogant William helping Bree with all the Order information….ufff…so much and deftly accommodated in a debut novel.Bree intermittently remembering Alice while in the Order was emblematic of true friendship. Romance/Love triangle between Bree, Nick and Sel was cute and organic, not contrived upon."Nick’s eyes are the waiting color of the overcast skies"“Love is a powerful thing, more powerful than blood, although both run through us like a river”“How does this boy navigate my emotions like a seasoned sailor, finding the clear skies and bringing them closer, when all I seem able to do so hold fast to the storm?” Few of the many likeable points for me-Sel teasing, then like a love-sick puppy helping Bree to finally discover the cause of her mothers death,William and his healing abilities with aether, visiting infirmary.I wish if Alice had a little more extended role, but even whatever she had, was beautifully crafted.Loved Patricia's part of Rootcrafter and Wildcrafter, and calling upon her mom. Had set my heart racing.I admire the fact, Tracy didn't make it overtly boring by dragging the pace, which in all probability was possible, considering the superfluous information involved.The evolution of Bree as a daughter, as a corporeal Legendborn throughout the novel is commendable.On a lighter note- washing of her tousled hair dunking under the faucet was relatable :DThe twist in the tale was the ending, leaving it to the readers to explore 😊 One of my fav quotes from the narrative:- “Some truths only tragedy can teach. The first one I learned is that when people acknowledge your pain, they want your pain to acknowledge them back. They need to witness it in real time, or else you’re not doing your part”
6386813036	First 5 star of the year!!! I took my time reading this because 1. I felt like I was learning a different language and 2. Because I wanted to soak this up as best I could and I made a GREAT decision. Bree, I LUH YOU GIRL🖤
3422517494	Many thanks to Netgalley and Simon & Schuster Canada for sharing this ARC in exchange for an honest review. All quotes in this review are subject to change upon release date. Hold up.Did it seriously just end like that ?!?!?😤It seems that I'm on a streak of cliffhangers and it's not fun.😢But wow, Legendborn was an amazing Arthurian retelling. There's no doubt that I absolutely love the tv show, Merlin , and seeing that this book was based off of the legend......well, I just HAD to read it.😏I loved the Black representation that was shown here and I think this might be my first book with a Black MC. I know, I know, shame on me.🤦‍♀️ But at least I was lucky enough to have Legendborn being my first book with one and it was soooo good😍We have our MC, 16-year old Bree Matthews, who has just recently dealt with the passing of her mother. To escape her hometown and it's memories of her mother, Bree and her best friend, Alice, go off to an early college program for bright high schoolers at the University of North Carolina located in Chapel Hill. The plan seems perfect—that is, until Bree discovers something abnormal her first day there. More specifically, she witnesses demons attacking and a boy in her school, Selwyn Kane, use.......✨Magic✨From there, she learns that that particular magic is called aether and there's a whole other race of people called Legendborns who protect humanity by eliminating the Shadowborn (basically demons) and are descendants of King Arthur & his knights. And then of course, there's the Knights of the Round Table⚔️Bree was a really cool character. I loved how she always stood up to the bullies she had to deal with and the insults that were directed at her. Bree always said whatever came to mind haha something I can't imagine doing xD. She was such a funny character, too and her her friendship was Alice was really too although she didn't appear as much as I thought she would.🤔Still, their conversations were pretty funny.😂 "Nick says I've got to keep it secret, keep it safe.""Did you just Lord of the Rings me?""Nope." I grin. "I just Fellowship of the Ringed you." Then there's Nick, the handsome and perfect student, that is lives nearby on campus.Hmmmm. It's not that there's anything wrong with him, but I just don't really like him.🤷‍♀️ Instead, I have my eyes on a certain dark haired and golden eyed boy.😏 Sel was such an intriguing character and I really want to know more about him in the next book. (Hehe I've always had a thing for those tall, dark, and broody characters xD) Ooo and another thing I loved was how close to reality this book was. Legendborn have to worry about leading their normal lives all while making sure they do their job and keeping everything in the Order a secret from their loved ones. If they dare reveal any secrets......well, I'll let you find out for yourselves once you read this.😉Also, Bree had to deal with racist comments and people, but still kept her head held high and in defiance to those who dared trying to insult her. I love that girl ~ such an inspiration to others.💕 Legendborn was so captivating, I didn't even realize I was on the last page until I reached a blank.😢 The only reason it lost a star was because there was the insta-love and it felt pretty slow in the beginning, but eventually I got really into it.Ahhh I can't wait for the next book! If this isn't on your TBR already, then I must tell you to do it NOW. You won't regret it. (At least, I'm mostly sure you won't xD)I can't wait too see what Tracy Deonn writes next.(Although I do feel a love triangle brewing up in the next book, but maybe I'm wrong (view spoiler)[If there is, I'm definitely on Team Sel😍 (hide spoiler)]) "Where do we begin?""At the beginning." | Blog | ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
6034075302	4.25 - cannot WAIT to read the rest of the series!!
3877900960	Thank you Mango for having me, to buddy read this with you! I've always wanted to read Legendborn but in this world where there are too many books to read, with too little time, I don't know when will I ever. And indeed this is one of my wisest decision.~~~~~3.75/5Legendborn is filled with mystery and an intriguingly rich magic system based on King Arthur's legend, offering the dark allure of City of Bones with a modern-day twist on a classic legend and a lot of Southern Black Girl Magic. And in no way am I trying to undermine others, but I have read a few King Arthur retelling and I fairly enjoyed them, but now that I finished this one, I feel like this book has set its own standard and raised the bar. The characters from the main to the side ones are all well accentuated, chef kiss. The moment you read the book, you'll love our main female lead immediately. Bree Matthews is the type of protagonist I'd like to see more of. She is complex and imperfect, not defined by any single element of herself. Is a powerful person, but as the book progresses, she discovers new abilities and sides of herself. She has both confidence and uncertainties, as well as terrible reactions and wonderfully clever moments, among other things; which made her more realistic and relatable. Then, we have Nick. In another world, people, we would all love and want a Nick! And on the first half of the book, you will find yourself liking him (add that Sel is such a pain in the ass) but as you go, I'll have to say, Nick's character is a bit bland. I often see him as a damsel in distress in the book (not that he can't be and at other times, I would want some savings and dig the damsel in distress trope) but with Sel in the picture, I'm sorry Nick. I gotta pick a team.And of course, we have our Selwyn. I have to say, during the first part of the book, you'll just gonna have to chant "WTH Sel?" like a mantra, because... wth Sel?. Like, quit it. He's not a bully but he's not that friendly next-door boy either. But as we go, AHA! Guess who raised the #TeamSel flag? Yup, that's me. His characters have much more colours and are multifaceted compared to Nick. And I enjoyed reading his tsundereness the most. Sel is cute and I love the surprise of these different impressions I had towards him from the start of the book to the end of it. As for the romance department offered in this book, honestly? I don't usually do love triangles but this one is quite interesting because I get to pick a team without any contemplation. Spoiler alert: It's not the main male lead. I find Nick and Bree's first kiss to be rushed. I like how the relationship is developing but their kiss felt too soon and I could not enjoy and feel the chemistry between the two. If it happens a bit later, where their relationship progresses further, it might change my thought towards the couple.(view spoiler)[And SelNick? I've thought about it ok. I have had my assumption. But it's the ship I never knew I needed until Sel's confession. In another world, SelNick is all I need but Nick is such a boring ass, who only got his eyes twitches in Sel's presence. No room to even root for the couple. So, that's only left us with, Breel (yes Sel and Bree's ship is Breel) (hide spoiler)].Sel and Bree felt more connected than Brick ever was (yes Bree and Nick's ship is Brick as Mango claimed). The moments of them together were way enjoyable and interactive than Brick ever be. Not to say that revelation about their mothers? Wanting more Breel is only right. I rest my case. However, there are few things that do not seem to not work out for me. ☒ The world-building is written okay. The magic system is cool but too complex to comprehend. You can see the author info-dumping and there was a lot to take in. This might cause readers to be confused; I can hardly keep up, especially if you didn't focus (and it happened to me one time because the book was too long and I get a bit bored and sidetracked). If the author managed to organize more in introducing them would be great.☒ If you're looking for a fast-paced book, this one is not for you. Although the author still manages to make the plot intriguing for readers to move forward, I still find some parts sluggish. I get why some chapters and scenes are necessary to the plot and character's development but some parts seem irrelevant, looking merely like a filler. If the author could make it precise and concise, that would be cute. Secondly, I love how the setting revolves around school, giving it dark academia vibes. However, after Bree joined the Legendborn, the author focused and wrote more on Bree's involvement with the society, consequently forgetting the part where Bree was also a student. Which also made Alice's presence almost inexistent unless when she's needed. They're roommates and supposed to be best friends here. Bree had exams, she didn't study and then what? Did she ace it? Can she do it? These minor details about Bree's life as a student are as important to the story. I wanted to see more of it but was a bit disappointed.Lastly, looking at the concept of the book, I guess it's expected to have few characters died but (view spoiler)[killing Whitty was a petty move (lol, I just love him, okay?). Some of the kids at Legendborn can be a pain in the ass, like Tor but Whitty and Greer have been my fav people. And you're telling me one of them is dead? I don't wanna think if it was Greer, I can't promise the ratings will even be a solid four. Very anti-climatic if so. Because why Whitty when we have uglies like Vaughn? (hide spoiler)] [sobs at the corner]All in all, the book is still good and I enjoyed them. Hoping the next book to be better! Again, thank you Mango for screaming and ranting buddy-read this with me. Don't forget to check her review as well!
3408699297	Happy publication day to the wonderful Legendborn!! ❤️This book was phenomenal!Legendborn was everything I never knew I needed. My first time delving into Arthurian mythology. My first time experiencing magical secret societies. All things I’m eager to see more of in the future. This paired with the intricately planned plot made for a really wonderful story! ~★~ What is this book about? ~★~ After the death of her mother, sixteen year old Bree is hoping to get as far from home as possible. So, when she gets accepted to an early college program for bright high school students, Bree thinks she’s discovered the perfect out. Things take a turn for the worst during her first night on campus, when Bree witnesses a demon attack that no other students can see.When Sal--a teenage mage--attempts to wipe Bree’s memory of everything she saw, it backfires, awakening startling powers in her. Powers that show her there is more to her mothers death than she originally thought.Upon discovering a secret society within the college, Bree is convinced she’s found the people who can help her uncover what really happened to her mother. The group consists of “Legendborn”, descendants of King Arthur and his nights. Those with powers to expel demons in effort to prevent an oncoming war.When Bree swears oath to the Legendborn hoping to learn the truth behind her mother’s death, she unknowingly binds herself to a lifetime of trouble. ~★~ Plot ~★~ Legendborn had me hooked from the very start. The pacing moved steadily and quickly, ensuring that I never grew bored. Deonn’s prose is thoroughly planned and executed, as is evident in the way her story unravels on page. The magic system is explained with crystal clear clarity; I was in awe of the small intricacies. Each chapter contains plenty of action and detailed revelations, leaving me breathless and painfully invested in what was to come. The plot twists were fantastic, I’m so eager for the continuation of this series! ~★~ Characters ~★~ Legendborn contains a cast made up of several diverse characters, which is always something wonderful to see represented in fiction! Our protagonist Bree is black, her best friend is asian and lesbian, while other side characters are gay, bisexual, nonbinary and people of colour! Tracy Deonn perfectly includes commentary on racism, slavery and colonization in Bree’s narrative, which is great to see brought up in a fantasy novel. These important topics played a really significant role in the outcome of this story, and ended up giving me added perspective on what horrible treatment black people received not only in the past, but in the present.Bree’s character was a really strong lead; her voice became steadily more powerful as the novel progressed. Deonn does a great job developing her side characters as well, and when considering the large number of them, it’s an impressive feat.~★~This was a spectacular debut, one I’m so eager for people to read!Thank you to Simon & Schuster and NetGalley for the E-arc!
3567521200	Holy fuck this was absolutely amazing! I am in love with everything about this story and I CANNOT WAIT until the next one.
4936671871	I’m on BookTube! =)“Love is a powerful thing, more powerful than blood, although both run through us like a river.”It’s been a while I finished “Legendborn” but this book was so good that it deserves a proper review. Even if it comes a couple of months too late. Better late than never, right?! First of all, I’ve to say that this book totally surprised me and blew me away in the best way possible! When I went into this story, I expected an Arthurian retelling and even though this is exactly what I got, I got so much more as well! I didn’t expect to get as invested in this as I was but wow, Tracy Deonn has a way to go for a retelling and to touch on so many other important topics while she’s still staying true to the overall storyline. This book packed quite a punch and I mean this is a very good way.There were so many topics and issues the author addressed and I just loved this about “Legendborn”. We don’t just have an entire parallel world in which demons, mages and knights of the round table exist. No, we also have an amazing grief rep, a couple of LGBTQIA+ reps and an author that doesn’t shy away from addressing the life of a black girl in modern times as well as the lives of her ancestors that were enslaved to rich people in the South. And if you think that’s quite a lot to pack into a book, you have no idea because white privilege as well as traumas are explored too and everything fits together perfectly and runs along with the story so smoothly you’re always right there with the characters. It never feels like the reader is educated, the topics are just part of the story and so well integrated that everything feels natural and never out of place. I honestly cannot emphasize it enough, this book was amazing in so many ways and the fact the author gave the entire Arthurian legend such a modern and interesting twist made this story even more enjoyable. I loved this book and I really liked the way all those difficult topics were broached and explored. And yes, I was a huge fan of the magic and fantasy aspect as well. It was extremely well thought out and detailed. Not gonna lie, the hierarchy system of the knights, mages, pages, squires, chapters and all the different families and their ancestors had me pretty confused at first. Thankfully the reader learns everything alongside Bree so that definitely helped to understand the system and to get a better hang of it. I think I could go on and on about the book in general, but what I really want to talk about are the characters and the important topics and since I can’t do this without any spoilers I’ll just head into my character’s section now! The characters: Welcome to the round table! If you want to become a true knight you can sit down and read all the spoilers. ;-) If you don’t want to be spoiled and aren’t in search of knighthood I suggest you better leave this table, though. Quickly! For we only accept knights willing to learn the truth! ;-P Bree:“Two faults. My race and my gender. But they are not faults. They are strength. And I am more than this man can comprehend.”Bree was such a great MC and I adored her character arc so much! At the beginning of the book the death of her mother is still influencing her every decision and even causes her to get involved with the Knights of the Round Table. Bree is searching for answers and she’s determined to get them no matter what it takes. So ultimately, her search for answers about her mother’s death gets her involved with Nick and Sel, their secret order and the hidden world that lives right alongside ours. To be completely honest I didn’t always agree with every decision Bree made, but I always understood where she was coming from. Grief and questions can be a strong motivation to find some answers and Bree had plenty of both. So it was no surprise she was so adamant about finding out the truth, even if it hurt the people she loved and cared about. What I really liked about her was that she always stayed true to herself, though. There were many obstacles in her way but she never caved and even when she found out about Rootcraft and all the secrets her mother took to her grave, her love for her never faltered. Bree’s character arc was honestly so good! She started out as this confused, vulnerable and grieving teen but became so strong by the end of the book. Most of the time she had no idea what she was getting herself into but that didn’t stop her from tackling things head-on and this was great. I adored her determination and strong will and I can’t wait to see what she’s going to do in book two! I mean wow! There are so many possibilities how things can turn out and I’m so ready to see her grow into her new role! =)”What are you?!” Rhaz croaks.Three voices answer him in a booming chorus. “I am a Medium, born from the earth. I am Bloodcrafted, born from resilience. I am Arthur, Awakened!”Nick:”Leaning against the wall just beside the exit is a tall white boy with tousled straw-blond hair and the bluest eyes I’ve ever seen. He looks like he belongs on the cover of the university brochure: impossibly bright and cheery, wearing plain jeans and a Carolina blue zipper hoodie. When he laughs, the sound is warm and genuine. “Now, that’s what you call a murderous expression!”“Want to help me with the follow-through?” I snap.Nick. Boy, he was the epitome of a “Golden Boy”. Not just by his looks but also by his good nature and humour. I think there’s no way you can dislike him?! Like he’s just so nice and sweet, protective and caring and he liked Bree and never even considered listening to his vile father. I think there’s something inherently pure and good about his soul and even I thought that he would turn out to be Arthur’s reincarnation. The ending had me reeling so hard and I honestly didn’t expect him not to be Arthur. It kinda makes sense he would turn out to be Lancelot, though? I just hope that Nick will be found in book two and that he’ll get back to Bree and his friends. That man deserves only happiness. Also I hate his father so much! Urgh! How can a boy like Nick have such a horrible father?! He clearly must have inherited all his good character traits from his mum.Selwyn:A blue-white dagger hits him in the throat.His fingers fly to the handle of the blade. He makes a gargling sound and pitches face –forward into the water. With a piercing screech, a huge eagle owl dives into the cave from a tunnel. Quick and silent, it melts into the shape of a man as it drops to the ground. A shape I recognize immediately: Selwyn Kane, Merlin and Kingsmage of the Southern Chapter.”Oh my gosh!! How do I even put into words how much I love Selwyn Kane?!! That broody, dark mage is my kryptonite. I just love his sarcasm and as we all know I’ve a weakness for broken boys like him. As much as I like Nick, Sel will always have my heart. I just can’t with him! He’s seriously such a great character! I loved all the bits and pieces we got of him and his skills and powers are quite something! Still, despite being so powerful he’s a tortured soul under the thumb of his superiors and it cost him. Well actually it still does. Selwyn finding out about his mom broke my heart and the way he’s treated by the leaders of the Legendborn is horrible. In some way Selwyn is a slave as well and he’s been exploited ever since he was a child. What’s even worse is that he doesn’t really see it like that because he’s used to it and was brainwashed into believing it’s his duty to serve the Order. Tracy Deonn knows exactly what she did here because even though Selwyn is a Merlin and has a lot of strength he’s bound to the Legendborn by traditions and generations of obedience. I’m pretty sure he didn’t even get close to his full potential because he was always kept down and I honestly hope that the fact Bree is his “King” now will change things for the better for him. Selwyn could be so magnificent and I want to see it!!! <3”Tonight shouldn’t have happened, Sar,” he mutters. His dark brows draw together as if he’s seeing it happen all over again. “Nothing like that ... has ever happened before. When the Regents find out...”Sarah’s tone turns soothing. “It wasn’t your fault.”“That’s not what they’ll say,” Sel whispers, his hoarse voice almost lost to the wind. His eyes land on me and narrow accusingly.The grief rep:”I listen to these people I don’t know use the past tense about my mother, the person who brought me into this world and created my present. They are past-tensing my heart – my whole beating, bleeding, torn heart – right in front of me.It’s a violation.”Can I say how amazing the grief rep was in this?! It hit me like a brick because I didn’t expect to even find a grief representation in this book but boy, was it done well! And this comes from a grief counsellor! I loved how Tracy Deonn wrote about grief and judging by the way she wrote about it, I think she might have some first-hand experience with the topic herself. It’s not easy to understand how hard grief can impact a person’s life and I always say that I’m glad for every person who doesn’t get it. Because that means they never made this experience and never had to go through a heavy loss like the one Bree had to experience. As I already said grief can be a strong emotion and in “Legendborn” it’s Bree’s main motivation to find some answers. It’s what drives her but as much as it fuels her, it also hurts her and the author did an amazing job of showing this. Grief is a constant companion and the only thing we can do is to learn how to deal with it so that it loses it’s sharp sting over time. I’m very curious how Tracy is going to continue this in the second book and I’m definitely looking forward to find out. "Our grief is for the same person, but our grief is not the same. It's like those bar magnets in physics class; you can push the matching poles together, but they don't want to touch. I can't touch my dad's grief. Don't really want to."The LGBTQIA+ reps:"Why are you being so nice to me?"They shrug. "If the world is simple, certain people will never be inconvenienced, never need to adapt. I disrupt those people, and you do too."The LGBTQIA+ reps were something I totally didn’t expect as well. I mean we have Greer who uses they/them pronouns and is non-binary! Which is so very rare in fantasy books! Honestly, I want more non-binary characters in fantasy themed books, but this isn’t all! Nope, we have an entire cast of side-characters that are lesbian, gay or bisexual. Also Selwyn Freaking Kane!!! He basically admitted that he had a crush on Nick when he was younger! So I think Sel is either bi or maybe even pan?! I don’ t know. So far we only know the hard facts, namely that Tor was a fling and that Nick was a former crush. So everything is possible. Maybe we’ll find out more in book two?! I genuinely hope the LGBTQIA+ reps will continue to thrive in the sequel. ;-)On the topics of racism/white privilege & slavery:”I don’t know if there’s a single Black person in this country who can say with 100 percent confidence that they feel safe with the police. Not after the past few years. Probably not ever. Maybe there are some, somewhere, but I sure as hell don’t know ‘em.”There’s so much to unpack here and I really liked how the author tackled all those topics and embedded them in the overall storyline. No matter if it was by Bree’s friends touching her hair unasked or during the scene with Virginia of the Order of the Roses who mistook Bree as a servant, the racism and white privilege were visible and tangible throughout the entire book. I swear Davis made me so angry with his stupid talk of Moriaen not being worthy. If you ask me the only one who wasn’t worthy was Davis himself but unfortunately white men with power and money always seem to be the ones in control. Also Bree finding out about her roots and why she has magic and can do Rootcraft was quite a powerful scene. It was amazing how the author touched on the subject of slavery and included history in this modern tale. The stories of Bree’s ancestors made me so angry, what they had to go through, what they survived… the reason Bree turned out to be the true incarnation of Arthur. Just… damn. All I want for Bree and her ancestors – all those brave women – is justice and I hope they’ll get it in “Bloodmarked”! Davis and his stupid ideas have to fall. Period. And finally yet importantly, that scene with the wall was so powerful and made me extremely sad at the same time. The things all those men like Davis took from Bree and her family just because they were white and privileged. The things men like him still take… it has to end. I’m sure Bree will bring that change and I can’t wait to see it. ”Suddenly, it’s hard to stand here and take in the magnificence of the Wall and not feel an undeniable sense of ignorance and inadequacy. Then, a rush of frustration because someone probably wanted to record it all, but who could have written down my family’s history as far back as this? Who would have been able to, been taught to, been allowed to? Where is our Wall? A Wall that doesn’t make me feel lost, but found. A wall that towers over anyone who lays eyes on it.”The relationships & ships:Bree & Nick:I sketch a diagram on my notebook. "Visuals help."Nick examines my drawing, and his eyes flicker up to mine. "Visuals do help. A lot, actually." I'm unprepared for his small, appreciative smile. Even at a low wattage, it is warmth and sunlight and summer and entirely distracting and it makes me squirm in my seat.Okay, I admit it: They are extremely cute. *lol* I kinda ship them but at the same time I don’t?! I dunno, I have such conflicting feelings about their relationship because I know they love each other in their own way but I’m also not a 100% on board of it?! Maybe it’s just the fact I also ship Bree with Sel?! I kinda love how those two found each other and didn’t care about what others would say. I mean considering Nick’s father he should have been an ass but he wasn’t and is actually such a nice and decent guy?! Which kinda makes me ship him and Bree. But I also think that Nick might be too nice?! Uff, I really dunno! *lol* I. AM. CONFUSION!!! (Let’s hope book two will put things into perspective. *fingers crossed*)”He’s still laughing, but he traps my fingers between his and, before I can say a word, drops a soft kiss on my knuckles. That kiss steals my breath. I don’t think he even notices.“First of all, are you saying you’re not gunning to be my Squire? Insulted. And second – nope, sorry, this hand is mine now – I hate that other Pages are targeting you because of me. And third, I don’t know what your feminine wiles are, but I’d be willing to asses them. To see if they could, indeed, seduce me enough to make me bond myself to you forever.”Bree & Selwyn:We stand in silence for a long moment, considering how much our worlds have already changed, and how much change is still to come. I feel Sel’s attention on my cheeks – and wonder when the sparks in his eyes had become a comforting heat. “What?” I murmur, looking up at him.“You are my king now, cariad.” His low voice carries the intimacy of a caress, and his eyes are a melted gold. I turn away, overwhelmed at the meaning in both.Maybe I’m not fully on board of the Bree/Nick ship because there’s this little possibility of a Bree/Sel ship sailing?! *lol* And if you know anything about me by now you know that I’d always chose a tortured bad boy character like Selwyn over a nice and sweet boy like Nick. I just can’t help it. It’s in my DNA! Why choose a perfectly sweet guy when you can have a sarcastic, tortured, sexy and complex soul?! XD Also it would be enemies-to-lovers with Bree and Sel and I love that trope. With Nick things are just too smooth, I like some friction in my relationships. Haha! Also, Bree and Sel literally have sparks flying when they look at each other and she can always feel HIS GAZE on her!!! I love the tension! So yup, I’d be totally on board of that ship. Doesn’t help that Sel called Bree “cariad”. I am a sucker for endearments. I use them myself for the people I love so umm. Still, there’s Nick and he’s sweet and would be worthy of Bree’s love too. Well, and Sel once had a crush on Nick so quite honestly I would be down for a polyamorous relationship between those three as well. *lol* Whatever Tracy Deonn decides to do, I’m more than just ready to find out! ;-) ”For a moment, the three of us stare at one another in wordless comprehension. I look between the two of them – a fallen angel and a king, the dark and the light, and feel a deep, churning thrill at what I’ve done. What we’ve done. This is how it will be now. Oaths between us. Bound to each other. Forever.”Conclusion:“Legendborn” surprised me in the best way possible! I had absolutely no idea what would await me when I picked up the book but Tracy Deonn swept me off my feet and I’ve become a huge fan! Many people recommended this story to me and I’m glad I went into it mostly blind, because this book was amazing! I enjoyed that so many different topics were addressed and I loved the huge and diverse cast! Magic, LGBTQIA+ reps, a complex world, racism, slavery, grief, love – this book has it all. Moreover, all those topics are well balanced and explored in a sensitive manner. If you haven’t read “Legendborn” yet, what are you waiting for?! _______________________I think I know why so many people recommended this to me, because this was amazing!This world, the grief rep, the Arthurian retelling spin, the many amazing LGBTQIA+ characters! I loved it all! And I loved Selwyn Kane!!! So damn much! <3 I’m definitely #TeamSel and can’t wait to read book 2. Full RTC soon!_______________________This book has been recommended to me so often, you have no idea! XDIt landed on my TBR last year and I recently found it in my library and decided to borrow it. As far as I could gather from the blurb and a couple of reviews this is some sort of Arthurian retelling and I’m honestly so intrigued by this! Also am I the only one who gets dark academia vibes from “Legendborn”? I mean a secret society at the UNC campus? It really sounds like dark academia and I’m so here for it. ;-) I’m ready, are you too?! ;-PFind me on:My BlogInstagram
3633514636	“Don't make your life about the loss. Make it about the love.” This book was absolutely fantastic! Beautiful characters, and awesome plot, I really enjoyed it!Before I get to the review, I would like to thank Aly for Buddy-Reading this with me. I really enjoyed screaming and ranting talking about it with you! Click here for her review! Characters: I loved the characters! I mean I didn't love all of them, I hated some of them completely. But that shows how well the author is developing their personalities. :)Bree: Deonn did a great job developing Bree! I found that I could actually connect to her and she had a lot of human qualities, which I loved about her. She wasn't perfect, but you could see her growth throughout the book. Bree's mother's death had affected her greatly, and even though she acted all sassy and cool, you could really tell inside she was broken and grieving. Deonn put two different personalities and smushed them into one character. That sounds kind of contradicting, but it made Bree so life-like it was amazing. Bree's growth throughout the book was awesome as well! Like I mentioned before, at first Bree was a sassy, moody, and grieving teenager. But throughout the book, even though she went on a physical journey, she also went through an incredible mental journey as well. She had her ups, and downs. But she overcame them, and grew into a bold, brave, incredible woman, willing to set things right in the world. I really loved that Deonn made her African-American, and how she confronted racism through Bree in her book. Bree went on this incredible journey despite everyone looking down on her because of her race and gender. I really loved how she faced that, it is spectacular seeing characters thrash obstacles like these. :)Nick: Nick was honestly a little bit bland. I think Deonn could have done better with him. I really liked how protective he was of Bree and it was interesting seeing why he didn't want to be "Awakened." But overall, I did not really see an iconic personality in him, and there wasn't a lot of character growth in him. He did grow to become a bit more leader-like, but I think his personality and character growth could have been developed better.Sel: I despised Sel at first. I hated him with all my heart and felt like punching him every time he spoke. But it wasn't because the author didn't write him well, it's because she wrote him too well. Sel is the Kingsmage, his job is to protect the Scion of King Arthur ((view spoiler)[Nick (hide spoiler)]). But he is haughty, paranoid, and thinks of him above everyone else. I really disliked his personality at first. But as the story progressed, Deonn gave us a glimpse of his history. Turns out that (view spoiler)[he is a Shadowborn, who was forced to live with Nick early. He was temporarily in love with Nick, and lost his mother early on. (hide spoiler)] This made me realize that maybe Sel isn't all bad. He's just doing his job, and his haughty, arrogant self might just be a cover for his real Sel-f (see what I did there XD). I liked the fact that he grew more trusting throughout the novel and he and Bree were able to connect. I am excited to see more of Sel in the next book!There are actually many characters which I really enjoyed throughout the book, but they were more of side characters. These are characters such as:Alice- Bree's best friendWillaim- Legendborn doctorPatricia- Bree's counselor and aquaintance of Bree's motherBree's grandma- Self-explanatory, wow, she's sassy, I like her XD. Plot: The plot was amazing! After the first 150 pages, that is. I was honestly slogging through the book at the first 150 pages. Like normally I would devour a book, but at first I had to drag myself through it. So the book kind of had a rough start for me. It definitely picked up after page 150, and soon I was trapped in the story. I will be explaining the plot, but it will contain minor spoilers. I will basically be summarizing the whole story so read at your own risk. Major spoilers will be tagged. I am begging you, DO NOT CLICK on the spoilers if you have not read the book. They are REALLY BIG.Bree is sent to a college-prep boarding school with her best friend Alice. They go to a party, and Bree gets separated from her friend and sees some demons in the sky and people killing them. She thinks she is hallucinating, but one of the people who killed the creature, notices that she caught them killing it. So they "mesmer" her to forget everything she saw. However, she keeps coming across these creatures and never completely forgets it. (view spoiler)[It is also revealed that Bree has the power to resist mesmeration. (hide spoiler)] Later, she gets a vision of her mother, and realizes that maybe these demons and her mother's death are connected. She then discovers that one of her classmates assigned to look after her, Nick, used to be part of the order to hunt down those demons. But, he quit for unknown reasons. After that, she decides to join the Legendborn society, disguising herself as a page, with Nick as her Squire. She wants to find out more about her mother. Sel becomes really suspicious of Bree and suspects that she's working with the enemy. So Bree has to be really careful not to reveal why she is here. She continues to work as Nick's page, when it is later discovered that Nick is (view spoiler)[the supposed Scion of Arthur, waiting to be Awakened. (hide spoiler)] He also turns out to be the son of Lord Davis, the head of the organization.As the story progresses, Bree is introduced to Patricia, who was an acquaintance of her mother. They together have sessions where they talk about her mother and how she could have possibly died. It is later discovered that (view spoiler)[Bree's mother had the power of root, and it has run in the family for generations, and Bree might possibly have root. (hide spoiler)]Later, the author shows that Sel is more complicated than a haughty, arrogant guy. Bree finds out that he is a (view spoiler)[Shadowborn. (hide spoiler)] He is struggling with many things in more ways that one, and Bree finds that she can relate to him. Even though they don't like each other, they grow closer. They break into Nick's old home, and goes into his father's studies. They find many files, and soon find one on Bree's mother. (view spoiler)[She was killed because she saw many things that she should not have seen. Such as demons being killed. She was also supposedly discovered that she has the power of root. (hide spoiler)]Finally, Bree decides to give up. What's the point of continuing to be a Page? She has found the reasons to her mom's death. She goes to the awarding ceremonies, where the Legendborn will be choosing their squires. Bree does not expect to get picked, because she kind of slacked off on her training after finding her mother's truth. (view spoiler)[But, Nick chooses Bree as her Squire. (hide spoiler)] Bree is shocked, but kind of happy and relieved at the same time.The ending contains A LOT of spoilers, so I'm just going to type the rest in a spoiler tag. Don't want to ruin the book.(view spoiler)[But, later it is revealed that Lord Davis himself, Nick's father, did not want Bree to get chosen. He has been allowing more demons to pass through the gate. So he blackmails her to quit. If she did not quit, he would mesmer her friend Alice. Bree gives in, not wanting any harm to come to her friend. She then realizes that Nick was taken by his father, and goes to warn him about his father. There, a huge battle progresses. She fights along-side her fellow Squires and they have a great battle. But everything changes, when Bree is Awakened. Bree is the Scion of Arthur, not Nick. Turns out she has a smidgen of inheritance from King Arthur himself. Bree suddenly becomes stronger and emerges from battle victorious, and injured. However, Nick is still missing. Bree, along with Sel and her friends must find him and rescue him from the clutches of his father... (hide spoiler)]Wow. That was a lot. I definitely did not summarize everything, but that's the basic gist. I tried to keep major spoilers in tags, so if you read it, I hope you were not completely spoiled.If you didn't read my super-long summary, I have three words to say:Read. The. Book.This book has SO many plot twists, I still can't believe it. I'm still trying to wrap my head around it lol. If you love windy plots which are unpredictable, you will FOR SURE love this. Writing: The writing was alright, but not my favorite. The characters and the plot definitely made up for it, but the writing wasn't the best. I was originally really confused by the magic system, and I think the introduction of this magic world was kind of rushed, and not explained well. I had to read the pages several times to actually understand the system completely. Otherwise, I really enjoyed the dialogue, and the personality Deonn gave the characters through speech!So I took off one star because I did not really enjoy the first 150 pages, and the rushed and confusing explanation of the magic system.To conclude, I really enjoyed this book, it is completely worth the hype. I can completely see why people loved this so much. I am SO looking forward the the next book! Aaaaah when's the release date??Again, thank you so much Aly for reading this with me! Check out her review. :)------------------------------------------------This book is definitely worth the hype. That ending...my God I NEED the next book. Review to come.
3400673782	4.5 This is it, guys. What an astonishing debut. The further I went into this book, the more captivated I became in the world of Legendborn. This book hits that niche spot after a long thread of swing-and-misses and is possibly my one of my favourite books released in 2020. (Okay, I’ve probably only read like two books released in 2020, but in general, I’m telling you this is top-tier stuff.)Bree is a young girl whose mother passed away in a tragic accident that may not just be an accident. After enrolling in the University of North Caroline, she becomes embroiled in a world full of secrets and magic war threatening to rise… To sum up briefly as to why I liked this book so much was how cohesive it was. I’m a characters type of person, but I am also an intricate plots type of person. Things joining up together in a neat and clever just hits the spot to me. Foreshadowing, re-reads that just get better and better, give them all to me. So when there were several in this book, you guys can bet I put down my book and nodded off into the distance, thinking “ah, Book Gods, you’ve done your job.” Starting with characters as I usually do, most were solid, in particular Bree. You know, I’m not a first person perspective lover. I think it’s harder to depict a personality in that writing style, despite being in the person’s heads. Often, I feel it doesn’t allow for flaws as much as third person and it also limits other, more interesting perspectives, but Bree was pretty solid. She was stubborn, witty and friendly all without playing that same trap that female YA characters fall into, that being a lack of agency and authority. Her confidence bounced from off the page and despite her age (she’s sixteen. I would rather she just be a young college student than being in a residential programme) I thought she differentiated herself from other YA characters which, after reading Realm Breaker, is like a palette cleanser. Second, Nick, the squeaky clean good guy who is Obvious Love Interest…wasn’t that bad? At this stage, you might be thinking “wait, a second. This reviewer never likes instalove love interests. Are they being held hostage?” (Maybe) And no, while I’m not aboard the hype train, this might be one of the better, if not best depictions of instalove I’ve seen in a while. I think it’s because Bree spends a decent amount of time with Nick particularly in the first half of the book so it felt like there was something there. In addition, there’s no secret longing or rejection of feelings. When they start to feel a spark for each other, it’s kind of admitted outright on the page which saved me a lot of angry inhales through my nose. I mean I still hate instalove and would I probably have preferred this book without it? Yes! You know I don’t believe in instant love, the emotionless troll I am! But it was subtler, more believable and hey, if it can even be explained by the plot, well…let’s say I’ll take it. Now, shooting over to Bad Boy #373. Selwyn Kane. Golden eyes and a penchant for taking amusement in threatening people. This might be an unpopular opinion but he was…weaker than Nick as a character? Look, I normally vibe with bad boys, mainly because there’s a sustained dislike between them and the main character and when that blossoms into a friendship, it’s all that much better. It’s just he ticks off all the boxes of angsty YA boys. Snarky? Check. Tragic past? Check. Sometimes looks out for the Bree while she’s all like “oh, he’d never do that. I must be imagining it?” Check. To be clear, I think both Selwyn and Nick have compelling backstories. I’m not dissing them. But Selwyn didn’t add anything new or original to the trope and his personality felt too one-dimensional for me until he and Bree started developing a relationship. I don’t know if this fits the vibe of a love triangle. I think Bree and Selwyn fit much better as friends forged over grief and I want them to remain that way. But other times I think Deonn is trying to suggest otherwise, which is such a shame because I find they work better without(?) being together. This is also a call for some more platonic friendships between boys and girls in books while we’re at it. But anyway, you know me. One or no love interest is enough. (More can be spicy, but only if they’re done well). The other characters were the weakest point of the book. Bree is inducted into a secret society of magic and many of the supporting characters are based here, but there’s too many and none are distinctive enough to stand out bar Greer I think. I wasn’t invested in most of them and I couldn’t tell who was who around halfway through the book. Patricia, Bree’s therapist, was more complex and interesting than the lot of them, as well as the healer, William.That includes Alice, Bree’s best friend, who doesn’t serve much purpose beyond being Bree’s friend and a pre-existing character Bree has a tight bond with (though it’s barely shown). They spend a lot of the book arguing and Alice is barely in it which enhanced the feeling she definitely served as a plot tool than a fleshed-out person. While we’re speaking about plot, it was pretty tight. Distinctive magic systems can be hard to find these days but I enjoyed this one. Basically, (excuse me if I get some of it wrong) Arthur had thirteen knights and their descendants (the first born of each family I believe) inherit their abilities granted they’re awakened properly. But considering the amount of knights who are awakened are proportional to how much danger the world is in, and a lot of them are awakening well… it’s not looking good for our gang. The world-building in that sense was relatively strong though sometimes I did forget things. The Welsh mythology was less touched on unfortunately. We see a few monsters but it’s a lot of similar description in my opinion. I’d appreciate more demons in the next book and the realms they come from. Speaking of the villain however, (I totally called it, even though there was no indication of who it was. Ah, the power of expecting good old tropes), their motive…I stared at the page for a while and thought “hmm. That’s really the foundation of their hatred in the book?” It’s very hard to go into it without being spoilery but I just felt it was very…lazy or forced like “that’s really your motive? Oh f**k off.” I think because the rest of the book hits a compelling standard, the motive felt too on-the-nose. Not saying there isn’t people like that, but I thought seriously? Of course they would be that kind of person. Anyway (after my very ambiguous paragraph) I really appreciated the themes woven into this book, particularly Deonn’s depiction of grief. There’s Bree and there’s After-Bree (after her mother’s death) and seeing those feelings coincide in this book made for very real and raw writing. Secondly, Deonn does delve into racism. Bree experiences a lot of micro aggressions being inducted into a society that caters to the white and wealthy (there is a lot of nepotism involved in who gets what), as well blatant incidents of racism. This includes the plot touching on slaves in plantations – once again, I won’t go into it – but there was a lot of care and thought put into this book. This isn’t a contemporary book focused on racism happening today, but instead goes much further than that. Besides being a lot of fun (We have trials, training, fights) and well-written (nothing special, but extremely easy to read) the way storylines were tied up and connected were the best aspects of this book. I cannot go into the details about the last few chapters, but foreshadowing, hints…guys, it was all pulled together. Often, you come across books that leave immense plot holes. This is often why magic systems are left looser as it allows authors to conjure whatever tool they need to help their characters proceed to the next plot point. With a tightly-written magic system and history, Deonn’s reveals match up perfectly with what we know is possible and makes the book that much more satisfying. I looped over the plot in my head to find errors, but it was as simple as puzzle pieces clicking together. It’s been so long since I’ve found a YA book that ties up storylines with such skill and still leaves questions open for the next. Even the mystery of Bree’s mother took a route I didn’t expect, a route that ended up being more original and explained than I expected. Where my rating drops is the weak side characters, maybe the length and the writing at times being a little repetitive, but this was a really solid and well-written book. It would not be mildly fair of me to look for a fault when there are so few and it was so entertaining. I’m glad I listened to the reviews and actually found it exceeded my expectations. So, I suppose I’ve nothing else to say (I might write more if I there’s anything I’ve forgotten), but this - Believe the hype. It was worth it.
5813166788	hey! so this was insane - I feel the makings of a true GOD TIER series with some of the most perfect character development I have ever experienced??? wtf???? I felt this story in my bones. I was utterly CONSUMED from start to finish, it grabbed me by the throat and forcefully dragged me out of the month long reading slump I’ve been in sure BUT AT WHAT COST. also Team Selwyn, the fuck?? that’s the only correct answer I will not be taking comments at this time.
3220254780	It was okay.I thought the idea was great, but it was something about the execution that I wasn't a fan of. I thought Bree was kind of annoying and I think that is why I didn't really connect with the story. Also the connection with Arthur and Bree reminds me of Atticus and Wainwright in Lovecraft Country It's VERY similar. I like Bree's connection to The Root, and would have loved to spend more time on that storyline. Maybe in the next book we'll get that. *shrug*
4761894809	2nd Read: 5 stars. Truly such a great book omgggg please if you haven’t read it GO READ IT1st Read: 5 stars. I haven’t loved a book like this in sooo long I’m literally dying to read the sequel. Also I ship Bree + Sel + Nick??? Can this please happen?
3618020803	just came back to write a review on how this book is indeed EVERYTHING TO ME! bree matthews is my tether i’m convinced! on my death bed i would recommend this book because it’s just that good! and i don’t even like fantasy like that but DAMN IMMA START READING FANTASY IF ITS ANYTHING LIKE THIS!tracy deonn i love you, always and forever! i’ve never related or felt so close to a character in my entire life. if this is what white people have been feeling ever since they were little (being represented that is) and i JUST got a taste of this, i thank you for bringing me that experience. on top of the amazing lead character, there is an intriguing love triangle and elements of racial discrimination that i have personally faced, as well as the magic aspect and the world of that is so phenomenal! so thank you tracy, because this book right here??? it’s my new personality trait!
3481307366	“Love is a powerful thing, more powerful than blood, although both run through us like a river.” This book was fantastic. It was wholly different than what I had expected based on the reviews I had read but in a good way. With characters that were easy to love, an amazingly intricate plot, and an ending that only left me wanting more, I can officially say that this book exceeded my expectations. ❦ Bree ❦ As usual characters first. I absolutely adored Bree and had a blast (and sometimes a good cry) reading about her. She was a strong and perseverant character, and I adored seeing her stand up to the bullies in her life. She was also incredibly relatable, and I love that the author included so many scenes about race and racism that happen in real life. One scene that stuck with me was where two characters in the book touch Bree’s hair, and she gets angry and explains that she doesn’t like it. That scene meant so much to me, because people try to touch my hair ALL THE TIME. There were so many scenes just like that one where I was honestly in awe of the amazing representation in this book. “Growing up Black in the South, it’s pretty common to find yourself in old places that just… weren’t made for you. Maybe it’s a building, a historic district, or a street. Some space that was originally built for white people and white people only, and you just have to hold that knowledge while going about your business.” Continuing a bit with Bree’s character, I personally don’t have much experience with grief and the loss of a loved one, which was obviously a huge aspect of this book. So while I can’t relate, I can say that even I could recognize how well written Bree’s experiences and reactions were when it came to her mother’s death. Every scene where Bree learned a little more about her heritage was so poignant and so so moving. “Why someone dies is not the same question as why they are gone.” ❦ Nick and Sel ❦ As for Nick and Sel, let me just say I am 100% rooting for Bree and Sel, because as much as I think Nick is a nice person, I AM TEAM SEL ALL THE WAY. BISEXUAL CHARACTER WHO ENDS UP WITH SOMEONE OF THE SAME GENDER PLEASE. I AM BEGGING. ❦ The Plot ❦ I’m going to talk about the plot next because it was truly one of the things that set this book apart from so many other books out there. This book was contemporary and fantasy, with the fantastical aspect being based on Arthurian lore and legend. Personally, I’m not a huge fan of King Arthur stories and never have been, but this was so much more than that. The effortless blending of Root magic inspired by African legend and Arthurian lore was incredible, and so well written. It took a while for the setup to end and for the real plot to begin, but once Bree was thrust into the middle of the conflict I was invested. I honestly can’t wait to see where this story goes. I’m actually so angry that I didn’t pick up this book earlier. ✧･ﾟ: *✧･ﾟ:* *:･ﾟ✧*:･ﾟ✧my carrd ❦
3522055228	reread nov 2022: just as good as the first time i read this, if not better!! phenomenal story. onto book #2!!~~~Buddy read with my guardian angel, Ashley! Love you babe :))Ahhh, this book was something else! A knights-of-the-round-table, Arthurian legend retelling? Tick.POC representation with little scenes talking about the everyday life of a Black woman? Tick.LGBTQ+ rep with non-binary characters? Tick.A story showing the struggles and victories of overcoming grief? Tick.A dark and enigmatic character who's hot af, has tattoos, and is basically my one true love and new book boyfriend? Tick.A strong and capable heroine who learns to overcome all her struggles and come out the other side as a better woman? Tick.Basically, this book had EVERYTHING. It was funny, touching, heartwarming, sweet, memorable and ripe with characters that I know I'll never forget. Our MC, Bree, is SUCH an amazing character, she's believeable and certainly not perfect, but she's wonderful despite that, and she always does the best she can with the hand she's dealt. We're also lucky enough to be introduced to Nick, a sweet, kind boy who is everyone's best friend, and a really good guy. And then there's Sel. Selwyn. The love of my life *sigh*. God, I love him. He starts off as a dick and a half, but he gets so much better, and as we're introduced to different sides of Sel he just becomes an even more incredible character. I don't want to spoil too much, but he and Bree turn out to be quite similar, and I really, really, REALLY want them to spend more time together and becomes closer to one another. I love you, Sel!All up, this is an amazing story! With brilliant characters, an interesting world, a unique magic system, sweet romance (there's a slight love triangle, but I liked it), wonderful rep and amazing messages woven throughout the book, this book had everything I need in YA fantasy and then some. Amazing! Thank you to my dear Ash for this buddy read!
5397463616	Slam dunk. ✨
4838355112	Bree vive una delle peggiori esperienze che possano capitare: perde sua madre in un incidente stradale. Il lutto crea una nuova Bree, sprezzante del pericolo e decisa a lasciarsi alle spalle la provinciale Betonville per raggiungere la prestigiosa Università della Carolina del Nord.Nella ricerca di una via d’uscita da un dolore che sembra essere senza fine, Bree incappa in un gruppo di personaggi loschi che sembrano essere a caccia di qualcosa.Chi sono questi individui? E, soprattutto, perché uno di loro sta cercando, con molto impegno, di cancellarle la memoria?Tramite la sua opera Tracy Deonn rielabora una serie di lutti traumatici aprendoci gli occhi sul disturbo da lutto persistente, una condizione psicologica molto complicata che consiste nel rivivere continuamente il lutto come una ferita aperta inventando spiegazioni fittizie e attribuendosi colpe per l'accaduto. L'autrice sensibilizza il lettore anche sulle disparità sociali e di genere che interessano la vita di miliardi di persone ogni giorno, in particolare una ragazza afroamericana nata nel sud degli Stati Uniti come Bree, come Tracy Deonn stessa.Un equilibrio perfetto tra fantasy e realtà che ci regala dei personaggi interessanti e credibili e una storia incredibilmente appassionante.
7873683154	glad she has a sword now use it as much as you want babygirl murder is legal if you’re in charge
3692526103	This review and others @Bookerification Rating: 4 stars Cover: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 I love this beautiful illustration of Bree with her large, curly black hair and red magic flames. The pairing of blue and red colours also works great, making the design eye-catching. Writing: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Told from Bree's point of view, the rich narrative nicely captures everything she encounters and feels. Her gradual immersion into the secret, magical world alongside ours is perfect for gently establishing the complex world without the dreaded info dump. Not only is the worldbuilding filled with intricate lore, but it also touches on serious themes such as racism and slavery. However, this elaborate setting meant that there was a lot of information to take in, and I found this somewhat overwhelming. “Legends are dangerous… don’t underestimate them" Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Bree's struggle with the tidal wave of grief from her mother's death is one of the first things we learn about her, and I love how this is explored throughout the story. I especially love the positive light shone on therapy even though an unconventional approach was used. Besides this, Bree's dive into the magical world and secret society infuses the story with action, mystery and lore. These different features kept the story engaging and addicting while strengthening Bree's self-discovery journey. As the climax approached, various twists and revelations were skilfully used to create a slight cliffhanger ending that has me eager to get my hands on the next book. Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟🌟 Sixteen-year-old Bree is a strong-willed and confident black protagonist. Her skin colour is not just mentioned, but there are constant references to her hair and other experiences specific to people of colour, which I loved. While her character is another Chosen One protagonist, Bree remains relatable as her strengths and flaws are both bared. To make her character even easier to like, she also gets a heartwarming arc of self-discovery as she faces her grief and heritage. "Some truths only tragedy can teach" Secondary characters: 🌟🌟🌟.5 The large cast of secondary characters was hard to keep track of. However, some characters did manage to make a strong impression on me - Alice, Will, Sel and Nick. These characters are given clear personalities and distinct roles that make it easy to connect with them. These four were also very engaging as they turned out to be more complex than initially presented. Romance: 🌟🌟🌟.5 Despite the initial sparks and cute banter between the characters, Bree's relationship seemed too sudden. These sparks soon fade, and the relationship is overshadowed by the growing attraction between Bree and another character. What makes Bree's second connection even more enticing is that the characters start off as fierce enemies, but this gradually shifts as they support and discover more about each other. In a nutshell, 'Legendborn' was an incredible read with a compelling world and main character. There is magic, mystery, action and romance, all woven into a beautiful journey of self-realization. While there is a slight cliffhanger ending, it only makes me eager to get my hands on the next book in this series. I would recommend Raybearer by Jordan Ifueko for those who liked this.
3616403257	This book was everything I wanted and more. I can tell you right now that this, along with The Fifth Season, is going to be one of my favorite books of 2021. I'll admit that the first thing that drew me to the book was the setting. I'm a student at Carolina myself, so I wanted to see what Deonn's secret, underground Carolina would look like. The idea of a secret society at a university also reminded me of Leigh Bardugo's Ninth House, which I loved. The idea of a secret society at UNC? Even better. I think Deonn did an excellent job crafting the setting. Both Carolina and this secret, Arthurian society seemed authentic. The magic system was complicated enough to keep things interesting, too. The characters were the real stars of this show. The main character, Bree, is dealing with the death of her mother. While I have been fortunate enough to not have to deal with this kind of loss personally, I have seen plenty of other reviewers praising the book's portrayal of grief. I also appreciated the commentary on the struggles Bree faces as a Black girl in the South. In fact, there was a lot of diversity to appreciate, including a nonbinary character. I sympathized a LOT with Bree's best friend and roommate, Alice. I also loved Nick and Sel. I have some potentially-spoilery thoughts about the romance so I'm going to include those in spoiler tags here: (view spoiler)[When Sel walked onto the page in the first chapter I just KNEW he was going to be the dark, broody love interest. I was somewhat relieved when Bree fell for Nick and even happier when there didn't initially seem to be a love triangle forming. After everything that went down in the end of the book, I'm not sure that Nick and Bree have a future together. I still love Nick, but Sel just makes more sense now. I'm hoping Nick and Bree can remain friends in book two even as Sel and Bree become closer. (hide spoiler)]**END OF SPOILERS**At 500 pages, Legendborn is a little longer than most YA books. Nonetheless, it has a lightning-fast plot. I couldn't put it down. The plot twists toward the end were fun and unpredictable and left me dying for the next book in the series. I absolutely can't wait to see where Bree's journey takes her next! ... I’m SO EXCITED to finally read this! It takes place at my university and it’s really hitting hard since I can’t be on campus rn 😭
3897345335	This is such a great book in so many ways. The author manages to tie in so much social commentary on what it’s like being black in the south and it’s really admirable. That was by far my favorite aspect of the book. But, alas, this was a good reminder that I’ve graduated from YA fantasy. I really struggled to read from the perspective of a 16 year old, and because I’m so familiar with YA fantasy tropes, I knew what was coming every step of the way. For this books target audience, this is a 5 star read. It’s flawless.
3821175632	DNF at Colonizer magic, this was after the constant mention of I am black and everything/everyone is racist even though I judge everyone based on their looks and yeah I am crushing on this basic white boy after 2 days and just never mind that my personality is extremely annoying . My first near DNF was the info dump chapter which makes it impossible to understand what the hell is happening after that. But I have a feeling it don't matter to must they want the woke points and will like this book. I tried I really tried its terrible.
3600027129	I can't wait for the next book 😭TriggersPlotThe plot was fun in a crazy kind of way. It made me regret reading this book in 24-hours...there were too many plot twists which drove me nuts.• Bree is a sixteen-year-old who is sent to a college prep boarding school when she learns that her mother died in a car accident, but she's always felt as though maybe it wasn't an accident. Maybe someone killed her mom on purpose. Bree and her best friend Alice go to a party - they get separated and Bree spots a demon in the sky and some odd people killing them. One of the people spots her and "Mesmer" her so she forgets everything she saw and goes home, which she does...until she remembers everything the next morning. Later we learn that Bree has the ability to resist mesmerization. After that Bree sees a vision of her mom and realizes the demons she saw and her mom might be connected. Bree gets assigned a person to look after her, Nick, who she later learns was in the same society and knows the people who mesmered her. But for his own reasons - he quit.Later Bree decides to join the "Legendborn" with Nick as her Squire. She disguises herself as a Page to find out more about what happened to her mother without being found out. Sel who mesmered Bree at first becomes very suspicious of Bree and thinks she's working with the Demons or IS one. She continues working with Nick as his Page then she finds out that Nick is the supposed Scion of Arthur waiting to be awakened which leads to her finding out that his father is Lord Davis, the head of the organization.And so the story goes on and Bree meets Patricia who knows Bree's mom and is now her therapist. It is later discovered that Bree's mom had the power of root and there is a whole different society that doesn't agree with the 'Legendborns' beliefs. Root is a power that has run through the family for generations and Bree might possibly have it as well. As we go on, we learn that Sel is more complicated than it seems. Turns out, he's a Shadowborn and he's struggling more than we know. Even though Bree and Sel don't act like each other, they grow closer and relate to each other. They agree to break into Nick and Sel's old home and go through some files when they discover that Bree's mom was killed because of something she saw AND was discovered that she had the power of root. Bree decides to give up. She sees no point in continuing to be Nick's page. But before she could quit she has to go to one last ceremony. She goes to an awarding ceremony where Legendborn chooses their Squires and Nick chooses Bree. And she Accepts. From then on, it's CHAOS.So I'll just stop explaining the plot because I don't want to ruin anything for anyone but there is definitely more to this book...MUCH MORE.WritingGOD! Why aren't enough people talking about the amazing writing!? The writing in this book was BEAUTIFUL, AMAZING, MAGNIFICENT. It was outstanding. I felt every word, phrase, and expression deeply I loved it so very much. I actually understood and loved the world-building and construction so that was a big part of me loving the book. Especially since although the writing was good, there were parts of the book that were info-dumpy. Racism projected in this bookThe way Tracy touches on Racism is beautiful. Not a lot of authors can do what Tracy does which is to make the racism in this book be plain simple racism. She doesn't try to hide it or even put it into something more simple that everyone can agree with because that's was racism is - it's different for everyone but she didn't change a thing and try to make it compatible. She shows it as it is. Pure, simple, yet complex racism.Bree/BriannaI loved her!! Tracy did a perfect job of developing Bree. I connected with Bree right when I heard of her. She's so realistic!! I loved that she wasn't perfect and struggles with a lot of things. Her mother's death affected her greatly although she acts all sassy and cool, beneath it all, she was just a teen grieving for her mom. I also loved how Bree was sensitive when it came to simple things that other people never realize are bad to do or say. But the best part is- SHE SPEAKS UP FOR IT. Bree's not afraid to speak up for herself or someone else which I really deeply appreciated. I also really loved that Deon made the main character an African-American (we really need more of that) that's also dealing with racism. So not only did Bree deal with racism but also mental issues and grieving. Nick/ NickolasHe reminds me of Nikolai Lantsov! I had a connection with him instantly and loved his warm charming character. I also loved how he saw past Bree's color (let's have more of that) and loved her for who she was but still acknowledged it was there! He doesn't forget that she has a different skin color but he loves her regardless ♡ Maybe Nick was a bit blunt but I still enjoyed seeing him near Bree. It was interesting to see how and why he didn't want to be "awakened" and his feeling towards Sel. I also loved how he was protective of Bree BUT also let her have space and time when she needed it! Sel I never despised or disliked him for how he acted because I knew there was more to him or maybe a reason (although it still doesn't make his behavior ok) to why he is the way he is. AND I WAS RIGHT! I just knew he was going to be one of those characters who are dark and have secrets plus are closed off but are so much better than their grumpiness (Jace, Will) Ring any bells? He was just a really fun and annoying character to be around.Quotes "Don't make your life about the loss. Make it about the love." -Patricia "Typical anger can hinder or help. But the kind that burns in your gut? That's Fury. And Fury is meant to be used." -Sel "Death separated us from one another, and yet it holds us too close. And as deeply as we hate it, it loves us more." -Bree "Love is a powerful thing, more powerful than blood, although both run through us like a river." -PatriciaOverallThis was so worth the hype! This book deserves all the hype in the world!! If you've seen a lot of negative reviews and don't know if you would read this book, just try it! Try it and see what happens because honestly, this was everything.~Till Next Time!📚 Ꮢҽαԃ σ⨍⨍ ɾҽαԃҽɾട! 📚
3562797419	Reading Olivia's Favorites: https://youtu.be/_OBsE6B4UaEI read the first 75 pages physically before setting it down for a new release. Then listened to 75 pages on audio then went back AGAIN and read the first 75 pages physically. That's how confused I was about the magic system. But it's worth it.Bree Matthews is the MC I've been waiting for. She is everything. Her vibe? Immaculate. You wanna watch scary movies with her but you also wanna take a bullet for her?Selwyn Kane is daddy and we simp for this Draco Malfoy motherf*cker. Nick has 'saddle them horses' vibes and big Friday Night Lights vibes. We're here for it all. The white supremacy in this book is so deftly done. At times it is a plot point and you get the full reaction from Bree. Other times it is woven in so intricately that you almost let yourself brush past it before reeling back to a line or word and realizing it's meaning and intention. I remain fairly confused on the magic and the world building but I love the characters too much to care about that.
5561939839	⭐ 2.5 STARS ⭐All I see is missed opportunities.One can tell how thoughtful and properly layered the fantasy is. I really thought I was going to love this book, but unfortunately it was a disappointment. Looking at the solid 4.4stars goodreads rating, I was expecting a 5 star read, but to no avail.Alerts have been tagged before the spoiler, so feel free to read the review. THE PLOT Although the premise intrigued me, I still felt it wasn't a strong enough storyline for a 630 page book with a font small enough to give me a headache.Almost the entire book was sluggish. I get why some chapters and scenes are necessary to the plot and character's development but some parts seem irrelevant, looking merely like a filler. If the author could make it precise and concise, that would have been so cute.There were some plot twists in this book which were already foreshadowed, and unfortunately they didn't have much of an impact on me as I wasn't invested enough in anything that was happening. The main reason was because some of these plot twists were already a possibility in my mind since the middle of the book. I mean cmon, - SPOILER -Lord Davis and his Kingsmage Issac being a traitor, and Sel's mother being an innocent victim- SPOILER - wasn't at all surprising. FANTASY/WORLD BUILDING The entire world building of this book comprised of info-dumping. There were so many magic worlds: Bloodcrafters , Rootcrafters , Mediumcrafters , Wildcrafters , etc. I was bamboozled, confused and tired from all the infos being thrown at us from everywhere with so little foundation to explain the world. There were several occasions where I had to put the book down to process the information. It led me to open legendborn fandom wikipedia and go through all the terminologies at once. And thankgod I did that, it made the book much easier for me. While I always despise info-dumping, I can tolerate it in small doses. This book has pages upon pages of information that is dumped on us. At one point in the book, 10 pages of the world and how it functions is explained.Usually in fantasy books where the main character is new to the world, we understand the world along with the main character. But in this case, Bree seemed to understand everything about the world instantly, while I was completely confused.The magic system and world-building are well thought out and complex, but the way they are conveyed to the reader left me lost and underwhelmed. Bree seems to learn a lot about the order that we don't, and essential information is dropped at convenient times with little explanation.There were several instances where the characters over-reacted at some supposedly crazy reveal but all the time I was like 'isn't this supposed to be obvious?'And there were several times where the characters over-reacted in a way I didn't get? Like why are you reacting like this? What's the reason your eyes are widening at this info? Why are you running away and hiding? Why are you crying at this?There were several instances where Bree automatically assumed things on her own with no explaination. And we were left wandering what made her come down to this conclusion. CHARACTERS/CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT Bree was a mediocre mc for me. There's nothing wrong with her, but also there's nothing that appealed to me much. There also needs to be more development on the character front. Bree was so one track minded and we didn't get many scenes with her genuinely connecting with the people around her. Sometimes Bree was super stubborn angsty teenager and made some *questionable* decisions which lead to some funny one liners at times, but ultimately I just found her quite empty which made it hard to read from her perspective.Although I appreciate the author's attempt to deeply analyse bree's grief but for me it mainly consisted of broad terms like therepy, persistent complex bereavement disorder (pcbd), acute traumatic grief, ptsd, etc. This reminded me of how "American" this book is. I mean, rather than deeply feeling through her grief, I often found myself engaging in such terminologies which made no sense to me.I appreciate the diversity and the whole everyday racism against the black folks being brought into the light by the author. And I seriously stand for my black people, but again, as I'm neither American nor black, nor am I very thorough with their past and the feelings that flows through them, I couldn't totally find myself connected to this part of the book.Again, the above two points are a ME problem, not the author's. But her efforts are nevertheless appreciated.The friendship with Alice was completely left by the wayside.As a character-driven reader, I wished there had been fewer named characters and that we'd had more of a chance to get to know and care for them. From the few who were well-developed, I can tell the author has a knack for building loveable and intriguing characters. I just wish we'd had more of them and fewer extras.This could have been such an easy found family trope but unfortunately the author didn't take it there. Missed opportunity.- SPOILER BELOW -Fitz died at the end and Evan turned out to be a disguised demon all this time. Do I care? No. Cuz the author didn't bother me enough to give two flying fucks about any of the side characters.- SPOILER ENDS -Nick and Sel were very generic, cliché male characters. In the start I liked Nick more, and towards the end I liked Sel more. This is bcz when Deonn was developing Nick she left our Sel completely, and when she was developing Sel she sidetracked Nick completely. ROMANCE Both instalove and a love triangle, the two laziest ways to insert a romance. Very poorly developed, with little to no chemistry."Even before I felt the prickle of his gaze on my back, I knew Sel would be the only one to come to me. Aside from Alice, he's the only one who looks at me like I'm still just Bree."Girl wasn't he planning your death trap just a few chapters ago?? And now he's your soulmate? ACTION SCENES How can the fantasy be so strong yet the characters in it be so weak. Honestly though, we just went up to 3rd level threat monsters like hellfoxes and uchels and the book's strongest warriors, the King and his Kingsmage were failing terribly. Everything was in shambles. I wonder how they'll survive the callaman when they haven't even faced the worst shadowborns and yet they were pathetically getting ravished.We saw very little fight scenes. Most of which didn't usually involve our main character fighting (understandable). The only epic legendary battle was within the last 10 pages where we had the great reveal, which brings me to my next point. POSSIBLE PLOT HOLES?? The question mark persists as I'm not sure whether these are actually the plot holes or I'm just projecting my lack of understanding of this book??- SPOILER BELOW -Let's talk about the biggest plot twist:-Bree being the Scion of Arthur and the actual King. I didn't see this coming, but with all the chosen-one tropeyy going around in the plot I wasn't surprised either. Also Nick being the Scion of Lancelot made sense but no sense at the same time. Like, I get it that the generation of Lancelots were brought up disguised as Davis, the gen of Arthur. And this remained a secret as no-one after the 8th ranked Scion was awakened in past many generations. But then who were the Scions who actually called themselves Lancelots?? In the book, the "supposedly false" Scion of Lancelot was away in the north. What happened to him?? And who is he and all of his ancestors if Nick and his ancestors is the actual Scion of Lancelots?- SPOILER ENDS -There are still quite a few loose threads in my mind which are yet to be connected properly. But I blame it all to the author's poor world buliding and the severe lack of explaination of the complex hierarchy.The writing was commendable. The fantasy was way too complex, heavy and exhausting as it's all cramed up in one book. I think it isn't surprising that it took me 3 separate instances of picking this book up to get through it.
3739503865	Ammetto di essere rimasto piacevolmente sorpreso da Legendborn!Ubran Fantasy che parte come uno Shadowhunters qualsiasi ma che riesce a distinguersi per diversi elementi.1. Bree, la protagonista che ho amato da morire. 2. Il sistema magico. Oltre tutta la questione di Re Artù e della tavola rotonda che comunque rimane centrale e ben costruita, l’autrice crea una parte del sistema magico prendendo ispirazione da tradizioni spiritualistiche della cultura Afroamericana. Bello, anche perché riesce a rendere il tema delle discriminazioni e della supremazia bianca ancora più forte.3. L’elaborazione del lutto, uno dei temi centrale del libro. Il disturbo di cui soffre Bree (Disturbo da lutto complesso persistente) mi è sembrato molto sentito da parte dell’autrice e, per quanto possa esprimermi in merito, ben descritto.L’autrice nelle note finali spiega la sua esperienza e come si è approcciata alla tematica, se leggerete il libro vi consiglio di non saltarle. 4. Sel. Il classico personaggio ‘’stronzo’’ dei libri YA che parte come tale per poi avere una bellissima evoluzione.5. Bree e Sel. Li shippo male anche se non sono la coppia principale. Le loro parti insieme sono alcuni dei momenti che ho preferito.Ovviamente il libro ha anche dei difetti.Partendo dal fatto che si respira molto l’aria da Young Adult 2012, ci sono diversi elementi nella storia che io, ad oggi non riesco a tollerare.Una delle cose che mi hanno urtato di più è l’amore a prima vista tra Bree e Nick. Si vedono e capiscono subito di essere fatti l’uno per l’altra, non aiuta il fatto che la prima parte della storia è estremamente veloce.Questo ‘’first love’’ potrebbe trovare spiegazione nel finale ma resta il fatto che non mi ha trovato soddisfatto.Un libro sicuramente lontano dalla perfezione ma, allo stesso tempo, davvero valido.Fa il suo dovere e lo fa bene riuscendo a crearti una dipendenza allucinanteAndando avanti con la storia mi sentivo sempre più assuefatto, una sensazione che con gli YA non provavo da tempo.Promosso. Ora necessito il secondo, sperando in una svolta tra Bree e Sel.
3682628462	Selwyn Kane stan reporting for duty.
3579920948	Actualy rating: 4,5 stars - Buddy read with dear Paigehere is her review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I will give you 10 reasons to read this book based on the 10 letters of the word legendborn (this was more difficult that it seems) L Lovely characters 🙌 Bree - Bree is so strong. She is dealing with a lot of problems and grief but she never desists. She is courageous but stubborn what makes a really good combo in every Ya book, right? However, unlike clary some characters from other books, she is clever and thinks before acting (she should think more but we all need plot so it is ok) ❤ Sel - Give me a mysterious boy with a tragic past and I am sold. Sel is a character with so many layers and history. He remembers me a lot of Damon Salvatore: arrogant, sarcastic, impertinent but at the same time very intelligent and loyal. He is SO PRECIOUS and I am so curious to see more of him in the next book 👍 Nick – Nick is the typic cute, sweet guy. He cares a lot about Bree (too much in my opinion but I understand) and will do everything to protect her. I like him, but not as much as Sel E Exciting relationships 🥰 Friendship – Bree and Alice have such a good relationship. They discuss a lot but when everything is down, they are there for each other. I really like to see her banter too. 💕 Dad and Daughter - Bree´s father is so caring. He is suffering but his main preoccupation is Bree. Even far away, he is always there to support her. 💖 The love triangle – I like love triangles ok, don´t judge me. I am team Sel, Sel is endgame, they are perfect for each other and nobody can convince me otherwise. Nick is sweet and caring but he and Bree should stay as friends. their relationship was instalove ( which I didn´t mind in this case because of after reasons) while Sel and bree are like rivals to friends to lovers ( I Hope) G Girl power 🦾 the girls in this book dominate and I am so here for that. They are the powerful ones and I am not complaining E Engaging plot 🗡 The only knowledge that I had about the king´s Arthur myth was a Disney movie called Avalon high but I didn´t remember a lot. That is to say that you do not have to know the legend to enjoy this story. In fact, I think you will enjoy it more if you went for it blind. In the beginning we have a lot of info dumping and I was so confused, but latter everything starts to making sense and I just could not put the book down N New forms of magic ✨ I really like how the issue of magic was abord in this book. We have magic related to sacrifices but also magic related to our roots (which seems to me as a metaphor of bree journey) D Demons 🐱‍👤 this is the reason, I don´t need to explain more B Black history and black main character. 👩🏿‍🤝‍🧑🏿 One thing that really stands out in this book is the representation of the black community. Some scenes made me so angry and actually made me cry. I will never understand how it is to suffer from racism and the injustices they have to overcome but I can try to educate myself and support in the way I can. I really like how slavery and black history was introduce too O OMG 😱 I was shocked in the ending of this book. We have a lot of plot twists that I did not see coming. My heart was racing and I was eating this book like a hungry whale. R Representation ✔ I talked about the black representation but we also have LGBTQ+characters. The best friend of bree is lesbian. We also have one gay characters, a non binary character and a wlw relationship. N NOW GO READ THIS BOOK PLEASE I know this is not a reason but is an incentive so it counts 🥰
3558253976	4/5Wow. Okay. So, from the gecko I knew this would be an amazing read. I had hoped for a five star, but that wasn’t the case. Despite that, this book certainly had an equal amount of pros and cons. I guess I will go in depth to explain my overall feelings. Spoilers below! Worldbuilding This probably was the weakest point in the book for me, which strikes me as odd because if you think there’s a lack of worldbuilding in this book you’re wrong. In fact, there’s almost too much. To be fair, the world of the Order has to be complex in order to make sense. And I give serious cudos to the author for making such an in depth world. My issues lay in the fact there’s so much information. Family lines, Oaths, Vassals, Pages, Squires, Scions, Merlins, Kingsmage, Reagents, Onceborn, Legendborn, Shadowborn, Bloodborn, plus a bunch of Welsh terms for human, demon, etc. And then we have the other magic form, which I believe is called Rootcraft, which in itself has many terms and powers. The thing is these terms are used consistently, and the roles of people are brought up always, in titles and power. To keep track of all these is near impossible in such a short amount of time. We are given a huge info-dump twice, and later on more as we progress in learning more with Bree. I wish we just learned it in an easier way because it’s clear lines and titles mean a lot and have much significance in this book, but I couldn’t grasp it all. Characters Our main character is Bree Matthews. She’s an overall great MC. My issues lie in the fact she seemed too special - being Bloodborn, Arthur’s Scion, and a Medium (I don’t think this is the exact word used but it’s slipping my mind rn). She seemed to really have the powers cut out for her. She was, for lack of better phrase, a tad of a ‘special snowflake’. She isn’t the worst and I know she is more than that, but it seemed too much. also another thing is my issue lies in the fact she just... gets mad and lashes out at Alice when Alice is right? And Bree also played the whole ‘keep magic hidden to keep my bff safe’ trope which never works out:/ Now, Bree faces grief, trauma, and racism and sexism in this novel that I know are all too real in the real world for so many people. I loved this representation and made the world seem all so much more real when real problems are talked about and not glossed over, also shown when the slaves who built the South were brought up more than once, along with the fact all waiters at a gala were POC. It really puts things into perspective.Nick is one of the love interests in this book. He’s a golden boy, kind and strong. I really like him. He seems genuine, and I hope he gets more development with the series. He happens to be the assumed Scion of Arthur, but later revealed to be the Scion of Lancelot. I think he just felt super stereo- typical in his role and I wished more from him as a whole. Selwyn is the other love interest, and I must say I don’t particularly care for him. He seems to be the bad boy as opposed to golden boy and I can already tell you Bree likely ends up with him (and my thoughts in romance are up next and I have many opinions). He just had no personality beyond snarky, sarcastic, and being powerful. And getting mad, or having this fury. He just seems, again, very basic and I can’t say I find him that appealing. Especially when he tried to kill Bree more than once. The secondary characters also bugged me because there were far too many. We have so so many names to memorize and place with personalities and also place in roles and lines, it’s too much. It’s like a people-dump. I will say Bree’s dad is my favourite secondary character along with William. Romance Oh my. My, my. Let’s start off with the fact that it’s a bit illegal these relationships I think but I’ll let it slide. Now, I am no expert in state laws but Bree is 16 when Nick is 18and Sel is 17 but almost 18. I’m not that bugged by it but I wish Bree was older since she does act older than 16 in my opinion. With that being said. Nick and Bree are in love after two days, which isn’t how it works. Seriously. I love the relationship but it’s moving way too fast. It is sweet though. Bree and Sel never had anything that made them feel like a couple or possible lovers in my opinion. They seemed like friends at the most. And the entire thing with sel being really rude to Bree at the beginning and attacking her an all that is a red flag for me. I think a Nick x Sel endgame would be cool.On another topic, Sel is bi (unless he is pan, but for now I’m going with bi), and Nick is straight I think but could be bi. There is a m/m couple, f/f couple, plus a non binary character as well with some other LGBT characters, and also some variety in race with the characters. Plot I think the plot moved too fast for me. It felt like a lot happens at once and then it slowed down. The ending was very confusing to me. I am still confused and I will re read this book again to better grasp the plot; but I feel I shouldn’t have to do that. But overall the trials of whatever of becoming a Page were really anti-climatic, against the whole war plot. There were two opposing plot lines fighting for the spotlight and one only should’ve been chosen in my opinion. Overall I think this was a solid debut that was well thought out! It had good plot, world, and intrigue. Definitely will but the sequel:)
8072949511	Arthurian legends in the racist American south? Weirdly interesting.Although the story starts slowly and has most of YA cliches, it turns to be quite original and intriguing. Besides teenage awkward crushes and college parties there's a poignant story of race, stolen history and importance of knowing your ancestry. The story of a girl defying rules of white fraternity and privileges. Interesting strong character going through a lot to find her place despite prejudices. Magical system isn't particularly interesting but works good within the story.In general, nice paranormal dark academia.
4105107436	After six months of stalling, I’ve finally read it.Truth be told, reading Legendborn was tedious at the beginning because there’s such a dumb of information all at once that it was dizzying and when you think that that’s it, you’ve got the world-building and magic system all figured out, it goes and throws something new at you.Add to that a retelling of the Legend of King Arthur that I'm not acquainted with (because who buys a book knowing nothing about it but the cover and title? Me, dumb-ass me) and I had a book that was meant to be a big disappointment but thankfully, after doing my research on the legend and checking the book’s terminologies and hierarchy again (and again, and again) it got a lot better and I was truly hooked by the end. The mix of the Arthurian legend, dark academy vibes and the very unique magic system makes Legendborn a captivating read and a solid YA fantasy. In addition to that, the book has an impressive LGBTQ+ representation and it touches on delicate topics such as slavery, racism and dealing with grief. The characters are all well developed, complex and easy to like specially or fmc Bree and Sel, a mysterious character that had an evolution thought the story that I loved. Discovering their origins, abilities and role in that secret order is one of the most interesting parts of the book. There is an awful love triangle, I’m not a fan of the trope in general so ignore me but does it count as a love triangle if I had my mind made up from the very first scene? It’s easy peasy, just ignore all the cutsie and swoony moments with the discarded option and make a big deal of every single interaction with your final choice even if most of them are exchanged threats and insults. Yup, easy. I’ll probably wait another six months to read the next book (sorry, my head hurts) but I’m very excited to meet the characters again and see where THAT twist goes. Tip: note down the important stuff or highlight them because believe me when I say you’ll need them.
7528762448	ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 3.5 starsi have complicated feelings about legendborn.i really liked the arthurian legend aspect and how the story ties it into bree’s grief, her identity, and her sense of belonging. the way it explores generational trauma and the weight of existing in a space not built for you really stood out. as a Black girl in these secret, powerful societies, bree’s experiences are written with care, and that part of the book hit hard.i also liked the worldbuilding and magic system. it felt solid and planned. the side characters had distinct voices, and most of them were genuinely likable. this isn’t one of those ya books where only the main character exists while everyone else is background noise. so in a lot of ways, this really worked for me. that said, this also felt like a very typical ya fantasy — and i don’t mean that as an insult. there are all the expected tropes: hidden powers, secret societies, love triangles, a mysterious dead parent. it’s familiar territory, but comfortingly so. but the biggest issue i had was how bree seemed to just know or understand a lot of magical concepts without the reader getting to learn them with her. there were times i was genuinely confused by the terminology or mechanics of the system because the book assumed i already knew what certain words meant. it felt uneven.as a non-american reader, i also found myself aware of my distance from the cultural framework the novel operates within. especially when it comes to race, history, and southern american context, there were moments where i felt like i was grasping at meaning without quite catching it. that’s not a flaw of the book, but it did shape my experience.so yeah. parts of it i really loved, parts i struggled with. but it’s easy to see why this book is important and why it resonates with so many people. i’ll probably continue the series. i want to see where it goes.______________________okay i have a lot to say. review to come!!!ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ pre-readbook club’s pick of the month. as always, i’m late 😭 but i’m so excited for this one. everyone i usually trust has rated it super high so fingers crossed 🤞
3597542808	I genuinely do not understand how so many people love this book, I had such high expectations and they were utterly shattered. I felt like I was back in middle school reading this, and honestly I probably would have loved it back then, but it just contained all of the tropes I associate with YA fantasy from 2012. I mean seriously, there was instalove, love triangle, clueless girl realizes she has magic and some attractive man introduces her to the secret magic world and she is always asking questions bc she is so uninformed the whole time. Honestly, why can’t people just explain things to each other it was all so cryptic for no reason and i just couldn’t stand it. Most of the “twists” I spotted from a mile away, this was just one of the most average fantasy books I have ever read. I guess this is a controversial opinion, but I really just don’t get the hype. The only thing I really loved about this book was the representation and how racism was spoken about head on, and the representation of the ups and downs experienced after a death in the family. That’s the only reason I’m giving it 2 stars instead of 1, I think there needs to be more representation like this in YA fantasy.
4374011149	oh wow, this was a really gird book. First of all, I loved the idea of the descendants of Arthur's knights. The entire dark academia, secret society/club mixed with magic is extremely different and I really got into the story pretty quickly. Bree was a great main character. She is curious, strong and had so many amazing relationships with different characters. Nick and her were cute. They started of pretty quickly and the moments that they shared, showed that they did have a big emotional connection. Now, my favourite character after Bree is Sel. Not only did they have this kind of deeper connection right from the beginning, but I loved how it developed throughout the entire book. the secret that was revealed, was a surprise but definitely fit into everything that Bree already felt suspicious about. I cannot wait for the second book because now i am sitting here, wondering what will happen.
3402382247	This was an interesting take on Arthurian legends in an urban fantasy setting, but it didn’t quite blow me away. While the magic system and world-building were clearly well thought out and complex, the way they were conveyed to the reader left me a bit lost and underwhelmed. Our MC seems to learn a lot about the order that we don’t, and essential information is dropped at convenient times with little explanation. While I acknowledge this YA novel wasn’t aimed at 30-year-old me, I did find myself wishing these characters were aged up just a tad and that the cliched YA tropes were turned down a notch. The melodrama and inevitable love triangle had me rolling my eyes, but root magic and the way the author tied slavery and family history into the narrative kept me reading. As a character-driven reader, I wished there had been fewer named characters and that we’d had more of a chance to get to know and care for them. From the few who were well-developed, I can tell the author has a knack for building loveable and intriguing characters. I just wish we’d had more of them and fewer extras. All in all, this was a solid YA debut, and I’m intrigued enough to read the second book. I hope the author builds upon this foundation and improves upon it! Edit to add: I was pleasantly surprised by a prominent secondary character who was nonbinary and also shared my (middle) name, Greer!Trigger/Content Warnings: death and violence, blood and gore, loss of a parent, racism, slavery, sexual assault (not on the page)You can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
3644711469	Wow... The fact that this is a debut baffles me.This was such a ride. First of all, this book delved into way more than I expected it to - the discussions on racism and slavery were so incredibly well done! I loved all three of the main characters - I just want Bree, Sel and Nick to all be okay and happy by the end of this. And William: no one is allowed to touch that precious boy!Although it took me a while to get through this, I am so happy that I did. There were so many twists and turns, great characters and discussions on important topics - all wrapped up within this fresh take on Arthurian Legend.
3998674711	Thank you to Elena for buddy reading this with me!First off we need to talk about Selwyn, aka the loml aka the literal definition of morally grey character and i hate everyone but you. Gosh DAMNNNN Let me inform you, if you are gonna read this book for anything, read it because of my dear Sel. Trust me I am doing you a favour. I have mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand, the first 200 pages felt like they were dumping a bunch of information on me and I felt as if it was going one eye and out the other. My brain was being chucked into a blender, blended up and then put back into my brain. I didn't even realise they used aether until page 200. But on the other hand the rest 290 pages I LOVED. I stayed up till one AM in the morning to finish it. I like Bree, she is smart and quick thinking. But when she says this : " Nothing I can't handle. People think im gunning to be your squire and, I guess, using my feminine wiles to try and convince you to select me." I dislike her a little bit more. Now Selwyn is my FAVOURITE character of the whole series, I don't know why I like him so much, I guess I just connected with him. I loved him so much that because I read a paragraph wrong I though that he died I started to cry (he didn't die). He is just so witty, funny and edgy. just my type. HE WAS SOFT WHEN BREE WAS AROUND. And whenever he was around I was grinning like an idiot. I was expecting big things from Nick but I ended up hating him to my very core. Like whattttttt. he was so mean to Sel for no good reason at all and as we know he is my baby so Nick better be watching out because I will be coming for him 🔪 . He better be watching out. Let it be put out there that I HATE love triangle with my entire existence. And I just know that there is going to be one and she is choose the character I HATE. Please Tracy Deonn don't make me cry, i'm begging you. I do love how there is representation of people of different races and sexualitys which is always good to see. Overall this was an ok debut novel. *bows*
6242603902	5🌟 I have never read anything like this and it was so good. There’s so much about this book I loved, from the magic system, to the way we watched Bri handle her grief and come into her own and find her strength. The emphasis on finding strength in your family and specifically as a woman looking back at your mother and grandmothers and seeing their strengths and what they have gone through and survived and growing from that had me so emotional. The plot twists at the end had me gagged and stressed out lol. Just so so good. I cannot wait to continue on with this series!
3982783270	Re-read #1: Buddy read with Rowan❤Just as good as I remembered LIKE SEL AND BREE ARE EVERYTHING OMGedit: I MEET TRACY DEON OH MY GOD I WAS FREAKING OUT (I was on the verge of crying, vomiting, passing out, and having a heart attack)Why more people aren't obsessed with this is beyond me. This book is *chiefs kiss* perfect! I'm obviously planning on re-reading this waiting for Bloodmarked to come out because HOW CAN ANYONE LIVE IN A WORLD WITHOUT SELWYN KANE??? AND I SWEAR TO GOD IF TRACY DEON MAKES THIS INTO A LOVE TRIANGLE I WILL GENTLY PLACE THE BOOK OUT THE WINDOW (I won't throw it obviously I don't approve of book abuse.) Also there's this one quote from the book about someone (don't judge me I forgot who said it) who is obsessed with Sel:"SELWYN KANE WAS THERE!?!?! AND I MISSED HIM!?? He never parties with ANYONE. Holy Jesus that boy is hotttA stream of emojis: tongue-out smiley face, both hands up, hunnit, kissy lips."My original review from when I'd just finished the book:OH MY GOD! OH MY FREAK'N GOD!!! There are no words to describe how this book it SO GOOD! OMG!!! WOW JUST WOW!!! THE ENDING!!! WOW!!! I CAN NOT EVEN THINK OR BREATHE, THIS BOOK IS SO FREAK'N AMAZING!!! I HAD THIS FRICK'N THING FOR MONTHS!!! AND DID I READ IT?!?!?!?!? NO I LET IT SIT ON A BOOK SHELF FOR 4 FRICK'N MONTHS!!! (WHEN I AM MORE STABLE, I'LL WRITE A BETTER REVIEW BUT OH MY GOD!!! THIS BOOK IS FRICK'N GOOD!!!*Ignore my language, I was VERY exited, in case you missed that.*
4139342703	THIS. FREAKING. BOOK.DAMN HOW WAS IT THAT GOOD.I loved everything about this book and this world and these characters and this story and i NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW THNX.
3643045940	As much as I adore Arthuriana, the shining moments of this book were entirely unrelated to the things I expected to love; the "familiar" aspects of YA SFF are present and accounted for, tropes and romantic dynamics included, but the unexpected is peerless. The exploration of American history, the complexity of the setting in North Carolina, the blending of African American mythologies/occult... that's what makes this a standout work. It's a demanding read in terms of its worldbuilding and characters; I did often forget who was who or found myself unsure what certain terms meant, and there's no failing to notice that it's a LOT of book. But if you're looking for diverse storytelling with a brutal, beautiful authenticity, then yes, this is the one.
4703804223	I was expecting great things from Legendborn and it TOTALLY delivered. This book was INCREDIBLE!!"Don't make your life about the loss. Make it about the love."Firstly, the characters. The book is from the perspective of 16-year-old Bree Matthews, who is still suffering from the death of her mother and has gone to the Early College Program at Carolina to escape. But her life is turned upside down when she witnesses an attack from a magical creature her first night on campus and she discovers the existence of the Order of the Round Table.As a main character, Bree was AMAZING. She was strong and determined, but also scared and grief-stricken after her mother's death, which made her feel really 3-dimensional. I loved how accurate and all-consuming her grief was depicted and how Tracy Deonn did not gloss over the horrible details about her family's terrible past (they were chattel slaves on plantations in the American South) and the racism Bree faced in everyday life. These issues were depicted really well within the story. Bree's character was amazingly well-developed and I made a really strong connection with her throughout the book. I loved her as our protagonist.Then, there's Nick. Nick was really sweet and adorable, but he was also suffering because of the huge weight of expectations that were placed on his shoulders. I really loved him as a character and the relationship that blossomed between him and Bree was so cute. The way he cared for her so much and how he was so compassionate and understanding... AAHHH! It was ADORABLE. The other primary character was Selwyn Kane or Sel for short. Sel was mysterious, broody and a tad morally grey- just the way I like it ;) He seemed like a big jerk at the beginning of the book, but definitely got better as the story went along. I loved learning more about his character and his past as the book progressed. He's such a cinnamon roll and is definitely one of my favorite characters now! :)"Some truths only tragedy can teach."Now, onto the writing. I absolutely LOVED Tracy Deonn's style of writing. It was beautifully descriptive, elegantly creating a layered, complex story with characters that were equally 3-dimensional. The descriptions of the settings and the emotions of the characters were gorgeous and the action was really well-written. The writing wasn't weighed down by purple prose, but was detailed enough to satisfy me. It was awesome!“Two faults. My race and my gender. But they are not faults. They are strength. And I am more than this man can comprehend.”Lastly, the plot. The plot was really fast-paced, moving at a breakneck speed, with action and intrigue at every corner. However, it was slow enough that I could form meaningful connections with the characters and really connect to the story. There were also SO many masterful twists that left me reeling! That one at the end- AAAAHHHHHHH! SERIOUSLY didn't see that coming. :0Speaking of the ending- I NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW!!! I need more Bree and Nick and Sel and this story- *screams* *sobs* *bangs head against the wall*“Why someone dies is not the same question as why they are gone.”Overall, AMAZING. I absolutely ADORED Legendborn and eagerly look forward to the release of the second book, Bloodmarked, later this year. If you haven't read this book, please do so immediately. Trust me, you will LOVE it. ALL THE STARS!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Recommendations if you liked this book:- This Poison Heart, by Kalynn Bayron- Amari and the Night Brothers, by B.B. Alston
