7423552	Hmm. One of those books you want to be done with but have to finish to see how it ends. Kind of a thriller, kind of a mystery. The narrator is a former student of all-girls' school Heart Lake who comes back to teach Latin as an adult. In her time there as a student, both of her roommates committed suicide, and now someone seems to be recreating this past aggressively and accusatorily (I may have made this word up; if not, I spelled it wrong). This novel was like an overstuffed sandwich with too many unnecessary details, yet somehow lacking some essential flavor. The protagonist is either really dumb or really in denial about some of the elements of her history, even though she knows more about the actual cases than anyone else. Often the emotions just did not ring true. Plus, how many times does the protagonist almost fall through the ice? It seems to happen on every other page. The author is not very clear about certain details and it becomes hard to visualize; this includes the recurring symbol created out of hairpins that the girls use to leave each other messages. I just could not picture it despite the description. Other times description was flat-out missing and I had no idea what she was talking about. It is incredibly obvious who the person in the present messing with the protagonist is. Then the whole preposterous story wraps up neatly with -- spoiler alert -- yet ANOTHER kid turning out to have been the illegitimate child of the secretly adoptive mother's friend. God. What a mess. Bonus ick: rapey sex with masked stranger.Pros: I learned enough about Latin to want to go buy Wheelock's Latin and learn more. I also learned about how bodies of water freeze. However, these things did not make the book worth recommending.
393916655	Oh, wow...where to begin. There were elements of this book that I wanted to give 5 stars. The story, the plot, the intertwining of characters and their histories. A nice reveal at the end (although it was very predictable). The problem was the pacing. I felt like I was reading the book f...o...r...e...v...e...r. At one point I actually stared at the page number, 287, and could not believe there were STILL 100 more pages to go. Too much detail and description when it was way beyond the need for such. I could deal with the retelling of the story...it had kind-of a I'm going to tell-you-what-we-think-happened but now we are going to tell you what really happened. If it had been a better edited and shortened book when you find out the big who-done-it it would have been okay but by that point you have been clobbered with excess that you already figured it out and can't figure out why the main character can't figure it out. Also...the ice. And the freezing ice. And the snow and walking through the snow and the storms of snow. And the storms of snow and ice. And the frost. And the ice. And the frost and snow and ice and fog. And the rain. The rain that turns to ice. On top of snow that is covered in ice. That moans. And creaks. And growls. And cracks. And creaks while cracking and growling and moaning. So...what should every character do at every turn? Why, let's walk on the ice...and snow...and rock...and ice...on the lake and on the trails...and on the new ice...and the old ice. And at the precipice of the ice and rock and snow and cliff in the middle of the night over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. It's like the movie Titanic...stop going to the bottom or the boat that has the same cold water on the outside of the boat where hypothermia sets in at about 2 minutes. With that being said, I finished the book so I give it 3 stars because 2.5 isn't an option. (I'd give it 1 star for Jane's relationship with her daughter. As the parent of young children you would not just simply dismiss ***SPOILER: that you think somebody took your child out on a lake in a boat and deposited her on a rock!!!!!!!)Oh snap...seems I have given this book more of my time.
3527185242	For fans of dark academia, gothic tales. The Lake of Dead Languages spends takes its time exploring all-consuming, toxic friendships, a love for Latin and classic literature, the breathlessness of first love, the darkness of one’s past and how it may come to haunt you, and how one’s world can come crashing down when you place your universe into another’s hands.
5547851454	3.75 The setting for this was my favourite part, the lake felt like a character and the nature writing was beautiful, however if this is a good thing to you or not and as I was in the mood for it it did overall feel a very easy read for me and despite it lacking in a twist that wasn't guessable and a guillable plot and main character there is just something about the dark academic thriller I just love 🤣
243729603	4 stars--I really liked it.I adore this book for its setting (a girls' boarding school), its plot (full of gothic twists and turns), and its Classical and literary allusions (the deer imagery, the poetry scraps, etc.). All the Goodman books I've read have had school settings (reflecting her own experiences, I think), and they're always authentic and full of interest.
108823134	A '9 out of 10' book - it won't be added to my list of ultimate favourites, but it was the best thing I've read for a long time. I love stories of this ilk, and The Lake of Dead Languages has everything; flashbacks to the narrator's intriguing past, buried (or rather drowned) secrets refusing to stay that way, a boarding school housed in an old mansion, parallels with classical mythology, pagan rites and ice storms. I found Jane likeable from the start, and it was easy to sympathise with her as the other characters (in both the past and present narratives) weren't appealing at all. The only thing I struggled with was exactly why it was assumed Jane had something to do with Athena's suicide attempt at the beginning of the present-day narrative, but once this was out of the way the story flowed effortlessly, with the two plots working together seamlessly. I figured out some of the twists before they were revealed, but isn't part of the fun of a story like this working out what's happening to the characters before they realise it themselves? I didn't manage to guess the final twist, and I also thought the ending wrapped everything up perfectly, which is quite a rare thing. Quietly gripping, and full of suspense and atmosphere.
5094837184	The Lake of Dead Languages:This tragic story seemed like it would be straightforward on the theme of coming of age with Latin and Greek Mythology. A touch of Donna Tart and John Updike. Not a complete match hit but an atmospheric and overly dramatic take on tragedies. This novel does bring to light the intricacies of friendships, control, manipulation, and sexual awakenings. Latin is a main focus and brings an authoritarian form of control with education. I will admit this story bogged me down for a bit but in a good way. I thought that was the intention and felt like I should tread on? Some of the scenes seemed repetitive and contrived but provided some form of structure. It’s honestly an interesting book to analyze.
197885750	An all girls’ school. A Latin Class. A troubled magistra with a shady alumna past. Students writing Latin phrases on their arms and razor-slicing their wrists open. Stolen Diaries. Secret Pregnancies. Taboo Love. Suicide on ice, water and dorm rooms. Academic Pressures. Friendships gone wrong. Ghost lakes and tragic folklore. History Repeating itself.Relax, I’m not spoiling the entire book yet. If you’re a fan of mysteries with gothic touches, and thought the themes I just listed above sounded extremely catchy, I’m pretty sure you’ll find lots to love in Carol Goodman’s Lake of Dead Languages—an almost mythological-esque thriller exploring the edges of adolescent woes and high-school horrors, richly glazed with controversial socio-feministic truths. Just a caveat though: plot became sort of predictable half-way through. Or maybe it’s my inner crankypants again. Goodman makes up for it though by ironing the creases out of her narrative with wonderfully, tragically wounded heroines and yes, even villains, too. Like standing on a glass floor of ice, there’s plenty amount of chills, fragility, nostalgia and clarity in these pages that will oh-so-easily propel you deeper towards its secrets and mysteries.This is Heart Lake School for Girls. Come Hither.I’ve always been vocal about my love of layers. This novel has gazillions of it, and yes, most of it were effectively and intricately plotted within an interchanging series of present-day musings and flashbacks. The focal point is the story’s heroine and narrator, Jane Hudson, an alumna who returns to Heart Lake to teach Latin to a class of girls with whom she sees and identifies similarities to herself and her best friends during their time. It’s a mirror of events and identities, tugging at each other; Repetitions almost blending as one, as if staged by someone who premeditatedly wants to torture her. And the sameness of the tragedies evokes a certain paranoia on Jane—who knew all too well the patterns and the first-hand details of what happened in the past.In it there’s a central, recurring concept of salvaging wrong decisions made and finding truth in all the deceit and confusion blurred frozen by time. I like how bits and pieces of Jane’ high school diary became a device in giving glimpses of their past, particularly on the tragedies whose only remaining witness alive was her. Dun Dun Dun Dun.It’s a page-turner, but I thought some of the major revelations weren’t as shriek-worthy as I wanted it to be, having seen a twist a couple of pages before it gets affirmed. Okay, so maybe I’m just too engrossed wanting to find out who’s the culprit behind everything that I immediately guessed who it was, but still. I love layers, but I’m very particular about execution too. It’s a little pointless dragging a time-bomb longer than it’s supposed to be, just saying.Nevertheless, this book has a lot of good points that shouldn’t be overlooked. In all fairness, the themes incorporated here were all relatively heavy for a coming-of-age story and I thought it honestly captured all the pain and tragedies of high-school’s darker side. I especially adore how everyone in the class gets their own Latin Name according to preferences to ditch their boring, generic names. And since it was a Latin Class, I was able to pick up a couple of Latin words and phrases, Cor Te Reducit being my favourite. It means: The heart leads you back.And like Heart Lake itself, the story delves deeper and murkier as you read on. Heart: it gets to the core of what happened to Jane to make sense of what’s haunting her in the present. It’s somewhat became the conflict with which she will come to peace with her guilt-imbued self. And secondly, Lake: because as you swim further you say farewell to the shores of safety too, for you to put your own bravery to test towards profound depths your feet won’t touch.All in all, the Lake of Dead Languages has been a beautiful albeit scary memoir; It’s piercing and pensive in ways that will ironically make you miss the one phase of your life you’re grateful you’re done with—High School.This book will make you remember how it’s not always sunlit and cheery, but will also tell you, as if in whisper: The heart will always, lead you back.
111514544	This is the first Carol Goodman book that I read, and despite myself I read two of her others even after being so irritated with this one. And I felt the exact same way about all of them. They all have great symbolism, exciting twists, interesting layers of metaphor and intertwined stories. And they are all utterly ruined by Goodman not giving her reader any credit whatsoever. When you almost have that satisfied 'Ah, I have figured something out' or 'ah, that symbol has reappeared here' She slams you with the overly clueless main character saying "look! that symbol is here again!" or "look! I've figured something out" and then explains it in painful detail. The one thing that will really really make me love a book is if it leads me to think that I have figured out some hidden secret that it contains. Carol Goodman denies me that satisfaction by bashing me over the head with the answers. I guess I read the other two books (The Seduction of Water, and The Drowning Tree) because I am so tempted by that symbolism. The ice churning in this book for example, what a great metaphor for the plot of a story, it's mixing and then the ultimate revealing of secrets as the ice floats to the top. But maybe that is what is so frustrating. all the components are there for a really beautiful and enticing story, but they are just so clumsily put together that I am left thoroughly disappointed.
112210426	I really enjoyed Goodman's writing, but I had to remove stars because I figured out all of the plot twists before they happened, which made for a bit of an anticlimactic ending. I spent the second half of the book wanting to shake Jane and say "REALLY?! This is painfully obvious!!!" I really can't say if this predictability is due to Goodman's inadequacies or my teenage tendency to read V.C. Andrews books. Things that Goodman seems to consider shocking were really pretty tame compared to what Andrews wrote (or what others wrote in her name), and it only took a little imagination to land on the right conclusions.I do always like to see the approach authors take regarding the dynamic between women/girls, mentoring relationships, friendships, etc., and I really enjoyed this aspect of Goodman's novel. It was interesting to see her explore how friendships built during the torrid teen years are often built on little that is solid, and how the truth seeps slowly into one's initial perceptions of other people.If you spent less time reading sordid, tangled tales when you were younger, I recommend this. If I had not guessed the plot twists I would be giving The Lake of Dead Languages more stars.
2620724818	Meravigliose atmosfere dark academia, un college sulle rive di un lago ghiacciato del Vermont, una dichiarazione d’amore verso la cultura classica e una serie di misteriosi suicidi. L’ho amato e l’ho divorato.Unico appunto: ho intuito chi era l’artefice del tutto a circa cento pagine dalla fine.
6223242462	“Like Donna Tartt’s The Secret History or a good film noir…[this book will] keep readers hooked.”This quote sits loud and proud on the front cover of the book. Every time a book compares itself to the Secret History, I find myself obstinately cynical and mildly tempted to read it purely so I can prove myself right. This one having been written in the early 2000s (rather than being a pandemic cash grab during the online *dark academia* renaissance) made me a little more inclined to delay judgment though; the fact that I had never seen it mentioned on social media was the deciding factor in whether to invest the time.the synopsisJane Hudson is a Latin teacher at a girls’ boarding school in the Adirondacks. The school has a rich, ominous legend that, although dubious, haunts the school and the behavior of the students. Twenty years ago, in the 1970s, Jane was a student at the same school, where both her roommates fell victim to the fate outlined in the legend, and died by suicide. After twenty years of moving through life with no closure and no agency, she winds up freshly divorced and looking for a new life with her young daughter, back at her old school. She begins getting haunting messages from her time as a student, and the legend begins its cycle again. Jumping between past and present, the reader slowly pulls the thread of what happened back then and how it connects to what’s happening now.the goodI am not usually an easy fan of the two-timelines trope, but I thought it worked well here. It broke up the length of the story and kept the mystery engaging, and made the unraveling of events in the third act much more dramatic. The setting was fun, and the writing was atmospheric. Weather played a big part of the plot which for some reason I am always a fan of. I love an academic setting. I love spooky legends that manifest themselves into something real, living, and inescapable. And no matter how overdone it might be as of recent, classics studies pair deliciously with mystery and morbidity.I really enjoyed the section of the book that took place in Jane’s past as a student. It felt like an accurate portrayal of what it’s like to be a teenage girl who isn’t anything special. As many pieces of “dark academia” fiction as I’ve consumed, I found it refreshing that this one was set in the 1970s. The time period wasn’t overly exploited in a way that felt gimicky, but a lot of the details nodded to the social climate of the time, which is pretty novel for the genre. In alignment with the theme of this era—which was certainly more colorful than the typical moody, dark setting of DA books set in the 90s—the author chose a very fitting, colorful pagan holiday as the pivotal rite, rather than a savage Greek or spooky occult ritual you would expect. Brilliant!the not so goodI predicted literally every twist and every surprise that happened in the entire story. All of them. Maybe it’s because I’ve been reading mysteries since I could read, maybe it’s because I am older than the intended audience (I actually have no idea if this was meant to be YA or adult; the writing style feels like the former but the content suggests the latter); I think maybe these reasons are a little generous though. The author was very heavy handed in her foreshadowing which absolutely killed it for me. Every time I solved something too far in advance, I had no doubt I was right, and I was disappointed because I thought they would have been pretty good twists if she’d just let the reader come to them in due time instead of compulsively pointing hard in the direction of the surprise. Reading this felt like playing a game with a kid who can’t help but giggle and look directly at the place they hid the treasure. While I really enjoyed reading from Jane’s point of view as a high school student, I found adult Jane to be a bore of a narrator, and painfully flat as a character. Things just happen to her and she doesn’t drive the plot at all. That’s pretty realistic for a character whose frontal lobe is far from full development, but she seems to have had zero growth since her adolescence. This is probably meant to be intentional, as time seems to have frozen for her during that ill-fated senior year, but that feels like a cop-out for poor character development. She’s difficult to relate to and is never held accountable for her actions. She sees herself as this doe-eyed little innocent thing, and the story never actually challenges that or holds her accountable for her negligence or cowardice. This could have been a powerful story about unresolved trauma, but it’s kind of just a thriller.I have a lot to say about the final act but I don’t want to give it away. My friend (who read it at the same time as me) compared it to a Lifetime movie and I really couldn’t have conceptualized it better than that, so I think that’ll suffice. And honestly, If someone pitched it to me as “a dark academia lifetime movie in a book,” I’d be all for it and probably really enjoy it. Final word: throw out the Secret History comparison, that’s absurd. But if you’ve already read through all the DA BookTok recommendation lists and you want a YA-esque thriller in a spooky academic setting, this is certainly worth the read. (…unless you don’t want to read about suicide, self-harm, etc. from cover to cover. This book didn’t set out to glorify or romanticize it, and I didn’t find it particularly gory or gratuitous, but it is certainly sensationalized and a major recurring part of the plot.)
4229406575	un'atmosfera rarefatta e soffocante, un college isolato sulle sponde di un lago canadese, omicidi che sembrano ripetersi a distanza di anni. Ci trascina lentamente nelle gelide acqua del lago, manca forse il colpo di scena ma è comunque una lettura coinvolgente.
303842941	I was into it! It kept my attention which is a feat these days! It was sad without being as BLEAK as I find some thrillers. Though I definitely spent the last third of the book internally yelling the answer at the protagonist.Owned physical book 1/2 for the monthOverall owned book 1/5 for the month
174141602	I'm only about 20% into this novel, but I'm already impressed by the seemingly effortless but genuinely elegant prose. This lady can write. Several of the characters (in both the past and in the present) reach their hands up from the page and become spooky real. I'm crossing my fingers that it doesn't fall apart as I go farther.***Okay, finished it. Interestingly enough, there were so many people who compared this to The Secret History that I read it too. Oddly enough, I liked Carol Goodman's The Lake of Dead Languages better. It seemed much more realistic, more actually possible to occur. There was also a chilling theme that I would have missed when I was younger -- the past is never really past, never really over. It stretches into the present and future in a way that the very young simply don't see, can't see. And I found that even more frightening than the series of young girls who died in suspicious ways. I liked the elegant use of language here, but (thank goodness), I never found it to be a pretentious novel. Nor did I ever find it to be obnoxious in its "life lessons." Professors have more of an impact on students than they can ever imagine. That's another scary thought. And similar to "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" this novel shows that teachers are all too human -- with flaws that can (and do) touch the lives of their students in horrific ways. Brava, Ms. Goodman. Brava, indeed.
82895190	A book where every plot "twist" can be spotted a mile away by the reader, but always takes the heroine by surprise (trust me, we shouldn't have an advantage - the story is told from her point of view). Nice added touch - she has frequent flashbacks to her childhood, thus establishing that she has always been the type of person who could go the zoo and be surprised to find a lot of animals there. Added bonus: the author apparently has studied latin, which means we all get to read a lot about people teaching and learning latin.
1687041590	2.75Plot twists che si vedono da un chilometro ed una protagonista con gli occhi foderati di prosciutto. L’unica nota positiva è l’atmosfera del lago e della scuola (dark academia spalmata ovunque).
3586236860	Dark academia at its finest: abbiamo la scuola elitaria, il mistero, i riferimenti alla letteratura greca e romana, che in questo caso si mescolano al folklore e alle leggende della scuola, rendendo il tutto ancora più interessante. È un libro che esplora benissimo e in maniera realistica molte dinamiche femminili, dato che tutte le protagoniste sono donne molto diverse tra loro e ciascuna viene ben approfondita. Mi è piaciuto molto anche come si è sviluppata la storia, smontando e ricostruendo pezzo per pezzo ciò che pensavamo fosse accaduto e l’ambientazione, misteriosa e stregata, ha reso tutto ancora più bello. Se proprio dovessi trovare un difetto è che molte parti del mistero le ho trovate molto ovvie, ma per me è stato comunque un libro pazzesco e particolarmente perfetto per la stagione autunnale che sinceramente meriterebbe molto più hype.
7899093980	this truly is a “we have the secret history at home” book but sometimes what we have at home can also be quite delicious
565645917	A book that starts off really good, and ends up...just bad. Voice and OverallI really liked the hook of the Latin classes, and I thought the beginning was good also. But after the introduction of all the characters, there was a big, and I mean big, downturn in the quality of the book.At some point I felt like I was reading a chick-flick; with all that nonsense about hiding her diary and being worried about what Myra Todd (I think that's what her name was) would say. Another big thing I didn't like was that she was divorced and had a child, but the divorcee or the child didn't really come into the book that much, they seemed like an afterthought or filler. Why put something there that you're not going to use? CharactersThe characters were cliche and boring, and not one of them had any depth. The main character sounded like she was still a teenager; in the middle of the book she seemed that she had forgotten she had a daughter. The repetition of the lake and it's frozen-ness was boring after the first few times, and the authors pathetic attempts to make her sound like 'one of the wild kids' by adding her drug use was random. She's reminiscing about her childhood and then talks about her friends' 'exquisitely rolled joints'. If you don't intend for the material to relate to the story, don't put it in there. Her longtime obsession with that woman was...weird...The girls of the school sounded very stereotypical goth, depressed type. It's hard for me to believe that all the girls were that way. The main character talked about their eye makeup more than anything else, and that was very annoying. The 'cheap teenage symbolism' was just that, and that weird thing about one of the girls sneaking bits of the main characters diary into her homework didn't make sense, although I suppose it shouldn't have. I hated how she called them by their Latin names (even though it sort of related to that ritual thing), but it got confusing when the counselor called them by their real names... The 'rituals' and the 'three sisters legend' were intriguing, but it felt immature.The teachers that were described were one dimensional, and the fact that they were described made the book even more chick-flick-y. The best character was the counselor, she made sense. SettingThe name of the school 'Heart Lake Academy' sounded like something out of a badly-written teenage romance novel. The three sisters legend was interesting, but overworked. The lake was a nice touch, but it wasn't as deeply metaphorically used as it could be. I felt, as a reader, that the metaphor of the lake was explained to me, when I could have actually figured it out myself; that's the whole point of a good writer, to leave the reader wondering but content. I didn't finish the whole book, but I didn't really like how everything was explained.DialogueThe dialogue sounded so cliche and stinted. It felt like the author just picked phrases from soap-operas and put them in there. Flow, Tone, and VoiceThe only thing I really enjoyed about the book was how well it read. It was, for the most part, paced very well and written with nice flow (although some parts seemed boring and to drag on, but not a lot). The tone seemed to change from 'badly written teenage novel' to 'chick-lit' to 'mystery'. The voice at times could seem very mature and then also very immature.OverallI give this one start because of the nice flow and beginning. Everything else was just badly written. It had nice potential, but it was squandered. I didn't finish it because, honestly, I didn't find it worth my time.
2200078683	How can a book be simultaneously repetitive and obvious, and convoluted and confusing?When I say "repetitive," I'm not talking about word overuse, for once. (Though that's present as well, lake, frozen, ice, lake frozen ice, lake-frozen-ice.) Early in the book, in the "present" timeline, a character explained to another character (and me, the reader) how lakes freeze and what overturn is. I actually didn't know that, because I skipped the earth science course in high school and went for biology instead. But then, when the "past" timeline starts in part two, another character explains overturn and how lakes freeze to yet another character. Even if it made sense for those two to have that conversation between themselves, why did I have to hear it twice? Did the author expect me to have forgotten already?The story is littered with doubled plot elements or tidbits of information this way, and if a past event is ever important, there's a reminder when you need it (or even if you don't) so that its significance on the plot doesn't go unnoticed.When I say "obvious," I mean that my track record for figuring out plot twists ahead of time is generally pretty bad. I often get a feeling about something but don't quite figure it out in time, only to have the satisfied "oh yeah" moment when the author wants me to. When a twist feels entirely un-foreshadowed I get annoyed or feel dumb, but when it's done right, I don't mind not putting all the clues together in advance. Here? I had 75% of them right, sometimes far earlier than I think I was supposed to figure them out--as many as a hundred pages in advance of the reveal, for some of them. There was a real lack of subtlety.Yet, despite those two things, I also feel that in some ways this book was convoluted and confusing. The plot structure itself is a nightmare of intertwining timelines that didn't flow organically from each other, and that repetition I didn't like is baked into the premise, but since information about the deepest mysteries the plot holds is doled out in small doses throughout, the "what I think is going on" framework shifts a lot before it settles into "this person is behind it all." And when put that plainly, it doesn't sound like a problem, right? This is, at heart, a strange sort of whodunit, and usually those cycle through a few villain possibilities before settling on the real one. Only, there are so many small crimes in both the past and present, and so many people who are those villains. For one of them, it even turns out that the narrator herself was a perpetrator, and only the fact that we didn't know about what she did until after it was discovered hides her involvement. Ugh, my brain hurts just trying to describe my objections to this structure.Finally, I never felt like the characters were solidified beyond their basic premise. The school girls are mostly awful catty school girls. The teachers are mostly stuffy private school teachers. The narrator is supposedly struggling and coming to grips with her dark past and how it affects her present, but she's mostly passive and reactionary, letting events buffet her from place to place and plot point to plot point.For something I've often seen billed as like The Secret History, which I loved, this was a terrible disappointment.
1131744725	одного прекрасного дня джейн, головна героїня "озера мертвих мов", розуміє, що їй нікуди йти ("кому, думаєш, ти потрібна з твоєю магістеркою з латини?"), і повертається у свою стару школу – тепер уже як викладачка. це, звісно, не те місце, куди дуже хотілось би повернутися, бо там занадто багато страшних спогадів, але коли поведінка твого чоловіка все більше нагадує хрестоматійні приклади психологічного насильства, особливо вибирати не доводиться.проте вже наприкінці першого розділу джейн починає здогадуватися: чоловік – далеко не головна її проблема. можливо, вона не найкмітливіша на світі викладачка латини, але страшні спогади так настирно і зловісно виринають тут і тепер, що їх неможливо проігнорувати. і скоро сумнівів у тому, що трупи таки будуть, не залишається.персонажі "озера мертвих мов" думають повільно; усі шматочки головоломки у них у руках, а от на збирання цілої картини йде значно більше часу, ніж у читача, кому вручено той самий комплект. іноді здається, що мороз, який скував озеро, прихопив за компанію їхні мізки. але розповідь зроблена достатньо майстерно, щоб це (майже) не бісило. так, коли вони нарешті здогадуються, що до чого, хочеться влаштувати переможний танець, проте по дорозі до цих здогадок є стільки атмосферних деталей, що вона, хоч і тягнеться вкрай неквапно, не втомлює.
203165482	This was the first of this author's that I had read- and I loved it. It had all the elements of what makes a good eerie mystery novel- for women. I can't really see myself recommending this to a man. That's not being sexist but it's easy to explain. Lead female character flees with 4 year old child to former boarding school set in brooding frozen upper New York isolated country to teach LATIN (of all things) in hot house atmosphere of teenage girls performing fake Goddess rituals that involve cutting, lesbianism and ultimately murder. Meanwhile Latin teacher has to deal with her own painful past at the school where it seem the the same things are happening again! There's a hunky sheriff! There's a revealed family secret! There's a plot twist! There's a lot of chat about water and ice; the author's specialty. This theme shows up again and again in later books ( I wish she would write a book about sand). I had just finished her last book "Acadia" and found that almost the same book as this one.Read this one if you are into such things.
2687773254	This is the second book of this author that I've read. The first had a decent plot with a rushed, pat ending that left a lot to be desired. This book has a decent plot except for one thing: the heroine is a person so far in denial that it is both mind-blowing and extremely irritating. The woman literally does not know when the noon bus leaves, and if you told her, she wouldn't believe you. She is a walking somnambulist for the entire book, oblivious of facts, denies her own eyes and ears, takes everybody at face value, and worst of all, makes continuous assumptions that are beyond belief. It's a shame, because the writer does know how to write a complicated story. From what I've seen in these two books she does not seem to be able to write a good plot with good characters and an ending that justifies the complicated ride. I have to give her kudos for thinking up complex, layered stories but the rest falls flat providing a quite frustrating reading experience.
4698469415	Annoying protagonist, repetitive (and boring) setting descriptions, generally a good premise but written in a frustratingly immature way. It was fast paced, and yet I still didn’t want to pick it up. Pretty disappointing tbh
3673333726	Could have been worse but for sure could have been better.
4497256103	This gives off major Donna Tart A Secret History vibes. Rural academic setting, Latin, murder, brother sister romances…it’s a bit predictable but for me that didn’t take away from it. I liked the setting of the girls school and appreciated that although there is a lot of nature related prose, it wasn’t overdone.My biggest annoyance was the time the author spent writing about dreams of the protagonist. This is a personal pet peeve that I feel usually does very little to advance the plot. The attempt was clearly to add an ethereal, etc. quality to the spookiness of the story, but it was lost on me.
6191800368	SOOOOOOO good!!!! loved all the twists and turns and loved the ending. this book is reminiscent of The Secret History and If We Were Villains, so if you liked those I think you’ll enjoy this. couldn’t put this book down once I got into it, absolutely recommend it!
4647111244	This book is so weird and unlike anything I’ve read before. The beginning was slow and I really had to force my way through it. However, the good parts were really good. The Latin was annoying at times (if you don’t know what a declension is now, you will after this book) but then sometimes I thought the Latin aspects were interesting. This book is also twisty but doesn’t really feel like a thriller.
3986212666	[5/5 stars] This review will contain spoilers.What a book. I think one of the reasons why I loved this book was the gorgeous writing and how the author created this atmospheric, gothic setting. I fell in love with the whole ambiance of the place and it made me feel strangely nostalgic for something I never experienced.CharactersJane: Jane was almost comically dense. I will admit, I was too hooked on her narration to realize that she could have had a skewed perception all along. Her infatuation with Matt seemed reciprocated the majority of the book, but when I thought of it, it never really was and Matt never expressed interest at any point. I think this was included for the shock value. As for Matt and Lucy's relationship, I don't understand how Jane never even suspected it, despite it being painfully obvious and the topic of incest was brought up more than once. Lucy: I don't understand how and why everyone was enamored with her. She was beautiful, but as far as her personality goes, she was boring. Admittedly, she was very smart but did not use her intelligence to her advantage. It was really wasted potential. I wish we read some parts of this story from her perspective because I think she would have been a great narrator. Deirdre: I felt nothing when it came to Lucy, but Deirdre annoyed the hell out of me. I wish her character was more fleshed out.Their friendship dynamic felt very weird to me, and I was reminded very much of The Secret History and the dynamic of the friendship in that book as well. It felt like the friendship was based on nothing and Lucy and Deirdre did not care for Jane. At some point, it felt like Jane was just being used, especially by Lucy. I did not understand Jane's fascination with Lucy either, but I suppose that's also realistic.Plot TwistsThe incest plot twist was painfully obvious and clear from the very beginning and I still do not get how no one suspected anything. I even started to doubt myself. I don't think the revelation of Lucy's mother made the incest any better or justified it in any way, but it was still shocking. As to the baby, this scene mortified me, especially the description. Another description that left a chill in me was the corpses of Matt and Lucy. Their death felt almost poetic and beautiful. One plot twist that I liked that it took me a while to figure out was Alba's new identity in the present. I only suspected that it was her when it was revealed that there was someone behind the deaths. I thought it was a good plot twist.The final plot twist seemed unnecessary. I think it could have been left out and nothing would have changed. I liked the plot twists but I wish they would have been spread out instead of being condensed in the last portion of the book. EndingThe ending for me was slightly disappointing, especially with the very last "plot twist" and how the final events were rushed and the consequences of the last events were not established well (especially with the deaths and how everyone seemed to be completely fine with it). The ending also seemed too optimistic, considering everything that went down. I wish we had also seen more of Jane's relationship with her daughter and Roy. I adored the writing a lot and I will be looking out for the author's other works in the future.RecommendationsIf you enjoyed The Secret History, If We Were Villains, These Violent Delights (by Micah Nemereverr), then you might want to check this one out as well. Trigger Warningsself-harm/mutilation, suicide, violent deaths, weight loss/gain is something that is also mentioned a lot, drowning, severe blood loss, miscarriage, incest.
69177879	** spoiler alert ** 2.5Really disappointed by this book. Too much detail, especially about the locations of things, but not described in a way I could follow. I figured out the big reveal about halfway through and it was torturous that the main character didn’t. Lucy is the daughter of Helen Chambers and some dude. For some reason, Lucy’s mom takes the baby and says it’s hers and Helen becomes a teacher. Lucy grows up with thinking that she and her brother Matt are maternal half siblings and they develop a sexual relationship at some point. In order to not be separated from each other, Lucy and Matt find Jane and tutor her so she can win the scholarship but Helen gives Lucy and Jane the scholarship bc she wants Lucy at Heart Lake with her. Lucy becomes pregnant with Matt’s child and has a stillbirth. She gets Deirdre to pretend it’s hers but then Deirdre is going to tell so Lucy orchestrates her death. Jane is also in love with Matt and tells him about the baby even though she doesn’t know it was Lucy’s. Lucy was going to tell Matt that they aren’t really siblings but it’s a clusterfuck and Lucy falls in the lake and Matt dives in the lake both dying. Meanwhile, Lucy’s little shadow friend Albi stalks them all and sees everything but misinterprets what’s going on so she thinks that Jane killed Lucy and Deirdre. When Jane returns to the school to teach, Albi is there as the school psychologist and she begins reenacting the event’s killing the girls who live in Jane’s old room. Jane and she have it out on the ice and Jane survives.
4070960927	This book needed an editor to slash through it so badly. There are countless sentences and whole paragraphs that repeat sometimes three times. My copy was from the library and had typos and grammatical errors circled by the last reader. Also there are sentences that are so poorly written they make me laugh. Here’s my favorite: “...it was like looking into deep water when you opened your your eyes and looked into the deepest part of the lake...”Plot lines were not set up well to allow the reader time to forget clues. Incest is mentioned in the chapter right before all the girls go off to hookup with the guys. Though I figured out from the dancing scene at the very beginning that Lucy and Matt were incestuous. (Also there was no real explanation for her obsession with Matt, especially bc they don’t seem to hang out or write after she goes to HS. And why do we never get a real reaction from her about finding out that Matt and Lucy thought she was a joke and targeted her bc she was naive.) The story beats you over the head with these clues to a plot that wasn’t hard to guess. From the second time Ablie was mentioned I knew she was the psychologist, so for hundreds of pages I waited for it to be revealed. The narrator was completely clueless which exacerbated the aforementioned issues. The final twist was honestly cliche.
2763005679	A Latin teacher tries to keep her students sane at an all-women's high school, while sorting out her own past. Very gothic.I loved this and read it almost in one sitting. It's *very* similar to Donna Tartt's The Secret History, but then so are a lot of other books set at some sort of school-away-from-home in which one discovers that not all of the interesting people that one meets are actually nice people. Both are very trope-y books, and I quite liked them both.This one has cleverer plot twists, but telegraphs them a mile away. You'll either pick up on them or you won't, depending on how many mysteries you read. You'll like this if you like people sorting through their own minds to determine what actually happened vs. how they remembered it (as they sort out lies and hidden secrets), but you won't like this if you want something externally focused. It's not a slow book, but it is a very feely one.My only gripe: the wrap-up wasn't as satisfying as it could have been; some of the subplots weren't wrapped up or were just implied when I wanted to see some drama or at least hear how things actually fell out.Recommend for readers of gothics, people who love drama popcorn, and people sorting their lives out post-train wreckage.
1518592704	Не могла відірватися, проковтнула за три дні. тут є все, що миле серцю любителям похмурих головоломок і готичної атмосфери - школа-пансіон на березі озера, розлогі цитати з латини, похмурі сімейні таємниці, незайманки-самогубці і ненезайманки-самогубці, містичні легенди і роздуми про нещасну долю гуманітарія. можливо аж забагато, бо під кінець я відчувала себе, наче переїла десертів. Сюжетна лінія хитро закручена, але десь із середини книжки я вже вгадувала ходи, і під кінець вгадала головну страшну таємницю, тому дочитувала вже з нетерпінням. здебільшого воно видавалося мені історією про те, що американським дівчаткам з робітничих родин нема чого займатися всякими буржуазними радощами на кшталт класичних мов, бо це веде до перверсій і горя. Під кінець, можливо, цей меседж трохи змінюється, але не впевнена. Всі головні персонажі - жінки і другорядні також, чоловіків двоє чи троє, їхня роль дуже функціональна і між собою вони не спілкуються, тобто це просто тест Бехдель доведений ad absurdum
2275877838	I picked this up on a whim at I think either target or a bookstore right before a movie I was seeing. The blurb grabbed me way more than the cover did. This book blends coming of age with mystery and suspense with romance languages and boarding school as a background. I didn't see the ending coming at all and I normally have some inkling in most books.While this was my first Carol Goodman book, it wasn't the last. I pick them up when I see a new one out and always enjoy them. The arts is always different, but you've always got some sort of mystery story with a classical art form as a prominent backdrop
490717682	This is my 2nd book by this author, and I'm very impressed. Her prose is beautiful. This particular book had slow-building suspense. I had the mystery figured out before it was revealed, but that didn't take away from my enjoyment of the book. Will read more books by this author. Highly recommended.
3745188611	this really is dark academia at its finest. the student-teacher dynamic that transcends healthy classroom relationship. the absurd rituals. and teenage dilemmas. i love how this book offered so many mysteries to unfold to the very end.
3397283290	** spoiler alert ** This book unfolded strangely, each layer less nuanced than the last — at its best it is an examination of loneliness and friendship, the allure and danger of adulation, the raw self-loathing of female adolescence. However, in its attempt to remain both unpredictable and intellectual, it loses some of that insight into the complex idiosyncrasies of the adolescent feminine. The need to belong, the fear of loneliness, the willful blindness of love: save someone and they are indebted forever. No one remembers things as acutely and painfully as a teenage girl. No one is so fractured and cruel as a teenage girl, and no one more radiant. Sometimes this message is lost within the mundane, especially in the present chapters of this book. It is in the past that this novel finds its footing, a rich and engrossing chronicle of death and love.A brief non-spoilery summary: Jane Hudson attended Heart Lake in her youth. Her teenage years were spent orbiting the charismatic, beautiful Lucy Toller, her handsome brother Matt and the irreverent, sexual Deirdre. Lucy and Deirdre both committed suicide in their senior year; a concatenation attributed to the sinister mythos surrounding the lake, of sacrifices made to goddesses and dead girls trapped beneath ice. Twenty years later, Jane returns to Heart Lake as a Latin teacher, only to find the past has caught up to her in ways she never imagined.My main issue with this book is that it attempts to address a thousand different things: the drug and sex haze of the 70’s, a murder mystery (which is treated with alarming nonchalance by our narrator), an eerie boarding school whose occupants are governed by mythology, the account of a hapless mother, a sordid romance, pagan rituals and latin declensions, a family tree twisted beyond recognition. The climax - spoiler alert - was so predictable I rolled my eyes; it was melodramatic, unrealistic to the narrator’s development, and seemed kind of like a cop-out. Despite that, I enjoyed it. It was riveting; I finished the book in one night because I couldn’t bear to sleep with all my unanswered questions.I suppose my real quandary with this novel was that it touched too lightly on certain topics; if you’re going to bring a million factors in, be prepared to give them depth and connection. I don’t mind the misleading narrative — I was able to predict the plot twists relatively easily, though I didn’t question how certain events were framed. This leads me to my second issue. Our narrator, Jane, isn’t definitively unreliable but gives the reader a first impression which seems to be leading down an entirely different path. The first chapters are focused on teenage girls and their obsession with death, suicide, self-mutilation. Jane’s past is haunted by a series of suicides. She is a Latin teacher at her old boarding school, surrounded by tragic memories, following in the footsteps of a woman she adored, then sold out. Jane is a good mother, but that’s all I can say in her defense. As a character, she falls flat, mainly because her life revolves around others. She has no discernible personality traits; she’s naive and gullible and solid. Lucy Toller, on the other hand, is brilliant and manipulative to the point of sociopathy, nymphlike, gorgeous, steely. Jane seeks her approval vigorously, throwing herself into Latin studies to please Lucy. She never thinks to question Lucy’s motive for befriending her (a sheep who does as she’s told); she has a schoolgirl’s crush on Matt but never acts on it, possibly out of fear of retaliation. Lucy and Matt are as close as twins, and suffer deeply in the absence of one another. Their interactions with one another, especially their joint suicide, are the best parts of the book; they feel real and terrible, the way this book should have felt. Their dynamic is far more interesting than Jane’s dull observations — she herself admits to being regarded as part of the geography of the school by laughing eighth graders, irrelevant and dismissible.Deirdre Hall is a pothead nymphomaniac who drapes herself in silk scarves and kimonos, rolling joints or stewing tea in their dorm room with the casualness of an adult. She too is not immune to Lucy’s charms and seeks her approval as much as Jane, though she doesn’t compromise her sense of self to do so. She is a great character rendered two-dimensional by a tedious narrator. She is the superstitious one with fanciful ideas of rituals and nudity and heavy drug use. Jane treats her the way one might treat a caged animal: carefully and from a distance. Then there is their Latin teacher, Helen Chambers, an elegant and powerful woman whose bond with Lucy is oddly intimate. There’s Albie, a younger girl fretfully obsessed with Lucy. And Matt, a friendly and intelligent young man. Jane reduces him to nothing more than a girlish fantasy, even as she dismisses his good-looking cousin Roy. Her stupid infatuation is made more irritating by her delusional memories of Matt; throughout the entire book she hints at their romance but we find out Matt barely thought of her at all. His focus was always Lucy.In present-day, Jane if finds herself drawn to three of her students: Athena, Aphrodite and Vesta. That’s what she names them, of course. History repeats itself very clearly and cleverly in this book. Whether that’s due to the magic, genes or simply the fucked-up selfishness of human nature is up to interpretation. The supporting characters are much more interesting than Jane herself.Therein lies the problem with this book: it takes too much on and can’t stick to a storyline that’s cohesive. SPOILER: Goodman throws incest, rape, murder, and schizophrenia into the mix without actually examining any of those things properly. It’s as if she wanted to make the book as dramatic and problematic as she could. I disliked the stupid romance between Roy and Jane — it felt rushed and cheap. Heart Lake remaining open after two murders without extensive security on the grounds makes no sense. Dr. Beuhl is useless; all the other teachers are caricatures and the group of present girls (Athena and co) are tossed aside in favor of a violent but unmeaningful climax. Realistically, Jane should be suffering from immense PTSD, shock, and grief. Her staying at Heart Lake makes no fucking sense... and her returning to it never made sense at all. The magic of the book is dispelled at this point; the presence of the lake as a malevolent or benevolent being disappears. The boarding school, for all that its walls have held, is never taken advantage of as the incredible setting it is. We never find out what drove Lucy — arguably the most interesting character — to the lake, and her relationship with Matt is depicted only through Jane’s unreliable narrative. It wasn’t the novel I expected, and it doesn’t really live up to its comparisons to, say, The Secret History. The prose starts off strong but quickly becomes less highbrow; by the end it sounds like a mystery novel, not bad but most certainly not Donna Tartt.That’s the best way to put it: maybe if Tartt had written this story, she would have done it justice.
6516370530	wow, loved this book! I love books about boarding schools and this book delivered all the goodies. I don't understand why the reviews are all over the place! I think this is the best Dark Academia I've ever read. I loved the mystery and while I had guessed some of what happened , it didn't ruin the story at all for me. The writing was superb.
5517680641	dit boek had zo veel potentie, maar het was het gewoon net niet. het lezen voelde alsof je die bepaalde plek op je rug probeert te jeuken waar je precies niet bij kan, maar je blijft het toch proberen en als je dan uiteindelijk op een of andere manier toch bij die plek kan komen, voelt het nog steeds niet goed. amen.
3652954049	the plot of this book was interesting enough, and I feel like one of the main redeeming qualities of it is that it had so many twists in the story, but unfortunately the twists were pretty easy to anticipate so it wasn’t satisfying when they appeared. the characters were DECENT but not anything to write home about, and the ending, in my opinion, was pretty cheap.
5854653170	Hanni umd Nanni für.Erwachsene,ganz nett zu lesen aber könnte auf die Hälfte gekürzt sein
6343380538	Rounded up to 4.5/5My Original Thoughts (2002):Intricately plotted tale. Absorbing. A bit predictable? No, not predictable, but I did figure out part of the mystery early on, although there were still several surprises. Stayed up late reading. Engrossing.My Current Thoughts:I believe this is the only book that I've read by Carol Goodman. If I thought it was so terrific, why haven't I read more by her? She's written over a dozen thriller/suspense novels, so I have plenty from which to choose.
3355668229	Although I figured out the mystery when I was less than halfway through the book, I still thought it was a compelling and enjoyable read.
2661469908	This book made me groan from start to finish. As someone with a degree in Latin, I was excited to read about a Latin teacher caught up in a potential suicide/murder cult, and especially a book touted as the successor to The Secret History. I was not impressed. There isn't that much Latin in the book, but I think it would be excessive for people who are not interested in Latin, and not good enough for people are. The author always gives translations, but acknowledges that they're sloppy translations with a line like "yes, that's the general idea of the passage." I know it can be difficult to translate into idiomatic English at times, but it makes me think that that's the best the author can manage. Nuances matter.In fact, the Latin had me groaning by the first paragraph. The protagonist, Jane, says: "They like nothing better than a new, difficult declension to memorise", and then the students to recite the first declension. Come on, give us a third declension i-stem, at least.Another thing that made me groan was Jane's repeated inability to recognise her own students by their real names. Sometimes she caught herself using the wrong name "Athena ... I mean Ellen...", but at other times she couldn't remember their real name.'Ellen has [spoiler redacted] ...' I almost ask who? before realising she's talking about Athena.Then two pages later: 'When was the last time you saw Ellen?' 'Ellen?' Dr. Lockhart looks at me as if I've taken leave of my senses and I do just about the worst thing I could do. I laughed. 'It's just that I think of the girls by the Latin names they take. She's Athena to me.'Yet earlier in the book, in conversation with Dr Lockhart, they're both referring to the girl as Athena. In fact, in many conversations they both alternate between calling them by their real names and their painfully wedged-in Classical names. I think it’s pretty unlikely that other staff members would call the students by a nickname that one teacher has for their students.Speaking of which, Jane is strangely obsessed with her students. Maybe it’s just the parallels to her and her friends that she’s seeing, but she’s so preoccupied by them, it’s creepy. Like when she’s watching them swimming at night, staring at them as they stand on the rocks in the nude. Stop looking at them.Some things were not explained well enough and it was distracting. Like initially saying that all dorms at Heart Lake were three-person dorms. Jane shared a dorm with Deirdre and Lucy, but then suddenly Deirdre has a single room across the hall. And then much later in the book, it's mentioned that Lucy and Deirdre are roommates, despite Deirdre still having a single room. Maybe there's a way that this makes sense, but it was never explained.I had a similar issue with The Point. I couldn't get a clear picture in my mind of what this place looked like. It seemed like a high cliff overlooking the lake. Pretty straightforward. But then there's a description of someone standing on the edge of the The Point, and someone else standing on a ledge below her. What? Where did that come from? Then there were descriptions from the perspective of someone hiding nearby and watching them which just complicated things more. I was so distracted trying to figure out the setting that I could barely concentrate on the story.While some things were not explained well enough, other things were flogged so hard. There were times where I thought I had déjà vu, but realised that no, she's just explained this inconsequential detail before. One explanation that "St Eustace" was called "St Useless" in Jane's day is enough, after that, there's no need to repeat it. You can just call it "St Useless" and trust that I remember that that wasn't its real name.Also! The incest/not really incest, multiple generations of illegitimate children adopted out to others which causes identity issues storyline. Ugh. How many times can the same thing happen? I considered giving up on it, but by about halfway through, I wanted to know where it was going. I groaned out loud throughout the last pages. Saccharine, convenient, found-family, eyeroll-worthy, happily ever after nonsense. I'm not buying it. Ultimately: not thrilled, won't be reading this one again, won't be recommending it - unless you're a new author who wants reassurance that your writing is good enough to publish.
6338123484	3.5 stars ish?I predicted who it was lol
398628197	Really, this book deserves 3.5 stars, and if I weren't such a hardcore mystery aficionado, it would have earned 4. Carol Goodman writes with elegance, working in her plot twists with exquisite timing, lacing her narrative with just enough misdirection to make you second-guess your assumptions. Her plotting is Gothic and literate, and were I newer to mysteries or crime, I am sure I would have loved this book as opposed to merely liking it. Alas, and as is always detrimental to my appreciation of any mystery novel, I was completely unsurprised by any of the plot twists. In the last quarter of the book, the author presents us with the rather meta proposition: "[She] once said that the question the reader should ask the narrator of any book is, "Why are you telling me this now?"" In Ms Goodman's own case, I presume her pacing/telegraphing is due to a sense of wanting to play fair with the armchair detectives reading along, giving us enough clues to figure things out on our own, in the best tradition of detective novels. Pity that I figured it all out well into the first half of the book, and though it made the roller-coaster lunge of her mystery that much tamer, it didn't diminish my enjoyment of her fine writing at all.
2418715507	I'd like to title this little review "Six reasons why this book made me want to beat the wall with a stick in my sheer fury" :1) I was promised a murder mystery. I was delivered a story that is more about young teens having sex while in deer masks. "We need to perform a fertility ritual!" IN HEAVEN'S NAME, WHY? WHAT IS THE MOTIVE? WHAT REASON DO I HAVE FOR POSSIBLY INVESTING IN THIS?! WHERE ARE ALL THE DAMN GROWNUPS?!2) Paaaaaaainfully obvious "plot twists" and "mystery bad guy." Uggg. Major eye roll. 3) Characters who were just terrible awful no-good people all around.4) A break in the middle of the narrative arc at the moment when the story finally kicks into action.... to go back and recount the narrator's entire backstory. From childhood. Oh. Joy.5) No real emotion throughout. Friend dies? lol whatever. Student tries to kill herself? haha let's be a good teacher and ignore that. Come on!!!6) Icky ickyickyICKYICKYICKY sexual relationships that make you 100000000% uncomfortable, AND THEN THE AUTHOR TRIES TO MAKE IT SEEM OKAY. NO.NO.NO.NOOOOOOO.I have read books about cannibalism and did not dry heave as much as I did in this. 1.5 stars for decent prose use, but everything else made me want to drop dead.
2416138523	I love books like this – mystery, intrigue, flashbacks into the past, buried secrets that inconveniently refuse to stay buried, ice storms, pagan rites, deep, dark lakes that call to lost souls… Sigh. Right up my alley!The Lake of Dead Languages has a bit of everything, including (yes please!) an old mansion that functions as a boarding school. There are definite shades of The Secret History (what attracted me in the first place) but it is nowhere near as serious, or dare I say it, academic. I’m also a bit of a sucker for anything that makes use of Latin as a tool to conjure up a certain undertone or mood, same goes for the word Gothic (again, The Secret History, and also Gentlemen & Players, another BRILLIANT book which I have reviewed here somewhere).There is an interesting mixed bag of characters – some likeable, some not (most not), and a past and present narrative that weaves together quite seamlessly. It’s quietly enthralling, darkly sensual, and oozes atmosphere and edginess. I loved it.
2109062317	I stayed up till 1:30 in the morning finishing this. It is sensationalist in a... foreseeable sort of way, but perhaps it's more foreseeable if one's been reading Euripides for half a lifetime. And I don't object to foreseeing a lot of twists and turns! What I valued the most about this book was the way that it cares about diverse women choosing to pursue the life of the mind, for a variety of reasons. The prose is elegantly crafted, and the evocation of landscape is loving and intense. Helen Chambers has been added to the shortlist of academic women of fiction with whom I identify. As described by one of her students: "I had a pretty good idea of the things Domina Chambers would disapprove of: sloppy Latin translations, Lipton tea, synthetic fabrics. But sex with a masked stranger in the woods? I couldn’t tell." Helen Chambers is a woman whose priorities I share. The book's emotional resolution is perhaps artificially complete, but that's likely to appeal to a broader audience, I feel, than the classical devastation it might seem to foreshadow.
1562818237	i really enjoyed reading this book, due to a combination of engaging prose/intriguing plot and my personal history with studying latin. with that being said, it was a bit of a letdown - not only was it at times sloppily edited, i found myself guessing all of the 'shocking' reveals ahead of time, which is an obvious disappointment for anything in the mystery-thriller genre. i think this book suffered from being too ambitious - there were too many layers to the story which resulted in an unsatisfying denouement as everything was wrapped up neatly in an entirely unrealistic manner. i understand why there have been comparisons to donna tartt's the secret history, but i found that the lake of dead languages lacked the naturally magnetic and haunting atmosphere of tsh, resulting in a novel which was good, in my opinion, but not great. 3 stars
97839256	This book made me think of what they say about only being able to read a limited number of books in your lifetime: I was fully aware that I was squandering time I could have spent reading a better written book, and yet I couldn't put it down. The need to find out the truth behind the events of Jane Hudson's past was so compelling that I had to race to the end of the book -- despite all the glaring holes in the plot, the thoroughly predictable identity of the villain (which I figured out about a third of the way through), the confusing array of unsympathetic characters with multiple interchangeable names, and the sometimes repetitive writing. In the end, I kind of resented the novel for making me want to finish it despite all its shortcomings. Just like the lake in the novel, no matter how much I wanted to walk away, I couldn't bring myself to do so.
31259851	This was the first book by this author that I read, and I loved it so much that I went out and bought three others right away. The Lake of Dead Languages is part mystery, part coming of age and all good. Somewhat dark, it tells a convincing tale of teenagers and their draw to things that can be dangerous...and even deadly. Told from the perspective of a young woman who survived the tragedy of the suicide of her two best friends at a prominent private school, she later goes back to that school as a teacher. Only now, years later, young women are turning up deal all over again... apparently by thier own hand.Dark and riveting, this book was excellent.
1568628689	So I’ve been listening to this book while working and, even half distracted, I guessed every turn nearly from the start. So the mystery tension really did not exist.Also, Jane’s about as mad as [redacted], right? Still as obsessed with a teen she had a crush on 20 years ago? I get that trauma can stunt emotional development but, come on.And Roy? What he did and what he choose not to do? THAT’S the romantic interest?And the school? How? HOW is it still open? But I do love my dark boarding school books so, 3 stars.
4582516118	2.5 stars. Honestly, Jane Hudson has to be one of the stupidest, most gullible protagonists I've ever come across.
421921366	Un giallo intrigante. Scritto in modo magistrale. Una storia avvincente con dei personaggi ben caratterizzati e davvero singolari.
2249136902	This is a suspense book, and as such I feel incapable of getting into the things I feel about it without spoilers. I'll briefly discuss the rating first and then shout in the spoiler tags. So!Three stars, because I finished the book, despite shouting "I hate this why are you like this" several times near the end. There were genuinely compelling bits of writing, and I wanted to see a resolution badly enough that I stuck it out. The audiobook reader is also very fine, I would listen to other books that she has narrated.(view spoiler)[I got here via a "dark academia with girls" rec list; one of two of the suggested titles that I could find in print (or, well, in audiobook). Is there a lot of Latin, and Classical allusions? yes. poetry? yes. boarding school, the past coming to eat the present, Girl Friendships Gone Terribly Dependent & Wrong, yes. A minor character is a lesbian and talks about her struggle with institutional homophobia? yes.Is it a Bad Mystery? ALSO YES.oh my god there is a soap opera amount of switched babies, dead babies, secret families, incest, murder, and (genuinely creepy but mostly frustrating) that feeling where systems of power leave you desperate with nothing to fight as they threaten your life! But a lot of this is plagued by the old "there's an obvious solution for the reader but the protagonist won't see it and/or will do the worst possible thing" which is just reader-frustrating not tension-frustrating.Is there some Real "I Guess Maybe You Tried This Was The Early 80s Or Something??"* approaches to mental health, where I spent 3 hours going "WHY DID YOU LET THE PSYCHOLOGIST HAVE UNFETTERED AND UNSUPERVISED ACCESS TO THE STUDENT WHO JUST THREW A ROCK THROUGH A WINDOW BECAUSE OF HOW MUCH SHE DOESN'T LIKE THE THERAPIST" and hoping she got stabbed.this is a book where no one knows how to talk about mental health which is painful given how much the book talks about mental healthI have not even gotten started on the bad detective/police practices here, and while everyone is busy blaming themselves for things Roy Cory doesn't even spend a second going "well i baited a murderer using the unknowing protag and then she killed a student with a spear"*wait i'm sorry i just realized this was published in 2003 and therefore has no excuses for ...anythingI did get bloody satisfaction at the end, so, a point for that. But I really cannot recommend this book, unless you like shouting, in which case, there's a lot of things to shout about. (hide spoiler)]
4789335738	In The Lake of Dead Languages, by Carol Goodman, Jane Hudson has returned to her old boarding school as a Latin teacher. Her ex-husband mocked her chances of supporting herself as a Latin major, but fortunately Heart Lake School offers this Old Girl a teaching post with housing for herself and her little girl.Heart Lake School has the typical boarding-school ghost stories, while Jane has her own ghosts. When she was a student, her two roommates both died tragically, and when the story opens, adult Jane still wonders if she could have done more to save them. Jane, her hometown friend Lucy, and their roommate Deirdre, became an inseparable trio, dedicated to their Latin studies and their Latin teacher, Helen Chambers. Now, as the Heart Lake Latin teacher, Jane’s has three very promising students, probably her favorite students. These three girls are roommates and close friends, and also see Jane as their favorite teacher. Then, one of these girls attempts suicide, in the same room and in the same way as Jane’s roommate once did, bringing up everything Jane’s tried to forget and ignore.Despite one colleague who continually brings up the tragedy, Jane is doing about as well as could be expected after such a horrible time in her youth. She’s mostly put it behind her. But the strangely similar events force her to think about that tragic year and what details she might have missed.I went into The Lake of Dead Languages completely blind, so as Jane looked at her memories from her student days, the school’s legends, and the creepy events happening to her own students, I had no idea how these things would relate. Is history repeating itself? Is there truly a supernatural pull in the lake, something that causes generations of young girls to drown? Are the high-strung boarding school girls consciously reenacting Jane’s experiences? For their own emotional drama, or to manipulate their new teacher? Or are these just tragic accidents, and Jane’s just unable to stop reliving her own memories? And this was such a great way to discover this story.full review
3581502194	First of all, I'm so glad I read this book now and not in summer. The setting and atmosphere were perfect for dark, cold winter days. I learned a lot about lakes and how they freeze and about ice and snow and creepy wintry weather phenomenons, and I looooved it! I also really liked the story. I'm a fan of plots consisting of two timelines, a present and a past one, with mysteries that are connected. However, everything about the plot was super predictable. I guessed every single reveal possible far in advance. Most of the time I thought it was more dramatic this way because you saw things coming long before the characters did. Except of the reveal who the villain of the story was. Because this one was SO predictable that I didn't want to believe it and forced myself to find other explanations. Just to be disappointed because it really was the obvious one. At the same time I was furious with the protagonist who was so naive and clueless all the time. On the other hand, the details about what happened in the past broke my heart. Just thinking about how a few lies and misunderstandings and assumptions lead to so much death and drama and heartache. Uff. I wanted to cry during the whole ending. So this book was far from perfect, but I almost gave it 5 stars just because it made me feel so hard... and because the setting was so special.
4005659966	I read a lot of "difficult" and "worthy" books; that is, a quick, engrossing and fun read is not what I typically look for. So picking this book up on a whim because of its connections to Latin and Classical- with-a-capital-"C" Studies, and actually reading it right away, was a rare diversion from my typical habits. It was everything a fun read should be: atmospheric, creepy, suspenseful, etc. Did I solve most of the mysteries fairly early? Yes, I did, and was a little disappointed that the author made it too easy to do so. Nevertheless I enjoyed anticipating those reveals. Did I have one terrifying moment near the end when I thought I was wrong about one key aspect of the plot? Yes, I did, and I tip my cap to Goodman for how she sowed that little doubt. I also found sound literary merit in the novel. The psychological metaphor of the icy lake as the trauma of the past that one immerses oneself in and obsesses over but fails to understand and heal from, is well executed and at times presented with powerfully lyrical prose. I've read other reviews here comparing The Lake of Dead Languages unfavorably to The Secret History by Donna Tartt. Whether it's a matter of mood, timing, memory, or expectations, I don't recall enjoying The Secret History more than I did this book.
4250965250	3.5 se eu for honesta.ODIEI as últimas páginas e por mim elas não existiriam. Não foi nem o último capítulo em si e sim as últimas 10, 15 páginas.Um thriller que fala sobre amizades tóxicas, mentira, manipulação e "fantasmas que deveriam ter ficado no passado". Me prometeu um suspense e me entregou. Não achei a solução do mistério principal impossível de ser resolvida, mas gostei do desenrolar das coisas.Não vou mentir, eu devorei esse livro, li até enquanto estava escovando os dentes, porque thrillers segue sendo o meu gênero favorito, e como essa história tinha um "que" de The Secret History, fiquei bem intrigada.Vale a leitura, ainda mais se você for fã de dark academia.(ps: pequena - minúscula - representatividade lésbica)(ps: se atentar aos gatilhos do livro, pois fala sobre suicidou, morte, sexo entre menores de idade, drogas, aborto, etc)
7788115953	Beaucoup de plot-twists, étant très perspicace j’ai réussi à en prévoir certains mais d’autres étaient vraiment surprenants et bien pensés. L’histoire aussi est bien et prenante et le cadre donne au livre une atmosphère propre. Petit hic, j’ai trouvé certains passages un petit peu compliqué à comprendre – ceux relatifs aux rites – et plus d’explications sur le pourquoi du comment auraient été les bienvenues. Étant donné le nombre de pages conséquent certaines lignes peuvent paraître ennuyantes voire inutiles mais dans l’ensemble, l’histoire est entraînante et intéressante du début à la fin. Je recommande et j’ai été un peu déçue et surprise en apprenant qu’aucune adaptation en film n’existe
3943731505	Uno di quei libri che vuoi abbandonare ma devi finire per vedere come va.Fosse stato un piatto al ristorante sarebbe stato come quelli pretenziosi e costosissimi, con mille dettagli inutili ma in sostanza privo di un gusto dominante, spesso insipido.Non c'è un personaggio degno di nota a cui potersi affezionare, la protagonista è o terribilmente stupida o ingenua all'estremo. Le ragazzine della scuola sono stereotipi e pure mal fatti. Il cattivo della storia è fin troppo prevedibile ma nessuno lo capisce finché non ci sbatte il naso ed è troppo tardi.L'autrice non riesce ad esprimere emozioni e a farle provare ai suoi personaggi.E mi ha fatto odiare il ghiaccio, non avevo idea che si potesse parlare così tanto di ghiaccio, neve, tempeste di ghiaccio, pioggia che diventa ghiaccio, il lago gelato che si ghiaccia formando il ghiaccio che si rompe e poi torna ghiaccio. Il prossimo libro lo ambienterei in estate fossi in lei anche se potrei già immaginare il risultato.Non commenterò l'intreccio terribile che si svela nel finale, degno di 30 anni di puntate di Beatiful, non ho nemmeno fatto lo sforzo di comprendere chi era figlio, nipote, figlio illegittimo o adottato. Mi sono arresa prima.
4522859578	I am always suspicious when a book claims to be on the level with The Secret History (because let’s be honest, no other dark academia book will ever be as good as the secret history), but this one came pretty close.I loved the setting of this story, and how the school and the lake were almost portrayed as characters in the drama themselves. I was also a huge fan of all the classics references from different Latin literature, and how those “dead languages” revealed so much about those girls who died. This was a gripping thriller, and had me on the edge of my seat by the end!
5182201950	Why are there no dark academia books that are actually about academia? As basically every other murder mystery set on a school campus, this was marketed as ‘the next Donna Tartt’ or something and don’t get me wrong, I liked this book. But it has nothing to do with academia. Quoting the Aeneid or Yeats is not enough! Give me Dark Academia that is about the actual complex of education, give me dark academia that analyses and critiques the current systems. Or just don’t call your book the next Secret History. Honestly, the only book to actually continue TSH’s legacy is Babel. Anyway, it was still a solid mystery, and I guess I can give props to the incorporation of Latin and musings on the Aeneid and sexuality in poems of Catullus. It’s a good start.
4666301436	Slow to start, but worth the trip. I read this during an Upstate NY winter so I was able to appreciate the atmosphere. Along the same lines as The Secret History (which is much better), there are no heroes in this book. This, together with the unreliable narrator trope, will provide much fodder for discussion in book clubs and cocktail parties.
