36283848	Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason - image from Curtis BrownPrinceton undergrads become obsessed with figuring out the riddles in a five hundred year old book, the Hypneratomachia. The obsession was not new with them. It had puzzled researchers for hundreds of year, in particular the parents of two of the students. The puzzling is interesting. The intrigue of battling scholars and murder on campus is tedious, and the description of campus life and the protagonist’s romantic entanglement are mostly annoying. I found myself practically skimming some passages. I also never quite got the main buddies straight, Which one is talking now? This contributed to a feeling of “who cares anyway?” But, given that I often found myself reading at odd times, like while walking from one end of a subway platform to another, there must be something compelling about the book. There is much payload on ancient learning, and the info about Savonarola and the conflict in Florence between the humanist intellectuals and the church is very interesting, I hesitate to give this a full thumbs up. Let’s say I find the obvious youth of the authors a barrier, but there is enough there to sustain interest, and enough payload to make the trip worth while.
2941504	This book was billed as a more intellectual version of The Da Vinci Code, and while I suppose it is essentially that, I honestly did not enjoy it as much as I enjoyed Dan Brown's book. The story is about a Princeton student who inherits from his father an obsession with an ancient text called the Hypnerotomachia, purported to contain directions to a vault of treasure.Unfortunately, less than half the book was really devoted to the treasure hunt itself, with the remainder consisting of too-extensive background stories about the main characters and the ways in which they grew apart as they got older. Don't get me wrong; this is a perfectly valid thing for a story to be about. I just personally wasn't nearly as interested in these fairly generic characters going through fairly generic experiences at college as I was in the deciphering of a mysterious text. And it's definitely not just any college; it's PRINCETON. The book reminds you of this left and right, to the extent that in the end you feel like half the reason this book exists is that the authors really wanted to brag about how great Princeton is and how great they are for having gone there.All in all, the book carried my through to the end, and the Da Vinci Code-like sequences in which the characters unraveled the text's mysteries were entertaining. Those were just too few and far between for my liking.
388362435	I enjoyed it a lot! It leaves a pleasant aftertaste like a good walk through an orchard. Is a bit similar to the Langdon series but a bit different in its languid pace of the plot.DD 2017 A reread! Q:Like many of us, I think, my father spent the measure of his life piecing together a story he would never understand. (с)Q:A son is the promise that time makes to a man, the guarantee every father receives that whatever he holds dear will someday be considered foolish, and that the person he loves best in the world will misunderstand him. (c)Q:The adventure of our first days together gradually blossomed into something else: a feeling I'd never had, which I can only compare to the sensation of returning home, of joining a balance that needs no adjusting, as if the scales of my life had been waiting for her all along. (c)Q: Hope,... which whispered from Pandora's box after all the other plagues and sorrows had escaped, is the best and last of all things. Without it, there is only time. And time pushes at our backs like a centrifuge, forcing outward and away, until it nudges us into oblivion... It's a law of motion, a fact of physics..., no different from the stages of white dwarves and red giants. Like all things in the universe, we are destined from birth to diverge. Time is simply the yardstick of our separation. If we are particles in a sea of distance, exploded from an original whole, then there is a science to our solitude. We are lonely in proportion to our years. (c)Q: Never invest yourself in anything so deeply that its failure could cost you your happiness. (c)Q:I'd begun to realize that there was an unspoken predjudice among book-learned people, a secret conviction they all seemed to share, that life as we know it is an imperfect vision of reality, and that only art, like a pair of reading glasses can correct it. (c)Q: That was the recipe of our relationship, I think. We gave each other what we never expected to find (c)Q:The only things people can ever know about you are the ones that you let them see. (c)Q: Never mix books and bed. In the spectrum of excitement, sex & thought were on opposite ends. Both to be enjoyed, but never at the same time. (c)Q:Because every desire has its proper object. It means people spend their lives wanting things they shouldn’t. The world confuses into taking their love and aiming it where it doesn’t belong. (c)Q:Time passed, worlds diverged. ... Time is what disperses us.(c)Q: Adulthood is a glacier encroaching quietly on youth. When it arrives, the stamp of childhood suddenly freezes, capturing us for good in the image of our last act, the pose we struck when the ice of age set in. (c)Q:His intelligence was relentless and wild, a fire even he couldn't control. It swallowed entire books at a sitting, finding flaws in arguments, gaps in evidence, errors in interpretation, in objects, far from his own. (с)
96730245	Confession: This book was so dreadful that I was moved to create a new readometer especially for it. Another confession, I never finished this book, it is unbelievably dull. Sure I never got to the end, although several reviews suggest that there isn't really an end anyway but as far as I got it seems to be a pseudo intellectual group masturbation about the wonders of going to Princeton. Quoting as many classics as can be crammed into the storyline (there was a storyline wasn't there?). The whole thing seems to be filled with nonsensical name dropping of classical works, “look how clever we are that we have read this book or seen this artwork”. How on earth this book is a best seller I don't know. Perhaps you have to be a pretentious ex Princetonian to make it worth the read, maybe all the reminiscing about clubs and hallways, galleries and libraries will do it for you. For me I was expecting a story, some pace, a plot some eloquent prose.. you know a book, a novel, a story, entertainment. This was Enid Blyton’s secret seven dragged into adulthood without a plot . To bill this book as the "The thinking man's Da Vinci Code is an insult to just about everyone from Da Vinci to the thinking man and everyone in between. Painfully dull and a struggle to wade through, I rarely give up on a book but this time I have made an exception, utter boring crap and I have better things to do with my time than to wade through it any further. But congratulations are in order, this is the only book to date that I have rated as worthy of only a single star and that because there isn’t a minus on the scale.
2502490998	A warm, satisfying journey of personal growth and discovery!THE RULE OF FOUR is a coming-of-age novel built around a real-life mystery, The Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, a Renaissance book that has puzzled scholars and historians for 500 years. As a literary device, it succeeds quite well but if you're looking for a historical thriller in the style of THE HISTORIAN or THE DA VINCI CODE, you're cracking the spine on the wrong book, I'm afraid!As a result of his academic interest in the Hypnerotomachia, Paul Harris, a Princeton freshman, seeks out the acquaintance of Tom Sullivan, another newcomer to Ivy League university life, whose father was a well-known historian working on the same mystery until the time of his death. Even in real-life, the book contains puzzles, codes and mysteries that seem to defy logic and decryption and Paul and Tom are slowly absorbed and buried under an almost overwhelming obsession to find the solution!In fact, however, the story is not really about a Renaissance literary puzzle at all. And it most certainly is not a thriller or murder mystery! It's actually a well written, warm and gratifying story of personal growth - Tom and Paul's grappling with obsession and their struggles with an academic advisor who seems bent on plagiarizing their work; their acquaintance and burgeoning friendship with Charlie Freeman, an emergency paramedic who has recently been accepted into medical school and Gil Rankin, a stereotypical Ivy League snob who is destined for fame and fortune on Wall Street; Tom's intense but difficult relationship with Katie Marchand that seems threatened at every turn by his obsession with the Hypnerotomachia and his inability to focus on things that really matter; the realistic presentation of undergraduate life at an Ivy League university including hazing, student antics such as The Nude Olympics, variations on hide and seek in the university underground infrastructure, the ominous difficulties of studies, examinations and imposing deadlines and, of course, the endless round of parties and drinking. Ultimately, as happens all too frequently, young men and women reach the conclusion of their life at university and distance simply peels them apart and they move in different directions.While the real point of the story lies elsewhere, the puzzle, supposedly penned by one Francesco Colonna, provides an extraordinarily interesting side-bar - Renaissance history, code-breaking, art and architecture, eroticism and, most fascinating of all, a short, minutely detailed re-creation of Savonarola's brief but brutal religious and moral dictatorship over Florence at the time of the Medici family.Those who seek to shoehorn THE RULE OF FOUR into a niche reserved for historical fiction, thrillers or mysteries are doomed to set it aside unfulfilled. Like THE THIRD TRANSLATION, only letting the book set its own tone and reading it with no stylistic expectations will allow THE RULE OF FOUR's quality and warmth to rise to the surface! Well done, Caldwell and Thomason!Paul Weiss
30019043	"The Da Vinci Code for people with brains." The Independent. Sigh. Yeah. More like a book for anyone who passed English 101 freshman year of college. At least the Da Vinci Code was a page-turner ... an idiotic and predictable page-turner, but still entertaining. In The Rule of Four, it takes 268 pages for two hours to pass. The male protagonists are four college guys who drink wine (yeah right) and watch Audrey Hepburn movies (suuuuuure), and one is such a genius that he can easily translate a 15th century Genovese dialect into English ... which can only be insulting to the reader "with brains" who knows that the Genovese dialect is a language of it's own, incomprehensible to native Italian speakers who live anywhere outside Genova. In the end, this boring story (which actually had great potential by exploring the origins of a mysterious book from 1499) is really just a pseudo-intellectual rag and a snobby history of Princeton University. Blaaaah. It gets two stars for a few interesting insights about love and life, and the one developed character who was a fascinating librarian who only surfaced for ten pages or so. Sucked.
15338010	This book is incredibly creative; I love how Ian takes the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili and creates a compelling story built around history and detective work. If you loved Dan Browns books because you where excited to figure out the clues and solve the mysteries then you will love this book. The story itself included just enough drama to not take away from the underlying teaching of the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili (I’m sorry, once I taught myself to say it once I can’t stop saying it now). This ancient book cloaked in mystery is really what makes this story so good, I found myself doing Google searches on it trying to see the pictures and looking for the clues and trying to follow it as the characters in the story followed it. Overall great book, one in which I walked away from it feeling like I understood a lot more about history and how the human condition affects it.
13263388	I am mystified by the great reviews that this book got...for instance, i believe the nyt said "stunningly erudite," where i think what they meant was "pretentiously psuedointellectual", or, in more common terms, "dull". other people have said that this is similar to the da vinci code, only written well, whereas i would say that it is more of a modern "name of the rose," written by two people who are boring. my only way of understanding the reviews is to think that book reviewers enjoy the constant references to the tweedy eating clubs of princeton, which were likely the last place that they felt that they belonged...of course, my review MIGHT be colored a bit by my overwhelming disdain for all things princeton.
2410297059	There's a reason Steven King recommends never using a word if there is a simpler one that will do. Because, sadly, when authors stretch their readers, and those readers can't quite make the stretching, they end up feeling stupid. Tending to react badly to the experience. Or, overreacting, mostly with negativity. Unreasonably so. This book, from reading through its reviews after I read it, seems to do just that. It's a good engaging read, well written. A detailed story, connecting to complexity and the non-usual. Definitely not going to be everyone's thing. However, personal like or dislike seems to be much confused with the quality of the work itself. I might not personally enjoy something and still be able to recognise and appreciate it as a work of good quality. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be common among reviewers, who assume if they did not like, then it "must" be bad. There is much to recommend the work, form its insight into Princeton University life to the illuminations on renaissance intellectual life. Most of all, it provides insight into Immersion and obtuse interest which can consume some. This might seem removed from our ordinary life, but, through the extremes portrayed in the book, we come to understand any mindset or psychology that can become waylaid by immersion. This can happen with ego, ambition, sex, career, status, or any number of "mundane" obsessions. This book does an excellent job of illustrating those diversive and sometimes destructive distortions of perspective which can result. Not to mention the power of choice, awareness and deliberation. The necessity of character, and how its lack is so consequential. If we look at the book, its story, the characters, from this more abstract perspective the story has much to offer indeed. Well worth the read. My rating standard is more strict than most, just how I started, and like to keep the consistency. This book would have earned a very high 4 stars from me except the ending I felt was weak relative to the rest of the book. It's as if the last part was written by other authors. Still good, but not as potent as the rest.
11890743	I think I once read a more poorly written book. Let me think for a minute.......hmm........er........uh....... No, I guess I was wrong. Many books may suck, but few can exceed this one for true crappiness.
2155787339	While I can't deny that The Rule of Four was well written, I also can't deny that it was a thirteen-hour esoteric, pretentious dissertation on two Princeton seniors obsessed with an ancient text called the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili.This book was a Da Vinci Code wannabe—only the "clues" seemed to appear out of thin air and you'd quite literally have to know everything to figure out the meaning of the obscure references. Instead of searching for and finding clues, Paul apparently had the brain capability of a theoretical physicist who merely had to think long and hard on something and voilà he figured it out!The majority of the book was spent listening to Tom philosophize on his and his roommates privileged lives at Princeton and whine over his relationship with his deceased father. The murder that the summary refers to doesn't take place until the final quarter of the book and there is very little suspense. In my opinion, the summary was extremely misleading..."The Rule of Four takes us on an entertaining, illuminating tour of history—as it builds to a pinnacle of nearly unbearable suspense." No. Seriously. No. The "tour of history", which I would normally find interesting, was so convoluted that it was nearly impossible to follow. And lengthy "fact" recitation does not an "entertaining tour" make.The Rule of Four would have been much more entertaining if it simply focused on the four roommates—all completely different, but coexisting in functional relationships.
6118490	Second time through; still one of my all-time favorites. The prose is elegant and witty, despite being billed in the "literary thriller" genre (think The Da Vinci Code). The characters are rich, deep, and believable, especially Tom Sullivan, the narrator, on whom I think I have a wee crush. His observations on the dangers of loving things that cannot love you back—in his case, books—have stayed with me since I first read this last summer. The Rule of Four reads like a memoir, a careful blend of wit and nostalgia and keen observations, with just the right amount of panache and hope thrown in for good measure. I can never put this book down; I am smitten, yes, again, beyond the telling of it.
3076422859	A debut novel by two Princeton grads, this story has a Dan Brown quality immersing the reader into the Renaissance years while the main two characters work to uncover the meaning of a mysterious book written in 1499. Well researched, paced and developed it engages the reader, raises questions and demonstrates good storytelling. The only fault I can find is somewhat of a let down with the finale. This isn't uncommon with first books though it did diminish the six years of work the authors invested. Regardless, I enjoyed it thoroughly and recommend it to anyone.
966730	the short version: As trashy as you'd expect, with the unfortunate surprise of being almost completely uninteresting. Also, the end of the book thinks it is romanticizing academics, but it's really insulting them. the long version (what I wrote about the book when I first read it): Another Ivy League Education Gone to WasteThere's a small selection of English language books in the lounge at work, and I picked up The Rule of Four the other day. I recalled reading a -- mostly positive -- review of the book when it came out, describing it as a Da Vinci Code-ish novel (although I haven't read The Da Vinci Code), an academic mystery / suspense set at Princeton University, written by two Princeton grads as a way to keep in touch after graduation (which I thought totally dorky, but maybe a little cute). You know those guys that you went to college with, who were maybe a little too articulate for their own good and who were super-excited to be at "X" institution and could enumerate the reasons why, but only in the most intellectually superficial way? (Yeah, douchebag, Schroedinger's cat is awesome.) Yeah, the book is written by those guys. I hate those guys. And while, clearly, people who I might not like if I knew them in person can write some really good stuff (for one, I'm pretty sure that Dave Eggers is the guy at the bar who won't shut up about 'how awesome would it be if we ...?'), these aren't those guys. The book is clubby, pretentious, exceptionalist, shallow, and romantic about life and love in the self-absorbed way that must seem very profound and gratifying for a couple of Princeton guys with not many female friends, but that no one over the age of 24 should be. In short, everything I always assumed about Princeton students but never had proof of. Before. Also, the mystery isn't very interesting.
39103311	Oh, "The Rule of Four." It's been a while since I read this, but I thought about it again when I saw not one, but two copies at my local thrift store yesterday. It came out in 2004.Yes, it's that awesome. This treasure was published on the heels of The DaVinci Code- it was rushed out, and the editing and extremely poor writing style reflect this. Take one member of academia (Tom, a college student!), add a mysterious tome (the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili- it's got codes!), and all of the other people who want to get their hands on this ancient text and have them travel to discover a secret historical mystery. It sounds a bit familiar, doesn't it? The books would have been interesting if it hadn't been for the name-dropping (it's set in Princeton, and they don't let you forget it), the fact that they explain each and every historical and literary reference to the reader, and having to wade through the story with four characters who you never really like. Seriously, I'm guessing these characters are the two writers and their friends, which is a shame because all four are ridiculously pretentious. Reading this book was a chore. There was potential, but not enough to excuse the terrible writing and blatant condescension towards the reader.
395879549	Just before reading this book, I read The Lost Symbol. Before I reached the end, I'd researched the ending. While I sometimes do that with a movie that I don't really care about, this was the first time I'd done it with a book.As I listened to The Rule of Four, I have several books on Audio that I listen to while driving, I was confused by the plot. While I knew that the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili was central to the story, the jumping back and forth in time was odd at times and I couldn't grasp what I needed to care about this old book.Than I reached the end, I smiled not only at the actual ending, but in understanding.The confusion I felt was due to everything being shown from Tom's point of view, who spends almost all of the story being confused by his past and future colliding. So much of his life was filled with a love/hate relationship with the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, that became melded with the death of his father AND a sense of both wanting to finish what his father had started, but not BE his father.As an adult who's lost a parent before 30 [older than Tom was, but in many ways still in a developmental stage], I understood the sense of being torn between who they wanted you to be and who you are...I was saddened when I finished and came over to write the review and saw so many negative reviews. This isn't in the same caliber as a classic, but in my eyes... Dan Brown could learn a thing or two on research from this book.
32687856	Really badly written and poor - how on earth did this get published?
68361355	The comparisons to The DaVinci Code are inevitable, and the substandard copyediting seems to indicate that The Rule of Four was rushed out in order to capitalize on the Dan Brown furor. That the mistakes weren't fixed for the paperback edition is rather puzzling. The reviews do seem overenthusiastic, though it figures that the New York Times would seize on this more erudite text given the opportunity to steer readers from Dan Brown. Overall, this book was less thriller, more bildungsroman, and I appreciated the character development that the authors included. I'm not much for a page-turning thriller, and as I get a bit older I leave less and less of my time for books like this one. That said, I did enjoy it, both the academic puzzle (which challenged me more than Dan Brown's silly apple riddle), and the image of college life. I got the impression that the authors were trying to marry the puzzle of the Hypnerotomachia with the uncertainty that comes with leaving academia behind (or choosing to pursue it as a career) and beginning "real life." I'm not entirely certain that the attempt was a successful one. But overall, it was fairly enjoyable. If you're a confirmed Dan Brown fan for the thrills, this one might leave you cold, because the mystery occupies a relatively small amount of the text. But as a profile of the way that the relationships between fathers and sons and friends and lovers intersect and develop and falter, and the interests that take our hearts and time away from our the people that matter to us, it's a worthwhile read. It's true, though, that for a novel that appears to celebrate academia, there is a real indictment of the system here.
47448439	I am becoming more and more baffled as to what it takes to become a New York Times Bestseller. But basically:If you think books have too much show and not enough tell, if you're looking for a book with pages and pages of inconsequential back story, and most certainly, if you want to see how info dumping can be transformed into a art form, then by all means read this book!I mean, I'm glad two childhood best friends went to college and used their collective degrees to write a book together, but so much of this book was unnecessary to read (there's a reason it's called back story. Some things the author just needs to know to keep cohesiveness, but omits for pacing)and the obligatory romance one-dimensional and disjointed.The thing I remember most from the book is the (of course) random quote that there is no worse thief than a bad book.Amen.In short: the title was more intriguing than the actual book.(I just got The Eight and now I'm afraid to read it because it has a number in its title.)
3190373567	Un libro strano che parte con tanto coinvolgimento per poi scemare pian piano verso una noia quasi mortale. La trama è incentrata su uno studente di Princeton che eredita da suo padre un'ossessione per un antico testo chiamato Hypnerotomachia, che si presume contenga le indicazioni per un "tesoro".Tanti gli spunti interessanti citati: il Rinascimento, il conflitto di Firenze fra umanisti e intellettuali, Savonarola, ma alla fine persi nel vuoto perché, spesso, il filone principale esce dai binari per raccontare d'altro come, ad esempio, una parentesi rosa che c'entra come i cavoli a merenda nella storia e un finale davvero inverosimile. Mi ha dato come l'impressione di voler ricalcare il più famoso " Codice Da Vinci", ma con pessimi risultati.
2832088	I enjoyed this book immensely. The Rule of Four came out around the same time as when the Da Vinci Code was a big deal, and other authors were jumping on the suspense/ historical fiction bandwagon. This was one of those books on that bandwagon. That being said, this is still a good read. The setting is Princeton. Tom Sullivan and Paul Harris are friends that have ties to a 500 year-old Renaissance book they are researching. The research is followed by many surprises, clues, solutions, relationship conflicts, stress, and murder. I couldn't put it down, and it was a lot of fun, and becomes an obsession. There are many twists and turns followed by a good wrap-up at the end of the story. Calwell and Thomason are both young authors with a great future of storytelling ahead of them. Rule of Four rocks!
1384121	Seemed like a pathetic attempt at ripping off Dan Brown's success, which is nothing short of delusional. While I could see why someone would want to recreate that amount of success, I see no point whatsoever in writing something as shitty as he did in order to achieve that goal.Fortunately, this book is better than The Da Vinci Code. Unfortunately, that's really not saying much at all. The twist at the end is actually a doozy, and the concept of the puzzle-ridden text is quite intriguing, but the plot drags for most of the book. References to the obsessed dad and the annoying girlfriend brought the book's momentum to a stand-still at points. I remember being glad I was done with it as soon as I finished.
11659259	I didn't think this book lived up to it's billing. In fact, I'd have to go ahead and disagree with the statement from the publisher: "a brilliant work of fiction that weaves together suspense and scholarship, high art and unimaginable treachery." It was a mystery, yes. It incorporated scholarship, yes. It had moments of suspense. It wasn't really that suspenseful, though. I thought the story actually moved rather slowly. I was interested, but not enthralled. There was also the aspect of believability. I thought the students were acting like grad students when it came to academics and adolescents when it came to their personal lives. Also, I thought the ending was a bit trite.In summary, it's not a bad read, but make sure you go into it with low expectations.
40200516	Touted as a "coming-of-age" DaVinci code, this story of 4 Princeton roommates and their obsession with and struggles to decode a medieval text with major historic ramifications got a bit tedious for me. The complex codes and various ways medieval writers used them was interesting (if indeed they did, haven't researched that part) but I found myself saying more than once, "Who cares?! Just stop stringing me along!"
2626063982	La sinopsis, el comienzo..., cuando todo hacia presagiar que la novela brillaría, se apagó. Durante momentos fugaces mostraba su potencial, pero finalmente prometió bastante más de lo que (me) ofreció.
816148519	I was going to write this review in a form of a rap freestyle battle. There's so many put downs to hand out to this book and I have little motivation to write them in long form. Something's are so bad their funny and you have to experience them. Trust me, this book is just BAD. Few brief points:It's a novel written by two people, which is bizarre. This is obvious throughout the book and the whole plot never flows. It just feels full of compromises between the authors.Also I have never read a novel so elitist or up its own anus. The lead characters may as well be David and Boris at Eton. The character smugness is intolerable and not in an ironic way like a Bret Easton Ellis novel. Also the prestige and brilliance of Princeton University (where it's set) is mentioned throughout. I wouldn't be surprised if the authors went there and are just using this book as a 400 page roundabout way of bragging about this.It's a Da Vinci Code rip off but the back makes it sound really good. Whoever wrote the back, they should get royalties for this book.This is the only book I took on a camping trip for 2 weeks. I don't have many regrets in life but this was one. It was like a ghost in my tent which needed exorcising. Giving me shudders everytime I woke up and saw it. I still didn't finish it on the camping trip often averaging about 5 pages a day and that was torture. I often preferred to stare at the grass. Once I remember my friend saying 'you've been on page 108 for the last 3 hours, Chris'. I stared at him vacantly, glazed over.Finally, I did finish this book just to get out my life. I didn't give it to a charity shop as didn't want anybody else to suffer this literary turd. I tied it to to a brick and chucked it off a bridge. Extreme it may sound but it was the only way to truly exorcise it out my life.To sum it up, The Rule of Four is the worst book ever.
53190804	** spoiler alert ** I enjoyed reading the book. I found that the ways the authors solves the mysteries with different puzzles was clever. I give the book a 3 out of 5. There were many negative reviews about the book but that’s probably because they’ve read a lot more books than I have. This book is suitable for people that don’t do a lot of reading and reads slow. I found that the characters of the story were “lifeless” and only spent their time on studying the Hypneromachia. The conversations that the characters have also seem to be monotone and unexciting. There were not many deep conversations between any of the characters except near the plot when they entered Vincent Taft’s office. It was an easy read but really slow paced and I lost interest in reading when the characters don’t solve a riddle. The book did contain some fascinating factors. The Hypneromachia was a good addition to the book; it gave the characters something to study about. The way the 4 characters solved the riddles was quite repetitive and boring when it came to them writing down different patterns from the text. The attention came to me when they actually solved the riddle and explained what kind of techniques they used. The characters were enlightened by how the messages were hidden, so was I. I found that many reviews said it was much like “The Da Vinci Code,” but it was far from it. I have read The Da Vinci Code and it was a far more complex book and was composed with much more thought. The ideas in this book could have been more developed to give a better time for the reader. I would say this book is high school version of it.“The Rule of Four” is a jumpy book. It goes through some boring events then to a slow plot. It had some captivating parts but most of it was a bunch of random ideas put together.
75279915	Again another novel that falls victim to media hype..It is unfair I feel to compare this novel to the Davinci Code. It is not the DaVinci Code and in so comparing the two sets up the reader for a certian expectation that falls very wide of its mark. This novel is much less concerned with "thrilling" the reader than gently bringing the reader into the world of four friends from Princeton. It is reminiscent of Donna Tartt's novel Secret History with it's focus on college students, their friendships and eccentric academics who have no morals. But the storyline is where the similarities stop because the writing pales in comparison to Tartt's. So what is this novel about? It is a story about four college friends and their relationships. In the background the reader is led into the strange world of Paul who's years at Princeton are just about over and his all consuming project of deciphering the hidden meaning of the ancient text of the Hypernotomachia is drawing to a thrilling conclusion. What ensues is somewhat engaging as we follow Paul's progress interspersed with boring recollections from Tom about why he should not fall prey to the obsession of the Hypernotomachia. The reader is treated to several really exciting chapters that involve the actual solving of the riddles and the thought processes and physical ravages their obsession with solving the riddles bring on them. In the end, this book is plagued with mediocre writing, a slow moving plot and a less than stellar ending and it is on the best seller list....I guess you never know.
81682946	Great book about four friends that takes place, somewhat unbelievably over two days. The main story line follows two guys in particular trying to figure out a book, the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili. The book is not about that in the truest sense of the word though. I believe anyway that it is more about the four friends; Tom, Paul, Gil, and Charlie. It is about their friendship and thus spends an inordinate amount of time developing their characters and the inter-personal relationships between them all. The book was a great book and I'd recommend it to anyone. The most amazing thing about the book was the amount of background information in the book that is true. A statue of Moses with horns and the reason Michaelangelo created it as such. The actual existence of a book the Hypnerotomachia though the actual book seems to be a little different from how it is construed in the book. The nude olympics at Princeton even down to the different buildings, which isn't entirely surprising since one of the authors graduated from Princeton. This fact about the book made the book that much more exciting after reading it. For just picking this up in audio format to listen to on a long drive home and not knowing a thing about it, a great book.
162517572	I have to say; I should have listened to my mom. She was right, it is a bad book. Well maybe bad is to harsh, but uninteresting then. Nothing happens, at least Dan Brown knows how to pace the story, reel in the reader and set up riddles that even normal people could solve with a little thought.But the plot of this book took place over two days that seemed like an eternity, the story was mostly the protagonist whining to himself how he screwed everything up and how he misses his daddy. And the actual mystery was not revealed with great care, it was just: "Oh look heres what it says in Latin, wait I'm a pretentious jerk I'll quickly translate it to English". And i took Latin in high school, it was boring as hell, so kudos to anyone who bothered to learn it, but the book just comes of as douchy with its "know it all" attitude (yes books can have attitudes).The plot, which seemed exiting on the back cover, turned out to be the least of the book. It was instead filled with selfpity and douchebaggery. And so i am proud to announce that this is, so far, the worst book of the quest.I am sorry i didn't listen mom.Well on to new book adventures in my 2011 book quest: http://denmarkianandtuba.blogspot.com/
1407164232	1. Σε καμία περίπτωση το βιβλίο αυτό δεν θα μπορούσε να είναι το αποτέλεσμα της συνεργασίας των Φιτζέραλντ, Έκο και Μπράουν (όπως γράφει το οπισθόφυλλο), παρά μόνο αν και οι 3 ήταν στο ναδίρ της έμπνευσής τους. 2. Δεν καταλαβαίνω γιατί είχε δημιουργηθεί τόσος ντόρος όταν είχε πρωτοκυκλοφορήσει. 3. Δεν αντιλαμβάνομαι τους λόγους που το συνέγραψαν οι 2 συγγραφείς: για να γράψουν ένα βιβλίο μυστηρίου, ή για να γράψουν ένα βιβλίο σχετικά με τη ζωή των φοιτητών στο Πρίνστον; 4. Οι λύσεις των προβλημάτων και των κωδικών που περιέχονται στο βιβλίο είναι εύκολες και ανυπόστατες, και σε καμία περίπτωση δεν προσομοιάζουν την περίτεχνη χρήση τους από τον μετρ του είδους, Νταν Μπράουν. Γενικά ένα βιβλίο που δεν έχει να προσφέρει τίποτα το νέο ή το ιδιαίτερο στη σχετική βιβλιογραφία και κατατάσσεται άνετα στα αδιάφορα και τετριμμένα του σωρού! (3/10)
5179605804	Contains SPOILERS. This book promised so incredibly much, but fizzled out spectacularly. Still enjoyable, in a way that beer that lost the bubbles but is still cold can be enjoyed. But all the intrigue, mystery, musings about the nature of time.... it was all for naught. It developed in such a manner that I thought natural continuation would be discovery of a portal or time machine, going back to key points in their life and explore the alternatives. But nothing of that happened. Now that I think about it, I'm still not sure what exactly did happen, if anything. All said and done, very unusual book that's hard to categorize.
1453079367	I read this book as soon as it was released and quite liked it, but I don't remember much about it.
2734539699	A good mystery overall.I enjoyed the mix of characters and felt invested in them. The time switches were not particularly well integrated, but they were necessary for character development. I really liked the idea of the story - a hidden message in an old book and the struggle to decipher it. It was a bit far-fetched to think that two college seniors were able to decode what many experienced professors could not.
6741652398	Este livro é O código Da Vinci, se O código Da Vinci fosse bom.
93415967	I give this book a so-so. This book holds a lot of potential. The whole story about another mysterious story is creative. Talking about a book that holds so much cipher, mysteries, messages, riddles, and a dark secret waiting to be revealed by the readers is really intriguing. The first 100 pages of the Rule of Four was a killer, it bored me to death. It almost had me sleeping. The talk about the ancient book at the beginning really irritated me. They used so many terms from the history of Italian Renaissance and archaic literature. They were like Greek to me, when crossed with those words it creates some difficulty to understand, for example during Vincent Taft’s lecture, “Why eighteen pages on a temple of Venus or twelve on an underwater labyrinth.” Nevertheless this book was incredibly intriguing once I got pass the first 100 pages. The story started to move, thrillers started to take flight. Mysterious of the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili starts to unfold. There was so much tension; I wanted to know what the secret behind Francesco Colonna, why he wrote this book in ciphers. I couldn’t put the book down, I wanted to read the next message Colonna had installed for the readers of the Hypnerotomachia. About 300 pages into the book, you realized there were no more messages from Colonna, and then the book started to drag. It was like the thriller plane had a crash landing, I was dawned with disappointment. Due to the dragging plot line, it made Colonna’s treasure, Renaissance’s secret hardly seem worth the trouble. The ending was in such a rush to wrap things up, it made me feel disappointed. Even though I was disappointed in the ending, to be honest it was unexpected. Personally at the end of the book, I question myself. Did I learn something? The answer is, yes I did. I learnt about a portion of the Italian Renaissance’s history.
1428896479	According to the acknowledgments at the end of this book, it was nearly six years in the making. I would never have guessed.I stumbled on The Rule of Four thanks to a reference in Lynn Picknett and Clive Prince's The Forbidden Universe, in which it's listed alongside Arturo Peréz-Reverte's The Club Dumas and Roman Polanski's film adaptation, The Ninth Gate.A few pages into The Rule of Four I began to have misgivings. At the halfway mark I was ready to give up. I forced myself to keep reading. I wish I hadn't.The narrative is clumsy and the characters unsympathetic. The protagonist, if such there be, is not the mysterious Hypnerotomachia but Princeton University. For someone who has never visited the institution, the endless details soon grow tedious.I presume the authors began with the unsolved riddle of the Hypnerotomachia and then tried to wrap it in a story of obsession and greed set in and around the Princeton campus. The wrapping is as thin as tissue paper and applied with such a heavy hand that the Hyperotomachia all but disappears, only to break through in one of the most feeble endings I've read in a long time.I see that other reviewers have compared The Rule of Four with Dan Brown's work. Maybe the perceived similarity is what pushed The Rule of Four into the best-seller rankings. I can't think of any other reason.
63536247	Action, adventure, thought, plot and grammatically correct sentences - what a nice alternative to the many badly written stories tales of codes, history and ancient mystery.At the center of "Rule of Four" is the Hyperotomachia Poliphili. Five centuries old, filled with violent drawings and a nearly inscrutable plot, this book has long fascinated academics who know of one simple message encoded in the text and who wonder at its deeper meaning. Along comes Paul, a Princeton undergraduate, who seems born to attack this mystery.But as Paul's work proceeds, his work threatens the careers, romancess and friendships of those around him. And then people start getting killed, and we find ourselves with two mysteries on our hands. What does the book mean? And who is behind the violence?I heard about this book a few years ago through my high school alumni network - authors Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason were two years ahead of me in school. It didn't interest me at all. But when my dad discovered it and recommended it as a "smart Davinci Code" I decided to give it a chance. I'm glad I did.This isn't the deepest, greatest book ever written, but it is an enjoyable book, well written, and a fun, fast read. I'm sad to say that smart, fun novels seem like a rare commodity these days.
80753458	It's Easter at Princeton. Seniors are scrambling to finish their theses. And two students, Tom Sullivan and Paul Harris, are a hair's breadth from solving the mysteries of the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili—a renowned text attributed to an Italian nobleman, a work that has baffled scholars since its publication in 1499. For Tom, their research has been a link to his family's past—and an obstacle to the woman he loves. For Paul, it has become an obsession, the very reason for living. But as their deadline looms, research has stalled—until a long-lost diary surfaces with a vital clue. And when a fellow researcher is murdered just hours later, Tom and Paul realize that they are not the first to glimpse the Hypnerotomachia 's secrets. Suddenly the stakes are raised, and as the two friends sift through the codes and riddles at the heart of the text, they are beginnning to see the manuscript in a new light—not simply as a story of faith, eroticism and pedantry, but as a bizarre, coded mathematical maze. And as they come closer and closer to deciphering the final puzzle of a book that has shattered careers, friendships and families, they know that their own lives are in mortal danger. Because at least one person has been killed for knowing too much. And they know even more
39953312	This could have been a really good book. It was slow until about two-thirds the way through the book then it gets really exciting and then it drops off. The conflict is never resolved and the main character is frustrating and a little too dramatic for a guy. He is all obsessive about every aspect of his roommate's lives almost like he is in love with them. His feelings for his girlfriend who is supposed to be in love with are really erratic and unstable. And in the end he is a total jerk to her and she is always stuck waiting for him to figure out what he wants. Which he never does and probably never will. There are too many thoughts that get started in this book but are not seen through to completion. One scene where they are at a ball sort of dance and his girlfriend looks fabulous and he is overwhelmed by her cleavage and is ready to commit his whole life to her then in breaks his roommate interrupting what would have been a passionate kiss. He is immediately distracted and doesn't even bother with what happens to her when the building starts on fire. The book didn't go deep enough to leave all those hanging questions for the reader to fill in.
50056923	An entertaining potboiler with two main problems:(1) The prose is terrible: pretentious and windy. The authors typically end each chapter with chin-stroking fluff that almost makes you want to put the book down each time. Or at least thumb ahead. The plot is decent enough - I could see this being made into an entertaining summer movie.(2) We never really learn anything about the mystery book, the Hypnerotomachia, which is a missed opportunity. The authors have constructed an elaborate puzzle balanced on top of actual scholarship. But the authors hold all the cards, so what we get is a big "historical what if."Still, despite a terrible ending, I thought this was a step up from Dan Brown's books. There are no silly global conspiracies, just academic warfare, and the characters are somewhat believable (if often irritating).
54698872	I started reading it because it was laying around the house and I was put off by the hype long enough. I've gone through several phases of response as I read it. At first I was surprised that it seemed not that bad, actually readable. After 50 pages, I wondered what ever happened to book editors. These boys need to tighten up their prose. If one more simile arose before me like an unexpected obstacle on a familiar road, I'd throw the book at the wall. Everything does not have to like something else. Sometimes snow is just snow. At 100 pages someone finally gets killed. Hope arises. But no, it just continues on and on with its graduation angst at Princeton. At 200 pages it just settles into becoming boring. Even the secret of the book hardly seems worth the trouble. I finished it because I didn't have anything else to do while commuting.
2630765732	This book starts off promising enough but loses it at about 100 pages in and still no murder. There are a lot of Princeton references that aren’t really necessary to tell the story and the authors are clearly keen to show you how well read they are. I’m not a fan of the Da Vinci Code, but I prefer it to this.
1979030635	Tempo sprecato. Una mediocre esposizione storico/artistica sprecata.Inutile.
3395351678	This is an interesting mystery that carries a number of threads. Best was the one concerning Renaissance literature and art produced in Florence, Italy. Even so, the story is built around the process of solving a five-hundred year old book from that amazing place whose meanings are hidden in riddle upon riddle.The book isn’t the only mystery though as it has become disconcerting to the several people who over the years and up to the present in the book who’ve been unable to figure it out. Like chasers of all matter of artifacts through history, obsession over the book has people doing some awful things to each other. Not because of the book’s physical or collector value but the fact that they want to be the first to tell the world what it signifies.It comes down to a couple of brilliant college students at Princeton who take their shot at it. Will they unlock the book’s enigma? Will they go mad if they don’t find the essence of the book? Or will they be destroyed by a book that seems to exert a half-millennium of painful resistance against its truth seekers.
5291495352	Un giallo molto avvincente con una storia intrigante e interessante ! scrittura lineare e chiara, unica nota negativa è che a volte il passaggio tra racconto presente e aneddoti del passato è un po’ confusionario, per il resto la storia si segue facilmente e con interesse !
6358794752	A massive disappointment. It was billed as a DaVinci Code like thriller. It was far from it. It rambles onward to the land of boredom.
2697369309	Story was fine. Writing style not for me. Could have done with a female character or two, since women actually exist in the world.
2091372251	We were rushing off somewhere else when we called at the library to change our books so I grabbed this one off the shelf rather quickly. The blurb compared it with Umberto Eco, but it also compared it with Dan Brown. There was no time to look for another, however, so I just took it and hoped for the best. When we got home my son, who had worked in a bookshop, recalled that it had been compared a lot with Dan Brown's books about 12 years ago, so I was prepared for the worst, but was rather pleasantly surprised. Umberto Eco it isn't. I gave five stars to Foucault's Pendulum, and one star to The da Vinci code, but i think this one warrants three=and-a-half. The rule of four is about four friends, final year undergraduates at Princeton University, two of whom are majoring in literature, and one of them, Paul Harris, is studying the Hypnerotomachia while another, the narrator, Tom Sullivan, is the son of a student of the same book, though he himself is working on Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. It appears that the Hypnerotomachia, is a real book about Poliphilo's dream struggle for the love of Polia, so it's not a fictional one like the one mentioned in The da Vinci code, which my son said people kept coming into the book shop to ask for, and would not believe him when he told them it was a fictional work in a work of fiction. Even when I got to the end of this book, however, I found it difficult to pronounce the title. Paul Harris believes that the Hypnerotomachia contains a secret code, and much of the plot of the book is devoted to discovering what it is, which I suppose accounts for the similarity with The da Vinci code, but it is not nearly as facile as the latter. The plot also involves academic rivalries which lead to murder, and at some points that is rather unconvincing, and the narrative seems to jump about rather inexplicably. It none the less kept my interest to the end, even though some parts seemed rather implausible. The book has several illustrations in it, and it would have helped if a map of the Princeton campus had been included among them. I find I rather like books of this genre -- books about literary studies of other books, or authors, where there was some mystery about them that needed to be solved. There didn't seem to be a list for that genre, so I created one, and hope others will add similar books to the list, so I can add them to my to-read list.
45468501	Overall - 3/5 : Just for Fun.Plot - 3/5 : Nothing great, but narrated great. 4 college students stand by each other when one of them is determined to break the code and secrets of a 15 century book called - Hypnerotomachia Poliphili.Writting - 4/5 : Good, discovered and improved my vocabulary. Good art of writing, at least from my point of view.Heroes - 3/5 : Tom Sullivan (narrator - he got nothing to do but narrate), Paul Harris (does most of the work), Charlie and GilVillan - 3/5 : Egostic.Description - 4/5 : The authors have chosen certain parts of this ancient book and have come up with good explanation. Personally, i feel like they could have taken more parts and explained, but what they have already done is very good. The dream palces and characters are well described.Violence - 3/5 : Tortures and killing of middle age. Not rated R if you already know what happened during that period.Romance - 1/5 : No depth. Just to show the college life, romance comes and stays for a while. Philosophy - 4/5 : Learned few good meaning. Read it to discover them.Art - 5/5 : I alwyas love the discussions about ancient painting. A lot is talked about here. I was happy to discover them.History - 5/5 : I did not know there existed a 15th century book whose secrets (if at all there were) no one has found or really understood the book. I spent sometime on internet (mainly wikipedia), on this book and found it interesting. Also, I am going to Visit the moses statue in Italy.References - 4/5 : Hypnerotomachia Poliphili and painting. Middle age europe.Humour - 1/5 : None. Dialogues - 2/5 : Not that much, but fills some pages.Characters - 3/5 : Not those which could be remebered. More could have been done to make them interesting.Positive - A good Conspiracy book, if you are into reading such genre. Negative - Jumping from the past to present and then to past was a bit too much for me. Could have avoided it.Comments : A good vaction read. (I am amazed to state that most of the consipiracy books I had read were during my vacation)What I learned from this book : Not all that glitters is gold.
4435280	The Rule of Four has often been likened to two other novels; Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code and Donna Tartt's The Secret History. In my opinion, both of these comparisons are misplaced. Fans of the former are likely to think this book slow-paced and unexciting; devotees of the latter may find the narrative voice somewhat shallow and the writing less accomplished. If, however, you choose to enjoy the book on its own merits rather than pitting it against others, it's much more satisfying. The first few chapters are unpromising; so much so, in fact, that I considered giving up on the book altogether after reading them. But I persisted, and was pleased to discover that once the story has found its feet, it improves massively. The academic content makes it an intelligent read, without rendering it dry or hard to enjoy. The style of writing isn't exactly perfect, but there are moments when the authors come into their own, particularly when describing the emotional complexities of friendship. It's most certainly not without flaws; some segments are poorly written, the characterisation is patchy, and (most off-puttingly for me as a female reader) the descriptions of and references to women frequently appear sexist and are mildly offensive. Their only purpose in the narrative seems to be to reassure the reader that the unusually close relationship between the male protagonists, Tom and Paul, is nothing more than platonic. It's a shame that such an intelligent novel has to concern itself with this, or resort to such crude tactics. The Rule of Four is cerebral without becoming bogged down in historical detail, has moments of excitement and drama, and (in parts, at least) is assuredly well-written. It's not a rollercoaster ride of an adventure, nor a literary masterpiece; but if you don't expect too much from the novel, it's simply a captivating, enjoyable read - flawed, but not without charm.
946844318	I first read this book right after it came out, back in 2004. It was a year after Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code, and it was a time in publishing where it seemed as if every other book that came out, was trying to go for the literary/intellectual thriller. I don't think they were possible to get away from that year, if you read books, you probably read at least one of them. The Rule of Four was one of the few that grabbed my attention when I was pursuing the new release shelf at the library. I checked it out, and had it read all in the same day.I'm not going to decry The Da Vinci Code, because of all of Dan Brown's books, that one is my favorite, but lets face it, Dan Brown is great at one thing, writing fluffy, cotton candy books. There is nothing wrong with that, sometimes you need something that is just pure entertainment, and he is great at it. What I respect about Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason, is that they wrote an entertaining book, but didn't populate it with one dimensional characters who don't evolve and have almost no true relationships with each other. Their characters are fully functioning, three dimensional constructs, they could be any of us, if we were obsessed with obscure texts and had men being killed around us.This is a smarter book than anything Dan Brown has written, and it has a lot more personality to it. Instead of trying to write a clever book, that showed off their research skills, the author's chose to write a book that gave us an interesting mystery, but actually told a story. The Rule of Four is not just about the search to unearth the truth about the Hypnerotomachia, it's the story the men who have devoted their lives to it. It's the story of how obsession can quickly turn into something so dark and twisted, that it robs men of their sanity, and their lives. It's the story of the interpersonal relationships and how fragile, or strong, they can be in the face of adversity and love. At it's core, it's a story of friendship, and the ties that bind us together, even when we may not want to be tied to that person.
569778204	I was curious about this book with the fact that it is being compared to Dan Brown and Umberto Eco. I bought a copy at BookSale for only 105 Php...piled it in mah collection for months...and decided to read it last Halloween. Jeez! Why didn't I read it right away?In Brown's Angels and Demons, it's Science Versus Religion.In The Da Vinci Code, it's Facts Against Religion.In The Rule of Four, it's ART VERSUS RELIGION.Gawd, who would have thought about that? I mean, most of the paintings and mga statues reflect religious messages...but may mga hidden messages gali? I love it!The difference with Dan Brown...the setting of the novel is within the borders of Princeton...the characters are the students and professors. But imagine...crimes cound happen within the campus...and intellectual discussions! Gawd...readin The Rule of Four reminds me of my life in NOSHS. LOL. I mean, everyday, you discuss about Newton, Botticelli, Aeschyllus, Euripedes, Freud...sighs...Okay, for a brief background. The Rule of Four is about two students named Paul and Tom whose fates are entangled with a 500 year old undeciphered book Hypnerotomachia Poliphilo (in English "Poliphilo's Struggle for Love in a Dream"). Scholars misunderstood the text of the book for many years. Paul needs to decipher the message of the book...while Tom helps him being an unfinished business by his father who was also entangled with the book.The real adventure is the solving of the riddles. It's like treasure hunting without moving from a spot. In the end, the two students discovered a way of reading the secret...through the RULE OF FOUR. Gawd...discover it for yourselves.I just love the ending. Any sequel?
466168220	Maybe I should compose a nonsensical piece of literary mumbo-jumbo with no foreseeable solution unless someone were to spend thousands of hours, spend all the money they have, lose any chance of a normal life, and risk life and limb to find the "solution". And even then.....maybe I STILL won't give him all the answers. But surely, the fact that such an article exists means its contents MUST be worth it (ground breaking and nothing the world has seen before.) Right? Not really. I was more inspired by the message of "Monsters Inc." then I was by the Hypnermachiaiefief.... or however the heck you spell/pronounce it. That it was sought after so vehemently by the characters in this book never made sense to me. RULE OF FOUR may have had all the nuances of the Dan Brown treasure hunt, but where Dan Brown delves into the mystery that is the spirituality of human kind, this novel only delves into some narcissist's bizarre belief about....this and that. And the main characters... well, unless I reading A Separate Peace or watching Dead Poet's Society I really don't care that much about how four (or was it five) adult men who live together spend every second or how they all met. It had nothing to do with the overall plot. It was just filler. There were some parts of this book that were indeed interesting, and the writing when not bombastic was pretty good. So it gets 2 stars instead of 1. But truly, I wish I hadn't wasted so much time reading it.
129757746	I enjoyed this book immensely, even though it has its flaws and was at times quite demanding. In some sense, the Rule of Four is itself a bit like the renaissance text, the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, whose interpretation is at the centre of the plot, in that it presents something of an intellectual challenge to the reader. The novel is definitely more cerebral and literary than the Da Vinci Code, and I think this is one reason why The Rule of Four has come in for such criticism (largely unjustified, in my opinion) from some people who were expecting a similarly easy ride. Forgive me for saying this, but I detect a large amount of anti-intellectual malice from some of the negative comments about this book; there is simply no way that this book deserves 1 out of 5 stars, and for those reviewers who made claims along the lines that this was the worst novel they'd ever read in their life, all I can say is that they mustn't have read many books.I found the writing rich, evocative and erudite. There was an immediacy and urgency in the way the novel was written, and perhaps this effect was created by the significant usage of the present tense. One minor flaw was the excessive amount of detail relating to the various Princeton eating clubs, but this did not significantly detract from the novel. I won't forget this novel, and feel enriched by reading it. The two young authors have written something of which they can be very proud.
150107324	I picked this one up completely randomly (you would think with a "To Read" list as long as mine I could actually manage to knock some of those off, instead of pulling things from the library shelves based solely on cover art) but anyway, my high rating results from the fact that I went into this with no expectations. If I had known it was a "phenomenal" best seller, and with the inevitable comparison to The DaVinci Code, I might have judged more harshly. But as it was, I found it an enjoyable ride.I think the authors flirted with some off-putting habits (lengthy exposition, unbelievably convenient plot points, and an extremely unrealistic time frame, to name a few) but never went all-in with those, so that I found myself inclined to be forgiving. I liked the narrator, which helped a lot when that nagging inner voice of realism piped up with, "Okay, there's no way that could have happened." My Let's-Enjoy-the-Story self would answer, "Yeah, but Tom wouldn't lie to us, so it MUST have happened!" And on we would go.Other than those contrivances mentioned, the writing was actually quite good for a suspense thriller (especially compared to Dan Brown), and I liked the ending, and enjoyed spending time with the characters. An interesting and fun work of fiction.
818449412	Eh, okay. This book has an identity crisis...is it an educational treasure hunt or a collection of reminiscences about some guy's college experiences and romances? The waffling killed me. I'd get excited about the progress of the two students deciphering an historical text and then have to listen as the author rambled about Princeton pranks and traditions for a few chapters. I didn't care about the other characters because the development was so spotty. And then when the main character arrives at the final stage of the search and is mere weeks from making a PRICELESS HISTORICAL DISCOVERY that would make him rich, famous, and well-respected for eternity (not to mention conquer the demons of his suicidal father), he decides to give it up for...a girl two years younger that he thinks he might have a future with??! First of all, what a crock. I don't care what the book tries to tell me, he can find time for both. Second of all, if he did have to choose, there is no guy who would choose their on-and-off college girlfriend over a discovery of this pretended magnitude. I was all set to give this book two stars, but then the ending was just clever and interesting enough that it earned some redemption.
130459725	Outstanding!I remember when this book first came out, I think soon after Dan Brown's The DaVinci Code, and I thought, "Copycat, copycat." So, I wouldn't even open it up then. Well, I should have. And I'm glad I finally did now. What a treat! Bound to make my personal top 5 of 2010.A pleasant surprise is the writing talent. For an action/adventure/decode/quest book, it's high art. Sample: "How well I kept my promise, I’m afraid to say. The stubbornness of boys in their childish ways must be a prodigy to women, who learn faster than angels how not to misbehave. Throughout my childhood there was a monopoly on mistakes in my house, and I was its Rockefeller.", [Ian Caldwell, Dustin Thomason, The Rule of Four]Secondly, the ending is very, very strong. As much as I liked Dan Brown's The Lost Symbol, I felt that after all the decoding in The Lost Symbol, the secret was...that there is no secret, kind of like investing in stock index funds. It's easy to under-appreciate the profundity of the simplicity. But, in The Rule of Four, the secret is rich, and entertaining. Very entertaining.Treat yourself and give this book a try, if you haven't already.
226069319	Enjoyed this, which I picked up seemingly at random from the library, then later found out it was on the NY Times bestseller list for many weeks. I think I liked the authors' cerebral approach to the technique of writing and what seemed like a doggedly philosophical approach to events despite their visceral significance in their slice of life. Characters were complex and intriguing. I see comparisons made to Da Vinci Code, but can't help thinking that if Dan Brown had half the intelligence of this book his writings would have been more believable. Almost the entire novel takes place over a single weekend yet the time sense is not strained, nor does the dialogue drag.Having said that, it took about half the book before gaining the sense of momentum and having some interest in the outcome of the plot. Kudos for a book which makes me want to write myself, and to see events in a new light. The central puzzle of the novel, decryption and interpretation of a real Renaissance-era book, seemed continually on the verge of being subsumed by the dramatic events of the novel. Great surprise ending. Spoiler: One wish is that the authors didn't kill off quite so many characters.
2173421844	Some interesting ideas built into a modern day tale about ancient manuscripts. Better than the Davinci Code, but in a similar light.
1564685110	I think I expected too much from this book. I wanted it to be about the secrets hidden within an ancient book. And it was, to a certain extent, but it was also largely about what it's like to finish college and leave that social microcosm behind. I had trouble keeping the characters straight for much of the book, and completely missed the cause of Gil and Charlie's argument. (It was referred to many times but never with a reminder of what it was about in the first place, so the deterioration of their friendship meant nothing to me.) The drunken rampage, while reasonable for the plot, seemed to rely on a character I swear I'd never even seen before. A lot of it made me feel like the characters were based on real people, and thus shoehorned in despite not quite fitting in the world of the story. Attempting to cram most of the story into a couple days interspersed with flashbacks instead of telling it chronologically didn't work very well either. I kept losing track of what happened when. I think, in the end, it tried to be too many stories at once, and thus told all of them poorly.
5177840651	Princeton campus during Easter weekend in 1999 brings four Princeton seniors, both friends and roommates: Tom, Paul, Charlie and Gil to solve the mystery contained within an extremely rare, and mysterious book. The Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, which was an incunabulum published in 1499 in Venice, Italy; it is a complex allegorical work written in a modified Italian language frequently interspersed with material from other languages as well as its anonymous author's own made-up words.The title refers to a cipher that the characters find was used to encode a hidden message in the Hypnerotomachia, which leads to a secret vault in Florence, Italy of books and art that the author, Francesco Colonna, hid to protect them from Girolamo Savonarola's bonfire of the vanities.Paul's friend Bill Stein and his thesis advisor Vincent Taft were conspiring together to steal Paul's thesis and claim credit for it, and the sealed vault of treasures. They are murdered.A mystery book, murders, treasure, friends “dead” from a campus fire, what more could a you ask for in a book? This has it all and I very much enjoyed every bit of it!
1743413183	Fortunately, I missed all of the negative reviews of this book and bought it after really enjoying Ian Caldwell's next book, The Fifth Gospel. The Rule of Four is the story of four Princeton roommates, set mainly during their senior year, by which time two of them are obsessed with unlocking a code in a 500 year old book. The obvious comparisons to the Da Vinci code have resulted in two camps for reviews, and I put myself in the group that enjoyed the book and even called it a page turner. I really appreciated the character development and the back stories, as well as the relationships between the four young men and the minor characters. I found the scholarship and historical research to be accurate and supportive. I don't know why anyone would say that they hated the book and/or give it a one star rating.For those interested in reading both this book and The Fifth Gospel, I would simply add that the two novels are completely independent of and unrelated to one another and can be read in either order.
1645380169	This book is definitely not for everyone, but for those who enjoy puzzles will find this to be a great read! Perhaps at some points it does seem like the story has gone off on a tangent, but those points are important to understand the characters, the reasons behind their actions and how it all combines for a really good story. The characters are relatable, and we understand that through those times. The imagery the authors provided had got me at a standstill, where time was of no relevance and I could appreciate the beauty in the romance of their words. Many novels haven't given me an ending which I'm satisfied with, but this one was an exception. While tying up the loose ends of the characters lives, the last words still have got my feelings stirring and my skin tingling, showing that even when we think our lives are set or have completed there can still be a unique adventure ahead that can change our lives forever.
616884508	I have heard this book described as the thinking person's DiVinci Code. That is certainly accurate. The story is very well written. Although it helps to have an exposure to classical education, liberal arts and certainly renaissance history, to fully grasp the subtleties of the plot, it is not a necessity or barrier to enjoying this book. It is well paced for a large book and a surprisingly fast read. The story seemingly screams to a finish only to slow a bit near the end to tie up the threads. The last 3 pages close with a wicked twist. If you love mystery thrillers and have a desire for something better than a Dan Brown retread, if you are a thinker and appreciate a book with some intellectual content, give this one a try. Hands down beats anything Dan Brown has written.
