2613576119	I almost gave this 1 star because I'm mad at him. He made me miss a day of work! (jk) Seriously though, I would not start this before going to bed. Jeff Wade throws you right into the middle of the action right at the start, in the mind of this mystery woman right at the start. Then it's a downhill ride from there like your riding on a run away roller coaster! I felt like I just had to know what happened next. I kept telling myself "okay one more chapter. okay one more chapter." Next thing you know, it's 4 a.m. and I'm closing the book and I'm wondering where the hell the world has been all night.
3448464576	Drawer #7 is original in the way of the telling, but at the expense of readability in parts. The premise is strong involving an otherworldly amber substance discovered by the U.S. Navy in the deepest recesses of the ocean. Naturally, scientists become mad with power, leading to abuse and highly illegal activities, not to mention inhumane treatment. The writing, in part, is a positive, playing mind games with the reader. Yes, the author should absolutely strive to make the reader think, but limit this type of structure, so as to not affect readability in a negative way. Overall, this is an author with quite a bit of potential. All that is needed is to restructure the writing somewhat.
2496328222	He did it again!Jeff Wade has outdone himself! His book, The Survivors,, was a fascinating and emotional read that I read in one day. Now with Drawers # 7 I was mesmerized and was unable to put the book down. It is 3:40 am and I just finished reading this gripping tale. No sleep tonight, I will be dissecting the characters and wondering about the mind that was so knowledgeable of such a diverse range of subjects. These subjects are some that I personally obsess about as a psychiatric RN. Could we be related? 😉
2627800706	Martial Arts Grandmaster and author, Jeff Wade, has produced a compelling novel, Drawer #7, that is at once thriller, sci-fi, and a peep into the worlds of human trafficking and psychology/mental illness. It also leads us to examine ourselves through a character who believes he is a devout Christian, while behaving in a way that would repel most people whether religious or not. I am still saying, “Wow!” about Drawer #7.Freddie “The Fixer” Schaeffer is a local handyman/ repairman. Julie, a.k.a., Zoe, bolts into his life when she runs from traffickers and into the street in front of his van, which strikes her. Julie is a docile, childlike poet with only a rudimentary grasp of the English language. Her alter ego, Zoe is strong, outspoken, well-spoken, and trained in martial arts.In the first chapter, I wasn’t sure if I would enjoy Drawer #7. In chapter two I was hooked. I’m so glad I decided to keep reading.Freddie’s life is changed forever after rescuing Julie. Zoe shows him (and the reader) some of the experiments being conducted by military personnel who are allowed too much power in the fictitious (I hope) Department of Scientific Alternatives (D-Salt). Together Zoe and Freddie wipe out a criminal gang, and help a man who wants out of a life of crime.As writers often do, they allow their characters or narrators to voice the authors’ opinions. One of Wade’s characters realizes the “terrorist” he just killed on the orders of his covert operations unit, is actually a journalist who was getting too close to discovering the activities of D-SAlt. He then notes that “…newspapers these days served more to influence than to inform. Even giving them the benefit of the doubt when it came to honesty, what the news left out was as influential as what it chose to report.”This book is a gripping read that will hold your attention to the very end. The surprising end.What Make This Reviewer Grumpy?The usual things:• Using the word “further” in place of “farther” – a common mistake, but they are not interchangeable. Further refers to more of something, while farther refers to distance;• Misplacement of the word “only” within sentences;• Beginning sentences with conjunctions “and” and “but”;• Split infinitives.Look for me online as The Grumpy Book Reviewer.
2804881011	Freddie Schaeffer's life suddenly changes when he meets Zoe Decker. Freddie is a construction guy who can solve impossible construction problems. He decides to help "Star" when she runs out in front of his van while running from the guys at BT's, the strip joint/bar where she works. As Freddie, "The Fixer" learns more about "Star" or "Zoe" or "Julie" he wants to help her figure out why as "Zoe" she has "guts and grit" and is an artist/poet with military-like training and as "Julie" she is as nice as anyone could possibly be with no ability to write a poem.Zoe grew up in orphanages. Freddie has studied psychology and knows the effect of unspoken words on others. He believes Zoe's distance, guarded, cold and detached self is the result of self-preservation. According to Freddie's research and beliefs, positive words and support are vital to a person's normal development.Zoe helps Freddie with his family issues: his son, Stevie and his late wife, Stephanie.Paxyl, the owner of the BT's, wants Freddie to stay away from "Star". He and his goons threaten both of them.Freddie is concerned about Zoe's inability to remember things and thinks she has Dissociative Amnesia. He searches for answers to help her with her nightmares. They go searching for answers at the military complex since Zoe repeats "Sea level. Desalt. Drawer number seven" in her dreams. Those at the military complex hold them there and eventually Freddie and Zoe end up running for their lives. They have finally uncovered the truth!A twisted tale of survival. Adults only.
2756184465	NO good deed goes unpunished... or does it?Drawer number 7Drawer number 7 is riveting novel from cover to cover. It is a psychological thriller involving high level government corruption and cover up, scientific advancements gone to far, narcissistic government officials; mixed with a true to life complicated love story and one man's struggle to make peace with his past and find a place in the future. Freddie the fixer is an unassuming handyman, liked by all but friends with few, just minding his own business when Zoe quite literally crashes into his life. As the saying goes “No good deed goes unpunished”, Freddie soon finds himself deeply entangled in a knotted web of ever tightening intertwining secrets involving high level government agencies, low life scum criminals, and a complex love triangle with Zoe and her polar opposite Julie.Drawer number 7 is so well written it you become completely engrossed in the story line. I HAD to keep reading as a felt like an integral part of the story. Everytime I thought I knew where the plot was going a new twisted developed and I was fighting to find a way to make sense of it all. Reaching ‘ah ha’ moments at critical junctions in the plot spurred me on to read more and more. I reached the ending and was sad to have to go, O truly felt invested in these characters. I give this novel 5 stars!! I hope Jeff Wade finds time to write more, I would excitedly fill my library with his novels.
2776930134	Drew me in and didn’t let go until the end I am usually a reader of romantic fiction but sometimes I find I need a break because really how many times can there be new ways to be kidnapped abducted by aliens be rescued and fall in love am I right? so when I find myself needing a break I usually fall back on Dean Koontz. This book was so reminiscent of his work that I was snagged by the first chapter. Pulled some late nights and read it in less than three days. There was a lull later in the book I’m not sure why was written in but the book and the plot are so good that I am overlooking that fact to give this read five stars. I really don’t think anyone who loves koontz and his weird sciFi kind of genre will be disappointed in this book. I highly recommend reading.
2616124264	I find it frustrating when authors get the details on weapons wrong. It's a magazine not a clip. It's a suppressor not a silencer. Revolvers hold 6 rounds not a hundred. Wade knew his stuff and got everything right, to my great surprise and relief for a change. All except one place where a 1911 pistol either held nine rounds or Freddie reloaded in there somewhere without telling us about it lol. But that was the only thing and I've heard of extended magazines for 1911s, so maybe that's what it was. I did a little digging and it turns out Wade has gunsmithing in his history. The story was good, but the accurate firearms depiction was what made it for me.
2988420024	Interesting BookWhat an interesting book. I mean the plot was truly creative. The author explains where he got his ideas after the book ends. I liked the main character, Freddie, a big hunk of man with kindness as his middle name. Julie and Zoe are outstanding in scope, and they carried out great scenes. I never did really figure "Amber" out, but let's just say the Marianna Trench was involved. Towards the end of the book, things were so fast-paced and scary, I could not read fast enough to find out what happened. If you like good characters, action, fast pacing , and loads of weird, this is a book for you!
2613578657	Being a writer myself, I struggle to find engaging reading material. Drawer 7 was a goldmine find. I found myself so engaged in this riveting tale with drama and action that I became unaware of my surroundings. I would jump in my boots at even a soft knocking on my door. I would laugh, even as I wept. Zoe is a mystery wrapped in an enigma. Julie is rock, but also a flower; she stands firm, yet she also goes with the flow of life's many challenges. Paxyl is sinister and cunning. I found myself shaking, yet also laughing. And sometimes I wept. I was impressed with this debut author's ability to keep the reader engaged and keep me on the edge of my seat right up until the end. 5 stars!
2621560706	"Under threat, attack what's attacking you." I'm getting a t-shirt with that blasted on the front! haha seriously though, this was a hard hitting story to read. The woman knows karate or martial arts and she's not afraid to dish it out! It's like, even though Freddie is, like twice her size, she's stronger than him! But don't worry, he comes around big time. My only complaint was Bruce Vega. He was kind of my "guide" through the story, if you know what I mean, and, well, I can't say more. Lets just say I wanted to see more of him. Maybe in the sequel? You getting this wade? haha just kidding, but kind of not.
5445310897	Absolutely loved this book! Very creative plot. Kept my attention all the way through to the end. I fell in love with the characters and really found myself caring about them. Almost thought I would have to withhold one star because I couldn’t see how it could end well. Well, it did, but not in the way I thought. Very well written. Definitely going to encourage my friends to read it.
2740827778	I found this tucked in my "library", forgotten and lonely amongst the books already finished, and couldn't even remember why I bought it..... Both glad and sorry I misplaced it. Glad because it was a great surprise, and sorry because I didn't get to read it sooner. I enjoyed it, and even bought it AGAIN because I forgot my Kindle on an overnight trip and had to know what happened! THAT was a first. I'll be trolling the bookstore for more by this guy.
5776323651	This was the second Jeff Wade book that I have read. The other was "The Good Father". Both are really fun books. This book was interesting in that it's a basic thriller, but there is a sci-fi element to it. The sci-fi aspect is sprinkled throughout the first half of the book and becomes more prevalent at the end. I definitely recommend this book for both thriller and sci-fi fans.
3658641423	AmazingWell written story about a handy man who meets a damsel in distress after running into her with his car. They spend most of the book trying to get her memory back and running from hoodlums who want her, actually one of her multiple personalities, back. Great read!
5538007963	Nail biting sci-fi mystery thriller wrapped into one! I really enjoyed the experience of reading this book. The character development is excellent, and the ending was an unexpected surprise. Highly recommend.
5788431945	Dark and goodLike the author's description said this was a dark novel and there was plenty of conspiracy and plenty of action. Every step of the way and some really strange romance. Triangles. I got the book for free but the opinion is my own.
3989155545	WOW-GREAT STORY FROM START TO FINISHJust finished DN7 and all I can say is wow. The imagination it took to create such a beautiful story. This book had it all, great characters, believable scenes and best of all an ending to wrap things up.
2986302467	Loved it, could not out it down. storyline drew me right in and absolutely loved all the characters.I loved it, could not out it down. The storyline drew me in and absolutely loved all the characters. Would love to see more of them.
2497365216	DN7 is a thrilling novel with well developed characters, a terrific plot and impossible to put down. The author paints the characters vividly and makes you want more. It’s sci-if, government conspiracy and romance all under one cover. Incredible read!
2605343476	This is a psychological thriller full of suspense, mystery, and twists and turns. There was even some sci fi, which I do not care for, thus the reason for my 4 star review. I really enjoyed it and will look for more from this author to read.
2617279742	All I can say is" I don't like violence, but I am good at it".awesome
3817889431	A bit slow for me, but the story is unique and kept me interested. I just wish there's more to Bruce's story. Overall a good read.
3149351829	Great read!
2668372934	The Worth of read by Jeff Wade Drawer #7 thriller full of suspense, mystery, and twists and turns.
2609427930	Oh my God . . . I cannot put this down . . . one minute Im terrified then one minute laughing. Where to start? It's adventurous . . . but also very emotional . . . I like Zoe and I like Julie and I can't decide which one I liked better. I can say more but I would ruin the surprise. Lots of twists in this thriller with surprises on every turn!
2656542641	Okay so what is that thing that is missing in so many self published work? It seems like any time I read something by an independent author it's just missing something or stated wrong. But this one had "it," whatever that "it" is. It just made you want to keep reading. I wish there was more like this out there in the affordable book category
