2617727316	TL;DR: I fucking hated this book. My Year of Rest and Relaxation could have been good. I was expecting something like You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine: a weird, disturbing book about a young woman dissociating from modern society. Instead I got 300 pages of vapid bullshit that seems unreasonably proud of itself. If you're here looking for recommendations, I'd give this one a pass and read the Kleeman instead.Another entry in the baffling 'women can be assholes too!' movement, My Year of Rest and Relaxation is all smoke and mirrors: Moshfegh is a good enough writer on a sentence level to make it seem like her book is about something, but I can assure you that it is absolutely not. There's so little substance in the actual text that I'm not even sure how to go about this review. I've been reading good reviews all morning to try and figure out what I missed, but a lot of people who wrote positive reviews didn't actually like it either: it's an unpleasant reading experience, and a lot of the book's high ratings seem to be on the dubious merit of that unpleasantness. I wonder if the sunk cost fallacy isn't at work here: if someone published this and someone edited it and someone nominated the author's previous work for awards, then this must be good, right? We wouldn't all have put so much effort into a boring hack. I don't think that writing about nasty people doing nasty things takes any particular skill, though, or that it has intrinsic value - the only skill seems to be in a marketing strategy which has convinced us that if we don't like a book that means it's good, actually.I'm not sure how to go about this other than by listing this book's apparent strengths, according to its fans:The characters are so unlikeable!It's probably clear at this point that I don't think writing unlikeable characters for the sake of being able to is very compelling; it seems conceited on the part of the author, and a bit like I'm being invited in on a mean spirited joke. It's strange to me that this is a draw for other readers. I'm glad that Moshfegh has come to the conclusion that rich, pretty people can be unlikeable; I don't have any particular desire to discuss that with her at length. Moshfegh has a response for complaints like mine, from an interview she did with the Guardian for her novel Eileen: "When I ask Moshfegh about the reception of the novel, she rails against those who 'want to know in this juicy way why I have written such an unlikable character. I just want to say: ‘How dare you?’' We live in a world in which mass murderers are re-elected, she says, yet it’s an unlikable female character that is found to be offensive: it’s 'sexist and idiotic'."I think that calling this out as sexist - which is the typical answer, and not a Moshfegh original by any means - is a smokescreen. We're not talking about an actual woman who exists in the world: we're talking about a character that someone intentionally made up. Characters don't end up this horrible by accident, and it's worth questioning why someone sat down and labored over a character so unrealistically nasty. I really don't think there's a good reason, which is why the question is always met with immediate deflection. It seems like a sneaky way for female authors to show how much better and smarter they are than other women while pretending that they're practicing some radical act of feminism.But it's so weird and dark and disturbing!The narrator was so removed from her own experiences that this didn't read as very dark or disturbing to me, but even if it had, I don't think that's an especially compelling reason to read something. (Incidentally, this is also why I've drifted away from Chuck Palahniuk.) Most of my favorite books this year were disturbing but they were also about something, and that's why I liked them; a book that's trying to be disturbing at the expense of having a plot or even one character that you can empathize with is like a bad jump scare. It works, but it's easy and shallow and forgettable. It takes no particular skill and has no meaning. I've considered that this actually is the point - that books don't have to mean anything, that they can just exist as objects untethered from any deeper philosophical inquiry - but it turns out that is a point after all, it's just a stupid one. This book is a detailed example of what it is like to be depressed.You know what? Sure, I'll give it this one. Depression makes the world boring and it can make depressed people very difficult to like. I'm not sure that taking a deep dive into "depressed people are self centered and horrible" is a helpful or kind thing to do, but it's at least not wholly inaccurate.I do take offense at our culture's continued fascination with the idea that people can be both rich and depressed. I realize, as all depressed people do, that depression isn't contingent on our material circumstances: I fucking know that rich people can be depressed. I also know that having money lifts a huge burden off of their shoulders. You can't buy happiness but you can certainly buy therapy, medication, and the time to properly take care of yourself - things which are categorically denied to people who aren't very wealthy or very privileged. I am not the only one who drags my depressed ass to work every day for the privilege of not being able to afford the medication that might make it easier to stay alive, and I do not give a single shit about how depressed rich people may or may not be. Let's all agree to stop telling this story in 2019.But the writing is so charming and funny!Is it?The ending is great: it shows that the narrator has grown & changed. Such a punch in the gut! & very uplifting.There is a trite, stupid little chapter after our narrator has come out of her Infermiterol daze where she starts going outside and feeding squirrels corn flakes in the park. I suppose this is meant to show that she has changed; now, she is capable of seeing beauty and engaging with a world outside of herself. It felt shallow and unearned, but perhaps it was meant to feel shallow and unearned, because then the final chapter of this book is a half-page summary of the narrator discovering that her friend Reva died in the World Trade Center on September 11th. She has recorded a video from the news in which a woman leaps to her death from the burning building. The narrator decides to believe that the woman is Reva, and watches the footage over and over, apparently for years. The book's last line, on which people seem to be fairly divided, is this: There she is, a human being, diving into the unknown, and she is wide awake.This is an incredibly offensive thing to say, made worse because it's also fucking meaningless. I have the sense that Moshfegh thinks she can get away with this by putting it in the mouth of a horrendous character and giving it a clever little twist: our narrator has spent the past year asleep because she can't face the mundanity of her day to day life, but a woman who has leapt to her death from a burning building is really awake. Do you get it, though? Do you see what she did there? It's a juxtaposition between sleeping and wakefulness and life and death. It's like, you can totally sleepwalk through life and someone dying can be truly awake, you know what I mean? This is exactly the kind of ~*~deep~*~ shit my friends and I used to come up with when we were 19 and stoned; it's a literary version of that 'real eyes realize real lies' nonsense that we used to post on Myspace. It's dumb word play that's purporting to actually mean something and the fact that it's the last line of this fucking stupid book is infuriating to me. Is it supposed to be funny? Ironic? Am I supposed to think that the narrator is a better person, or just the same shithead that she always was but a year older? Is it a treatise on the meaning of the book? Is it just Ottessa Moshfegh having a laugh that the literary establishment has welcomed her trite, boring nonsense with open arms, or am I supposed to be taking this seriously? This book defies categorization not because it's tricky, clever, or meaningful, but because it's emotionally and thematically empty. It's not about anything and it has nothing to say. It's a series of images strung together to absolutely no end and its strongest selling point is that with its last line it finally engendered a single emotion in me: incredulous rage. In the same Guardian interview I mentioned above, Moshfegh said that "[her] writing lets people scrape up against their own depravity, but at the same time it’s very refined … It’s like seeing Kate Moss take a shit." This is a fucking hilariously conceited thing for someone to say, but it also introduces the only worthwhile question I can muster about Moshfegh's work: who is this for? What audience is being allowed to (lol) "scrape up against their own depravity"? I can't say, other than that I'm clearly not a part of it.When you don't like books like this, people are quick to pin the blame on you: you just don't get it. Things don't have to be likeable to be important. Sometimes, though, there's nothing there to get, and being unlikeable doesn't give something intrinsic value. I hate the idea that important literature can't also be fun, and I hate this senseless hackjob of a book.
3134695611	not to sound like i believe myself to the center of the universe, but...i am and i do and this book was probably written for me.https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com...i, like our protagonist, am a 24-year-old blonde with exactly one toxic but adoring friend who daydreams about the idea of sleeping away a week / month / year and waking up refreshed and renewed and in a slightly different, shinier life. in college, the aforementioned singular friend and i lived through finals and midterms and forty-hour workweeks combined with internships and full-time course-loads by fantasizing about comas. just a few weeks or so, no brain damage, modern-day snow whites escaping capitalism or the patriarchy or what have you.all of this is to say that the only thing that separates me from this protagonist is the first two decades of the millennium and the wherewithal to get it done.life is painful and exhausting and gross. life is stained crate & barrel couches and intolerable people with trust funds who can't tolerate themselves and caffeine addictions upheld by sh*tty coffee. life needs pills to get you through it and pills to get you out of it. but life is also the in-betweens: waking up from blackouts (proverbial or literal) to full-body enjoy a slice of pizza standing in front of your fridge. feeling the sun on your skin at the end of winter. sitting in a park and watching people be happy. calling friends.and life is knowing that the worst part of it all could be just around the corner, on the very last page. but the best part could come a few after. and maybe the bad parts are actually the in-betweens of the happy ones.that isn't what this book is about, but it's a fun side effect.bottom line: this book is good.reread update: want to note that a) i don't think that you're supposed to like this protagonist, god help me, and b) raising this to a 5, because this is not a perfect book (that ending...shudder) but it's close to it for me!--------------2nd rereaddepressive episode reading--------------reread pre-reviewi have almost no new insight.still review & rating to come--------------reread updatedoing the Bravest thing i can imagine: rereading this less than 3 weeks after i read it for the first time just so i can buddy read with lily (and also hopefully figure out a rating)--------------pre-reviewhow could i possibly be expected to sum up this book with a number between 1 and 5?review & rating to come--------------tbr reviewsecretly i hope every book i pick up will turn out to be the kind of depressing, nasty, female-authored literary fiction populated by unlikable young women and Something to Say about the soullessness of late-stage capitalism that changes my internal monologue for 10-14 days and sears disturbing images into my brain.i have a good feeling about this one.
2957939388	This is a very accurate depiction of depression—you feel the main character’s monotony, the lethargy, the pointlessness of it all. As someone who copes with depression by sleeping an excessive amount, I understood where she was coming from, and picked up this book out of curiosity to see what happens when someone submits to that nihilistic desire to not associate with the world anymore. The relationship between the main character and her best friend provided an interesting look at both sides of unhappiness: one that is cynical and apathetic and succumbs to inactivity, and one that is shallow positivity to desperately cope with life. I thought this was a unique way of showing different types of depression and how they are alike and different at the same time.Unfortunately, there were a lot of missed opportunities for the story to be more insightful and memorable beyond the exaggerated experiment of taking a mental health day. Many reviews complain that the main character is deplorable and annoyingly privileged, but I argue that was on purpose. The fault is more so that there wasn’t much done with this purposeful portrayal. I think showing more vulnerability to her character would have added more insight and humanity, especially since she was clearly grieving over her parents and projecting her self-hatred onto her best friend, but there was little payoff for these subplots. (I suppose the lack of payoff is realistic, but I wonder if that justifies a good 300-page novel.) The middle part drags, which makes the tonal shift and tacked-on conclusion towards the end, in contrast, feel too abrupt and heavy-handed.
4602814983	This book is horrible. I am not one of those people who says "I just don't get it." I understand exactly what this book is trying to do. This books has no deep message nor is it a stroke of genius from its writer. It is a book about grief and depression, and how it brings out the worst in us, and how we want to escape from the world around us, but life is worth living and blah blah blah. Not only do I not like this book I also don't respect it. I don't respect its writing, its message , its plot or it's ending. This is not a good book. It is sudo intelligent. It makes a mockery fo its own subject matter and is insufferable to read. I know our narrator being insufferable is the point and if that works for you great. But in order for that to work for me I need a purpose and this books only purpose for that is grief and depression, so it feels hollow, flat, thin.
3436679293	this was....something else. this will probably always remain one of the oddest books i’ve ever read. on the surface it is mostly ridiculous, the narrator deciding to just take a year in the hopes that it will transform her outlook on life. but underneath all that, it is kind of a tender and vulnerable look at a woman who is struggling to deal with her grief and depression and feels that drastic measures are the only way get through. my only complaint is that things dragged throughout the middle just a bit, which in itself almost lent to the overall lethargy of the story, but the conclusion of the year was rushed (and wrapped up a little too neatly?) and i would have preferred a bit more time to have been focused there.
4118109714	this bitch really said let me sleep for one year because wtf is my life and i ate that shit up 😩i love books with unlikeable characters, and this book served to say the least :) There is absolutely no one to root for, like no one and still this book managed to keep me hooked until the last page.
4563571648	it's rare to enjoy both the writing and the concept for a book and then totally hate the execution.but i don't think that a self obsessed and sort of traumatized WASP giving catty commentary juxtaposed with the idea of sleeping for a year really worked. i certainly wanted it to, but this left me very empty. i think i'm too dumb to really "get" this kind of intellectualism.
4153751135	how the fuck was it so boring and so good at the same time????
4333805768	this is the catcher in the rye for hot women!!!!!!!!!!
3132342337	Reading this felt like a chore.
2466353787	I was finally doing something that really mattered. Sleep felt productive. Something was getting sorted out. I knew in my heart—this was, perhaps, the only thing my heart knew back then—that when I’d slept enough, I’d be okay. I’d be renewed, reborn. I would be a whole new person, every one of my cells regenerated enough times that the old cells were just distant, foggy memories. My past life would be but a dream, and I could start over without regrets, bolstered by the bliss and serenity that I would have accumulated in my year of rest and relaxation. Whew! I had a surprising reaction to this novel. Ottessa Moshfegh’s My Year of Rest and Relaxation managed to catch me off guard and by surprise. Probably because – funny story – ironically, this book is about a character who does what I always say I’d like to do: have the ability to put my life on pause for just a few days to rest, to think, to recharge. Then press a magic button and the world resumes spinning, without me having lost a single second of my life. Wouldn’t that be wonderful! Well, here’s that idea with a twist: Little Miss Nameless Protagonist here does this for an entire year (while strung out on a myriad of different high-level drugs, all while juggling her semi-unwanted friendship with her best friend and her feelings about the death of her parents and the reality of her shitty boyfriend – really, he’s not even that). Set in the year 2000, our narrator decides to hibernate through a year of her life in an attempt to be a new person on the other side of that time. So, with the help of a zany and negligible psychiatrist who’s first and only line of doctoring is to pull out her prescription pad, our narrator dives deeper and deeper into the world of prescription drugs—and the psychological effects of them—in her quest to sleep away a year of her life.My Ambien, my Rozerem, my Ativan, my Xanax, my trazodone, my lithium. Seroquel, Lunesta. Valium. I laughed. I teared up. Finally, my heart slowed. My hands started trembling a little, or maybe they’d been trembling all along. “Thank God,” I said aloud…I counted out three lithium, two Ativan, five Ambien. That sounded like a nice mélange, a luxurious free fall into velvet blackness. And a couple of trazodone because trazodone weighed down the Ambien, so if I dreamt, I’d dream low to the ground. That would be stabilizing, I thought. And maybe one more Ativan. Ativan to me felt like fresh air. A cool breeze, slightly effervescent. This was good, I thought. A serious rest. My mouth watered. Good strong American sleep.Jacques Louis David’s neoclassical painting has been used as the cover, a reference to our protagonist’s “culture,” of which she is so proud and self-important, and her Art History background in college and before she quit the workforce. It’s a nice touch, offering layers of other meanings to this book. Within these pages you’ll find a slew of wholly unlikeable characters – well, unlikeable by the arbitrary standards we tend to think of as what makes a “nice” or “good” person. You won’t find those people here. Instead you’ll find the nameless narrator who knows she’s gorgeous and privileged and secretly loves the fact that her (bulimic, needy, whiny, having an intra-office affair with a married guy) best friend, Reva, is jealous of her. You’ll find the WASP mother of the nameless protagonist who can’t be bothered to mother but instead calls in the nanny and drinks herself to death in the end. The artiste who made his claim to fame by ejaculating on a blank canvas in various colors. And we shan’t forget the “boyfriend” who uses our protagonist for quick sexual trysts that work out to only his benefit and then shuns her for weeks or months until he’s ready for another one. She has become semi-dependent on him and this cycle of abuse, even as she hopes that it will one day stop and that he’ll choose her. Their relationship is twisted and not at all the storybook love affair you’re used to:I called Trevor again. This time when he answered, I didn’t let him say a word. “If you’re not over here fucking me in the next forty-five minutes then you can call an ambulance because I’ll be here bleeding to death and I’m not gonna slit my wrists in the tub like a normal person. If you’re not here in forty-five minutes, I’m gonna slit my throat right here on the sofa. And in the meantime, I’m going to call my lawyer and tell him I’m leaving everything in the apartment to you, especially the sofa. So you can lean on Claudia or whoever when it comes time to deal with all that. She might know a good upholsterer.I hear Moshfegh is a fan of writing about these sorts of characters – characters who need a chaser or two before they’ll go down our throats smoothly. This was my first foray into her works, and I don’t mind that. In fact, that quality is what drew me deeper into this novel once I opened the first page. Moshfegh’s My Year of Rest and Relaxation doesn’t shy away from the murk and unpleasantness – really, downright offensiveness – inside of us all, that we’re all capable of. In fact, her characters here seem to revel in the way their ickiness makes them better than other people while simultaneously wallowing in it until it nearly drowns them. It’s a bold and scary line for an author to walk, and to see the characters on, but that’s what we love about writers who can pull it off. We all need that shiny mirror of our own spiny imperfections staring back at us from time to time, don’t we? My Year of Rest and Relaxation is dark and obnoxious, but I loved it. Because, isn’t life that way sometimes? I love characters with bite, maybe a pinch of cruelty in them –But did I care? I didn’t think so. If Reva’s body was hanging by the neck behind the bath curtain, I might have just gone home.--I appreciate the layers of characters who aren’t bow-tied in shiny pink ribbons of perfection, happy and grinning stupidly with their perfect teeth and empty heads. I like a character who is…shall I say, more like a real person, imperfections and all. Honestly, I felt like this book was WASPy done well – and I don’t think I’ve ever said that before. Even as she stood at the edge of reality, possibly even the precipice of her life, I was able to forget that her feeling of ennui with her privilege annoyed me. I wanted to reach out my hand to her, hoping she’d be okay:I wondered if I might be dead, and I felt no sorrow, only worry over the afterlife, if it was going to be just like this, just as boring. If I’m dead, I thought, let this be the end. The silliness. At some point I got up to guzzle water from the tap in the kitchen. When I stood upright afterward, I started to go blind. The fluorescent lights were on overhead. The edges of my vision turned black. Like a cloud, the darkness came and rested in front of my eyes. I could move my eyes up and down, but the black cloud stayed fixed. Then it grew, widening. I buckled down to the kitchen floor and splayed out on the cold tile. I was going to sleep now, I hoped. I tried to surrender. But I would not sleep. My body refused. My heart shuddered. My breath caught. Maybe now is the moment, I thought: I could drop dead right now. Or now. Now. But my heart kept up its dull bang bang, thudding against my chest… But this novel’s ending is what sealed the deal for me, culminating with 9/11 shortly after our protagonist wakes from her year of sleep. The towers come down, someone she knows dies, and maybe – just maybe – that last line of the novel shows that our protagonist has finally found her humanity. I highly recommend this book to readers who like their characters straight with no chaser--to readers who don't shy away from some of the darker hues of humanity. If you're uncomfortable with that notion, definitely stay away! I was glued to this novel from start to finish, and that resonating ending easily solidified the strong 4 stars I’m offering up. **** I received an advance-read copy of this book from the publisher, Penguin, via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.FOLLOW ME HERE:Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram | Get a Copy of My Book | Book Editing, Author Coaching, Submit Your Book to Me
4453818902	This was so boring and absolutely no one was likable. I assumed I’d feel some sort of kindred spirit with a depressed woman who decided to sleep her life away, but there was simply no meaning to anything that happened. She was horrible to her best friend, and that had no meaning. She took a treasure trove of pills every day, and that had no meaning. She slept for 4 months, waking every three days to eat, and that had no meaning. I’m walking away from this having learned nothing about depression or anxiety or suicidal thoughts, in fact I don’t truly believe there’s any messaging in this book. It’s just about a mean woman who slept.
4117154951	A solid 3/5. This put me in a terrible slump and took me 3 weeks to finish (for reference, it normally takes me about a day to finish a book this size). I think that the beginning and end have loads of meaningful anecdotes about life and the female experience. It reminded me a lot of The Bell Jar but without the racism. I do have to say that I love reading about totally unlikable and unhinged women, but this book was not that enjoyable of a read for me; however, I believe that is the point. It is a book about a woman sleeping for a year, so naturally, it's going to be slow. My Year of Rest and Relaxation is deliberately boring, which is an interesting artistic choice, but I still don't feel that it was entirely worth the read. I am excited to see the movie, though.
4463626851	ur gonna have to wait for the video becausssseee……
3977257746	American psycho but the grisly murders have been replaced with a series of naps
6224361057	Reassured me that being a lazy whore is both a lifestyle and a calling.
4221763889	The only good part about this book was the way it hooked me from the very first page until the very end.Did I enjoy the book? No, but I read it till the end. Pure writing talent I would say to this because….1. I hated all the characters especially the narcissistic, compulsive liar who poked fun of mental health issues, communal stereotyping, manipulative self destructive main character (the narrator of course!)2. What’s the point of this book other than we could all relate to the character on some of our ‘I don’t care’ moments of our lives?3. Just not worth the hype. I just cannot believe I wasted two whole days reading this book. Again, pure genius with the writing even when I hated everything else about the book.One thing for sure I am glad though is that I didn’t buy the book.(This sounds like my book. The cover is depressing but that's okay. The heart wants what it wants.) Now this was before I actually read the book.
3359403240	“Oh, sleep. Nothing else could ever bring me such pleasure, such freedom, the power to feel and move and think and imagine, safe from the miseries of my waking consciousness.”I love to sleep! There’s nothing much better than a deliciously deep slumber without interruption. It’s also one of the most difficult of leisurely activities to come by. Perhaps that’s why when I lay my head down each night I hope that this will indeed be it – the most perfect sleep of all. I can’t tell you when I last experienced such a thing. If I had to guess, it would have been under anesthesia approximately fourteen years ago, and I suspect that doesn’t really count!“My hibernation was self-preservational. I thought that it was going to save my life.”When I first became aware of this novel, my curiosity was piqued but I didn’t really think it would be all that riveting. A woman attempts to take a year off from her life by ingesting a varied and absurd amount of pills in order to sleep the year away and wake up refreshed and renewed. Okay, but that sounds a bit boring. A woman sleeps for a year? What kind of entertainment could a reader possibly find in these pages? Then 2020 happened. What better time than now to languish in a drug-induced state for an entire year of your life? Yes, please! Exactly what remarkable cocktail of pills could do this for me?! “I’m not a junkie or something. I’m taking some time off. This is my year of rest and relaxation.” I was completely bowled over by this one! This novel was not a sedative – it was a stimulant, a wake-up call to get up and live your life! It was immensely entertaining – and smart! It seemed somewhat impertinent on my part to burst into laughter at random moments, but I suspect it was the author’s intent for the reader to do just that. Young, beautiful, financially secure, educated and cultured, Moshfegh’s protagonist seems to have everything going for her. But life in her upscale Manhattan apartment is vapid, pretentious and meaningless; or so she has concluded. Enter Dr. Tuttle, one of the most farcical caricatures you’ll come across in literature. She’s the psychiatrist that will prescribe anything and everything under the sun. Here’s a bit of her “wisdom” I can’t resist sharing:“A lot of psychic diseases get passed around in confined public spaces. I sense your mind is too porous.”Dr. Tuttle takes the cake here for one of the zaniest, most memorable characters. Speaking of characters, there aren’t loads of them to get to know, for obvious reasons. If you spend most of your time indoors, sleeping, popping pills, and watching movies on VHS cassettes, you’re not going to bump into a whole lot of people. There is a ‘best friend’ of sorts named Reva, who likes to drop in uninvited. She’ll make you think a lot about your own friendships and what kind of meaning they really have. Is it possible that our closest friends envy us, despise us even? Yikes, I don’t even want to think about that. But you’ll get to know what shallow means when you watch these two interact. Mostly everyone else is in the background. We see them through our unnamed narrator’s memories - her ‘on and off’ boyfriend, her now deceased parents. Through these relationships you’ll get a better idea of what makes this woman want to essentially reinvent herself. I don’t want to spill the beans on any more of this story. I have to admit that I haven’t read something that had me turning the pages so quickly in quite some time. Ottessa Moshfegh is sharp and her voice is invigorating. Seems odd to say this about a plot revolving around sleeping for a year, but it is! It is dark and funny, and you just might want a good pair of muck boots if you tend to get a bit squeamish. Oh, and that ending – just brilliant, really! “I counted the seconds passing. Time could go on forever like this, I thought again. Time would. Infinity loomed consistently and all at once, forever, with or without me.”
2909075636	Ottessa Moshfegh seems to be completely incapable of producing works that aren't masterpieces.
2261447351	Review from Hello Yellow Room. Someone standing in line with Otessa Moshfegh at a Starbucks must have said aloud “I’m not sure there’s a novel that sufficiently embraces apathy brought about by woeful depression,” and Otessa said, “Hold my latte.” If that’s not a factual depiction of how this novel was conceived, then my new favorite author Ms. Moshfegh herself can come correct me. I wouldn’t mind.My Year of Rest and Relaxation is a unique twist on the classic metamorphosis tale. Written to take place in the year 2000-2001, it’s a novel based heavily in our transition from 1990’s affluence and innocence and relative ease, into the early 2000’s height of terrorism and anxiety. Our narrator, nameless, lifeless, thin, beautiful, rich, orphaned, plans on spending a year in hibernation to sleep away her emotions, wrapped up in a cocoon of colorful pharmaceutical helpers. She finds herself a quack psychiatrist, Dr. Tuttle (hilariously rife with terrible advice), to prescribe her every sleep aid on the market. She takes her apathy in extreme doses, a perfect prescription for a privileged white female in the midst of a foggy depression. Our narrator is as completely disinterested with herself as she is in the rest of the world, which impresses me in a way I can’t put my finger on. I’ve rarely come across a character in literary fiction so uninterested in themselves.Juxtaposed with our narrator is her best friend from college, the sweet and try-hard Reva. Desperate to fit in, bulimic, chasing trends and having affairs with bosses, Reva is the stereotypical antithesis to our apathetic heroine. She issues Oprah-book-club axioms and sophomoric attempts at psychoanalysis, trying to establish a connection with our narrator, to no avail. In the end, her frantic running around attempting to change herself is just as ineffectual as the narrator’s standing still.The plot, or lack thereof, rides a strange dream-like quality of repetition and haziness. Our narrator begins to black out and do things without her waking knowledge; she throws parties, goes on shopping binges, duct tapes her phone to odd places, harasses her old boyfriends, etc. Her black outs last for days and leave her totally bemused as to what she’s done. In a particularly active black out, she befriends an artist named Ping Xi who finds her mission fascinating and wants to use her as a muse. Our narrator only wants to sleep. Her observation of the outside world, and everyone dialed into it, is scathing.I’ll hold off describing our narrator’s estranged relationship with her emotionally distant father and her cold, cruel mother. It becomes a pivotal point driving her addiction to avoidance. She does eventually emerge from her chrysalis of sleep, but the novel’s ending leaves much to be desired. It’s bittersweet—anticlimactic and effective, all at once. Just like this whole novel. Memorable Quotes: “Education is directly proportional to anxiety.”“This was how I knew the sleep was having an effect: I was growing less and less attached to life. If I kept going, I thought, I’d disappear completely, then reappear in some new form. This was my hope. This was my dream.”“I felt myself float up and away, higher and higher into the ether until my body was just an anecdote, a symbol, a portrait hanging in another world.”“But these painters of fruit thought only of their own mortality, as though the beauty of their work would somehow soothe their fear of death. There they all were, hanging feckless and candid and meaningless, paintings of things, objects, the paintings themselves just things, objects, withering toward their own inevitable demise.”Thanks to NetGalley for my pre-pub copy for an unbiased review.
3486990055	3.5 Książka strasznie dziwaczna i nierówna. Początek mi się podobał, potem środek nieco dłużył, potem końcowe 30 stron było naprawdę świetne a zakończenie historii kiepskie bardzo. I co mam teraz z Tobą zrobić, książko?
2413978537	I was “on drugs.” I took upwards of a dozen pills a day. But it was all very regulated, I thought. It was all totally above board. I just wanted to sleep all the time. I had a plan. “I’m not a junkie or something,” I said defensively. “I’m taking some time off. This is my year of rest and relaxation.” This novel is by Ottessa Mosfegh – author of Eileen, my views of which were neatly captured by the Sunday Times recent review of this book: Billed as a thriller, Eileen was more of a mystery, a mystery as to how it ever got published, let alone garnered comparisons to Nabakov and wound up on the Man Booker shortlist.Eileen was one of a number of books (for example Sorry to Disrupt the Peace) that spearheaded the “unlikeable female” narrator genre –relying on confrontational, unfiltered behaviour and calculated “grossness” (the first of which I can appreciate, the second of which always reminds me of nothing more than my experience in youth groups with young-ish children who think they can shock leaders by using swear words and sexual terms they have just learnt).My view of Mosfegh’s books was not assisted by a number of (again deliberately but childishly) provocative interviews she gave leading up to the award – in particular making it clear that she was nothing like her “loser” protagonist with a much more successful and fulfilled life. For balance though I have to say that by the time of the shortlist readings and book signings the author came across as intelligent and thoughtful. The unnamed narrator of this book lives in some privilege in her fully owned apartment in New York; although privilege earned by the successive deaths – from cancer and pill/alcohol suicide – of her parents; parents who were distant from each other and from her even during her childhood. She has an on-off, relationship with Trevor (a sado-masochist and commitment-phobe), works on the fringes of the New York art scene – in a conceptual art gallery – in late 2000/early 2001 but rejects much if not all of the lives she sees around her and takes refuge in drugs, alcohol and cynicism.Her only real "friend" is Reva. Reva’s (largely thwarted) aspirations are everything that the narrator is trying to escape: she is devastated by the cancer her mother is suffering; she is slowly climbing the corporate ladder, as an assistant at the insurance broker Marsh; searching for love – having an affair with her clearly manipulative married boss; obsessed with exercise classes, designer clothes she cannot afford and weight loss to the point of bulimia and declaiming (so often it becomes her signature phase) “no fair” at the narrator’s own natural slimness and beauty and inherited style (which the narrator reminds us about constantly). Reva’s weight obsession adds some humour to the book: getting pregnant by her lover (who immediately engineers her a promotion to her firm’s office in the World Trade Centre) she remarks “The doctor said the abortion won’t cause any dramatic weight loss, but I’ll take it” and after her mother’s death, wasted away by cancer: “She probably weighed half of what I weigh now. Well, maybe not half exactly. But she was super skinny. Skinnier than Kate Moss, even.” Reva seems to take her beliefs and ideas from the trite and cliched world of Hallmark cards, lifestyle magazines and corporate mission statements – the narrator observations on Reva are (as one might expect from this genre) caustic and cruelly humourous: I took a Polaroid of her one night and stuck it into the frame of the mirror in the living room. Reva thought it was a loving gesture, but the photo was really meant as a reminder of how little I enjoyed her company if I felt like calling her later while I was under the influence.After a minute or two of silence, she looked up at me and put a finger under her nose—something she did when she was about to start crying. It was like an Adolf Hitler impression. I pulled my sweater over my head and grit my teeth and tried not to laugh while she sputtered and whined and tried to compose herself. But, more deeply, Reva’s life and attitudes somehow act as a remedy for the narrator’s malaise: Reva scratched at an itch that, on my own, I couldn’t reach. Watching her take what was deep and real and painful and ruin it by expressing it with such trite precision gave me reason to think Reva was an idiot, and therefore I could discount her pain, and with it, mine. Reva was like the pills I took. They turned everything, even hatred, even love, into fluff I could bat away. A remedy but not a panacea – and the narrator turns instead to sleep - the only shared activity she had with her mother. oh, sleep. nothing else could ever bring me such pleasure, such freedom, the power to feel and move and think and imagine, safe from the miseries of my waking consciousness. I was not a narcoleptic—I never fell asleep when I didn’t want to. I was more of a somniac. A somnophile. I’d always loved sleeping. It was one thing my mother and I had enjoyed doing together when I was a child. She was not the type to sit and watch me draw or read me books or play games or go for walks in the park or bake brownies. We got along best when we were asleep. She locates a comically bad psychiatrist to assist her: Try to sleep on your side when possible. There was recently a study in Australia that said that when you sleep on your back, you’re more likely to have nightmares about drowning. It’s not conclusive, of course, since they’re on the opposite side of the Earth. So actually, you might want to try sleeping on your stomach instead, and see what that does. Whose sole skills (but ones that are invaluable for the narrator’s purposes) are the ability to track down the latest drugs from internet articles and (more importantly) a fine judgement of how many, and at what frequency and quantity, she can prescribe without causing issues with health insurers.The narrator’s somnophilia causes her to lose her job (which she reacts to in a thankfully relatively rare outbreak of Eileen-style grossness by defecating on the floor of the gallery and stuffing the soiled tissues into the mouth of a stuffed dog forming part of an exhibition) and to take up systematically sleeping as a one-year sabbatical: I was finally doing something that really mattered. Sleep felt productive. Something was getting sorted out. I knew in my heart—this was, perhaps, the only thing my heart knew back then—that when I’d slept enough, I’d be okay. I’d be renewed, reborn. I would be a whole new person, every one of my cells regenerated enough times that the old cells were just distant, foggy memories. My past life would be but a dream, and I could start over without regrets, bolstered by the bliss and serenity that I would have accumulated in my year of rest and relaxation. To her initial disquiet, she discovers a drug which rather than making her sleep seems to induce in her an extreme form of somnambulism – rendering her unaware of her actions for three days at a time an unfortunate shift occurred. The carefree tranquility of sleep gave way to a startling subliminal rebellion—I began to do things while I was unconscious. But over time decides to embrace this as the culmination of her sleep experiment – and she strikes a deal with a conceptual artist from the gallery, who has access to paint her during the episodes in exchange for keeping her supplied for her intervals of lucidity. And unfortunately it is around this point that the book veers from, while not being exceptional, to at least being surprisingly (given its predecessor) promising into sheer tedium.Or at least this was my view – other readers may enjoy pages of lists of drugs and television programmes – so I include a very small sample: In the elevator back up to my apartment, I thought up combinations of pills that I hoped would put me out—Ambien plus Placidyl plus Theraflu. Solfoton plus Ambien plus Dimetapp. I wanted a cocktail that would arrest my imagination and put me into a deep, boring, inert sleep. I needed to 19 1 dispose of those photographs. Nembutal plus Ativan plus Benadryl. ........... I watched Driving Miss Daisy and Sling Blade. I took a Nembutal and drank half a bottle of Robitussin. I watched The World According to Garp and Stargate and A Nightmare on Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors and Moonstruck and Flashdance, then Dirty Dancing and Ghost, then Pretty Woman. The book then culminates in an ending which was obviously foreshadowed throughout the book (and this review) – and really does very little with this idea other than with the closing words about a “jumper” “There she is, a human being, diving into the unknown, and she is wide awake.”This book is I think meant to be around the sleepiness and then awakening of the New York art scene, up to and including 2001 – but did not really succeed for me at all. Some of the book is clearly a parody of conceptual art, but that is an art-form which is by its very nature self-parodying and does not need literary assistance.Another of the controversies around Eileen was the author’s admittance (https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...) that she wrote it using a guide to best seller fiction: The 90-Day Novel: Unlock the story within. Good literature in my view needs ability, not how-to-write books, and tellingly this novel provides its own conclusion: I wanted to be an artist, but I had no talent,” I told her. “Do you really need talent?” That might have been the smartest thing Reva ever said to me. “Yes,” I replied. My thanks to Random House for an ARC via NetGalley.
2457896863	FIVE SARDONIC STARS My repeated claim to love unlikable characters is put to the test in this darkly irreverent, strange fable. I’m sticking to my claim. I do love most of the unlikable people in My Year of Rest and Relaxation. Humor goes a long way when writing unpleasant characters! The author is sophisticated and brilliant when it comes to injecting absurdly wry observations on both the glitter and the grime of New York City. Contrary to the lovely 18th century painting of a leisurely young woman gracing the cover, this novel is set in 2000 and 2001. Women have had “fainting spells” for centuries now and the remedy is usually a good lie-in. Sleep is restorative. Beautiful and necessary for good health. This is all our never-named protagonist wants in life. Sleep. Our Sleeping Beauty makes a conscious decision to slumber for one year. “I can’t point to any one event that resulted in my decision to go into hibernation,” the narrator tells us. “I thought life would be more tolerable if my brain were slower to condemn the world around me.”The combination of apathetic, glitzy beauty and horror is a prevalent theme in My Year of Rest and Relaxation. The best comparative books I’ve come up with are: Less Than Zero, The Vegetarian and a little bit The Bonfire of the Vanities What a combo, huh?The obvious timeline will lead you to the impending ending, you know we are headed for 9/11 territory. In a lesser writer’s hands, this would be off-putting and cliched. Moshfegh uses it to dazzling irony and, you better believe, I was stunned into a silent reflection that so few contemporary novels are able to achieve.Just reading about our never-named character craving sleep all the time, seduced my own mind and I could often hear my pillow calling my name while listening to this perfectly narrated audiobook (Julia Whelan-is the goddess of audio acting!). That’s not to imply the book is in any way boring, many parts are unquestionably disturbing. Our girl secures the worst shrink in history and is given pharmaceuticals by the handfuls. She has some of the most sickening, vulgar nightmares which are described in horrifying detail.She endures the nightmares and blackouts as the preferred alternative to her awakened existence. What is she hiding from? Why why why? You will get the answers in this dreamily paced, viciously witty story. You may not like the answers, but Moshfegh doesn't care. She is the one simply holding the mirror. Just like the main character, the novel is vacuous, yet complicated. Blank, yet layered. A spectacularly detached anti-drama. I really love it, but it may not be your cup of tea. BREAKING NEWS: The fabulous Margot Robbie has just optioned the film rights—she would be perfectly cast as our never-named, disturbed Sleeping Beauty!💗
3626767085	this book:luster by raven leilani: like i mean i don’t even know why you girls bother at this point. like, give it up. it’s me. i win. you lose. HAHAHA oh shit hahahahaha yo—‬ comparisons between my year of rest and relaxation and luster seem apt on the surface, as both books boast a very mfa-reminiscent style—highly experimental, almost brusque, and morbidly comedic—and feature dysfunctional women navigating grim realities. the comparisons come to an end there, though. in luster, the dimensions of gender, race, and class come together to create a narrative landscape that feels startlingly fresh, raw, original. even though both of these books fall into what i'd call the "domestic dread" niche, only luster is able to transcend the barren constraints of this style of literary fiction. in my year of rest and relaxation, it's impossible to ignore these barren constraints. the narrative is unable to support growth or change of any kind—up until a rushed climax and poorly written novel closing. readers are forced to sit in the same setting, with the same two characters, while nothing happens for 300 pages. now, this doesn't necessarily mean ottessa moshfegh has set herself up for failure. except ... the main character is unbearable. the choice to make her gratuitously privileged and self-absorbed serves no true narrative purpose. there's no relief from this privilege, no meaningful commentary on her wealth or whiteness, nothing of substance to counteract how painfully boring and banal her story is. she's a thin, conventionally attractive, rich white woman whose continually unchecked racism (particularly when directed at asian characters) becomes, after a point, head-scratching. but i'm supposed to sympathize with her because she has trauma.that's not how it works. i read this novel with all the impatience of an unwilling voyeur. my year of rest and relaxation is a car crash i couldn't look away from, but i did not derive any particular pleasure from following this cast of characters. i also hated the ending. you could smell it coming from a mile away and i firmly believe that cutting the final chapter would have made the question of certain characters' fates far more meaningful than something so predictably overdone. this is one of those books you read purely for the sense of aesthetic and style. there's barely any story to follow and what little exists is stunted by awful characters who are never truly transformed or challenged by their circumstances; attempts to orient analysis of the novel around satire seem to misunderstand even moshfegh’s true narrative aspirations (as she has admitted that my year of rest and relaxation is supposed to do something deeper than comedic irony). if you want to read highly stylized, experimental fiction about dysfunctional women—who are at times hair-pullingly self-destructive and darkly funny—you'll get more bang for your buck with raven leilani's debut luster. instead of following an nyc trust fund brat in and out of sleep, take a harrowing journey with a black woman struggling to stay afloat in a far more fascinating portrayal of new york city.ps if you loved this book and disliked/didn't "get" luster (or simply never bothered to pick up a copy), you need to go study this essay closely: the unbearable whiteness of the 'disaffected young woman' genre by heven haile.
4616490091	4.5 stars. “I did crave attention, but I refused to humiliate myself by asking for it.” my full review Well, this was hell of a ride. Have in mind that there are some trigger warnings before read this one.I started this one a little bit scared if I was gonna like it or hate it... And I loved it!I had a massive mental breakdown a couple days ago, in which I slept like 14 hours, I didn't get up from bed at all and I was... yeah, really fucked up and sad. I picked up this book and continued it just to find out that I can relate with some things (mind you, not all of this) with our mc. I slept almost the whole day just because I wanted to stop feeling. I get why she wanted to sleep and hoping that when she woke up, her life would be different. I get why she wanted to shut all of her thoughts and emotions.The depression was well protrayed in this book and it wasn't so cliché, making the mc cry like a baby, because depression is also about dullness of the emotions (in which I can relate a lot, and I've been told several times that I'm a heartless and cold bitch, lmao) or wanting to escape from her reality, despite of being privileged: she's beautiful, blonde, has a great body and a big ass inheritance.She's not happy, and her only way out is hybernate. If I had the resources, I'd do it too. She finds Dr. Tuttle, a strange woman who gives the mc tons of pills, to make a coctail, which she uses to sleep. However, medication has side efects.This book has many layers, dark humor, an insane amount of sleep, weird dreams and an mc who's selfish, a bitch sometimes, and who's tired.I get why many people hated this book, also why they loved it. Personally, I liked it a lot and didn't see coming the plot twist at the end. previous review: this woman is so unhinged and i'm totally here for it!
4230370531	The girls that get it, get it
4101361677	This book felt more like reading an autobiography as opposed to literary fiction. It appears to me that Moshfegh’s tendency to write horribly bigoted characters is just her way of inserting her own backward beliefs and biases in her work without consequence. Reading this book wasn’t the same experience I would have reading about another flawed character, Moshfegh’s portrayal feels almost intimate in its depiction of the racist, sinophobic, fatphobic, and antisemitic beliefs of the main character—whose name I have already forgotten. Honestly the psychiatrist (who is also conveniently a therapist) was more compelling of a character than the main character was.
2330754227	Pretty brutal and absolutely brilliant.
3685104959	Thanks, I hate it.I can completely understand what the author was *trying* to do here, and I have read other work that touches on similar themes that I've really enjoyed, but for me, the execution here was severely lacking.This book touches on depression, eating disorders, suicide and suicidal ideation, as well as prescription drug abuse and addiction. These are serious issues that many people deal with, and they deserve to be portrayed and explored with respect, fully grounded in reality, expressing that to the reader. The alternative is an absurd take that is so removed from reality that the dark comedy doesn't come across as inappropriate and disrespectful.This book didn't manage to do either.It straddled the line between in an awkward way, both much too exaggerated to feel real, without grounding, mental illness pushed to an extreme for shock value without substance, and yet, somehow, it didn't go far enough. The protagonist's reflections on her struggle were far too flippant, and the framing felt exploitative and gross.The protagonist is so extremely privileged, ignorant, and awful to the people around her. Reading her character felt like an insult to anyone who has dealt with depression but had to keep working because they needed to survive. Her (apparent) best friend's eating disorder is used as the punchline to far too many humourless jokes, and the ending was so ridiculous it made the rest of the book seem almost normal in comparison (it wasn't).No one needs a book that misses the point in the most spectacularly ignorant way while misrepresenting mental illness.If you want to read a book that explores the lack of adequate mental health care for women (the trite advice to "just rest"), I would recommend the vastly superior in every way The Yellow Wallpaper, which is only 30 or so pages long and yet touches the core of this issue in a much more poignant, raw, and effective way.Trigger/Content Warnings: Toxic masculinity, internalized misogyny, racism, classism, fatphobia, EDs, self harm, suicide, prescription drug abuse, animal cruelty, fecesYou can watch me read and review this and four other “Female Rage” books here: https://youtu.be/1P5riTkGZhoYou can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | Twitter| TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
4824245114	as a fellow depressed and sleepy girl i really felt the main character. i love to sleep, i can take up to like 3 naps a day. some days i like to see how many naps i can take. i know the main character is seen as “unlikeable” but tbh as someone who is depressed, seeing people happy or just people in general is annoying this book is really just myonnafication of it all. now obviously i can’t relate to being rich and her white privilege so sometimes reading this it did cause me to roll my eyes. i could also argue that the point of that was to show that money doesn’t equal happiness blah blah. i also just read it as a reason to make the story flow without the readers having to ask “doesn’t she have a job? how does she pay for things” and to make her more unlikable. the main character was entertaining to me i’m sorry she was terrible, a liar and a manipulator and it kept me intrigued. this was more enjoyable to listen to as an audiobook than to physically read. there was some things said that was… questionable so idk how to really feel about that even though the middle dragged i didn’t mind because i there would usually be something the main character said that would throw me off.
3446434430	reread: she’s iconic for a reason. my favourite moshfegh is still eileen, but i understand why this is her most popular book. both times i’ve read it, i’ve fallen into some languid haze that i don’t emerge from until the last page. [full review to come soon because i never wrote one the first time]
3280284500	I really enjoyed this so much!!! Totally unexpected, shes pretty dark, but great. She takes the elements of popular culture and twists the whole thing to a different direction. A lot of those elements are here, beauty, silly films, prescription drugs, new york, consumerism, untalented artists who make a bunch of money. I think my favourite character is the psychiatrist, my hat goes off to that one. Great read, it made not want to leave my house, but I can´t do that anyway, because of the quarantine etc, so it was a perfect fit.
7193976866	i would, in fact, like to sleep for a year too.
4903945795	After finishing this book, I got the finest sleep in recent memory.
4929733618	Actual rating: 4,5I don’t know what it is, but this book hypnotized me. I couldn’t stop reading it and at times it was like I was the character. That’s how invested I was.It was so easy to relate to MC, at times it was even scary (like that time when I caught myself daydreaming how it would be nice to have my own year of rest and relaxation).Reading what this book was about I would never assume that this book would be the one I’d have a hard time putting down.However, thanks to word of mouth I picked it up and now I know I need more of this in my life.I always loved literary fiction, but this whole experience taught me I need to read more of this genre.It’s like every time I read a literary fiction novel I feel richer.This book is no exception.The book is set in early 00s and I love that time period, when technology wasn’t so developed but it was developed enough.The last chapter was the most impactful but if I am being honest, it was my least favorite.
2495762189	I love how Ottessa Moshfegh embraces female characters who at first might seem unlikeable - she gives them a degree of psychological depth that makes it hard not to feel with them. Gradually, Moshfegh peels away the layers of defensive and outright weird behavior and the superficial self-explanations in order to expose what really drives these women - and just like Eileen, the unnamed protagonist of "My Year of Rest and Relexation" is struggling with trauma. The young woman telling the story is a 26-year-old orphan who holds a degree in art history and works at a hip gallery in New York City. Locked up inside herself and shielded by cynicism, she is lonely, deeply depressive and feels stuck in her life. Her solution: She wants to find relief in extensive sleep, so she could be "safe from the miseries of my waking consciousness." After a year of hibernation, she figures, she'd be "renewed, reborn" - so at the core, she wants to sleep in order to be able to wake up from a life she experiences as nightmarish. When she finds a therapist irresponsible enough to prescribe her large doses of various sedatives, she starts her experiment. During the course of the book, we learn more about the sources of her depression, her parents, the NY art and hipster scene (I actually like those people, still I found the descriptions hilarious), her only friend, the insecure Reva, and her older on/off boyfriend Trevor, whom she loves although (or because?) he is not treating her well, to put it mildly. Piece by piece, we get a clearer picture of the protagonist.The way Moshfegh writes about drug abuse reminded my of Tao Lin's infamous Taipeh, in which sedatives are also casually used to block out life. In Moshfegh's book though, the protagonist's fears and desparation feel a lot more plausible. And of course, Moshfegh is just a way, way better writer, her prose feels more urgent and she knows how to punch her readers in the face with her story. Both of them discuss people keen on numbing themselves though, and in times of the opioid crisis, it's hard to argue that this isn't topical literature.Apart from the importance of mildew in the text - everything seems in decay -, I'd also like to point out the role of Whoopi Goldberg (mentioned 23 times in the book!): "Whenever she appeared on-screen, I sensed she was laughing at the whole production. Her presence made the show completely absurd" - our protagonist can't laugh at the production that is her life, and by the end of her experiment, 9/11 will bring yet another twist. I see that Ottessa Moshfegh's books are not for everybody, but I have to say that I am fascinated by what she writes and what she aims to achieve.
2154153793	The unnamed narrator of My Year of Rest and Relaxation may be obscenely privileged, but her life is bleak. She was neglected by her parents (both now dead), maintains an on-off relationship with a ‘reoccurring ex-boyfriend’ who treats her like shit, and has one friend, Reva, whom she despises. ‘I was plagued by misery, anxiety, a wish to escape the prison of my mind and body.’ In 2000, she begins a year-long process of ‘hibernating’ – staying inside her apartment in a narcotic haze, sleeping as much as she can. ‘Nothing else could ever bring me such pleasure, such freedom... safe from the miseries of my waking consciousness.’ She finds an eccentric psychiatrist who’s irresponsible enough to keep prescribing her every sedative on the market, month after month.It is, she claims, ‘the opposite of suicide’. She is obsessed with the idea that she will emerge from her hibernation a new person, a better person, all pain obliterated forever. ‘If I kept going, I thought, I’d disappear completely, then reappear in some new form. This was my hope. This was the dream.’ This irrational vision of rebirth does, in fact, sound a lot like a kind of suicide. Later, she will wonder, ‘what if the only way to sleep is death?’This is a repetitive story. Take drugs, watch videos, sleep, repeat. Wake up; piece together your movements from the detritus in your room. Lie to your terrible therapist. Pretend to listen to your terrible friend. Repeat, repeat, repeat. This was, surprisingly, something I liked about it. It’s a bold narrative choice, and it effectively mimics the way depression saturates everything with dread and makes you feel like you’re sleepwalking through a hopeless, pallid world. But, oh god, the tiresome misanthropy. The hateful obsession with women’s bodies. The moaning about how one’s overprivileged life has failed to meet one’s overprivileged standards. The amount of times the narrator unironically claims she ‘looks like an off-duty model’. The disgust with which she treats her best, and only, friend (who is also horrible, but humanised slightly by her blazing insecurity). The title character of Eileen was filled with hate – but at least she actually was downtrodden and poor and trapped in a horrible life. The narrator of My Year of Rest and Relaxation is rich beyond most people’s wildest dreams, lives on the Upper East Side, and is smart and beautiful. Not that any of this should necessarily mitigate her depression or loneliness, but it does make the bile she spews against others harder to stomach, especially when they’re worse off than she is, which they usually are.Books about unpleasant people behaving unpleasantly always walk a precarious line between brilliantly audacious and just, well, unpleasant. For me, Moshfegh’s debut Eileen was on one side of that line, and her short story collection Homesick for Another World on the other; My Year of Rest and Relaxation lands somewhere between the two. Like Eileen, it is a brutally honest character study, unflinching and razor-sharp. Like Homesick, it is a draining reading experience (this might be fitting or ironic, depending on how deliberate you believe it to be) and, at its worst, it feels pointless.I had a strong reaction to some elements of My Year of Rest and Relaxation, which is why I needed to let it percolate, reread a few parts, to really see how good it is. Look at how perfectly the first chapter is structured – how it holds you fast from the first line. It’s irresistible and smooth and feels entirely effortless. When the book finds its momentum in the penultimate chapter, when the full scope of the narrator’s project is finally realised, it’s magnificent. When everything clicked into place I found myself feeling awed by it. This is a great novel, but like much of Moshfegh’s work, it is hardly ever likeable. I received an advance review copy of My Year of Rest and Relaxation from the publisher through NetGalley.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
6691445269	I’m gonna honest, I read this book for research purposes … I’m not joking. I stopped working 8 years ago and spent 2.5 of those years leaving my house only to buy cigs, fast food drive thrus, and my doctor’s appointments. I thought I could glean a little bit of creative insight into this period of my life. I did not. At least not yet. I have no idea what lessons, if any, can possibly be learned in reading this. The main character is fucked - in a different way than I am/was. She’s a disaster. (Smiley face). 4 stars.
3313983990	Tragically I'm not an undergrad anymore, so I will never be to be asked to compare and contrast this book with "The Yellow Wallpaper" in 2500 words or so. But still, Moshfegh's learnéd tone makes me yearn to put on the old critical reading hat and have a go. I am... compelled. Here, let me try and show you:Reva had an interesting method of mixing her drinks. After each sip of Diet Mountain Dew, she'd pour a little Jose Cuervo into the can to take up the space her sip had displaced, so that by the time she finshed, she was drinking straight tequila. It was fascinating to me.First, this is a 100% relatable thing that I have done myself. But the scenes never stay at the surface, and Moshfegh also takes us through a bit of musing about Zeno's paradox, then unkind memories of a particularly toxic relationship, ending with the observation that "positive thinking is more powerful than negative thinking, even in equal amounts" - a deadpan delivered by the bitch drinking the booze, and pitched to a girl attempting to self-narcotize into a permanent sleep as an escape from life's anxieties. My symbolism sense is tingling!If any of this speaks to you, pick My Year up. The way Moshfegh arranges things, each little node amplifies the bigger signal by reflecting and reiterating the powerful feelings of contemporary malaise, high-functioning anxiety, first-world stress, and a weary need to escape. You can play fun games of literary analysis in how she gets there, searching for and ferreting out meaning. But then, while you're busy with all that academic bull, you'll get blindsided by a dirty joke or a casual description of some guy's dick which, hand to god and I kid you not, makes perfect sense in context.4.5 stars. Brilliant writer, love this voice, love certain passages for their hit-the-nail-on-the-head emotional resonance, but something is lacking - some sense of a bigger connection that stays just out of reach, some convalescence of the banal into redemption. All throughout I got whiffs of The Stranger and The Awakening and the literature of high society, but the story seems too frail to bear the weight of heavy analysis even as the energy leads me to try anyway. Maybe that's the point? Or part of it? I am an anxious person, and reading this felt at times crushingly familiar. I could have quit reading when it got uncomfortable but I continued on, because I felt... compelled. There's no cure for the human condition, there's no "escape" from life. There is daily management, at varying degrees of optimism, and there is a sense of relief in seeing that other people deal with this too, to validate that some elements of life are universal.
5036053163	3.5/5i enjoyed thisi saw myself in her a at the start and then as the sorry progressed i began to hate her lol does that say something about me?? 🤔still not too sure why she did this or if it really had much of an impact but it was a fun wee experiment i guesswas the 9/11 plot line necessary?? idk i always find that a bit distasteful or a cop out overall pretty good tho
2445078284	It’s always a shock when I read a book and I really don’t enjoy it, then I come on to Goodreads and find that almost without exception it’s received 4 and 5* and glowing reviews. But that most certainly has happened here with this, to me, pointless and tedious self-indulgent and pretentious exploration of a young New York woman who decides she hasn’t much time for her privileged life and decides to hibernate for a year in a prescription drug induced stupor. Sleep, she believes, will solve her problems. Our unnamed narrator describes her every drug ingestion and its results, narrates her encounters with her unbelievably unpleasant boyfriend and chronicles her visits to her completely unbelievable psychiatrist. These visits to Dr Tuttle are, I assume meant to be amusing, but they’re so silly that they go beyond humour. The almost obligatory 9/11 reference is included, of course, tacked clumsily on to the end to little or no effect. Just what is the point of this book? Others have got a lot from it, it’s clear, but I fail to see why I should be interested in this waste-of-space young woman and her retreat from daily life.
2451060741	4 Stars! I am overcome by awe, not because she looks like Reva, and I think it's her, almost exactly her, and not because Reva and I had been friends, or because I'll never see her again, but because she is beautiful. There she is, a human being, diving into the unknown, and she is wide awake This was my first Otessa Moshfegh novel and it lived up to the hype. The cover threw me off as it almost has a historical fiction look to it but I will tell you that this is not anywhere near historical fiction.This is a story about a young twenty something, who I just realized never reveals her name as she's the narrator of this book - interesting choice by the author, who has everything and at the same time feels like she has nothing. She lives on the upper east side of Manhattan paid by her inheritance, but her parents are dead. She had a somewhat serious relationship with a guy on wall street but he dumped her for various reasons. She had a decent paying job but then got fired for being lazy. For every positive there's a negative and vice versa.This really is a story about a year of rest but not so much relaxation. The narrator starts to go to the worst psychiatrist that you could ever imagine and she completely over prescribes her medication but this is what the narrator wants. She wants her year of rest and relaxation to be just that - nothing but being blacked out and resting. Frankly, I have no idea how she didn't overdose, I guess her body was able to withstand 5-6 different kinds of drugs a day. The narrator takes us on this journey of her year where she has crazy therapy appointments just to get drugs, tries to get her ex back by threatening her life on the phone, pushing her "best friend" Reva away and ultimately just gliding through the year to restart.This is going to be hard to explain if you haven't read this book but I completely understood and got what the narrator was trying to do and where she was coming from. Her and I are complete opposites personality wise but throughout the story I was finding myself saying I can't relate but at the same time in a weird way I can relate to this. I think her end goal is the same as many of us: sometimes we just want to start over. Did she take it to the extreme? Yes, but everyone has their own journey and this was hers.I took some time to really think about this book while I was reading it and it helped reading it in small bits each night. Although there are some tough situations in this book, I felt the author did a good job getting me to understand the meanings behind what the narrator did. Yes, maybe she blacked out because of pills but I took that as sometimes we try to "black out" our feelings so that we can start over again.Maybe I'm making this more complex than it's supposed to be but this is what I got out of the book and overall I really enjoyed it! It is a work of fiction although I could see how some people may think it is non-fiction. I did chuckle a few times as well. Overall a solid read and I would recommend.
5504358545	Wow... I am in awe of this book. I'm not sure what I expected but it certainly was not that. I was so invested and it made it impossible to put it down but it wasn't until I got to the very end that I realized just how good it really was. The ending!! The story was very different and even weird at times but it made it that much more addicting. Everything about it was perfect and the feeling it leaves you with is insane! Wow...
4620741108	Was this my idea of being ironic about International Workers' Day?Let's put it this way: Moshfegh would approve.hardcore, profane, hallucinatory...INSANE'It was lunacy, this idea, that I could sleep myself into a new life. Preposterous.'Yet sleep she must. Plunging into nothingness, 'floating without a tether', is her one aspiration. A purging of sorts. It is the only way. The only way for her to un-attach herself from things. Things and people. Draining any measure of feeling. Exorcising her deterministic impulses: vanity, desire, and purchasing habits. In other words, all the signs of being in the world, but also of privilege, and her capitalistic existence. Perhaps excluding her VCR player, which religiously keeps her company throughout the initial, hypnotic stages of her sleeping-mission. There is also Reva, of course, her friend from the university days, whom she regards with disgust; an epitome of all that is wrong in the world: banal sentimentality, overemotional exuberance, slavery to weight-loss programmes and beauty standards. And the (psychotic) psychiatrist Dr Tuttle, the narrator's partner in her re-awakening master plan. Not that she - the psychiatrist - knows what she's doing. Because she doesn't, at all. She herself seems to think that it is all about sleeping it all off, literally. Complete sedation. Why not, in fact, keep handing out samples to her - clearly - unhinged patient, and improvising prescriptions along the way? trazodone Ambien Nembutal Solfoton Xanax Neuroproxin Maxiphenphen Valdignore Silencior Seconol Valium Librium Placidyl Noctec Miltown Benadryl Ativan Seroquel lithium Promaxatine melatonin NyQuil Lunesta temazepam Infermiterol Robitussin Zyprexa Risperdal Theraflu Dimetapp My Year of Rest and Relaxation reproduces the state of being in a sustained 'medicated haze', which is another way of saying that the unbearable quality of being - all that is inexplicable about life, death, loss, aloneness - dictates the counternecessity to force feelinglessness upon oneself: hence the narrator's hibernation project. There's a loophole even in her best-laid-plan, though. Between blackouts, her 'unconscious excursions', and dazed days draining away, memories of the past continue to resurface. And she remembers. How terrible it is to be alive. Only drastic measures will do. A descent into bottomless madness. The Blank Slate of all blank slates: 4 months of empty sleep, locked in an empty room, trapped in unconsciousness.What will she find on the other side of life? Is there Beauty at all in being Alive?4.25 stars. This is an emotionally draining, stressful, disturbing novel. Its uniqueness, and dauntless execution, equally mesmerising.
6813648817	➳ 2.5 ☆"my year of rest and relaxation" is a novel that i have seen going around for a few years, where i have only ever heard pragmatic reviews of the prose and the characters. while i can appreciate what moshfegh was trying to convey, i personally found nothing appealing about this novel; and felt rather bereft. this is going to be a very different review for me. the subject and content matter isn't meant for cutesy and over the top reviews, like i customarily provide. ➼ the narrator (aka our main character) ~ is a very beautiful and privileged "wasp", who is living in her manhattan luxury apartment. although she has prerogatives—as opposed to her peers—she is deeply unhappy and disenchanted with her life. we are propelled into her story, where she recounts how she was fired from her job due to her sleeping in the office, and her parents passing years prior. while yes, all of these at the time seemed like a good driving factor, ultimately the reason this didn't work for me, is the the fact that there was TOO much going on. there was a direction that moshfegh started to take us, but somewhere in the middle she started to incorporate unnecessary details and flowery description, which took me out of the narrative. there’s nothing coherently erroneous, i just didn’t connect with her nodus.➼ our narrator struggles after the death of her parents, despite her saying otherwise, and we can see the manifestation of her guilt and trauma that has progressed negatively overtime. she turned to her louche psychiatrist for medication in order to "hibernate", and these tactics are a form of self medication for her. in a way, this was the only segment of this novel that i could relate to, and felt salient. she also tended to isolate herself aside from seeing her only friend—reva and her therapist dr. tuttle. although she recounts her self isolation as "self medication", we can see that this is more akin to self harm and destruction. ⤷ "i was both relieved and irritated when reva showed up, the way you’d feel if someone interrupted you in the middle of suicide. not that what i was doing was suicide. in fact, it was the opposite of suicide. my hibernation was self-preservational. i thought that it was going to save my life."➼ lastly, it is also relevant to disect reva and our main characters’ relationship with each other. although they call each other "friends", it is difficult to believe that judging by their actions. reva is described as being very insecure by our main character. both of them simultaneously—but most inaccurately—perpetuate their own biases onto each other. a lot of their relationship shows a back and forth dynamic with very little growth and change, until the end where everything is wrapped up quite quickly. reva quickly got tired of our main characters antics and no longer has interest in their friendship. we can decipher a lot from the open ended conclusion that not everything is always as it seems. ⤷ “lucky you,” reva said. “i wouldn’t mind taking time off from work to loaf around, watch movies, and snooze all day, but i’m not complaining. i just don’t have that luxury.”overall, i just wanted to know what the hype was about. i didn't hate the concept or the writing—i think ottessa delivered what she set out to write. a lot of this—while it seems outlandish—is accurate to individuals and therefore i can appreciate the craft for what it is. as someone who has suffered from depression, the narrator's struggles are portrayed quite meticulous. my main issue is the fact that she was consistently annoying and unlikeable for the entire duration of the book. while i understand that is the point moshfegh wanted to delineate—where i have contention from this book is mainly from HOW i felt, not so much the prose and delivery.
3132375981	'My Year of Rest and Relaxation' is a brilliantly crafted tale of alienation and estrangement. The novel begins when the main character's struggles with emptiness and detachment become so palpable that she decides to become a recluse for a year, with the help of opioids and tranquilizers. The young woman discloses everything to the reader, making very stark confessions about her childhood and her dysfunctional relationships with the only two people she has left in her life. Zero censorship is spared as the novel follows her carrying out her very questionable experiment that she believes will transform her as a person. The novel is a strangely enjoyable read at parts. Threaded with dark humor; it gives an insight into the modern art scene in New York City. However, its tragic ending and bleak message about the innate self, make it a mostly cold and hopeless depiction of isolation.
5099532757	This is the kind of book that I would need to write an essay on in order to get it out of my system.
2503316600	What did I just listen to? If it weren’t for narrator Julia Whelan I probably would have canned this one. (She was brilliant!) Well actually who am I kidding, no I wouldn’t. It was a book club pick and I don’t like showing up to book club unprepared so I would have suffered reading this one (thank goodness it was an audio instead).At the start of it I was confused: I wasn’t sure if I loved it or hated it. I was intrigued, it was entertaining to start, and there is no doubt that the author’s quick wit and sharp tongue made for an interesting story. An hour or so in, I thought “I think I missed the narrator’s first name,” but would realize it was never mentioned: that is how much I was paying attention.The whole book was just his uppity, privileged, vain young woman who cons her crazy psychologist to prescribe her loads of pills so she can essentially sleep for a year. She is definitely suffering from grief and depression from the loss of her parents and I would feel for her, but over time she just frustrated me. She was rude, selfish, and flippant. After too many chapters of her taking pills and just sleeping, it got old.Then the ending happened. I think it was meant to be this profound last sentence, but I thought it trivialized a moment in history and it actually angered me. I can’t explain why, it’s just the immediate emotion I felt once the last sentence was uttered.I am feeling quite dramatic writing this review, so if you loved it – or even agreed – let me know, I would love to hear from you.To read my reviews visit: www.saturdaynitereader.com
2391443734	This is a book narrated by a very depressed and beautiful young woman who has graduated from college, works in an art gallery, and lives in New York, the year is 2001. She was recently lost both her parents, her father to cancer, and her mother close afterward from pills/alcohol. She also has an awful relationship with a man who is on again off again.So... she decided she needs a year of rest, to just sleep for a year, consistently. She finds a psychiatrist who really is a horrible doctor, a pill pusher.. and gets everything she needs, more then she needs from her, and then we follow her through her journey ... along with her one friend Reva, a gal she was in college with and really the only friend mentioned besides the sometimes boyfriend.Some of this is hilarious.... just a few laugh out loud moments, but the majority is very dark.Thank you to Netgalley and Penguin Press for the digital book.
7241010014	Zrobiła ze mną „coś” — ciekawe podsumowanie wejścia w XXI wiek, próba zobrazowania życia w jednej z najznamienitszych metropolii na świecie w krzywym zwierciadle i… to zakończenie. Intrygujące.
4509325578	i love unhinged women
5489368528	well that’s 24 hours of my life i’m never getting back
5931055907	There are so many mixed reviews for this one, but I personally LOVED IT. My Year of Rest and Relaxation is a darkly comedic novel that follows an unnamed young woman living in New York City in the year 2000. She is wealthy, detached, and emotionally numb, struggling with the recent death of her parents and a broken relationship. Seeking an escape from her existential malaise, she decides to undergo a year of “rest and relaxation” by taking a cocktail of prescription drugs under the guidance of a bizarre psychiatrist.As she spends most of her days sleeping, drifting in and out of consciousness, she reflects on her life, her relationships, and her own disconnection from the world. Throughout the novel, she grapples with issues of identity, privilege, and the desire to avoid pain, all while maintaining an ironic, detached tone. Her attempt at self-imposed hibernation becomes a means of self-destruction and absurdity, leading her to confront her inability to connect with others or to find meaning in her life.The whole time I was listening to this story, I was thinking to myself, “I would love to rot in bed all, please” lol She was so delusion, I loved it, Like instead of addressing her pain or trying to find a healthy way to cope, she literally attempts to sleep her way through life, treating her own existence like a experiment. A delulu queen. 💅🥳 Also her bizarre relationship with her psychiatrist??? Dr. Tuttle, is hilariously incompetent and morally questionable. She prescribes increasingly excessive medications, seemingly uninterested in actually helping her patient. The therapy sessions where the psychiatrist’s lack of professionalism is played for laughs highlights the dark comedy of a system that enables the protagonist’s self-destructive behavior rather than challenging it. This novel is filled with situations and observations that are both tragic and comically detached, reflecting the main characters emotional numbness and privilege. the main character emotionally distant nature made this a great audiobook. Her ironic, deadpan narrative voice turns tragic situations into moments of dark humor. She describes personal tragedies, like the death of her parents or the collapse of her relationships, in a tone that is almost indifferent or detached, making light of her own suffering. ALSO THE ENDING?!?!This novel explores themes of isolation, self-destruction, and the search for purpose, all through the lens of dark humor and biting satire. Ultimately, it’s a story about the complexities of self-care, the numbness of privilege, and the lengths to which one might go to escape facing reality.
2427433018	one of the most engrossing and fascinating stories i've ever read. the last page + line just kicked me in the stomach
2335835815	❀ blog ❀ thestorygraph ❀ letterboxd ❀ tumblr ❀ ko-fi ❀ 4 ½ stars “Sleep felt productive. Something was getting sorted out. I knew in my heart—this was, perhaps, the only thing my heart knew back then—that when I’d slept enough, I’d be okay. I’d be renewed, reborn. I would be a whole new person, every one of my cells regenerated enough times that the old cells were just distant, foggy memories. My past life would be but a dream, and I could start over without regrets, bolstered by the bliss and serenity that I would have accumulated in my year of rest and relaxation.”I listened to the audiobook of My Year of Rest and Relaxation over the course of 4 days. During this period of time I was sleeping very little (the joys of work and uni assessment). And maybe that's why I really felt this book. That and the fact that 2021 is proving to be just as delirious a year as 2020. Although My Year of Rest and Relaxation was by no means a breezy read (or listen) it was funny in the most fucked up kind of way. It made me laugh and cringe, it disgusted me and amused me.My Year of Rest and Relaxation is a novel that has been in my periphery ever since its publication back in 2018. I even picked it up at one point but didn't get past the 10% mark. I have noticed that lately there have been quite a few publications narrated by 'perplexingly alienated' young American women (here you can read an excellent article on this trend) and I these tend to be very hit or miss for me (I loved Luster, enjoyed Severance and Pizza Girl, did not think very highly of Exciting Times, Milk Fed, or The New Me). Finally, nearly three years after its release, I thought why not give My Year of Rest and Relaxation another chance? And this time around, once I started reading (listening) I did not want to stop. As I said above, this novel is by no means 'light', but boy was it entertaining (and it took my mind off my own need for sleep).Set in 2000s New York This novel is narrated by a nameless narrator (because duh, narrators with names are passé) a woman in her twenties. She's attractive, skinny, and blonde. She can even afford not to work and has her own flat in New York. Aaaaand she is an orphan, having lost both parents in quick succession. Still, she has plenty of reasons to be happy...right? Except she isn't. This girl is pretty fucking miserable. She's extremely self-centered, extremely misanthropic, cruel, delusional...the list goes on. But our narrator has a plan. As she finds her life unbearable she decides—you guessed it—to have a year of rest and relaxation. In other words, she is going to be eating sleeping tablets and other medications as if they were tic tacs (or smarties or popcorn...take your pick). She wants to sleep life away, believing that by the end of the year she will be 'restored' to health. Once a month she sees a psychiatrist, Dr. Tuttle, someone who is very much a menace to society let alone her patients. Our protagonist's sleep schedule is also interrupted by her best friend, Reva, who she can hardly stand: “I loved Reva, but I didn’t like her anymore”. To our narrator's annoyance, Reva seems to revel in her own victimhood. Reva is also painfully insecure, bulimic, possibly alcoholic, and her mother terminally ill. Our narrator has little time for Reva, ignoring her pleas for help or affection, and tries to remain focused on her 'rest & relaxation'. As the narrative progresses we learn more about her family life, her tense relationship with her mother (a real piece of work), and her on-again-off-again boyfriend (a massive bellend). Some of the medications our protagonist begin to influence her state of mind during her waking hours, so she often seems to operate under a trance. In spite of its relatively short length, Moshfegh achieves so much within this novel. This is a brilliant work of satire. The narrator's inner-monologue is as fascinating as it is repulsive (the girl has a sick sense of humor). And while I found most of the characters horrible, and at times intentionally absurd, this novel is disconcertingly realistic (especially in the portrayal of the relationship between the mc and her best friend....which was a weird flavor of codependency). Alienation is at the root of this story and Moshfegh demonstrates a cunning understanding of this subject.Subversive, grotesque, surreal, shockingly funny, and surprisingly insightful My Year of Rest and Relaxation is fucked up in the best way possible.
3760041538	very very very torn on what to rate this. on one hand it felt just so relaxing to read and something about it was so intoxicating. on the other it was very anticlimactic and slow paced, not everyone’s cup of tea. so i feel slightly disappointed while somehow really into it????
5865878825	reading this as a burnt out 24-year-old hits different........
4407443427	I hate her I am also her
4869031401	In my late teens and early twenties, I suffered from crippling insomnia. All my waking hours were spent zoomed in on just one thought: sleep. My overwhelmed brain couldn’t make sense of anything back then, couldn’t form many coherent thoughts. Sleep was an aphrodisiac. I was certain that a precious few hours of non-existence would fix everything. My life was like a stream-of-consciousness book, it was one thing after another merging together, without any structure or continuity. I longed for the ellipsis, the breaks. When I was finally put on meds for my problem and learned how to sleep again, I discovered something that made all my experiences with insomnia seem even more meaningless than I had presumed them to be - sleep only reinforced the reality of my waking hours, and made it more concrete. As though I was supposed to face everything with a new vigor (that I couldn’t muster) because I’d had my rest, my escape.So, when the protagonist of this book just decided to sleep for a year hoping to construct a new self upon waking up, I could relate to her. Except, I also knew that the self that emerges out of sleep need not necessarily be a new one. It often isn’t. We try and try and try to understand our waking hours, and yet they elude our grasp. This closed circuit of sleeping and waking up day after day after day is tiring, and of course, we would all like to sleep away a year. Or two. Not everybody dares to do it though. I don’t. The protagonist lived my dream life in this sense. But her life after the break, after the hibernation, didn’t seem to be very different. However, when she finally woke up, she saw that the world itself was fractured and she could feel one with it.Sleep seems like a fantasy, but so does life sometimes. Like you’re on the outside watching it pass in front of you. Like you’re not the fragile center around which it constructs, structures, and dismantles itself. Like your life is a train and you’re on the platform watching it speed away. It is those moments that we cling to, that we try to recover in sleep. Because in sleep we don’t look upon things as they are, we are fundamentally unable to do so. Sleep is those fun mirrors we find in fairs, offering a distortion of ourselves back to us. And it is this image that we, like the protagonist of this book, covet.
2858315413	Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/6P6TH9ZMH2k"Una scarpa con il tacco alto che si sfilava e si librava sopra di lei, l'altra aggrappata al piede come se fosse troppo piccola, la camicetta che le usciva dalla vita, i capelli che volavano, gli arti rigidi mentre precipita, un braccio alzato, come un tuffo in un lago d'estate. Eccola, un essere umano che si tuffa nell'ignoto, ed è perfettamente sveglia."
2479379299	I could barely stand this book. And that’s a mark of it’s great skill at rendering its subject, a number of flaws, and an extremely dissatisfying, clunky conclusion. The risk of writing something about a truly awful, privileged person’s severe, mind numbing, repetitive depression is that, you know, that’s what it will feel like. The writing feels heavy, and gets heavier. It’s effective, it makes you a part of the depression in a clever way, especially if you read large chunks at once, which shows great skill... but you know... it also does that. And that’s tough to struggle through. So obviously a mindfuck that if you have any kind of struggle with depression you may wish to avoid. I probably would have avoided it myself if I knew what this was going to be like. It’s hard to motivate yourself to keep going through it. Had I not had a library deadline, I think I might have put it down on my library shelf and felt a overwhelming tiredness about the idea of ever picking it up again.And the kicker is that after she puts the reader through everything she does, it seems like she didn’t know to wind it up: and so we get this weirdly heavy handed and clumsy 9/11 symbol of an ending that wasn’t just anti climatic, it was from another book entirely. It felt tacky and tacked on-maybe even she couldn’t bear to go on with it?Depression doesn’t have a point, and that is surely why this didn’t have one and I respect that....but I just can’t imagine who I would recommend this to. It certainly wouldn’t be people who would relate and know best what she’s talking about, people with depression. And the other people who need to read this, the people who are assholes about depression and think it just means being sad, won’t read it. So who is this for? Is this Garden State 15 years out of date? I don’t think so. We’re done with that as a culture, I think. Unbearable Lightness of Privilege I guess, via depression? I find that less than compelling. The end suggests another possible purpose that I don’t even want to engage with- so I think making us live through what depression is like must be it. She succeeded too well in doing that, I guess. I’ll throw on some more stars for that but I honestly don’t think you should read it.
4671335186	that was fun
7599590256	4 stars“Outside of the occasional irritation, I had no nightmares, no passions, no desires, no great pains.”This book nailed my entire existence in just one sentence. 🥹I really got so intrigued with the premise of this book. Really, how can you make a book about sleeping for a year be interesting? Well, dare I say Miss Moshfegh kinda did it.I loved how interesting all the characters are, and of course, I loved how we are invited into the muddy, drugged mind of our main character. Just so random, jumbly, and mushroomy 🍄if you know what I mean. I promise you, this is the kind of book that would be etched on your mind long after you read it.But I have something to complain about too. I didn’t like how our Missy here described her love toward Whoopi Goldberg, especially how she pictured “Whoopi’s vajayjay.” That made me uneasy. It was just a little sentence, but I really cringed at it. It made me so uncomfortable. You could have a wacky imagination about any fictional person you like, but toward a real person, no. I think that was my boundary.Oh, and I should talk about how the chapter ending really convinced me that I would remember this book. I gave it 3.5 stars after I read it. And as I type this, I think I would give it 4 stars, just because of how this book really intrigued me even after days.And because of this book, here I am manifesting myself to reach the kind of financial freedom our main character had and just sleep and rot in bed. What a dream. “I’d wasted so much time on unnecessary labor when I could have been sleeping and feeling nothing.”
4351191274	So many of my friends have read and loved this book (and some authors who’s work I love have praised it), I suppose it was just a matter of time before I got around to it – but I was hesitant. The synopsis made me feel like this would either be brilliant or intolerable. And then, Vintage printed this evocatively artsy collection called “Vintage Heroines” (which also includes an edition of “Madame Bovary”, a book this one if frequently compared to) and I couldn’t resist. Come on, look at this elegant train wreck on the cover! The art department at Vintage deserves a raise because I hate this book’s more common cover art and yet I didn’t hesitate for a second before buying a copy of this new edition.So. Is this book self-indulgent garbage or clever symbolic satire? That’s the question I asked myself watching the first two seasons of “Girls”, which is more similar to this book than “The Bell Jar”, despite sharing the theme of feminine depression in New York City. And sort of like with “Girls”, I think enjoyment of it really depends on the reader’s perspective and lived experience.A very privileged (rich, white, blonde, thin, pretty) young woman decides to spend a year in her apartment, watching television and medicating herself into a state of hibernation as a way to deal with a lingering depression, hoping that by the time she has accumulated a year’s worth of rest, she can get back to her life with more motivation and enthusiasm than she can muster before the beginning of her little experiment. Her parents are dead, and the only people she sees somewhat regularly are an insecure “best friend”, a horribly douchy on-and-off “boyfriend” and an absolutely unhinged “therapist” who gives her prescriptions for the most mind-boggling cocktail of mood-elevators and sleeping aids.As I read this, I was both confused and amused. I sighed, I cringed, I scoffed. The prose is good, unflinching and acerbic, the narrator both very insightful and totally oblivious. It’s basically a bit of a roller-coaster which goes from witty observation about the art scene and it’s appalling similarity to the stock market and musings about the narrator’s parents that make it very clear that she is suffering from a weird mixing of PTSD from parental emotional abuse and the grief of losing them both quite suddenly. But those actual issues are never tackled: all she wants is to sleep and take those very weird meds that make her blackout for days at a time and wake up to strange objects she does not remember buying, or photos of herself out and about to events that she can’t recall attending.I have met real people like the unnamed narrator, people who are in such deep denial of their trauma that they self-medicate with all kind of truly bizarre and grotesque behaviors - substances of various kinds only being one of the “medications” used to isolate themselves from the root-cause of their malaise (for example, I have seen people embrace veganism and yoga with a passion as a form of self-medication – granting themselves permission to be self-righteous about their lifestyle is merely a bonus, the ultimate goal being to distract themselves from trauma they refuse to address). If anything, this book is a scalding statement about the fact that most people would rather do anything (and I mean anything) rather than confront the things that are actually hurting them.There is no real plot to this book, and the rather odd ending leads me to believe that the narrator’s experiment may not have had quite the intended effect. And not unlike my experience with “Girls”, I finished this wondering if Moshfegh had a deeper point than simply making her readers wince. I think that it’s interesting that we have come to this place culturally, where we can admit that life is full of very cringey moments, and that we can integrate them to art, because after all, they are real moments. But is it suppose to soothes us, reassure us that we are not the cringiest person on Earth?I hesitated between 3 and 4 stars, but I am sticking to 4 because this book, while incredibly weird, left me with quite a few questions – as any good piece of art ought to. And it certainly is an entertaining read, though it really is nothing like what I expected, and certainly nothing like that cover art of a young Regency woman sitting there looking thoughtful hints at!
