3680274024	i was clear, single-minded and focused while i was reading this book , I paid attention to every detail and each word that's why i disliked it a bit. Clearly this is a ya mystery so drama comes with it and i like drama when it's done correct. I felt there were moments when it's overdone like some tricks they did to pull there opponents down. But then again there weren't genius of prodigy students it's the least what they could think of so I was fine with it.I feel sorry for Avery because she is stupid and was clearly stitched up by everyone. Olivia played smart IMO but her character saw zero development throughout the book. She was a "poor girl" on scholarship and by the end she remained one. None of the other characters were appealing.(view spoiler)[ the ending was a major letdown , it's always the boyfriend and it's always jealous , teem hormone rules (hide spoiler)]- none of the twists were appealing and intersting I saw them from a mile away.So like overall this was a decent read because ~ it was short ~ the writing is pacy and author have a flair with words (which I don't)--------- pre review disappointed 2.75 stars / review to come---------tbr review:-I see it.I like it.I want it.when will i get it?*cries*
3917146055	Trigger Warnings: death, alcohol, bullying and blackmail, toxic relationships, some mentions of disordered eating.(*note: the disordered eating was neither explicit or acknowledged, but I know people recovering from/struggling with EDs can be triggered by a lot of seemingly minor or random things (ie. digital numbers might remind them of the numbers on a scale) so I put that there just in case.*) Thank you to Netgalley for providing me an ARC! Why the hell am I so obsessed with elite-private-school murder mysteries?guys one of my friends is going to a prestigious residential private school next year and now I’m lowkey scaredWhen I was deciding which book I wanted to download for my road trip, I kind of...didn’t feel like reading The Ivies. I spent about ten minutes debating whether or not I wanted to download this ARC. But then I did anyway and -I spent the whole six hours reading. And then I finished the book.“I have to watch my back. Play the part.I’ll have to test my acting chops tonight, pretend to play the part. Pretend I might not be ringing in the New Year with a killer.”The premise of this book sounded pretty standard for a bitchy murder mystery - elite private school, scholarship-student main character, a popular clique of the most elite and the most gorgeous students - but the beginning still swept me away.The Ivies are the five-member friend group of popular girls all assigned to get into individual Ivy League schools. They tear other students down so that they have all the top spots to secure their entries to top-tier universities. They’re ruthless, beautiful and cruel.“I guess I’m a bitch, too. It’s an unfortunate side effect of being an Ivy.”Their leader, Avery Montfort, has claimed her spot at Harvard. Unbeknownst to her, the main character Olivia Winters has also applied to Harvard...even though she’s supposed to be applying to Penn.On the day application decisions are sent out, Olivia is accepted to Harvard. And Avery is rejected.Emma, their friend and another member of the Ivies, has also secretly gotten into Harvard. Avery finds out.And the next morning, Emma is found dead.“I stare agog at my friend and her Machiavellian musings. Is this really only about competitive advantage for college?”This plot had me suspecting so many people and seriously questioning basically everyone except Olivia and Detective Cataldo (because...you know, she’s the detective). The storyline was so engaging and I became invested in the story almost immediately.There were so many red herrings and missed clues and hidden secrets and I was just shook at literally every twist. Because I’m gullible like that.I did actually guess the murderer though, which was surprising.These characters seriously had me screaming. It’s hard to develop the sides and layers of a character over just one standalone book, but somehow Alexa Donne pulled it off. There was diversity, there were contrasting sides, and there was development.“Having a weakness is dangerous where Avery Montfort is concerned.”Avery Montfort - the ringleader of the Ivies. She’s beautiful, skinny, and set straight for Harvard by instruction of her rich, toxic, triple-Harvard-legacy mother. Her family also owns one of the biggest pharmaceutical companies in the world. She’s the most prominent out of all the other characters, save for Olivia.I loved Avery. She was a bitch, but her characterization had me shook. Her secrets and lies and just overall badassery made me love her so much. She’s the classic mean girl, but something about how Avery’s character was delivered just made me attached.“In a school of elites, Avery has a way of attracting the very best to stand by her side. President of the Girls Who Code club, Claflin chapter, Sierra had figured out how to hack into the school’s administrative system before spring semester freshman year, and it remains her most useful asset as in Ivy.”Sierra - she was a strong, steady character, and yet I wasn’t sure how I felt about her. I liked her for a bit and then I didn’t, but she wasn’t the one who changed. It was the circumstances and the plot and my own opinion, and I thought that it was interesting that she could stay the same and give me so many conflicting opinions.“Margot is the school’s premiere actress, surely Broadway bound; she can charm (ie., deceive) teachers and students alike.”Margot - she was the most bland out of the Ivies, but I liked that she still had her own personality and dangers to her. We didn’t really get a lot of her on the page. She was smart, scheming, and an amazing actress, and that’s really all we need to know.“Emma’s the social Renaissance woman, in with every conceivable group. As captain of FIRST Robotics, first-chair flute in band, butterfly champion on the swim team, and tech director for the drama club, Emma’s got a finger in every pie.”Emma - the victim of the murder. She was...interesting.Emma appeared to be the “good-girl” character at first. Nice, unassuming, and talented, with a rebellious boyfriend. She wasn’t actually that nice, since we know that all of the Ivies were bitches, and she wasn’t that unassuming, since we know that the Ivies were conniving, but compared to everyone else she was the “good girl”.As Sierra described her:“That girl lives in her own universe, where she’s the smartest and nicest person, tee-hee, and how could anyone ever think otherwise? Always pushing shit too far and then acting innocent when things blow up.”Finally, Olivia Winters - our main character, scholarship student, and the only lower-middle-class member of the Ivies...or really Claflin Academy. She’s smart and hardworking, but is considered the “extra” friend - as in, the Ivies don’t include her in half their shit. Her narrative was intense. I liked her and she was definitely a strong, relatable character.“I’ll never stop marveling at rich kids getting upset about other people calling them rich. They’re so sensitive.”After Emma’s death, Olivia starts investigating. Part of it is because Emma was her roommate, but it’s also because Avery and Emma got into a fight over Harvard. The last thing that Avery said to Emma was “I could kill you for this.”“The lead weight of doubt settles in my stomach. The question Did Avery kill Emma because of Harvard? is feeling less and less ridiculous. Avery is hiding something. And Sierra and Margot may be in on it.”Unfortunately, this investigation that Olivia launches uncovers a little bit too much. Emma, apparently, was not the perfect girl that everyone thought she was.Of course, this prompts Olivia to start digging deeper.The setting was so good. Claflin Academy felt like a real school, albeit similar to a lot of other private schools in the other murder mysteries I’ve read. I felt like I could imagine everything and I understood the whole hierarchy. Let’s be honest, we’ve all dreamed of being those gorgeous clique-y billionaire kids.“That’s Claflin Academy in a nutshell; private, elite, and bleeding bullshit from every red-bricked building.”The atmosphere was perfect. It was just the right amount of creepy, tense and bitchy. It really contributed to the mystery and the unsolved questions, and it made the different suspects just seem...more suspicious. It was that mysterious “never-trust-anyone” vibe that I’m obsessed with in these kinds of books.“Something is wrong. I feel it in my bones, like when you enter a room and know people were just talking about you. Or like a ghost walking over your grave. My mom always says that, though it doesn’t really make sense. And yet...that feeling.”In my opinion, there didn’t need to be romance. It was a good aspect, but it wasn’t really needed (although that might just be me being tired of having so many romances in every single book I read). Their dynamic was great, and it provided a lot to the plot, but I feel like Olivia’s and Ethan’s relationship would have given us the same through a platonic dynamic.“Are you trying to shunt all the investigation work onto me?” Ethan teases. I like this, us being playful with each other. It’s distracting me from being terrified.“No.” I grin at him. “I have the hardest job of all.”“And what’s that?”“Going to war with the Ivies.”I loved the Ivies, though. I loved the whole bitchy aesthetic that they gave. They were cruel, ambitious bitches, and they were completely fine with it. I know I would hate them with all my soul if they existed, but reading about soulless monsters of teenage girls is such an experience.“Tears prick at my eyes, finally. I am not a sociopathic monster. With friends like Avery, I worry sometimes.”I’m honestly a little bit tired of the whole girl-who-doesn’t-fit-in trope. Because naturally every protagonist of a rich boarding school mystery will be the scholarship student who’s a charity case for the popular kids. She’s always left out, even though everyone else thinks she’s part of them. She doesn’t have fancy clothes and rich lawyers. She’s just average and they’re elite. Etc.“Why does it matter who knew? Or is our plan to rat us all out? You’re not one of us, Liv, and we know it. Why do you think we left you off the group text? You can’t be trusted. Always playing the victim.”It’s just getting tired. Give me an elite billionaire-class bitch who is actually nice. You don’t have to be “poor” (AKA average) to be nice.“I never did think you fit in with them. You didn’t make sense.” Ethan narrows his eyes, thoughtful.”Speaking of rich bitches, Avery. I know I already gushed talked about her earlier in the character section, but she was basically the embodiment of another tired, overused trope - the Blonde Queen Bee™. Why is every single top bitch blonde, skinny, tanned, and gorgeous, with sparkling blue eyes? I’m a bitch and I’m tan-skinned Asian, and I’m not even pretty. Seriously, I feel cheated.“This is what Avery and I have the most in common. Self-soothing through food. She has to be in a very bad place to carb load on junk food, though. Usually her version of stress eating is swapping out her light balsamic salad dressing for creamy ranch.”I did like the writing of this book. It wasn’t extraordinary or really that different, but I think it perfectly suited the vibe of the book and delivered pretty much everything that you need a writing style to deliver. The tone, voice and atmosphere matched everything else perfectly. There were a few typos and grammar errors, but that’s honestly kind of normal for ARCs? So it wasn’t a big deal. I could overlook them pretty easily.“I get close enough to see, really see, the body. Because it has to be a body. It’s not moving.It. When do you cease to be a person and start to be a body?”I think the best thing about this book was the drama. There were so many secrets being revealed, so much tension and suspicion, and the plot twists and red herrings were just so intense. I was swept into this book from the first three chapters and from there it was just one thing after another. The pacing was fast and the plot twists were everywhere and it felt like I couldn’t keep up.That might just be because I sat down and read this book in one sitting, but still.“Tyler launches into a fine speech about all the things he loved about his girlfriend, and I can’t help but feel jaded. The Emma he describes is perfect, but I now know my friend was far from it. If I’d come to know all of Emma’s secrets before she died, would I still have liked her? Will she now forever be crystallized as a saint because she died young and tragically?”Overall, this was definitely the best ARC I’ve read yet (LMAO this is my third one, that’s not a solid judgement). This was intense, harsh, and dramatic, and yet none of it was even that unrealistic. I loved the drama and the secrets and the mystery, and how twisted some of the characters were, and I loved the ending. It seriously shook me. The Ivies carries messages about being popular, being ambitious, and being cruel, and I was invested.
4074518664	I'll start this review by saying that I have seen a number of Alexa Donne's youtube videos, and am aware of her presence on authortube. I think that's worth pointing out, since her success on authortube makes it difficult to separate the art from the artist when reviewing her book. She's known for giving writing and publishing advice, so perhaps I'm holding her to a higher standard, but I found this book very underwhelming.To be frank, I think Alexa would make a better editor or literary agent than a writer, since she obviously knows a lot about the industry side of things (you can see this from her youtube videos) but lacks the innate feel for plot and character that makes a writer. Her books are very by-the-numbers and tropey, as you would expect from someone with an understanding of industry trends but no organic vision as an artist. It's clear she's better at giving advice than taking it, and I actually would recommend some of her industry-oriented youtube videos if you're interested in publishing, despite some of the racist remarks and casual contempt for whiteness that she portrays in some of her videos. (Just ignore her invalidating white people's opinions on race based solely on the color of their skin, since, as a white person, she's ironically trying to invalidate her own opinion on the topic. Alexa's not the brightest bulb or the most self-respecting when it comes to that topic, obviously.)In any event, let's get into the analysis of the book.Pros:-Donne's prose is smooth and polished, for the most part. On a sentence level, she's not a bad prose writer-The premise had promise and if well-executed, could have been really interesting-it's a short, undemanding read-there may be some young person out there who needs to hear that the insane pressure to get into a good college is not the end-all be-all of your teenage existence, and if this book provides that message to someone, that's greatCons:-The Ivies is sold as a thriller, despite the author coming from a romance background, but I found the pacing sluggish-the mystery elements were predictable and the revelation of the killer fell flat. The killer's motivation is the first generic thing you would think of-the book leans into half-baked social commentary about poverty and classism, since the narrator is the token poor girl surrounded by wealthier students at an elite boarding school where her social group is fixated on the prospect of getting into an Ivy League college. This felt more like a byproduct of the author feeling obligated to acknowledge that the characters are in a privileged position rather than any real satire or commentary on class or society. If you want to write a trashy contemporary about rich kids being bad, just do it, Alexa, you don't have to pretend there's a legitimate hot take embedded in your trashy YA book. Pick a lane.-The Ivies is tagged as LGBT+, but Donne is clearly afraid of being accused of appropriation, as the LGBT+ aspect of the book is mostly just a reference to things that happen off-page, and not something that's really focused on. Why bother?-None of the characters really appealed to me that much. I didn't hate them, but like a lot of things in this book, they came across as forgettableFinal thoughts: You know when you hear about books that "don't pull any punches"? Yeah, The Ivies is not one of them. The author never fully commits to anything. Anything that might have been interesting is left half-baked and Donne lacks either the skill or the insight to push deeper. But she doesn't commit to the opposite, either. This could have just been a trashy YA drama that wasn't striving to be anything more. And that would have been fine. But Donne doesn't pull that off either. Perhaps because of her success as an authortuber and her online reputation, the author seems afraid to take risks or commit to anything outside of safe, industry-approved tropes and standards.It's almost like having a built-in audience from youtube allows you a modest degree of success without ever having to realize that you're not as good as you think you are. Imagine that.
3126339077	This book was a ton of fun! I thoroughly enjoyed my time reading it as I did with Alexa Donne's other two novels. I've been reading a lot of thrillers lately so I got my hands on this book at the perfect time! There was a bunch of twists and turns throughout this book that kept me guessing all the way through. It is a murder mystery at a boarding school with a group of mean girls involved. These girls will do anything to get into an Ivy League school and their vibes reminded me a lot of the girls from Pretty Little Liars. These mean girls are obviously super unlikeable at first, but what was surprising was how I grew to respect one of them by the end of the novel. I never thought that would happen to be honest and it was quite satisfying. At first, I had no idea who the murderer was, but towards the end of the book I had a solid theory that ended up being right. Alexa added a few twists that made me question my theory a few times though so it still was a satisfying conclusion. I definitely recommend giving this book a try!
3929128932	The Ivies by Alexa Donne is a young adult thriller set in an elite boarding school. The students in this school are more than ambitious and when it comes to getting into the best colleges they pull out all the tricks to do better than their peers but the questions is what is too far?The Ivy League are the most sought after colleges out there and are often referred by students as The Ivies however there is also The Ivies at Claflin Academy, five girls dead set on getting into the best schools. The group consists of Avery, their leader, Sierra, Margot, Emma and finally,Olivia, our main character. These girls have spent their years at the academy sabotaging other students to keep themselves at the head of the class and have now applied.Avery had dictated to the girls that they each should pick a different Ivy college so they all should be accepted since only a few are chosen from the academy each year to a single college. Avery had claimed Harvard as her own however so Olivia and Emma applied in secret. Avery is turned down and Olivia and Emma accepted, Olivia stays quiet about her own acceptance but Emma admits hers and there is a huge fight between Avery and Emma. The next day Emma is found murdered, would Avery have gone that far or is another killer on the loose??For some reason even in adulthood I am still always drawn to boarding school or summer camp thrillers. Perhaps it’s because those are things the rich enjoy that I never myself did so setting a killer among those is a twisted appeal to me. But even with that draw they don’t always work out as enjoyable but thankfully The Ivies did. This one had just the right amount of intrigue, backstabbing bitches, and a twist I didn’t see coming. There were times my jaw would drop at how vicious and conniving these girls were. With my suspect all picked out I prepared myself for disappointment when the author headed that way but boy was I glad she tied it all into a pretzel and surprised even me, what fun!I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
3481932910	The review --> One Word: Boring.-----------------------------------------------We have a cover!My dumb ass always imagined it to be total black with white school logo at the middle so I'm confused now, but I'll get used to it lol.
4021205671	at this point of time i feel like giving up on mystery novels but I can’t 😭
3488745381	I am between 3.5 to 4 stars, so per my review policy, I will bump up to 4 stars. I will also disclose that I consider the author to be an online friend, so take that as you will. That being said... this was super fun! It took me a little bit to get into the flow, but once I did, I really enjoyed the "chatty" quality of the writing and I ended up getting swept up in the drama & intrigue of an elite boarding school filled with entitled students who will do WHATEVER it takes to get into their dream school. I think part of the fun of this plot is that it is extreme but... not that extreme. All in all, I think this is a really enjoyable version of a YA thriller with a solid ending and a nice tone of age-appropriate cynicism/snark
4073521913	3.5 StarsCW: (view spoiler)[inappropriate teacher and student relationship, murder, mention of disordered eating, underage drinking (hide spoiler)]Well I love me a bit of dark academia!Nothing like some entitled teens dripping with wealth and sinister motives to make you appreciate your own simple life. Whilst there are some plot aspects of this novel that could have been improved, and the characters were archetypal private school elites with a charity case bestie, I still found this trope-filled book to be a bit of a page turner. A good addition to the library.
3544030059	Full Disclosure: I received an ARC via the publisher. Also, Alexa and I are friends. I don't read thrillers! But the moment I heard of THE IVIES, I knew I was going to want to read this. With the boarding school and competitive college admissions edge, it had all the buzzy words that intrigued me. My favorite part about this book is that it really sent me back to the boarding school books I used to read growing up that really fed my love for reading. Most specifically it reminded me of the PRIVATE series by Kate Brian. There's something about an outsider's narrative into the world of the elite that makes me wish I went to a boarding school when I was younger. I really enjoyed the characters. Olivia was a great main character who pushed the plot along with all her investigating. I felt for her a lot when she had the feeling that her friend group continually excluded her. But also Avery was the queen of my heart, so. In terms of the mystery--I was guessing every fifty pages with a new suspect I was SO SURE was the one that killed Emma. Honestly I was guessing up until the end. I guessed some things, sure, but I was largely in the dark for most of the book and that was what kept me turning pages.Also, low-key loved the ending.
3479461134	I was lucky enough to get an early copy of this book. I devoured it. SO GOOD.Boarding school setting? Yes please. Ruthless ambition? Yes please. Mean girls who are actually way more than that? YES PLEASE.There were twists and turns galore that kept me guessing. I did NOT figure out whodunnit, even when I thought I had. And that final twist is just < mind blown emoji >Pick this up!
3060763516	This book is going to be crack to juniors and seniors--the number of times I came across a moment and said, "I mean they didn't kill anyone but yeah, I basically watched that happened" makes this book almost too real. Murder aside, this is the most realistic take on college admissions I've ever read in a fiction novel--we all know quotas are a thing. Colleges won't accept more than X students from a specific school. THE IVIES takes that premise and makes a page-turning murder mystery out of it. I'm so glad this book is due in the summer; it'll make a perfect beach read.
4159879492	*4.5*The Ivies es el resultado de mezclar Pretty Little Liars con Mean Girls. Literalmente la receta perfecta para una historia.Si hay algo que me gusta leer son los problemas de la gente rica y este libro hace justamente eso, ademas de mostrarnos que esta gente, a pesar de tenerlo todo, están dispuesto incluso hasta matar para tener más, y ame cada segundo de ello.Este libro tacha muchas de las cosas que me gustan:* Esta situado en un internado. Puntos extra porque es uno de ricos.* Hay un grupo de chicas y una termina muerta y tenemos a la prota tratando de descubrir que paso.* Los personajes son “unlikeable” pero tienen una convicción y cierta profundidad que te cautivan.* LA DRAMA IS STRONG IN THIS ONE.Desde los primeros capítulos super que este libro me iba a encantar. Las Ivies: Olivia, Sierra, Margot, Emma y Avery son un grupo de mean girls, reinas de la escuela que no tienen miedo de eliminar a alguien si este se encuentra en su camino, y leer su amistad, relación y dinámica de poder fue todo un deleite. Olivia como prota me gustó porque hasta cierto punto no puedes confiar totalmente en ella y eso te mantiene pegado a las páginas. Avery es la queen bee de mis sueños. Me encanto como es, lo maldita que puede llegar a ser, y que también tiene mucho detrás.No es mentira, me era imposible soltar el libro. Alexa Donne sabía muy bien lo que estaba haciendo cuando terminaba los capítulos en suspenso, revelandote algo pero no todo. Me lo leí en nada y debo admitir que no adiviné el final. Tenia ciertas teorías y no resultaron ciertas, porque todo el libro estuve dudando de todos.El final tomó una dirección que no esperaba pero wow como me gustó. Siento que el enfoque que le dio la autora a la resolución abre una crítica a justo como la gente privilegiada se sale con la suya en algunas ocasiones y en como el poder que tienen es usado para cosas no tan… morales, ademas de dar espacio para temas como el racismo.Me encanto este libro de principio a fin, y si Alexa Donne continua escribiendo thrillers de este tipo ya tiene un lector confirmado para sus próximos trabajos.
4048115899	** spoiler alert ** RATING: 1.5 STARS, rounded up because I like certain bits of it HAHAHAHAHAHAI can’t believe I read all that voluntarily.Also I’m willing to bet this book was written in 2020 in the hopes that COVID would be gone by 2021 but you’re WRONG because we’re still slowly rotting at home.I admit. The whole idea of high school students killing each other just to get to Ivy League is… jarring, at the very least. It sounds like one bad dark-comedy or a mock-up, or even a satire. I too, was once a high school senior competing for a spot in top Universities. It wasn’t as big as the Ivy League, of course, but the whole University entrance thing was brutal. I remember there was a period in senior year where everything seemed like a cutthroat competition. Yes, it was barbaric. And I was there, so I think I can get a say in what happened in here. It wasn’t enough to make us kill each other, though. Mostly we just did our best, laugh it off and beg God for a miracle.AnywaysYeah, the Ivies. Five students who would do anything for a spot in the Ivy League colleges. They sabotaged their competitors, infiltrate club presidents’ votings, get other students expelled. They went so far as to assign each others’ colleges to attend to (what?). It’s so ridiculous to the point that it started to get comical. And then, one of the Ivies got murdered.First of all, what the hell, I was so weirded out by whatever happened in this book that I considered putting it down. No, it wasn’t because of the murders, but rather because what these people would do just to go to Ivy League; each one so exaggerated that there’s no way these things would happen in real life (I hope not, my GOD, don’t kill other people to get to Harvard).The suspense is good. It kept me guessing at every other page, made me point out pretty much everyone. I think that’s one of the best things I could find about this book, because it kept me on my feet. And when the murderer was finally revealed, I was impressed by how much this book made me guess. But unfortunately, this is where the good bits end.Our characters are not likable and I am aware they’re supposed to be unlikable. But there’s not a pinch about that unlikableness that makes them interesting. There’s not any kind of special qualities or some backstory that makes the Ivies, or every other character in this book, interesting to read about. The only thing that kept me going was the plot. I couldn’t give a single fuck about these characters. The only character I find a little appealing was Margot and even then, she’s the Ivy that we see the least, to my disappointment. Now, I’m going to spoiler-y from here on. I think it’s very essential to mention some key points of this book to explain why I rated it so lowly. So if you don’t want to see that, stop reading. SPOILERS WARNING FROM HERE ON Okay, so apparently Tyler is the killer. I admit I was surprised, and I think it was a good twist as any. My main problem with this is the fact that Tyler’s motive for murder is as ridiculous as the systems these Ivies set up for themselves.Are you fucking kidding me???Killing someone for college essays???Look, I’m all down for unhinged killers. But PLEASE, this entire concept of students killing each other just to get to Harvard is already eye-rolling as it is. He doesn’t have a good motive. His motive is ridiculous and stupid. Even though the reveal got me surprised, I was even more surprised with the fact that of all possible reasons for doing a murder, the author chose this one. He’s unhinged, end of story. There’s nothing in that motive that would make it interesting or to make us feel for him. NOTHING.Secondly, I can’t believe I’m going to get political on this so I’m trying to not get into this as much because I don’t think I have the words good enough to describe the situation. I know the author means well: she’s trying to tell us that there’s racism in the college admissions system. Tyler killed Emma because he needed an essay for college applications, because apparently, according to him, being a white guy applying to top colleges is hard because they would prefer to pick people of color over him.Look, you can insert racism or whatever into your book, I don’t care. I also know that racism also exists in the college admissions system, no denying that. I don’t exactly have a problem with that but what irked me the most is the fact that this is used as a plot twist; a motive for murder. It’s just a view that’s plain wrong and he used that as a reason for doing a murder. It also makes the murder look cheap because apparently, the killer is a bland white racist guy, who killed his girlfriend for COLLEGE ESSAYS. I’m not sure if I should be irked about this but I am, because I think the racism subplot should be inserted somewhere else instead of the big reveal, simply, because it makes the twist look cheap and fake.
3068400630	Murder mystery meets college admissions at an elite private boarding school? Yes please! In full disclosure I do consider Alexa to be an online friend so take that as you will, but I've enjoyed her books since before actually meeting her and in my opinion, this is her best one yet. The Ivies is a twisty mystery filled with soapy drama and bad behavior, coming from someone who clearly understands the world of hyper-competitive elite college admissions today. Here we follow an outsider among the wealthy: a scholarship student who has been admitted to a small group of girls committed to gaining admission to ivy league schools, no matter what it takes....This is one where I don't want to spoil anything, but I thoroughly enjoyed my reading experience. I saw some things coming, but there were plenty of gasp-worthy moments as well and Alexa doesn't skimp on juicy twists and shocking revelations. And while a lot of this is soapy fun, it also has some important things to say about problems with the system, about privilege, and about how it's racist to assume someone got into an elite school just because they aren't white. (nobody is crying for privileged white boys who think they have it hard because of movement in the direction of equality) I also appreciated that this book didn't have an abrupt ending as some mystery/thrillers tend to do. We get get a lengthier denoument which I'm a fan of, though I imagine some readers might think it draws things out too much. It's going to be a personal preference thing. In general I think there's a lot to like here and I think it's going to be a real crowdpleaser. Check content warnings below if you need them, but note that they may be slightly spoilery! I received an advance copy of this book for review via NetGalley. All opinions are my own. Content warnings include: (view spoiler)[ teen drinking, murder (off page), finding a dead body (not graphic), bullying, mentions of drugging people, cheating, talk of blackmail by threatening to out someone as queer, other forms of blackmail, gun violence, attempted murder, toxic relationships, student/adult in position of power affair (not-explicit). (hide spoiler)]
6804020985	This was a fun read with great characters and a intriguing plot. A plot pulled directly from the news, but with a thrilling twist!A group of mostly rich teenage girls will do anything they can to get into an Ivy League school. As they blackmail, claw and lie their way to the top of their private school standing, they think they’re going to get away with it. But when tragedy strikes and one of them is murdered all hell breaks loose !
5574490737	i loved this, it was very enthralling and had me guessing until the reveal. the characters were all compelling and i loved how modern and up to date it was. great book.
3985432408	I really enjoyed The Ivies, it was full of twists and turns and some really unlikable characters that by the end I ended up actually liking. The main characters were like a mix of Mean Girls and Pretty Little Liars, they would and will do anything to get accepted into an Ivy college. Even horrible things and ruining other people's chances at getting in, they are ruthless and will get into their top choice.One of the main Ivies ends up dead, it seems as though someone murdered her just hours after she got accepted into her dream college. Was it one of her friends getting revenge for taking their spot, or was it someone random? All we know is that it was definitely someone at the school.I really enjoyed the twists and turns and learning about what horrible stuff the Ivies had done to their fellow classmates. The only two issues I had with the book were very minor, but I felt as though this was a super long book that could have been shorter. The middle did drag a little bit, and if it was shorter the entire thing could have been a fast paced thriller. The other part which is totally just a me thing was the romance, I really did want certain people to end up together, but it was such a back burner romance that just fizzled out. We don't get closure and it just is what it is.I honestly didn't expect the killer until the very end and had my theories as to who did it. I was pleasesntly surprised at how much I enjoyed reading this dark academia thriller!
4263252562	what i expected: a dark academia book about five girls who would literally commit murder to get into an ivy league schoolwhat i got: a book full of plot-holes, a poorly-executed murder, and covid references (*gags*)^also one of the girls slept with her stepbrother (and just when you thought it couldn’t get worse: her stepbrother went on to date her best friend 🙄 i got a migraine after that and couldn’t keep up with all the messiness
3548045751	The razor-sharp, whip-smart boarding school thriller of my dark and twisted soul! I loved it not just for the propulsive plot, but the examination of female friendships and societal pressures on teen girls. A must-read!
4021279866	Thrillers are the edgier equivalent of a category romance. That’s my hot take of the day. Some people roll their eyes at romance novels. Other people enjoy them just fine. But there is this pretentious, stigmatic hierarchy of literature and romance novels aren’t anywhere near the top. One reason is, of course, misogyny. Another is that they’re excessively tropey.Nobody really has a problem with tropes. It’s the formulaic nature that’s the issue, especially when books and movies only follow the formula to the letter and don’t elevate it. It’s why there are the problems of instalove, abusive alpha males, “enemies to lovers” that’s just basically “enemies to enemies in a relationship that won’t last long after the end credits”. It’s why YouTubers have made bank on mocking Hallmark Christmas movies.The formula is the writer’s friend, not their life support.You see where I’m going with this in a book review.The Ivies is about elite prep schoolers competing to get into Ivy League colleges. In fact, the main character (Olivia) is in a mean girl clique who exist only to sabotage other students’ chances so that they can get into their own designated colleges themselves. Dictator Friend Avery even claims the Harvard seat for herself, bumping down Olivia to UPenn even though Harvard is Olivia’s dream school as well.Because she wants to be a journalist. Correct me if I’m wrong but people don’t want to go to Harvard for the journalism programme.Problem #1 with the formula: Everyone Wants to Go To The Ivies. You know, regardless of whether the college is a good fit for them.(A book that does this very, very well is Charming As A Verb. It also tackles the issue of white privilege and expectation of black excellence better.)My problem isn’t even that scholarship kid Olivia wants a big name college on her résumé. It’s that the book does nothing with it. No, we are given three hundred pages of a clique member washing up dead because she secretly applied and got into Harvard, and Dictator Avery found out. Everyone thinks the murder happened because of the clique’s possessiveness about what’s “theirs”, but actually the girls had much deeper, darker secrets at play.Problem #2 with the formula: it’s almost immediately hinted that the dead girl had a secret, scandalous boyfriend. If you read enough thrillers (or even more than three), you know who it is. It’s always this guy. And the book leans into it, providing plenty of unobtrusive but clear clues for the reader, while the characters remain oblivious. It’s not a book problem, per se. Suspension of disbelief means that the characters are allowed to not be genre-savvy. But as a reader, when this “identity of the secret boyfriend” trope is the modern equivalent of “the butler did it”? The reader gets bored. I got bored watching it get played straight. I’m not even asking for late stage M. N. Shyamalan twists for the sake of them. I mean asking for literally anything other than playing this trope to the formula letter.Moving on. There are twists. There are reveals. The case is apparently solved at the 75% mark and everyone thinks they can rest easy, but no! There’s more intrigue to come.Upto this point, despite all my complaints, I enjoyed this book. It wasn’t going to rock my world but it was a page turner, it was well-written, and it was delivering on the promise of the genre. It was fine. A solid middle-of-the-road three star read, which is a lot better than many, many book can accomplish. And then The Ivies went off the rails. I don’t know how to describe the whiplash. It’s like if you’re watching The Usual Suspects and the third act seamlessly blends into the one from Scream. It’s not a genre shift that happens but a really fucking bizarre tonal shift:• Olivia confronts the real murderer. • The real murderer is wound tight and raving about the petty grievances that pushed them to commit the murder in the first place. • An ally comes to Olivia’s rescue, but no wait, they’re in cahoots with the murderer! • Murderer and Ally are comic-bickering about how to dispose of Olivia. • Ally turns on Murderer with a frying pan because they were secretly pretending to be against Olivia to disarm the Murderer. Problem #3 with the formula: “Inject levity to pace out moments of high tension” doesn’t mean throw in slapstick during the climax.The problem isn’t even with the frying pan. The frying pan is an excellent contrast to the high-stakes fraught environment. It’s the bizarre wannabe Joker (or other murder clown of choice) behaviour of Murderer and Ally that stops the book dead. And finally, the book ends with the real murderer’s trial, Olivia and her clique’s ill-gotten Ivy League acceptances revoked, and Olivia having lost all her privilege and starting from the bottom in public school.A little bleak considering how long we’ve spent being told that Olivia was an unwitting pawn of the clique in their more egregious schemes, and only performed a few smalltime acts of sabotage herself. A good girl led astray by her desperation for the big time. But essentially a good girl. So good in fact that she’s horrified when she learns the true extent of what the clique did to their classmates, and other people (when they get to know her) don’t really blame her as much as they do her friends.Problem #4 with the formula: Final Page Twist. Surprise! Olivia is just as venal and ambitious and ruthless as the clique, and now she’ll step on anyone to get back what she lost.Cool ending, bro, but no build-up.And finally, FINALLY, the single biggest way the formula has let this book sink and drown:Problem #5 with the formula: Surprise The Reader. Hide The Murderer In Plain Sight But Don’t Let Anyone See Them Coming.Well. It worked. I was surprised, the murderer was in plain sight, and I didn’t see it coming. You know why? Because their behaviour was suspicious in hindsight (if you squint) but it had no connection with their motivation. There was more foreshadowing for the red herring fake murderer than there was for the real one. If their places were reversed, I would have said “this is a predictable book, but it had some entertaining red herrings”. The real murderer’s real motivation works better as idle speculation than the actual denouement. Another way the formula has let down the book: someone Olivia hated turns out to be her biggest ally, and someone she trusted turns out to betray her. Once again, there’s absolutely nothing wrong with this trope. Tropes are tools. This tool was not used well. The surprise ally, after exhibiting pages of really terrible behaviour, gets all that handwaved with “but I was doing what I thought was best for you!” And the surprise backstabber does really slimy, cold-blooded things with complete equanimity in the third act... and there is no foreshadowing for this either and directly contradicts every single thing they say and do in the first two acts.And now we come to the thing that pissed me off so much that I actually put off writing about it because I didn’t want to scream endlessly for an hour.White people need to stop going “white people, eh?” and patting themselves on the back for it. Especially because The Ivies is one cheap dig after another at white men without saying anything intelligent about patriarchy, class, or privilege. I say and write a lot of mean things on the Internet, much of which I would dial down and rephrase if I could. But I genuinely, truly mean this about this book.I reiterate that I think the book means well. It’s coming from a place of allyship and ignorance, not malice. But like, with friends like these...There are two WOC in the clique, and neither are main characters. Margo is a one-note background antagonist who’s an actress, super rich, and she collects gossip without giving out any herself. I like non-stock East Asian characters as much as any underrepresented Asian (a lot; I like them A LOT because representation is a problem of white people, not competition among the represented) but Margo is a cardboard cut-out. Sierra is Olivia’s multitalented evil computer genius black friend, and she flip-flops between loyalty to Dictator Avery and doing the right thing. I like this. I think this humanises her and makes her three-dimensional and interesting. All she does in the plot is recite stock talking points from social media about how black women are sidelined despite their accomplishments. I’m not kidding when I say recite. These lines of Sierra are just dropped into the text. The syntax is wordy and like something someone tweets, not how people converse. It’s meant to be a mic drop, not an actual way to start a discussion or make commentary. It’s cringe.(Once again, let me refer to the book that does it better.)There is also Rebecca Ito, who the clique sabotages so she gives up on her dream school and ducks and covers. So when the book is this bad at dealing with its only three characters of colour, anything it has to say about The Problem of White Men is performative.***original keysmash pretending to be a reviewI have so much to say about this book which was a perfectly serviceable (albeit predictable) and entertaining thriller until the 70% mark. And then it started snowballing towards its TRUE big reveal, and the whole thing fell apart. Not because of the cartoonish way the characters acted, not because of the suddenly forced humour, and not even because it came out of the left field with literally no foreshadowing.It’s because this book tried to be woke and it doesn’t understand how fake it sounds when it parrots standard talking points.(And to be clear, I don’t think it came from a place of racism or even ignorance. I just think the author’s intentions didn’t translate well into the writing.)Review to come because I’m actually upset by how this book turned out. I learnt a lot about writing thrillers from the author’s YouTube channel because she did all the hard work of research so that lazy people like me didn’t have to. I genuinely enjoyed the first 70%. But this “white people eh” thing in writing (in both books and CW shows) by white people is too much.
3844619537	rtc. so THAT was a wild ride
4291829676	so i guess public school isn’t that bad :)
3896652559	This book was completely addicting and wildly entertaining. A dark academia murder mystery set at a boarding school? Count me in.Even though there was a large cast of side characters, it didn’t feel overwhelming. The characters were complex, unreliable, and ruthlessly ambitious, if a bit exaggerated at times. Though perhaps a bit too pop culture-heavy, the dialogue and Olivia’s internal monologue was sharp and witty while still feeling realistic and relatable.The whole setup was completely wild with lots of great twists and turns that left me shocked (but were well set up, not out of nowhere). I was so invested that I was able to suspend my disbelief whenever it got to be a bit over the top, or when the main character did things that were completely dumb to do while a murder investigation is taking place—though I will admit I did find myself wishing she’d stop blabbing to everyone and their mother, but not the police.Despite the minor flaws mentioned above, this book was compulsively readable and incredibly hard to put down, perfect for when you’re looking for a dark academia book to devour. Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley for the eARC in exchange for an honest review.
3987085420	The Short Version: A highly addictive YA Thriller with a cast of characters you’ll love to hate. It will keep you guessing the whole way through and it sticks the ending as well as any thriller I’ve read in the past year.The long version: Having followed Alexa Donne’s videos on YouTube for a while now, and based on the quality of the writing advice offered there I was very eager to listen to this audiobook and was ecstatic when it did not disappoint. The book centers on Olivia who attends Claflin academy, an elite boarding school grooming children for acceptance to elite universities. On the night of Early Decision Day, a student is murdered and everyone, including Olivia is a suspect. In an effort to clear her name, Olivia investigates the murder herself and discovers all sorts of secrets her friends were keeping from her. Will she find the killer before the killer finds her?There was a lot I really enjoyed with this book and it was highly addictive to read.First and foremost the plot and pacing were very much on point. Every time I felt like things were starting to sag, the engine revved and I was right back to compulsively reading, awaiting the next twist. As the plot progressed, I felt like everything made sense, I was led from a to b, never dragged.I thought the cast of characters was very thoroughly constructed. They weren’t likable, but then again there aren’t a ton of super rich people I would relate to or like, so I felt they were very accurately portrayed for what they are. The twists were a little of a mixed bag. A couple were easy to figure, but I guessed the killer wrong multiple times and just when I was SURE I had it figured out, I was wrong and I was glad to see I was. I really enjoyed the ending because it seemed to fit with real life, and it balanced satisfying resolution with consequences. I saw in some reviews negative comments about the character development, and I’m willing to agree that the character development is definitely back heavy, instead of a balanced progression, but I thought the characters who didn’t change or evolve, it fits. Think about being stuck in a circle of positive reinforcement, you never have a reason to change because you’re convinced your actions are right or there would have been consequences. The narrator’s performance here was solid if not spectacular. She did a good job injecting emotion, though she could have pushed it further. The male character voices were distinct and differentiated. Oddly, the female character voices were the most troubled. There were a few exchanges between the teenage girls where the voices were too similar and got muddled, but it was occasional.Despite all the good, there were a few sticking points for meOne of the biggest drawbacks for was the main character. She was equal parts likable and loathable, which I’m sure was the intention when the central characters are a clique of mean girls. She was well constructed from a backstory, layering perspective but I felt a strong inconsistency from her prose and her actions. The character is from an elite boarding school, and her narrative/prose is a bit elevated from a lot of YA first person stories (words like niggled, and detritus are littered throughout). I’m fine with that, it fits with the education. What didn’t jive was her decision making considering she’s supposed to be a super intelligent boarding school kid with an uncle for a cop. She repeatedly makes TERRIBLE decisions while investigating, while simultaneously missing obvious paths of inquiry, etc... This was made worse with her having an uncle who was a cop because she constantly creates situations that make her look more and more like a suspect. It just felt a little arbitrary as to when she was intelligent and clever and when she was dumb as a stump.The investigation by the police also stretched the suspension of disbelief for me. There’s a key piece of evidence they don’t find, that isn’t particularly well hidden and should have been found by competent police. They manage to figure out the 6 digit passcode to the dead girls cell phone but can’t crack a four digit password for the computer. Lastly the reason they don’t suspect the killer is kind of glossed over and the reason given (granted it’s the killer telling us why) doesn’t add up. Overall really teeter tottered between a 4 and a 4.5 on this. Very enjoyable, and an addicting read/listen, but in the end opting for a 4 because of a few logical inconsistencies and a main character that wasn’t super likable (though I’m sure there was some intention in this) and came off as down right stupid for a super educated Ivy League bound teenager.Component RatingsConcept/Idea: 5 out of 5Protagonist: 3.5 out of 5Supporting characters: 4.5 out of 5Character Development: 3.5 out of 5Plot: 4 out of 5Pacing: 4 out of 5Dialogue: 5 out of 5Prose: 4.5 out of 5Narrator performance: 4 out of 5Ending: 5 out of 5
4004197857	"The Ivies though. It was a matter of time before one of them ended up dead." 📚 Series? No.📚 Genre? Young Adult Mystery/Thriller.📚 Read for? TBR and Beyond Tours.📚 Cliffhanger? No.⚠ Content Warnings: Murder. Blackmail. Bullying. Toxic relationships. Toxic friendships. Eating disorders.⚠ Book Tags : Dark Academia. Boarding School. Whodunnit. Admissions.Check out my thoughts in this Booktube Video: LINK HERE☁ FINAL THOUGHTS & RECOMMENDATIONS ☁ This book was one of my most anticipated thrillers in 2021. If we're being honest, it did not disappoint. It was a truly enjoyable whodunnit story and I'm excited for so much more from this author. Definitely recommended for people who love dark academia stories that touch on the college admissions drama in the US.☁ THE CRITERIA ☁ 🌼 Synopsis:⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐🌼 Main Character:⭐⭐⭐⭐☆🌼 Support Characters:⭐⭐⭐⭐☆🌼 Writing Style:⭐⭐⭐⭐☆🌼 Character Development:⭐⭐⭐☆☆🌼 Thrill: ⭐⭐⭐⭐☆🌼 Pacing: ⭐⭐⭐⭐☆🌼 Ending: ⭐⭐⭐☆☆🌼 Unputdownability: ⭐⭐⭐⭐☆🌼 Book Cover:⭐⭐⭐⭐☆ ☁FINAL VERDICT: 4.4/5 ☁ Much thanks to TBR and Beyond Tours, Alexa Donne, and Crown for this complimentary copy. This review is voluntary and the opinions are fully my own. Also, all quotes are taken from the ARC and may be different in the final published copy. 📚 Blog ♡ Booktube ♡ Bookstagram ♡ Facebook ♡ Twitter 📚
4165408168	Thank you so much to Random House and Alexa Donne for my copy of The Ivies! I am always interested in a good academic thriller, and the title caught my attention right from the beginning. The Ivies is about a group of five friends who are obsessed with getting into Ivy League schools. They will do whatever it takes to get people out of their way to have one of the coveted spots at their dream schools. But when one of the girls steals the dream school of another, things take a turn towards danger. Someone ends up dead, and there is a long list of suspects and reasons why she was targeted. But is getting into a dream school worth killing for? Or is there something more sinister going on underneath.Thoughts: Since I work in Admissions, I can’t say no to a good college admissions academic scandal thriller. The pacing in this book kept me interested, and any time it started to get slow, the story would pull you back in with a twist. I hated all of the characters in a way that made it fun to read about and interesting to see what they would do next. The twists were pretty predictable, but the ending was actually believable and felt satisfying.I liked that this story felt real because of the parallels to the recent college admission scandal in the news. I have seen a lot working in admissions, and felt like this was sadly more true to life than people think. That being said, Olivia, the main character, made terrible decisions and was frustrating most of the time. I loved all the drama, the setting, and the writing in this book. It was a quick, fun YA read that I recommend to people who enjoyed One of Us is Lying or Five Total Strangers. 4-stars!
3540206517	THE IVIES is a deliciously deceptive tale of five boarding school friends who make a pact not to compete against each other by applying to different Ivy League universities. Narrated by scholarship student Olivia, I was never quite sure how forthright her account.I appreciated the linear timeline, from the day early decision acceptances are decided to the murder and trial. Everyone is suspect. No one’s hands are without dirt. Everyone uses everyone else. Everyone stabs everyone else in the back.THE IVIES is a lot of fun but requires frequent suspension of disbelief. Teenagers smarter than detectives always risks looking ridiculous, but Alex Donne pulls it off with few eyerolls from me. If you like boarding school books and mysteries that will keep you guessing, add THE IVIES to your TBR list.
3758501054	I think I just found a new favorite book. This book was killer. It reminded me why I love the YA thriller/mystery genre so much, I'm about to go binge more thrillers. Blurb A group of five prep school girls will do anything to get into their school of their dreams. Each one of them is gunning for a specific Ivy League school; Harvard, Princeton, UPenn, Columbia, and Yale. After one of them turns up dead, Olivia is determined to get to the bottom of it, unearthing secrets that should've stayed buried. .First of all, just thinking about this book just makes me laugh. Not because it's humorous, it's actually quite tense. Im laughing because this is such a wild yet realistic concept. How far we have come as a society to make college applications something worth sabotage. I don't normally read thrillers, but this book reminded me why I love them when I do. I loved being suspicious of every single character, it made me happy for some reason. I didn't expect a single twist, they all caught me by surprise. Not because they felt random, but because they were built so artfully. I fully expect myself to reread this over and over again, and still enjoy the twists just as much. This was SO good!And, Donne has a way of making you trust a character, only to surprise you when they are not in fact, trustworthy.(view spoiler)[ The ending with Ethan made me so mad!!! I liked him!! I thought I could trust him!! I was even shipping him with Olivia! Only for him to betray her??? Like, what the heck?? It makes sense, but it made me so angry!! (hide spoiler)] I loved how Donne kept the actual murderer within the group of suspects, she didn't bring in an entirely new person to be the killer. I hate it when thrillers do that, it feels like it cheapens the book. I had never really suspected the murderer, they completely flew under my radar, so I loved the reveal! And, this book does a great job of exploring the privilege that comes with money without making it the main idea of the book. I really loved our main character, and her struggles were relatable. After being completely sucked into this book for hours, I don't know what to do with my life now that it's over. I can't believe it ended like it did, I could've easily read another hundred pages! This book definitely holds a spot on my favorites shelf!Thanks to Netgalley and Alexa Donne for providing a free copy in exchange for an honest review!
3928618879	girls who will Literally kill to get into college sounded fun to me right away & well,, that was indeed a ride. first and foremost i did Not guess the plot twist (but i am also terrible at guessing the plot twists so).i haven't read a ton of ya mysteries but i have read a few and i mean this was obviously very formulaic in regards to books about rich private school kids and the main character who makes it clear that she is on scholarship. very clear. like every chapter. multiple times. sorry i am tired of reading about Very privileged white characters attending Insanely good high schools who lean on being poor as a way to show that they are not privileged, it's just soo annoying but anyways i digress. the plot twist/reveal, specifically the motive was... unexpected. it was so odd honestly, like i got it but was just so caught off guard by the reasoning lol. overall though i gave this 3 stars so i obviously didn't hate it, it was pretty fun & entertaining. if you're into these types of ya mysteries i'm sure you'd have a good time. also my school is mentioned in it so i guess i got a cameo 🤩*thank you to netgalley & random house for an advanced copy of this book*
3856138027	I finally got to reading this, and it was pretty good! kept me hooked and had all the elements that i liked. not sure how to describe it, but it was a very american novel, especially since i also experienced the college application process. maybe i've read too many murder mysteries but for me, this book was very predictable and all of what i had expected did end up happening. mixed feelings about that, but it was a fun read and a good one to get out of a reading slump, especially if read in one sitting11/29/24----------------------------- "it's deadly" YES GIMME02/23/21
4001213037	i think its safe to say i enjoyed this reading and it was enough to keep me interested, but the book has it flaws, for example: characterization, cliffhanger and development. the ending was very frustrating, it was rushed and the things that weren’t wrapped up were quickly thrown together in the last few seconds so lots of things felt unanswered. and also in some moments it felt like the author tried to pass a message but it feel shallow.
3055760380	Couldn’t put this one down! I was gripped from the first page and all the way through to the clever end. THE IVIES encompasses everything a thriller should be—addictive, twisty, and perfectly tense. And that ending? SUPER satisfying! Honestly haven’t read a YA thriller this good since Laurie Elizabeth Flynn’s ALL EYES ON HER. Netflix would be crazy not to adapt this. Highly recommend!
3982917469	‘’Dream big, Olivia, my mom always said. Keep one foot on the ground, though: dreams are useless without a practical plan of action.‘’ Is boarding school murder mystery a genre? Well, it should be, because it’s great. This reminded me of People Like Us by Dana Mele and The Cheerleaders by Kara Thomas, which were both books I quite enjoyed. I just really like the whodunnit-style stories, and that combined with the deadly-Mean-Girls, Heathers, dark academia vibes from The Ivies , it couldn’t be anything other than great, could it?The mystery was well-built, full of twists and turns until the very end, and the final reveal did not disappoint. My only complaint is that I actually wish the book was longer, and we could’ve seen more of the Ivies acting the way we mostly only hear they did. Such a fun, thrilling, quick yet enticing read, I had a great time with it (even though I’m not American and never understood the concept of Ivy League, the author does a great job painting the picture!).
4371712394	3/5⭐AVERY I LOVE YOU. is she a manipulative bitch? yes. do I still love her even after everything she did? yes. Olive you’re an icon
4035966173	* uh* what the everloving fuck was this* beyond ridiculous and way waaaaay too stabby for a story involving teenagers applying to college* like bestie, please 🥴
3723741229	The Ivies was an enjoyable read which held my attention. Thanks Netgalley and the publisher for the ARC.
3055196385	⭐⭐⭐⭐.5 ! I HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS BOOK AND I WAS NOT LET DOWN. Anyone who is a fan of Alexa Donne's YouTube channel knows that her usual fare comes in the vein of soapy, romantic Jane Austen retellings in space. While that is not usually my jam, I bought them all anyway. I think her channel is wonderful and I've enjoyed watching her walk the walk when it comes to applying the concepts she speaks about in her writing, and its been a joy watching her style evolve. What was particularly exciting about 'THE IVIES' is that Alexa is a voracious thriller/suspense fan and this step outside the romance genre was a move that I couldn't wait to see done! THE IVIES is a YA thriller set in the competitive, cut-throat world of college admissions. Focusing on a group of girls (Avery, Margot, Emma, Sierra, and Olivia) who will do anything, and I mean anything, to gain and keep their coveted spots in the Ivy League schools they chose. They lie, they cheat, they sabotage, and most importantly, they don't get caught. But when the status quo is blown out of the water, fights are had, things are said—and someone ends up dead.Here, we get to follow Olivia, who has always drifted *just* outside the group known as 'The Ivies. She's not rich, she's not devastatingly pretty, or smart, or talented but she certainly makes up for it in ambition (a fact that I appreciated dearly about her). Olivia can't help but notice that her friends are keeping secrets, but are they deadly? She takes it upon herself to find out.I've said this about "The Folk of the Air" Series by Holly Black, and I stand by it here: I love a book where not a single person in it is "good". These characters were fleshed out and nuanced. You could not put a concrete label on ANY of them and will find no stereotypes here. That was the beauty. What you think you know, you don't, and in true thriller fashion, I found myself yelling at this book more than once. Alexa managed to pull a successful double-switch that had me cackling. I could see the threads she was weaving, could almost hear her voice describing the concept of how to put a thriller together— but she left just enough ambiguity to make me question myself and I adored every minute of it. (Listen I read a lot of thrillers, I love being duped, especially when it's really so simple.) The teeny, tiny things that made me pause: Cataldo was by far one of the least useful cops I've ever seen (even though I ended up liking her anyway) and while it pushed Olivia along to do her thing, it seemed a little unrealistic how much she relied on a teenager, but maybe that's just me. There was also a bit of a moment where the book seemed to be grasping at things, taking a little too long to orient itself into moving forward into the investigative phase. Thankfully, this was short-lived, and I can't really blame the book too much: Anyone would be spinning around in circles in that scenario. It just kind of left me wondering where we were going to go from there. This book was chock full of thriller tropes we see every day that some people will enjoy, and others will not. I, personally, had a great time.Overall? I loved it. I truly did. I wanted to love it, but I came in objectively, and I still was entirely happy with the result. Alexa Donne should ABSOLUTELY write more thrillers (if she wants to) because I'll be the first in line! Keep an eye out cuz THE IVIES hits the shelves 25 May 2021!
4175807701	We improve our odds by slightly decreasing the fortunes of others. The Ivies are a group of five girls all interested in going to any Ivy League school (each to a different one to they aren’t competing with each other). They sabotage other students in order to secure their spots at their desired school. The Queen Bee of the group, Avery Montfort, is aiming for Harvard. Our main character, Olivia Winters was supposed to be applying to UPenn but ended up secretly applying to Harvard. Olivia is accepted and Avery is rejected. Another member of the Ivies, Emma, also secretly applied to Harvard and got in and Avery finds out. The next morning Emma is found dead.I love boarding school murder mystery books and The Ivies lived up to all my expectations. I had a lot of theories and I actually did suspect the actual murderer for five seconds before moving on. I loved learning about all the Ivies, especially the secret life of Emma that Olivia had no idea about even though they were roommates. What I love the most is that it doesn’t end with a complete happily ever after, which makes everything so realistic (also the mentions of Covid-19 and quarantine). Also I really liked that even though there was a hint of romance, it wasn’t even one of the top 5 plot lines of the story.What I didn’t enjoy is the same old scholarship kid that doesn’t fit in trope. Olivia was a little annoying about this and I loved it when the other girls called her out on it.I had a great time reading this and I’d definitely recommend it to all my murder mystery obsessed friends.
4022998828	this book went off the rails in the best way - did not predict the murderer (but when they was finally revealed i think i lost my mind)- the ending??? y'all i cannot- avery is by far the most interesting character that bitch really threw me for a loop - some people will do anything and everything to get into prestigious universities, and this book reflected exactly that- also, the excuses that people (specifically rich white people) made when it came to college and the scapegoating that they did -- the author hit the nail on the head because the exact same thing happens in real life- this book gave me some solid college app advice so uh,,, yay- covid/quarantine was mentioned, which i didn't expect but the way that it tied into the story i thought was really good - the pop culture references were funny, I'm not gonna lie- i saw some parallels to a good girl's guide to murder which were coolthis book is messy but so, so good. go read it!!tw: murder, alcohol, bullying, blackmail, cheating, mentions of disordered eating
3447535230	This was just what I needed last night--really compelling, didn't want to put it down. If you like this kind of book, it'll be just what you expect, you know? So thanks library hold for coming in at the right time.Also--this is maybe the first book I've read that's set post-Covid in a really casual way. There were 4 or 5 references to things like "when we were in Covid quarantine." I think this might be a good way to handle it, buuut at the same time, it kinda threw me out of the book, especially since we aren't actually past the pandemic yet and the book made it seem like we are.
3887530118	This was a super enjoyable YA mystery! I can be pretty harsh on books in this genre if I feel like it’s way too unbelievable that a teen is the person who solves the mystery instead of seasoned professionals. In The Ivies it felt like the ways that Olivia was investigating weren’t so out of the realm of possibility for a determined high school journalist. The world of elite boarding schools and high pressure Ivy League admissions provided an interesting setting for this story. A ruthless group of friends who sabotage others so they can come out on top, secrets upon secrets, and a murder made this a fun and quick read. In addition to the engaging mystery plot there was some nice commentary about the college admissions process and how messed up it can be. While I didn’t guess the final outcome of the story, there were a few reveals along the way that were super predictable. But that didn’t really hinder my enjoyment much. Sometimes the way Olivia was written didn’t quite feel authentic to being a modern teenager. This is kinda called out in the text by having another character call her a grandma, but sometimes the weird word choices took me out of the story for a bit. I think people who enjoy books with similar vibes to Veronica Mars, Gossip Girl or the Private series by Kate Brian would like The Ivies. Thank you to the publisher for providing an advance copy via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
4152114630	first of all... woahas inw o a hthis book was a full-on horrifying, thrilling, blood-chilling ride, I loved it. It was full of plot twists that had me yelling "WHAT?". I'm still kind of confused about a couple of subjects in the ending but that's just me I think. Reading it I was like "Oh my god she did it... no wait it was HIM... nonononevermind it was the OTHER GUY" so yeah, Alexa Donne had me hooked. Everyone has heard of the Ivy League. If you wake me in the middle of the night I can report you the acceptance rates, SAT, ACT, and TOEFL requirements for at least a half of them. Everyone dreams of getting in, but it's a hard competition. And some people at the Claflin Academy aren't afraid to get their hands dirty to win. There is a group that calls themselves "The Ivies", five girls who sabotage other students to give themselves higher chances of getting in. But it all gets even uglier when one of them is found dead on a chilly morning...While reading the book, you suspect everyone, even the narrator. I must once again praise the plot twists in this one, I usually can easily guess what is going to happen (those 150 YA books I read kinda have a pattern, yk?) but with this book, I only saw coming one of the many turns the plot takes. If you're looking for a dark academia thriller that you can read in one sitting you're in the right place.
5838552871	✮ 4.5 stars➷ title: the ivies➷ genre:YA mystery thriller‪‪❤︎‬༻“Five girls with the same mission: to get into the Ivy League by any means necessary.”the ivies is the perfect mean girls' thriller book. it definitely reminded me of many other popular YA books such as the naturals and a good girls guide to murder. the ending left me completely shocked. and that's saying a lot since i usually always guess the killer in thriller books. it takes place in a british boarding school that only the rich and powerful attend, but olivia finds her way there through a scholarship. ❤︎‬༻plot: this group of five girls called "the ivies" have decided each of them will get into an ivy school. but each of them are assigned their own school, so they won't have to compete against each other. when avery, the "leader" finds out another girl applied to her school, she goes crazy. and the next day this girl is found dead. it turns into a series of mysteries when olivia tries to find her friend's murderer. overall, i loved this book! i definitely would recommend this book to anyone who likes thrillers, or meangirl-type stories.
7598458496	ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ four stars!୨୧・・୨୧・・୨୧・・୨୧now playing: all my friends are fake by Tate McRaewow. just wow...this reminded me a lot of AGGGTM in a boarding school setting, and the plot (to me) was so unique. Olivia is one of the five Ivies, a "friend" group whose goal is to sabotage other students in their year so that they can all be admitted to an Ivy League school. After ED (early decision) day, one of the Ivies is found dead in the waters of the rowing house. Everyone assumes it was because the victim got into the Ivy League school of the queen of the Ivies' dreams, but it is not in any way that simple. Olivia, obviously, decides to conduct her own investigation and uncovers a boatload (literally) of secrets.the book kept getting better and better as the chapters progressed, and even though there is a ton of language and several instances of drinking and possible incest, this is a definite recommend for anyone who needs a thriller that will literally keep you on the edge of your seat.
3823044066	Do you remember the movie Mean Girls? This is a mean girls story with an academic mission. The story was smart, addictive, and definitely shocking! The characters get under your skin, they are ruthless and twisted. The girls are twisted and will do anything and I mean anything to get into thier dream college, even murder. This is a great whodunit type of book, the twist and the shocks keep coming. Olivia is at a boarding school where she and her friends are all trying to get into one of their Ivy League colleges but when things turn deadly for the group of friends Olivia is trying to figure out who killed one of their own as well as what other secrets they are hiding from one another. If you love YA thrillers or even thrillers in general this one's for you I would definitely recommend it!
4309137342	hasta donde me acuerdo me gusto, fue SUPER obvio, pero me gusto muchisimo el final, porque no fue justamente feliz y se me hizo muy real, todos sabemos que en los libros de suspenso todos se salen con la suya, pero aca...
6293874758	Ughhh this was so good🤩 I really needed a good murder mystery and this was so good! Twisty, exciting, and totally unpredictable! I loved the boarding school, rich kids setting. The collage admissions plot gave it a super unique angle! I will def be reading more of Alexa Donnie’s stuff🤭Pages: 309 Language 🫢: 🫢🫢🫢🫢TW⚠️: death, drinking, strained family relationships, lgtbq, content Genre: YA thriller Format I read: Paperback Would I recommend to others: Yes!
5615150453	this was such a ride. that final plot twist?? oh my goodness. i feel like i predicted everything, but it still hit me like that bus hitting regina george when it was revealed. everyone was SUCH a bitch and i was living for it. i relate to avery so, so much (which might make me a horrible person but whatever!) think cruel intentions meets heathers meets a good girl's guide to murder meets one of us is lying. i could imagine myself living in this and doing almost everything the characters would do, which is very terrifying and i genuinely don't know what that says about me as a person but yeah!
3829126448	Thank you to Crown Publishing for an advanced copy of The Ivies for an honest review. This has in no way affected my response. Actual rating: 3.75The Ivies synopsis did not do this mostly unpredictable contemporary novel justice. It was pitched as girls who would do anything to get into an Ivy school. What it really is is Get Even + high school drama on an extreme level. Add some more murder and you have The Ivies.There is a being difference between the Ivy League schools and the Ivies. The Ivy League are some of the best schools ranked. The Ivies are a group of girls who will do anything to get into an Ivy. Each girl in the group is assigned a school by their rich leader, Avery Montgomery, who chooses Harvard for herself.But Avery has competition. Harvard only takes two or three spots from Claflin Academy, and one had better be Avery's. But when she doesn't get in, and someone who does is murdered, investigations start. One: The official investigation to figure out who killed the would-have-been-Harvard-Student and two: An Ivies run mission to find out who exactly took Avery's spot. Olivia, an outsider Ivie, thrown into both investigations, starts a third to clear her name and keep away from Avery's rage if she ever finds out Olivia secretly applied to Harvard instead of Penn and was accepted.Olvia was a fine main character, she was nice, but she was a pretty stereotypical character: the poor girl who gets a scholarship to the school she currently goes to. I enjoyed her perspective which added to my final thoughts. Olivia's character ARC was amazing!Avery is a bitter-sweet badass but is also a walking stereotype. She's the mean girl of the story, who also happens to be rich and perfect. But she had a good motive and a great story-line, she's not the best role model and does some horrible things- which maybe she didn't do after all, but I still can't help but love the defiant queen she is. I loved what happened with Avery in the end, even if she took the hard way to get there.I liked Sierra, she was a cool hacker and brought some diversity to the novel. She also wasn't afraid to call out others for saying the only reason she could ever get into an Ivy School is because she's black.Margot the Ice Queen wasn't the greatest, but I liked her calm reserve. The Worst Ivie trophy is reserved for Emma, but Margot was still a jerk. She definitely brought some spice to the story.Emma, the worst-doing Ivie. She is so evil, and is the victim? She's a villain, as Olivia discovered. Maybe she was murdered, but she maybe wasn't the perfect girlfriend or student she appeared to be either. It's time for the Ivies to come clean.The plot was a masterful twisty road. I did predict half of it but was a little surprised at the next reveal. Just as you start to trust someone, Donne reveals a new witness, and everything changes. I LOVED that. Just the concept of this book makes it amazing.The writing wasn't anything special, but it was well done. The sentences flowed nicely and were of varying lengths, very standard but still enjoyable. It fit the story and Olivia's perspective.This was the most contemporary story I've ever read- mention of COVID-19, the SAT scandal, and plenty of other giveaways, and it was wonderful. There was also a New Year celebration which gave me so. Much. Hope.The Ivies is chock-full of lessons on friendships, toxic relationships, and many other important topics, which I appreciate!This is a very strong novel, I recommend this to anyone wanting a book that will spark discussion, wants a contemporary mystery, and fans of the show Get Even (there are many similarities). The Ivies will get your mind working until you turn the last page!
4049174940	** spoiler alert ** I've been staring at my computer for a solid five minutes trying to think of how to start this review and describe why this book failed in every way for me, and I think what I've realized is that I just need to word vomit what bugged me.Before I start, I think this book is definitely trying to hit the same demographic as One of Us Is Lying, and I couldn't stand that book either. In retrospect, that should have been obvious, but I really do want to like murder mystery books set at schools, so I will probably keep trying, though maybe not from this author.I've seen a couple of Alexa Donne's videos on writing, usually when I'm getting excited for nano projects, and so I might have expected more from this because of that. In my head I might have equated her with more expertise because of her videos.Spoilers below.The plot is... bad CW show meets 'middle schooler trying to write a Law and Order episode,' and I think the "twists" were supposed to be shockers but all of them were incredibly predictable. The only thing I didn't guess was Olivia's involvement in the SAT scam - I think I just missed what her work study was for the most part, so that part was like "oh okay." Olivia's plot was just "smart girl has no brain cells and actually didn't know anything about anyone around her" and there's only so much of that I can handle before it becomes insufferable. The fact that her roommate had two completely different colored phones that she used at different times never stood out to her? To the point where when someone brings it up as an option she immediately says 'oh no never,' like it's so far from logical when she used it in front of her constantly? I don't know, it felt like the author was trying at times to make Olivia seem like an unreliable narrator without giving essential scenes that would have done that (there's a scene that places Olivia as a suspect, but the reader comes along for that scene, completely ruining any doubt we could have had in her).The characters and their dialogue felt really off to me - I'm pickier than most about dialogue but this book just lacked subtlety at all times, so all of the dialogue was blunt and clunky for me. The rest of the Ivies felt like intentional "we're not just stereotypes" but they didn't have many layers to them other than Olivia not knowing their actual deeds. I also didn't like that one of the characters is labeled "the worst" and a huge catty bitch who blackmailed a girl with her sexuality, and then at the end it's like 'oh no one had that right I'm actually gay and we were dating.' I guess I've just been burned by the bitch character always being a closet lesbian too many times to find it fun.The motive for the actual murder is bad and gross and felt like such a phone-in thing. I laughed out loud when that was 'revealed,' cause it had been obvious who it was the whole time but the reasoning is just.. laughable. If other people found that satisfying, good for you, but it was just the dumbest resolution for me.Also having your protagonist lose out on Harvard for something she didn't do and then having another rich girl get her into Smith felt weird. It felt like the rich friends not standing up for her was supposed to say something about classism and elite v. blue collar, but then her rich friend just fixes things anyway? Meh.
7265881523	CURVEBALLS. This book is full of curveballs. I swear that you will be all over the place with the whodunnit behind this book. Your head will be spinning and your jaw will be on the floor. From start to finish it’s full of twists and turns, that will leave you guessing up until the very end. I was actually shook at how many curveballs there were with the characters. It’s wild!Ahhh the Ivies, prestige schools that anyone would die to get into, right? At an elite boarding school, that happens to be the case apparently. Getting a spot at an ivy school is cutthroat competition, one that five friends have figured out to ensure themselves a special spot at their dream school. They would do anything to get in, but would they kill for it? When one of their own ends up dead, tables turn as they go from the queen bees of school, to murder suspects and the stars of an investigation. You follow with Olivia, the outlier of the Ivies. Whereas her four friends are rich and elite, she’s a poor scholarship kid who just happened to be accepted by the it group of the school. You follow along as Olivia starts an investigation of her own to see if one of her friends would actually kill for a spot at an ivy. As she uncovers secrets that were dying to stay buried, deals with blackmail, and has guilt about even the cruel things she’s done to assure her spot. From start to finish, it’s an exciting and wild ride that will throw curveball after curveball at you, until the very end. I will say, I think the ending was eh. I do think that it wasn’t fair or justice enough, even though I think it makes sense and it’s still a good ending (hey I’m not giving a spoiler away). I’m just saying, I think the character deserves more then what they get, but they are happy and at peace with what they get so, hey if they’re happy with it then I guess so am I. I would absolutely recommend this book. It is so amazing. Hands down loved it. This is the second book I’ve read from the author and yet again she has me amazed and floored with how crazy her books get. I would totally give it a try, this book is so worth it y’all!
3839589430	3.5 rounded up to 4This definitely had its moments! Alexa Donne's third published novel, the YA thriller, "The Ivies," published in 2021, is definitely her best work yet.I really enjoyed the prose in this book. I enjoyed the plot twists and turns, especially in the novel's long middle section. The final action scene did not thrill me, but I've never been a fan of villain monologues, either; tastes vary on that one.I loved how active this protagonist was. Although I didn't like Olivia Winters as a person at all, and never cared about her, I enjoyed her agency a great deal. It was fun watching her Nancy Drew antics at a private boarding school full of Mean Girls."The Ivies" is a smarter, more plot-driven version of "Pretty Little Liars." There is a lot of BIPOC and LGBTQ+ diversity in the story. The story is stridently political in places, wearing its identity politics proudly. High school students can murder each other, but racism and homophobia are beyond the pale, completely unacceptable, and "The Ivies" stands in that truth in all ways.The truth about murder, though, is that all kinds of -ism's play into who is targeted as a victim: sexism, racism, classism, etc. etc. "The Ivies" certainly didn't delve into the sexism that drove this whole plot. For all of the social commentary layered into this book, the novel was silent about the larger ramifications of the ending.But that's not really a criticism. I don't expect thrillers to give social commentary on their own endings. "The Ivies" just set itself up to read that way, adding social commentary on so many other topics throughout the story that the lack of any attention on sexism was glaring.The pacing in the final section felt off to me. Things slowed down a lot, and then seemed to continue too long.Overall, if you like cozy mysteries and Mean Girl stories, I would recommend "The Ivies." The book reads like a blend of "One of Us Is Lying" and "Pretty Little Liars." If that sounds like a good time, definitely pick this one up.
3700797499	full review here! https://teatimelit.com/2021/05/25/blo...There are a few things that I think a book absolutely needs to be categorized as a good dark academia mystery/thriller: an unreliable narrator, a gripping mystery with lots of twists and turns, ruthlessly ambitious and morally gray characters, and insane amounts of drama. The Ivies has all of that and then some. I was hooked from the first page. In fact, once I started I don’t think I stopped until I was around 60% through, and the only reason I stopped was because I needed to sleep (ugh that pesky thing that gets in the way of reading time). The story was dramatic and over the top and I was addicted. I loved how descriptive the writing was; it was so easy to picture everything that was happening. I felt that the plot twists and reveals were done extremely well. They made sense with the direction the story was headed and there was the right amount of shock factor without it seeming completely out of left field. The plot twists had the desired effect and kept me interested and eager to continue reading. The vibes felt reminiscent of both Gossip Girl and Pretty Little Liars, two of my favorite teen dramas, and I wouldn’t be surprised if we eventually saw a screen adaptation as the writing also felt very cinematic.The overall mystery was incredibly thrilling. I liked that it wasn’t super obvious which character was going to die right from the get-go. There were two characters that I thought would be the victim at the start and I flip-flopped on which one of them I thought it would be. I wasn’t completely sure until just before we found out. Once it was revealed, the mystery just kept developing. I definitely found myself putting on my sleuth hat and trying to piece together all of the information. Honestly, I was almost considering starting an online murder board to keep track of all the possible suspects and their motives. There was so much information; the story just kept building and building and when it finally came to a head it all made sense.
4004685568	ASHHHHHHHHHHHHHH THIS BOOKS WAS AMAZINGThe perfect dark academia book I didn't know I needed. The characters are well-structured, dramatic, extreme and real. The plot had me on the edge of the seat. Set in a boarding school about ambitious girls determined to get into Ivy colleges and by determined I mean playing some dirty tricks.I loved that Olivia jumped head-first into solving the mystery despite of her insecurities, her complex situation and all the short-comings she faced. Emma, Avery, Sierra and Morgan were all as real as it could get. None of them was straight out mean or angelic, they had their good and bad moments, strengths and weaknesses. I think the author portrayed perfectly how every person can be selfish, calculative yet also be forgiving and kind whether they're outwardly nice or mean. And the ending was perfect! It was bitter-sweet and realistic.
3614068807	This was pretty good. I was really pleased with what happened with Avery's character. (view spoiler)[what straight girl buys a Lexa poster two to three years after the episode where she dies and then keeps it up for two more years and then dresses up as her at a party nearly 5 years after said episode where she dies? I can't believe the mc was shocked when she came out (hide spoiler)]I will say, the decision to acknowledge COVID-19, but have it be completely and totally over by Fall 2020, no masks, no social distancing, no PTSD, was really jarring. If it's going to be like that, just don't mention it at all. That's okay!!!
3368623549	Perfect YA thriller set at an elite boarding school. 'The Ivies' are an exclusive clique that are literally dead set on getting into an Ivy League school. I loved the fascinating glimpse into their privileged lives from the point of view of Olivia, the scholarship student from Maryland. There are tons of suspects all with valid motives and just when you think you've figured it out, there is another twist in the plot!
3828414176	Thank you to NetGalley and Random House for an eARC of this book! The Ivies by Alexa Donne is a murder mystery set at a private boarding school that centers around elite college admissions. I requested an ARC of this because for the past four years I've worked in college access with high-achieving students so my interest was piqued!!! I don't read a lot of mysteries and I've only read two other YA mysteries, so this was a new genre but honestly I truly enjoyed it. What I liked: The Ivies themselves! The Ivies are a group of girls who basically sabotage the rest of their school to secure spots in five Ivy League colleges. They're so conniving and entitled and at moments truly awful but I loved the characterization of each of them!! Even Avery which imo is the one with the most abhorrent attitude is fun to read about and had some depth to her. The concept of sabotaging your entire school to get into college is absolutely ridiculous, but to me that's what made it compelling to read about! Also, the book definitely dramatizes what it takes to get into college admissions (pls don't kill anyone to get into Harvard, folks!!!!), BUT it really has some shreds of truth to it. College admissions for top tier schools irl is cutthroat, often dehumanizing, and can make students feel pretty desperate, and I liked the commentary that the author sprinkled in here & there about private college admissions counselors, how money affects admissions, awful essay topics like poverty tourism and exploitation of trauma, etc.Around 1/3 of the way into the book I found myself getting pretty hooked as our mc and her sidekick/crush started uncovering clues quicker and quicker and getting to the meat of the story. I just love an amateur sleuth and her cute sidekick kind of story, what can I say!!!! What I didn't love: This is nitpicky and honestly I just wish I knew less about the intricacies of college admissions lol because then I wouldn't know or care about this but because I have that background I feel forced to mention: there's no way one would have a $20,000 gap in financial aid at Harvard but get a full ride to [insert liberal arts college that I don't want to say the name of here because it's a spoiler!]. That's not how it works!! Harvard has so much money and they meet 100% of financial need. If she's getting a full ride elsewhere based on need, she would get that at Harvard too. *mild spoiler* Also if you're so concerned about financial aid why apply to a bunch of out of state public institutions, where you'll receive no aid!!!! make it make sense!! *end mild spoiler lol* I guess I wish the author had thought to simply research that part.I also can't decide how I felt about the ending and who ended up going where. I won't go into it because again, spoilers, but! I did love that the Ivies didn't end up being the end-all-be-all, which is a common line of thought for soooo many students, because there are so many other awesome and affordable schools out there that aren't Ivies!!!I also can’t decide if I ended up liking the murder motive once it was revealed... was it too extra or was it just ridiculous enough??? Jury’s still out. Overall: fun to read, twists & turns, riveting characterization, interesting commentary on elite college admissions and the ridiculousness of it all! For fans of: pretty little liars, a good girl's guide to murder by holly jackson
5737614608	** spoiler alert ** I forgot the last time i read a book with so many despicable characters all together. how is this even possible?none of the character had any development throughout the entire book. instead they somehow got progressively worse. and NOT in a good way. I liked Avery the mean queen for a while but by the end, even she managed to become so annoying it was hard going on. Not to mention, Olivia is such an idiot i can't believe she played detective. bitch didn’t notice the murderer given to her in a silver platter.plus, along with the characters this book also had quite possibly the worst ending i read this year.1: they didn’t even show the end of the trial.2: none of the mean girls got what they deserved. 3: Ethan the fucker should have rotten in hell but he is attending harvard? it's like karma doesn’t exist at all. come on!4: the fact that someone who has a brain of a jellyfish (me) guessed every single one of the plot twists is definitely questionable. 5: and in this entire drama, the only one who suffered was the protagonist Olivia. Yes, she is an idiot. But still...?Her life was ruined all because of some wrong accusations. She could have told the court about ethan in the court but that dumbass didn’t. You know what? Maybe she deserved it after all.did i mention i hated the ending? this could have been the perfect mean girl themed murder mystery book but the last 20% was truly the worst. God how i need a time machine for times like these, so i could go back and stop myself from picking this up.
8117770137	The Ivies by Alexa Donne is a sharp, high-stakes YA thriller about a hyper-elite boarding-school clique who will stop at nothing to land spots in Ivy League collegesand the deadly secret that emerges when ambition turns lethal. At Claflin Academy, five girls call themselves “the Ivies,” sabotaging classmates, manipulating rankings, and undermining rivals. When one of them ends up dead, scholarship student and aspiring journalist Olivia Winters finds herself questioning everything: her friends, her moral compass, and whether success is really worth the cost of one’s humanity. From the beginning I felt the tension gripping tightly around my chest. The novel captures that merciless pressure surrounding college admissions with ruthless clarity: the class ranks, club politics, social power plays, and the implicit equation of personal worth with success. Olivia’s dual identity, a scholarship student yearning for acceptance, yet surrounded by wealth and privilege made me ache for her. I related to her insecurities and the longing to belong. The mystery element had me guessing until the end, and the final reveal felt both shocking and inevitable once the pieces fell into place. The pacing tends to be brisk, the drama sharp, and the stakes feel real enough to jolt the heart a little.At the same time I found some parts of the emotional core a bit hollow. Olivia as a narrator sometimes frustrated me: her moral wavering and choices occasionally felt inconsistent, which made it harder to root for her in a deep way. The social-commentary about classism, privilege, and ambition often feels more like window dressing than fully interrogated ideas. And some character relationships remained shallow or unconvincing, which undercut what could have been stronger emotional payoffs.Still, The Ivies held me in its grip from page one to its cynical, satisfying conclusion. I give it 4 out of 5 stars: it is a darkly addictive read, a thriller that pulses with ambition, jealousy, and the desperate longing to belong. If you enjoy twisted boarding-school drama, morally messy characters, and mysteries where trust is the first victim, this is a book that will haunt you long after you turn the last page.
4043667920	Actual Rating 3.5I am a sucker of YA mysteries set in high school/ university/boarding schools/dorms. I have to read all of them and that too in one or two sittings. When I came to know about The Ivies, I had to read it. I finished it in less than 24 hours so yes it was engaging. Though the concept was not new. This book reminded me of three other books, two I read this year and one last year.The setting was perfect for a YA Murder mystery.A private boarding school with elite students.A group of mean and ruthless girls known as Ivies. Ivies have eyes on Ivy League and have been doing anything to go there.One of the Ivy ended up and dead. And there are so many suspects out there.Avery is the leader of the gang, plans everything and decide which university is for whom.Margot is the actress of the group who can get any information from anyone.Sierra is the brain and leader of the coding group.Emma is smart and involved in so many activities and clubs.Olivia is the odd one out, she is a scholarship kid.Emma ended up dead and Olivia realized there is a huge stack of hidden secrets about Ivy she isn’t aware of. She wanted to know who killed her and started her own investigation.I love the story and the whole environment. Mean girls were really bitchy and cruel. I found the pace a tiny bit slow. Twists and turns were predictable. I totally loved the first half of the book in the second half some of the character development felt forced. The ending felt rushed and there were a few questions left unanswered or I wasn’t satisfied with the logic of a few. I loved the fact that no one was white or angel. I love the way a few issues were tackled realistically.Overall I really enjoyed it.
5071197782	The Ivies is a book that has been on my tbr for a very long time and it’s also a book that I went into completely unaware, which I’m finding is the best way to read a book.I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this. Usually, I find that Young Adult Thriller/Mysteries fall a bit flat as they have to attempt to not be too scary for their targeted audiences, however, this was so much fun.The mystery and the thrill of Olivia and Ethan investigating the murder of Olivia’s roommate and friend, Emma reminded me a lot of A Good Girl’s Guide To Murder (aka the best series ever). I love not being able to trust any of the characters and having a feeling of suspicion about all of them, it almost makes it feel as if I’m a part of the story.Olivia was such a fun main protagonist and someone that you couldn’t help but root for. I would’ve loved to have rated this book higher than I had but there were a few things that I didn’t like about this book. I disliked the motive behind Emma’s death and I wasn’t a huge fan of how the ending played out. Overall, this was fun and I can see myself revisiting this again in the future.
4129318525	Being a member of the clique of girls called the Ivies at Claflin Academy means being willing to do whatever is necessary to get into your Ivy League school and secure your high flying future. Sabotage, lying, cheating, that is where it begins. Does it end with murder? Peak behind the curtain of ultra competitive college admissions. It is not pretty or for the faint hearted. The characters get as much attention as the turns of the plot in this young adult thriller. This is an exploration of friendship dynamics between a group of smart and ambitious mean girls at the top of the social pyramid of a very elite boarding school. There is also a theme of class differences. One unlikely member of the Ivies alliance is a scholarship student who worries about if she will get a good enough financial aid package to be able to go to the school of her dreams. There is a snarky sarcasm that lightens the tone. This was quite an enjoyable read.
4045454866	Want to see more bookish things from me? Check out my Youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...*I received a copy of this book from the publisher in exchange for my honest review*At Claflin Academy, a group of 5 girls who call themselves The Ivies, have one mission: to make it to an Ivy League School. They will stop at nothing in order to get to the top, including...murder? This was enjoyable for what it was, but I wouldn't say its anything super memorable. It would definitely make a fun TV show though! I love the boarding school vibes of this, its one of my favourite settings to read! Some of the characters were a bit annoying, and I wasn't a fan of them. A lot of the characters were pretty one-dimensional though, and there wasn't really any development by the end of the story. The book goes by so quickly, and its such an easy read, I read it in one sitting! Overall, it was fun while it lasted!
7964570828	college admissions are never that serious guys i'm convinced these rich kids lack any substance in life, so they purposefully create petty and annoying problems in their lives. that being said, this was still a pretty entertaining and funny read, only bc it was predictable and virtually impossible for you to give a shit about anyone in this book
7476227413	What can I say, man, I love murders
3700808908	See this review and more at my blog, The Scribe Owl!Thank you to Turn the Page Tours for an ARC in exchange for a blog tour stop!4/5 starsThe Ivies is a YA thriller about how cutthroat college applications can really be.This was a lot better than I expected it to be! I've read one other book by Alexa Donne that I didn't like at all, but this one was much better. I was a little apprehensive because of my previous bad experience, but The Ivies was a massive improvement. Everyone knows the Ivies: the most coveted universities in the United States. Far more important are the Ivies. The Ivies at Claflin Academy, that is. Five girls with the same mission: to get into the Ivy League by any means necessary. I would know. I’m one of them. We disrupt class ranks, club leaderships, and academic competitions…among other things. We improve our own odds by decreasing the fortunes of others. Because hyper-elite competitive college admissions is serious business. And in some cases, it’s deadly.Really, the main thing that I got out of this reading experience is that I should read more thrillers. Though I still guessed the killer, I enjoyed the twisty plot and complex characters. The thing about thrillers is that there is never a perfect character to root for. Everyone's a little screwed up in one way or another, and that's fantastic to read about. The premise of this story is tons of fun. I love all the talk of admissions and getting into the right school, and this is probably a very timely book for some readers. All in all, this was an enjoyable book. It's not my new favorite, but I had a good time and I'd encourage you to read it!
4211170147	Predictable but fun.
3893291255	Another thriller under my belt, and this one from a youtuber I quite enjoy. I find Alexa's videos informative and helpful as someone who also wants to be traditionally published.I do think her craft has improved from her first two books, though she sometimes struggles with infodumps, especially at the beginning. I wish she had found a way to spread those out a bit more.If you're a thriller reader this isn't going to bring you anything terribly new or shocking, but for a teen just starting out with thrillers this might be just the thing. An enjoyable read that was extremely easy to pick up, but also nothing overly special. There will be a full review on my youtube channel.
3209592483	twisty and compelling enough to keep me interested, but the book doesn't do much in terms of establishing concrete characterization, and the plot hinges on a slew of tidy conveniences. it's also suuuuper on the nose with its messaging, verging on hamfisted preaching. this isn't to say i disagree with the messaging--only that it could have been handled with a lot more subtlety and tact. and as someone who's quite familiar with the premise of the novel, i picked up all the little references to subreddits and such, but i'm not sure a lot of people outside of a pretty specific demographic will get the same kick out of it as i did.
5230695639	College applications mean a lot to every teenager, but not as much as they do to the Ivies. One Ivy League school for each of the five girls, Olivia and her four friends. And, The Ivies will stop at nothing to make their dreams come true. That was the plan.Except, life doesn't always go to plan. Despite Penn being the school assigned to her by The Ivies, Olivia takes a chance and enrolls in Harvard, Avery, the terrifyingly powerful leader of the pack's, school. There shouldn't be a problem, until she gets in. Not only Olivia gets in, though. Begore she can break the news, her fellow Ivy, Emma, admits to the four that she applied and got in. The next morning, she is found dead. A killer is on the loose at their high-end New England boarding school, and Olivia isn't sure who she trusts. The more she digs, the more she realizes just how low her friends will stoop to get into their schools. Would they kill for a spot, though?It is up to Olivia to find out. She has to trust nobody, keep her own secrets hidden, and find the killer, before they find her.This book was really good, very intense with twists and turns coming up constantly!! I saw through most of the plot twists, but a few still left me in shock. Overall, it didn't feel all that special, though; I hadn't really thought about it again since I finished it a few days ago.
4070303769	All hail the Ivies! Mean girls meets dark academia meets revenge in this twisty YA thriller. All five of the girls in the Ivies group were the absolute fricken worst and I completely ate it up. This gave me everything I was wanting in a mind-candy, popcorn read type of thriller. Highly recommend picking this one up if you enjoyed Five Total Strangers or Ace of Spades!
4023955928	3.5/5
