3605209560	I wasn’t sure what to expect when I selected Campusland, but I ended up loving this brilliant work of satire focused on the over-the-top and often sanctimonious “woke” culture of the elite Ivy-league campuses. Come for the laugh-out-loud moments and stay for the accurate social commentary on these elite institutions, who may at times go a bit too far for the sake of proving how progressive and socially-conscious they are. I loved it!I’m shocked this book hasn’t received more attention and accolades. I found it brilliant! Having attended an elite private college in the Pacific Northwest with similar “woke” culture, I laughed so many times while reading this. Scott Johnston does a brilliant job of showing how what often starts as well-intentioned movements can be taken (particularly in these sorts of campuses) to the extreme, where the actual purpose of the cause is often lost by the theatrics surrounding the faux-activism.Centering around English professor Eph Russell who is hoping to achieve tenure in the current academic year, Campusland delves into the question of what happens when campus culture is taken too far, and rational thought is replaced by fear of backlash from cancel culture.Eph is from rural Alabama, not the norm for the elite professors at Devon University. But Eph also stands out as the most rational, fair, and open-minded character in the novel. He strives to be simply a good professor, and challenge his students to learn from the great writers throughout history. But he is no match for the university administration, who jump at the slightest hint of pushback from cancel culture sweeping the student population.There is a particularly humorous exchange in a chapter aptly names "I Feel like" between a student and Eph, when the student articulates how she feels upset that the curriculum in in Eph’s course on 19th Century Romanticism and Realism lacks enough minority representation. Eph points out that this is the consensus about the great works from that period in history, and the student responds “Whose consensus? Other people of privilege? I think we all know the answer to that, don’t we?”Meanwhile the book is peppered with other narrators from the campus, including the President of the University, a privileged white student who fakes a stint of activism to gain a social media following and leads people to falsely believe she was sexually assaulted (a belief she does nothing to correct), a black student activist named Red who spends his time searching for the next cause he can highlight, and the head of the university’s bias response team (a team of one) who pretends to represent a larger team while unilaterally making decisions.One of the key messages of the book is whether some institutions like the fictional Devon may have gone so far that we are now in a classic case of the lunatics running the asylum. Where the fear of not being progressive enough has now led the administration to act without thought or investigation, often undermining the integrity of the causes they are seeking to support and leading innocent people to be collateral damage. Ironically, the most open and honest character who seeks to learn and be a better ally is Eph, the rural southern white male professor. There is also great contrast to the faux activists who lead many of the problematic scenarios in other students, who show up to support and advocate for real issues that matter, but are drowned out by the spectacle made by the other events of the novel.A brilliant work of satirical fiction that hits close to home. I loved it!Thank you to St Martin’s Press for my copy. Opinions are my own.
2827753020	I actually read this book twice, once a couple of months ago with the intention of reviewing it and the second time for the sheer, unmitigated pleasure of it.If you are looking for a laugh-out-loud summer read that is as thought-provoking as it is entertaining then look no further, this is your book. Scott Johnston has a keen ear for not only dialogue but also for the preening psychobabble so prevalent in the hallowed halls of higher education today.If you have sent a child to college in recent memory and found yourself scratching your head at offerings such as "100 Years of Courting, Dating & Hooking Up on College Campuses" and "Feminist Post-Colonial Theory" (both of which I pulled directly from the sites of institutions to which I have actually paid tuition, cue the chagrin) this book will probably strike a chord. When the higher-ed establishment is overrun with safe spaces, virtue signaling, privilege-checking and the like it is probably long overdue for a skewering of this just sort. In Scott Johnston's imagined Devon University caricatures and characters abound. From the "pulled from the headlines" undergrad who views college as a 4-year rehearsal for her branding aspirations to the spandex-clad Furie who is Devon's Dean of Diversity and Inclusion memorable personages strut through the pages to great comic effect. One slightly naive professor gets caught in the crosshairs of a Title IX investigation run completely amok. Protests and counter protests ensue and the whole affair ends in a cinematic final scene that left me helpless with laughter.Analogy of the day: Scott Johnston is to the Ivy League and beyond as Tom Wolfe is to Wall Street.
2853204125	I'm such a sucker for books set in schools--this one at Devon University. I'm a sucker for a good satire and as a retired English teacher, I'm also a sucker for references to classic literature--as in this novel when Huck Finn is challenged as being racist with no "content warning" (even as it's taught in a nineteenth century English class)! I laughed so hard while reading this brilliant novel; nothing is sacrosanct here! Johnston examines the elite white socialites, trigger warnings, gender identity issues, personal pronouns, social media, secret societies, fraternities, racial inequality, sexual assault, Title IX, and literally everything relevant to today. The characters--like protagonist Eph and student Lulu--are funny and quirky while still remaining realistic without being stereotypes. I simply loved this novel as it calls attention to so many issues that plague our politically correct tendencies and reminds us to sometimes take a step back and just laugh for a change!Thanks to NetGalley for this ARC!
2738176298	I received this in a Goodreads giveaway. I feel like Scott Johnston owes me money for finishing this. Do you think racism is solved, and anyone who complains about it is just too sensitive? Do you think most rape accusations are false? Have you ever used a black person as a prop to prove that you aren't racist?If you answered yes to any of these questions, this may be the "satire" you are looking for.This supposed satire is conservative propaganda filled with implicit racism and sexism. It's hard to say if this is the author's implicit biases showing through in his writing or if it is done on purpose so that people who complain can be told that they are too sensitive.I was going to write more, but this book isn't worth the effort. Read it if you like David Brooks.It makes a good coaster. Soaks up spilled coffee really well.
2855804251	HEAR YE, HEAR YE, all you who work with or near college students must read this book. Johnston has written a brilliant satire on today’s college politics. I laughed out loud many times, read portions to colleagues because so much of it touches the truths of campus life and over.zealous political correctness. I found myself remembering many campus incidents with students who used magic phrases like those echoed in the book to pursue their personal agendas. It is the story of Eph, a college professor awaiting tenure who begins a bloody descent into public humiliation and persecution following his attempts to teach a classic Mark Twain novel in his American literature seminar. He soon becomes a political target of a seriously disturbed student and power hungry zealots who use Eph to further their own agendas. Since I don’t want to include spoilers, let it suffice to say, I highly recommend this to everyone who loves to chuckle and try to understand the vagaries of today’s sexuality and politics. Thank you Netgalley and Scott Johnston for giving me a really great book to read and review.
2862872768	Warning. If you are not the type who enjoys laughing hysterically out loud, then avoid this book. Campusland by Scott Johnston is absolutely hilarious, one of the funniest books I have read in many years. The ARC, courtesy of NetGalley and MacMillan Publishers and in exchange for an honest review is a hoot.. The book follows the adventures of a young, untenured English professor Eph Russell at a beleaguered Ivy League college populated with trust fund brats, campus radicals and would-be radicals, a social climbing wanna be model, militant feminists, a clueless Dean who believes money CAN solve everything and committee upon committee for self righteous and politically correct ideas. No sacred cow is left unmilked or unskewered when Russell's classroom discussions of Mark Twain garners the attention of the various campus factions, ultimately resulting in a riotous climax of epic proportions (including a 12' foot tall penis and matching vagina). Original, funny and highly recommended.
2904446349	Oh, wow! What a breath of fresh air! Not since a Mel Brooks movie have we attempted to laugh at ourselves in order to feel better. Scott Johnston must have made a list of all the recent U.S. news that needed to chill, then wrote this book to address every single one of them. As I read, numerous bits of news jumped up in my memory and yes, it’s something that we need to chill and snicker about today. For example, the rich little college gentleman who was on a “hunger strike” (oh, please), the students clicking their fingers because clapping may upset someone (oops, forgot to say “trigger warning”), the image of the young lady screaming to the skies in sheer agonizing pain (I did this when I gave birth ;), the knee-jerk reactions of college campuses to throw money at issues, then they quietly slink away. He even jabs at himself on the cover of his book, social media-style.I noticed that a minimal few readers were deeply offended by the attempt at humor Mr. Johnston offers here. My advice to you: read this again in five years. Maybe by then, you’ll get it.Also, after reading the author’s note, I plan to read “Unwanted Advances” by Laura Kipnis. This is one area of the book that Scott makes clear, he’s somewhat joking about the matter but it’s far from funny.A nice refreshing change whose time is due, from an author who is eloquent and well educated, I only hope others will be as brave as Scott Johnston was and display some past events for what they are.(I received an advance copy of this book from NetGalley in exchange for an unbiased review. Thanks so much to St. Martin’s Press and NetGalley for making it available.)
2714013470	As a woman who graduated from a college not unlike Devon (Beat Yale!), Campusland really struck a familiar chord with me. I found it to be hilariously funny in places, scary as all get out in others, and a great read in general. Johnston has a gift for dialogue, and some of my favorite sections involved "The Mound", a monosyllabic frat brother who was absolutely hilarious. I felt sorry for poor, un-woke Eph, the naive professor who finds himself on the receiving end of the lash of PC culture and Title IX. This book was a real eye-opener, and would make a great gift for parents who are sending kids off to college, kids who are sending themselves off to college, and/or anyone concerned about the repression of free speech on college campuses. Lots of timely topics covered by this clear thinking author. Bravo.
2855441838	Just finished this tonight! While it is a work of fiction and meant to be satire, there is also so much truth behind the storylines & characters! This book is narrated by multiple voices: a professor at a prestigious private university, a bright and very privileged freshman girl recently beginning her studies there, a jaded frat brother, the President of the university, a revolutionary who can’t figure out what to fight for, and more.The basic premise is to give us a taste of what higher education is today, particularly in a climate of social progress, where everyone feels marginalized and wants to be heard. The race to see who is “most woke” is real. In Campusland, an enterprising young woman who wants to be the new “It Girl” begins a snowball chain of events that takes everyone down with her like dominos! A Title IX investigation of misconduct takes a hapless professor from popularity and security to that of a campus pariah. This sets in motion a desire for everyone on Devon campus and eventually around the world to take a side. Despite its serious moments and thought provoking content, this book had MANY hilariously funny moments that had me laughing out loud!! I either LOVED or loved-to-hate each character. Also, the dialogue is perfection!! I highly recommend this book, especially if you ever attended college, have kids in college or work on a college campus!!! The ending could not have been better and I’m so so so glad I read this book! 5 Stars! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Thank you, #Netgalley!#Campusland
2805170792	From my review at motherbookerblog.com:Campusland promises to be a hilarious and brutal look at an Ivy League style college. It is set in the fictional college of Devon University over the space of a school year. We see how the time passes for a small group of students and faculty. The book is narrated from the point of view of the well-meaning old Dean, a passionate English professor, a bored freshman social media star, a group of fraternity bros, and a political activist wanting to shake everything up. It discusses all of the major social topics of the day in a way that the author is keen to remind us is both realistic and really funny. And he really means it. It's just ufortnuate that it's not actually true. Well, at least the funny bit. I can't really speak for the state of American higher education establishments. But, still, I have my suspicions that a lot of this is hyperbole coming from a place of bitterness.The narrative to Campusland is what I would describe as very thin. It plays out more like a television series than a book. We experience lots of little episodes that all culminate in one big finale. There are lot of jumps in time and not a lot of development. And, crucially, not as many jokes as Scott Johnson would have you believe. Devon is presented as one of those politically correct and "woke" colleges where they are worried about offending everyone and teach their first year boys about consent on their first day. All the students are the kind of people that journalists over the age of 40 would describe as "snowflakes" because they hate racism, sexual assault, and sexism. There is a lot of student protesting throughout this book but there is never a point when it is presented as anything other than ridiculous. The students are ridiculous for protesting and the school is shown to be ridiculous for listening to them. Then there's the over-exaggerated committee that ensures student welfare and equality. Rather than being a necessary thing it is written as a joke. A group of people out to cause problems over the smallest of matters.But, the biggest problem I have with this book is the central storyline. A storyline that has an impact on every character we meet. Freshman student and socialite, Lulu Harris, isn't sure why she went to university when she simply plans to become a star. Still, it looks good and she can sleep her way around campus at least. Until, after a one-night stand, she bashes her eye on a table and finds herself labelled as a victim of sexual assault. What happens next is a story in which Lulu, the slutty New York It Girl, makes a false rape claim against her Literature Professor, Eph Russell. A claim that is taken seriously by everyone but Lulu. It sees the new Dean for Equality set her sights on getting the innocent and sweet Eph sacked even once Lulu reveals the truth.Again, this is supposed to be a funny story. A young girl trying to get media attention though a silent protest that gains a lot of traction. A professor who did nothing wrong but keeps saying the wrong thing. A woman who lets the power get to her head for wanting acclaim amongst her peers. Natural sources of comedy. What the book actually does is give credence to the idea that girls simply cry rape when they regret having sex with someone. I don't think the idea of sexual assault or fake claims of sexual assault are grounds for comedy but, if they were, this certainly wasn't the way to do it. This is a vicious and toxic book that isn't even funny enough to justify what it's doing.When you're being insulting in a comedic sense there is a fine line between being funny and being plain mean. There is never a point in Campusland when Scott Johnson ever goes into being funny. This is the kind of awful frat boy humour that just misunderstands the people it's making fun of. We hear feminists say things like "consent doesn't matter if you're a man" and push young girls into making rape allegations. This is the same kind of exaggerated bullshit that is being pushed in the media about millennials. When in actual fact, they're a lot more tuned in and sensible. It just makes Johnson seem like a bitter old man who has decided younger generations aren't worth listening to. It's pathetic and I had a hard time finishing this book. And I say that not just because I found it offensive. It was also not very well-written and the characters were massively under-developed. They all had one trait and that was it. And they were all such lazy stereotypes. There was not one original or interesting idea in this entire book.
2770495735	If you find yourself shaking your head over the weird and exasperating directions society has been moving recently, this is the book for you. It deals with the some of the ridiculous ways that racial and sexual injustices are being exploited in a satirical, lighthearted way that conveys the thought that extremism must be curtailed. It is has great characters, snappy dialogue and a thought-provoking message. I especially like the way it recognizes that real problems exist but also manages to lampoon those who are utilizing them for their own agenda. The author does a good job in walking that fine line in this entertaining book. I won a copy of this book in a Goodreads giveaway for this honest review.
2702259073	Thank you so much Scott Johnson and St. Martin’s Press for giving me the opportunity to read this irreverent, hysterically funny and controversial parody on college life. Boy did it bring back memories. The characters are well developed and the dialog sharp and witty. Loved this book and would highly recommend it to anyone who can laugh at themselves and at the bureaucratic red tape that makes up the university system. Campusland is right on point! Thank you St. Martin’s Press for sponsoring a wonderful Goodreads giveaway!
2703420694	A book that will make you laugh, cringe then laugh some more. The funniest situations are the ones that start with truth and are then amplified with humor. The Campusland narrative winds through events that would have been farcical 10 years ago, but today have become comically (or sadly) true. The book shows how out of whack our world has become without becoming preachy. Johnston has a keen eye for social commentary and humor - everyone will laugh when they read this book. Campusland is a great story that shows the results of self-righteousness run amok.
2933033232	I finished this book in July and can't stop thinking about it. It has captured the spirit and ambience of most colleges and, in my opinion, portrays the holy grail of academia. I am no stranger to academia. I have two master's degrees, have been an adjunct professor, a summer sessions professor, a guest lecturer, an associate director of counseling at a university student health center and am married to a man who taught at a university for 36 years. This novel, believe it or not, knows from whence it speaks. Eph Russell, a professor of English, is beyond thrilled to be on a tenure track position in the English Department of Devon College, a near Ivy in New England. He loves everything about Devon including teaching, the quality of the students, and likes most of his colleagues. It has been hinted to him that he will get tenure next year. As the semester starts, he tells his class they will be reading Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain. Chaos ensues and Eph is called a racist because of some of the book's content. There are protests, sit-downs, demonstrations and he goes from being a respected member of the Devon society to being ostracized by everyone except his girlfriend and a very few students.One of the students who doesn't ostracize Eph is Lulu, a rich material girl who gets anything she wants from her rich daddy. She is about as intellectually and emotionally deep as a goldfish bowl. However, she is clever. She has a crush on Eph and, even as he spurns her advances, she manages to involve him in allegations of sexual inappropriateness.The book catches the characters wonderfully. There is Milton Strauss, the College's President, who likes to think he walks the students' walk but basically walks whatever walk is easiest and brings more money to Devon. There is Red Wheeler. Every college has a Red Wheeler, a radical troublemaker who has been taking classes on and off for over 7 years in this and that but still has no major and no degree. What he wants is to brew up a crisis with himself at the center. Any cause is good enough for Red. Then there's Malika Malik-Adams, Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion. No matter what you do, she'll find something to nail you with. And of course, looming over all of this is Title IX, a federal law originally developed to provide equality for female students. Somehow or other this law has turned into a Godzilla with a life of its own, knocking down any 'offender' in its path and no one is quite sure anymore what it does.As Eph tries to navigate this year at Devon, he comes to some important self-realizations. The reader learns more than they probably ever wanted to about academia. I'm not a bitter person. My career and my husband's have been successful at the universities where we worked. However, I think, in a way, we were lucky. The Political Correctness sword of Damocles can fall on anyone at any time on a college campus. Read this book. You will laugh, shake your head and be in for a great read.
2713329152	Scott Johnston's first novel is special. From the first page, we know that we are in sure hands as Johnston serves up crackling dialog and a succession of closely-observed, comic situations. Characters drive the story; every one of them has a strategy; and very few of them actually are as they might wish to be seen. Lulu Harris, amoral Manhattan debutante, deserves her own novel, and poor fish-out-of-water Professor Ephraim Russell plays the bewildered straight man in a madhouse Ivy League world of trust fund agitators, permanently aggrieved protestors, undergraduate twits with phony English accents, professionally jealous academics, and scheming administrators. Campusland is great fun all the way to its surprising conclusion.
3140284899	I loved this book. It is satire at its best, and the author Scott Johnston masterfully weaves a story about a fictional University, Devon, and takes on a subject matter that many people would be afraid to touch, especially in this age of sensitivity, and that is progressive policies on the campuses of universities that have gone overboard and instead of enhancing the learning experience have managed to stifle that very experience.Devon, a fictional Ivy league school, is a university with a long history dating back nearly 3oo years. It is supported largely by rich donors who graduated from the university, successful business people, and by federal grants. The student body is more diverse than ever before, meeting racial, gender (58 genders in all), income standards and disregarding SAT scores... All to meet the requirements of Title IX, which on the face of it seems fair and logical but in reality has created less creativity, diversity, and has seriously limited the teaching abilities of so many Professors and educators."Campusland" is full of wonderful characters, but to me none more well developed, funny, and realistic as LuLu Harris, a rich Manhattanite, whose father went to Devon and has in a sense forced this 'hell' of a place on her. She is the most unlikely of heroines... Rich, entitled, uses her looks and beauty to her advantage, and yet she sees right through the 'bull' and insanity that has come about because of all these regulations and plays it for what it's worth. She is an amazing character that some might describe as a cliche, but I describe as a colorful and true representation of today's youth on many of the campuses of our colleges and universities. I strongly recommend this book.
2812572047	Campusland is a very entertaining look at the low-hanging fruit of today's "Woke" college campuses. The book skewers many of the asinine cultural shibboleths of the Academy, such as celebration and admiration of victim-hood, social justice warriors vigorously attacking anyone that dare deviate from the leftist orthodoxy, and the crucially important pecking order of the college's progressive heirarchy.The author Scott Johnston applies his gimlet eye and wry sense of humor as a much needed take-down of the idiocy that has permeated today's college campuses. It is a must read!!
2780446634	Well written, funny, and timely satire. Most adults look back on their own college years nostalgically and dismiss as hyperbole the reports about how free speech and thought are under attack by faculty and student social justice warriors. The problem is real and Johnston sheds some welcome light on it.
2812968309	Extremely creative and timely yarn about campus life and the current perverted politically correct culture we live in. Having two daughters who recently graduated from an ivy school, very similar in feel to Devon, the events that unfold are very close to home. And the cataclysmic ending brings one back to the unadulterated humor of the Animal House generation! Have fun reading this one!!
2705269552	Fair warning: I won a free ARC of this book in a Goodreads giveaway. There are several main characters, with focus shifting among them as needed. Milton Strauss is the president of Devon University, a somewhat prestigious ivy league school. He relates well to the students, and does a fine job of simultaneously keeping both them and Devon’s many alumni donors happy.Eph teaches English at Devon, and has been dating Milton’s secretary. He enjoys teaching, and the students generally seem to like him. He’ll be up for tenure soon, and is kicking off the semester with The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.Red is the leader of the Progressive Student Alliance at Devon. He prides himself on being the one to take the lead in any social justice issues on campus.Lulu is a budding Manhattan socialite, attending Devon as a freshman. She thinks her English prof is kind of hot …This is one of those novels that builds slowly. Scott Johnston spends his time setting up his dominoes just so. But when they start falling it's just glorious to watch as lines converge on a wonderfully spectacular train wreck of a climax.This book was a delight to read. Recommended!
2714127887	Laugh out loud! Campusland draws you in immediately, and remains a page-turner through it's climactic finale. The characters are wildly entertaining. Johnston's adroit sendup of the absurdity of present day college culture is hilarious. As a parent of soon-to-be college students, I found the book captivating, eye-opening, and perfectly timely. Gave it to my 17 y/o daughter who became engrossed as well (a first!), and it sparked some great conversations. Heady and riveting, but somehow still feels like a light-read. Highly recommend!
2727421165	CAMPUSLAND is a great airplane, beach, anywhere, anytime read. Smart, fast-moving with contentious charismatic characters, it is part BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES, part Animal House, for anyone w/ college memories 1970 forward, this is a must, fun, in the moment read that will not disappoint. God Bless Tom Wolfe who is looking down smiling at CAMPUSLAND
2754505191	I found this to be an amazing read and I easily give it five stars! Regardless if you agree or disagree with Scott’s politics it is still an amazing book. I highly recommend this book!
2699509268	I am a faculty brat. My father is a now-retired professor of economics at Vanderbilt University. I was born at Vanderbilt Hospital. I practically grew up there. I spent every summer in college (and spring break and fall break and Christmas break) working at the Vanderbilt Bookstore. One of my father's specialty areas is the economics of education. I was his research assistant for many years in my teens and twenties and learned a lot about the high ed system. I kick butt when the "colleges and universities" category comes up on Jeopardy! Needless to say, I very much gravitate to academic novels.In this book, we are at the fictional Devon University, an Ivy League college about two hours north of Manhattan. Eph is an English professor, specializing in 19th century American lit, on the tenure track. He's dating D'Arcy, the executive assistant to the college president. Everything seems hunky-dory in his life. Until a group of radical students (mostly not enrolled in his class) infiltrate his class, stage a protest over Huck Finn and its language, record a video of the protest, edit it to make Eph look very bad, and post it online. He is cleared eventually, mostly due to Lulu, a first year rich girl from Manhattan, who then proceeds to hit on him. While he politely and firmly rebuffs her, after a night when she stumbles home drunk after falling and giving herself a black eye, her R.A. insists on knowing who assaulted her. After a lot of pressure to name her attacker, she names Eph. Chaos ensues. And I haven't even mentioned the faux-British society, the literal ball-and-chain, the paper mache giant penis, the rapper, the movie star, and other myriad craziness that effectively passes for this not-quite-a-parody of university life today. Will Eph clear his name? Will Lulu figure out what to do with her life (and come clean about Eph)? Will Huck Finn be banned? What has happened to colleges today?In the vein of Dear Committee Members and Straight Man, this is a very funny academic novel that will have insiders crowing, and most of us laughing at nervously (especially those with college-age kids).
2790061305	A well written and creative look at modern college life, though with a decidedly partisan tilt. The first time novelist has done an impressive job turning out a page turner, but also accomplishes his apparent goal of turning the spotlight on the tough-to-navigate journey that is life on a university campus today. Humorous, cynical, sometimes uncaring and disrespectful, the author pulls no punches and makes it clear which side he's on. But definitely worth the read regardless of your politics.
2700058479	This was a laugh out loud read on an interesting and timely topic. The college admission scandal has been a very public reminder of how messed up things have become in the college world. Campusland is a wonderful satire that reminds us that there is a lot more dysfunction on college campuses than we realize.
2750621375	I received this book as part of a Goodreads giveaway and as a current college student found it extremely relevant. Scott Johnston brings the characters to life and manages to create an incredibly complex and fascinating plot. Recommend to all ages!
2757307695	An exhilarating read on the controversial topics of modern campus life. Spent many nights awake thinking about Johnstons numerous eye-opening takes on certain issues.
2888183579	Where has this novel been all my life? (Or, at least the last decade when political correctness has taken over our schools!) I'm practically doing a happy dance.I'm frankly shocked this found a publisher. Campusland does not pull punches or suffer fools, and it gleefully nails campus progressivism. Does that make it sound serious? Well, the subject matter is, but the writing is hysterical.I really didn't know what to expect from this book. It sat on my desk for a couple of weeks before I cracked it open. The delights therein were revealed almost immediately. It takes place over one year at an Ivy-like college called Devon (which is suspiciously like Yale). There is a wide variety of compelling characters (Lulu!) but the focus is on an English professor named Eph Russell who's up for tenure. Think he's going to run into problems? He does.I am a college administrator and Campusland says so many things I long to say myself but can't. Careers are destroyed over less these days. That's not a joke. Every chapter I was met with another, "Yes! thank God someone is saying that" moment. Never has an important message gone done with so many laughs. (Not that it gets every last detail about college life right...it doesn't, but really that's missing the point.)But I'm repeating what many other reviewers have said. What isn't being said enough is how good the writing is. My, can Johnston turn a phrase. The style is fresh and unique, and the use of language robust. I see some have compared it to Tom Wolfe. That's probably in the ballpark, but the prose is much tighter and the pages turn faster. The payoff at the end is priceless.Consider the following:"At that moment, Martika Malik-Adams, the dean of diversity and inclusion, farted. Not a small, sneak-it-out kind of fart, but an emphatic, clarion one finding its full voice through a thin barrier of straining spandex."Has there ever been a more erudite fart joke? What a wonderful blend of high and low brow. Animal House, meet the Oxford English Dictionary! It also beautifully diffuses a moment of dramatic tension. (Bonus points: it brings low an obnoxious college administrator.)Read this. Just read this.And can I just add that making the dean of diversity a bad guy (or woman, in this case) is a totally ballsy move? That's going to trigger a lot of people but left me in stitches, thinking, I can't believe he went there.Please, go there again.P.S. To those of you who one-starred Campusland: it looks like your problems are mostly rooted in politics. Fine, you can have whatever opinions you like, but it's hard to deny Campusland is both well written and funny, even if the conservative bent bothers you. One star seem disingenuous to me.
2935805899	for most of my time reading Campusland, I was collecting evidence for a lengthy polemic to post here about everything wrong with the "satire" this novel calls itself, but honestly, it's just not worth it. if Scott Johnston (avowed right-leaning centrist as he no doubt is; his previous works in beer studies and golf betting lend credence to the theory that his novel all but confirms) read it, he would probably just call me a special snowflake and ask if i wanted a participation trophy for reading outside my comfort zone. i don't, but i am glad it only took me about a day to finish this book, because any longer would have been an egregious waste of my time - what other way is there to describe what can only be characterized as the product of a sentient Facebook comment thread, a novel that does nothing more than dramatize the outraged "what's wrong with the kids and the progressives today"s of your least favorite uncle, and concludes, unsurprisingly, with a happy ending that says life would be better if we could go back to the good old days, when them pesky gays didn't ask for acknowledgement, sexual harassment was swept under the rug as the over-exaggeration it likely was (i mean, what's with all these famous "survivors" today), and professors could sleep with their students without fear of reprisal (Johnston may not imply this one outright, but his citing of Laura Kipnis in the endnote is telling). perhaps one in thirty of Johnston's targets hits with any truth behind it (the novel is too scattershot to mount any single compelling argument), and, even more essentially perhaps, it fails to be funny in any way. nothing here is laughable unless you think lowbrow humor about shitting in non-gendered bathrooms is hilarious. the purpose of satire is to speak truth to power in an indirect way; all this ever does is punch down and speak to Johnston's desire to return to the power of the old days (as embodied in his good old boy hero Eph Russell who, like Lucky Jim before him, is more tone-deaf buffoon than put-upon intellectual; when your main character's not-racist play is a black girlfriend who tells him he's not racist, I'm bored). i would call it reprehensible, but it's more just deeply embarrassing, especially given all the Goodreads reviews that are raving about it. i saw a comment on the AVClub once that characterized the Goodreads contingent as a body of morons; while the same could apply to that site, i've never felt that statement more true than in the reactions to this failure of a novel.
2890748956	'Campusland'My choice for best summer read is 'Campusland', by Scott Johnston. I was fortunate enough to receive an advanced copy and I enjoyed it immensely. And I hate to say it, but I learned some things, too. Johnston has walked down some of the same streets that I have – New York, the University system – but he sees everything, and adds his own wonderful sense of humor and intelligence.At a time when few people are addressing any serious issue head-on, Johnston has addressed what I consider to be a very serious issue in Campusland – the current college culture. The college landscape is changing. And I do not think for the better. When I went to American University in the 1980’s I knew they were liberal and would write most of my papers accordingly. Only one teacher went so far that I felt compelled to do a side-by-side comparison of the assigned reading material to the ‘Communist Manifesto’. I got the only ‘C’ of my college career in that class, and I am proud of that ‘C’. I have no idea how reasonable people justify paying to attend, attend, and ultimately graduate any institution of higher learning today.Where I am severe, Johnston has the unique ability to wade through the same mine field but make it funny – very funny. He allows the reader to see with clarity the direction education is heading…. (…or trailing….)But, Johnston is a good writer, not a pushy writer. Each reader will have to determine for himself where he wants to be on the teaching/learning scale.
2959326689	Hilarious trashy fun. Scott Johnston is shooting fish in a barrel, but some of these fish deserve nothing less than a Howitzer to the gills. Set at Devon University, which bears MORE than a passing resemblance to Yale, CAMPUSLAND spoofs just about everyone - socialite wannabes, trust-fund "activists," administrators wielding their power like axes, and a president desperate to be liked by one and all. Plus an out-of-control fraternity, some seriously opinionated "underserved" folks, and a whole lot of entitlement. The story is a dizzying mélange. Lulu Harris is a NYC kid bored to tears at provincial campus life. She needs to up her social visibility, and makes a series of drastic errors on her way to notoriety. Along the way, she manages to evoke the wrath of just about everyone in her path of wanton destruction, including a professor eager to make tenure, despite having every disadvantage of the modern day - white, cisgender, teaches 19th-century literature. Oh, and his degree is from Florida State, which is NOT a good thing at a school like Devon. Gender politics, campus unrest, hooking up, day drinking, political correctness - it's all here. Johnston is a terrific wordsmith, so it's a delight to read. Often laugh-out-loud funny, as well. I zoomed through this book, enjoying every potshot the author dares to take at our scared, sacred youth who need so much "safe space" in which to grow up as entitled brats. Zing!
2941559496	Hilarious and effective satire. I loved recognizing types I know and also playing "hmmm, who would get angry at THIS paragraph?" If you work in academia, aren't self tighteous and can take a joke, and are willing to laugh at yourself occasionally, you shoukd enjoy this look at contemporary umiversity life and functioning. The best satire has seeds of the truth in it, and those may be found here. The author does a very good job for a first novel, and has an excellent ear for dialogue. The story is effectively organized as to plot, using one academic year for its unfolding.I can laugh at this without fear -- I am an emeritus now, and had tenure anyway. Cheers!
2891237662	With his first novel, Mr. Johnston has gone a long way to filling the shoes of the late Tom Wolfe. He has the uncanny ability to recreate the language and feel of our elite campuses today, His characters jump off the page and you say to yourself, "I know that fellow". At times I found myself laughing out loud which I haven't done since I read Catch 22. Even so, he deftly treads the line between realism and farse which is notoriously hard to do.
2712022741	Campusland is a timely, sharp and often hilarious look at campus life at ivy-covered Devon University. Johnston has a keen eye and ear for the often farcical events occurring on America's college campuses today as political correctness reigns supreme. Events at Devon can take political correctness to extremes as Eph Russell and Lulu Harris make their way through Devon life with comic results. Campusland is great fun all the way to its surprising conclusion.
3003420812	Thank you to St. Martin’s Press for providing me with debut author Scott Johnston’s novel, Campusland, in exchange for an honest review. Devon University is a “not-quite Ivy League” east-coast institution that has provided a quality education for generations. Through fond memories and rich traditions, Devon has built a strong group of wealthy alumni, who are happy to support their alma matter, as long as it continues to reflect the values they treasure.However, there is a problem. The world is changing and life at Devon is beginning to reflect the most extreme state of these changes. Campusland is a satire and it is laugh-out-loud hilarious. Johnston pokes at several issues, however important they may be, that have spiraled out of control due to a lack of common sense. For example, when Freshman student Lulu Harris takes a spill and is injured on campus, no one will believe her when she tells them the truth: she was not sexually assaulted. Instead of believing the truth, the situation escalates to the point that Lulu feels that she has to name an accuser and decides to point the finger at her professor, Eph Russell. Lulu is complicated. She is a NYC party girl, who is stuck at a college far from the city and is feeling her status slip away. She has failed at making friends and can’t seem to catch a break. Lulu had a bit of a crush on Eph and his rejection stung, however she did not initially intend on blaming him or anyone else. She tried to tell the truth, but no one would believe her word. When she names Eph as her attacker, she realizes that she has an opportunity to promote her social status through a social cause. In a calculated move, Lulu starts a nightly ritual of crawling through campus. Lulu’s crawl is silent and she never speaks of her “assault,” however other people assume that she is making a statement and speaking on behalf of all sexual assault victims. Lulu becomes a sensation and she doesn’t correct any of the assumptions.Currently, with so many powerful men being accused of sexual assault, there is such outcry at women not being believed when they are attacked, this shows the same problem in a reverse situation. Lulu was never attacked, but no one will believe her. She is only believed, when she becomes the victim that people want her to be. Her voice has actually been silenced by the very people who pretend to support her. It’s sick. Eph, the true victim, is a white male from the South and he is helpless as his career go down the drain. Not only is he accused by Lulu, but prior to the Lulu situation, his course syllabus comes under attack by students accusing him of racism for teaching “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn,” and for not including more writers of color. Eph has counter argument to their accusations, but the momentum of this group, including many students who are not enrolled in his class, grows. Eph keeps expecting that his luck will change and that surely having truth on his side will prevail. However, not even the clearest proof of his innocence will stop those who want him gone. By virtue of his historical power of being a white male, he is not allowed to be the victim and the people who have the power to help him, see it as a loss, if they accept the truth of his innocence. At Devon, having power is more important than morals or truth. Fairness is a sham. Campusland reflects a world where common sense is missing and extremism rules. This is a story world where people are very divided and there is no room for civil debate. It is uncomfortable and reflects our current world with a “You’re either with us or against us” attitude. I loved Campusland. Johnston’s novel is a hilarious page-turner that is a keen observation of our society. I can’t wait to read Johnston’s next book. Like my review? Check out my blog!
4173236570	People who say this doesn't represent the truth of what is going on today are lying or are blind. Pretty much everything in this book is based on true life events we followed in the news. Politically speaking Scott Johnston is correct talking about the ridiculous woke crowd of today. So ridiculous that it is hard to make it worse in a book which is probably why many think it is over the top.Yet I wasn't a fan of writing. It was written in a clumsy amateurish style that even made me, a person who obviously shares the author's political beliefs, feel like he is just collecting what people say online and putting it into a book. Didn't feel it was actually funny, I did laugh a few times otherwise it feels forced. Same with characters. They feel like unpleasant caricatures and the guy in the middle of it is an exaggerated good person who is portrayed like a victim too much. I don't like such things in leftist book and same was the case here. I know the author was trying to show that the so called privileged people can have a tough life, aren't bad and may be discriminated on a lot of things (like their birth state) but it came off too forced and kinda whiny.Yet I got to say I really liked the very ending of the book. Lulu, the one character whom I actually enjoyed and who amused me, didn't disappoint.
2704931415	As someone who: is currently in higher ed, went to an Ivy-wannabe as an undergrad, and leans left politically, I thought this was great satire/commentary of certain types of universities and of the political mess in the contemporary U.S. The author is clearly right-wing (politically) and has an ax to grind with academia, but many of the things he alludes to rang true to me. The cast of characters are cringe-worthy but perfect for satire (except the protagonist, who you empathize with throughout, even if he is frustratingly naive at times). The whole thing reminded me in some ways of a Kafkaesque nightmare, only a century later of course.My biggest complaint was a lack of understanding on some of the mechanics of university administration. For instance, getting tenure seemed more like getting a promotion at a private company than the actual tenure process. Which is weird, given that the author briefly worked as an adjunct professor.Thanks to the publisher and Goodreads giveaways for a free ARC!
2711816261	Campusland is a sharp and funny look at college life today. Agree or disagree with Scott Johnston's views on the role of political correctness on campus, there's no denying that he's written a novel that brings an entire University to life, and uses that universe -- as Charles Dickens or Tom Wolfe might have -- to make us laugh and think anew about the way our modern world works. This is a great book for a senior about to attend -- or to leave -- college. It's also a book for anyone who wonders what will become of a generation that experiences college as a time to be careful rather than carefree. Plus, it's a hoot to read.
3013029275	I was ready to give this book two stars.It’s hardly satire in almost everything depicted actually has happened on campus. Interestingly, had this book been written a quarter century ago it would have been a minor Fahrenheit 451 - the storyline preposterous, farcical with just a soupçon of truth.By the book’s mid point there was just enough solid character rationalizations and a few neat twists to bump the work up a star.
3042026732	Quick note before I start. When I review a book, I usually write down a few pointers and notes that I want to remark on. This time I had about 40. Good or bad? Well, 1 out of 5 stars probably means bad! Before anyone criticizes me of having a thin skin, or, as Kirkus Reviews puts it, “Trigger warning… it [this book] should not be read by those who lack of a sense of humor…”, I mostly fault this book for not being satire. I found this book (and got it subsequently from the library) after finding it on the Amazon list of the top 100 selling satires. The writer may not have been aware of someone marketing it with the wrong genre. Except let’s not kid ourselves. This book is to satire as Alanis Morissette’s Ironic is to irony. As in some satire is there, but it’s definitely not intentional. Most of it “this is supposed to be funny so it’s satire”.For those of you who don’t know, humor may flow from satire, but satire does not flow from humor. For example, satire would be: a man with whose head is literal poop. “Satire” is: the author calling the man a poop head (and optionally finding that funny). You can guess which of the two the book has. Not to mention multiple “jokes” that other characters find funny.Before I go on, I want to list some of the good parts of the book. The book is mostly well paced, and the conflict that leads to the conclusion is well constructed even if I don’t like the satire (though the ending comes a bit later than it should). The book flows well (I read a bunch of it out loud to my baby because he likes hearing me talk) except for a few parts (by the way, greatest tip ever. You are either the best writer ever or a negligent one if you don’t do this). Also there is one great line, quoting the back of the book: “But something about the latest winds blowing through campus had a dark edge, as if a subtle transition were going on from the American Revolution to the French.” The problem is the author knows it, and it’s used to even better effect in the first third of the book, and it’s unfortunate that it’s repeated on the back. Someone much smarter than me said something about how a particularly stand-out effect is more noticeable when it’s repeated, even if other things are repeated much more often. The last good thing is when a progressive visits a monarchist (let’s be honest, regressive and probably Fascist but they don’t actively think about it, much like the alt-right) student group. The progressive’s voice (but let’s be honest, the author ‘thinks’ through them every time he changes perspective) notes the old furniture and stale air. That’s some quality satire. I suggest the author read Children of Men because the book has more of it than this one.Okay, now all the bad things. So this is going to be mostly about the satire thing. The purpose of a book, especially satire, is to say something. What does this book say?If I understand it correctly, it’s supposedly the South Park take on everything, don’t take anything too seriously. No one does anything sincerely. The progressive group on campus cares only about recognition, not anything tangible. The African American student group just cares about money. The feminists (called the Womyn Collective because apparently takes from the 70s is still a thing that goes on, more on this later x 1) is a bunch of ugly losers who love arguing more than the argument. I’m not kidding there. The only sincere students are described homely. Okay? In effect they’re all straw men. Whatever, the author is making fun of them, I can hear my own straw man saying. But the thing about satire is that we should know what the author is talking about. Unless there’s an obvious person that is being satirized (Stalin in the form of Snowball), they should be sincere because you are making fun of them. If you are satirizing an idea, like the boss guy in 1984 (it’s been awhile, okay?), then they have to be sincere in what they believe. It’s just that their beliefs are worthy of satire. Otherwise, what you’re saying is that no one who believes in progressivism is sincere in their beliefs. Therefore anyone who ever says anything progressive is actually after their own self gain. Not that the ideas are wrong, it’s just that anyone who holds them really just wants some material benefit. Yeah, now you can extend that to rape and sexual assault because that’s what the author does!A short note before I go on. The leader of the progressive student group is actually super rich and gets money from a trust fund. And he disrespects capitalism! So he’s a hypocrite. Again, this is the same as before, that no one sincerely believes that capitalism is bad. And he’s never worked a day in his life! And he’s guilty of moral turpitude! That gets his granddad, the man who really earned the money, from giving him anymore. It feels like wish fulfillment, but whose? Also he worked at an Amazon warehouse for a summer, as if that also makes him a hypocrite. What? If Jeff Bezos worked there, I would respect him (for that alone). If Bernie Sanders worked there, I would applaud him. Idem with anyone at all! It’s hard work, and you definitely don’t earn as much as you deserve. Amazon may do bad things to small businesses, but that’s a management decision. If you have to work there to get by, then you shouldn’t be criticized. There is no ethical consumption under capitalism, yes, but ethics only apply if you have a choice. Starving to death because you can’t find any other work is not one. I’m reviewing this book on Goodreads and Amazon. Does that make me a hypocrite? Okay, the answer is yes as long as I have a choice. Do I feel like I have one? No. So more yes than no, but more no than if I weren’t trying to make it as a writer.The first half of the conflict is the progressive students accuse Ephraim (the first POV character) (who I’m pretty sure is not Jewish even though he has a very Jewish name. Maybe biblical names are popular in Alabama?) of having a racist reading list for his 19th century literature class. The first book is The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, and anyone who’s read it or heard about it, know what this is about. So the author is trying to pretend the conflict was about getting the work banned and not about the teacher not dealing with the use of the N-word. Anyway, the main conflict is that Ephraim refuses to put more African American authors on the syllabus. He says it’s because there weren’t any until later. So it’s about facts why this is happening. Facts, guys! Except a really cursory google search had Huckleberry Finn coming out in 1885… and there were a handful of African American writers by that late in the 19th century? If the author had used an antebellum example or something. Then the professor can’t do it because it’s about Romantics vs. Realists. Uh, okay? Later on the book, another teacher comments that teaching is easy because you teach a semester once, you teach the same thing every year (more on that later x 1). If you’re teaching elementary languages or something, I can understand that (though the teachers should be updating their textbooks and teaching methods at least every now and then), but that’s the definition of a stodgy old teacher, and the reason why making compromises means doing the hard thing and actually having to give a crap about your job.This argument basically boils down onto “the people asking for progressive policies are asking for us to change things! We have to make decisions, but it’s a fact that the classics of literature are that for a reason.” There are two primary faults with this conversation. If a school is deciding to change, then it has to make sacrifices. Some of those will be painful, and so a part of making changes and accepting diversity is accepting that you don’t know everything, and what you value most is not what others value most. The second point is that it’s not a fact about what are classics. Okay, so I should say I didn’t do literature, at least not in English. I did some Italian literature, but from what I’ve seen about the ‘classics’ of literature, it’s a lot of people’s opinion over time. Good literature was a response to older stuff, and so on and so forth. It’s a bit simple and easy when Kant argued about universals, but there is no literature that is universal! It’s like Chomsky arguing about universal grammar. It’s pretty useful and convenient for western languages and culture, but it’s not true everywhere! Any decent teacher would take what their students say seriously and ponder it. They wouldn’t just throw it out because a student says it. Ephraim really should’ve thought about African American authors and said “hey, let’s include a few.” In fact, on page 98, the author Elizabeth Keckley is suggested, and Ephraim (and his African American girlfriend, more on this later x 2) are like ‘who?’ What a bad teacher! Why is he up for tenure if he isn’t willing to learn something new? Even though American Literature is Arts and Sciences, the scientific method applies! Teachers learn new things all the time!The second main conflict comes from Lulu Harris (the second POV) falsely accuses Ephraim of sexual assault. She does it as a way of getting out of trouble for stealing. And she starts doing an elaborate walk around campus with a chain attached to her ankle. She’s just doing it to get Twitter followers, but everyone rallies around her as a victim. What is the message of this? Well, another character says it makes it harder for real victims to come forward. Well, if you’re familiar with anyone who says they were sexually assaulted, this is literally the defense of the accusers every time. It came up when women were accusing Kavanaugh and Trump, but… according this logic, the accusations are never correct. Because no one’s ever sincere in what they believe! #Metoo is use about destroying good men who lose their jobs over false accusation, apparently.Then the teacher’s accusations goes to the Title IX committee, who don’t care about the truth. They just want to bring down a teacher because there must be sexual assault on campus, whether any actually happened. And people are trying to justify their jobs and high paychecks. Finally, in the last third we get to the heart of the author’s argument (especially because the author has a page About Campusland that says that this book is supposed to be funny… except the Title IX committees, which are really a thing and so unfair! In the book, Eph complains that it’s not fair, and he deserves to confront his accusers and have representation. Well, guess what? This is the exact same crap that people bring up about impeachment. Guess what? Only the Judicial branch of the government goes through that! Military Tribunals and education isn’t subject to those regulations. However, if Eph had tenure. So, yes, it isn’t very fair. However, the argument should really be against the tenure system which only gives an opportunity to defend themselves to teachers who have it. Associate professors and adjuncts are screwed. Why isn’t that touched on? I suspect it’s because the author doesn’t actually know what tenure means.Okay, now I’m going to get political/state my opinion.The first thing I want to talk about is one of the big themes of this book. Eph (who you should obviously recognize as the voice of the author) says ‘I’m progressive, but this is crazy! This isn’t real racism when a bunch of stuffy white people teach the same things forever and never have to change! It only happens when people say the N-word! Women can’t be at danger or feel endangered at the school because they constitute over 50% of the student body (hmm, I wonder if the peasantry of France before their revolution thought they were represented because they were over 50% of the population).’ Saying ‘I’m X but…’ is usually an indication that you’re not X. Anyone who is seriously progressive realizes that it’s an ongoing struggle. Gay marriage isn’t a step too far because we already have interracial marriage, for example. An idea that the author mocks (that the struggle must be ongoing) is fairly simple and well-accepted by anyone who fundamentally cares about these concepts.The second is a bunch of people really care about grammar in casual conversation (like someone caring that Title IX is used as a verb). If anyone in a non-academic setting gives someone else a hassle about that sort of thing, everyone would stop talking to them. Plus, I’m pretty sure stuff like that has come up in a few of the academic conferences I’ve gone to. Besides that, I’m pretty sure literature taught these days in English is much less normative. I can see it happening in foreign language classes, but even those weren’t sticklers about it unless it was in a paper. Italian universities were, but that’s not in America. I guess this is one advantage of doing Linguistics, where everyone cared much more about intended meaning than perfection.A side note here. Lulu makes fun of the jocks for having poor diction when she herself, at this point of the book, barely attends class and doesn’t care about her education. Also, she makes a joke about gay stereotypes. Dude, that does not fly anymore!The third, that should’ve been apparent by now (and , was the attitudes the author had about things. The back of the book says he went to college in the 80s. Examples are words like ‘correctamundo’, ‘total nob’, explaining what EDM means and what beer pong is, and going on and on about how fraternities are awesome and fun and constantly partying. During down time, the fraternity members were spitting loogies on the ceiling and seeing how long it took for them to fall back down. Uhh… do they not have smart phones? Like, I get it. I never was in a fraternity, and I graduated in 2015 (okay 2014 from a school that had fraternities), but c’mon. Along this line, the author complains about the drinking age being raised to 21 and explains its impact on college campuses. Holy moly! Who does not know that the drinking age is 21? And that college students drink a lot? And that the people who are over 21 help those that are under? Also, they refer to their beer as Natural Lite and not Natty Lite. I have never, ever heard someone in person call it Natural Lite. You should ask if they’re an alien. Also, wouldn’t they be drinking PBR (or as the author would call them, Pabst Blue Ribbon)? Maybe I’m dating myself here. Anyway, the book is set somewhere between 2017 and 2019, but it doesn’t feel like that other than some lip service about how progressive values are ruining campus life! Again, myself, but when I went to college (one for my undergrad, one for my Masters), it was a bastion of centrists. Teachers, events, everything. I wish it was this crazy place that the book says college is like, but it sure wasn’t that.Okay, I'm out of characters, but I have a lot more to say. That's what I think of this book.
2935739724	Devon is a small New England campus where things run at their unhurried pace as they always have. Eph Russell has been teaching English literature for quite some time and also this winter’s course seems to like him and his way of addressing the 19th century classics. When a minor incident in his classroom occurs – a student claiming trigger warning as Mark Twain uses offensive language in her view – suddenly, Eph’s world crumbles and things fall totally apart. Before the term is over, minority groups have gotten the upper hand on campus accusing staff of racism, sexism and all other kinds of –isms that can be found. Plus, Eph is at the centre of the revolt accused not only of being a white supremacist due to his reading of books written by white men but also of having assaulted and violated one of his students. This student however, Lulu, sees a chance of gaining her fifteen minutes of fame and she is determined not to let this chance pass by.Scott Johnston’s debut novel surely will not remain without any effect on the reader, in fact, it provokes strong emotions ranging from aversion to frustration, from laughing out loud to total desperation. It is hilarious at times and oftentimes simply infuriates you, most of all because you can imagine all the plot to be totally true. It is a chain of events set in motion, not even intentionally, but unstoppable and the way the characters react to it is more than authentic. There are many noteworthy and controversial aspects in this highly entertaining novel. First of all, the debate of “trigger warnings” in university that has been going on for some time. Wrapping students up in cotton wool in order not to confront them with reality has been an attitude that I always struggled with. Especially when it comes to literature which reflects the time of its origin, this is hard to understand. Therefore, the beginning of the novel when Eph Russell is accused of only reading white men – who else was there to be published in this period? – this is merely funny and can be dismissed as stupid somehow. The next step is the discussion of which gender somebody identifies himself/herself – or as in the novel: themselves. It goes without saying that LGBTI rights are a great achievement and that minorities should be respected in the same way as majorities. Yet, accusing somebody of misogyny because he is holding the door open definitely ridicules the earnest cause – unfortunately, this is all too real in a strange understanding of feminism and the like and something one sees quite often.The most striking point is surely Russell’s accusation of sexual assault. Without any doubt, the way the female characters in the novel act is not only convincing, but seems totally authentic. Putting unrelated aspects in a certain context, interpreting them along one single line of interpretation and thus narrating a coherent story that fits well in the world view one has – this can destroy a perfectly innocent life. When you read what happens to the professor, you cannot believe it, yet, you see how the mechanisms work and how Russell cannot do anything about it. I am sure some reader might find “Campusland” offensive, yet, in my opinion, the way the author satirizes and exaggerates is necessary to put straight some positions that somehow went a bit too far or have taken questionable developments. For me, it was a fantastic read and I would surely say that this is one of the most relevant literary contributions to a lot of current discussions – and, on top, it is wonderfully narrated.
2977354771	3.5 starsMy sister works at Harvard as one of their librarians so any time I see a book about an ivy league college, I find myself drawn to it.The summary of this book promised to include all the things that I find captivating about ivy league schools…..elitism and rich people problems. I couldn’t pass on this one because I was too drawn to the idea of it.This is a book that I wouldn’t normally pick up in the store or really be drawn to if I’m being honest, but I liked the summary and the fact that this author is also a Yale alum. This is Scott Johnston’s first novel his having attended Yale, I think indicates he has first hand knowledge and even more authenticity to add to a book like this and made me eager to check it out.This book had a lot of humorous moments and I often found myself laughing out loud at some of the over the top satire in this one. When I picked this one up, I wasn’t entirely sure what I was going to get, but was pleasantly surprised by the humor I found in the pages of this one.As expected, this author writes with authority on the subject of campus life and doesn’t shy away from tackling big hot button issues like racism, elitism, and even more serious things like sexual assault accusations. This book has a little something for everyone who likes taking a look at some of America’s most elite campus culture.While this was a book that I would normally not pick up and read, I was glad that I did. There was a lot of issues addresses and often sharply examined with a satirical eye. Sometimes it read a little slow, but overall it was an easy read that gave a unique look at a fascinating subject.I noticed that one reviewer felt this book captured serious campus issues but the writing makes this a hysterical novel and I completely agree. This book is funny—hilarious even in parts—but the subjects the book tackles are anything but funny. I think that’s what makes this book unique. You can read about and think about those serious issues but at the same time find escapism and humor in the writing.See my full review here
2919931522	In CAMPUSLAND, by Scott Johnston, a professor looking for tenure and stability, the president of Devon college, and a new student who thrives on attention wherever she can get it, along with so many other colorful characters, trudge through the ups and downs of a year at Devon College(an almost Ivy League school dripping with money and privilege). College life of yesteryear clashes with the digital/social media age where acknowledgement and recognition can often conquer rational thought. As I read the book, I really enjoyed laughing along with the conventions and situations that Johnston put the characters in. As if a spell was cast that the reader doesn't see coming, the book transitions into challenging the old and new collegiate educational conventions and creates several scenarios that walk the line of right and wrong, which leaves the reader to create their own perception. Johnston makes it clear the truth of the events by writing them with special attention and with care for all of the details. Then when of the factions of righteousness become involved the real fun begins by watching how much those groups try to change the motives and perceptions of each event. The most rewarding part of the book though is seeing how everyone ended up and how this year at Devon for some many people made them grow and become better people. Full of laughter, both outright and subtle, and a constant challenging of what college life was, is, and maybe should be, CAMPUSLAND left me smiling and inspired to take a deeper look at perception vs reality and how it affects my daily life. Thank you to St. Martin's Press, Scott Johnston, and Netgalley for a copy of the book in exchange for an honest review!
2942490646	I loved this book! I have no idea how it got published in today's political climate, but I appreciate the author's authenticy in presenting the extremes to which our society (specifically our college campuses) have gone in the quest for racial and gender equality. Equality is important, and should be fought for. But in our social media-driven society, where most people have cameras on their iPhones and everyone is looking for their fifteen minutes of fame, the fight for equality can easily become a selfish pursuit. In Campusland, the author paints a vivid picture of the fictional Devon University, from the various campus interest groups who spend most of the book competing with one another for a piece of the action (and money), to the University President, who just wants everyone to like him. Devon could easily be any Ivy League university. I especially loved the protagonist, Ephraim, the hapless professor from Alabama who yearned to break free of his conservative southern roots, only to discover that the grass isn't always greener on the other side. This book held my attention, made me laugh-out-loud, and I cheer when Ephraim finally finds his voice. Highly recommend! **Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for the ARC in exchange for an honest review.
3061891410	Warning. If you are not the type who enjoys laughing hysterically out loud, then avoid this book. Campusland by Scott Johnston is absolutely hilarious, one of the funniest books I have read in many years. The ARC, courtesy of NetGalley and MacMillan Publishers and in exchange for an honest review is a hoot.. The book follows the adventures of a young, untenured English professor Eph Russell at a beleaguered Ivy League college populated with trust fund brats, campus radicals and would-be radicals, a social climbing wanna be model, militant feminists, a clueless Dean who believes money CAN solve everything and committee upon committee for self righteous and politically correct ideas. No sacred cow is left unmilked or unskewered when Russell's classroom discussions of Mark Twain garners the attention of the various campus factions, ultimately resulting in a riotous climax of epic proportions (including a 12' foot tall penis and matching vagina). Original, funny and highly recommended.
2755335498	Campusland started slowly for me, but overall I enjoyed it. I appreciated the satire and descriptive language, but socially/politically, there were some things I found concerning. Most of the “characters” were caricatures more than fully fleshed out characters, which is unsurprising for a satire, but I would’ve liked to see more of characters motivations, even if that meant focusing on fewer characters. Additionally, the disparity between the treatment and portrayal of Conservative characters compared to Liberal ones, made it read more like propaganda than satire at times. SPOILERS BELOWEven understanding that Lulu is a sociopath, I was bothered by the idea that someone would create large scale performance art based on fake rape allegations, and equally bothered by the portrayal of the other people involved in the protest.
2950625063	If this book had been written in the 60s or 70s, it could have been the novelization of a campus-based slapstick movie but instead, as it is written today, it’s a satire that is almost too true to be funny. A young tenure-eligible professor finds himself innocently charged as a sexual predator and is almost destroyed by the Title IX rules for adjudicating such cases that existed until just recently. At his hearing, he must appear alone without counsel, cannot question or even know who his accuser is and has absolutely no due process. How he gets in that predicament is the bulk of the story and a lesson on campus policy these days.
3019078203	Read in one sitting. Have never done that before. LOVED this book. Definitely provocative, though. Would make a great book club selection as everyone will have a different reaction. Have never reviewed a book here before but Campusland was such a great experience that I felt compelled to.Run, don't walk, to read this book.
2750223596	A great read that conjures up more than a few memories; will be an even better read each year going forward that I get further and further away from my own "campusland" experience.
2834742403	First and foremost, I want to say kudos to Scott Johnston for writing a witty and funny satire about how overly sensitive kids have become in today's society. (Warning - if you are one of them, you will not like my review, so politely move on.)I am a proud graduate of the University of Tennessee. Am I Ivy League? No. Can I run circles around many who are attending Ivy Leagues schools today? You bet your damn ass I can. Why? Because I learned how to wipe my own ass and not complain about the type of toilet paper I have to use or ask my butler how to do it. Much unlike the entitled brats this book highlights. I learned how to work hard for money and not expect a huge payday because I posted some dumb duck face photo on a social media site. The storyline and writing in this book is really 4 stars. I gave it 3 stars because of how much I wanted to pull my hair out over the topics addressed. We have "triggers" now for classes so they can be "safe" environments? You have got to be kidding me. Don't become an English major if your skin is too sensitive to read Huck Finn or The Great Gatsby. Just like you don't walk into a bar if you are too offended to see a person drink alcohol. Do they need a "trigger warning" outside the bar? Warning - you may or may not see alcohol consumed, enter at your own risk. Now, you may read that and say, "Lindsey, don't you think you are being overly dramatic?" Well, yes I am. And that is exactly the overly inflated point Johnston is making in this book. Instead of focusing on what could be a world class education, these kids are jumping from social issue to issue depending on what floats their boat in the moment. Not truly putting any serious creed behind trying to make a change or even making a valid point. Gandhi said, "Be the change you would like to see in the world". Instead of being the change, kids are trying to see how big of a change they can make in the number of followers on their social media accounts (as if that means anything). The scary point this book raises is how easy it is for someone to cry wolf and potentially ruin a person's career, all for their own gain in socialite class ranking. It's sick and takes away from those who have truly been assaulted. Yet, we all know this is happening and no one has the courage to come out and say it. Johnston sure did!! Now I get this is a work of fiction. However, everything Johnston is making fun of is very evident in the younger generations and in society today. Did I laugh while reading this book? Absolutely. Is it witty and funny? Absolutely. Does it poke fun at our current political environment? You bet. Should you read this book if you are easily offended, have thin skin or believe everything needs to be "politically correct"? No way. My thanks to Scott Johnston, St. Martin's Press and Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
2896813291	I thoroughly enjoyed reading this. At times it was hilarious: the interactions between Eph and Martika, the Fellinghams, the Betas with some of their Animal House antics. I feel like this book would make for a great book club discussion and result in a lot of heated arguments about the actions and mindset of Red and the PSA along with some of the other campus groups. Is the reader supposed to sympathize with them or be frustrated with their methods to seek change? I know from the Afterword that this was meant to be satire, but I wonder how many of the characters and campus interactions were modeled on real life people and situations. This book is definitely a great example of how college life has evolved over the years especially in light of an ever expanding technological age where every student seems to have a laptop, a smartphone, and some form of social media readily available. I thought it was interesting (maybe even odd) that the author created a fictitious town (Ashley, Alabama) to tell about the history of a real life town (Enterprise, Alabama). There were also a couple of overlooked errors by the author, editor, and/or publisher - I emailed the publisher about the specific instances in the hopes that it can be corrected in the event of future editions.
2991332106	Campusland is a satirical look at the culture of elite colleges...and well...probably many colleges. The cast of characters includes a professor with Alabama roots who becomes the target of racist accusations and sexual assault, a diversity chairperson with an agenda, an Animal House like frat, a president more concerned with fundraising than the well being of the college, a spoiled social media star out to create her person brand, a trust fund campus radical obsessed with championing 'causes'.This story tells a warning tale of what happens when one side takes their narrative and agenda too far. Safe spaces and freedom of speech are great. But they have to go both ways. Feminism and gender equality is admirable, but not at the exclusion of those who aren't completely on board. Of course diversity is valued, but it comes in more ways than just people of color.This book is definitely not for everyone, as a certain segment of the population (the more progressive of nature) will likely not be quite as amused as I was.
2910792238	I tried to read the entirety of this book. I generally adore books set at in a school-setting, whether that is college, high school or boarding school. I find them to be nostalgic for me at this point. Campusland was meant to be satire about the degree to which college (especially elite universities) are considering themselves "safe spaces" for free speech and winds up just being ill-informed propaganda. This book is basically tone-deaf to the social injustices that our young people are trying to sort out. Its one thing to actually be funny in dealing with these topics, it is another thing entirely when you miss this mark and are just mean-spirited and hateful. I would guess that most young people would be uncomfortable reading this book aloud to their peers. I honestly feel sorry for the copy editor that had to read this multiple times.#Campusland #NetGalley #StMartinsPress
2889706235	This is a satirical novel that really hits the social issues nail on the head in the most exaggerated way. Eph is a college professor getting ready for tenure and hiding the fact that he is from a very right winged, rural Alabama while teaching at a university that is very, very leftist. When he becomes the target of a couple different “movements” initiated by some overly forward thinking students, his position for tenure is placed at risk. Meanwhile, student, Lulu is looking to make a name for herself, and Professor Eph seems like the one that just may be able to give her that lift. From environmentalism, to racial discrimination, to genderism, and ageists, this novel really touches on current issues at a eyebrow raising, head shaking new level. Definitely one to pick up to get a good chuckle out of, and put reality into a bit of perspective.
2951672905	Johnston has written a great piece of satire featuring an eclectic cast of characters. I loved Eph and D'Arcy who were probably the only "normal" people in the book. The students portrayed today's snowflakes who seem to feel they are entitled to anything and everything and the idea of going to college to learn anything seems to be a foreign concept to them. The administrators alternate between fear of the students, wanting to be their best friends, throwing unheard amounts of money to any group who protests and generally lacking backbone in any situation.My college days are long gone and were nothing like the ones portrayed in Campusland but sadly, I fear this book is closer to the truth than many of us realize. The book was well-written and the story was well-developed. I'd recommend for anyone who loves satire - or for any parents sending their little darlings off to college.
2929002113	College has changed a lot since I graduated. Johnston has written a genuinely funny novel about a university in this time of political correctness and political conflict. Devon University is a hotbed of all things college. There are sharply written characters representing all of the worst impulses of this environment and a topical Me-too incident that pulls it all together. Eph, a professor hoping for tenure, and Lulu, a young woman who wants to be popular and well known, are on a collision course - you will see the train wreck coming- but there are a few surprises. Red, who leads the agitators and Milton, the President of the University sort of deserve one another. So much about this will have you either nodding in recognition or shaking your head and tut-tutting but it will also make you laugh. Thanks to the publisher for the ARC. Highly entertaining.
2943832214	This political satire on the changing college culture shows the competitive atmosphere and warring factions at an prestigious Ivy League college. Eph Russell, a professor from Alabama, seems to be a perfect fit until he becomes a target of the campus monarchists and a devious woman. I found him to be impossibly naive. The characters were so exaggerated that they weren't relatable. The story was complex and thought provoking. I felt that Devon University is where education is sacrificed to advance ambitions. Lulu is the perfect example. Scott Johnston has addressed current issues head on with wit and humor. I received a copy of this book which I voluntarily read and reviewed. My comments are my honest opinion.
2961144017	When I started reading Campusland I really didn’t know where this story was going. We have a treasure trove of widely varied characters. From the rich, privileged Lulu Harris, to the small town professor,Eph, who has gone big time in taking a professorship at Devon University. Devon University is an elite level university that prides itself in its progressive, inclusive students and policies. For Eph, this academic school year quickly becomes pained by a litany of trumped up accusations that leave him fighting for his job survival. This story is both funny and infuriating. A genuine pleasure to read. Novel supplied by Netgalley.
2892157137	Edit: Heard this great quote attributed to Terry Pratchett that sums up my feelings about this book. “Satire is meant to ridicule power. If you’re laughing at people who are hurting, it’s not satire, it’s bullying.”Received an ARC via NetGalley. I thought satire was supposed to be funny?I’m usually a fan of satire. But this was tedious and dull. Nothing really happened except a bunch of unlikable characters doing unlikable things. I guess the message here is everyone is too sensitive and it’s all really hard on white men? Because that was my takeaway.
2786098264	Campusland (perfect title) is an hilarious send-up of the P. C. culture that has taken over most college campuses. It is a fast, enjoyable read--just right for a the read as Labor Day approaches. The writing is tight and entertaining and deserves comparisons with such masters as Evelyn Waugh. Hopefully, this novel will "take" and move the current discussion about the state of academia in the right direction.
2918645043	I won this book through an online promotion and thoroughly enjoyed it. It's a sharp and funny satire skewering the over-the-top culture of political correctness on college campuses. It is well-written, fast moving and provides a fresh and irreverent look at college life today.
3012526955	A hilarious and devastating jab at academia and our liberal ideology poised to consume itself. Great writing, great insight. A topical timepiece, but a definite dime piece.
2978743485	Loved this book. Satirical and yet not. Great commentary on today’s world.
2755050267	I loved Campusland by Scott Johnston. It is a very funny satire which had me shaking my head at some points. The characters are well written and offer a variety of viewpoints.
3144495036	What a weak excuse for a satire. At first it felt like this book was an equal skewering of the college elite: the simpering president, the white dreadlocked "woke" kid, the socialite stuck in 8am classes, the shitty fraternity bros, the endless clubs and committees, etc, etc. Unfortunately, the clueless, idealistic, old-fashioned English professor turned out to be our familiar lens through which we saw this world of privelege and insanity, rather than another broad caricature.Ephraim is an absolute fool, and not anyone I could relate to. He refuses to accept the idea that the "great" authors of 19th century American lit are only great because professors in universities refuse to add anything new to the curriculum. Huckleberry Finn in a 200 level college class seems a little babyish, but I can accept Mark Twain as an acceptable topic of discussion way more easily than I can accept the idea that a professor of English is completely obtuse when it comes to whether or not a single person of color ever published a book before 1900. When a committee brings him up on charges of racism, a purposefully obscure slave memoir is brought up as an example of one of the books he could have used on his syllabus but didn't. He's vindicated in the reader's eyes for not having used this book by asking his black girlfriend if she had ever heard of it and being satisfied when she says no. But does that mean we're supposing a world where Harriett Tubman and Frederick Douglas didn't publish books? Where 12 Years a Slave doesn't exist? Where the dozens of other fictional novels published by black, Asian, and native American authors aren't real? Because those books DO exist, and we're supposed to be on Ephraim's side in the fight to keep on hammering home the same boring ass points about Mark Twain and Louisa May Alcott rather than diversifying the curriculum. Meanwhile, the entire campus appears to be crawling with evil, man-hating feminists. Women who want to falsely accuse good men of assualt. Women who won't listen to other women when they want privacy, and stick cameras in their faces to document their injuries, even when asked not to. Women who scheme and collude to destroy men's lives when they have no evidence of wrong doing or reason to believe that a man is bad, beyond a feeling that he's kind of a dick. And when a despicable campus-wide of revenge porn happens, the female subject of it is such a "whore" that she doesn't even bat an eye at the giant screen displaying her naked body (except to be embarrassed that the student body knows she had sex with an ugly guy). But at least the author got to skewer the idea of dumb feminists believing that slut shaming is bad, amiright?Well, there was one woman who was good. One woman who was so stupidly good and decent and subservient that Ephraim got through his terrible ordeal. His (token) black girlfriend, D'arcy gently tries to correct this dumb, entitled man by reminding him that he doesn't know what it's like to be a black person and he can't really say whether hearing the n-word in the context of an old book should be upsetting or not. When his response is to be sarcastically dismissive and remind her that, as a skinny, nerdy white boy growing up in the football-obsessed deep South, his understanding of discrimination is deeper than hers (since she may be black, but she grew up middle class in New Jersey, so I guess she has no right to complain?), she quietly concedes his point and continues to stand by him. He's a dick! But he's a dick with a black girlfriend, so how could he possibly be racist, right?????There is a strange rewriting of history for Ephraim at the end of this book where he says that he really tried to understand the way life worked for the coastal elite, but he didn't! That wasn't shown to us at all. He was annoyed and frustrated at anything that felt foreign to him and his perspective. He Googles the gender identity a colleague uses and is annoyed that there seem to be overlaps in the varied options he finds on the internet, rather than simply accepting her at face value and moving on. He thinks that the fact he presents about the lack of non-white authors in the American 19th century is more important than how a student feels about that. He thinks that his discomfort with using a "grammatically incorrect" pronoun (they) to describe a colleague should trump the discomfort that colleague feels in being misidentified. He even gets annoyed that the pho his girlfriend takes him out for is a dish that can't be "eaten gracefully" and pouts his way through dinner. There is a more interesting story here about a man whose sexism, racism, and bigotry were never noticed in the deep South, where he stood out like a sore thumb as the lone progressive. A person who sees more of the world and realizes he never truly understood how much he didn't know that he didn't know. Instead, Ephraim learns nothing, has absolutely no growth, and ends the journey comfortably back in a world where Mark Twain is king, no new perspectives need ever be explored, and a lady isn't gonna act like a dumb bitch and will just say thank you for having a door opened for her, God damnit.The author went to an elite University 40 years ago and feels that college life has gotten out of hand in terms of safe spaces, trigger warnings, and the catering to of every single view point under the sun. But in attempting to mock the idea that we've gotten so far off course from what really matters in academia (which I guess is Shakespeare and having sex with women without fear of repercussions), he just underlined why it is that so many people are out here looking for new voices and new perspectives. This one stinks. Oh, kind of like the big stinky fart that the evil Dean lets out during the Title IX hearing! Because she's a dumb woman, get it? Satire!
2827056924	Scott Johnston's Campusland is a satirical look at a prestigious university (just under Harvard) over the the course of one year. Readers are following a few different storylines that weave in and out together before all coming together for the climax.At it's core, Campusland is looking to how colleges deal with students today—more like how students deal with colleges. These students are dictating how a university is being run through the use of social media and "PC" culture: triggering “content” warnings, lack of inclusivity and diversity. Baby boomers that are in positions of power at the school whether it being a dean, chairperson, or an investor, are being told how to run their school by millennials and Generation Z. And because it's all being done using satire, everything is so incredibly exaggerated and hilarious. However, when you look at Twitter or other social media sites, this is exactly what's happening. My favorite scene was when all of the different groups—LGBTQ, Asian, Feminist, Latinx, ect.—all came together wanting to take a scheduled scandal and try to turn it around on themselves. It was all so ridiculous, but true in a very heightened way. I really did enjoy this. It's definitely not for everybody, but very entertaining. There were very short chapters that made the book fly by very quickly. My one critique probably would be that I wish we had a perspective from D'arcy, Professor Eph Russell's girlfriend. She was kind of just forgotten at the end of the novel and I think her point-of-view would have been a great addition—her thoughts and feelings as being a black women, the girlfriend of an accused predator, and the dean's assistant. ARC was provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
2814093266	Received ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.This novel immediately reminded me of Jane Smiley's 1995 novel "Moo," which I read many years ago and is a satirical look at university life, albeit in a college known for having a huge agriculture program. Also a bit of Neal Stephenson's "The Big U."From the get go, when you find out that the school has decided to stop calling new students "freshmen" and is opting for "first years" in order to be more inclusive and the college's Wikipedia entry has been vandalized (for the nth time), you kind of get an idea where this is going.As a college professor, I found it pretty funny, but I guess some people might lack the sense of humor needed. On the other hand, if you're one of those "Colleges brainwash kids to be liberals" folks, this probably isn't up your alley. (Not that I expect many of those to actually read books for pleasure, excuse my bias).In the current "life-is-more-absurd-than-fiction-multiplied-ten-times" climate, the situations in this book are exaggerated for comedic effect, but not by much. I mean, things that 10 years ago would have been straight out of the Simpsons or the Onion, seem to happen on a daily basis.I'd recommend it to anyone who has a sense of humor, has worked in academia, is a college student, or the parent of one.
2893639453	The Blurb:Scott Johnston's Campusland is a laugh-out-loud first novel about one year of insanity at the Ivy-like Devon University, a blissful bubble of elite students My Take:I enjoyed this witty, satirical book! A look at cliques, haves and have nots, fraternities, and most of all the power of Social Media. Lulu Harris does not want to be at Devon. She wants to be the next Kim Kardashian and have millions of followers and get paid to party. Lulu's father is an alumnus and is rich. Really rich. Her mother left long ago and Lulu has no contact with her. This girl is sneaky, conniving and opportunistic. In her quest to be the new IT girl, she will leave a wake of ruined lives in her wake.Eph teaches 19th Century Lit and is hoping for tenure soon. A small town Alabama boy, he is above reproach until Lulu sets her sites on him with her plan to make him look like he assaulted her. Nothing personal, she is simply a media addict. And it works for a bit. And then the fringe groups get together for a little show and tell the truth about Lulu and that was laugh out loud funny!A very timely story that will strike a chord with anyone on social media!NetGalley/ August 13th, 2019 by St. Martin's Press
3134680425	I'm not familiar with current U.S. college situations, I'm absolutely not the target for this book.Set in a college representing Yale, we have our students fighting for more diversity in their English class (but doing so with false evidence), "feminist" groups that actually don't represent what feminism is, a framed rape just for the sake of becoming socially relevant, and overall a Conservative Propaganda all over the place. Almost every accusation goes towards Eph (the English professor) who's being set as a racist rapist, when he is not.This take on the situations made it feel like the author was somehow justifying racism, patriarchy, and even rapes, like somehow everyone fighting for equality are wrong... This is supposed to be a satire, in which I didn't laugh at all. There's a thin line between joking about something politically incorrect, and plainly stating you're against it all. The moral of this story is to go back to the old ways and be better off like that...I basically finished reading it so I could give it its 1 star and lower its rating, that's how much I disliked it.
2859455256	4*I know this was meant to be a satire. And laugh out loud funny. But I didn't quite see it that way but enjoyed it just the same.This book tells the story of an untenured university professor. With side stories of a social climber, a rich entitled activist and a university president. Each of which effect poor Eph. He's a good guy. A well loved professor, at least until stuff starts to happen, thanks to the other characters.Both the climber, Lulu, and the activist, Red, have their plans that try to take down Eph. And the president doesn't know how to deal with the problems so he throws the university's money at the problem caused by these brats instead of actually solving the problem. The way I see the book, it shows the unfortunate side of today's society of not wanting to take personal responsibility for for anything. It must be the other guy's fault because it certainly is not mine. The poor professor is at the butt end of the issues. Will he come through it or not? Hopefully. As well as the fact of how hard it is to be politically correct.
2894615393	Campusland made me laugh. It gave me pause and cringe as I recognized the truth behind the absurd. Scott Johnson’s satirical debut novel is a quick, smart, and entertaining read with teeth. The characters are predictably hyperbolic, but the situations they create remained with me long after I put down the book. Each character and most of the plotlines held a kernel of truth which was disturbing, eye-opening, and worthy of contemplation, particularly as I prepare to send my children off to college soon. I admired Johnson’s grip on the English language. He made me realize how out-of-touch I am with the Woke vernacular and introduced me to several rare and beautiful words. Bravo, Mr. Johnson – you are an inspiration for others to fan the flames of their passions and pursue second, third, and fourth careers. Thank you to NetGalley for an ARC of Campusland in exchange for a candid review. And, band for introducing me to Scott Johnson, who is an inspiration for anyone who believes in pursuing their passions.
2702445191	Campusland is a sarcastic view of modern college life based around professor, Ephraim Russell. Eph is reaching for tenure, but gets caught up first in a racial scandal, and then a sexual scandal, without any wrong doing on his part. As he tries to clear his name, we get a behind of the scenes look at interworking of the administration featuring Devon University President, Milton Strauss, along with the various board members and large donors that steer the college. Also in the mix, Lulu Harris, first-year (freshman) striving to be the next Manhattan It-Girl, and willing to do anything it takes to reach her goals. The result is a riot of an ending.For a debut novel, this was inspiring and humorous. As I was laughing at the antics, it was also thought provoking and jaw-dropping at points in the controversies and scenerios discussed. Current and realistic, the format of mixing the news articles in with the story made it easy to read and entertaining.I received an advanced copy. All opinions are honest and mine.
3065791002	Very humorous with jealous rivals from British-type to women's rights groups while an English professor struggling with a baseless investigation conducted by a power-hungry dean of diversity and inclusion with a weak college president who is afraid of the dean all throughout the satire novel about college life.I have contempt for Lulu Harris because she did not follow the rule of not falling in love with a professor and making him a victim of baseless lies told by Lulu. Thank God she realized that she was always taking advantage of the college by playing "victim" all the time!Good reading with some laughs. :-) :-)Grade: A-
3044855334	What a surprisingly great book! I checked it out knowing nothing about it ( just published this year) or about the author & found myself thoroughly into it after a couple of chapters. The setting is an elite university in New England that has been the top of the top for decades...until all hell breaks loose in all kinds of ways. There are problems with diversity awareness, gender recognition (or the lack of that), sexual assault ( or was it?)....Quite a book that I would certainly recommend to anyone looking for something really different to read!
3367455405	If you want a Boomer book I have found it. It makes jokes about out of being pc and the fact that people want racial inclusion in academics. The writing is incredibly bland. It’s funny because Johnston is like the students could not be more engaged and I couldn’t be more bored. This book came out during August of 2019 and during June of 2020 it could not sound more tone deaf to our current political turmoil.
3006302482	I highly recommend this book, even if you didn't go to college it is an entertaining and inspired view of life in a college town, the characters Eph and D'arcy were very fun and well written and the plot was great!
3145251677	This is racist, sexist fear-based tedium masquerading as satire. Ridiculous plot and boring self-centered characters. The ending is torture. Save your time and money.
3018845959	I finished this book because I was curious about the ending. In general, it was much too cynical for me. Even the main character was not especially likeable.
3017463233	Just don’t bother.
2911944363	“Campusland” was not what I expected at all, and when reading the summary again once I finished reading it, I can see how I was mid-led, or how I misunderstood, or even misinterpreted. Though it was funny, it was definitely more of an intellectual satirical type of humor, and one that I was not expecting.I can’t help but describe this book as something you would expect from a Saturday Night Live (long) episode; spot-on yet humorous jabs at current controversial topics; causing cringes, chuckles and critique. I am impressed with the language, the style, the satire, and, of course, the unforgettable quirky characters. I struggled with the rating to give, and still question my final decision. There is so much I appreciate and applaud, but still falls short for me to give a higher rating. Yet it was a memorable read, and is a book I think I will discuss with others, so maybe that alone should bump it higher?
3044964718	Campusland by Scott Johnson checks all the stereotypes of elite university life. Put together, it creates an extreme picture that might make you say that it could not happen. Except that some of it does. The events can individually be found on many a campus. The author creates a cohesive story out of a composite of reality in a way that is entertaining and funny while at the same time a serious commentary on the state of our eduction system. Read my complete review at http://www.memoriesfrombooks.com/2020... Reviewed for NetGalley.
3207692036	More a satire and a stinging social commentary of liberal academia than a serious piece of literature. Breezy at times, and occasionally humorous. The problem with this book is that the ridiculousness of safe spaces, mock angst, and the watering down of serious academics in the name of "diversity and inclusion" it too real to be funny. As those with agendas destroy the lives of students, the careers of professors and prestige of an institution, I found myself more angry than entertained.
7866041959	DNF and breaking my no rating if I haven’t finished it rule because this book is horrifically offensive to the point that I just can’t read it right now. God what a fucking horrible book. It’s just casually racist in ways that the positive reviewers heralding this book as “genius satire” aren’t even picking up on. I know what satire is and this isn’t it. It’s just plain offensive. Started reading it because I hoped it would be bad in a funny way and nope. Not funny. Not doing it.
3731014414	Campusland was a hilarious satire of the modern college campus. As somebody who attended McGill for undergrad, a good bit of it resonated with me. However, Johnston's book is too over-the-top and lacks any subtlety. Maybe that helps explain why it's so funny, but it reads like what Tucker Carlson thinks every campus is like.
