5665427893	3.5 because I'm intrigued by the magic system and secret societies.I do not recommend this if you're a character-driven reader, and also I would like fourth wall breaking superpowers so I can step in the book and strangle the FMC a good 50% of the time, thank you.
6063106407	4.35! “There is a scholar on these shores who breathes stories. He inhales all manner of them, holds each one in his soul, and when his lungs are too full of words, he exhales at last, daring to breathe his own stories to life. Thus he breathes in words and breathes more out, in and out and in again like the measured rhythm of the sea, until one day he finds a peculiar book that sets even the tides off their fated course.” The writing style was amazing. Literally so immersive and oh my god the world building was so enhanced, I fell in love with the world too easily not to mention how in depth the magic system was like the author really outdid herself. Now i'm not gonna lie but i have to say that this book was super slow. I liked the pacing because it went perfectly with my busy schedule but I wouldve enjoyed it less if i read it without anything occupying my time.The characters were really well written too and in depth as well. I liked how the twists were revolving around them and how they shaped the plots. They were some aspects in them that i found frustrating but it was truly a joy to read about them. It was well balanced between the plot i'd say because the characters were there and they made the book a little light and brought emotions into it but it was mostly plot driven and i did not mind that factor because it was crafted brilliantly.The romance. im still confused on this. It was there but it wasn't clear i was very confused. Hopefully we get a better insight on this part of the book.__A pretty cover and Lunar magic?? sign me up...
5911726056	The vibes were immaculate and the magic system is one of my favourites but unfortunately the characters fell flat for me, I guessed the twist from early on so it made the reading experience predictable for me.Quite a few things were repeated but presented as if it was new information which irked meIt was also very long and nothing really happens until the last 100 pages, unfortunately I’m not intrigued enough to continue the series
6244340603	4.75!Oh my goodness I stayed up way too late to finish this. Though slow paced it is super fun to read especially with how well written it is and how exquisite and complex the magic system is. The plot gripped me in enough and the characters all flawed had such depth that I found myself falling for them and the sense of mystery was another thing that I appreciated. I can't wait for the sequel to see how the events unfold.
7770201138	« It’s always the quietest minds that hide the worst sort of violence. »Dark academia mixed with mysteries - sprinkle eerie setting & creepy vibes and you have a masterpiece. « Because this book is magic. It’s like a portal, you see. It lets you step into other worlds and exist there for a time. »The magic system was THE MOST unique I’ve read so far this year. The magic inherited is linked with the lunar cycle. I was so hooked on this magic system I kept thinking about it even when I wasn’t reading. « He needed the people around him to stop leaving. »This book is multi layered, the plots are absolutely brilliant. I don’t normally like cults in my books but this was very well handled. « She was the sea, moving in an out of his life, between this world and the next. But what was the sea if it had no shore to return to? »We follow a vast set of characters but the POV of Bas & Emory. Bas had massive character development in this one - whereas Emory was vulnerable for the vast majority. Which all comes down to say we don’t move at the same pace. I personally didn’t like Keiran upon meeting him and so sometimes, Emory’s POV were hard to get through but the mystery pulled me through. What’s a bit out of character for me is I couldn’t pinpoint what was making me despise Keiran so much. Call it gut feeling! There’s only one twist I saw coming, and the others BLEW ME AWAY. I actually had chills & cried at some point because it was just THAT GOOD. I really can’t wait to get to the second book! I highly recommend it. This one will sit with me for a while.From the acknowledgment; « I wrote it looking back at my early twenties, a time that feels like a crossroads between who you are and who you want to be. I lost sight of who I was then, and writing this was a bit like finding my old self again. » ❤️‍🩹—-• preread/readingOnly 100 pages in (on a total of 530) but I can tell this is going to be a winner for me
7847570005	|🖤| post~read |🌊|this was absolutely incredible. The writing style, the world building, the characters. It was one of most well written books I’ve ever read, and the setting and descriptions were perfect. The only thing wrong with it to me it that the first half of it was extremely slow and it was kind of hard to get intortc |🌊| pre~read |🖤|I’m literally so excited to read this! I’ve seen some bad reviews so im trying to go in with low expectations but omg this looks so good. Dark academia books will forever be my favorite thing to exist, and I’ve heard it’s similar to a study in drowning which I absolutely loved, plus it seems so perfect for November, so yeah I think I’ll love it! Also the cover is absolutely gorgeous
5820327488	*WARNING! - This is a negative review. Like, really, negative. Like, when I'm stopped at the gates of hell, they’re pulling this out as evidence. First of all, whoever wrote “Ninth House meets A Deadly Education in this gorgeous dark academia fantasy following a teen mage who must unravel the truth behind the secret society that may have been involved in her classmates’ deaths.” into the blurb needs to be taken outside and shot. As those are two very beloved reads, I skipped my happy ass down to the bookstore on release date and purchased this book. I OWN THE EBOOK AND THE AUDIOBOOK as well, that’s how confident I was. Well, stupid is a disease and I’m suffering from it because this was dogwater. I should have known. It doesn’t make sense to expect topics that inherently belong in adult fiction to condense well in YA. The right idea, the wrong bitch.Emory. Emory. Emory. What did I do wrong in my past life to be punished with her point of view? And don’t start, because clearly, Lacelle can write compelling characters (BAZ) so why were we stuck with EMORY. One of the most annoying, whiney, bitchy FMC I have ever had the displeasure of reading. I know, I know, she’s like a teen, and she like just suffered the horrible loss of her best friends, BUT THAT WAS BAZ’S WHOLE SISTER BITCH. She insisted on playing the “but I suffered MORE” game the entire book. Girl. Get a grip. Bless Baz and his patience, because all Emory proved to me was that the wrong twin took the forever swim.I also didn’t like how she was constantly narrating her own romantic interactions? Instead of describing her own emotions and reactions to things that are happening to her, we get weird out-of-body descriptions of how the other person is feeling? EX: “She didn’t miss the way that he tracked a shaft of her unbound hair as it fell forward on her bear shoulder, shimmering golden in the candlelight. His hand twitched as if he yearned to run his fingers through it.“ Like adding the “as if” made it her own original thought. Also who the fuck talks about their own hair like that? Very much Y/N and I was gagging. I can excuse girl bossing, but she was just fucking pathetic. Now, I won’t lie, I read until exactly 50% and then skipped to part 4 (that’s 84%, don’t say anything, this book is 530 fucking pages) because I had a feeling I knew how the ??plot twist?? was going to go. This shit was predictable as fuck. Where was the mystery I was promised?? The murder?? The secret society?? Let me tell you, the secret society was like 7 dudes wearing towels on their heads and brandishing driftwood (not really). Lastly, the world-building. Lacelle wrote THE FUCK out of the magic system. But sometimes, less is more. As in, less time spent coming up with the 47 different names for all the magic, and more time spent on… well, the plot.
6163510283	4.7 starsThis book was so slowly paced but it read so good. The writing was so exquisite and i believe Pascale will be etched into my auto-buy authors. the world she built weaved with lunar magic and the depths of Baz and Emory that were explored and the betrayals and twists were something that kept me intrigued throughout the book.
7779748091	Beautifully written. A love letter to the art of detailed whimsical prose. Sometimes all I want to do is read about things on a level where the imagery has me swooning and living in different worlds ✍️. Some pacing flaws and repetition, but the magic system with its metaphorical characters had me in awe 😍.
5843028198	I started off thinking that this was another entry of ‘books that did not achieve the potential of their parts’, and honestly I maintained that opinion throughout most of the book but I definitely saw the vision by the end. The first 70% of this was a 3 star read with the last 30% or so being a 4 star ending. I feel happy settling on 3.5 stars (rounded down for exposing me to another main character who makes me want to commit violence). This book features an interesting magic system based on lunar cycles of the moon which I found to be fairly unique. I know that this is marketed as being dark academia, but in my opinion it’s really more dark academia adjacent given the heavy presence of secret societies in the plot and its setting in a college. However, the actual classes and academy itself doesn’t really play a major role in the plot. The actual writing craft of this book is pretty well polished and I have no complaints about the pacing or dialogue. Every now and again I would get glimmers of being sucked into this world but inevitably something would happen that would make me roll my eyes and pull me out of it. I’ll be honest, I found Bas’s POVs to be significantly more pleasant to inhabit and his storyline more interesting. Unfortunately, finding Emory to be a pretty insufferable character ruined my time with her and her story. Emory is cut from the cloth that a lot of female YA protagonists are- it’s giving Bella swan. Emory is also meant to be 19 but read significantly younger and kind of felt like it’s included just to allow for a very mild sex scene. It became tedious with how often she refers to herself as mediocre or plain or a wallflower or reserved or shy and yet somehow we are meant to believe that she has all these love interests following her around? Emory also presented with this kind of immature victim mentality and rampant insecurities causing a doozy of an inferiority complex of her own abilities and for her to be jealous and covetous of other people’s powers, which I did not enjoy at all. Emory also did that thing, which I’m coming to realise is a cardinal sin of character work for me, where she emotionally manipulates, hassles and cajoles a more experienced character into helping her AND THEN IMMEDIATELY starts complaining about how they help and starts trying to push the boundaries to get her way. Absolutely Infuriating. Also the way that Emory just intentionally engaged in emotional manipulation and leading Bas on just gave me the biggest ick and was pretty irredeemable for a character. If you can’t tell by my little rant she was just TRULY THE WORST and I hope she wakes up to soggy socks every morning. The book seemed to be trying to sell me a love triangle that I struggled to buy into from the get go. In part because the chemistry between Emory and Baz came so much from telling the reader about their attraction, rather than letting the reader feel it and just relied on REPEATEDLY mentioning how often Bas blushes around her and his childhood crush on her. However the biggest factor that lead me to not buy it, was because Baz was very clearly in love with (or at least infatuated with) his friend Kai (and for the record he has significantly more emotional chemistry with him than Emory). So I guess like, they hooked me in with a love triangle but it kind of feels like the wrong one lol. Kieran-Emory-Bas, couldn’t care less, Kai-Bas-Emory, I will chuck an almighty fit aboutI listened to this by audiobook and thought the narrators did a great job. Every book I’ve listened to narrated by Gary Furlong has been done so well and I think he was a great fit for Bas. The narrator for Emory also did a fabulous job and it’s not her fault I couldn’t stand her chapters lol. Somehow, despite my numerous grievances and near ocular dislocation caused by all the eye rolling I did at Emory’s constant references to how mediocre she is whilst actively being an idiot, I find myself wanting to continue on the story. Which even I’m confused about. Its worth noting that this story exists in a queer normative world and there is a nonbinary character as well as mentions of sapphic and achillean relationships. Thank you for coming to my TED talkThank you to NetGalley for the opportunity to listen and review this audiobook. (Once again, If they make Emory and Bas end game I will literally throw a riot. Give Bas the hot shadow boy he deserves.)
5879760045	A delightfully lush, dark academia debut teeming with forbidden magic, mystery and secret societies—that fans of Lev Grossman’s The Magicians or Leigh Bardugo’s Ninth House are sure to enjoy. Set in a world full of magic (and told through alternating, dual perspectives) we follow Emory, a teen mage still grieving the loss of her best friend, Romie, to a tragic drowning accident. And Baz, Romie’s reclusive brother still coming to terms with her loss.Estranged since childhood, the pair haven’t spoken in years. But when the drowned students start to wash ashore—with bodies that aren’t as dead as they should be. Emory and Baz must reunite once more. Working together, they hope to uncover the truth behind the drownings, and the shady secret society that shares ties to the all the missing students. But time is of the essence and they must solve the mystery before the magic that claimed Romie and the others, decides to claim the lives of anyone else. I loved every exquisitely detailed second of this! The world-building was breathtaking, with prose that practically swam off the page — and in a very Erin Morgenstern fashion, submerging us in a world of intricately woven lore and lunar-based magic that I found fascinating. Though I did find the pacing (particularly the first half) a little slow. However, I was really fond of the excerpts we encounter (from MC Baz’s favourite book, Song of the Drowned Gods.) Which I thought were really reminiscent of the interconnected stories I fell hopelessly in love with, in Morgenstern’s The Starless Sea. Our protagonists, Emory and Baz were likewise incredibly fascinating too. Suffering from survivor’s guilt (having followed Romie to the sea cave, and being present moments before the tragedy occurred) Emory’s emotional response was quite heartbreaking. However, some of her choices had me seriously questioning her decision making skills. I do admit, that of our two main characters, it was Baz that I felt the most connected to. Being born with Eclipse magic (the most stigmatised branch of magic), Baz has endured a lifetime of vitriol. And yet, his determination to help Emory, (and risk having his own magic bound if they’re caught) was incredibly endearing. Especially after witnessing the depth of his compassion and his unwavering drive to do the right thing—even if it means breaking the rules. Overall, a magic and mystery filled, YA fantasy with a sprinkle of romance and dark academia deliciousness. Also, thanks to Rachel Quin, Simon & Schuster UK & Netgalley for the e-arc.
5731706731	I should’ve known I wouldn’t break the 3-5 curse (I read 3 books that are 5 stars in a row but never a 4th that also is) but had fun still.This is the perfect book for people who liked If We Were Villains but then became interested in witchcraft. It got a little boring by the end but honestly, I think most people would see it the other way around (Hi, nice to meet you. I don't like action, description of physical movements, etc)
5750452906	Allured by the premise of a magical college, tidal/lunar magics, a secret society, and a mystery to be solved I was very excited to dive into Curious Tides. What I was hoping would be a transfixing story, instead wound up being a never ending trudge. If I had not kindly been given access to an e-ARC by the publisher, I would have thrown in the towel very early on.With incredibly lengthy chapters, immense description, and a very slow moving story, my interest was never grasped. The magic system while very creative, felt needlessly complex (especially for a YA novel). The book alternates between two POVs, Emory and Baz, though for most of the book they are not in each other’s presence. We then wind up following two different storylines that seldom cross paths. Based on the information given in the blurb, this played out very differently than how the I anticipated Emory enlisting Baz’s help, and thus the story proceeding.As slow as I found the world building and plot to move, I kept hoping to find something exciting within these pages, but it never came. Our MC was infuriating, the plot twists felt obvious, and it felt like simply too much was trying to be tackled. I think streamlining the ground covered both in side plots and length, would have lended itself greatly.All in all, this was an ambitious debut. The beauty of books and opinions is that they vary so greatly between readers. It appears from other early reviews that this book is finding, and likely will continue to find its target audience. I, however, am not part of it.Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley for the digital copy in exchange for an honest review.
5938083553	my first unintended 1 star book of the year is HERE!!! at first, i was about to give the book 2 stars, i really did, because i like baz and i like the magic system. but any book that evoked so much rage in me that i rant and scream about it in personal chats and on more than one twitter accounts only deserved one star. this book tries to tackle too much, which makes the plot so predictable and lackluster, not to mention how repetitive the world-building is. let's not even start with that "plot twist" that i can already see happening the second that character was introduced. you don't need to be a genius to know it. hell, even a 10 years old would be able to pick it up that quickly lmaooo and it didn't even feel satisfying. when it was revealed, i just wanted the book to be done as quickly as possible. last but not least, and most importantly, i need payment from the author for making me suffer through emory's pov. amazing how this girl is stupid, idiotic, dense, hormonal in a way i absolutely do not respect, have no self-preservation, useless, annoying, i can keep going but it'll be too much for the masses. baz is the only decent character and while i tolerate the story from his pov, the fact that emory spends her time lying and using baz for her own gain and trashing him to another love interest that's so bland and to climb up the stupid social ladder makes me hate the book even more. have i mentioned how much i hate the love triangle? baz absolutely deserves so much better than emory, and keiran is a boring opportunist piece of shit that's so self-absorbed. that romance with keiran is entirely unnecessary and speaks more about the staggeringly high level of incompetence that emory possesses.p.s. the AUDACITY in mentioning ninth house in the description of this book when it can't even live up to nh whatsoever
5886696235	This was a delicious setting and magic system. I loved the college, its secret society, and the house affiliations dependent on moon phase and birthdate. The moon phase and tide alignments were clever and created not only a structure but a mood for the story as well. I ate it up.The characters are in college, and the overall themes and development of the story definitely feel young adult with a predictable plot outline. What strengthened and matured the narrative was Baz's POV chapters. His backstory, relationships, management of his magic, grief, loss, and subsequent need for emotional and magical control, were very compelling. The conversations with his mentor Jae and scenes in the institute were a fascinating part of the narrative. The aspect that drew me out of the story was how convenient things were for the characters. Their access and authority seemed unrealistic. They can access Dovermere whenever they want to even though students regularly drown there—seems like the adults would make it more difficult, with wards, curfews, etc. The institute also seems incredibly easy to infiltrate. Their access to magic feels very overpowered; awesome, but without enough limits to make any plights carry weight. If glamours and illusions can disguise people so absolutely, and power over light can make people invisible, and time can be undone so that misfortunes are reversible, what challenges are left? As it is, it seems the characters' only limitations are their own beliefs. While this is a really solid message thematically, I need magic systems to have some clear limitations, or the world becomes too ungrounded for me.Overall, this is a strong and entertaining YA story, and I will definitely pick up the next book.
7658183465	6/5Całkowicie przepadłam. Wody Tajemne stały się moim faworytem tego półrocza.Emory jako jedyna przetrwała przypływ w jaskini. Tajemnicze wydarzenie jak i śmierć studentów wśród których była jej najlepsza przyjaciółka, poruszyło całą uczelnią magii. Dziewczyna stara się rozwikłać zagadkę ich śmierci, odnajdując sobie nowe pokłady mocy, w której okiełznaniu ma pomóc jej brat zmarłej przyjaciółki - Baz. Jednak jej zdolności przykuwają uwagę także innego studenta...To był przepiękny rejs ale z gatunku tych spokojniejszych - gdzie napawałam się klimatem, historią i bohaterami, a nie scenami akcji.Wody Tajemne skrywają pod powierzchnią idealny klimat dark academia - Uczelnia dla czarodziejów na klifach, ciemne biblioteki, tajne stowarzyszenie oraz tajemniczy tekst książki będący mantrą tej historii:Są wody, co więżą, i wody, co śmierć niosą.Cudownie wykreowany system magii bazujący na fazach księżyca - rodzisz się w danej fazie, otrzymujesz przypisane do niej zdolności i żadne inne, oraz możesz korzystać z nich tylko w czasie tej fazy. Rewelacyjne światotwórstwo wraz z legendą, której okoliczności badają bohaterowie.Styl autorki także mnie zachwycił, liryczny i wprost stworzony pod klimat dark academia.Bohaterowie to w tym wszystkim wisienka na torcie- namacalni i autentyczni. Przygotujecie się na radzenie sobie z traumą, poczuciem przynależności, konfliktami z innymi. Na każdym kroku skrywają tajemnice, manipulują czy grożą, byle by ich sekrety nie wyszły na jaw.Zaskakiwała mnie na każdym kroku - zwrotami akcji i coraz bardziej pochłaniała mnie falami oryginalnej fabuły, dokładając kolejne do wciągające wątki, a gdy sądziłam, że już wiem wszystko, zalała mnie nowym światem topiąc w nadziei, że szybko dostanę kolejny tom.
5605151280	That. Was. Phenomenal. I don’t even have words to describe how much I loved this book. I received an e-ARC yesterday and already finished it because I could not put it down. The mysteries are so compelling. The characters are rich and complex and disasters in their own ways and I loved them! The magic system and world building were so unique. This was so perfectly unpredictable. Normally, I figure out the twist early on but I never saw these twists coming (but in the best way). I was sitting here saying “OHHHH THAT MAKES PERFECT SENSE” right after a reveal. If there isn’t a sequel I will be DEVASTATED. This is what dark academia should be. This debut was perfection in a book. I already can’t wait to reread it. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
5090032804	reading this book was literally the most magical experience of my life
5901104758	I would give this book 10 stars if I could. Wow! It's been so long since I have felt like a book was written for me. This book was written for me or at least that is how I feel. I loved this with my whole soul. The world, the atmosphere, the characters, the fact the book centers on the moon and its' cycles...the main characters even love coffee. I couldn't love a book more if I tried. And what's amazing is I had no idea this book was coming. It was nowhere on my radar. I found it on a whim and it's now one of my favorite books ever. Sometimes the universe blesses me. I am so glad I found this book. A little Dark Academia, a little Fantasy, add some mystery and a splash of celestial magic and you have my favorite book I have read this year so far. Fantastic, this book is just fantastic.
5946258698	"The drowned gods are calling; will you answer?" The first half of this book was veeeery slow paced with a lot of info dumping. It was difficult to read. The magic system was overly complicated to the point of being boring, in my opinion. However, I liked the characters enough to keep reading, and the second half did improve. By a lot. The pace got better, I started to like Baz more, and got invested in the story. I loved Keiran as a character, he was incredibly well written, and completely stole the show for me. I liked Emory, too, she was complicated and flawed and entertaining. Virgil was great too. And Kai–I loved how he was described with his sharp, slanted smiles and midnight voice, etc. Overall, this book was flawed, but with occasional moments of brilliance, and was a decently enjoyable read once the pace picked up in the second half. The atmosphere was enticing, the dark academia aspect did appeal to me and if it weren't for pacing issues and too much info dumping, I definitely think this book could have been brilliant. As it is, it wasn't bad, it just wasn't incredible either. I genuinely enjoyed the second half of the book which redeemed it for the boring first half. I don't regret reading this book. At the 20% mark I was worried I might, and considered DNFing. But I'm glad I finished this and I'll take that as a win. Quotes:"But books allowed Baz to dream without fear of falling."Evil awaits the careless.""...with the stories he inhales and the words he exhales, as much sustenance to him as air.""The thought was at once thrilling and unbearable.""You underestimate how tireless I can be when I chase after something I want.""But don't confuse his interest in you with his obsession with power.""Besides, there was the Keiran Dunhall Thornby of it all." 😂"What if in pretending to be mediocre, he had become so?" "I've got you, Ains." 🤩"Power unrivaled.""Blood and bones and heart and soul.""Kai smiled, a dangerous thing."
5344210218	Why had she gone into those caves? How had she survived what others more magically gifted than her had not?⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 3.75Thank you to Simon and Schuster for providing an arc in exchange for a review!Five students ventured to the depths of caves. Only Emory returns. The rest drowned in the murky deeps and presumed dead. Only Emory believes her best friend is still alive and calling for her in a place no one has ventured except for in myths and legends. A school where those with magic in their veins learns to control and excel. A secret society dealing in odd magics and rituals. Caves that have a dark mystery and an even darker past of drowned students and monstrous nightmares. ”Because this book is magic. It's like a portal, you see. It lets you step into other worlds and exist there for a time."I loved the relatable feelings of inadequacy and hopelessness the cast of characters felt. There was academic competition, but more poignant was the social pressure. The need to fit in, the desire to be seen, the wish for identity, belonging, and community. It was all she'd ever wanted, to be seen. To have someone see her for everything that she was and wasn't and deem it enough.The push and pull of being your own person where you’re constantly compared, or think you are. Where you measure yourself up to others, putting them on a pedestal so you’re always looking up from afar, unable to see your own worth and sense of self. This leads nicely into another important theme: manipulation. How we lean on others and rely on them to build us up… or tear us down. ”But don't confuse his interest in you with his obsession with power."I would recommend this if you enjoyed The Atlas Six, Ninth House, and Legendborn! Bookstagram
5748688812	3.5/5 StarsI really wish Goodreads had half stars, but this book was definitely not a four star rating to me, so three it is. I originally picked Curious Tides up because I read the blurb where it is compared to A Deadly Education, which is one of my favorite series. Unfortunately, this did not match up.The first 200 pages (first half) of this book were excruciating. I felt like nothing ever happened and the same plot details were being rehashed over and over again. The characters felt one dimensional, particularly the main characters. Baz's whole personality was based around a book he was obsessed with, whose plot was essentially retold in every chapter from Baz's perspective. Emory felt bland and had moments of both being unnecessarily paranoid about sharing secrets and moments where she felt entirely too trusting for no reason. There's a scene in the book where (view spoiler)[ she feels bad for keeping a secret from Kieran because she says he's been entirely trusting and honest with her. Nevermind that he just recently manipulated her into sharing her secrets with a large group of people. (hide spoiler)]. In some moments, Emory entirely ignored things she heard or things people told her. These things were later used as plot twists, but I noticed them immediately and it just made her look oblivious and somewhat dumb.The love triangle in this book was kinda painful. Emory had some chemistry with Baz, but she spends most of her time focusing on Kieran instead. I understand why, for plot purposes, but she falls way too quickly and is entirely too trusting of him. Kieran and Emory have no chemistry, and the supposed attraction between them feels fake. As a whole, the entire first half of the book was just a lot of repeated, drawn out setup that I struggled to care about.The second half of Curious Tides, thankfully, was much better. Once I reached about 250-300 pages, I was flying through the book and finished it not too long after. This was when some of the action started to pick up and the book went further into the magic and mystery of the world. The magic system was still nothing entirely special to me, but I did enjoy how Pascale Lacelle used the concept of 'Collapsing' and some other smaller aspects of the magic. Baz's time magic was fun, and I wish we had seen more of Romie or Kai's dream/nightmare magic because the concept was really interesting. Emory still had moments of obliviousness that left me frustrated, but she did get better in the second half. I still found it difficult to believe she had two guys falling over her and a lot of the emotional moments fell flat, but I did enjoy her moments with Romie. While she is by no means one of my favorite main characters, she was tolerable and even enjoyable by the end. Baz quickly became my favorite of the book and I found his plot far more interesting than anything Emory did. Most of Emory's arc was predictable, but Baz's chapters held multiple plot twists that I did not see coming at all. I enjoyed seeing him finally stop being so nervous by the end and look forward to what he may become in future books. While I'm not dying for the sequel or eager to reread, I did enjoy the second half of Curious Tides and will probably be reading the sequel whenever it is published. Hopefully, Emory will become more interesting in the future now that (view spoiler)[ Romie is back (hide spoiler)]
6688846948	Ok, ok, OK. Objectivement, ce livre avait tout pour me plaire. L'univers est juste incroyable, riche, original, immersif. L'intrigue est prenante avec ce qu'il faut d'enjeux pour te captiver et avec suffisamment de rebondissements pour te tenir en haleine jusqu'à la fin. Enfin, les personnages sont attachants et intéressants car plein de doutes, de failles voire de défauts, ce qui te rend plus aptes à t'identifier à eux et leur donne une marge de progression tout au long du roman. Rien n'est statique et c'est vraiment bien mené. Je le dis : en temps normal, j'aurais pu mettre 4 étoiles à ce roman, easyyyy. MAIS, le petit soucis, c'est qu'en ce moment, je suis en mode "romances" donc je n'ai envie de lire que ça, donc les univers de fantasy, bien que riches et intéressants... Bah j'ai du mal à rentrer dedans. Là par exemple, j'ai trouvé qu'on avait beaucoup de longueurs, surtout au début et que la richesse de l'univers donnait un début un peu dense, avec beaucoup d'explications en permanence, ce qui était assez déstabilisant. C'est un roman qui nécessite de prendre le temps de tout installer et c'est objectivement une bonne chose, mais vu que je suis dans le mood pour lire des petites romances cute qui se dévorent, bah ça m'a freinée. Bref. Cet avis n'a aucun sens. En gros, j'ai aimé ma lecture, mais je l'aurais encore plus aimé si je l'avais lu à un autre moment et c'est hyper frustrant de réaliser ça. Voilà. xoxo.
5704903039	✔️ Dark Academia✔️ Messy relationships, both platonic and romantic. ✔️ Secret societies✔️ Bad decisions galore.✔️ Eldric magics blended with hard magicsThis was fun and held together well till near the end when it hit rough waters. Nothing unsalvageable considering there is another book coming in this world.It has engaging characters, nice world building, lovely writing, and the pacing never faulters.
5704051411	Wow. I am fascinated with this magical world. Pascales immersive world building takes us to the enchanting Aldryn College for Lunar Magic, with houses based on the phases of the moon. Each phase having their own set of magic makes for so many interesting characters, which we follow throughout the book. The story completely swept me away with the magical atmosphere, thrilling mysteries, gripping character building and simply fantastic writing. I really enjoyed the alternating chapters from different characters perspectives which made for an exciting read. The twists in the plot kept me gripped and the ending had me completely shocked! Cannot wait for the next book in the series….I need more!Thank you to Net Galley & Simon & Schuster Children’s UK for an advanced copy in return for an honest review.
5530697086	TLDR review: Great world-building and magic system; chapters are long af; Baz is damaged but sweet/loveable; Emory’s an emotionally messy batchCurious Tides by Pascale Lacelle has been one of my most anticipated releases for the year. It’s a book with a magic system based on the phases of the moon. What’s there not to love about that? Coming from the standpoint of a moon-loving crystal witch, the book gives off the impression that it has been dipped in the precious moonlight and sprinkled in the light of the stars. So, imagine my excitement at being able to read this book.Curious Tides is about a girl named Emory and a boy named Baz. They both attend Aldryn College, a university designed around helping people with special abilities further their studies and applications of their magic. In this universe, whatever moon phase a person is born under gives them special magic related to the particular phase of the moon. Emory is a healer born under the New Moon while Baz is an outlier, being born under an eclipse. Unfortunately for Baz, in this world, the religion states that the eclipse-born represent people born under the phase of the Shadow, or this world’s proverbial devil. As the belief goes, the Shadow stole magic from the Tides/Moon Phases forcing the Tides to lock him away, sacrificing themselves in the process. So, Baz, like others born under the eclipse, are treated poorly like they themselves are untrustworthy thieves.The magic system of this world is phenomenal. The application and explanation of the moon phases translated into magic is imaginative and extremely well thought out. All while reading, you find yourself going back and forth trying to decide which phase of the moon you would like to be born under. The applications of each form of magic are almost endless. Take Baz, for example, he is a Time Spinner. He can change time around an object or person. He can even stop time in an entire room, or he can pick and choose different aspects of the room to pause, reverse, or slow down. If you have ever watched the reboot of Charmed, his power closely resembles Mel, the middle sister. Towards the end of the book, I, along with Baz, began to question where the limit of his power lies. And, that is one of the great aspects of this book, the potential for the plot feels endless as the world is built on such great magic and mythology. The pacing of this book is where the book could use some work. The chapters are broken up into Emory and Baz’s POV. Switching Points of view works greatly for this book. However, the chapters are incredibly long and slows the pacing of the book. This book would definitely prosper from shortened chapters even if those chapters stay in the same POV. Speaking of the two main points of view, this is where this review begins to take a u-turn.While Baz was a loveable nerd full of anxiety, wanting deep-down in his heart to do the right thing, Emory was a shallow, annoying, selfish, and self-centered hypocrite. To say that I didn’t like this character is being too nice. I hated her. There were several times throughout the book where I wanted her to eat dirt. And, this is not out of my personal point of dislike, but because of her thought processes and actions in the book. From the beginning of the book, everything is about Emory. What does Emory need? What does Emory want? The book starts off with the reader learning of a traumatic event that happened at the end of the previous term. Basically, Emory was near ground zero of her best friend Romie’s death. She spends months during the summer dealing with this traumatic event. When she comes back to school, she’s emotionally devastated. But, you know who else is emotionally devastated? Baz is. Romie was his sister after all. Emory went through prep school with both Romie AND Baz. They grew up as friends, so Romie’s death should have been a shared experience between Emory and Baz. But is it? No, because Emory chooses to shut down and keep things to herself. I am fully aware that people grieve in their own way. However, the way that Emory grieved was by shutting herself off, not communicating with Baz, and ultimately gaslighting his feelings about Romie’s death. Emory was dead to me when the gaslighting started.There is also an element of mystery surrounding what actually happened to Romie. This is a perfect time where Emory could open up, even just a bit, to Baz in order for them to work together to figure out what happened to someone they both loved. But, does Emory do that? No, she lies and keeps secrets from Baz. Then, she goes to the hot dude on campus and his group of friends and lays her heart bare for them. The priorities of this character are all screwed up. Grief can be used as an excuse for her smorgasbord of emotions. And, by smorgasbord, I mean she was jealous at points, she was needy, she was gullible, and she was irrationally angry. Grief can only be an excuse for so much of her actions though. The most inexcusable thing about Emory as a character is her lack of responsibility. Throughout the book she emotionally manipulates Baz, she gaslights him, and she downplays his feelings towards her. She treats a person that she has known almost all of her life like he’s a pawn on a chessboard. And, at the end of the book when Baz finds out, she doesn’t even truly apologize. She gives this lackluster tear-filled apology. This even comes off like emotional manipulation because she uses her devastation and aftermath of the poor decisions she’s made to garner sympathy while apologizing. That is not a true apology. Then, what makes it ten times worse is that Baz, being the bigger person, tries to find the silver-lining in this bottom-feeder of a person.I usually really enjoy the chosen one trope in books, but only if that character seems worthy of the power they have been given. Emory is definitely not worthy. She does absolutely nothing to garner the abilities she’s given. She even mentions in her internal monologue about how she feels entitled to have powers and be special. This book is the first of a series, and I seriously hope she has a chance to grow in the next book because she is a nineteen year-old with the emotional intelligence of a ten year-old.Baz had a great opportunity to grow in this book, and he did. Was it a steady upward line of growth? No, but he kept giving it a shot all the same. His adventure in this book is the one I am most interested in. I am also looking forward to the development and adventure of other side characters like Kai and Jae. I'm also looking forward to Baz’s developing relationship with his father. Emory can go take a long walk off a short plank.This book was a series of ups and downs for me. I both liked and didn’t like a lot of things while reading it. I’m looking forward to the next book though.Thank you to #turnthepagestours and Simon and Schuster for the arc. All opinions are my own, and I leave this review voluntarily.
5731199157	3.5 stars! This had me in a vice grip, even with the overwhelming worldbuilding to start! I flew through this one and had fun, as I always do with dual POVs, my beloved. Though I ADORED Baz, Emory drove me absolutely insane. I was telepathically shaking the bejesus out of her like, “USE YOUR BRAIN WHAT ARE U DOING YOU FUCKIN FOOL” and she never listened. The plot twist was painfully predictable and I spent a majority of the second half annoyed by the love triangle and the climax. I think this book is just a bit too long; I ended up skimming quite a bit. Even with my gripes, I am interested to see how the series will wrap up so will attempt to pick up the next book (I’ve been woefully unmotivated to keep up with ongoing series lately but I swear I’ll try!)Thanks to S&S for the ARC!
6259938450	loved the lyrical and dreamy writing, but it's a very slow book (the first half certainly feels like too much information in one go) with looooong chapters and i definitely found myself preferring one character's perspective over another, especially as their storylines diverge. i'm not ruling out checking out the sequel, though, because the world building and magic systems were intriguing. 3.5 stars.
5877631578	I loved the unique magic system in this book! A unique plot with interesting characters and emotional depth. This book kept me on my toes solving mysteries, analyzing clues and rooting for my favourite love interest. It gives angst, mystery, found family, dark academia and more. The perfect fall read!
5352555530	— 4.5mesmerising actually. fantasy books with academic settings ily 🫶🏽 complex and intricate world building, intriguing storyline and just unique overall — i haven’t read anything like this before and absolutely devoured it 💫everyone needs to read this as soon as it comes out ‼️— thank you to the author for sending me a physical arc 💖
5773246998	Meet my new personality
6803566932	finally found an all-time fave!!
5702841071	Curious Tides is something I've never read before. I've read tarot card magic, dragon magic, and even elemental magic, but never magic that stems directly from the moon and Tides. This book had a unique magic system that was mystical and pretty easy to grasp which made the conflict surrounding make sense.The writing was also incredibly beautiful and draws a lot from its world and setting. It can be compared to the writing of Spells For Forgetting as well, which i also enjoyed. I never got bored and with the academia prose included Lacelle made me feel smarter at times lol.My favorite thing about this book were two characters in particular. Baz and Kai. Now I'm very critical of Male characters, growing up reading classics and required reading that had so many male main characters and underlying misogyny its very hard to make me like make characters and I tend to hate them pretty easily. YET BAZ AND KAI ARE LITERALLY MY FAVORITE! How this happened... I connected with them so much! Baz and his shy characteristics and wanting to change to protect those around him... Kai's fierce loyalty to his friend and his no BS attitude. I loved their friendship SO MUCH, and I'll protect Baz always! 💖 However, there were some cons about this book. Main one being Emory. Like idk what it was about her character but each time I read her POV I hated it and was bored. I found it very hard to empathize with her character, even after learning she had survivors guilt. Honestly I just felt like she was the most foolish character I've ever seen.. and that could be because she was grieving, but GOD knows how much I wanted to slap her silly. I think she's the first FMC I really dislike... not hate because she does have some redeeming qualities, but let's just say it I ever saw her irl... I'd avoid her like the plague.Not to mention, the secret society was dumb and seemed really useless. They recruit these students that are the best of the best, yet when disaster strikes they do nothing. And when finally someone seems good enough to be their leader their join decision is too... this is a spoiler so I'm not gonna say, but it's dumb af.Official rating: 3/5
6489691013	Este libro me ha flipado porque tiene uno de los sistemas de magia más originales que he leído. La autora se ha inspirado en la influencia gravitacional de la Luna sobre las mareas, para establecer la base de su sistema mágico.En este universo, las personas están vinculadas a diferentes fases lunares según su fecha de nacimiento (nueva, creciente, llena, menguante y eclipse), y cada fase les otorga poderes particulares relacionados con las mareas (ascendentes o descendentes), a excepción de la casa de la Eclipse, que se considera especial y envidiada.Lo que más disfruté de este libro es la claridad del sistema de magia. A menudo, en otras historias, las habilidades de los personajes pueden resultar confusas o poco visuales. Sin embargo, aquí la magia está muy bien explicada, lo que permite que las escenas de acción sean fáciles de imaginar y, por ende, más emocionantes.La historia sigue a Emory, una estudiante en la prestigiosa Universidad de Aldryn, especializada en magias lunares. Emory pertenece a la casa de la Luna Nueva y es una sanadora atormentada por la reciente pérdida de su mejor amiga en un trágico suceso. Decidida a descubrir la verdad detrás de este incidente, Emory busca la ayuda de Baz, el hermano de su amiga, quien pertenece a la casa de la Eclipse, una de las más despreciadas pero también la más poderosa y envidiada.A lo largo de la trama, los obstáculos se acumulan y las respuestas no son fáciles de encontrar. La historia, aunque en algunos momentos puede parecer lenta, me ha mantenido atrapada gracias a los misterios que rodean a la universidad y sus secretos. La autora maneja a la perfección el suspense y el desarrollo de personajes, en especial Baz, uno de los personajes que más me han gustado.El dark academia, con sus intrigas y secretos, añade un componente atractivo a la trama, aunque algunos giros me los he visto venir. En definitiva, es una lectura que recomiendo a los fanáticos de la fantasía que buscan una historia mágica con personajes complejos y un sistema de magia único y bien desarrollado.
5728656481	2.5 stars rounded up.The first half was a solid 2 star read, and the second half was 3 stars at best. Everything was predictable and only somewhat entertaining.This was one of my most anticipated reads after seeing the cover and blurb on NetGalley. I love magical schools and the magic system was pretty cool. But it turned out to be a pretty meh read. I'll probably end up forgetting about this in a month or so.I absolutely hated how the first half was just Emory whining about how she sucked at magic, how she had no friends, blah blah blah. Sure, her bestie died, but Emory came off as a stage 5 clinger and honestly, it was extremely cringe to read. Romie this, Romie that. I just didn't give a shit.And there was one person Emory could actually be friends with and commiserate with (Baz, Romie's brother). Instead, Emory lied to him and just used him for her own gain. What a bitch.Then there was some boring love triangle between Emory, Baz, and Kieran. Emory and Kieran both had the personality of a wet blanket. It was easy enough to see that Kieran was just using her, yet Emory was head over heels for him. They were both boring as hell. They deserve each other.Oh, yeah, ofc Emory was the ~*Chosen One*~. My god, could there be a more boring chosen one?Honestly, Baz and his family were the only cool characters in this novel.As the kids would say it, this was pretty mid.
7171700596	Ehhh me ha parecido chulísimo????? La idea, el worldbuilding, la magia y los personajes han sido geniales 🩵 Siento que en algún momento se ha enrevesado la cosa algo más, pero todo bien.
7992104516	4.25 ⭐️ Oh, I really enjoyed this one! I was a bit worried since I’ve seen a lot of mixed reviews for this book, so I’m glad I liked this a lot more than I thought I would! Dark academia is a hit or miss for me, but this was the type of dark academia that was right down my alley, filled with distinct, fleshed out characters and an amazing, immersive magic system. My absolute favorite thing about this novel was the magic system and the way it was utilised in the story. In short, the magic in the story is based on one’s tidal alignment when they are born and the magic that corresponds to it, e.g. students born under the waning Moon and rising tide specialise in dreamer magic and can only use their magic during their specific moon phase. I was so immersed it made me want to check my own tidal alignment and it was so cool that there was a quiz for it! The magic system felt very fleshed out and found a way to turn what can be cliché magic into something unique and new. For instance, I really liked the way time magic was dealt in the story. While time magic isn’t necessarily new, Lacelle found a way to reinvent the wheel. My favorite one explored had to be the exploration of nightmares hehe. The lore was great too, filled with so much intrigue and mystery that kept me wanting to find out more, especially the stories at the beginning of each section that felt reminiscent of a dark fairytale. I loved learning about Dovermore and what lay beyond it, but also wanting to find out what happened to the drowned victims. The novel can feel self-contained since the main settings involve the school and the Dovermore, but halfway through book 2 currently, I can easily say trust the process! The build up is incredibly worth it. Book 1 barely scratches the surface of the world Lacelle has begun to craft, and opens the door for many, many exciting things to come where the possibilities feel endless. I really liked the distinct array of characters introduced to the story. I found them very fleshed out. I would say the first novel feels more character driven and takes its time getting to know the characters, but I found that this worked to the novel’s benefit. Even if I personally disagreed with some of the decisions the characters made, I understood the choices they made because they were all fleshed out with their motives and backstory clearly established to the audience. This is essentially a story about desperate people and the lengths they’ll go to to achieve their goals – some you’ll love, some you won’t, and some you’ll love to hate. Even then, I don’t think I hated anyone since I understood their desperation, their trauma, and would have made the same decisions in their shoes. The character dynamics got more complex as it went and I loved seeing how everyone’s story tied into each other’s. In conclusion, all of them are just tortured souls and need therapy. I am not ashamed to say I LOVED the villain, genuinely so charismatic where I fell under their thrall, LMFAO. I saw the red flags, but chose to ignore them because they pulled it off so well. I can fix them, guys. I really can. The dynamic the FMC had with the villain genuinely was so Alina x Darkling coded I ate it up. I love a manipulative villain that pulls it off so well with their honeyed tongue. I genuinely did not blame Emory for folding because I would have, too. I didn’t really have any issues with this one! Some themes and concepts aren’t anything new, but I didn’t mind. It was still a solidly told story that felt very well written. The novel can feel slow, but I was never bored since I loved learning more about the characters and what drives them. I guess the only thing that bothered me was that Emory and Baz’s relationship can feel a bit forced, but it felt intentionally done where two people who are new to love and are not sure what it is believe they love each other when what they feel is infatuation and are only brought together because of their shared trauma. Not ashamed to admit I ship Kaz with Baz and Emory with the villain even if it was wrong LMFAO.
7400071292	Bardzo podobał mi się system magiczny oparty na fazach księżyca, ale reszta już niestety mniej. Czytając miałam wrażenie, że oglądam "Riverdale" albo jakiś odcinek specjalny Sabriny na Netflixie, głównie przez główną bohaterkę i ten okropny "trójkąt romantyczny", jeżeli Baz będzie z kimś innym niż z Kaiem, to wrócę tu i zmienię na 1 gwiazdkę, bo nie ma opcji, że najciekawsza postać skończy z tą "pick me, choose me, love me" typiarą. Ogólnie tło super, ale szkoda, że reszta taka Netflixowa i schematyczna jak właśnie z takiego serialu, bo przed to nie byłam w stanie wczuć się w klimat.
7088785213	Things here that I realize now I'm over: - oh so special protagonists with super powerful magic abilities- "twists" that are foreshadowed so hard they grow stale before they've even happened- books that feel YA and yet are placed in college and marketed as adultI should have given up on this book after it took me 3 times reading the first few chapters to be able to follow what was going on. I expected that the book would get better. But it turns out all the exposition of the book had as much care as that first section. Either way too vague, or beating you over the head with it.
6701721287	4.5I had such a lovely time reading this book! The detailed and complex world-building caught my attention right away. I'm very week for Moon themed anything; the way in which Pascale Lacelle made use of Moon motifs in the magical universe she created here was fantastic. Combined with the Tides and its effect on said magical universe, I was engrossed from the first few chapters and curious to know more about how all of this magic worked.The dual perspectives were also very well written! Emory and Baz had distinct voices and characters journeys. The contrast between them as main narrative forces was very intriguing, especially as the plot progressed and the dynamic between them changed. I will say: Baz was my favorite of the two and his character development throughout was very satisfying. For Emory... I appreciated all of her characters flaws, but that didn't help me not feel incredibly frustrated with her at times.The plot was a bit predictable, I have to admit. However, it was not done so in a way that took my interest or enjoyment away while reading. I was engaged throughout and found this experience to be so entertaining! I also really liked was Lacelle did with the final few chapters--I have so many questions about so many things now! I can't wait for the sequel to arrive :D
5875082343	Thank you to Simon and Schuster and NetGalley for providing an eARC to review!New dark academia obsession? YES, ABSOLUTELY! It's definitely one of my favorite books now. I can't even find the words to describe what an incredible read this is! I'm already bullying my book club friends to preorder and read this because I need them to be as obsessed with Curious Tides as I am; and I definitely know they will be. The writing, the characters, the unique magic system are all so wonderful! I could not stop reading, I was living in this amazing world and now I'm having such a hard time coming back to reality. Please, please give this book and this author the hype they deserve for this magical masterpiece!
7286220235	this book was so boring i seriously considered bashing my head into the wall in the hopes that i would receive a severe concussion and have an excuse not to finish this book.
5740347467	Marketing got me again with the blurb comparing this to A Deadly Education. I can't remember the last time a book featured such a self-centered main character (that we're supposed to root for? I sure didn't). Emory was a deadly combination of stupid and egotistical, trusting strangers for no good reason and not trusting friends for... ~reasons~. I wasn't sold on her friendship with anyone and the "romance" was laughable. Baz was marginally better. The pacing was awful, the first 250 pages were a constant repetition of Emory and Baz thinking how everyone else is so much more interesting/vibrant/competent than them. The second half isn't so excruciatingly slow but the plot is so predictable that it's still a chore to get through. The magic system is interesting but doesn't make up for a weak plot and characterization.
6001963889	3.75⭐️ maybe? Overall, I did enjoy this book and wanted to keep reading. I liked the atmosphere and the magic. The characters were a mess, but that’s the whole point 😂. What kept this from a higher rating for me, is that there felt like something was missing. What that something is? I have no idea. If you liked Ninth House, dark academia, secret societies, forbidden magic, sprinkle of romance-give this book a shot! I’ll for sure read the 2nd installment. I need to know what happens next, because that ending has me intrigued.
6030676821	I adored this book and the magic system in it! Who doesn't love a magic school, am I right?!? Emory might be a student at the prestigious Aldryn College for Lunar Magics, but her healing magic is mediocre at best. The magic system is built on tide magic and moon phases. The moon phase when one was born ascribes your house at birth--waxing crescent, full moon, waning crescent, new moon, and eclipse--and inherit magic that relates to that moon phase. Powers are strongest during your given moon phase, except for eclipse magic which can be pulled on at any time, making them powerful, but they must be careful for they risk burning out and collapsing. Emory is returning to Aldryn College after the previous year and a treacherous night left a bunch of her classmates, including her best friend, dead from drowning, with Emory as the only survivor. Emory has since been experiencing oddities with her magic. Convinced that her classmates were a part of a secret society, Emory is determined to uncover the truth. With the help of Baz, her best friend's brother, who is familiar with darker magic, Emory sets out to understand what is happening to her magic and what really happened that deadly night. When Emory captures the society’s attention, she finds herself drawn into their world of privilege and power. Straddling her old world and new, Emory must uncover the truth of what happened and what her real role in it is, all while trying to control these new powers. Ok so, it's so much better than my summary is! This world, the magic, the characters--incredible! I lived for this story and the magic system. I also, personally, appreciated how, while there is a slight love triangle, romance is not even close to being a main focus. I think the world and magic takes the cake in this story, but it's all good! If this has interested you, I cannot recommend it more.
6911654604	C'est un très bel univers mais la plume et le rythme me laissent perplexe ! Premièrement j'adore la magie et la complexité de celle-ci. L'univers est bien travaillé tout comme les personnages. J'ai adoré l'ambiance un peu "dark academia" grâce à la magie et le lieu autour de l'institut. Toutefois, j'ai eu du mal avec l'intrigue : les questions que je me posais sont vite résolues le chapitre d'après. Ca donne un rythme très lent d'autant plus que certaines descriptions et pensées des personnages sont répétitifs parfois. En bref : une bonne lecture mais je ne sais pas si je vais poursuivre !
6126435317	Tolle Story, tolles Magiesystem (Mondphasen).Hin und wieder ein klein wenig Vorhersehbar, aber richtig fesselnd! Ich freue mich schon auf den zweiten Band.
5822160661	3.5!
5667537761	the vibes and writing of this were more than I could have DREEEAMED of but the pacing was a bit off and the world building was slightly repetitive. PUMPED for book 2 though.
5888242366	Let me just say the cover and premise of this book are absolutely gorgeous. Sadly, the execution fell flat for me and unfortunately this one fell into too many tired YA tropes that took away from my enjoyment. Curious Tides takes place in a world ruled by the tides where people are distinguished based on the moon phase on their birth date. There are dual perspectives, Baz, the eclipse born who can manipulate time, and Emory, a new moon born healer who just lost her best friend the previous year to a deadly secret society ritual. Together the two form an unlikely friendship to try to bring back Emory’s friend from the dead who happens to be Baz’s sister. The world had so much promise and was genuinely unlike anything I had ever read.There’s a few things I didn’t vibe with and I’ll keep them brief. There’s a love triangle in here that made my eyes roll to the back of my head. Very unnecessary in my opinion and made Emory feel like she was 13 and not 19. I get being young and dumb but she’s supposed to be this chosen one most powerful person in a generation and was simply *dumb* in both romantic relationships and in general lol I just really hated her. Baz was okay but it was so painful watching him fall for Emory. It felt forced and clunky all around. I should have known when this book was comped with Ninth House that the magic system might not be my cup of tea. Very interesting but ultimately too up in the air for me to feel grounded in the story. Due to the vast amounts of different magic and abilities, the world felt too big and under-explained. There was also virtually no stakes due to one character’s ability and that’s a pet peeve of mine. I never believed anything truly bad would happen throughout the story. Overall, I commend this book for its concept and brief moments of interesting character work. I probably won’t pick up the sequel because I don’t really care? I would read it for Kai though
5911316374	I was intrigued by the premise of Curious Tides, magic based on tidal moon phases, dark academia with mystery and secret societies. A YA fantasy where the Lunar Houses are reminiscent of Harry Potter more than Ninth House, in my opinion. Unfortunately I couldn’t get on board with the story and just didn’t feel invested. It featured an unnecessarily complex and overambitious magical system that became too tedious to follow. The pacing was painfully slow, even on audio which is how I read this. I found many clues or reveals would catch my attention but then fizzle out by the next chapter. I kept waiting for something more and in retrospect should have quit by 30% but I kept trudging on. The dual POVs were too disconnected for my liking, especially with two different narrators, and in truth I never connected with either Emory or Baz. The last few chapters starting at Chapter 35 (out of 42) had the most stakes and interest, but it’s overshadowed by the lackluster majority of the book. Ultimately this one missed the mark for me and I’m disappointed but maybe I’m an outlier because others seemed to like it.
6522480949	3.75⭐️ (Rounded up for Goodreads)“It’s always the quietest minds that hide the worst sort of violence.” This prose is so beautifully written! The world building is intense (I literally had to take notes) but it’s very immersive. Twenty characters introduced, an entire magic system, a school of magic with five unique houses, all of which have their own specific abilities. Despite all that it’s really good. Think Harry Potter meets A Study In Drowning. Also, how about a round of applause for the presentation? The hardcover is absolutely stunning. Such attentional to detail, from the chapter headings to the appendix it’s a gorgeous book.I must admit that Curious Tides loses some steam midway and begins to drag a bit. There’s also something missing that I can’t quite put my finger on but it prevents me from giving it a higher rating. I bought the second book and intend to read it but I’m not super excited about it if that makes sense? I actually tried starting it on release day and decided it wasn’t the right time, total mood reader here! 👋
5662732747	CW: death, grief, murder, branding, body horror, panic attacks, anxiety, depression, bloodletting, self-harm, alcohol, magical substance abuse, magical asylum, magical prisonI knew from the first 100 pages this was going to be a five start read. This upcoming release is going to be perfect for spooky season since it comes out 10/3/2023.DARK FANTASYMAGICAL COLLEGE DARK ACADEMIA DUAL POVESTRANGED FRIENDS SECERT SOCIETY CULT MAGIC SYSTEM BASED ON MOON PHASES AND TIDE LEVELS MYTHS THAT MAYBE AREN’T MYTHS AFTER-ALLFORBIDDEN MAGICMURDER MYSTERYCOMPLEX CHARACTERS GREAT WORLD BUILDINGTWISTS TURNS PLOT TWIST CLIFFHANGER THAT LEAVES YOU IN DESPAIR WAITING FOR THE SEQUEL THAT DOES NOT HAVE A RELEASE DATE NEEEEED MORE. Meanwhile, I’m going to run to the prequel that’s available on Simon & Schuster’s website.
5737717008	Curious Tides was a great book, and it reminded me a little of The Black Witch. The writing and character development were phenomenal. The transitions between POVs were smooth. My only major gripe is how long it was. Thank you to GoodReads Giveaways for offering this title. This review is completely my own.
5908607433	This was a very interesting read! It's a pretty good Dark Academia novel, containing all the vibes and the main elements this genre has, such as secret societies, myths, secret magic and a lot of mystery!The characters are also well-built, being quite dynamic in terms of actions and thoughts.The worldbuilding is very complex! I really appreciated how much info there was about this world.The plot twists are also quite interesting, even if you can predict them.Overall, this is a great Fantasy Dark Academia post and I reccomend it for fans of this genre!
5712070093	life is too short to read books you aren’t enjoyingI was like 65% into this? Still nothing… I don’t care for these flat characters. The writing is pretty, but also kinda bores me? Still not much happened so idk if it’ll be worth it?
5430207412	4,5⭐️ - Très bonne lectureDès les premières pages, je suis tombée amoureuse de cet univers et de son world-building. Curious Tides est un roman à l'atmosphère envoûtante, nous invitant dans une université magique au bord de la mer, où les secrets sont nombreux et bien sombres.J'ai trouvé que le système de magie, basé sur les phases de la lune et les marées, était extrêmement complet et bien trouvé, j'ai adoré découvrir toutes les formes de magie (surtout celle de Baz qui est si stylée). Au delà de ça, je trouve qu'on est sur un bon roman dark academia, qui prend son temps pour installer les évènements mais cela ne m'a pas du tout dérangée ! Même s'il y a beaucoup de mystères et de choses à assimiler au début, tout finit par prendre du sens et devenir très intéressant. J'ai aussi adoré le fait qu'un livre soit au centre de l'intrigue, j'ai trouvé que ça rajoutait une couleur encore plus iréelle à l'atmosphère.Les personnages sont complexes et non-exempts de défauts mais je trouve que cela les rend terriblement humains, même si je comprends qu'on puisse ne pas apprécier Emory, ses failles ont vraiment résonné avec les miennes. Baz est un personnage incroyable, qu'on veut tous protéger 🥺Un roman très très réussi, qui m'a énormément rappelé A Study of Drowning : j'ai adoré !
7100867689	A lush and atmospheric fantasy that dives into a world of tidal magic and dangerous secrets, Curious Tides enchants with its richly woven lore, compelling characters, and a plot that pulls you in like the ocean’s relentless current.
7825956808	miłość/5to było FENOMENALNE 😭🩷 kocham bohaterów, kocham tę książkę, give me mooooreeeeeeee
5887978116	“Sometimes death is just that, and accepting it is the best we can hope for”Death is sprinkled maniacally throughout this book, like an over powdered donut, and it’s a theme that every major character in the book has to deal with in their own way. Emory is plagued by thoughts of her lost best friends and the others that died at Dovermere cove on one faithful night. Baz is tormented by the loss of his sister and his loved ones that have been institutionalized for their collapsing magic, and Keiran mourns for his lost parents. But there is also a hopeful message in the subtext, written underneath the hallows of a dark menacing cave and the nightmarish spirits that haunt there. It’s a message of facing one’s fears and not being afraid to push oneself past their safety boundaries and to follow one’s heart no matter the cost. It’s a story about friendship and the ability to hold onto your friend even if it sends you into a darkness you can’t decipher or comprehend. I thought things moved a little slowly at first. The exposition, though necessary, was a little overpowering and I would have liked to see more scenes of Emory and Baz in their classes and not always being on the edge of the plots precipice, but the story is quite compelling and the characters are vividly written. Chapter 36 was especially fun, as were all the scenes with Baz and the illusionist, Jae. I thought the book was a little too predictable, but since the book is essentially a character study of two characters, it never hindered things too much. There are also some beautifully written passages and I’ll highlight a couple of them here:“They were part of something. A mainland of activity and connection bound by a desire to belong, to experience, to live in all the messy senses of the word”“Everything the notes touched grew and bloomed, herding the music’s call: fish curved out of the water like synchronized swimmers; algae crept along the sides of the boat, interweaving with the great vines of hollyhock that adorned it, the vegetation dancing in time with the strings; night birds and crickets and frogs lent their own voices to the song, and the night became an orchestra, the river a stage, with two singers as their conductors.”
5917000699	Let me start by saying I am far from being a young adult and that may have prevented me from enjoying this book more. However on paper, this should have been just my bag. It was *ok* although I found the pacing very slow. I didn’t get much sense of the characters and the magic seemed more complex than it needed to be or poorly described. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
5896229636	4 ⭐ CW: violence, self-harm, murder, death Curious Tides by Pascale Lacelle is book one in the Drowned Gods duology. This is a YA dark academia with a magic school! I really liked the magic system in this book surrounding the moon and the tides. Neither of the MCs seem to be queer (yet), but we do see a couple of sapphic and achillean side characters. We follow Emory, a New Moon student with mediocre healing abilities, who is returning to Aldryn College after a tragedy the semester before killed several of her classmates. We also follow Baz, an Eclipse student with the ability to control time, whose sister was part of the tragedy. When one of students who had been presumably swept out to Sea, is returned to shore, only to die a horrible death, Emory discovers she has powers no healer should have. Baz is the only one who knows, and was able to keep Emory's powers from going out of control. Not only do we have a magic school, we get a secret society, a magical prison with a jailbreak, scholarly obsession, and a portal to another world. I do wish we had gotten more world-building. We get a bit about the discrimination that Eclipse-born endure as well as the exploitation at the hands of the Institute Regulators. I pretty much guessed all the twists not far into the book, but it was still enjoyable. I did find Emory to be a bit annoying, and she treated Baz like crap, when he deserves better. I completely ship Baz and Kai, so I really hope that happens in the next book instead of him ending up with Emory. I wanted to love this book, although I enjoyed it, it still fell a little flat in a way I can't really articulate. It could just be because it's a debut book. Looking forward to book 2!
5886432928	"Curious Tides" delves into the intriguing world of Aldryn College for Lunar Magics, where Emory, a student with middling healing abilities, discovers newfound, inexplicable powers following a tragic incident. When her classmates perish under mysterious circumstances, she becomes the lone survivor, grappling with abilities that could jeopardize her life if exposed. Emory’s quest for control over her abilities leads her to Baz, a reclusive student well-versed in her new-found powers, and seeking answers about his sister's death—Emory's closest friend. Emory's world is complicated even more by her investigation into a secret society possibly linked to the deaths.The novel thrives on its intricate magic system, uniquely tied to lunar phases and birth dates. The complexities of the moon-based abilities and the societal hierarchy add depth to the narrative, contributing to the allure of the dark academia atmosphere. The characters are compelling, each with their own secrets and motivations. Emory's determination to uncover the truth, coupled with Baz's enigmatic history, propels the narrative forward, keeping readers engaged and invested.Despite the novel’s strengths, pacing intermittently falters, leading to slower moments that dilute the overall momentum. Some sections might feel drawn-out, impacting the narrative's flow and intensity.However, Lacelle's narrative promises a broader, more expansive world in subsequent installments. The novel concludes with an enticing setup for the sequel, hinting at a deeper exploration of the world and its secrets. Overall, this is a captivating dark academia tale, brimming with tantalizing mysteries.
6766104915	I am SO GLAD this Tide’s-damned book is OVER omg I don’t usually hate-finish boring books but I was over 50% in and realized it wasn’t working for me but I didn’t want to lose THAT MUCH READING TIME with nothing to show for it in my book count so I sped read/skimmed the 2nd half. Literally so boring, so awash in the imagery of tides and water and moons I myself now feel like a bloated corpse, SO wordy and overdone. Why use one sentence to say something when you can use 5 paragraphs? SO MANY FLASHBACKS. To the same like 3 events. Make it stop!!! The romance (dullllllllllllll) is like bad manga level with how much it draws out every little moment. The whole book was so descriptive and yet at the same time I can’t visualize… any of it? It had no sense of place? All the descriptions were just of how people were feeling.Emory is the worst character omg literally no redeeming quality to her or desire to read about her, she’s like a black hole. Manipulative, pathetic, mediocre, indecisive, insecure, terrible judgment, it’s not even fun. I will say the cover is absolutely gorgeous and what drew me in in the first place. This book is definitely for someone who wants to be REALLY immersed in lore and minutiae and the dark academic vibe but it was NOT for me.
7389727267	✨DNF at 20%✨✨HOW DARE THIS BOOK!✨✨SPOILERS✨TIME TO RANT.I wanted this book to be sooOOOoooOOoo good!✨the cover is so beautiful✨magic system could have cooked✨this book could have cooked.pros:✨Dark Acadamia Vibe✨The MAGIC system.✨Moon VibeCONS:1st: OKAY FIRST OF ALL-was Baz gay-straight-bisexual- bc wtf was happening. ONE MOMENt he was simping over his Collasped friend in an Institute. The next he was talking about how scared he was of intimacy. THE next he was saying how much he wanted to be more then friends with FMC. I can't2nd. It is 500 pages too long in my opinion.3rd. Nothing about-Emory supposed "grief" was believable. She obviously was jealous that her friend and other friends. and couldn't handle that and like killed them all in the stupid caves. And her whole personality was FORCED, and SO ANNOYING.I TRIED SO HARD I SWEAR I REALLY DIDD!!!THIS DUMB BOOK FAILED ME.(or maybe I am too impatient right now and need something fast paced.)Anyways. uhm. hope ya'll have a good day. Also don't read this book.
5903919808	start on: 6.17.25end on: 6.22.25‎‧₊˚✧final review✧˚₊‧‧₊˚🖇️✩₊housekeeping˚🎧⊹♡ ༘₊·꒰➳ possible minor spoilers༘₊·꒰➳ no quotes cuz i borrowed this from the library🫧𓇼𓏲rest of review✩‧₊˚🎐༘₊· ͟͟͞͞꒰➳ genre: YA Fantasy༘₊· ͟͟͞͞꒰➳ what to expect + content warnings + age rating➳ 3rd person past tense➳ dual pov with some other interspersed povs➳ mystery➳ childhood friends to lovers (???)➳ best friend’s brother (???)➳ magic sourced by the moon༘₊· ͟͟͞͞꒰➳★★★༘₊· ͟͟͞͞꒰➳ 0.5/5 (spice rating)༘₊· ͟͟͞͞꒰➳ 1/5 (fluff rating)「 ✦Curious Tides✦ 」(noun) curiously beautifulSay Don’t Go - Taylor Swift↻ ◁ II ▷ ↺ 1:35 ───ㅇ───── 3:47 ❝Oh no, Oh no, I’m unarmed❞☁️ . . . ⇢ ˗ˏˋ overall thoughts I dont even know what to say about this book it took me a long time to even decide on my rating like it was so good and i was screaming but at the same time it wasn’t that good?? Idk i was reading this in a restaurant in quebec trying to speak french it was a whole thing (i realized pascale lacelle is french-canadian right after tho so that was cool). I was blown away by this book overall but there were some things that frustrated me so I’m very excited to talk about it.˚˖ᡣ𐭩🌷͙֒✧˚.🎀༘⋆ writing stylePls the writing style was kind of regular but the formatting was so amazing. The little excerpts from Song of Drowned Gods were so cute and so smart because they gave us so much insight into the world. When it came to regular-issue chapters, there wasn’t that much substance or emotion to the writing but it was still beautifully done. ♡₊˚ 🦢・₊ ♪ ✧ plotFuck me sideways because my brain HURT this entire book and my heart was beating so anxiously cuz lowk I was just fucking confused. Idek how to describe everything that happened. The pacing was very interesting because sometimes it was like nothing was happening and then boom suddenly something was happening, but all that stuff kind of came out of nowhere. I felt like the plot branched out in a million different ways that were almost completely random but somehow tied back to everything. I have to remind myself whenever I think of something they did like I have to remind myself why they did and because there was so much going on it takes a minute to remember but its amazingggg trust me.✧˖*°࿐ world buildingThis is some of the most genius, beautiful worldbuilding i’ve ever read 😭 no cuz wdym everything revolves around the moon and there’s travel between worlds and dont even get me STARTED on the dreamscape okay ts is so fucking cool and gorgeous make me a dreamer please 😭 On the flip side, ts is also terrifying?? I knew from the minute they mentioned somewhere called the “institute” that shit was gonna be fucked up, but THIS?? Ahhh i was so terrified but so blown away by how lacelle handled it.The plot twist about eclipse magic>>> bro i really think being an eclipse-born would be sooo cool and i feel bad for all the eclipse born and ts is just so fucked up and makes me so sad.˖◛⁺⑅♡main romance♡⑅⁺◛˖Guys. i know its fairly evident just from the synopsis that baz and emory are going to end up together. But I just can’t get behind it. To me they’re much better as friends, and I also think Baz deserves someone better than Emory. I really hated how she was using and manipulating him and how fucked up that was and I just don’t think that under any circumstances should they end up together (they also had like 0 chemistry)୭ 🧷 ✧ ˚. ᵎᵎ 🎀 friendships/other relationshipsListen up yall. There’s always a portion of my reviews where I get really heated, and well, here it fucking is. For two fucking reasons. First of all, Romie? Literal ass-cheeks of a friend. She did so much shit that is just so inexcusable to me and I know that in the end (view spoiler)[she grew close with Nisha cuz they were more than friends (hide spoiler)] but everything else?? Romie sneaking off, not telling Emory anything...I mean, yall are supposed to be BEST. FRIENDS. It just makes me sick when friends do stuff like that and it makes me really sad. If it were me, I would’ve told Emory the MINUTE I found out about anything. On the flip side…Baz and Kai. BAZ. AND. KAI. 😭 if these two don’t end up together by the end of the trilogy I will literally throw a hissy fit. They have 10x the chemistry of Emory and Baz and they’re also the 2 best characters so naturally they have to end up together, it’s just the way of things. ➶-͙˚ ༘✶ charactersMain Characters 「 ✦Emory✦ 」ion remember her last name. she was…interesting. The other Emory i read about this month, she was a pushover. This Emory wasn’t. She was shy, but she took what she wanted, which I liked. But she was always talking about Romie, Romie this Romie that, when in reality, Romie wasn’t that great! I didn’t like how she was manipulating Baz while simultaneously failing to realize that (view spoiler)[she was being manipulated by Kieran (hide spoiler)], and she really needed to open her eyes. Her magic is super cool tho.༘₊·꒰➳relatability?[■□□□□□□□□□] 10% ༘₊·꒰➳how much i liked them5/10Main Characters 「 ✦Basil “Baz” Brysden✦ 」PLS THIS BOY. Like hear me out yall!! He was so sweet and we love a good scholar! I felt so bad for him cuz he was constantly worried about collapsing and then always confused when he used a lot of magic and didn’t collapse. He did NOT deserve to be used by Emory like that at ALL it was really sad to watch. I love his magic and I love him and i NEED more of him in Stranger Skies.༘₊·꒰➳relatability?[■■■■■□□□□□] 50% ༘₊·꒰➳how much i liked them9/10Side Character「 ✦Kai✦ 」did he have a last name?? Now THIS RIGHT HERE. THIS MAN. BEST CHARACTER. Im not even simping okay im simping a little but srsly hes so cool and chill and like terrifying but in a hot way?? Like i cant even explain it but i love him and i need more of him too pleaseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee‧͙⁺˚*･༓☾ favoritesˋ°•*⁀➷ favorite characters ༘₊·꒰➳ kai easilyˋ°•*⁀➷favorite scene ༘₊·꒰➳ the scene where emory was talking about her type with kai (iykyk)✩₊˚☾⋆⁺₊✧ final thoughtsThis was pretty good, but not the best thing i’ve ever read! I ordered it and stranger skies immediately after finishing tho so that should be fun⋆.ೃ࿔*: please comment or pm me if I missed anything, especially tropes!♫₊˚.🎧 ✩｡ playlist ༘₊·꒰➳ Neptune - Sleeping At Last ༘₊·꒰➳ The Black Dog - Taylor Swift ༘₊·꒰➳ Little Freak - Harry Styles↶*ೃ✧˚.❃ ↷ˊ- full playlist: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2my...*note: playlist not mineʚɞ˚ ༘♡ ⋆｡˚ with love, audrey (specialize per book if possible)ﮩ٨ـﮩﮩ٨ـ♡ﮩ٨ـﮩﮩ٨ـ‎‧₊˚✧pre-read✧˚₊‧what the FUCK?? okay I'm ordering this and book 2 right the fuck now because WHAT?? rtc‎‧₊˚✧pre-read✧˚₊‧okay the covers flipping gorgeous !! sooo excited for this one.
6058331276	** spoiler alert ** 3.5Started off strong but dragged on for a few hundred pages more than it needed to be. I really loved the world-building and characters. As for the romance, I hope that there's a poly romance between Emory, Baz, and Kai because Baz and Kai are so cute together and if Emory is to end up with Baz I can't bear to see him without his true love. It also seems that all three have great chemistry with each other! Overall, I can't wait for the next book as this was a great dark academia story.
5873595906	"But the gods could not be vanquished, and in the end his naivety led the other heroes and himself to their doom." Curious Tides is the beginning of a moody YA dark academia fantasy series featuring moon with magic based on the moon! In a world where your lunar phase of birth determines your magical prowess and when you can use them - the best study and hone their craft at magical schools.Unlike the rest, those born during an eclipse are able to use their powers regardless of the lunar cycle which makes them both feared and hated by the rest of the world. They are branded as dangerous as their "unmaking" aka using too much power causes blows outs around them, killing those around her.Meet our two MC's respectably - Emory a healer, Baz is eclipse born and able to control time itself. The book opens with the start of a new year where Emory is reeling from the death of Romie, her best friend and Baz's sister after a ritual in the caves ends with eight of the most promising students dead. But Emory has a secret - she was there too. And now a new magic seems to be alive in her veins too - magic that she shouldn't have access to under her birthright.Out of options - Emory chases down leads for Romie's death with a secret society headed by the school's golden boy that she can't seem to stop thinking about. She's also got lessons with Baz to try to control her new found powers. But when the bodies of the dead students start showing up alive before dying again in gruesome ways, and her dreams are being haunted by Romie herself, time seems to be running out.Baz has his own internal demons to fight with. After his own father unmaking, he was taken into custody at "the Institute" a place where Eclipse born are caged by dampers to keep their powers locked, leaving Baz scared to ever use his powers besides short bursts. But rumors are flying that it's not just a jail but also where illegal testing is being done on them. When the only other Eclipse born, and his friend Kai is taken - he decides to investigate the rumors himself.Lacelle knows how to FILL a book with plot. This thing was 500+ pages and every single chapter was needed. Truly a fully fleshed out magic system and setting was unravelled beautifully over the chapters alongside the character's actual development. Emory and Baz have such a strong slow burn, he falls first which is my FAVORITE trope. This book left me on such a cliffhanger and I can't wait to read book 2.rep// bi MC, queernormative cast and settingcw// death, violence, gore, grief, murder, branding, body horror, panic attacks, anxiety, depression, drowning, bloodletting, self-harm, magical substance abuse, magical asylum, institutionalisationFind me on: instagram | tiktokThank you to the publisher for sending me this ARC in exchange for an honest review.
7570979291	O taką Dark Academię nic nie robiłam, ale właśnie takiej poszukiwałam. Nie wiem jaką syntetyczną magię zażywała autorka, ale też bym trochę chciała.Od razu zaznaczę, że nie polubiłam tych bohaterów. Emory tak bardzo chce przynależeć i się wykazać, że jest tym zaślepiona i naiwna. Jednocześnie nie ma skrupułów, by wykorzystywać innych. Baz z kolei jest boleśnie bierny. Aż ma się ochotę dźgnąć go kijem, żeby sprawdzić czy zareaguje. Ale przy tym wszystkim mam wrażenie, że taka kreacja nie była przypadkowa i autorka pozwoliła swoim postaciom na błądzenie, aby rozwijać je w kolejnych tomach, na co ogromnie liczę. 5 gwiazdek poszło za to, co tu się fabularnie działo. Ależ to jest super zbudowany świat: magia lunarna, jej ograniczenia i złożoność, tajne stowarzyszenia zahaczające o sekciarstwo, zagadki do rozwiązania, mitologia, która przedostaje się do świata bohaterów. Lubię bardzo ten motyw, kiedy w książce mamy fragmenty innej książki do interpretacji. Jedyne, czego chciałabym więcej to jakieś zajęcia na tej akademii - chciałabym wiedzieć, czego uczą się tam studenci. No a już moim absolutnie ulubionym wątkiem był Kolaps (nomen omen słowo, którego nie mogę zapamiętać). Klimat, estetyka i przewijająca się symbolika są cudowne, czytając widziałam film w swojej głowie i muszę poszukać jakiś fajnych artów symboli tych czterech domów. Oby drugi tom wyszedł szybko.
7273317040	Reseña completa: https://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com/20...Aunque Emory estudia en la prestigiosa academia de magia lunar, sus habilidades curativas siempre han sido mediocres, o así eran hasta que una noche, un grupo de alumnos murió en las cuevas marinas de Dovermere y ella fue la única superviviente; desde entonces, comenzó a desarrollar unos extraños poderes que nadie debería poseer, y que debe mantener en secreto. Para controlarlos, pide ayuda a Baz, quien conoce bien esa magia especial, y cuya hermana, mejor amiga de Emory, falleció en las cuevas, mientras intenta desvelar la verdad que se esconde tras las muertes de tantos estudiantes. Así, se verá envuelta en una sociedad secreta, y un mundo de secretos, magia e intrigas. Bueno, pues me ha flipado de principio a fin: el worldbuilding es de lo más genial, pasando por todos los aspectos de la sociedad, de la academia, de la magia y de la Historia, incluso con su propia mitología, ¡ha sido genial! Además te lo presenta de una forma muy amena, integrado en la trama. Asimismo, los personajes protagonistas me han gustado mucho: siento que nos los ha presentado perfectamente, profundizando en ellos hasta llegar a conocerlos por completo, tanto a Emory (quien reconozco que me ha frustrado un poco, con eso de que el fin justifica los medios), como a Baz, mi favorito. Y la relación entre ellos, o con los secundiarios... buf, es que todo está muy bien hilado.
6270408468	4.85⭐️This was such a magical bookIt starts off with Emory being the only survivor of a tragic drowning accident at the end of the school year, taking her best friend away from her. But then her powers start manifesting differently than they did before, and suddenly her drowned classmates are washing ashore four months later. The only thing keeping it from a full 5 stars is the fact that the whole book I was screaming to Emory and Baz to just freaking TALK TO EACH OTHERBut then I guess the book would’ve been 200 pages shorter so I get itSeriously though this is such a unique world and magic system, your powers and House are tied to whatever moon phase you were born under and I’ve never read anything like that. The writing was lovely, whimsical and captivating. I read almost this entire book in one single sitting. It’s got boarding school, secret society, moon magic, what else could you want??If you like Ninth House, Legendborn, Hogwarts Legacy, the god aspects from Divine Rivals, the Danika/Bryce friendship from Crescent City, then you would also eat this up.
7451458829	5/10System magiczna oparty na fazach księżyca bardzo ciekawy i nowy, jednak mam wrażenie że za dużo trochę się działo informacyjnie i fabuła na tym utraciła Momentami nie działo się nic i kręciliśmy się w kółko Baz naprawdę polepszył tą książkę bo jakbym miała tylko rozdziały z perspektywy Emory to mogłoby się zakończyć DNF - FMC miała kompleks bycia przeciętna co bardzo męczyło całą książkę
5711297389	jaw dropped to the floor. everything you could want in a book: magic boarding school. secret societies. immersive world building. give me the next one immediately!!!!
7712198816	ocena: 4,5/5⭐️Ta książka to jedna z tych, które sprawiły, że kiedy już weszłam w ten świat, to nie chciałam z niego wychodzić.Autorka pisze naprawdę pięknym językiem. Styl jest klimatyczny, nieco poetycki, ale nieprzekombinowany. Czułam się, jakbym m wędrowała z bohaterami przez mgłę, morską pianę i stare mury księżycowej akademii. Świat przedstawiony? Cudo! Księżycowa magia, tajemnicze stowarzyszenie, zaginieni uczniowie i coś złowrogiego czającego się tuż pod powierzchnią – może brzmieć jak zbyt wiele, ale wszystko się dopełnia. Widać, że świat jest dopracowany, a system magii naprawdę dobrze przemyślany.Ciężko mi się było w tę książkę „wgryźć”. Nie od razu złapałam rytm, a klimat budował się stopniowo, bez wyraźnych punktów zaczepienia. Momentami miałam wrażenie, że błądzę razem z bohaterami. To chyba jedna z tych książek, które potrzebują przestrzeni i cierpliwości – ale kiedy się już zanurzysz, trudno się z niej wyplątać.Co do bohaterów – głównie Emory i Baz’a – są dobrze napisani, naturalni, pełni emocji. Są też bohaterami z przeszłością, która boli, ponieważ najbliższa im osoba (siostra Baz’a i za razem najlepsza przyjaciółka Emory) nie żyje. To oczywiście sprawia, że ich relacja nie jest prosta, a pełna napięcia i niedopowiedzeń. Czasem miałam ochotę potrząsnąć nimi za niektóre ich decyzje… ale to dowodzi jak ich emocje były autentyczne i przejmujące.Wątek romantyczny był tutaj obecny, ale bardzo delikatny i absolutnie nieprzytłaczający – i właśnie to mi się w nim podobało. Był subtelny, naturalny i dobrze wkomponowany w resztę historii, bez dominowania nad główną fabułą.Motyw „dark academia” tutaj świetnie pasuje. Ta tajemnicza szkoła, chęć władzy, zazdrość i zagadki tworzą intrygujący i mroczny klimat, który doskonale uzupełnia całą historię.Nie jest to mój ulubieniec wszech czasów, ale ten klimat, język i pomysł robią na mnie naprawdę duże wrażenie. Do tego ta okładka i brzegi książki - trzeba przyznać - są CUDOWNE!To coś dla tych, którzy lubią magiczne światy, tajemnice i książki, które się czuje, a nie tylko „czyta”. 🌙[wspolpraca z uroboros]
5964913030	The tides are indeed curious(sequel is coming in November!!)So I got very invested in this one and read it pretty fast. It was good!In the beginning it tended to over-repeat some worldbuilding stuff because it is so necessary to understanding the plot, but since I got it on the first or second time I was like bleh though it wasn't that bad and does go away.Very LGBTQ friendly! Lots of casual queer representation without it being like hello nice to meet you I'm gay, naming sexual identities and phobia of said identities didn't happen, it was just normal and didn't feel the need to be explained.The magic in my opinion is very cool, I love it when books have a fleshed-out magic system and how it works. There are lunar alignments and their powers get stronger during their section of the moon's cycle. There are so many different types of powers (alignments)! However, they only work during that moon cycle, and they need "bloodletting" to access their powers outside of it, which gets into the TW-not-TW I'll explain a bit at the end. It takes place at a magical college and some kids (including MC's BFF) drowned at some nearby caves the previous year. But something SpoOooOOooky happened and did they just drown? MAGIC happened ig, read it and find out. I liked it it was fun.There were love triangles and boy oh boy at times was I like JESUS CHRIST YOU CANT BE DOING THAT TO THE POOR GUY HELLO so that probably means it was goodand let me just say, the GALL of that book to have an EPILOGUE AT THE END???? rudeAlso I can't 100% decide if this goes on my favorites bookshelf or not. Like it isn't quite there but it was pretty good, so maybe I'll add it anyways.Ok so tw/cw stuff below, there isn't too much?(view spoiler)[So the whole bloodletting thing is basically self harm in practice but it isn't treated like that, like it isn't a mentally bad thing or emotional at all.Also, drowningThat should be it? For big things at least. (hide spoiler)]
5619462314	Stunning. This is a book I'll be swept away by time and time again.Damn it, this was incredible. Lacelle invites us to the lushly aesthetic Aldryn College for Lunar Magics and delivers a fascinating magic system, compelling mysteries, and a cast of achingly relatable characters. We follow Emory, the only survivor of a tragic night that drowned eight of her classmates. Left with unexplainable magic powers, she seeks the help of Baz, a scholarly recluse with the power to manipulate time (who I would like to declare my undying love for, thanks). But Emory's also being drawn into a cult-like secret society headed by oh-so-alluring golden boy Kieran (who has the perfect dash of Darkling vibes). And when supposedly drowned students start washing up on the shore... Well, hold on tight. It's about to go down. Funnily enough, reading this book feels like drowning—in the best possible way. Lacelle's world will grip you like a receding tide, and you'll be left gasping for breath. You know that magical feeling when you find a book that feels like it was written for you? I have no doubt Curious Tides will create that feeling for so many readers. If you like The Starless Sea or Ninth House and you're a fan of seaside settings, secret societies and magical schools, you don't want to miss this one. Thanks Simon & Schuster for the ARC! And sorry for the ocean puns.
5380932623	I feel like Curious Tides will be a book that won’t be for everyone BUT for the right audience it will be a big hit! I really enjoyed it, especially knowing this was a debut it truly was impressive! This book is set in an academy for different kinds of tide magic. I loved how the lunar cycle and the ocean played a role in how the music was used. I think it was really unique and made this book stand out from the crowd of other dark academia books. There is a tragic mystery that takes place and I loved putting together the pieces to figure out what really happened. Even in its predictably(not a bad thing)….the author always took a unique route to get there and there were some reveals that truly took me by surprise. There are two POVs and I fell in love with Baz as a character. Throw in a love triangle, cultish vibes, shifting alliances and you’ve got yourself one unique story that in my opinion is worth the read. The writing was gorgeous and the characters kept getting better. I love when an author creates imperfect characters and situations that just make sense and this was executed really well here. I will definitely be reading book 2 and can’t wait to see where she takes these characters next! If you like slower paced, beautiful writing and unique magic systems…pick this one up!*audio is 5 stars
6564676583	** spoiler alert ** J’avais beaucoup d’attentes pour ce livre puisque le système de magie avec les phases lunaires m’intriguait beaucoup ! Et bah je n’ai pas été déçue.Je n’ai pas trouvé le worldbuilding trop complexe, mais pour autant, il était bien écrit et très intéressant.Les personnages sont assez bien développés, j’ai adoré Emory. Même si on les voit peu ensemble, la relation amicale entre Romie et Emory est belle.La plume de l’autrice est incroyable, presque poétique parfois, il y a de jolies phrases.Petit + pour l’inclusion dans le livre !Pitié Kai et Baz mettez vous ensemble 😩😩 Hâte de découvrir la suite !!4,5/5 ⭐️
5908612903	**Content Warnings at the Bottom**This was an impulse purchase. I went into my local indie bookstore to get a little treat, but I didn’t have a specific book in mind. The cover caught my attention immediately, but after reading the description I thought this story would be right up my alley. Luckily, I was correct. While I can see why some people DNF’ed or gave this book a low rating, I enjoyed the world that Lacelle created and how the story slowly unfolded around Emory and Baz. If you are interested in a fast-paced novel, this will not be for you, but if you like world-building and character studies, I think you should give it a try. Curious Tides is told in duel POV between Emory Ainslef and Basil Brysden, both students at Aldryn College for Lunar Magics, who are returning after a tragedy that claimed Emory’s best friend and Basil’s sister, Rosemary Brysden, the spring before. Emory’s healing magic feels different and she is sure that there is a reason behind why her friend was in Dovermere in the first place, a cave that is known for being dangerous. However, as Emory digs deeper into the mystery, she finds out that she did not leave Dovermere unchanged and her magic that was mediocre before now is something extraordinary. She will need Baz’s help to keep her new magical powers secret while also learning how to infiltrate the secret society that Romie had become a part of. When students believed to be dead start showing up on the beach, it becomes harder for Emory to hide what she is and the time is running out to figure out what happened to Romie. Can Emory keep her forbidden magic hidden and her heart intact while Baz fights against his fear of losing control of his magic and ending up locked up like his father?This is a very slow-moving book in terms of plot. There is a lot of information and exciting events at the very beginning of the novel and the last 150 pages are action-packed, but the middle of the novel is more character than plot-focused. That isn’t a problem for me because I enjoy character work, but I can see why a lot of people DNF’d the book. I loved taking time throughout the semester with Emory and Baz, learning how the magic in this world operated and the college itself. There is also the secondary plot of what is happening with the Eclipse-born magic users at the Institute, which I enjoyed being woven into everything that is happening with Emory. I enjoyed the plot at the heart of his novel, but this book would be a lot shorter if it had been the main focus of the novel. I am obsessed with Aldryn College for Lunar Magics, where we spend most of the time in this novel. Every description that was given for the different libraries, especially the Waxing Moon library, I was eating up with a spoon. The different skills that each moon phase gave the magic users were rich and descriptive. It is obvious that Lacelle put a lot of thought into this world and how every part of it operated. The creation story with the different phases of the moon and the Shadow along with the tale of The Drowned Gods, all of it made the world feel very real and rich. I would have liked to see more of the world outside of the school, but with so much already happening in the novel it would have been a bit too much. Emory is an interesting main character because she starts as a typical YA protagonist, a wallflower who finds out that she is the specialist girl to ever special. I think what stops her from being annoying is her determination to find out what happened to Romie and do what she needs to do to find out. There is a lot of guilt and doubt that is portrayed well in my opinion. Emory transforms from a girl who is always in her best friend's shadow to learning how to deal with people wanting something from her, for better or worse. While I liked her as a character, I found Baz a lot more interesting in complex. Basil Brysden is the only member of the Elipse House after the other student, Kai, collapsed the semester before. Baz has been shunned because of his Elipse magic since he was a child, but even more so when his father Collapsed and killed three other people when it happened. Since then, Baz has been scared to use his magic and is interested in becoming a professor to help other Elipse-born live without the fear of Collapsing. Throughout the novel, however, Baz goes from being a scared and timid man into someone taking control of his power and his life. While Emory’s POV was usually pushing the plot forward, I enjoyed every time I was in Baz’s POV. The romance in this novel is interesting because I wouldn’t consider it a love triangle because Emory very clearly wants Kierian, but what is going on between her and Baz is interesting and complex. While Kierian’s romance took the beats that you would expect from it and a mysterious man in a mysterious society, I did enjoy experiencing the excitement of that relationship with Emory. However, her relationship with Baz went from using him to teaching her, then being friends, then possibly being more and I am not sure if I want them to end up together or not. While I would love Baz and Emory to be together, I really enjoy the dynamic between Baz and Kai. As the series continues it will be interesting to see how this complex web works out in the end. Overall, I really enjoyed my time with this novel, but I can see how it might not be for everyone. You need to expect to take the time to settle into the world and the characters or you will find this slow-paced and boring. With how this novel ended I will especially be picking up the second novel to see where Lacelle takes this story. A 4 star read. **Content Warnings**Death, Blood, Grief, Toxic relationship, Body horror, Self harm, Sexual content, Vomit, Death of parent
