4388263004	welcome to...the A(UGUST)ENEID.i know this is my worst title / month pun ever. i know it's actually not even really a pun. but in my defense, august does not lend itself to any of the classics i have interest in. so there.anyway. welcome back to PROJECT LONG CLASSICS, in which i read an intimidating paragon of literature divvied up in nice little chunks over the course of a month in order to get through it.this one is perfectly timed: it's summertime, and you know what that means. time to pick which impressive books i'll read outside so people think i'm smart.BOOK ONE, PART ONEthe aeneid divides itself into 12 scary "books," so i'm going to divide those into less-scary halves. just as virgil intended i'm sure.not dido gathering hateful men, loaded-up ships, and ancient treasure to strike out on her own...kinda the original girlboss.BOOK ONE, PART TWOaeneas living my dream here: overhearing a bunch of people talking about you and they're only saying really nice things.BOOK TWO, PART ONEdamn. imagine opening up your whole hometown and throwing a huge party to celebrate your invitees only for them to spend the whole time trauma dumping. pretty bad vibes all around.BOOK TWO, PART TWOit's been said before, but...how cool to be so hot that your very existence causes a war among two great powers. helen was really innovating in the conflict space.BOOK THREE, PART ONEaeneas has been through some sh*t, but honestly nothing has rattled me as bad as him cutting a tree and the tree bleeding and then speaking in his dead friend's voice. that'll give you nightmares.BOOK THREE, PART TWOi'm going to go ahead and say it: this book has too many names in it. and more than that, too many of them start with A.BOOK FOUR, PART ONEloving that this one is titled dido. i'm ready to bow down and swear loyalty over one party planning description alone, so i can't wait for what this is all about.BOOK FOUR, PART TWOanna is so real for this. if my sister killed herself my first reaction would also be "without me?"hard to wrap my mind around the fact that we are like a quarter of the way through this book and yet it holds nothing for me anymore.BOOK FIVE, PART ONEdido just set herself on fire and meanwhile aeneas and his friends are hanging out doing boat races.men are trash.BOOK FIVE, PART TWOthis morning i went for a run with my fiancé (i contain multitudes) and it started torrentially raining, so of course we both did our finest aeneas impression and beseeched the sky like "I HAVE DONE ALL YOU ASK! WHY HAVE YOU FORSAKEN ME, JUPITER?"all of which is to say, i wish there were a group of meddling gods i could blame my every inconvenience on.BOOK SIX, PART ONEthe events of this book are interesting because like...the death count is high and yet i wouldn't say much is happening.thank you to virgil, who somehow sensed my complaint thousands of years in the future and therefore took us on a field trip to the underworld.BOOK SIX, PART TWOdante was a way better world-of-death hang than aeneas, i'll say that. all this guy ever wants to do is shout names in a state of great emotion and immediately move on.BOOK SEVEN, PART ONEeven half-god war heroes with queen exes have to deal with meddling parents.BOOK SEVEN, PART TWOwe interrupt this battle scene for virgil to describe someone as the second-hottest guy on record, and make a quick note that he therefore deserves a better father. sure!BOOK EIGHT, PART ONEthis book is titled "aeneas in rome." as the saying goes. we can only hope for a mary kate and ashley-esque ride-on-the-back-of-a-vespa romance for our hero.BOOK EIGHT, PART TWOwell, aeneas didn't get a whirlwind italian romance with a guy who makes homemade pasta, but he did acquire 400 horses. maybe that's comparable.BOOK NINE, PART ONEnow we're getting into some iliad-esque gruesome and unforgettable violence montages.BOOK NINE, PART TWOi don't feel like i'm not enjoying this book, but also there has never been a single day that i've remembered to do this organically. which is the excuse i'm giving you for why i've taken 7 days off in total.anyway, back to the important stuff: can you imagine how humiliating it would be to die by slingshot wound.BOOK TEN, PART ONEaeneas really has to learn to delegate. why is my guy staying up all night just to sail a ship. ugh, now he's doing hand to hand combat. will he ever learn.BOOK TEN, PART TWOin this section, all of the bad guys are saying badass stuff like "no one else fight the scariest enemy. he's mine. my only regret is that his own father cannot witness me take him down," meanwhile aeneas is being a really bad sport in terms of killing. not loving that he's our main guy. a lot of this just kind of drives home that aeneas/pallas is no achilles/patroclus.BOOK ELEVEN, PART ONEimagine you're fighting in aeneas' war and you die and your spirit is still lingering by the battlefront only to see him give his bff a full funeral and ignore all the other corpses. come on, dude. you're hurting countless ghost feelings.BOOK ELEVEN, PART TWOthings are finally looking up. the amazonian girlbosses have arrived.NOOOOO!!! NOT THE GIRLBOSSES!BOOK TWELVE, PART ONEthe last chapter but the penultimate part of this project. it is actually electrifying how consistently the chapters of this book have been 24 pages long. come hell or high water or amazonian girl mob or ex-gf su*cide, i know i'm reading 12 pages a day.at one point in this a guy says "i swear by this scepter" and virgil interrupts his dialogue to be like "(he was holding a scepter at that point)". virgil i swear to god. what are we even doing here.BOOK TWELVE, PART TWOwhy are all the bad b*tches killing themselves!!!OVERALLpray for my boy virgil. he's not sick or anything he'll just forever be known as a worse version of homerin many ways this is a great book. it's stood the test of 2,000 years for a reason. and if it were being compared to anything except the odyssey and/or the iliad it would probably rock. but unfortunately for virgil, neither epic was lost to time, and they both put this one to shame. aeneas is no achilles, pallas no patroclus, turnus no hector, lavinia no helen. i had a fun time making jokes but i wish i chose to do "THE AUGDYSSEY" instead.rating: 3
3444930759	Impossible to rank a book that is so important, that has so many problems, that holds moments of deep and beautiful simile and metaphor, that treats its lead with shocking inconsistency, whose ending is an eruption of modern plot that redeems the whole book.The Ferry translation is quick and good and worth noting.There is staggering overlap with The Iliad and the Odyssey throughout- Cyclops and Scylla and Charybdis were surprises here, as is the rip off of the in media res structure. We have storms (Poseidon as savior, instead of tormentor was an interesting twist), a separation of forces, a host. But everything seems condensed .Dido, as you might hope, pops off the page. That amazing section on page 17 that scans over her dead husband was so unbelievably Hamlet, and there was something tragic about Cupid's bewitching her:"And Cupid, to please his Acidalian mother,Begins, little by little, to eraseFrom Dido's mind the image of Sychaeus,And to substitute a living passion inA heart and soul long unaccustomed to love." (33)But as with the windmills in Don Quixote, she is too quickly gone.The Roman propaganda is interesting throughout but in some ways, it is less pronounced than I would have thought, save for one outrageous description of a piece of armor. It put me in mind of just Grossman's Stalingrad (it's great). To get it by the Soviet censors he had to (among many other things) add a 40 page section about how heroic coal miners are - and I ended up fascinated by that section, in its lack of nuance and its propulsion, in how a talented writer operates in restrictive systems.The second half, in Italy, is a more human-oriented text, and somewhat ridiculous. The book's supporting characters, especially the lovers Nisus and Euryalus, are stronger than the lead. The book is rarely a page turner, but it is incredibly worth your time. It is very, very different than you might expect.Two things: The treatment of the underworld is gorgeous, in Book 6. It is, of course, Dantean pre Dante. Critic Madeline Miller points out that "when Aeneid is in hell, after he finishes admiring that same glorious pageant of future Roman heroes, he finds himself before two gates. One is made of horn and is, Virgil tells us, for “true shades.” The other, made of ivory, is for “false dreams.” And Aeneas, founder of the gleaming vision of Roman history we have just seen, leaves through the latter."Borges was preoccupied by this distinction too, and I wonder if there are some hints here of the undermining that I feel is at work in The Aeneid some impulse to attack the very root of the project, of fiction, of the need for Roman propaganda in a poem, even of the need for empire and cultural assimilation.Which brings me to the ending. I'll spoiler tag. (view spoiler)[The ending, those last few lines, are of course the most shocking of all, subversive and bizarre. I've been thinking about them for days, and reading some supplementary material to try to make sense of them. Even if Aeneas had granted Turnus mercy, the book ending w/o a coda would have felt abrupt, but the sudden heat for vengeance for Pallas (reminiscent of Achilles and Hector) jarred me. Pallas doesn't feel important enough a character to warrant this kind of ending - I don't know - but it felt authentic to Aeneas. Sometimes in writing, when things are going well, the character moves organically. They do something they're not supposed to. I know that this turn is set-up earlier in The Aeneid, but it still felt like an extremely organic moment. We've been questioning Aeneas's character throughout the book - his treatment of Dido, his mood-swings. Again, here, at the end, he is back in Troy. A legacy of war and pain. Does this ending redeem the Aeneid as a whole for me? In some ways, yes, because it redeems a lot of my misgivings. The ending seems to privilege fate above all else, like a tautology. Turnus has to die, so Aeneas has to kill him, and even if Turnus begs for mercy, it won't matter. Can I even go postmodern for a second? Because fate is privileged above god and man, Turnus has to die for the Aeneid to end. And the second he dies: fade to black. (hide spoiler)]
24616393	There are plenty of reviews here telling you why you should or shouldn't read book X. This review of Virgil's "Aeneid," the largely-completed first century BC nationalist epic poem that recounts the Trojan War and Aeneas's role in the eventual founding of Rome, will tell you instead why you should read a copy of "Aeneid" from a university library. Simply put: student annotations. Nearly every book in a university catalog has been checked out at one time or another by a student reading it as primary or supplemental material for class. Thus, many books have important passages underlined, major themes listed at the beginnings of chapters, and clarifications written in the margins. The copy of "Aeneid" that I read not only contained thematic annotations from one student, but also a number of unintentionally funny comments from another. This made reading the epic poem, the sort of which spends five pages describing Aeneas's shield, much more entertaining than it might have otherwise been. For example, beside a section in which the longevity and glory of the Roman Empire was prophesied, the befuddled student wrote, "But Rome fell- did Virgil know this?" Ah yes, Virgil the time-traveling super-poet who cleverly peppered his verse with chronologically ironic statements. The same annotator observed that Dido's downfall is that she's "too nice" (apparently, feuding goddesses had nothing to do with it) and produced a mind-boggling series of rhetorical queries that demonstrate the importance of using context when deciphering pronouns in poetry (hint: the closest noun isn't always the antecedent). Sadly, the annotator only made it about a third of the way through the poem before either realizing that he/she could glean the crucial bits from lecture/Wikipedia or dropping the class. As a result, I was forced to pencil in similar comments in order to make it through the rest of the poem. The moral of this story is that though you may get the occasional bonehead marking up your book, reading a book that others have commented on previously gives an undeniable sense of camraderie. As in any interaction with strangers, you may be happily surprised, disappointed, or surprised into laughter. I highly recommend the experience to all.
1874233078	انه ايد و مختارنامه!مختارنامه رو ديديد؟ ديديد چقدر جنگ هاش تصنعیه؟ پر از حركات خشك و نمايشى، انگار نه انگار كه اون جا جنگه و دو نفر دارن با خشم و وحشت به قصد كشت تيغ تيز روانه ى سينه و گلوى هم مى كنن. نه وحشتى، نه عرقى، نه به نفس نفس افتادنى، نه تيرى كه توى گوشت گير مى كنه و بيرون نمياد، نه لخته خون كف كرده ى جارى از گلويى...فكر مى كنم بخشى اين ها به خاطر اينه كه عوامل اثر نه خودشون در جنگى حضور داشتن تا واقعيتش رو ببينن (طبيعتاً) و نه تخيل قدرتمندى داشتن كه بتونن جنون آشوبناك يه جنگ رو پيش خودشون تصوير كنن. و ويرژيل قطعاً يكى از اين دو رو داشته: يا تجربه ى مستقيم جنگ، يا تخيل قدرتمندى كه جايگزين تمام عيارى براى تجربه شده. اين حرف خيلى بيشتر در مورد هومر صادقه، كه ويرژيل پيروش محسوب ميشه. انه ايد و ايليادهومر شاعر يونانى حدود سه هزار سال قبل، ماجراى جنگ ده ساله ى يونان و تروى رو كه به نابودى تروى انجاميد، به شعر سرود. حدود هزار سال بعد، ويرژيل شاعر رومى دنباله اى براى ايلياد سرود و تعريف كرد كه چطور مهاجران جنگ زده ى تروى، در جستجوى خونه اى جديد، تمدن روم رو در ايتاليا بنياد گذاشتن. حماسه ى هومر اون قدرها عناصر ملّى نداره، و هومر به يك اندازه از تروجان ها و يونانى ها جانبدارى مى كنه، همون طور كه خدايان بعضى طرفدار اين گروهن و بعضى طرفدار اون گروه. اما حماسه ى ويرژيل شايد به تبع شكل حكومت روم، رنگى شديداً ملّى گرايانه پيدا كرده، جداى از موضوع (ماجراى بنيانگذاران روم) در توصيف ها و شخصيت پردازى ها و ماجراها و پيشگويى ها و رفتار خدايان، جانبدارى مطلقى به نفع تروجان ها (بنيانگذاران روم) ديده ميشه و به ندرت خصوصيت مثبتى از دشمناشون نشون داده ميشه. اين خصوصيت، و نداشتن خط داستانى پيوسته و جذاب، باعث ميشه كه حماسه ى رومى انه ايد چند مرتبه پايين تر از همتاى يونانى ش قرار بگيره، هر چند هنوز در اوج مى درخشه.خلاصه کتاب برای یادآوری شخصی(view spoiler)[كتاب اولپس از جنگ "ايليون" و سوختن شهر "تروى"، اهالى آن به هر سوى مهاجرت كردند. از جمله "انئاس" و يارانش به سوى ايتاليا بادبان كشيدند. اما ايزدبانو "يونو" كه به سبب حسادت ديرين به زيبايى "ونوس" ايزدبانوى زيبايى، دشمن تروجان ها بود، كشتى ايشان را دستخوش طوفان گرداند تا غرقشان کند. ونوس كه مادر انئاس نيز هست، به کمک پسرش شتافت و كشتى او را به ساحل كارتاژ انداخت. انئاس و يارانش به نزد "دیدون" شهبانوی كارتاژ رفتند و از او براى رفتن به ايتاليا يارى طلبيدند.ونوس از بيم آن كه يونو باز دخالت كند و جان انئاس و یارانش را به خطر اندازد، پسر ديگر خود "كوپيدو"، ايزد عشق را روانئاس مى كند تا در هيئت كودكى حامل هدايا، در مجلس بزم بر زانوى شهبانوى كارتاژ نشسته، عشق انئاس را در سينه او بدمد. شهبانو ديدون كه اينك عاشق انئاس شده، از او درخواست مى كند كه داستان جنگ تروى را بازگو كند.كتاب دومانئاس، داستان واپسين روز جنگ تروى را باز مى گويد: يونانيان اسبى چوبى را با دلاورترين مردان خود پر مى كنند و بر در تروی گذاشته، ساحل را ترك مى كنند. جاسوسى يونانى در لباس يك فرارى، به تروجان ها مى گويد كه اين اسب پيشكش يونانيان به ايزدبانويى است كه به معبدش توهين كرده اند، و خود به سرعت به يونان بازگشته اند تا تنديس خدايان خود را همراه آورند تا مگر به شفاعت آن ها از خشم ايزدبانو در امان بمانند. و اگر تروجان ها آن اسب پيشكشى را وارد شهر خود كنند، ايزدبانو بر يونانيان خشم خواهد گرفت.تروجان ها اسب را وارد شهر مى كنند، و نيمه شب مردان يونانى از آن به در ريخته، تروى را به آتش مى كشند. انئاس با دليرى مى جنگد و در ميانه نبرد چشمش به "هلن" زيباروى كه مسبب تمام اين فجايع است مى افتد و قصد كشتنش را مى كند، اما مادرش ونوس او را باز مى دارد و به حفظ خانواده و گريز از شهر مى خواند. انئاس با خانواده اش و كسانى كه بعدتر به او مى پيوندند از تروى ويران مى گريزد.كتاب سومانئاس و يارانش در جستجوى سرزمينى كه شهر تازه خود را بر آن بنا كنند، ابتدا به "تراس" مى روند، اما وقتى انئاس مى خواهد گياهى خون چكان را بكند، آوازى از بن آن بر مى آيد و خود را روح يكى از ياران انئاس معرفى مى كند كه به دست تراسيان كشته شده است و اين گياه از جسد او رسته. انئاس از ترس خيانت تراسيان از تراس می گریزد و خدايان او را به ايتاليا رهنمون مى شوند. در راه ايتاليا در جزيره هاى مختلف سرگردان مى شود، گاه با "هارپى"ها كركسانى با چهره ى دختران، رو به رو مى شود، گاه با "كوكلوپس"ها غول هاى يك چشم و گاه از "خاروپيدس" هيولاى دريا مى گريزد: سرگذشت هايى كه پيش از اين "اوليس" از سر گذرانده. داستان انئاس با رسيدن به كارتاژ پايان مى يابد.كتاب چهارمانئاس و ديدون شاهبانوى كارتاژ سرمست از دلدادگى با يكديگر عشق مى ورزند. انئاس از ادامه ى سفر منصرف مى شود و اين خبر به ژوپيتر مى رسد. ژوپيتر انئاس را باز به سوى ايتاليا و پادشاهى موعود مى خواند. انئاس بى درنگ كارتاژ را ترك مى كند و ديدون شاهبانوى كارتاژ خود را مى كشد. اين چنين دشمنى ديرينه روم و كارتاژ آغاز مى شود.كتاب پنجمانئاس و يارانش به "سيسيل" مى رسند و براى بزرگداشت خدايان، مسابقاتى برگزار مى كنند. در همين حين زنان تروجان خسته از سفر بى پايان، به قصد اين كه در سيسيل بمانند و باز سرگردان درياها نشوند، كشتى ها را به آتش مى كشند. ژوپيتر بارانى مى فرستد و بعضى از كشتى ها را نجات مى دهد. از آن جا كه تعداد كشتى ها كاسته شده است، انئاس ناگزير پيران و ناتوانان را در سيسيل باقى مى گذارد و با زبده ترين مردان و زنانش راهى ايتاليا مى شود.کتاب ششمانئاس به راهنمایی "سیبیل"، راهبه غیبگو، به جهان زیرین سفر می کند تا روح پدرش را ببیند. پس از گذر از رودخانه ورودی جهان زیرین، از میان ارواح سرگردان (کسانی که خودکشی کرده اند یا بدون گور مانده اند) می گذرد و روح دیدون شهبانوی کارتاژ را می بیند. سپس از برابر دروازه دوزخ می گذرد و راهبه که راهنمای اوست، شمه ای از عذاب های دوزخیان را باز می گوید.سپس به بهشت می رسد و در آن جا با روح پدرش ملاقات می کند. پدرش روح فرزندانی که قرار است از نسل انئاس پدید آیند و روم را به بزرگی برسانند به او نشان داده و او را با مژده بزرگی، به ادامه سفرش به سوی ایتالیا ترغیب می کند. انئاس باز می گردد و بی درنگ به سوی ایتالیا بادبان می کشد.کتاب هفتمانئاس به ایتالیا می رسد و قصد آن دارد که با دختر "لاتینوس" پادشاه "لاتین" ها - از اقوام ساکن ایتالیا - ازدواج کند تا بر قدرتش در آن دیار افزوده شود. اما ایزدبانو یونو که از موفقیت انئاس و سازگاری سرنوشت با او خشمگین است، می کوشد که این موفقیت را هر چه بیشتر تیره سازد. پس با یاری ایزدبانو "آلکتوی" دوزخی، جنگ و خونریزی را در میان ایتالیایی ها و تروجان ها می پراکند. از جمله "ترونوس" پادشاه "روتولی" ها - از اقوام ساکن ایتالیا - که قرار بود با دختر لاتینوس ازدواج کند، خشمگین به جنگ انئاس می آید.کتاب هشتمانئاس برای مقابله با ایتالیاییان، با دشمن آن ها پادشاه "اواندر" هم پیمان می شود. اواندر برای او تاریخچه سرزمین ایتالیا را باز می گوید: از دورانی که "ساتورن" مردمان وحشی آن دیار را قانون بخشید و بر ایشان حکومت کرد، تا دورانی که "هرکول" دیو هولناک ساکن در آن دیار را کشت. پس از اواندر، دشمنان دیگر ایتالیا نیز با انئاس متحد می شوند.ونوس از شوی خود، "ولکان" ایزد آتش و صنعت، می خواهد که برای فرزندش انئاس، اسلحه و زره بسازد و ولکان می پذیرد و بر آن ها تمام تاریخ آینده روم را حکاکی می کند و انئاس سرنوشت نسل های آینده را بر دوش می اندازد.كتاب نهمايتالياييان - لاتین ها و روتولی ها - از غيبت انئاس استفاده كرده شهر او را محاصره مى كنند. جنگی سخت در می گیرد.كتاب دهمانئاس با هم پیمانانش باز می گردد. سپاهیان ایتالیایی از دوسو محاصره می شوند و نبرد به سود تروجان ها می گردد. ایزدبانو یونو از ژوپیتر می خواهد که لااقل ترونوس پادشاه روتولی ها که از تیره خدایان است جان به در برد. پس ابری را به شکل انئاس می سازد و ترونوس به خیال این که انئاس را دنبال می کند، ابر را تعیب کرده، به کشتی ای وارد می شود. کشتی حرکت کرده از صحنه جنگ دور می شود.كتاب یازدهمتروجان ها به شهر لاتین ها حمله برده، محاصره کنندگان خود را محاصره می کنند. جنگ در می گیرد و عاقبت بنا بر آن می شود که انئاس و ترونوس نبرد تن به تن کنند و نتیجه جنگ را تعیین نمایند.كتاب دوازدهمنبرد تن به تن در می گیرد، و انئاس ترونوس را به قتل می رساند. (hide spoiler)]
1749310214	Book Review 3 out of 5 stars to The Aeneid, a classic work written in 17 BC by Virgil. In The Aeneid, Virgil creates two vastly different archetypal heroes named Turnus and Aeneas. Aeneas is a Trojan prince who has hopes of finding a new Troy in the land of Latium, but he runs into an angered Turnus, a Rutulian prince that does not welcome Aeneas. Both men are equally strong, equally determined, and have equal and rightful claim to the land. However, Virgil creates this distinct difference and hatred between the men that leads to the profound greatness of Rome. Turnus is a Rutulian prince who is planning on marrying Lavinia, the princess of Latium. He is courageous when he defends his people in the war against the Trojans (Book IX and X), brilliant in his plans to attack the Trojan camp (p.207), yet motivated to win for purely personal goals. Turnus sacrifices public welfare and the good of the state just to defeat Aeneas and win the battle and Lavinia. Aeneas is also a prince who is planning on marrying Lavinia. He is caring when he looks back for his late wife Creusa (p.57), respectful and loving when his father dies (p.80), and driven when he continues his journey to find a new Troy (p.103). However, unlike Turnus, Aeneas is truly unselfish in his reasons for wanting Latium. Aeneas wants to settle the land for his people and their families, to find a new Troy. Aeneas does not want the land to be selfish. Both Turnus and Aeneas have determination behind them, physical and mental strength behind them, yet most of all the gods behind them. With the help of Juno, Turnus fights till the end avoiding several near deaths such as Pallas’ arrow and his jump into the Tiber River fully armored. Similar to Turnus, Aeneas’ mother helps Aeneas by giving him protection with the creation of the shield (p.198), and when she heals Aeneas’ wound with the special potion (p. 302). Turnus and Aeneas up until this point have no differences. They are identical in their strengths, weaknesses, and support. However, the one major difference between them is that Aeneas has destiny behind him. He is fated to take care of his Trojan people, find a new Troy, marry Lavinia, and bear descendants to establish the great city of Rome. Aeneas has no choice but to win the war and Lavinia’s hand in marriage. Turnus must lose and somehow suffer; He cannot escape his fate. Virgil makes use of the difference between the two heroes using antagonism, hatred and most of all the superiority of Aeneas to show the greatness of Rome. At the time The Aeneid was written Augustus Caesar was in power and the Pax Romana was beginning. Rome was in a state of absolute reign and greatness. Virgil makes use of the character Aeneas to show the greatness of his friend Octavian or Augustus Caesar. He uses the difference between the two heroes to show that by destiny via Aeneas (an ancestor of Octavian Caesar) Rome will lead the world in philosophy, art, and intelligence, etc. Turnus is good, but Aeneas is better and so is the new emperor Caesar. With Octavian Caesar in control, Rome will become even greater than it is. Virgil accomplishes his goal of glorifying Rome and its leader Augustus Caesar. Virgil creates a strong similarity between Turnus and Aeneas, however the major characteristic of these two heroes is that Aeneas is destined to win and Turnus to lose. This difference greatly surpasses the likeness between the two men and leads to the exaltation and glorification of Rome. If Augustus Caesar is anywhere similar to Aeneas, which he is as Virgil points out, he will lead Rome to the tops. And that is just what happens! About Me For those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.
2004240278	some funny reviews as to my opinions on this1) this is filled with purple prose and instalove, complete with a hot sexy bad boy for the main character2) hello my name is Aeneas Dark'ness Dementia Raven Way. I have long ebony black hair and some people say I look like Aphrodite (AN: if u don’t know who she is get da hell out of here!) I was sailing through the ever-mindful anger of the savage Juno. It was raining so there was no sun, which I was very happy about. A lot of gods stared at me. I put up my middle finger at them.3) this doesn't really deserve one star but my latin class definitely does
1840053897	Read as part of my A Levels.Thoroughly enjoyed the first half of The Aeneid (mainly because its the half influenced by The Odyssey and so more mythological and fantastical) less enthralled by the second half (more influenced by The Iliad - with war and politics.)Will go back for a reread at some point I imagine.
7401092527	As shattered legendary Troy fell the fires engulfs the edifices and smoke flows, the shocked survivors flee dodging lances, swords, stepping over a plethora of rubble, dismembered bodies but where to go? Aeneas a member of the royal family seeing his family butchered, gathers a few Trojans, quickly escaping to the nearby coast picking up stragglers there, if only they find boats. Thus we begins the definitive Roman epic , yes indeed influenced by Homer's The Iliad and The Odyssey, not in their class not many are to be honest and having read now all three. War and numerous wanderings from both previous poems are in Virgil's single book, the surprise it's excellent. Asia Minor, is modern day Turkey, the isles of Greece , North Africa, the sandy shores of Libya, to the spectacular harbor in mighty Carthage, then unknown Sicily, finally, the inevitable, barbaric future Rome. And the struggles start, where the blood red drenched grounds appear. Heads chopped off, stomachs pierced, dislodged, vomit eruptions, from full dead mouths, spraying the horses and the innocent, still carnage prevails the heroics must show. The glory their friends and families expect, cowards will not be tolerated. Death is cruel yet better than lack of bravery all must fight.... or be despised.. for the young , healthy. Strange though, reputation valued ahead of your own precious, dear skin. Women weep, fathers stunned, wives mourn, nothing changes, the slaughter continues. No quarter given vicious battles occur, again and again, to the victor the supposed great spoils, they are the price of a new civilization?. If your heart beats faster as swords relentlessly slash through the air, the two battle leaders Aeneas for the Trojans, Turnus the Latins, the reader looks forward to the final match. The ancients writers knew how to entertain, not too interested in historical accuracy, since the myth of Rome founded on April 21, 753 B.C. is wrong and the fabled Trojan War happened circa 1200 B.C. Nearly a vast 500 years apart, nevertheless a very good story for anyone interested in what the few people who could read then found quite thrilling. In conclusion for those that seek knowledge even in quite fictional tales the subject will reveal aspects of truth not of history but their selves. Which to my state of mind gives flavor and understanding, the ambience of the author's trying sadly to communicate duty above well-being.
7027299158	قهرمان؟ خیر. مامورم و معذور. در دنیای ادبیات — همانند دنیاهای دیگر — متن‌ها در ارتباطی همیشگی و تنگاتنگ باهمند. این هم‌نشینی‌ها زمانی جذاب‌ترند که نویسنده اشاره‌ی واضحی به آنها نکرده باشد یا بهتر، حتا خودش هم از آن بی‌خبر باشد؛ اینجاست که لذت کشف و درک متن به یک بازی کارآگاهی تبدیل می‌شود. اما خیلی وقت‌ها نویسنده کار را ساده می‌کند و آنقدر سرنخ‌های ریز و درشت در ساختار و روایت و پیرنگ و موتیف و سبک به شما می‌دهد که شک می‌کنید واقعن همه‌ی اینها با برنامه‌ریزیِ آگاهانه بوده یا نشانه‌‌ای از ضعف قریحه و اندیشه‌ی او.مورد انه‌اید و رابطه‌اش با ایلیاد و ادیسه احتمالن معروف‌‌ترین نمونه‌ی این قضیه است. انه‌اید را که شروع کنید، از شباهت پررنگ آن به حماسه‌های هومری شگفت‌زده می‌شوید و شاید پس از مدتی دل‌زده. اگر به خودم اجازه‌ی اغراق بدهم، انگار که با نسخه‌ی دستِ دومی طرفیم که نویسنده‌‌ای جاه‌طلب اما نه‌چندان چیره‌دست، در آن‌ تلاش کرده ایلیاد و ادیسه را با اسامی لاتین‌ بازنویسی کند.‌ این شباهت، چه اسم آن را بازآفرینی بگذاریم، چه تقلید یا چه الهام — که به نظر من ترکیبی از همه‌ی این‌هاست — اتهامی نیست که ویرژیل تلاشی فعالانه برای زدودنش کرده باشد. مهم‌ترین نقدهای نوشته‌شده بر انه‌اید در این دو هزار سال یا از این ارتباط جنجالی شروع می‌کنند، یا در آن پایان می‌گیرند و یا به هر حال گریزی به آن می‌زنند. داستان از این قرار است که اِنِه (به تلفظ فرانسوی/انیاس به انگلیسی/آینه‌آس به لاتین کلاسیک) قهرمانی تروایی اما حاشیه‌ای در جنگ تروا بود که خدایان، به‌ویژه مادرش آفرودیت و پوسیدون، نظری خاص به او داشتند و بعد از هر بار زخمی شدن او را نجات می‌دادند، تا جایی که بار آخر ناپدید شد و برای هومر هم چندان مهم نبود که کجاست. ویرژیل اما به این نظرکرده برمی‌گردد. در انه‌اید که نزدیک به هفت قرن پس از ایلیاد نوشته شده، می‌بینیم که انه دوباره به جنگ برگشته و تا انتهای کار در تروا می‌ماند و وقتی که کاری از او برنمی‌آید مجبور به ترک شهر می‌شود، البته با ماموریتی تاریخی: بنا نهادن امپراتوری روم.شش کتاب اول انه‌اید داستان سفر پرپیچ‌وخم انه و همراهانش است برای رسیدن به لاتیوم [منطقه‌ای تاریخی در ایتالیا که شهر رم در آنجا ساخته می‌شود.] چیزی شبیه به سفر اولیس در جست‌وجوی خانه. و نیمه‌ی دوم کتاب هم ایلیادِ ویرژیل است، یعنی داستان جنگ‌هایی که انه باید برای تثبیت این قلمرو بکند. در این میان هم رومنس داریم، هم سفر به دنیای مردگان و هم جدال بین المپی‌هایی که هر کدام طرفدار یک طرف داستان‌اند. با این همه اما شکافی بزرگ بین انه‌اید و حماسه‌های هومری هست. اینجا افتخار فردی از نوع ایلیاد چندان مهم نیست، داستان‌گویی و نیرنگ‌بازی اولیس هم خیلی به کار نمی‌آیند. مسأله اصلی فراتر از نبرد با خدایان یا بازگشت به خانه است و آن چیزی است از جنس وظیفه‌گرایی (ترجمه‌ای دمِ دستی از عبارت لاتین pietas) و انسان رنجبری که حس مسئولیتش نسبت به فرزند/ملت/تاریخ را بالاتر از هر گونه افتخار فردی می‌داند. به عبارت دیگر، انه مامور است و معذور. او نه می‌تواند با افتخار مثل هکتور و آشیل در جنگ کشته شود، نه خانه‌ای برای خودش داشته باشد و نه اجازه دارد از مواهب عشق بهره‌مند شود. [اپرای هنری پورسل با نام Dido and Aeneas را بشنوید.] سرنوشت (و ویرژیل) برای او نقشه‌ای دیگر دارند: او‌ باید رنج این مسیر دشوار را بر خود هموار کند تا قدرتمندترین امپراتوری دنیا را پدید بیاورد. ویرژیل کتاب را سه دهه قبل از میلاد مسیح نوشته. زمانی که روم دوران پادشاهی (قرون ۸ تا ۶ قبل از میلاد) و جمهوری (قرن ۶ تا زمان نوشته شدن کتاب) را پشت سر گذاشته و آگوستوس جنگ‌های داخلی و جمهوری‌خواهان را سرکوب کرده و حالا به عنوان اولین دیکتاتور امپراتوری، سودای بزرگی در سر می‌پروراند. البته برخلاف تصوری که از امپراتورهای خونریز و بعضن دیوانه‌ی روم داریم، آگوستوس مردی آرمان‌گرا و صلح‌طلب بود — البته بعد از این که به اندازه‌ی کافی خون ریخت — و ایده‌آلش جامعه‌ای ساده‌زیست، تلاش‌گر و وظیفه‌گرا. ویرژیل در انه‌اید نه تنها تاریخ امپراتوری را به افسانه و خدایان پیوند می‌زند و مشروعیت‌ساز می‌شود، بلکه تا حد امکان این ایده‌آل‌ها می‌پرورد. [البته رابطه‌ی ویرژیل با آگوستوس و امپراتوری چندلایه‌ و پیچیده‌تر از این بود.] طبیعی بود که قهرمان چنین حماسه‌ای ضدقهرمان از آب دربیاید. کسی که نه بسیار نیرومند است و نه بسیار زیرک و نه حتا آنقدر محکم و استوار که هیچ وقت خم به‌ ابرو نیاورد. انه نه‌تنها هیچ کدام از اینها نیست، بلکه احساساتی بسیار عمیق دارد. به هر بهانه‌ای از شهر و خانه و هم‌رزمانش یاد می‌کند، بر دشمنانش دل می‌سوزاند و به‌دنبال کمترین حد از خونریزی‌ست. اطرافیان و سربازان کنار و مقابلش هم اغلب آدم‌هایی معمولی‌اند، کشاورزان و روستاییانی که داس و تبر را از کنار زمین بر میدارند و به جنگ می‌آیند. حتا در دربار شاهان ایتالیایی هم خبری از زرق‌وبرق نیست. به بیان دیگر، در دنیای ویرژیل آدم‌های ساده هم می‌توانند قهرمان باشند، به این شرط که وظیفه‌شان نسبت به خانه و میهن را از یاد نبرند. البته همین آدم‌های ساده هم بیشترین رنج را تحمل می‌کنند. انه‌اید در هر لحظه این را به یاد ما می‌آورد که موفقیت بزرگ، فداکاری‌های بزرگی را هم طلب می‌کند.دو هزار سال برویم جلوتر. ویرژیل با هر کس به‌گونه‌ای سخن می‌گوید. برای هیتلر،‌ روزولت یا ابوبکر البغدادی راه پیروزی بر دشمنان و داشتن دولتی قدرتمند که مایه‌ی افتخار باشد از گوش دادن انه‌ها به ندای وظیفه می‌گذرد. برای بسیاری از دیگران انه نمادی از نوع‌دوستی و صلح‌طلبیِ است که می‌تواند اروپای متحد را رقم بزند. بالاتر از همه اما انه‌ای قرار دارد که شمایلی‌ست از انسانی جاکن‌شده و محکوم به تحمل رنجی ابدی، چه نوع مسیحی و چه کافکایی. به هر حال هر قدر هم مدافع قدرت اراده و اختیار باشیم، همه تا حدی مثل انه‌ایم: مامور و معذور. پ.ن: خوانده‌شده با ترجمه‌ی خوب رابرت فیگلز و مقدمه‌ی عالی برنارد ناکس. مثل ایلیاد و ادیسه، کزازی به فارسی ترجمه کرده اما با وجود تجربه‌ی خوب قبلی این بار ترجمه‌ی انگلیسی را ترجیح دادم.پ.پ.ن: درباره‌ی ایلیاد و ادیسه قبل‌تر چیزکی نوشته بودم.پ.پ.پ.ن: با تشکر زیاد از هم‌خوانان عزیز.
17395341	I’ve been meaning to read the Aeneid for years. The Armorial Bearings of the City of Melbourne have the motto: Vires Acquirit Eundo which is taken from book four of the Aeneid. It translates as, “It gathers strength as it goes”. Melbourne’s first judge gave the young town the motto – but I’ve often wondered if those he gave it to had any idea that the reference is to sexual rumours spreading about Dido and Aeneas. Rumour being the swiftest of the Gods.Anyway, there is a pop star who is called Dido too, which is an odd name to call a child, I’d have thought. Given Dido’s fate in this book – to commit suicide as Aeneas leaves her to fulfil his destiny and found Rome – it seems an even stranger name to call a child.I had no idea that Aeneas was from Troy. That Helen one has a lot to answer for – but then, what would the Iliad, Odyssey and Aeneid be without her? And while we are on troublesome women – what’s that Juno like? But then, if you are going to marry your brother, well…The religion in this book is utterly remarkable. I quite like it, as it does more or less accord with my experience of the world. One of the problems Christianity faces is the problem of evil – how can an all powerful, all loving God allow such terrible things to happen? But the ancients had no such worries – basically the Gods are all total nutcases and totally dysfunctional. They don’t just engage in incest, but every vice imaginable and they all basically hate each other. So they go out of their way to make life a misery for each other and, in the process, make life a complete misery for people.I mean, imagine that not only the destruction of Troy, but also of Carthage (two of the major cities of the ancient world) can be more or less explained as resulting from a guy called Paris judging a beauty contest. This is religion for the third millennium. This is religion for a generation raised on Big Brother and American Idol.And when Virgil wants to be violent, we are talking squelchingly so. You know the sort of thing – thrice the two edged sword hacked into his flesh until huge welts… Yes, boy’s own adventure stuff, possibly even with capital letters. Lots of blood, quite a bit of mashed brains and the words ‘up to the hilt’ used at least twice that I can remember without checking.All the same there are moments of aching humanity and a perceptiveness that catches the breath. The scene in hell with Dido is very moving, the stuff with the king of Arcadia and Pallas is heart wrenching. A constant theme throughout is how your greatest victory can become your greatest defeat – as Turnus proves at the end.I really loved this, I loved the extended metaphors (some that went to the very edge of being over extended – like a rubber band that suddenly snaps and slaps the extender on the hand when all he wanted to do was shoot the band at a friend across the room, or knock down some paper targets now forever just out of reach). There is one – which I’ve forgotten what it was seeking to illuminate now – where a lion is being baited and has a spear stuck into it and the spear is broken off flush with its wound. I think all this was basically to say how loudly some guy was roaring – you know, as loud as a lion, wasn’t quite enough. But the metaphors really are quite something. You’d never get away with building metaphors like that today.I don’t know if it is as good as the Odyssey, but like the Odyssey it starts as a Classical Road movie and ends up one of those Epic Theatre battles that used to be on telly after the wrestling on Sunday mornings when I was growing up.You have to say one thing for these Mediterranean types , they sure know how to put on a good fight. The thing that is hardest to understand is that the Romans gave up all this to become Christians – hard to imagine.
1362540834	A pesar que el relato en sí no es tan interesante o épico como los de Homero, Virgilio logra un relato bien logrado y muy interesante.Es bueno también conocer cómo explican los romanos el desenlace de algunos griegos, adaptado claro está a su realidad.Es una de las pocas obras épicas en Roma que conozco por lo que el valor que tiene aún se eleva más, todo para dotar a Augusto de un origen divino.Lamentablemente esta obra fue inconclusa.
4336132157	La Eneida es una grandiosa mezcla entre la Ilíada y la Odisea. Los elementos, los tópicos, las figuras literarias para darle potencia y profundidad a lo contado y los personajes que la protagonizan son un fuerte indicio de que Virgilio quiso que así fuera narrada la historia; como un recordatorio a esos poemas tan importantes. Y eso es una razón más que suficiente para querer leerlo ya que en mi opinión se me hizo un relato bastante entretenido y digerible, incluso mucho más que los mencionados anteriormente.La historia sigue a Eneas, un troyano al que luego de la pérdida de Troya contra el ejército aqueo se ha visto empujado a buscar un lugar en el cual refugiarse junto con gran parte del pueblo que lo sigue. En el camino, que será bastante largo y difícil contará con la ayuda de una diosa que lo guiará, pero a su misma vez habrá otra que hará lo que esté en sus manos para que este no logre su cometido. Sin duda alguna los dioses tomarán el protagonismo que siempre han tenido en los terribles sucesos que acompañan a los personajes, al igual que el destino, los presagios y las intervenciones divinas, habrá mucha violencia, conflictos civiles/afectivos y también el futuro de una ciudad prometida en medio de guerras y conquistas; hasta la llegada al mismísimo infierno.La primera parte, que va desde los libros I al VI son una clara referencia a la Odisea con el viaje del héroe hacia el lugar deseado, rodeado de peripecias y forjando un relato en el que se nos nutrirá de detalles en torno a cómo se desarrolló el triunfo de los aqueos sobre los troyanos y gran parte del destino de los implicados. Y la segunda parte, que va desde los libros VII al XII se narran la llegada y conquista de Eneas en Italia, lugar que más adelante sería conocido como Roma. También el tono trágico y violento envuelto en muertes y conflictos tensos y sangrientos es una buena referencia a la Ilíada.En fin, a lo que quiero llegar es que si has leído la Ilíada y la Odisea y ambas te han gustado muchísimo este es un relato que merece la pena ser leído, ya que bebe en gran parte de estos poemas homéricos y se nota la influencia por parte de estos en la Eneida, una epopeya igual épica que sus antecesoras. O incluso más, ya que tiene varias escenas intensas y conmovedoras como pocas.
3556075403	1η δημοσίευση Book Press:https://bookpress.gr/kritikes/poiisi/... Η γενεαλογία, η αναζήτηση της προέλευσης, όπως μας δίδαξε ο Φουκώ, δεν είναι απαραίτητο να νοείται ως θεμελίωση στερεοτύπων, αλλά κι ως αναψηλάφηση του παρελθόντος, ως κατακερματισμός της όποιας ενότητας. Τούτο προϋποθέτει, εντούτοις, την εις βάθος γνώση του παρελθόντος, όχι ως στατικού και άπαξ σμιλευμένου όγκου που επικάθεται ως άχθος στις αντιλήψεις και την αισθητική των μελλουσών γενεών, όσο ως συνέχεια, εμβαπτισμένη στην ιστορικότητα.Μπορεί να μην υπάρχει μία και μοναδική πηγή, γνωστή αποκλειστικά στους μύστες, εκ της οποίας αρδεύονται οι υδάτινες εκτάσεις της γνώσης – πλην όμως, δεν είναι διόλου τυχαίο το γεγονός πως εκείνοι που εντρυφούν στην τέχνη του λόγου, συν τω χρόνω, υποπίπτουν στο άλγος του Νόστου. Κι ο Νόστος εδώ, αναπόδραστα, συγκλίνει με την επιστροφή στο παρελθόν. Ουδείς, ποτέ δεν νοστάλγησε το μέλλον. Και τούτο αποτελεί απλά διαπίστωση – δεν το προσημαίνω θετικά ή αρνητικά.Εν πάση περιπτώσει, για να έρθουμε στα καθ’ ημάς λογοτεχνικά δρώμενα, παρατηρείται σε αρκετούς αναγνώστες η ανάγκη αναζήτησης των απαρχών. Έχοντας πρώτα τρυγήσει τους καρπούς της συγκαιρινής τους παραγωγής, ο δρόμος τούς οδηγεί σε κάποια θεμελιακά κείμενα, των οποίων η αξία δεν είναι απλώς μουσειακή (εξ αποστάσεως θαυμασμός) για πάσης φύσεως παρελθοντολάγνους, αλλά ζώσα, ακμάζουσα και διαρκής. Η αιχμή της τέχνης των κειμένων αυτών παραμένει κοφτερή κι η επαφή μαζί τους προκαλεί στον αείποτε αναγνώστη εντάσεις και υποδόριες εκρήξεις αμιγούς αισθητικής απόλαυσης.Σε κάποιο από τα σταυροδρόμια της πορείας αυτής, της οποίας ο χάρτης έχει μεν δημιουργηθεί στο παρελθόν, υφίσταται δε μικρές αλλαγές στην πορεία των αιώνων, ο φίλεργος αναγνώστης θα συναντήσει τον Βιργίλιο και την Αινειάδα του. Επική ποίηση, έμμετρη φανταστική μυθοπλασία, πρόκειται για την ιστορία του Αινεία που φεύγοντας διωκόμενος από την Τροία αναζητά, όπως του όρισαν οι θεοί, μια νέα πατρίδα στην Ιταλία. Η πορεία ετούτη θα έχει διάρκεια, περιπέτειες, πολεμικές αναμετρήσεις, έρωτες και φιλίες, μεγαλείο και πόνο, ζωή και θάνατο. Ο Βιργίλιος θα επιχειρήσει να περιγράψει την ανθρώπινη κατάσταση σε 12 βιβλία και θα το επιτύχει στον μέγιστο βαθμό.Δεν έχει νόημα να σταθώ εδώ στα όποια επιμέρους, δεδομένου ότι η εισαγωγή των περίπου 130 σελίδων του ανυπέρβλητου μεταφραστή / σχολιαστή Παπαγγελή καλύπτει ολοκληρωτικά τον αναγνώστη. Θεωρώ πως θα μπορούσε (σε έναν άλλο ιδεατό κόσμο που δεν υποτιμούσε εξόφθαλμα την πνευματική αριστεία) να αποτελέσει από μόνη της πανεπιστημιακό μάθημα. Τούτου δοθέντος, το μόνο που μένει σε έναν απλό αναγνώστη (πάντα για μένα ομιλώ) είναι να μοιραστεί με τους ομοιοπαθείς τον αντίκτυπο που ένα τέτοιο έργο μπορεί να έχει στην πνευματική του διαμόρφωση.Δεν είναι απλό για κάποιον που εδώ και καιρό έχει ξεκόψει από τον έμμετρο λόγο να συντονιστεί με το εν λόγω κείμενο. Το έπος έχει παραδώσει ανεπιστρεπτί τη σκυτάλη στο μυθιστόρημα και τούτο καθιστά σαφώς πιο απαιτητική τη διαδικασία κατά την οποία οι συνηθισμένοι στα αλμυρά ύδατα της λογοτεχνίας καλούνται να βουτήξουν στο γλυκό νερό της επικής ποίησης, να προσαρμοστούν παρευθύς στην απουσία άνωσης (μεγάλη ευκολία ετούτη) και να απολαύσουν τις χάρες της.Ο δάσκαλος Μπλουμ έρχεται (τώρα και πάντα) αρωγός στην προσπάθεια: η ποίηση πάσης μορφής αναμέλπεται, εκφωνείται δυνατά (από στήθους, ακόμα καλύτερα), ούτως ώστε να αποτελεί μια ολοκληρωμένη οπτικοακουστική εμπειρία που μετατρέπει τον λόγο σε αίσθηση, σε βίωμα. Μολονότι θα ψευδόμουν αν έλεγα πως ακολούθησα πιστά τη συμβουλή καθ’ όλη τη διάρκεια της μακράς ανάγνωσης, όταν επιλεκτικά το έπραξα υπήρξαν όντως παράγραφοι / στίχοι οι οποίοι κυριολεκτικά υλοποιήθηκαν εμπρός μου, απέκτησαν ουσία και βάρος, διέρρηξαν τον χρόνο και τον τόπο και με ρούφηξαν στη δίνη τους.Δεδομένου πως ο Παπαγγελής στην εισαγωγή του αναλύει ενδελεχώς τα ζητήματα διακειμενικότητας, εκλεκτικής συγγένειας της Αινειάδας με τα προηγηθέντα ομηρικά έπη, θα καταθέσω την προσωπική μου αίσθηση. Το εναρκτήριο λάκτισμα είναι ξεκάθαρο. Ο Βιργίλιος δεν φείδεται πλείστες όσες αναφορές, δεν αποκρύπτει επιρροές και τα οφειλόμενα στον Όμηρο. Ταυτόχρονα όμως διαθέτει την απαιτούμενη από μια μεγαλοφυία οίηση, ώστε να δοκιμάσει την αιχμή του ποιητικού του ξίφους απέναντι σε έναν ογκόλιθο. Μην ξεχνάμε ότι έχουν μεσολαβήσει αιώνες στο μεταξύ, και πως στη σκευή του ο Βιργίλιος φέρει το απόθεμα του δραματικού λόγου όπως το παρέδωσαν οι μεγάλοι τραγικοί ποιητές.Θα λέγαμε πως ο Βιργίλιος είναι ένας επίγονος, κάτι που εν προκειμένω δεν έχει την αρνητική χροιά που προσέδιδε ο Στάινερ στην έννοια. Ο Λατίνος ποιητής είναι ο ευτυχής κληρονόμος μιας παράδοσης την οποία τίμησε με τρόπο θαυμαστό, εισαγάγοντας το δραματικό ύφος στην επική αφήγηση. Καίτοι το έργο του αποτελεί συνέχεια, δεν καταφεύγει στην ανούσια μίμηση, βορά στις σκιαμαχίες του αδηφάγου χρόνου. Η Αινειάδα εντάσσεται στη νεωτερικότητα, καθώς στο επικό στοιχείο εμφιλοχωρούν θραύσματα υπαρξιακού προβληματισμού. Ο Αινείας, σε αντίθεση με τους αδαμάντινους και κάπως δισδιάστατους ομηρικούς ήρωες, αμφιβάλλει, άγεται και φέρεται από όλα εκείνα τα ηθικά διλήμματα που συνιστούν εν τέλει την τραγικότητα. Εκεί που το ομηρικό έπος, όπως θαυμαστά τονίζει ο μεταφραστής, παρουσιάζεται «ως ευθύγραμμο, άμεσο, μια συμπαγής αναπαράσταση, όχι αυτοστοχαστική…», το νεότερο έπος λοξοκοιτά προς τα πίσω, ώστε να οδηγηθεί πλησίστιο εμπρός. Για να επανέλθουμε στην εισαγωγική παράγραφο περί Φουκώ, ο ποιητής κατακερματίζει την ενότητα του παρελθόντος, αναψηλαφώντας το παραδεδομένο, εγκυμονώντας το μέλλον όπως αυτός το οραματίστηκε.Η θεϊκή παρουσία –εσαεί παρούσα, ουδέποτε αμφισβητούμενη– κατευθύνει τις πράξεις των ηρώων, προφητεύοντας τα μελλούμενα, δικαιώνοντας τις πράξεις των τραγικών ηρώων που προσπίπτουν σε εκείνη διαρκώς για καθοδήγηση και αιτιολόγηση πράξεων (δικαίων και αδίκων). Τούτο όμως δεν εμποδίζει τους ήρωες (τον Αινεία πρώτιστα) να υποφέρουν, να αισθάνονται το άχθος της ύπαρξής τους, να αμφιβάλλουν και να συγκρούονται με τη συνείδησή τους και εκείνη των άλλων.Όπως έχουμε διδαχθεί από το Αρχαίο δράμα, μεταξύ των στοιχείων που ορίζουν την τραγικότητα ενός προσώπου συμπεριλαμβάνονται τα αισθήματα ενοχής, η σύγκρουσή του με υπέρτερες δυνάμεις, η απότομη μεταστροφή της τύχης, αλλά και η επικράτηση μιας αναπόφευκτης μοίρας. Ο Αινείας είναι ο κατ’ εξοχήν τραγικός ήρωας, αλλά εν τινι μέτρω αυτό ισχύει και για τα άλλα dramatis personae του έπους. Από τις πλέον χαρακτηριστικές περιπτώσεις η Διδώ, η οποία περιθάλπει τον Αινεία, τον ερωτεύεται για να τον χάσει στη συνέχεια, καθώς εκείνος ακολουθεί την προδιαγεγραμμένη από τους θεούς μοίρα του. Ο διάλογός τους πριν από τον χωρισμό (και τη συνακόλουθη αυτοκτονία της) είναι συγκλονιστικός και παραπέμπει στις ομορφότερες στιγμές της δραματικής ποίησης: «Το δάκρυ μου και ο λόγος σου, αυτά και τίποτα άλλο η άμοιρη δεν έχω. Αναβολή και χρόνο σου ζητώ, για να παραδοθώ στη μοίρα μου, να μάθω να πονάω». Και σε αυτή την έκκληση, ο αμετάπειστος Αινείας θα απαντήσει: «Αν ήταν στο δικό μου ριζικό, να ορίζω τη ζωή μου όπως τη θέλω».Όταν στη συνέχεια η Αφροδίτη ζητά από τον Ήφαιστο να φτιάξει μια νέα αρματωσιά για τον γιό της (όπως έπραξε η Θέτις για τον Αχιλλέα), είναι σαν να είμαστε παρόντες στην ίδια τη διαδικασία της ποιητικής δημιουργίας. Ο Βιργίλιος μετατρέπεται αυτοστιγμεί σε θεό Ήφαιστο: Στο βαθύ σκοτάδι της νύχτας, στα υπόγεια, απομονωμένος συνδαυλίζει το πυρ, ακονίζει την πένα, λιώνει το ατσάλι της έμπνευσης και σκαρώνει πανοπλία τρομακτική, απόκοσμης έμπνευσης, μεγαλειώδη. Το φυσερό της δημιουργίας ασθμαίνει ακάματα, οι στίχοι ρέουν, λιώνουν και παίρνουν το σχήμα τους αργά και σταθερά, υπό το άγρυπνο βλέμμα του δημιουργού. Όταν προβάλει το πρωί (χωλός, συχνά καταγέλαστος – τι σημασία όμως έχει το δέμας και η όψη του δημιουργού;) φέρνει στους θνητούς και τους αθανάτους που παρακολουθούν κραταιοί πλην όμως ανέμπνευστοι, το δημιούργημά του: την ποιητική του πανοπλία – καλύτερα, την πανοπλία για τον Αινεία και το έπος για εμάς τους βροτούς.Τα παραδείγματα υψηλής αφηγηματικής τέχνης αφθονούν. Ενδεικτικά μόνον αναφέρω κάποια. Συγκλονιστική η περιγραφή της εξόδου όπου ο Νίσος και ο Ευρύαλος επιχειρούν ανεπιτυχώς να κατασκοπεύσουν τους αντιπάλους στον πόλεμο κατά των Ρουτούλων. Μάταιη όμως η έξοδός τους και ο επακόλουθος θάνατός τους: «Ένα μονάχα μπόρεσε: πολύ τον δυστυχή του φίλο να αγαπήσει». Και ο ποιητής συνεχίζει: «Μακάριοι και οι δυο σας! Μερτικό στη δύναμη ας έχουν τούτοι οι στίχοι, ποτέ για εσάς δεν θα έρθει ο καιρός που λησμονιά θα σβήσει το όνομά σας».Για να ακολουθήσει στη συνέχεια ο σπαραγμός της μάνας του Ευρύαλου. Ποια ψυχή σύγχρονη, μέλλουσα δεν θα συγκλονιστεί από του ποιητή τους στίχους, τον τρόπο με τον οποίο μεταφέρει τον πόνο της απώλειας; Τι μπορεί να είναι εκείνο που έχει δραστικά αλλάξει ανά τους αιώνες, ώστε κάποιος να ισχυριστεί πως οι στίχοι έχουν ατονήσει και ο αντίκτυπος που προκαλούν είναι αδρανής και αφλεγής; Το ερώτημα είναι προφανώς ρητορικό.Στη συνέχεια, ο Αινείας σκοτώνει τον νεαρό Λαύσο που επιχειρεί να σώσει τον πατέρα του από βέβαιο θάνατο. Τον φόνο ακολουθεί η θλίψη για τον άδικο χαμό. Παραδίδει το σώμα στους συντρόφους του: «το κορμί ο ίδιος το σηκώνει από το χώμα – ασχήμιζε το αίμα τα μαλλιά που ήταν πάντα καλοχτενισμένα». Το κάλλος δεν εγκαταλείπει τον νεκρό, σε αντίθεση με την ψυχή που κατεβαίνει στον Άδη. Είναι η παρακαταθήκη στην αιωνιότητα, ο τρόπος του ποιητή για να δοξάσει το εφήμερο, τη νεότητα που υποκύπτει στον αδήριτο θάνατο, αλλά ταυτόχρονα γίνεται στίχος, αιώνιο παρόν, γίνεται ομορφιά προς τέρψιν των συγκαιρινών και των μελλοντικών αναγνωστών.Το έπος βρίθει πολεμικών συγκρούσεων. Ο αναγνώστης βέβαια ανακαλύπτει σταδιακά πως υπάρχει τάξη, ισορροπία, αισθητική, ακόμα και στις βιαιότερες περιγραφές. Το φονικό έχει τους κανόνες του, την τελετουργία του. Οι άνδρες πεθαίνουν διότι καταρχάς είναι θνητοί. Διότι είναι έρμαια των βουλών των θεών, μα και των δικών τους επιθυμιών. Διότι επιζητούν το κλέος, την υστεροφημία. Διότι είναι αψήφιστα γενναίοι, αλλά και ασυλλόγιστα δειλοί. Ποτέ όμως δεν πεθαίνουν ακατονόμαστοι (σε συμφωνία με την ομηρική παράδοση). Ο άνδρας που συναντά τον θάνατο σε μάχη ονοματίζεται, ενίοτε παρατίθεται σύντομη αναφορά στην οικογένεια ή τη φυλή του. Ετούτο τον καθιστά άνθρωπο, υποκείμενο άξιο αναφοράς, όχι απλώς έναν άγνωστο στρατιώτη, αναπληρωματικό πολεμιστή που η ύπαρξή του συνεισφέρει στη δόξα του βασιλιά του. Κάτι τέτοιο δεν υφίσταται στον Όμηρο ούτε προφανώς στον Βιργίλιο. Ο ηττημένος κερδίζει από την αξία του νικητή, με συνέπεια να αναφέρεται στους αιώνες.Ο θάνατος για τον Βιργίλιο είναι ηρωικός μεν, πένθιμος δε. Οι ψυχορραγούντες αφήνουν με θλίψη τον κόσμο, αναπολούν την πατρίδα και τους αγαπημένους τους προτού ενωθούν με τις σκιές. Ο ποιητής αποδίδει τιμή στους πεσόντες σε δίκαιο ή άδικο αγώνα, τυλίγοντάς τους με το πέπλο των στίχων του, το οποίο θα τους συνοδεύσει στο φριχτό ταξίδι τους στον κάτω κόσμο. Εκείνη τη στιγμή αίρει τον εαυτό του πάνω από τα ανθρώπινα, μετατρέπεται σε Θεό που επιχειρεί να επανορθώσει κατάφωρη αδικία (τι πιο άδικο από την ανελέητη σφαγή νέων και μη ανθρώπων στο πεδίο της μάχης), παρεμβάλλοντας την πένα του ως ασπίδα: «Κι αν η μοίρα σας οδήγησε πρόωρα στον θάνατο, οι στίχοι μου θα σας προσφέρουν ανάπαυση, αναγνώριση, την παρηγοριά της αιωνιότητας» μοιάζει να λέει. Ο θάνατος ποτέ δεν είναι οριστικός όσο υπάρχει η τέχνη. Ομοίως, ο άνθρωπος που δημιουργεί παραμένει αθάνατος, χτίζει για τον εαυτό του και τους γύρω του μια τάφρο στην οποία ρυθμικά χυμάνε τα κύματα του χρόνου και του αναπόφευκτου.Αντί επιλόγου«Τι είναι τελικά η Αινειάδα;» θα αναρωτηθεί ο σύγχρονος αναγνώστης, ο οποίος εθισμένος στην ταχεία αναλγητική επίδραση των λογοτεχνικών συμπληρωμάτων βλέπει με περισσή δυσπιστία ένα μεγάλης έκτασης κείμενο που μέσα από τους αιώνες παρατηρεί αφ’ υψηλού το ψηφιακό μας παρόν, απαιτώντας σιωπή, στάση, περισυλλογή, υπομονή. Η Αινειάδα είναι, αποφαντικά, το όνειρο του δημιουργού της, ένα κύημα (και κύμα) αστείρευτης έμπνευσης, η θαλερή όψη της ζωής κάθε φορά που μιμείται –ατυχώς– την τέχνη. Ο Βιργίλιος συμπλέκει το μυθικό με το ρεαλιστικό, υπακούει και προσεύχεται σε δυνάμεις ανώτερες από αυτόν (στο ομηρικό παρελθόν και στο Δωδεκάθεο). Ταυτόχρονα όμως, ως γνήσιος καλλιτέχνης, αποδομεί, εξεγείρεται, επαίρεται και πλάθει στα κρυφά πηλό με βλάσφημα υλικά. Αυτή είναι η διττή φύση, η κατάρα του καλλιτέχνη: εκεί που προσπίπτει σε προγόνους, εξουσίες και θεούς, την ίδια στιγμή να ενίσταται, να λοιδορεί και να «εμφαίνει καταγωγικούς δεσμούς» με όλα όσα θεωρεί συγγενικά στην τέχνη του.Ο σύγχρονος αναγνώστης καλείται να μοιραστεί το όνειρο της δημιουργίας αυτής, να εμβαπτιστεί στην ποιητική ουσία, να δοξάσει τους θεούς της και να γιορτάσει το ταπεινό και το υψηλό της ύπαρξής του δίπλα στον ποιητή. Τίποτε λιγότερο!https://fotiskblog.home.blog/2020/09/...
2060803112	Aeneas of Troy, in Homer’s Iliad, survives the Trojan War that kills most of his fellow-countrymen. A warrior of notable skill and bravery, he is nonetheless just about to be killed by Achilles when, in Book 20 of the Iliad, the sea-god Poseidon “poured a mist across Achilles’ eyes…and hoisting Aeneas off the earth he slung him far…” At that point, Aeneas simply disappears from the poem – and in the formulation of the Roman poet Virgil, Aeneas’ disappearance can be explained in terms of his being destined to lead a band of fellow Trojan survivors in founding a new and greater Troy, in the form of mighty Rome.Virgil (70-19 B.C.) stands alone among the poets of classical Rome, like Homer among the Greeks. No other classical writer composing in Latin is thought to share Virgil’s gift for wielding the language in such a way as to produce work that is both forceful and graceful. His talent for poetry was recognized, and encouraged, from his youth. At the same time – perhaps unavoidably, considering the times in which he was living – Virgil was caught up in the turbulence of Roman politics as Rome careened through one crisis after another, on its way from republic to empire.He is said to have been born near present-day Mantua, in northern Italy – a region where Octavian, after his defeat of Brutus and Cassius at Philippi in 42 B.C., rewarded his soldiers with land that he took from local landowners. One of those landowners may have been the then-28-year-old Virgil, and some scholars have seen Virgil’s Eclogues as containing pointed references to Octavian’s act of land theft.Yet even if Virgil resented what Octavian did in northern Italy, he must have known which side his puls (or focaccia) was buttered on. Within five years, he was part of the retinue of Maecenas, a trusted advisor to Octavian and patron of poets. Maecenas encouraged Virgil to compose the Georgics. This poetic cycle further enhanced Virgil’s reputation for poetry, and Virgil and Maecenas are said to have read the Georgics to Octavian, after Octavian had returned from defeating Antony and Cleopatra at the Battle of Actium in 31 B.C.It must be nice – it must be nice – to have a future emperor on your side. The poet Propertius tells us that Octavian, once he had officially become the first Emperor of Rome as Augustus Caesar, commissioned the composition of the Aeneid by Virgil, so that the poet could spend the last decade of his life working on the epic poem that would forever be considered his masterpiece. Reading the Aeneid, one gets the sense of how Virgil is building upon the Homeric tradition – and, in some ways, changing it by incorporating a contemporary political inflection that no doubt pleased his imperial patron. There are many great translations of the Aeneid. I favour the Penguin Classics deluxe-edition translation by Robert Fagles. A classics professor at Princeton University, Fagles had a gift for rendering the Greek of Homer and the Latin of Virgil into muscular, evocative English, in a Shakespearean-sounding blank-verse iambic pentameter that captures the musicality of both poets while avoiding both pedantry and excessive informality. His work found a wide and appreciative audience, and deservedly so.Fagles starts his translation of The Aeneid by writing, “Wars and a man I sing” (p. 71) – not the traditional “Of arms and the man I sing” – and in a way I like Fagles’s version better. The reason is that his translation – “a” rather than “the” – emphasizes Aeneas as a specific individual with a destined historical role, in a way that seems to comport well with Virgil’s historical vision and poetic sensibility. Aeneas, after all, is “an exile driven on by Fate…destined to reach Lavinian shores and Italian soil”, and to face “many losses…in battle…before he could found a city” (p. 71) at what would one day be Rome.The world of The Aeneid is, like that of The Iliad and The Odyssey, a world where the Olympian gods intervene regularly and forcefully in human affairs. Jupiter himself, the king of the gods, has made clear that it is Aeneas’ ultimate destiny to defeat any enemies he may encounter in Italy, and to found the Roman state:Aeneas will wageA long, costly war in Italy, crush defiant tribesAnd build high city walls for his people thereAnd found the rule of law….On them I set no limits, space or time:I have granted them power, empire without end….From that noble blood [of Troy] will arise a Trojan Caesar,His empire bound by the Ocean, his glory by the stars:Julius, a name passed down from [Aeneas’ son] Iulus, his great forebear. (pp. 81-82)Aeneas faces the constant and unyielding opposition of Juno, the queen of the gods, whose hatred for the Trojans did not end with the destruction of Troy; but he enjoys the protection of other Olympian deities, such as Venus (goddess of love, and Aeneas’ mother) and the sea-god Neptune. When Juno persuades the wind-god Aeolus to send wild winds to strike the Trojan ships at sea, threatening the wreck of the entire Trojan expedition to Italy, Neptune goes with his son Triton and the sea-nymph Cymothoë to calm the seas and rescue the Trojans – an event that Virgil recounts via an elaborate simile that emphasizes the Roman “rage for order” and fear of chaos:Just as, all too often,Some huge crowd is seized by a vast uprising,The rabble runs amok, all slaves to passion,Rocks, firebrands flying. Rage finds them armsBut then, if they chance to see a man among them,One whose devotion and public service lend him weight,They stand there, stock-still with their ears alert asHe rules their furor with his words and calms their passion. (pp. 76-78)Driven to Carthage, the Trojans are granted sanctuary by the Carthaginian queen Dido. Hearing Aeneas’ recounting of the Trojans’ travails during and after the fall of their city, she says, “Schooled in suffering, now I learn to comfort/Those who suffer too” (p. 97). While Virgil depicts Venus as making Dido fall in love with Aeneas by having the love-god Cupid shoot Dido with arrows of love, in accordance with a well-known trope of classical epic, doing so hardly seems necessary. It makes perfect sense that Dido – like Aeneas, an exile who has successfully led her people to safe harbour in a new land – might come to feel passion for someone who is brave and strong like her, and with whom she has so much in common.In Book Two of the Aeneid, Aeneas provides Dido and the Carthaginian court with a detailed recounting of the fall of Troy, and he emphasizes in the process the treachery of the Greeks in securing victory through the subterfuge of the Trojan Horse. Aeneas tells how Laocoön, priest of Troy, tried to dissuade the Trojans from taking the horse into the city, saying, “Trojans, never trust that horse. Whatever it is,/I fear the Greeks, especially bearing gifts” (p. 105).Beware of Greeks bearing gifts – another idea from Virgil that one hears spoken throughout the modern world, often by people who have never read Virgil. But the Trojans, as Aeneas reminds us, did not take Laocoön’s advice, because two giant sea-serpents, sent by the gods, swam up onto the land and promptly killed Laocoön and his two sons – a tableau that one can see recreated in a magnificent, and grim, statue preserved today at the Vatican Museum. Always we are reminded that the Olympian gods are perfectly able and willing to intervene in human affairs, in a manner that we mortals might find to be fundamentally unjust.As Aeneas tells it, he was ready to give his life in Troy’s defence, until his mother Venus intervened and told him to focus on trying to save his wife Creusa, their son Ascanius, and Aeneas’ father Anchises. For good measure, Venus made it clear that there was no more use in Aeneas’ fighting for Troy, a city whose fall had been ordained by the gods: “Think: it’s not that beauty, Helen, you should hate,/Not even Paris, the man that you should blame, no,/It’s the gods, the ruthless gods who are tearing down/The wealth of Troy, her toppling crown of towers” (p. 127). And so Aeneas left Troy, carrying father Anchises on his back, holding the hand of his young son Ascanius. Wife Creusa trailed behind, her ultimate fate an unhappy one.This part of the Aeneid, with its emphasis on how the gods arrange the love affair of Aeneas and Dido – even using the weather to trap the two together, alone in a cave, at the critical moment – creates a decided sense of sympathy for Dido. There is a desperate quality to Dido’s love for Aeneas:This was the first day of her death, the first of grief,The cause of it all. From now on, Dido cares no moreFor appearances, nor for her reputation, either.She no longer thinks to keep the affair a secret –No, she calls it a marriage,Using the word to cloak her sense of guilt. (p. 173)Their love is passionate – and it is should be no surprise that more than a dozen composers have been inspired to bring to the operatic stage the story of Dido and Aeneas. Understandably, Aeneas is in no hurry to leave his Queen of Carthage. It takes a visit from the messenger-god Mercury to Aeneas to induce the prince of Troy to flee from his Carthaginian love interlude and return to the performance of his divinely established duty. Mercury may offer a frankly sexist assessment that “Woman’s a thing/That’s always changing, shifting like the wind” (p. 190), but one gets a sense of how much Virgil sympathizes with Dido. Aeneas follows the directive of the gods and leaves. Dido curses her departed lover, prophesying eternal enmity between Carthage and Rome – a perfectly correct prophecy that anticipates the three Punic Wars of 246-164 B.C., and the total destruction of Carthage – and then takes her own life. It soon becomes clear that Aeneas will not be able to complete his quest and fulfill his destiny unless he descends into the underworld, the realm of Pluto and abode of the dead, to receive crucial information from his now-dead father Anchises on how to conduct the rest of his mission. In passages of singular grimness, Virgil sets forth a vivid picture of the underworld, with particular emphasis on the cruel punishments facing those who have sinned against the gods. These passages from Book 6 of the Aeneid are said to have caused Augustus’ sister Octavia to faint when the poem was read to her. And, centuries later, they inspired the poet Dante Aligheri. In the first two books of his Divine Comedy, Dante the Poet makes Virgil the guide for Dante the Pilgrim through Hell and Purgatory; and anyone who has read the Aeneid will see at once how strongly Virgil’s poem influenced Dante’s vision of Hell in the Inferno. Like Odysseus in the Odyssey, Aeneas in the Aeneid successfully makes his way through the underworld, and finds his father Anchises, who gives him advice regarding how things are to go, in a way that looks ahead to the Roman Empire and the Roman “destiny” to rule the world:“But you, Roman, remember, rule with all your powerThe peoples of the Earth – these will be your arts:To put your stamp on the works and ways of peace,To spare the defeated, break the proud in war.” (p. 266)Armed with that new knowledge, Aeneas returns to the world of the living, and goes forth to fulfill his destiny. And while Latinus, king of the Latins, is willing to heed the wishes of the gods, forge an alliance with the Trojans, and marry his daughter Lavinia to Aeneas, there are some formidable antagonists still to be faced. Turnus, king of the Rutuli, was the man whom Latinus’ wife Amata wanted to see marry Lavinia, and he is angry at the prospect that both his bride-to-be and his prospective future kingdom are to be taken from him by some Johnny-come-lately from defeated troy. Turnus – “his build magnificent, sword brandished,/Marches among his captains, topping all by a head” (p. 300) – is likely to be a formidable enemy for any warrior. And among the greatest of Turnus’ supporters is the Volscian leader Camilla; “This warrior girl, with her young hands untrained/For Minerva’s spools and baskets filled with wool,/A virgin seasoned to bear the rough work of battle” (p. 301).Virgil has a gift for interweaving elements of incisive characterization, even in the midst of bloody scenes of battle. One of the pre-eminent villains of The Aeneid is Mezentius, an Etruscan king who is notorious for his cruelty, and who revels in the chance to spill Trojan blood – until his son Lausus bravely and selflessly gives his own life stopping a sword thrust that would have killed Mezentius. The grieving father regrets living on once his son has died: “Was I so seized by the lust for life, my son,/I let you take my place before the enemy’s sword?...I owed a price to my land and people who despise me./If only I’d paid with my own guilty life” (p. 400). Aeneas takes on Mezentius in single combat and defeats him soundly, asking, “Where’s the fierce Mezentius now?/Where’s his murderous fury?” (p. 401). And the despicable Mezentius achieves a measure of dignity in his last moments, asking to be buried next to his beloved son Lausus as “he offers up his throat to the sword” (p. 401). And thus the Aeneid moves toward a conclusion that may be divinely pre-ordained but nonetheless makes for suspenseful reading. While the political element – the recurrent need for Virgil to throw in a reference or two to what great leaders Julius Caesar and Augustus Caesar are going to be – is jarring, it may also have been inevitable, considering the hyper-politicized nature of a Roman state that had been through so much political turbulence during the century of which Virgil was a part. But a modern reader can look past the politics and enjoy the richness of the poetry.If you have a friend who enjoys classical literature, then someday you may see on their bookshelf Fagles’ Penguin Classics translations of the Iliad (with a blue cover), the Odyssey (with a red cover), and the Aeneid (with a gold cover). If your friend has bought those editions and read them, then their time and their money were well-spent.
87906760	The Romans took over from the Greeks as the dominant Mediterranean power after Alexander of Macedon died in 323 BCE, and then turned into an empire when Caesar crossed the Rubicon in 49 BCE, which is a nice way to say that he staged a military coup and installed himself as dictator. It ran along merrily for 800 years until around 500 AD, when it was finally overrun by a series of people with awesome names like Visigoths and Attila the Hun. Rome was actually founded even earlier than that, though, in the 700s BCE, by Aeneas, who was a Trojan - from the Trojan War, so we’re working (as usual) off Homer. Like Odysseus, Aeneas had a long and incompetent journey from Troy. I made this myself! Click for bigger He wasn’t going home, though, he was trying to find a prophesied new one. Because Odysseus showed up in a horse and burned his old one. (That famous Trojan Horse story is mostly told in the Aeneid, only briefly referred to in the Odyssey.) That founding story, which is made up, is what's told in the greatest Roman epic, Virgil's Aeneid, written around 20 BCE. It’s pretty good. The story of the Carthaginian queen Dido is a high point: she falls in love with him; they sleep together and then he’s like never mind, I gotta go found Rome, prompting her to commit suicide by stabbing while burning, and beginning a feud with Carthage that will come to fruition when Hannibal barely fails to defeat Rome around 200 BCE, and then Rome completely destroys Carthage and you can’t even find ruins anymore, really, which is a bummer. Dido killing herself - by Cayot, 1711, this is in the Louvre TS Eliot calls The Aeneid "our classic, the classic of all Europe." It's a minor work for our generation - we're way more familiar with Homer - but it's been consistently read since it was written, unlike Homer (who lost favor for a while in the Middle Ages). It's an imperialist work, basically, written to canonize Rome as a great civilization and specifically exploring what it means to be a superpower. Virgil wasn't comfortable with it himself; he never finished it, and (according to the myth) asked that it be burned after his death, which lesson Kafka might have paid attention to: if you want something burned right, you'd best do it yourself.TranslationsI read the Fagles translation, which was as usual excellent. In case you don't know, Fagles is the Pevear & Volokhonsky of antiquity: he's done well-regarded translations of just about every work written BCE, which means you can just go with him if you don't have any better ideas but you should maybe watch out that you don't end up absorbing the entire canon through him, which would be weird. Mandelbaum also has a translation; I haven't read it but his work is dependable. Your other options are the conservative Fitzgerald or the very liberal Lombardo. Here's an excellent but very lengthy piece that (starting about halfway down) talks at length about different translations and comes out for Fagles.
4324147746	The main ancient Roman epic poem, written at the beginning of the reign of Octavian Augustus.Plot. Rating 4The plot of the poem is divided into two parts. The first part tells about the voyage of Aeneas to the shores of Italy and various incidents on his way. The second part reports on the actions of Aeneas in Latium.I liked the second part of the poem more, where the plot is full of military operations and a tense confrontation between the opposing sides. There is also more drama in this section of the poem. Although the chapters on Dido sound rather poignant, the descriptions of the war, and the heroics, death and sorrow associated with it, seemed to me more convincing.The general plot of the poem is varied and contains many small branches and events.Characters. Rating 4Aeneas is well developed, his constant desire to obey the gods and put the common good above his own desires is clearly shown. The history of Rome in the pre-imperial period contains many such heroes. I think Virgil's poetry was a good example of a first hero of Roman times. Although most of the characters in the poem are rather faceless, there are memorable personalities such as Dido, Turnus, Camilla, and other episodic characters.Dialogues. Rating 4Dialogues can be considered a model of pathos and grandiosity. They fit the genre, but to be honest, towards the end of the book, I got a little tired of such monotonous recitations.Writing style. Rating 4There are many beautiful sayings and metaphors in the poem, and the poems themselves are full of action and details. Virgil is clearly among the best ancient poets. But, this style is quite difficult to read. You often need to re-read incomprehensible phrases because of the unknown concepts of antiquity and the subtle meanings that Virgil puts into the text.Worldbuilding. Rating 5I think when reading such poems one can feel the great depth of the Roman world, which was extremely developed socially, culturally, and religiously. There are many different features of antiquity in the poem. I liked the descriptions of military battles and fights in Eliade - for an epic they are quite diverse and reliable.Conclusion. Overall rating 4A great poem, which is a good fusion of poetry and antiquity.
4996472655	Evo – topos neizrecivosti: ni da sve moguće superlative ovde upotrebim, ne bi bili dovoljni da dočaraju šta je sve „Eneida”. Susret sa klasičnim delima zaista umiva čoveka – predstavlja nužni reset za dodir sa savremenošću. A zaista dobri prevodi, kao što je to ovde slučaj, rastežu savremenost do drevnosti. Marjanca Pakiž je uspela da Vergilije zvuči kao neko sasvim blizak, uz zadivljujuću posvećenost da osavremenjivanje bude i potkrepljeno, autentično, ali i beskrajno elegantno. Čitanje ovog izdanja je briljantan omaž celini rimske kulture, rekapitulacija mitologije i antičke istorije i udžbenik stila, pun avantura i izazova. Doživljaj ne bi bio ni upola takav da nije bilo ne samo, naravno, odličnog prevoda gde je heksametar dosledno poštovan od prvog do poslednjeg stiha, već i izuzetnih prevodilačkih napomena, korisnih, neopterećujućih, otmenih i, usudiću se reći, šmekerski duhovitih – pogotovo jer Pakiž ne preza od gotovo pa lično obojenih ocena, kao i kritičkih promišljanja pojedinih neusaglašenosti u delu, koje čine čitanje još zanimljivijim. Stoga svih 767 napomena čine svojevrsnu kriptoknjigu u odnosu na „Enejidu”, koja višestruko nagrađuje sve posvećene. A tek da ne govorim o tome koliko puta sam bacio pogled na geografsku kartu koja se dobija uz ovo izdanje! Ovo je, dakle, čitanje sa punom borbenom i putničkom opremom – a, da stvar bude još bolja – pristupačno! Jer Pakiž nije ni precenila ni potcenila čitaoce – ko želi da priđe Vergiliju, moći će po svojoj sopstvenoj meri, ali uz retko vrednu pomoć. Zaista, ovako dragoceno izdanje se retko pojavljuje u nekoj kulturi i treba da apsolutno bude prepoznato i pozdravljeno. Pošto je čitanje trajalo dugo, moj rokovnik je značajno podgojen. I sažet pregled beležaka bio bi preobiman, pa ću sada napraviti neki sažetak sažetaka. Najpre jedan sasvim opšti utisak: Vergilije je pesnik epskog sveta, ali delikatne lirske refleksije. Koliko sam uživao u pričama, toliko su me radovali svi lirski uzleti i poetična skretanja koja čak i surovosti čine na poseban način nežnim. Ono što je posebno uzbduljivo, a što bi znao i neko pre čitanja, jeste što je celina „Eneide”, u odnosu na nama poznatije, Homerove oči, pogled poraženih. I to ne običan pogled, već osveta i trijumf, utemeljujuć za poimanje posebnosti jedne zajednice. Otuda Vergilije komunicira kako sa ondašnjim trenutkom, tako sa Homerom, ali i, kao svaki epski pesnik, večnošću. Inače, često se prenebregava da između Homera i Vergilija stoji raspon od, bogami, osam vekova! Zamislite da danas poredimo neki savremeni roman sa nečim iz 12. veka? Vreme se usitnjuje.Pregled nekih omiljenih momenata, po pevanjima:I) Eolova stolujuća špilja i Neptun dok umiruje vetrove: „Reče pa rečima samim nabubrelu pučinu smiri, rasprši oblaka hrpe i sunčevu povrati svetlost.” (57)II) Kasandra je najuverljivija najneuverljivija proročica u istoriji proricanja.Eneja sanja Hektorovu sen. III) Jeza – iz zelenih izdanaka krv. Eneja susreće mrtvog Polidora.Podnožje Etne: Grk koji moli Trojance da ga prime.Polifem na brdu bez i tog jednog njegovog oka. (168)IV) Didonu izjeda zaljubljenost. Sukobi i navijanja Junone i Venere. Didonino proklinjanje zbog neuzvraćene ljubavi:„(...) Biću daleko, al’ mrkim ću ognjempratiti tebe. A ledena smrt kad mi dušu od telarastavi, biću uz tebe kao utvara! Platićeš grdno!Znaću, jer meni će vesti do najdubljeg podzemlja stići.” (192)Misterija čarobnice iz Etiopije.Didonino samoubistvo.V) Trka brodova i nagrada – zlatni ogrtač sa porubom.VI) Katabaza! I saznanje da Had nije konačan – da duđe idu uvis i potom se vraćaju u tela. Metempsihoza! (292)VII) Krčkanje rata. (Do ovog trenutka „Eneida” je više nalikovala „Odiseji”, od ovog postaje „Ilijada”.)VIII) Reka Tibar govori u svoje ime. (358)Ali i: „čude se vode i šume: ne videše do tad da blješteičiji brodovi tako, a brodovi da se šarene.” (360)U „Eneidi” su vrlo česta svitanja, ali i počinci.Venera u postelji ubeđuje Vulkana da pomogne oružjem. Enejin štit. (379) A na njemu sva italska prošlost i sva rimska budućnost. IX) Niz i Eurijal se uvlače među Turnove vojnike. X) Veće bogova: Jupiter negoduje. Opis: „A među njima je, eno, i briga Venerina silna:dečak Dardanac, a prelepu otkrio glavu pa blista – kao treperava svetlost dragulja sred tamnijeg zlatana dijademi il’ kakvom đerdanu, il’ kao što sjajis tamnog kovčežića, od terpentinovog drveta, veštoumetnut deo od slonove kosti. Niz prebeli vrat seslila dečakova kosa, a meko je prikuplja zlato.” (446)Eneja se raznevljuje. Pa i šutira glavu ubijenog. (467)Junona interveniše: pravi utvaru po ugledu na Eneju da bi se spasio Turno. XI) Kamila kao jedna od najupečatljivijih amazonki – obnaživanje grudi u napadu – herojska smrt.XII) Finalna borba: Eneja vs. Turno.Venera krišom Eneji daruje bilje, da pomogne. Poređenje: opšta uznemirenost kao kad pronađe pčele neki pastir u šupljikavoj steni. (558)
1759078352	It is hard for me to rate his book because I know so much of it went over my head. One of the hardest books I have ever read...but I can see that Virgil is one of the greatest poets of all time.
7788862316	Virgilio, contemporáneo del emperador romano Octavio Augusto, escribió la Eneida como una epopeya nacional con el objetivo de engrandecer Roma. A lo largo de los doce libros que componen la obra, se presenta al Imperio como un futuro glorioso que debe existir, y Eneas debe luchar por ese destino. Lo que intenta Virgilio es demostrar la conexión del Imperio Romano con los míticos troyanos.El tema central de la obra es el viaje de Eneas desde Troya, su patria (Eneas comparte ascendencia con Héctor; su padre Anquises y Príamo eran primos), hasta Italia, y la guerra que se desata entre los pueblos itálicos y los troyanos. Según la leyenda, tiempo después de los sucesos en la Eneida, el hijo de Eneas, Ascanio, fundó una ciudad llamada Alba Longa, donde con el tiempo nacerían Rómulo y Remo, los fundadores de Roma.Los seis primeros libros relatan las aventuras de Eneas desde la caída de Troya hasta su llegada a Italia: lo que sería su propia Odisea. Y sí, pueden decir que no cuenta como una Odisea porque no está volviendo a su casa, y les voy a dar la razón, pero ☝️ la nostalgia que existe en este libro no es hacia el pasado per se. Eneas no quiere regresar a Troya como Odiseo quiere volver a Ítaca, porque Troya ya no existe. Eneas no puede regresar a ningún lado, solo le queda la nostalgia de un futuro profetizado, de un “nuevo hogar” para los troyanos, que es el hogar del futuro pueblo romano.Además, Virgilio hace referencias evidentes a la Odisea: el naufragio, territorios extranjeros que buscan impedirle continuar su viaje, e incluso aparece Dido, gobernante de Cartago que desea quedarse con él, como Calipso o Circe. Incluso tenemos una escena en el inframundo, donde Eneas, como Odiseo, va a hablar con los muertos.Los libros del siete al doce, en cambio, van a asimilarse más a la Ilíada. Se relatan las luchas entre los troyanos y los pueblos enemigos. Hay referencias claras a la ira de Aquiles por la muerte de Patroclo, reencarnada en Eneas tras la muerte de Palante, y a la posterior venganza contra su asesino. También se retoma el duelo entre Héctor y Aquiles, ahora representado por Turno y Eneas. Obviamente, Héctor es mucho mejor que Turno, pero vamos a ignorarlo. ¡Y hasta reaparece la cuestión de la súplica! Aunque no le llega ni a los talones a la escena de Príamo arrodillándose ante Aquiles, no way.Ahora bien, Eneas no es Aquiles. Nadie ataca su carácter heroico en ningún momento, no hay ningún orgullo herido ni “timé” que defender. Y a Palante lo conoció por uno o dos libros, no vivieron toda la vida juntos como Aquiles y Patroclo.Tampoco es Odiseo, que es un héroe que perdió a todos sus compañeros en el viaje: Eneas logra cumplir su destino gracias a un ejército de supervivientes troyanos que luchan por él.Es otro tipo de héroe, ¿más político?, definitivamente es más racional que Aquiles y tiene gente a la que gobernar. Es un héroe al que se lo llama muchas veces “piadoso”, que dice mucho de los valores que había en Roma para entonces.Algo que me pareció muy piola es cómo Virgilio intenta justificar el origen de Roma a partir de los troyanos y para eso usa sucesos históricos reales. ¿Vieron que dicen que la mejor forma de mentir es decir la verdad lo más posible? Bueno, así. Por ejemplo, narra el supuesto inicio de la rivalidad entre Cartago y Roma a través del amor frustrado entre Eneas y Dido, y también, para el final, explica la futura influencia latina en Roma como parte de un pedido de Juno a Júpiter.Otra cosa que amé leer —y que también amé en la Ilíada y la Odisea— fue la intervención divina. Por más que Júpiter se los haya prohibido, los dioses no se quedan quietos en el Olimpo, como no extraña a nadie. La primera en intervenir es Venus, madre de Eneas, que es quien más desea que él sobreviva. Después, Júpiter fue quien decretó el futuro destino de Roma, así que tiene obviamente un interés personal en que Eneas lo cumpla. Por otro lado, la diosa que cumple el papel de Poseidón en la Odisea es Juno. Supuestamente, tiene varios motivos para odiar a Eneas (el principal: ella ama Cartago y conoce su futuro trágico a manos de Roma), pero al final parece que simplemente odia a los troyanos. ¿Es posible que sea porque Paris no la eligió como la más hermosa frente a Afrodita antes de la guerra de Troya? Es posible.Estas intervenciones divinas, más allá del drama mitológico que aportan, también sirven para mostrar que los grandes destinos como el de Roma no se construyen solo con voluntad humana, sino que están guiados por fuerzas superiores que manipulan y arrastran a los personajes hacia lo inevitable. Y en ese viaje inevitable, alcanzar la gloria tiene un costo. Creo que uno de los “mensajes” del libro es que no se puede llegar a un destino de gloria y paz como el que promete Roma sin el sufrimiento de muchos individuos, como Dido o Lauso. Virgilio parece buscar la empatía hacia estos personajes, y Eneas incluso acaba por sentir compasión por ellos, aunque al final no sean más que sacrificios por el bien común. Esto, en mi opinión, hace la Eneida más simbólica y reflexiva para leer que si fuera solo un libro de propaganda política para Augusto.
6015707649	En baştan şu uyarıyı yapayım; bu kitabı gerçekten keyif alarak ve olduğu kadar da anlayarak okumanız için İlyada ve Odysseia’yı okumuş olmanız elzem. Yaklaşık olarak iki yıl önce “ben Aeneis’i okumak istiyorum” dediğimde bu uyarıyı yapan @hinoandthebooks a-mitoloji yolculuğuma bütün katkılarıyla birlikte bunun için de- sonsuz teşekkürler. Zira 12 bölümden oluşan kitabın ilk altı bölümü Odysseus’un yolculuğunu kalan altı bölüm ise İlyada’ı temel alarak kurulmuş durumda.Kitabın kendisine gelecek olursak - ki böyle bir yapıt hakkında ne diyeceğimi tam bilemesem de- okuduğunuz aslında Augustus’un isteği üzerine -Homeros esiniyle- Vergilius’un yazdığı Roma’nın kuruluş destanı. O yüzden okuması çok kolay değil açıkcası. Çünkü Troya Savaşı’nın devamı niteliğinde başlayan hikayeden kaynaklı olarak hem Grek mitolojisine hakim olmanız hem de bu mitolojinin Roma mitolojisindeki karşılığını bilmeniz ya da öğrenmeniz gerekiyor. Evet kitabın arkasında bir sözlük bulunuyor ancak hem devamlı en arkaya dönmekten sıkıldığım hem de notların kısalığından bazı şeyler eksik kaldığı için direkt Google kullanarak (ve @fran.kub notlarına yanlayarak) ilerledim. Bir de ara ara Aeneas’ın kalkanında ya da Styx nehrinin ardında gerçekleşen buluşmalarda dillendirilen kehanetlerin daha bir anlam kazanması açısından Roma’nın kuruluşuna, Julio-Claudian dönemine dair biraz bilgi sahibi olmanız keyfinizi arttıracaktır. Bu noktada yakın zamanda Terra Nostra ile döndüğüm Roma mitolojisi ve ardından gelen Ben, Claudius okuma sürecindeki Google aramaları ve yan kaynakların faydasını çokça gördüm. Tabii bunlar da hem destanı hem de kahramanların tamamını öğrenmek ve tanıyıp anlamak için yeterli gelmiyor. Özellikle de savaş düzeni alınırken verilen tekmillerin bir noktasında her karakteri “kim kimdir?” diye aramayı bırakıp ana temaya odaklanmayı seçtim. Çünkü bit yerden sonra taraflar da isimler de çorba olmaya başladı ve pes ettim. Özetle Aeneis asla “herkes okusun” diyebileceğim kitaplardan birisi değil. Mitoloji gerçekten çok ilginizi çekiyorsa ve İlyada ile Odysseia’nın tadı damağınızda kaldıysa buradan devam edin. Çünkü bir anda çoğu kavramın değişmesi bir yana - elbette böyle bir eseri dilimize kazandırdığı için Türkân Uzel’e sonsuz şükran borçluyuz- fakat İlyada ve Odysseia’deki Azra Erhat’ın “bu toprakların hikayesini ve tarihini herkes öğrensin” düşüncesiyle binbir emekle ve anlaşılır hale getirerek eklediği dipnotların, önsözün ya da sözlüklerin eksikliğini çokça hissediyorsunuz. Tabii bu cümle yanlış anlaşılmasın evet Azra Erhat’ın yeri mitoloji seven çoğu insanın kalbinde ayrı ancak Aeneis’in de bazı dillerde hala çevirisi bulunamıyorken bizim topraklarımızda yıllardır okunabilir haldeyse bu Türkân hanım sayesinde o yüzden biraz kitabı bırakıp da araştırma yapmaktan gocunmuyorum asla. Yalnızca kitabın okuma sürecinin İlyada ve Odysseia’den farkını dile getirmek için belirttim. Ben özellikle de kötü kitapların damga vurduğu kasım ayından sonra ara ara güzelliğinden gözüm dolarak ama karakterlerim birbirine gitmeye başladığını fark ettiğim her anda mola verip zamana yayarak, büyük bir hayranlıkla okudum. Lakin bir kere daha dönüp okurum da diyemem, asla cesaretim yok. Bu noktadan sonra yoluma -Aeneis’in yarattığı etki biraz daha hafifleyince yani muhtemelen 2024’te- yoluma Christopher Marlowe’un Kartaca Kraliçesi Dido ve Ursula K. Le Guin’in Lavinia kitaplarıyla devam edeceğim.
83365490	When in high school I read the Iliad and Odyssey. After completing them I had to run down Virgil's Aeneid. If you've ever read these books the word pictures of this epic story (Greek myth and then Roman) will I believe be somewhat burned into your mind. I doubt you'll ever have clearer ones. Though written centuries ago the epic tales of mythological gods, goddesses, and heroes will stay with you. For me also the "shift" from Greek characters to Roman (especially in the case of the mythological deities) was extremely, what(?) interesting(?). That might be the word. the way Homer sees Aphrodite and Virgil sees Venus are, different. Maybe complimentary would be an applicable word, though it seems to me that they had at times radically different views of them. Where I went away from Homer picturing Aphrodite, Ares and their allies in a more negative light, Virgil seemed to see that particular party in a more sympathetic light.As one view of the "heroic" mythical past this is an enjoyable and (dare I say it?) worthwhile read. Also I must admit, I always enjoyed fanciful type literature (and stories). As a kid it was harder to find stories of swords, daring do magic and mayhem than it is now and mythology served quite well. Like a lot of people (including Tolkien and Lewis) I preferred Norse mythology, but Greek and Roman would do in a pinch.So, think about it, erudition and high adventure all in one book, what's not to like? It's a win/win.
4289002693	kitabın içindeki 12 bölümün ilk 6 bölümünü 3 haftada okuyup neredeyse 1 ay hiç elime almadım, sonraki 6 bölümü de 1 hafta gibi bir sürede okudum. bu yorumumda kitaptan çok deneyimimi paylaşacağım çünkü aeneis anlatılmaz yaşanır bir kitap djhlfk. aeneis okumadan önce ilyada ve odysseia'yı okumak şart. çünkü aeneis troya'nın yıkılışı ve oradan kaçma ile başlayıp kitap boyu troya'ya atıfla devam ediyor. aeneis toplam 12 bölümden oluşuyor. ilk 6 bölüm odysseia gibi sonraki 6 bölüm ilyada gibi yazılmış. okurken bunu çok net hissediyorsunuz. bu da kendi başına inanılmaz bir deneyim. ilk 6 bölümü okumayı başarabilirseniz sonraki 6 bölüm çok daha kolay okunuyor. ilyada ve odysseia okumayan birinin bu kitabın altından kalkması mümkün değil. grek mitolojisine ilyada ve odysseia'yı okuyarak alışmak çok önemli. aeneis okurken grek mitolojisine dair öğrendiğiniz her şeyi geri plana atıp roma mitolojisine göre olan versiyonu üzerine yazmanız gerekecek. bazı kişiler ve hikayeler tamamen farklı bir formatta karşınıza çıkacak, hazırlıklı olun. kitabın ilk iki bölümü troya savaşını mükemmel resmediyor, sonrasında dido ile ilgili bölümde de müthiş bir kadın sesi dinliyoruz. kitaba dair beni en çok etkileyen şeylerden biri bu oldu. metni okurken bir kadından dinliyormuşum gibi hissettim. tanrıça seslendirmeleri de bir bu kadar iyiydi.kitabın her satırını anlamayı, her kişisini bilmeyi, her hikayesine hakim olmayı aklınızdan geçirmeyin. olduğu kadarıyla yetinin. kitabı anlamayı güçleştiren şey roma mitolojisi / roma kültürü / roma toplumu gibi etkisi yüzyıllar süren/sürecek bir değerler inşasının temelini oluşturan eser olması. kitap plotu olan şiir düzeninde yazılmış herhangi bir metin değil. ben kitapta bu inşayı nasıl yaptığına odaklandım, hikaye ve kişiler bu anlamda geri plandaydı benim için. bu kitabı anlayabilmek için ayrı bir kitap, en azından detaylı bir önsöz olması lazım. çok detaylı bir şekilde kişiler, hikayeler, atıflar, mitler anlatılmalı mutlaka. türkçe çevirisi dil anlamında zorlayıcı değil fakat içerik anlamında anlaşılmayan çok fazla şey var bu bilgi eksikliği sebebiyle. bu da okumayı zorlaştırıyor, bazen okuduğunuz şeyin büyük kısmını hiç anlayamıyorsunuz çünkü. kitabın sonunda aeneis için sözlük yapılmış, kesinlikle çok iyi düşünülmüş fakat sözlükteki bilgiler çok yüzeysel ve her şeyi ve herkesi kapsamıyor. örneğin kitapta bahsi geçen önemli iki karakter var marcellus ve pallas. bu iki kişi de sözlükte yok. kim olduklarına internetten bakmak gerekiyor. üstelik pallas aynı zamanda athene'nin ön ismi, bununla karışıyor olması da çok büyük anlam karmaşası yaratıyor. hikayenin geçtiği yerde kısa bir dipnot dahi yok maalesef. ilyada ve odysseia için azra erhat'ın özenle hazırladığı önsöz ve mitoloji sözlüğü, kitapları daha fazla anlamayı sağladığı için aeneis için de benzer bir şey arandım. tüm kitap boyu da en çok böyle kılavuz bir kitaba başvuramıyor olduğum için zorlandım. yine de müthiş bir deneyimdi iyi ki okudum.
1366108620	The reason that I picked up this Latin epic book (Yes, what I read did not seem to be a poem, at least to me, but just a splendid translation) is the countless inter-textual references to this mythology book in the books I previously read. And I was not even half-satisfied to find none of them in this translation, in that sense. But, coming to this translation:"Can there be so much anger in the hearts of the heavenly gods?"The above line just summarizes the whole story of prophetic wanderings and wars of Aeneas, a Trojan who was forced to leave his own land Troy with his arms, men, father, and son, and a sign from the above. The divine interventions he encounters are always mixed blessings. While his mother Venus comes to aid during his hard times, the mother of gods, Juno always contrives some disastrous plan against him, reasons for which I am quite uncertain. "Women are unstable creatures, always changing!", says Mercury who comes in rescue of Aeneas from that nuptial trap of Dido.As Aeneas sets sailing, hardships, rough weather, and unfortunate deaths that befall him are countless, inexorable, and irrevocable. All credits to the relentless efforts of Juno and the oversight of the god of gods. When the rumor does her part to bring unforeseen troubles to the ill-fated and embittered Aeneas and his son Ascanius from faraway lands and distant enemies, the god of war, Mars feels a pinching responsibility for his divine position and breaks all hell loose in the name of war on the poor mortals who try to endure all difficulties hoping on the divine destiny.The wars, wanderings, and wraths seem to continue: Treaties are broken, wars are waged, lands are ransacked, ships are wrecked, fathers are broken, mothers are heart-wrenched, sons are killed, daughters are sullied and animals are slaughtered. Are the gods satisfied?What I like much about the book are the vivid narrations of misery of fathers who sent their sons to war, and mothers whose sons went to war without telling them. What I don't like about the book are the countless sacrifices, mostly oxen or sheep or swine or sometimes even opponent soldiers or anything with head or something in hundreds or more. The only times when there were no hints of sacrifices were when they coughed or farted. Oh, forgive me, it is just my level of understanding on sacrifices or anything of that sort is very low.So, if you want to know what happens to the guy who gets the sword from Orlando Bloom i.e. Paris from the TROY movie at the end, you might want to check this out. Well, hey! there is HOMER, too!
2084900281	Ok but this was so much better than the Iliad or the Odyssey... Aeneas is the only main hero from an epic I didn't despise with every fiber of my being (except Hector I adored Hector)
4095109374	Virgil begins by saying, 'I sing of arms and of the man',a poetical attempt, mirroring the Homeric tales of arms (The Iliad) and man (The Odyssey), which succeeds as he beautifully manages to recreate a tale infused with the characteristics of both the epics.A mesmerising experience, which words cannot justify, Virgil's Aeneid is perfect in every aspect of story telling. It is tragic and wrathful, politicised with witty arguments, instilled with the fury of war, shaded with a philosophical virtue, glorified with the nobility of warriors and romanticised with love and jealousy.Aeneas, the protagonist, from a pitiable and broken state, embarks on his journey to find a new home, after witnessing the brutal fall of his homeland. But the journey is not so simple as Juno's wrath has no end, even the destruction of Troy is not enough, as she wishes to destroy Aeneas and the remaining Trojans and undo the prophecy which began their journey in the first place. Venus, Aeneas' mother, on the other hand, is trying her best to prevent any further misery and looks forward to the foundation of Rome, by her son. Virgil even describes the tragic fall of Troy, which in turn gives his hero a character development deserving of the protagonist of his tale. Aeneas goes from an exiled refugee to the warrior king, who not just wins lands but also hearts. As someone who is aware of the aftermath of war, Aeneas is more evolved and more human, also more pragmatic. He never boasts for he knows that even the best can fall (Achilles and Hector). He knows the tragedy of war which solidifies him as the true king, he knows his worth but never lets it overshadow his senses, that is, he never lets overconfidence dwindle him; which resonates quite beautifully in this quote to his son, "From me, my son, you can learn courage and hard toil. Others will teach you about fortune."He goes on further, cautioning his son that though the future holds fortune and victories, he should not forget the nobility and spirit of the two greatest Trojan heroes. "My hand will now defend you in war and lead you where the prizes are great. I charge you, when in due course your years ripen and you become a man, do not forget, but as you go over in your mind the examples of your kinsmen, let your spirit rise at the thought of your father Aeneas and your uncle Hector."There are many instances when Aeneas is compared to Hector, which, I think, is Virgil's way of establishing the nobility of his character by paralleling it with the Homer's Hector, perhaps to overcome some of the instances where Aeneas decisions might not be in line with this character so proposed.Another beautiful takeaway for me would be the way Virgil humanises even his villains. Additionally, there is always something which would make one aware of the futility of wars, beautifully conveyed through this direct confrontation to Zeus, "What god could unfold all this bitter suffering for me? What god could express in song all the different ways of death for men and for their leaders, driven back and forth across the plain, now by Turnus, now by Trojan Aeneas? Was it your will, O Jupiter, that people who were to live at peace for all time should clash so violently in war?"It is a literal masterpiece, the poetry oozing throughout,"Just as when we are asleep, when in the weariness of night rest lies heavy on our eyes, we dream we are trying desperately to run further and not succeeding, till we fall exhausted in the middle of our efforts; the tongue is useless; the strength we know we have fails our body; we have no voice, no words to obey our will - so it was with Turnus."I think, for all its criticism on being a Roman propaganda and an extended fan fiction, one cannot deny the genius of Virgil, and personally, if I could, for an instance, comply with the criticism so expressed, I will still be forever glad for its existence.
4104684397	Este libro me encantó en su día, se podría decir que es como la odisea de homero solo que el protagosnista es Eneas un superviviente troyano de la guerra de Troya, su "odisea" de como huyó, con otros de sus compatriotas , las visicitudes que pasaron juntos con hasta que lograron por fín asentarse en un lugar y oh sorpresa (view spoiler)[ es sitio fue Italia, se dice que fundaron el imperio romano!!! (hide spoiler)].
1455367008	I Aeneid a break
5578351895	Quizá por primera vez desde que retomé la lectura como un hábito diario en 2022, sentí con verdadera fuerza la necesidad de separar la obra literaria de la experiencia de lectura asociada a ella. ¿Qué es lo que valoramos cuando asignamos en esta red social cierto número de estrellas a un libro? Desde 2023 estoy en Goodreads y creo que pocas veces me lo he planteado. Generalmente puntúo sin más, guiado por mis sensaciones. ¿Pero eso es siempre justo?Si se tratara sólo de cómo me sentí leyendo la Eneida, dificilmente pasaría de las tres estrellas. Para empezar porque, tal vez un poco apresurado, compré una edición, de Cátedra, que me sacó canas verdes y no recomiendo para nada. El libro viene con una introducción de ¡¡108 páginas!! interminable, confusa y llena de disquisiciones innecesarias. Ya entrados en el texto de Virgilio, nos encontramos permanentemente con excesivas y extensas notas al pie, comentarios irrelevantes que ocupan la mayoría de las veces más de la mitad de la página y que terminé omitiendo para no interrumpir la lectura a cada momento. Y la traducción está en verso, lo que podría ser una ventaja sí, pero en este caso está en endecasílabos, por lo que no respeta la numeración de hexámetros original lo que la hace completamente inútil a nivel académico (en definitiva el fin último por el que hice la compra).Además de estas dificultades de edición, ya cansado, frustrado y al borde del bloqueo lector intenté apurar la lectura y terminarla rápido pero sin dudas no es un libro para ser leido "por arriba". Escrito hace 2000 años, al igual que la obra de Homero refleja un universo bastante desconocido para los lectores del siglo XXI, y su lenguaje no es sencillo. Requiere una lectura atenta, tranquila, con un diccionario cerca y accceso a internet para consultar referencias, de modo de no perderse detalles de la trama y verdaderas genialidades del autor. Sentí que llegar al final fue sacarme un peso de encima, cuando no debería haber sido así, debería haber disfrutado de la Eneida mucho más. Muchísimo más.Y es que la obra, por sí sola, es de cinco estrellas, y solo cinco porque en Goodreads no se pueden poner más. ¡Qué maravilla! El despliegue de Virgilio me pareció fantástico, en todo sentido, y me resulta difícil condensar todo lo que representa, expresa y transmite en una simple reseña.Guiado por el principio de "imitatio" o de resignificación, Virgilio recupera las temáticas de la épica homérica y les da un nuevo sentido y carácter. Partiendo del ciclo troyano, toma como protagonista a Eneas, soldado teucro sobreviviente con su familia y su pueblo de la caída de la famosa ciudad. El héroe tendrá que seguir su destino y sus raices no sin dificultades, hacia las costas de Italia en pos de un nuevo proceso fundacional de lo que en la época de Virgilio se habrá convertido en nada más y nada menos que el Imperio Romano.En el camino, Eneas protagonizará entre otras cosas un romance trágico con Dido de Cartago, visitará a su difunto padre en el Inframundo, y finalmente se verá envuelto, nuevamente, en una guerra. Junto a su destino (fatum), quizá el motor o aspecto definitorio de Eneas, su areté, es la piedad (pietas) la cual dialoga y alterna emociones y decisiones con la pasión (furor).Muchos de estos elementos, así como escenas, pasajes del texto, muchas veces tienen gran inspiración no solo en la Iliada y la Odisea sino también en otros textos clásicos. Pero Virgilio redirecciona todo ello, en pos de ciertos "objetivos propios". Para empezar se busca cierta justificación mítico-literaria al origen de Roma y la romanidad. El autor, si bien podría pensarse que glorifica la figura de Cesar Augusto, también es muy crítico de su gobierno y le reclama que sea un gobernante justo, dando muestras de su cercanía a la filosofía estoica. Además, escrita la Eneida en el siglo I a. C, recién impuesta la "pax augusta" tras años de fraticida guerra civil, en ella Virgilio hace varias reivindicaciones "pacifistas". En especial el discurso de Diomedes, hacia el final de la obra, me conmovió especialmente y me pareció un recurso espectacular.Quizá un elemento que no me gustó (aunque es propio de su época y no es del todo justo hacer juicios de valor) es que otra vez las mujeres se ven disminuidas y señaladas. En la obra se las ve permanentemente dejándose llevar por la pasión, al punto de no medir las consecuencias y causar siempre enormes perjuicios. El ejemplo más representativo es el de Dido pero también en el libro V (antes de llegar a Italia) las mujeres troyanas deciden quemar las naves y en la segunda mitad de la obra, al igual que Helena en el ciclo troyano, una mujer, Lavinia, es el elemento en disputa de una cruenta y feroz guerra. La principal antagonista es la diosa Juno, quien rivaliza permanentemente con Venus, madre de Eneas, y ambas llevan al límite su pasión en pos de favorecer sus intenciones y torcer el destino.Muchas de las escenas relatadas por Virgilio se han convertido en icónicas y han sido representadas a lo largo de los siglos hasta la actualidad a través de diferentes formas de arte. La Eneida del mismo modo que otras obras clásicas, continúa siendo un referente para el pensamiento de Occidente, para nuestra cultura, y aborda cuestiones trascendentales a toda la humanidad.En definitiva, las cuatro estrellas resumen esa conjunción entre lo que me pareció la obra y la experiencia de lectura que tuve en este momento. Seguramente vuelva a la Eneida más adelante, con otra edición y otros tiempos. Es un libro fundamental.
3129488989	YouTube kanalımda İtalyan Edebiyatı'na başlangıç yapabileceğiniz kitap önerilerimden bahsettim: https://youtu.be/nTxrw0TosEg"Havlamak için yoluna çıkan her köpeği durduracak olursan, hedefine varamazsın." Miguel de UnamunoYılmadan sürekli arkasından konuşulan Aeneas. Sırtında yükleri olan Aeneas. Hedefleri uğruna her şeyi göze alan ve yoluna çıkan köpeklere kulak asmayan Aeneas. Sahi kimdir bu Aeneas?Herkesin içinde bir Aeneas vardır. Ait olduğu yurdundan kovulmuş gibi hisseden ve dışarıda yürüdüğünde aitsiz bakışlarla insanlara bakan bir Aeneas'tır bu. Hedefleri vardır ve bunları gerçekleştirmek için pek çok şeyi göze almıştır. Sırtında taşıdığı yükler vardır. Gelecek kaygısı, vurdumduymaz olamamak, unutamamak, alışamamak, yaşadığı çağın ölesiye bilincinde olmak gibi özellikleriyle tanırız biz Aeneas'ı.Aeneas'ın hayatta önüne çıkan her şeye dediği 2 cümle vardır:"Dayanın, direnin.Daha güzel bir gelecek için çabalayın.Böyle dedi Aeneas, kaygılı yüzünde umut." (s. 33)Umutla ve dirençle daha güzel bir gelecek için çabalamak. Dayanmak ve başarısızlıklarına kader deyip geçmemek. Arkasından konuşulanlara aldırmadan hedeflerine dimdik ilerleyebilmek. Denemek, yenilmek ve sürekli bu döngüde hayatını hedeflerine adayabilmek vardır. Boş işlerle ve boş muhabbetlerle uğraşmaz Aeneas.Sırtında taşıdığı bir yük vardır Aeneas'ın. Destanda bu, babası olarak geçse bile, bizim de hepimizin sırtında taşıdığı çeşitli yükler vardır. Bir de bu yükü taşırken Aeneas'ın önüne çıkan pek çok engel vardır. İnsanlar sürekli arkasından konuşur Aeneas'ın. Yaptıklarıyla değil yapmadıklarıyla eleştirilir hale gelir Aeneas. Bulunduğu çağda anca hedeflerini somut ve görünür sunabildiği kadar var olabilen insanlardan biridir o da sadece. Bunun dışında çoğu kimse inanmaz onun uğraştığı yeni bir ülke kurma arayışlarına...Sahi yeni bir ülke kurma arayışı nedir? Maruz kaldığımız ülke sadece etrafımızda bulunan ve sınırları karalarla, denizlerle çevrili coğrafi bir ülke midir? Benim ülkem, akıl iklimiyle düşünen ve bireysel çözüm bitki örtüsüyle yeşeren bir coğrafyaya sahiptir. Şehirleri kayıtsız kalınamayan konulardır. Hiçbir zaman dış politikalarla arası iyi olamamış bir ülkedir bu. Çünkü orada meyveler büyür, durmadan elinden geleni yapar Aeneas halkı için. Meyve veren ağacı taşlarlar ya, işte tam da bu sebeple Aeneas'a hasetlenenler de alırlar ellerine taşları ve bir bir taşlamaya başlarlar onun arayışlarını, sırtındaki sorumluluklarını, yeni ülke arayışlarını, ölüler ülkesindeki gezilerini...Aeneas'ın surlarda savaştığı düşmanlar destanda Aeneas'ın yaptıklarına karşı hasetlenen Rutullar olarak geçer. Fakat aslında Aeneas hasetlerle, egolarla, vurdumduymazlıklarla, apolitiklerle, amaçsızlıklarla savaşır. Bir ok atar, bir kayıtsızlığın kafasını yarar. Kargısını bir fırlatır, amaçsızlıklardan birisi yere düşmüştür. Hatta bazen taşıdığı manevi yük yardımcı olur Aeneas'a, o yüklerden birisinin tanrısallığı hasetlere karşı kalkan olur. İşlemez hiçbir silah Aeneas'a. Çünkü Aeneas'ı destekleyen değerli insanlar vardır.Yunan ve Roma mitolojisini burada hiç bilinmeyen kelimelerle anlatmak yerine Aeneas'ın bize söylediği çok değerli cümleler var. Dayanmak, direnmek, güzel bir gelecek için çabalamak. Dayananlara, direnenlere ve güzel bir gelecek için çabalayan insanların önüne taşlar koymamak. Kıskançlığın iyisinden örnek alıp Aeneas'ın yükünü azaltmaya çalışmak. Bulunduğu çağın eksiklerine karşı bön bön bakmamak ve yeni ülkeler kurabilmek için gereken enerjiye hep beraber sahip olabilmek. Ne de olsa onun dediği bir şey vardı yine:"Kesme çabanı, sürdür başladığın işi, çalışmaktan kaçınma."(s. 84)Sürdürün başladığınız işleri, kesmeyin çabanızı. Arkanızdan kim ne derse desin, önünüzdeki geleceğin güzel olmasına sebep olabilecek kişi yine ve yegane olarak sizsinizdir. Arkadan konuşulanlar arkada kalır fakat önde daha güzel bir gelecek vardır, çünkü dedikodu ve haset kuru bir laf kalabalığı, karaktersizlik iken, esas karakter koyabilmek, hiç kimsenin yük taşımak için adım atmadığı bir çağda yüklerin hepsini sırtlamak için can atarak koşabilmektir.Sapla düşünce ve çaba kılıcını onlara Aeneas! Hiçbir zaman kesme çabanı. İn ölüler ülkesine, Hades'in oraya. Unutma artık ölü olan masum insanların silüetlerini. Onlar sana bu yolculukta rehber olacak, aynı Pallas Athena gibi. Onların gölgeleri bile yetecektir sana. Hatta demişti yıkım edebiyatçılarının biri olan Heinrich Böll:"Yaşayanların ölü olduğuna ve ölülerin yaşadığına inanırım."İşte, buydu Aeneas'ın rehberi. Ölülerle yaşıyordu Aeneas da. Gücünü Tanrı'dan alan ve yükünü sırtlamış koca yürekli adam. Etrafındaki yaşayanların çoğunun ölü olduğunu anladığı zaman da, öldükten sonra adını ve halkı için yaptıklarını yaşatabilmek için daha çok çaba gösterecek Aeneas. Çünkü, hepimiz kaygılı yüzlerimizde bir umut parçası görmeye hasretiz. Hepimiz bir direnç ve dayanak arıyoruz şu sanal hayatlarımızda. Sanal gerçekliklere attığımız kementler ve ardından onun için köleleşmelerimiz, bizim içimizdeki esas Aeneas arayışını bizden alıyor.Aeneas'ın dediği tek şey var, dayanmak, direnmek, daha güzel bir gelecek için çabalamak. Biliyor musunuz? Çok da fazla bir şeye ihtiyacımız yok aslında be...
3681177754	i'll admit it: i don't like the style of epic poetry. the constant catalogues and tangents just aren't for me, personally. that said, this work has been an absolute fucking joy to study (the historical context is almost more interesting than the text itself), particularly in my latin class of literally eight people. and despite the fact that the poem itself is often boring, i'm definitely going to read it again, more carefully this time. so. four stars for this world classicETA 9/2/21: i stand by everything i said about the style of epic poetry. however. four stars does not do justice to the degree to which the aeneid lives in my head and makes me mentally ill up thereETA 10/27/21: having just finished my reread - i am done pretending the aeneid isn't good. no, it's not the iliad or the odyssey, but it's a different sort of story with different aims and i'm sorry but i am not even going to pretend virgil did not put his whole pussy into every single line of it send POSTETA 1/20/23: so we all know this poem is a central pillar of my personality at this point rightETA 9/4/23: reread again for Aeneid Daily, which also involved reading (skimming. i'm not great at latin yet) the poem in latin, and holy shit, the better i get at latin, the more impressed i am by everything about vergil's poetry and the construction of this work. this poem and specifically the ending of this poem is so fucking good i am inconsolable
302795294	I'm not sure if this is the translation I read back when I did Classics at GCSE and A Level. It seems familiar, but of course, the story would be and two different close translations might still be similar. Anyway, with my course on Tragic Love in the Trojan War, I've had the urge to reread The Aeneid all term.I can't imagine the loss to the world that it would have been if Vergil's wishes had been carried out when it came to the burning of the manuscript. Parts of The Aeneid are just beautiful -- Homer's work has its own vitality and its own robust beauty, but not the polish of Vergil's work. There's a lot of gorgeous metaphors and similes here, things that work just right, and moments of tenderness that you wouldn't expect in the middle of what is admittedly a rather gory epic. Aeneas' attempts to embrace his dead (and therefore ghostly) wife and father are just, oh, and the little touches of humanity we get from a lot of the characters -- Amata pleading with Turnus to stay safe, Lavinia blushing, Dido falling so hopelessly in love...It's an incredibly rich text and there's so much to enjoy about it. I should read a good poetic translation at some point -- I think I own one -- but in the meantime even the prose translation, which I imagine was far from an ideal way to translate Vergil's intentions, is lovely.
1204127938	I have always loved this poem. This is argueabely the best poem ever written. This poem was composed by Virgil a poet from 29 BCE. I enjoyed this translation very much. I recommend this book to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
2178082199	Disclaimer: I rushed/skimmed through this for a Greek Mythology course.It was interesting to read an epic that centered around Roman history and mythology rather than Greek.Will probably reread at some point. Recommended for lovers of classics and mythology. 3.25
2213426667	Quanto mais Poemas Épicos leio mais me convenço da nossa irrealidade, ou da nossa capacidade para criar, literalmente, a realidade em que vivemos. Estes poemas são a base cultural de toda a sociedade Ocidental, nascidos da oralidade, sobreviventes pelo registo em texto, formadores de grande parte da história antiga que hoje conhecemos, ou da nossa Mitologia. Temos deuses que agem como humanos, e temos humanos que seriam especiais por serem filhos desses deuses, temos espaços e eventos imaginados que serviram o perpetuar da imaginação desses tempos até aos nossos dias. Ler estes poemas é uma experiência distinta e exótica, porque se é tudo fantasia, dando conta de grandes irrealidades, é ao mesmo tempo tudo História, pedras de texto efetivas que sustentam toda a nossa literatura, toda a nossa cultura, tudo aquilo que somos hoje.[Ler texto com imagens no VI em https://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/...]"Eneias foge de Troia que Arde" (1598) de Federico Barocci, (Abertura do Livro I)Para compreender a ideia basta pensar no facto de Troia não ter nunca existido enquanto cidade, nem sequer enquanto reino. Que os seus criadores e reis, filhos de Deuses, naturalmente também nunca existiram. Contudo quando realizamos pesquisas sobre os mesmos, as suas histórias desenrolam-se em teias de infinitos detalhes, elementos captados de uma miríade de artefactos criados ao longo de milénios, não apenas textos — nomeadamente o chamado Ciclo Épico do qual fazem parte os poemas basilares da "Ilíada" e "Odisseia" e ainda um conjunto de outros poemas semi-destruídos ou perdidos — registos de histórias orais, mas também imagens — desenhadas em vasos e frescos — e muitas esculturas que foram servindo a construção de mitos, a sua promoção e distribuição, e depois a sua preservação até aos nossos dias. As várias cidades e povos confundem-se entre realidade e mito — Troia, Dardânia, Esparta, Itaca, Grécia Antiga, Roma Antiga, etc. — com personagens que fundem deuses — os doze deuses gregos: Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Atena, Ares, Deméter, Apolo, Ártemis, Hefesto, Afrodite, Hermes e Dioniso; e os correspondentes doze deuses romanos: Júpiter, Juno, Neptuno, Minerva, Marte, Ceres, Febo, Diana, Vulcano, Vénus, Mercúrio e Baco — e humanos — Menelau, Helena, Paris, Heitor, Aquiles, Agamemnon, Ulisses, Eneias, Priamo, Turno, Latino, etc. Nem sequer os criadores escapam a esta fusão entre ficção e realidade, desde logo com a dúvida sobre Homero: terá existido?; e se existiu terá escrito a “Ilíada” e a “Odisseia”?; e se escreveu não seriam estas apenas histórias orais criadas ao longo de milénios precedentes?[imagem]Eneias carregando Anquises, vaso de 470 A.C.A “Eneida” tem uma génese menos complexa, mais tradicional, já que surge como encomenda por parte do imperador Augusto a Virgilio. 600 anos depois da "Ilíada" e "Odisseia" um poeta numa sociedade, a romana, que preservava muito os registos e por isso temos muito mais conhecimento sobre o que se passou, tenta responder à génese de Itália partindo de Troia. Mas porquê voltar a Troia, é a dúvida com que se fica, mais ainda pelo facto de Augusto pedir a Virgilio uma história que simbolizasse o nascimento de Itália, como é que então essa história poderia apresentar um estrangeiro, vindo de Troia, a derrubar os Latinos. É verdade que Augusto põe fim à República e inicia o Império, tornando-se no primeiro Imperador de Roma, mas ainda assim Augusto era filho de Roma, não tinha qualquer conexão com o exterior. Augusto terá pedido um texto com as qualidades da “Ilíada” e “Odisseia”, para enaltecer cantando o poder do imperador, o que mostra também o lado propagandístico destes Poemas Épicos. Mas Virgilio responde a esse dilema criando uma nova ramificação no mito de Eneias: a cidade de Troia teria sido fundada por Dardano, que segundo os mitos romanos seria originário de Itália.É preciso esclarecer que apesar de arma de propaganda, se a “Eneida” sobreviveu, não como texto escrito mas como parte do nosso imaginário cultural, deve-o mais a Virgilio e menos a quem o pediu e pagou, desde a estrutura à qualidade poética. No primeiro campo, Virgílo dividiu o seu poema em duas partes: na primeira (Livro I a VI) temos a jornada de Eneias para Itália, colado ao regresso de Ulisses de Troia para Itaca, espelhando assim a narrativa da “Odisseia”; na segunda metade (Livro VII a Livro XII) temos a luta entre Eneias e Turno, numa aproximação à luta entre Aquiles e Heitor, e assim emulando a “Ilíada”. Esta colagem não é meramente estrutural, Virgilio socorre-se das estruturas de Homero para elaborar novas linhas narrativas, não apenas dando conta da relação entre o fim de Troia e o nascimento de Itália, mas também porque vai relacionar toda a ficção mitológica com factos reais do seu tempo, servindo os interesses de Augusto, mas servindo-nos também enquanto registo histórico.Parte 1: Jornada para ItáliaI - Eneias naufraga ao largo de CartagoII - Eneias narra a Dido o último dia de TroiaIII - Eneias narra a Dido as suas viagens rumo à ItáliaIV - Os amores de Dido e seu fim trágicoV - Os jogos fúnebresVI- Descida de Eneias ao Mundo dos Mortos Parte 2: Guerra em ItáliaVII- Chegada ao LácioVIII- Evandro. Descrição do escudo de EneiasIX- Ataque ao acampamento troianoX- Façanhas e morte de PalanteXI- Funerais dos guerreiros.XII- Combate de Eneias e de Turno.[imagem]"Eneias derrota Turno" (1688) Luca Giordano (Fecho do Livro XII)Impressiona ver como um texto escrito séculos depois, retoma personagens, eventos e factos, para dar vida a uma nova narrativa capaz de suster o nosso interesse, e foi isso que me levou a questionar de onde vinha tudo isto, como e porquê. A resposta volta sempre a um mesmo local, a imaginária Troia, cidade na Terra nascida da vontade de deuses, envolta numa guerra de 10 anos alimentada por esses mesmos deuses, que defendiam lados diferentes (como se pôde ver na “Ilíada”). Este mundo ficcional terá então surgido na forma oral, discutindo-se ainda hoje se a “Ilíada” e a “Odisseia” não teriam surgido na forma de poema por serem estruturas mais dadas à memorização de quem os relatava oralmente. Aos dois grandes poemas, outros se juntam ainda na forma de poemas épicos mas entretanto perdidos — Nostoi, Telegonia ou Titanomaquia, formando o que se chama hoje de Ciclo Épico. Se estes apontam para o período VIII a VI A.C., passados quatro séculos voltaríamos a encontrar menções ao mesmo universo, alargando as suas histórias, já não meramente na forma oral mas como performance teatral, nas tragédias de Sófocles, Ésquilo e Euripedes. E passados outros tantos séculos, Virgilio retoma Troia, agora na forma textual, para ampliar a mitologia já numa abordagem romana.[imagem]Mapa homérico. Mostra a bacia que coloca frente a frente a Grécia e a Turquia, onde ficaria a cidade de Troia, podendo ver-se os locais onde foram morrendo os vários heróis. FonteLer a “Eneida” requer pelo menos a leitura da “Ilíada” e “Odisseia”, e alguma pesquisa histórico-mitológica, porque só assim o que vamos lendo ganha sentido. No fundo falamos do primeiro grande artefacto transmedia. Se o universo original era oral, e tinha já sido expandido na forma teatral, foi Virgilio quem lhe deu forma textual, e assim espalhou a história de Troia por três meios diferentes, ainda que hoje a eles todos possamos aceder em texto. Por outro lado, o que se conta está intimamente ligado ao que já foi contado mas vai para além do mesmo, dando conta da premissa base de qualquer obra transmedia, que é a expansão narrativa. Repare-se como a "Eneida" não se limita a expandir num sentido sequencial, por exemplo na viagem para Itália, Eneias passa por alguns locais por onde Ulisses tinha passado, encontrando não apenas personagens desse locais, como encontrando um amigo de Ulisses deixado para trás na sua luta contra os Ciclopes, funcionando como um grande momento transmedia, pela recompensa narrativa que oferece em explicações adicionais sobre eventos ocorridos numa outra narrativa.[vídeo]"Troia" (2014) de Wolfgang PetersenMas Troia não se fica pela Oralidade, Teatro e Texto, ao longo dos séculos e desde muito cedo, foram sendo criadas imagens em vasos e frescos, ainda que mais ilustrativas, assim como esculturas, não só de personagens mas de cenas complexas, e se quisermos, como cereja em cima de todo este bolo, passados mais de 27 séculos o universo continua vivo, tendo sido ainda no ano de 2004, posto em cena, num filme que por não querer versar apenas sobre um dos poemas, foi dedicado a "Troia", e junta nele mesmo várias histórias espalhadas por vários textos. E se existe quem tenha apontado erros de leitura histórica ao filme, eu, e na senda do transmedia que refiro acima, vejo esses erros mais como parte da continuada expansão narrativa desse universo imortal.[imagem]Pequeno apanhado que fiz do universo transmedia desenvolvido em redor do tema da Guerra de TroiaE por fim, e porque a ficção/realidade é nestas leituras uma constante imensidão imaginária, e porque este texto é sobre a “Eneida” e Virgilio, não podemos esquecer que se Virgilio foi um dos grandes impulsionadores da mitologia, ao preservar e estender o Universo de Troia, ele próprio acabaria por tornar-se personagem ficcional e principal de um outro grande épico, que a estes se liga, escrito 1500 anos depois, a “Divina Comédia” de Dante, que conto ler de seguida.Publicado com imagens e links no VIhttps://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/...
7580203754	This was my first time through the Aeneid. I chose to use a prose translation (by David West) though I may later reread it in poetry. Knowing the Iliad and Odyssey are indispensable background to reading the Aeneid, so if you have not read those two, then start with them and move on to the Aeneid.
4171296409	The Aeneid by Virgil, translated by Shadi Bartsch, attempts to stay as close to the original as possible by adhering to a line-by-line correspondence, approximating Virgil’s meter, remaining within his six beats to a line, and maintaining his simplicity of language without losing his effects of alliteration and assonance. As Bartsch declares in her introduction, her goal was to make it accessible to the general public while simultaneously adhering faithfully to the original. She includes an Introduction which provides context for the poem, its reception, character analysis, and commentary. Also included is a Translator’s Note which explains the challenges and choices she made in translating, her Notes, a Bibliography, and a Glossary. Bartsch’s translation is impressive, her scholarship extensive. She offers a different reading experience of the Aeneid that makes evident the ambiguity, nuances, and subtlety of language and characterizations. Her notes are helpful in highlighting the contradictions within the poem and in interrogating the character of Aeneas. She has performed an invaluable service to reading the classic by opening it up to new interpretations and meanings while remaining faithful to the original.My book reviews are also available at www.tamaraaghajaffar.com
5391678260	Un capolavoro senza tempo e senza confini! ✨️Facevano più che bene i contemporanei di Virgilio e poi i successivi letterati a definire il poeta di Mantova il "nuovo Omero"!Partendo dagli esempi dell'Iliade e dell'Odissea, il Vate crea le avventure di Enea, il suo arrivo nella bella e feconda Esperia e la successiva fondazione della stirpe romana!Rispetto a Omero Virgilio è, a mio avviso, di un livello superiore perchè da maggior risalto psicologico ai personaggi e crea figure femminili di tutto rispetto (Didone, Amata, Camilla, Giunone) solo Lavinia, il casus belli tra Troiani e Rutuli-Latini, rimane nell'ombra ed è un vero peccato.E pensare che Virgilio voleva distruggere la sua opera perché quando morì non aveva avuto modo di revisionarla..grazie Augusto che hai salvato questo capolavoro!Da leggere e rilegge a tutte le età per carpire significati che a una prima lettura possono sfuggire
1780510190	Aeneis had a rougher time after Troy than Ulysses it seems. He literally goes to hell and back before legendarily founding Rome. His story I read in Latin in high school (Arma virumque cano!) and then later in English translation in high school. Of the great Trojan texts, these was my least favourite and yet I still give it five stars for the realism and beauty of Virgil's text (Latin was rather inflexible and yet Virgil coaxed such gorgeous text out of it) and for the incredible influence this has had on western literature ever since - Dante in particular was so impressed that he chose Virgil as his guide through Inferno and Purgatorio (even if, being a pagan, he ultimately barred him from Paradiso :(Once you have read Iliad and Odyssey, you owe yourself to complete the Trojan aftermath with Aeneid.
2573101027	Finally! I read The Aeneid for the first time. I do think it is helpful to have read the Iliad and Odyssey first. I enjoyed the first part of this book especially as it fills in those stories. I think Virgil does a fine job of imitating Homer, and I do not fault him for it, but in the end it is a little less epic, though generally easy to follow. I will now try to get around to reading it in print rather than audio, using a different translation. I did enjoy Charlton Griffin's narration as always.
3211689926	Interessante la struttura del libro, con la prima metà che mostra la parte finale della personale Odissea di Enea e degli esuli troiani mentre la seconda è una sorta di Iliade sull'arrivo di Enea nel Lazio.Molto bella la parte di Didone, ma qui sono di parte visto che l'adoravo anche ai tempi del liceo, quando mi ero imparato a memoria la maledizione di Didone, alcune parti invece parecchio lente e noiose.Ma proprio di queste parti lente e noiose, con le descrizioni di infiniti personaggi teucri o latini e dei loro avi o, più raramente, discendenti, si può ben comprendere il senso: essendo infatti l'Eneide l'opera che doveva sia legittimare il potere di Ottaviano Augusto, sia rinsaldare il popolo romano dandogli un'unità nata dall'epica e da un passato divino, presagio della gloria in arrivo, è chiaro l'intento di far discendere più gens possibili direttamente ad antichi eroi greci e italiani, più o meno semidivini.Però, c'è un enorme problema.Il lavoro era incompiuto alla morte di Virgilio, e si vede.C'è da sperare che prima di pubblicarlo l'autore avrebbe sistemato qualche cosuccia di poco conto, tipo il personaggio di Enea. Che va bene, è in missione per conto degli Dèi col compito di arrivare nel Lazio e creare una città da cui discenderà il glorioso e potentissimo impero romano.Ma risulta di una piattezza unica e imbarazzante, soprattutto se messo a confronto con gli eroi omerici.Achille mosso dall'ira funesta per il torto subito e poi per la morte di Patroclo, Enea alla disperata difesa di Troia, Ulisse con la sua storia e il suo desiderio (più o meno) di tornare a casa.Ed Enea?Enea abbonda di pietas, e si china al volere degli Dèi.Quindi raduna la gente, la famiglia e i penati e parte con le navi per l'occidente. Perché glielo hanno detto gli dèi. Quelli che dopo aver deciso che Troia doveva morire, gli hanno anche fatto uccidere la moglie giacché serviva arrivasse celibe in Italia, che sennò come fai a legarti con le popolazioni indegene?Giunone lo mette per anni fuori strada, ma ogni volta riparte perché glielo dicono gli dèi.Arriva a Cartagine, gli vengono praticamente consegnati la città, il trono e il cuore di Didone su un piatto d'oro e lui ci si trova bene. Ma Venere gli fa sapere che non è il caso, deve proseguire. E lui molla tutto e va, lasciando Didone a disperarsi e gettando i semi delle future guerre tra le due nazioni. Lui chiaramente non versa una lacrima, non si arrabbia: lo vogliono gli dèi, quindi esegue.Arriva in Italia: di nuovo, le sue azioni sono sempre l'esecuzione di ordini divini. Un automa. Non mostra rimorsi, rimpianti, dolore. Solo quando si tratta del vecchio padre diventa una persona reale, per il resto è bidimensionale, una marionetta mossa dalle divinità.Sensazione acuita dal fatto che lo scontro finale (che pure, essendo nominalmente Enea un eroe troiano di primo piano, non sarebbe dovuto essere in dubbio) è decisa dalle manovre divine. Tipo fiaccare l'avversario indebolendolo e stordendolo.Non posso dire di aver apprezzato troppo questo libro, del resto è una gigantesca opera di marketing (forse una delle prime?) e ci insegna che se un autore giudica un testo ancora da limare e perfezionare, probabilmente quell'autore può avere ragione.
3840337191	I really struggled with the Aeneid the first time I listened to it. I didn't really *hear* it. I wonder if part of that was the presentation? I don't know. I do know that, as my friend said, it felt like Fan Fiction and state glorification and it annoyed me. I had started off well enough but I will admit to being offended on Dido's part and that coloring the rest of my hearing. I did not have any sympathy for Aeneas. I didn't like it.I knew that was a problem. It would not have lasted these 2000+ years being this important in Western literature if that was all it was. It must have grasped the imaginations of generations of people - who am I to stand judge over it? Also, I know next on my list is the Divine Comedy and Virgil (or Vergil) is an important character - how could I enjoy that when I disliked this so much? So, I asked for advice on the Literary Life Podcast Discussion Group on Faceboook and someone reminded me of Dr Elizabeth Vandiver's lectures on the Aeneid. We had listened to her Classical Mythology lectures last year and greatly enjoyed them. She is a clear lecturer and manages to impart a great deal of information in the short, 30 minute lectures. I purchased them and began again. It made all the difference. I've already explained on my review of those lectures how I alternated, so I won't rehash that here.Part of my issues on the first reading, as I said above, was that after Book 4, I really had no sympathy with Aeneas. Dr Vandiver helped to see more sides to that; I still more strongly resonate with Dido and strongly pity her, but I can see from a larger view the thinking and way fate held onto Aeneas (who handled things badly) that he was more pitiable than initially I had thought. The lectures also helped me to separate Aeneas' descent into Hades from that of Odysseus. To see it with different eyes and to anticipate Dante's visit. I think a second reading on its own may have helped, and I'm glad I did them close together, but I'm quite certain that Dr Vandiver's guidance made the biggest difference in my listening. The first time I kind of dreaded starting each book; the second, I struggled to stop listening.
7297001615	Adventurous.The Aeneid is an epic adventure of sailing in the Mediterranean, storms on the high seas, shipwrecks, romance, suicide, battles and wars. The fate of the heroes, the villains, the weather and the narrative are always determined by the clever and cunning manipulations of the Olympus gods. A thrilling read.
7442465691	➳ 3.75 ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚╰┈➤ ”do the gods light this fire in our hearts or does each man's mad desire become his god?”dido my queen 🙇‍♀️i think i enjoyed this one more than the illiad and the odyssey! the story was super cool and it was really interesting translating all the greek gods names to the roman ones. dido and camilla are icons and i loved them. and pallas and aeneas reminded me a lot of achilles and patroclus. also i liked all of the underworld stuff and the hercules references!!overall for being a required read it wasn’t too bad even though i’m glad to be done yk 🤭 ୧ ‧₊˚ 🍓 ⋅ ☆
4328358816	Cedite, Romani scriptores, cedite Graii; Nescio quid maius nascitur IliadeOve je reči („sklanjajte se, rimski pisci, sklanjajte se, grčki; rađa se nešto velebnije od Ilijade") Propercije uskliknuo kada je pročitao „Eneidu“. Ja ništa manje nisam bio uzbuđeniji. Štaviše, nijedno me delo nije ovako raspomamilo posle čitanja Bijesni Rolando pre četiri godine. Doduše, sada sam pred sobom imao četiri prevoda, među kojima je razlika od „tričavih“ 107 godina“. Najstariji prevod dr Nikole Vulića iz 1907. godine je prozan, jer prevodilac nije imao nameru da Vergilijeve stihove u daktilskom heksametru, koji nisu rimovani, naravno, ispisuje u stihovnoj formi, već je to učinio kao prozni tekst (slično kao što je i Iso Kršnjavi učinio sa prevodom Danteove Božanstvene komedije, koja je, otprilike, vršnjak ovom Vulićevom prevodu). Najnoviji prevod prof. Marjance Pakiž iz 2014. je u metrici koja je skoro identična originalu (o samom prevodu i obilju zanimljivosti, profesorka je govorila u emisiji na RTS2, emitovanoj u februaru 2015. godine, koja se može poslušati na ovoj stranici: https://www.rts.rs/page/radio/sr/stor...). Oba prevoda su potkrepljena obiljem objašnjenja ispod samog teksta, kao i indeksom na kraju knjige, i vrlo su slični – što će reći da je prevod dr Vulića toliko dobar da je i nakon 114 godina svež i jasan (ako se izuzme pravopis koji je, u međuvremenu, zastareo). Hrvatski prevod čuvenog dr Bratoljuba Klaića iz 1970. je obilato poetičan, na mahove poprilično slobodan, a u poslednja dva pevanja čak i rimovan! On je to potkrepio svojom prevodilačkom slobodom i opravdao da se lepota epa nije time narušila. Uživao sam ekstatično u sva tri prevoda, mahnito ih paralelno čitajući i zapisujući razlike. Četvrti prevod Mladena Atanasijevića iz 1964. mi je najslabiji. Takođe, ne postoji niti jedan komentar uz stihove, što je, kada je u pitanju antika, veliki propust. Budući da se svetonazori savremenog čitaoca i antičkih slušalaca poprilično razlikuju. Elem, sve ono što me u čitanju čini srećnim i razonodi i slatko muči sadržano je u „Eneidi“ (i u antičkim delima, uopšte, pa i u srednjovekovnim): izostanak preteranog opisa fizičkog izgleda samih likova (osim njihove vojne odežde ili opreme), tako da svako ko čita pred sobom će imati drugačije zamišljen lik (što je fenomenalno), obilje pozivanja na prethodna dela i navođenje odatle poznatih likova bez ikakvog njihovog objašnjenja (danas bi to podveli pod plagijat), što čitaoca tera da dodatno istražuje, dočitava, promišlja (kod mene su to otvorene knjige po čitavom stolu plus mape obavezno), obilje mitologije koja je neodvojivi deo tog sveta i sam način pripovedanja koji je izveden iz oralnog napeva ili priče, a koji ja vrlo cenim. „Eneida“ je, moglo bi se reći, nastavak Homerove „Odiseje“ (tj. onoga što je bilo nakon pada Troje), budući da je Eneja, onaj o kome spev peva, već poznat odonud. Ergo, sin Venerin (Afroditin) i pastira Anhiza. Voljen od Jupitera, Apolona, Neptuna, Kibele i mnogih drugih, ali trn u oku Junoni, večito kivnoj, što na Jupitera (kome je i sestra i žena) i njegovih promiskuitetnih epizoda, što na smrtnike koji to isto na gornjem svetu čine. Gonjena besom zbog Jupiterovog proročanstva da će jedan od Teukra, Dardanovog soja, doći u Italiju da tamo trojansko seme posadi, ona će sve učiniti da skrene tok tog proročanstva i Enejinu sudbinu premesti u Libiju. Time se i otvara prvi deo epa, u morskoj oluji, opervaženoj Junoninim besom, koju će potkrepiti Eol vetrovima svojim a ublažiti Neptun, smirujući talase koji o hridi porazbijaše veći deo Enejine flote. Sedam su godina od pada Troje oni vrludali morima i na kraju dospeli do Kartagine koja se tek gradila pod Didoninom vlašću. Od početka, pa do poslednjeg pevanja, Enejina će majka Venera konstantno upadati u nesuglasice i protivurečiti besnoj Junoni, štiteći (kao i u trojanskom ratu) svoga sina od boginjinog besa. U toj će se ulozi, često i „zaigrati“, pa svome sinu medveđu uslugu napraviti. Jednim je takvim činom – obrativši se Amoru da ljubav između Didone i Eneje potpiri napravila obrt koji će odrediti dalji tok epa. Upravo je to pevanje najlirskije i, praktično, antička ljubavna priča i vapaj neviteški ostavljene žene koja u agoniji ljubavnih jada oduzima sebi život. No, to se Enejino mučko bežanje pod okriljem noći može opravdati višim ciljem – Jupiter mu je preko Merkura odaslao poruku da njegova sudbina nije da začami u Kartagini, već da u Laciju osnuje novi grad, čime se okončava prvi deo speva. Prosto je nemoguće da ovde ne povučem paralelu između Tolkinovog Tuora i Eneje: obojica su miljenici bogova, obojica su u jednom delu života bili odmetnici, obojici bogovi šalju znake i daruju oružje i obojici je dodeljena uloga heroja nacije (plemena). Drugi deo speva je refleksija „Ilijade“ i to Vergilije nagoveštava odmah na početku novim zazivanjem muze (što će učiniti još jedanput u drugoj polovini drugog dela, kada će hiperbolično opisivati bitke) čime otvara Enejin dolazak kod kralja Latina kome je zaštitnik Faun prorekao da će mu zet biti neko izvan njegovog roda. Zaista, kao i u „Ilijadi“, i ovde je povod bitke lepo žensko čeljade – Lavinija, ćerka kralja Latina, koja je u čitavom epu nagoveštaj, koprena tek neotelotvorena, osim kada se suze liju nakon silnih muževa izginulih. Bezbrojni su i nepregledni Vergilijevi ushićeni opisi oklopa, oružja, konjice i držanja ratnika koji u boj kreću i krvavih bitaka koje će se, potom, odigrati radi odbrane/osvajanja date teritorije, sve dok Eneja Turnu „mač od besa sav kipteći zari pravo u srce. A onome udovi klonuše hladni, s teškim mu uzdahom nevoljno potonu duša međ seni.“Moj subjektivan sud je da mi je prvi deo epa raskošniji, zamršeniji, dinamičniji, raznovrsniji i interesantniji nego drugi, prvenstveno zbog rimske mitologije koja se živa, in situ, odvija pred očima čitaoca, i praktično i utemeljeno dočarava ono što je u nekim drugim mitologijama suvoparno prepričavano. Pored božanstava, prvi deo speva obiluje i drugim, „pomoćnim“ mitološkim bićima i prikazama, budući da Eneja u Didoninom dvoru pripoveda naširoko njihovu odiseju od Troje do Sicilije, odakle ih je Eolov vetar naneo do Kartagine. Takođe, živo su prikazani (ko ume da prepozna) originalni opisi rituala prilikom posvećivanja žrtvi božanstvima radi uslišenja neke molbe, i čitav tok obreda oko žrtvenika, kao i mnogobrojna čuda koja se oko njih i na drugim svetim mestima dešavaju. Šesto pevanje je čitavo posvećeno Enejinom silasku u Tartar i vrlo će ga Dante u svom „Paklu“ na nekoliko mesta citirati i koristiti te motive (uostalom, nije slučajno baš Vergilija izabrao da mu bude vođ kroz pakao i deo čistilišta).Uopšteno uzev, budući da sam se sa „Eneidom“ na kratko sreo u Gimnaziji pre 21 godinu, i da sam je od tada, ne znam kako, potisnuo u neki ugao sećanja i da je odatle isplivala tokom čitanja Apostola samoće – biografskih tekstova o Isidori Sekulić, gde se na nekoliko mesta pominje koliko je ona volela Vergilija i Propercija, nije bilo dileme da treba da se vratim „Eneidi“. Malo je reći da sam uživao – ova stanja koja sam svega nekoliko puta doživeo čitajući neko delo (Silmarilion, The Mabinogion, Bijesni Rolando pa i Gormenghast) su ravna ekstazi u koju vrač ili proročica upadaju pre nego što „uspostave“ vezu sa onostranim. I pored sve težine koju ovakvo delo nosi, i koje traži potpunu i nenarušenu koncentraciju i dodatno pretraživanje i dočitavanje iz drugih dela (što je za mene uvek odlika odlične knjige), ja je preporučujem svima kojima se iole svidela „Odiseja“ ili „Ilijada“.
548944731	First time rereading since college over ten years ago, and I enjoyed it far more than I did then. I'll need a good guide to do anything more than scratch the surface of this epic, but one thing I can see is why the early church fathers and Dante held Virgil in high esteem. The gospel images are unmistakable, especially with exiles finding their promised land and the bridegroom fighting for his bride. Regarding translation, the Mandelbaum flows nicely and comes recommended by people I trust.(The Literary Life Podcast 2024 Reading Challenge – The Ancients)
1951755353	Having just read this Masterpiece of Western Civilization, even in a translation in very questionable modern Greek of the '50s, made me realize that I should be using the word "Epic" in describing other books less frequently. This is the first and only Epic I have ever read in my miserable life.
1177419804	"Audentes fortuna iuvat.""Even so far awayGreat valor has due honor; they weep hereFor how the world goes, and our life that passesTouches their hearts. Throw off your fear. This fameInsures some kind of refuge." - From Book 1Finally I have completed a literary project I set out for myself. I decided in December 2017 to do a read of The Iliad, The Odyssey, and The Aeneid. I am glad I took my time in reading these three epic poems. I have had some interesting feelings on all three poems. Between these three, I think The Iliad was the best one though I had my criticisms and I really feel The Odyssey to be overrated and having one of the most un-likeable protagonists in literature. This poem is my personal favorite, even if I can say The Iliad was objectively better. There's so much to talk about with this poem. It is propaganda, fan-fiction, it is a cliff notes history; yet, it is something special in its own right. The author, Virgil, was a real man and not a legendary composite of oral traditions and scribes writing out of the Greek Dark Ages about a time hundreds of years before like Homer. I guess it is interesting to see how the virtues of Mycenae Greece compared to the era of Rome's first Emperor Caesar Augustus. Now, I am not going to sit around and just praise the "virtues" of a imperialist, reactionary, slave-society like Rome, but it was still 1000x better than Mycenae Greece (aka The Bronze Age). This meant that though the action of The Iliad & The Aeneid take place around the same time (the 1200s to 1100s B.C.), they reflect different standards, cultures, and virtues, and histories. "In war there's no salvation." - From Book 11.In the the 20th book of The Iliad it is prophecized that Aeneas would survive the Trojan War and possibly move back to the land of his Trojan fore-fathers in Italy. This was all Virgil needed to set this story. He, along with other poets of Caesar Augustus' reign, had been commissioned by the first emperor to make propaganda legitimizing the empire and Augustus himself. Now, it was generally expected a few bland lines sticking to the party lines was good enough, but Virgil decided to go one step further and create a national epic that glorified not just the Empire, but Italy as a whole. When we reach the middle of this poem (Book6), time breaks down as we are seeing into the "future" as much as we are looking at the past and present. This poem is an attempt to explain the history of Rome up until 19 B.C. Even when the history of Rome and the Julii family is not being fore-told we have allusions to all the major figures of Rome in this poem. The justifications of the Punic Wars and the triumph of the Julii clan in the civil wars are all laid-out in this poems. Of course this includes the story of Dido and the set-up of the Punic Wars. Dido is Virgil's analogue of Calypso, Nausciaa, and Circe wrapped-up into one and may be the most memorable character of the book (she even gets an opera about her).Dido's Lament by Jessye NormanOkay, now to give my impressions; Part of the special connection of this poem is that I first read excerpts of it a few months after the death of my grandfather while I was in my last semester of university. Coming along to Book 2 (the Fall of Troy) and the scenes with Aeneas and his father (and wife for that matter) always feels my heart with grief when I think on it. Another thing about this poem that I really appreciate is how much relatively better women are treated in it compared to Homer. Now, this poem is certainly not any kind of proto-feminist tract (slavery and misogyny abound), but it is WAY better than Homer in the way women are treated. In Homer, if you are a woman who is not a Goddess, you are treated equally to livestock. The women of the Trojan court get some good scenes--especially Hector's wife Andromache, but the poem is clear that a woman that asserts any agency is a bad thing (unless she is a goddess in disguise). We won't even mention The Odyssey's handling of women--mortal and goddess. It is only with Virgil that we see some reprieve from this ultra-misogyny. Though Homer makes good use of Minerva/Athena* (since this is a Roman work I will introduce Pantheon characters with both Roman and Greek names then continue referring to them by the Roman names), Virgil uses way more female characters not simply as cross-dressing Goddesses, but as regular women and, most importantly for me, as openly-female warriors. The poem's main antagonist is Juno/Hera and she is opposed not simply by Jupiter/Zeus, but by Aeneas' goddess mother Venus/Aphrodite. Venus serves Aeneas and the Trojans in the same way Minerva served the Acheans and Odysseus/Ulysses (he's not a god, but still gets a Latin-name for some reason). Minerva makes a small cameo appearance, but is mostly absent. Juno though is fully present trying to stop Aeneas from establishing Rome and laying the seeds for the Roman Empire. We have Dido and Carthage, which is important, but I was just like...cool. For me though, the best female character and possibly my favorite of this poem is Camilla of Volsci. She is a character modeled on the Amazons, but a strict devotee of Diana/Artemis, and the commander of the calvary that makes up the final effort to resist Aeneas' establishing himself in Italy. Just look at how she is introduced:"Besides all theseCamilla of the Volscian people came, Riding ahead of cavalry, her squadrons Gallant in bronze. A warrior girl whose hands Were never deft at distaff or wool basket, Skills of Minerva, she was hard and trainedTo take the shock of war, or to outrace The winds in running. If she ran full speed Over the tips of grain unharvested She would not ever have bruised an ear, or else She might have sprinted on the deep sea swellAnd never dipped her flying feet. To see her, Men and women pouring from the fields, From houses, thronged her passage way and stared Wide-eyed with admiration at the style Of royal purple, robing her smooth shoulders,Then at the brooch that bound her hair in gold, Then at the Lycian quiver that she bore And shepherd’s myrtle staff, pointed with steel."Like I said, Badass. She gets some of the best combat scenes in the poem besides Aeneas, Pallas, and Turnus. While her time in the poem is relatively brief, it is memorable. This type of character could not exist in Homer, but I am glad Virgil created her for this poem. She is treated in surprisingly respectful ways given the time this poem was written.Aeneas is presented as ultra-pious an noble. He loves his family, he loves Dido, but he is the embodiment of Roman pietas and his duty to the Gods over-rules all his other wants and desires. It is hard to distinguish where the propaganda begins and ends. The way war is treated here is more ambiguous than in Homer. I guess the context of Caesar Augustus wanting to stress a covert-peace policy for his regime and the fact that the Battle of Actium was not that long before this poem was written contributes to the tone of this work.In the end, this poem is as good as you will get with Roman literature. It is one of the great epic poems of world literature and I can see the place it holds in Italian and European literature. I am not going to be reading this over-and-over, but I am glad I have read it.
3330895923	So I had picked up various translations of the Aeneid over the years, was never too impressed by any of them, and figured this was just one of those classical texts that is respected rather than enjoyed (similar to, e.g., The Faerie Queene). Still, I would return to it every few years; and really the issue, I've now figured out, is that the Aeneid has been very unlucky in terms of English translators. I sat down and worked through them all, and the hit-or-miss ratio is just amazing. Dryden is . . . Dryden (I'm not even sure you could call it a translation?); Fagles is terrible; West is terrible; Lombardo is terrible; Fitzgerald is okay, though a bit stilted (and not entirely accurate); Kline is okay, though a bit too literal, etc.It turns out that the best translation, by far, is Mandelbaum's -- which, crucially, I hadn't yet stumbled across in my previous attempts -- such that all other translations can be safely ignored. My Latin is not what it once was, but I found the process to be similar to my recent comparison of Proust translations (my French is somewhat better, but still not amazing). In short, you don't need to be an expert in Latin or French or any other language to see (1) which English translator is more talented simply in terms of shaping the written word -- Fagles's translation of the Aeneid and Lydia Davis's translation of Swann's Way are travesties against the English language, entirely apart from their accuracy or lack thereof -- and then also (2) which translator is getting across the style/spirit/content/tone of the original while also avoiding stilted prose, sing-song verse, and the other standard problems with bad translations. Admittedly (2) is more difficult if you don't know the language especially well (e.g., I'm forced to trust translators of Japanese poetry, at a certain point), but not impossible. You can look at Proust's sentences and clearly see that Moncrieff has made an apt English version of them, even if the finer points of any translation are only clear to experts -- and so too for Mandelbaum, whose English verse is a remarkably clear and poetic version of Virgil's Latin. In my early twenties, before I had to learn German (in grad school), I had done this sort of non-expert comparison of translations of Hegel, Heidegger, and others, and my basic sense of which translations were good/accurate/readable was never refuted by my later expertise, though I certainly had a clearer understanding as I learned the language better. A. V. Miller's translation of Hegel's Phenomenology was obviously terrible when I was 21, and remained equally -- and in a way more deeply -- terrible when I was 31 (what kind of insane person translates Begriff as "notion"? Seriously?). This is not to say that beautiful translations are always the most faithful translations, but it happens far more than you might expect.
3261035108	"Discord is made perfect in the horror of war."
2341369269	-Otro de los grandes clásicos.-Edición en español (1999)Lo que nos cuenta. El libro La Eneida (publicación original: Aeneis, finales del siglo I antes de Cristo) es la recreación literaria del mito de la fundación de Roma, escrita en forma poética en el original y traducida tanto en prosa como en verso (esta edición en concreto, en prosa), centrada en el héroe troyano Eneas que, junto a otros supervivientes de la derrotada ciudad, emprende viaje en busca de un nuevo hogar.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
7398081297	Oprecht, dit boek heeft een speciaal plekje in mijn hart veroverd. And tbh, justice for Aeneas in boek 4??? Poor guy, ik had echt medelijden met hem. HET EINDE IS WEL CRAZY, LIKE IT JUST ENDS??? I mean, duh, maar hoezo 12 boeken lang voor gewoon, like, alleen dat??? Jup, het boek heeft zeker een indruk achtergelaten.
4935473142	Η Αινειάδα, πολύ κατώτερη από τα Ομηρικά έπη τα οποία ξεδιάντροπα αντιγράφει (ναι, και τα δύο) έχει και το κακό να είναι "στρατευμένη" τέχνη. Ο Βιργίλιος, σε αντίθεση με τον Όμηρο (τον όποιο Όμηρο) που καθότανε σε ένα βραχάκι με τον άνεμο να του δροσίζει το όσχεο και έδενε στίχους χωρίς να να τον απασχολεί τίποτε άλλο, πλέκει ξεδιάντροπα εγκώμια του ήδη θεοποιημένου Γάιου Ιούλιου και του Οκταβιανού Αυγούστου, σε σημείο που η μύτη του πρέπει να έγινε ανεξίτηλα καφέ.Όλο το έπος διέπεται από μια ρεβανσιστική παραφορά (Italians are the new Greeks), οι Ιταλοί είναι ο νέος εχθρός που οι Τρώες πρέπει να καθυποτάξουν για να πραγματώσουν το πεπρωμένο τους (γινόμενοι οι ίδιοι Ιταλοί στη συνέχεια), οι Έλληνες είναι ξοφλημένοι (κι ας είμαστε πλέον στην Ιταλία), τώρα θα δούνε τι θα πάθουνε (φυσικά με την εκ των υστέρων γνώση του Βιργίλου ότι η Ρώμη κατέκτησε την Ελλάδα).Το έργο, σε αντίθεση με τα Ομηρικά είναι... βαρετό, κουράζει σε αρκετά σημεία και αποτυγχάνει να δικαιολογήσει κίνητρα και συμπεριφορές, διεπόμενο από μια καταστροφική για την πλοκή τελεολογία: Ο Αινείας θα θριαμβεύσει, η Ρώμη θα γίνει κοσμοκράτειρα.Επίσης, στη συγκεκριμμένη έκδοση (παρά την πολύ καλή επιμέλεια), τα προλεγόμενα ξεφεύγουν και φτάνουν τις 130 σελίδες, όγκο που αντιστοιχεί σε πάνω από το 1/3 της Αινειάδας καθεαυτής, θυμίζοντας περισσότερο μονογραφία, παρά πρόλογο.ΑΚΟΛΟΥΘΕΙ ΠΕΡΙΛΗΨΗ ΤΗΣ ΑΙΝΕΙΑΔΑΣ ΩΣΤΕ ΝΑ ΜΗ ΜΠΕΙΤΕ ΣΤΟΝ ΚΟΠΟ ΝΑ ΤΗ ΔΙΑΒΑΣΕΤΕ:ΑινειάδαΒιβλίο πρώτοΟ Αινείας -ένας εντελώς δευτεροκλασάτος ήρωας των Τρώων, γιος της Αφροδίτης ο οποίος σε οποιαδήποτε σκηνή εμφανίζεται στην Ιλιάδα πρακτικά είναι για να τα βάλει με κάποιον ικανότερό του Έλληνα και να αναγκαστεί να τον σώσει κάποιος Θεός παίρνοντας τον μακριά- έχει φύγει από την Τροία και καταλήγει στην αυλή της Διδώς στην Καρχηδόνα, πρακτικά με… όλο του το βιός, γεγονός που γεννά υποψίες για τις συνθήκες κάτω τις οποίες έφυγε από την φλεγόμενη και δηούμενη πόλη.Επειδή η Αφροδίτη φοβάται για την τύχη του, στέλνει στη θέση του εγγονού της (και γιου του Αινεία), τον Έρωτα, για να κλέψει την καρδιά της βασίλισσας ώστε να μην κακοπάθει ο κανακάρης της. Ναι, ο Αινείας εκτός από όλο του το βίος (χρυσάφι, πέπλα και άλλες αηδίες) κατάφερε να διαφύγει με 20 καράβια από την Τροία παίρνοντας μαζί του και τον γιο του.Η Διδώ βλέπει τον Αιννεία με τον Έρωτα στην αγκαλιά, -νομίζει φυσικά ότι είναι ο γιος του- και κροταλίζουν οι ωοθήκες της. Το βιβλίο κλείνει πολύ λογικά με συμπόσιο, τραγούδι και ανάκλιντρα, ενώ περιμένουμε στην αρχή του δεύτερου βιβλίου να αρχίσει να εξιστορεί ο Αινείας τι συνέβη από την αναχώρηση του από την Τροία και μετά.Βιβλίο δεύτεροΟ Αινείας διηγείται την άλωση της Τροίας, το τέχνασμα του δούρειου ίππου το θάνατο του Λαοκόοντα και την απάτη του Σίνωνα. Ακολουθεί η δήωση της πόλης, η σφαγή του Πριάμου (την οποία παρακολουθεί σαν ηδονοβλεψίας) και η αναχώρηση του Αινεία από το παλάτι. Τυπική Ελληνίδα μάνα, η Αφροδίτη, του παραγγέλνει να πάει να μαζέψει την οικογένειά του και να σηκωθεί να φύγει πράγμα το οποίο συνετά ο Αινείας κάνει. Στο δρόμο βέβαια καταφέρνει πολύ βολικά ΝΑ ΧΑΣΕΙ ΤΗ ΓΥΝΑΙΚΑ ΤΟΥ, ενώ ξεδιάντροπα ισχυρίζεται ότι κάποια στιγμή εμφανίστηκε το φάντασμα της και πολύ εξυπηρετικά του είπε να σταματήσει να την γυρεύει και να σηκωθεί να φύγει. Έτσι λοιπόν ο Αινείας εγκαταλείπει την Τροία με τον πατέρα του, το γιο του, καθώς και... ένα πλήθος ανθρώπων, αντρών και γυναικών που περιέργως βρέθηκαν διαθέσιμοι για αναχώρηση σε μία πόλη που καιγόταν και όπου ελάμβανε χώρα ατελείωτη σφαγή. Τίμιο.Βιβλίο τρίτο Ο Αινείας και η συντροφιά του αναχωρεί με πλοία που ναυπήγησαν με την άνεσή τους (;;;) και μετά από μία σύντομη περιπλάνηση φτάνουν στο πρώτο μέρος που σκέφτονται ότι μπορεί να εγκατασταθούν αλλά απαίσιοι οιωνοί τους διώχνουν, κάτι που γίνεται ξανά και ξανά μέχρι που θα πάρουνε χρησμό από τον Έλενο για το που πρέπει τελικώς να φτάσουν, ενώ ξαναβλέπουν και τη δις χηρευσασα Ανδρομάχη. Ενδιάμεσα συναντάνε μέχρι και άρπυιες, morlocks, μαύρα ξωτικά και τρέπονται διαρκώς σε φυγή. Στο τέλος σε μία εντελώς χυδαία αντιγραφή του Ομήρου πλησιάζοντας τα στενά Σκύλλας και Χάρυβδης πέφτουν στο νησί των Κυκλώπων. Εκεί συναντάνε τον Αχαιμενίδη (όχι της Περσικής δυναστείας), ένα σύντροφο του Οδυσσέα -που ούτε ο ίδιος ο Οδυσσέας ήξερε οτι είχε, όστις έχει ξεμείνει στο νησί και φυτοζωεί και τους παρακαλάει είτε να τον πάρουν μαζί τους είτε να τον σκοτώσουν για να πεθάνει από ανθρώπου χέρια. Τους διηγείται ξανά την ιστορία της τύφλωσης του Πολύφημου και στο τέλος πανικόβλητοι όλοι μαζί σηκώνουν πανιά και φεύγουν από το νησί των Κυκλώπων μαζί με τον Αχαιμενίδη. Πάλι καλά δηλαδή που δεν συνέπεσαν με τον Οδυσσέα να κάνουνε κόντρες οι τριήρεις στο λιμάνι των Κυκλώπων. Ντροπή Βιργίλιε...Βιβλίο τέταρτοΚαθώς η διήγηση του Αινεία τελειώνει, η Διδώ έχει «στάξει» κυριολεκτικά για πάρτη του, έχει πάθει ψυχικό πέρα-δώθε και ταμτιριρί. Κάπου εκεί η Ήρα η οποία ακόμη δεν έχει ξεπεράσει το αντιτρωικό της κόλλημα και μένος, κάνει μία πονηρή πρόταση στην Αφροδίτη η οποία όμως (εγνωσμένη πόρνη και αυτή) καταλαβαίνει τι κρύβεται από πίσω και σκέφτεται πώς να ξεγλιστρήσει.Η Ήρα οργανώνει ένα περίεργο αναξεμπουρμπουλο, για να ξεμοναχιάσει Αινεία και Διδω σε μία σπηλιά και να κάνει γαμήλια κόλπα. Κι έτσι απλώνεται η Φήμη (το φ κεφαλαίο) ότι Αινείας και Δίδω παντρεύτηκαν. Η φήμη φτάνει στα αυτιά του Ιάρβα. Αυτός τα παίρνει λίαν ασχήμως εν κρανίω, με το πολύ λογικό σκεπτικό ότι ήρθε αυτή η κιουρία από το πουθενά της πουλήσαμε γη να στήσει το τσαρδί της να λαδώσει το άντερο της αυτής και των υπηκόων της και πήγαμε με δώρα μετά να της ζητήσουμε το χέρι σε γάμο και φάγαμε χυλόπιτα διπλόβραστη. Και τώρα έρχεται ο πάσα εις Αινείας, ο πουθενάς, ένα λιγούρι με σκούφο φρυγικό, με λυδικό φακιόλι που ζέχνει πατσουλί και τήνε παίρνει στο τσακ μπαμ; Όχι κύριε.Ακούει τη νίλα αυτή ο Δίας και στέλνει τον Ερμή να κράξει στεγνά τον Αινεία ως αιδοιοείλωτα που απαρνείται το πεπρωμένο του. Και φυσικά ο Αινείας ετοιμάζεται αμέσως να κάνει πανιά για άλλου, να γίνει Λούης, να πουλεύσει με την επόμενη άμπωτη.Η Διδώ μπορεί να είναι ερωτευμένη μέχρι τα μπούνια αλλά δεν είναι και κουτορνιθι και καταλαβαίνει αμέσως τη μηχανή. Πάει και βρίσκει το λεγάμενο και τον κεντάει διπλοβελονιά ερωτική και σπάραγμα/κλαούνα ότι τα φέρνει δύσκολα βόλτα γιατί δεν την πάνε ούτε η Λίβυοι, ούτε οι νομάδες ούτε οι Τύριοι, εξαιτίας του που χάλασε το καλό της όνομα. Και πολύ λογικά (not) τον παρακαλάει πριν φύγει να την γκαστρώσει, να έχει ένα μούλικο που του μοιάζει για να παίζει (!!!) -ό,τι διαβάσατε, δεν τα βγάζω από το μυαλό μου. Ο Αινείας δεν ντρέπεται καθόλου και της λέει κοίτα να δεις, καλά και ωραία μου φέρθηκες αλλά δεν φεύγω επειδή το θέλω, μου το ζητάνε οι θεοί sorry κιόλας (ντροπή του αντρικού φύλου), "γιατί ε να πάει, πε μου γιατί, ένε τούη ζωή μάρα παιδία", που τραγούδησαν χιλιετίες αργότερα οι Καλαβραίοι. Πολύ ψύχραιμα η Διδώ του απαντάει με ενα μακρόσυρτο ξεχεσιδι και κατάρες και πάει να την πέσει στην κάμαρά της. Ο Αινείας σκέφτεται να πάει να της κάνει γλύκες αλλά τελικά "δεν". Από την άλλη η Διδω, τρελό καψούρακι, μεταξύ μας, δεν την παλεύει και στέλνει την αδερφή της να πάρει μία αναβολή μη φύγει το παλικάρι, αλλά εκείνος έχει τσιμεντώσει και συνεχίζει να τη φτύνει με πτύελο κλάσεως "δίευρον". Κι όσο η Διδώ βάζει κακό στο νου της, ο Ερμής πάει στον Αινεία και του λέει "ψιτ, μαλάκα, la donna é mobile, κοπάνα τη σβέλτα όσο είναι καιρός" και ο Αινείας κόβει κάβους και χάνεται στα πέλαγα σαν το Ρόουντρανερ. Η Διδώ, παίρνει χαμπάρι τη φάση και τον στολίζει εξ αποστάσεως δέκα καντάρια καλιαρντά και κατάρες, ψιλολιγώνει μετά από τις θύμησες και όπως θα έκανε κάθε λογική γυναίκα πέφτει πάνω σε ένα σπαθί και ψοφαει, για να προλάβει να δει ο ακατανομαστος (Αινείας) τη νεκρική πυρά της από μακριά σε φάση "ΔΕ ΣΕ ΧΑΛΑΣΕ ΠΡΟΔΟΤΗ ΚΑΡΕΟΛΗ". Πάει και η αδελφή της και χτυπιέται λίγο, κάνει η Διδώ δύο τρεις φορές να σηκωθεί αλλά "δεν" και τη σπλαχνιζεται η Ήρα και στέλνει την Ίριδα να κόψει κάτι τρίχες (στο σταυρό που σας κάνω) και την αποτελεύει.Βιβλίο πέμπτοΤαφικοί αγώνες για τον Αγχιση που μας άφησε χρόνους, ενώ ανακαλύπτουμε ότι έχουν περάσει επτά χρόνια από την αναχώρηση από την Τροία και για να μη φανεί clopy paste από τον Όμηρο οι αγώνες περιλαμβάνουν μέχρι και λεμβοδρομιες και παρελάσεις λες και είμαστε στην εποχή του Ντούτσε. Επειδή όμως το copy-paste μοιραία θα εμφανιστεί, έρχεται η μορφή του Αγχίση και λέει στον Αινεία ότι πρέπει να κατέβει στον κάτω κόσμο, να συναντήσει το πνεύμα του Αγχίση, για να πάρει νέες οδηγίες για τη συνέχεια. Όποιος πει νέκυια reloaded θα τον μαλώσω.Βιβλίο έκτοΕπόμενη στάση: Κύμη Ιταλίας. Εδώ η λογοκλοπή ανοίγει το τούρμπο για να μην πω και το νίτρο.Ας πούμε απλώς ότι ο Αινείας κατεβαίνει στον κάτω κόσμο ο οποίος παρουσιάζεται σαν ένα απέραντο θεματικό πάρκο και τον περιηγείται με ξεναγό μία ιέρεια του Απόλλωνα. Εκεί πετυχαίνει και έναν νεκρό άταφο σύντροφο του (όπως ακριβώς ο Οδυσσέας στην νέκυια), ο οποίος πρέπει να ταφεί σωστά για να "περάσει απέναντι" και πιάνει ψιλή κουβεντούλα με την πεθαμένη Διδώ, την οποία προσπαθεί να πείσει ότι έφυγε λόγω της προσταγής των θεών (αλλά εκείνη όπως ακριβώς και ο Αίαντας στην Οδύσσεια του γυρνάει την πλάτη και φεύγει), με το Διηφοβο (πηδηχτής της Ωραίας Ελένης μετά το θάνατο του Πάρη) όστις του διηγείται τα καριολίκια της Ελένης που έφερε το Μενέλαο το βράδυ της άλωσης να τον σφάξει κοιμισμένο και στο τέλος με τον πατέρα του τον Αγχίση ο οποίος σε ένα παραλήρημα του αναλύει… το μεγαλείο της Ρώμης που θα προκύψει από τους απόγονους του Αινεία, κάποιοι εκ των οποίων θα είναι και παλιές ψυχές βαλμένες σε νέα σώματα και πολύ συνετά περνάει ένα άνευ προηγουμένου γλειψίδι γνωστούς και επιφανείς Ρωμαίους της εποχής του Βιργιλίου που θα μεγαλουργήσουν στο μέλλον (στο παρόν δηλαδή του ποιητή). Η αναχώρηση του Αινεία και της συντροφιάς του από τον Άδη γίνεται από την πύλη από φίλντισι από την οποία τα ψευδή όνειρα πηγαίνουν στον κόσμο των ανθρώπων (υπάρχει και η άλλη που είναι από κέρατο από την οποία βγαίνουν τα αληθινά όνειρα, τα συμπεράσματα δικά σας) και στη συνέχεια σαν να μην υπάρχει αύριο ορμάνε στα καράβια και την κοπανάνε με κατεύθυνση το λιμάνι της Καιήτης.Βιβλίο έβδομοΣε περίπτωση που δεν το ξέρετε η αινειάδα είναι Ιλιάδα και Οδύσσεια μαζί. Και σαμπουάν και κοντίσιονερ. Στο έβδομο βιβλίο ξεκινάει το Ιλιαδικό μέρος.Ο Αινείας και η παρέα του φτάνουν στο Λάτιο όπως έχει άλλωστε προοικονομηθεί. Εκεί κατευθείαν ο ντόπιος άρχοντας του τάζει το χέρι της κόρης του Λαβίνιας, πράγμα που προκαλεί την οργή της Ήρας.Η Ήρα καλεί την Αληκτώ, κάτι μεταξύ Ελληνίδας πεθεράς, Τζόαν Κόλινς στη δυναστεία και φρίκης του Κάτω κόσμου και της αναθέτει τη δουλειά να τους κάνει όλους άνω-κάτω.Η Αληκτώ πάει και ξεσηκώνει μέσα στον ύπνο του τον Τύρνο, που του είχαν άλλωστε ταξει τη Λαβίνια την κόρη την πολύφερνη και του εξηγεί το και το τα καθέκαστα, πήρανε άλλο σώγαμπρο ξενομερίτη, σε ντρόπιασαν και τα λοιπά και τα λοιπά.Ο Τύρνος πετάγεται μεσάνυχτα από τον ύπνο του και χωρίς καν να πιει καφέ μαζεύει τα όπλα του και πάει για μάχη.Στη συνέχεια σε μία ξετσίπωτη αντιγραφή του όμηρου έχουμε έναν «απόλογο» όπου αναφέρονται όλες οι φυλές οι φατρίες και οι τοπικοί ηγεμονίσκοι με τις ομαδούλες τους, οι θύρες των γηπέδων και οι σύνδεσμοι οπαδών και τα λοιπά που θα συμμετάσχουν στον πόλεμο. Λίγο πριν πάρει ο ύπνος τον αναγνώστη το βιβλίο τελειώνει.Βιβλίο όγδοοΕνώ Τύρνος μαζεύει το στρατό του, ο Αινείας δέχεται επίσκεψη από το Θεό του ποταμού Τίβερη όποιος κάτι του λέει για μία γουρούνα με 30 γουρουνάκια και ότι 30 χρόνια μετά ο γιος του θα χτίσει μία πόλη πού Άλβα θα είναι το όνομά της (δεν ξέρω τι έχει καπνίσει) και μετά επικεντρώνεται στα τρέχοντα, στον πόλεμο δηλαδή που ξεκινάει.Ακολουθώντας τις συμβουλές του Τίβερη, ο Αινείας πάει στον Πάλλαντα και με τέχνασμα τον κάνει φίλο και φυσικά ακολουθεί τσιμπούσι. Μετά το τσιμπούσι οι Τρώες ακούνε ένα ακόμη παραλήρημα για ένα άθλο του Ηρακλή και μετά... Ακολουθεί δεύτερο γεύμα και φυσικά ξανατρώνε! Στη συνέχεια ακολουθεί μάθημα ιστορίας με περιήγηση στα αξιοθέατα της περιοχής (!!!) και πέφτουν για ύπνο.Εν τω μεταξύ η Αφροδίτη σε μία άλλη τραγική αντιγραφή του Ομήρου, αγχωμένη για τον επερχόμενο πόλεμο στον οποίο προφανώς και θα συμμετάσχει ο γιος της Αινείας, πάει στον αρχικερασφόρο τον άντρα της τον Ήφαιστο και του κάνει γλύκες (αν κατάλαβα καλά το ψιλοκάθεται κιόλας) για να φτιάξει άρματα στο γιο της. Ντροπή Βιργίλιε...Μετά από έναν post coital υπνάκο, ο Ήφαιστος κατεβαίνει στο εργαστήρι του που είναι τίγκα στον κύκλωπα και βάζει φρένο στις αποδέλοιπες δουλειές (κεραυνοί του Δία, ασπίδα της Αθήνας, άρμα του Άρη για το μεγάλο σέρβις -μαζί και φιλτρα καμπίνας) για να φτιάξει άρματα και τον γιο της τσουράπως.Όσο ο κουτσός ιδρώνει πάνω από τις φωτιές, ο Αινείας και οι σύμμαχοί του κάνουν ένα ψιλοσυμβούλιο στο οποίο ακούμε για κάστρα, τη στιγμή που τον καιρό εκείνο αν έβρισκες κάτι μεγαλύτερο από κωλοχώρι 50 κατοίκων (οι 30 ήταν αγελάδες) στην Ιταλία, το έκανες πρωτεύουσα. Και για κάποιο λόγο ο λιποτάκτης της Τροίας Αινείας, ο ήρωας που δεν κέρδισε ούτε μία μονομαχία σε ολόκληρη την Ιλιάδα και κάθε φορά κρυβόταν πίσω από τις φούστες της μάνας του αναλαμβάνει την αρχιστρατηγία των "καλών"...Και εκεί που οι στρατοί είναι έτοιμοι να ανταμώσουν κάτω από τα υποτιθέμενα κάστρα (με σχετική ασφάλεια υποθέτω: ξερολιθιές ύψους ενός μέτρου το πολύ, βλέπε τείχος του Αδριανού), έρχεται το Αφροδιτάκι στο γιο της με πεσκέσι. Παρεμπιπτόντως στην ασπίδα που του φέρνει ανάμεσα σε όλα τα άλλα υπάρχουν:1. Εικόνα με τον ρώμο και το ρωμύλο να βυζαίνουν τη λύκαινα2. Η αρπαγή των Σαβίνων3. Η μισή τουλάχιστον ρωμαϊκή ιστορία όπως την ξέρουμε, με τον Κάτωνα, τον κατιλίνα, τους θριάμβους του Καίσαρα, τη ναυμαχία στο Άκτιο (μόνο τα έμμηνα της Κλεοπάτρας δεν απεικονίζει).Κάτι σαν το τηλέραμα που έλεγε στις γριές τι θα γίνει στα σήριαλ όλη την επόμενη εβδομάδα.Ο Αινείας, ανίδεος για το τι ακριβώς απεικονίζει η ασπίδα του, την κοιτάζει και κάνει σαν καθυστερημένος "duuuuuhhh?"Βιβλίο ένατοΌσο ο Αινείας λείπει κάνοντας διακοπές και χαζεύοντας τα καινούργια του αξεσουάρ, η πόλη και οι στρατευμένοι τρώες δέχονται επίθεση από το στρατό του Τύρνου. Ακολουθώντας την εντολή του Αινεία σε περίπτωση που δεχτούν επίθεση (όσο λείπει) να κλειστούν πίσω από τείχη και να μην πολεμήσουν (ή υπακούοντας στο φυσικό τρωικό ένστικτό τους της δειλίας) οι Τρώες αποφεύγουν τη μάχη και καλύπτονται ενώ οι αντίπαλοι τους προσπαθούν να πυρπολήσουν τα πλοία τα οποία όμως επειδή είναι ευλογημένα μπλα μπλα μπλα από τη μητέρα θεά μπλα μπλα μπλα δεν αρπάζουν φωτιά και στο τέλος παρασύρονται και πλέουν μακριά.Από τους πολιορκημένους τώρα, δύο παλικαράκια ο Νίσος και ο Ευρύαλος σκέφτονται κάποιος πρέπει να πάει να φέρει τον Αινεία γιατί το νταβαντούρι έχει ξεκινήσει και αποφασίζουν να φύγουν μες στη νύχτα ενώ οι πολιορκητές κοιμούνται μεθυσμένοι. Στην αρχή, το εγχείρημά τους στέφεται με απόλυτη επιτυχία, ίσως επειδή απλώς σκοτώνουνε αντιπάλους που είναι ψόφιοι στον ύπνο από το μεθύσι (λίγα xp αλλά σίγουρα), όμως στη συνέχεια οι πρώτοι ξύπνιοι που τους πετυχαίνουν σκοτώνουν πρώτα τον Ευρύαλο και μετά τον Νίσο. Θυμίζει λίγο την εντελώς αποτυχημένη κατασκοπευτική απόπειρα του Δόλωνα στην Ιλιάδα, που βγήκε να κατασκοπεύσει για να μάθει τι κάνουν οι Αχαιοί και τον πιάσανε ο Οδυσσέας με το Διομήδη και, αντί να πάρει εκείνος πληροφορίες, τους τα ξέρασε όλα.Ακολουθεί ένας μάλλον αδιάφορος θρήνος από τη μάνα του Ευρύαλου και στη συνέχεια οι Ιταλοί επιτιθέμενοι -οι οποίοι μάλλον διάβαζαν Αστερίξ- επιτίθεται στα τείχη σε σχηματισμό χελώνας και οι Τρώες τούς πετάνε από πάνω πέτρες.Κάπου εδώ Βιργίλιος καθαρίζει το λαιμό του, φτύνει διακριτικά σε λινή πετσέτα και ζητάει από τη θέα να του δώσει έμπνευση για να τραγουδήσει ποιον και πως σκότωσε μετά ο Τύρνος. Άνδρα μοι ένεπε copy πολύκροτον...Σποιλερ Αλερτ. Ο Τύρνος σκοτώνει κάτι δευτερατζες που δεν τους ήξερε ούτε η μάνα τους. Προχωράμε.Σιγά-σιγά αρχίζουν να εμπλέκονται στη μάχη και οι θεοί (οποίοι ευνοούν σκανδαλωδώς τους Τρώες, με προεξάρχοντες Απόλλωνα και Άρη), πάνω στην ώρα γιατί ο Τύρνος έχει κόψει καπίστρι, έχει σηκώσει πανί και σκοτώνει τον ένα (παγκοσμίως άγνωστο) ήρωα μετά τον άλλο. Στο τέλος, με τη βοήθεια των θεών και καθώς η αντίπαλός τους Ήρα καθηλώθηκε από το Δία, ο Τύρνος απωθείται (μόνος εναντίον πολλών -Τρώες λαγοί) και πέφτει στο ποτάμι για να σωθεί.Βιβλίο δέκατοΣτον Όλυμπο με πρωτοβουλία του Δία ή θεοί συνεδριάζουν σχετικά με τα τεκταινόμενα σε μία παντελώς ασήμαντη επαρχία εκείνη την εποχή της Ιταλίας το Λάτιο. Η «Ελληνίδα μάνα» Αφροδίτη που φοβάται τόσο για το παιδί της όσο και για το εγγόνι της, έρχεται αντιμέτωπη με την απηνή διώκτρια των Τρώων, Ήρα. Ο Δίας σαν άλλος Πιλάτος νίπτει τα χείρας του στα... Ύδατα της στυγός.Στο μεταξύ, οι Τρώες είναι ακόμα εγκλωβισμένοι και οι Ρούτουλοι αλωνίζουν απ’ έξω, ενώ ο Αινείας φέρνει για ενίσχυση δικαβάλα στρογγυλοφάναρα από τις γύρω περιοχές και περνάει στην αντεπίθεση (ο κύκλος ζωής φέρνει ύφεση). Κι έτσι φτάνουμε στη μονομαχία Πάλλαντα - Τύρνου που κρατάει ακριβώς όσο δύο ρίψεις ακοντίων και βρίσκει τον Πάλλαντα νεκρό και τον Τύρνο να σκυλεύει το πτώμα, αλλά σαν κακιασμένη πεθερά ο Βιργίλιος έχει ήδη προοικονομήσει και το δικό του τέλος, σε μια φτηνή επανάληψη του τριγώνου Πάτροκλος - Έκτορας - Αχιλλέας. Σε αυτό ακριβώς το μοτίβο ο Αινείας "θολώνει" από το χαμό του Πάλλαντα (πού τον ήξερε σκάρτες δύο μέρες) και αρχινάει τα φονικά (μέχρι και ικετών στα πόδια του) αντίγραφοντας τον Αχιλλέα, κάτι σαν παπούτσι μάρκας Αμπίμπας σε ημίθεο.Σε ένα μάλλον αδέξιο intermezzo Δίας και Ήρα έχουν ένα τετ α τετ στο οποίο σφραγίζεται και επίσημα η μοίρα του Τύρνου.Στη μάχη πάλι, έχουμε απανωτές μονομαχίες τις οποίες κερδίζει ο Αινείας και την κλασική περίπτωση σφαγιασθέντος που ζητάει να σεβαστούν το πτώμα του. Γενικώς clopy paste από Ιλιάδα, χωρίς ιδιαίτερο νόημα.(ΤΑ ΒΙΒΛΙΑ 11 ΚΑΙ 12, ΣΤΑ ΣΧΟΛΙΑ, ΛΟΓΩ ΠΕΡΙΟΡΙΣΜΩΝ ΧΩΡΟΥ)
7257791338	Siempre resulta una alegría escribir sobre una obra tan emblemática de la literatura universal como es la Eneida de Virgilio. Por lo general suelo centrarme en ese héroe tan atípico que resulta Eneas, que para bien o para mal, no deja de ser uno de los padres de nuestra cultura occidental, y en cuyos hombros no solo se sostiene su padre sino quizá todo lo que hemos sido; pero hoy no tengo ganas de escribir del refugiado y piadoso Eneas ni de todo lo que supuso Roma, en tanto fue trasmisor de la cultura griega, sino del propio Virgilio y los enemigos del otro lado: los cananeos, mal llamados púnicos y fenicios por sus enemigos romanos y griegos. Lo primero que hay que tener en cuenta es que la Eneida es una composición de encargo y una obra de propaganda política. Y aun así no deja de sorprender el talento que contiene. Virgilio es un grandísimo poeta y si alguien duda de ello ahí están las Geórgicas y Las Bucólicas, que fue su primer gran obra. Hay una vinculación emocional de Virgilio con la tierra, con la siembra, con los pastores, con los poetas alejandrinos, que puede comprobarse muy bien leyendo estos poemas, que son tan o igual de importantes como la Eneida y que puede que ofrezcan muchas más señales de cómo era el propio Virgilio y de la vida y los ciclos de la tierra por aquella época. Remontémonos en el tiempo. El nacimiento de Virgilio se remonta alrededor del año 70, antes del carpintero, y el fallecimiento parece ser que ocurrió en el 18 o 19. Parece ser que vivió alrededor de 50 años. En esos tiempos eso era vivir una vida extensa. La gente moría mucho más joven. No existían antibióticos y cualquier enfermedad te podía llevar deprisa y sin escalas “al otro barrio”. De hecho, la mortandad entre los recién nacidos era altísima. Era realmente raro que una persona superarse los 70 años. Algunos hubo, claro. Siempre hay excepciones. Igual que hoy en día también puede encontrarse personas que viven más de cien años y a los que los escuchas hablar y te parece prodigioso que con esas edades conserven tan intacta la memoria. Oficialmente Virgilio murió de una insolación. Estos son los datos que damos por “buenos” y que proceden de Suetonio. Todo el que lea la esplendorosa e inigualable La muerte de Virgilio, de Hermann Broch, conocerá que allí las cosas no son tan claras y que su muerte ofrece otra conjeturas y posibilidades. Y es que también sabemos si buceamos un poco que Virgilio tenía muy buenos amigos poetas, y que no coincide para nada el lugar oficial de su muerte con el que señalaron sus amigos. Algo no cuadra, y todos sabemos que Virgilio no estaba contento ni con Augusto ni con su propia redacción de la Eneida. ¿Fue asesinado? ¿Pidió destruir la Eneida antes de fallecer por motivos meramente artísticos o hubo, por el contrario, un claro desacuerdo político? ¿Fue envenenado? ¿Hemos de creernos la versión oficial de la insolación? ¿Un golpe de calor? ¿Realmente no vamos a creer que alguien tan acostumbrado a los rigores de la canícula como Virgilio murió de una insolación? Quizá la Eneida sea la epopeya épica en la que se nota con mayor nitidez que Virgilio no cree en su héroe. Eneas no convence al escritor, y ni siquiera ese intento de absorber la Odisea en la primera parte y la Ilíada en la segunda consiguen convencernos de ello. Pero aquí vamos a añadir algo que no suele ser muy habitual en los análisis de la Eneida: Virgilio tampoco cree demasiado Dido (Elishat para los auténticos cananeos), aunque es posible que se sienta más cercana a ella que a Eneas, al compartir de alguna manera sus sufrimientos eróticos. En realidad Virgilio cree en muy pocos personajes-presencias míticas en este poema. Solo se emociona de verdad cuando describe a la gente joven. Entonces sus palabras sí que son encendidas y se llenan de fuerza y vigor. Lo egregio y lo épico es la juventud en la literatura de Virgilio. Y no solo en los hombres pues ahí aparece la bellísima Lavinia, hija del rey latino y futura esposa de Eneas, con una aparición en el poema auténticamente esplendorosa y repleta de combustión. Es como si de pronto Virgilio se untase en cuerpo y alma de explosividad y Vulcano ardiese: Había un laurel en medio de la casa, en lo más hondo, de sagrado follaje y cuidado con reverencia durante muchos años, que, se decía, el padre Latino en persona encontró y consagró A Febo, al fundar de la ciudad los cimientos, y que por él puso de nombre laurentes a los colonos. De aquel en lo más alto una nube de abejas (asombra contarlo) se instaló, llevadas por el aire Transparente con intenso zumbido y se colgó con las patas trabadas un repentino enjambre de la rama frondosa. Al punto el vate dijo: < un hombre extranjero (es Eneas), y que del mismo sitio viene al mismo sitio y se apodera de la alta fortaleza>>. Además. mientras los altares (aquí aparece Lavinia) perfumaba con castas antorchas y junto a su padre en pie estaba la joven Lavinia, Se vio (¡qué espanto!) que un fuego prendía en el largo cabello y ardía todo su tocado entre llamas crepitantes, Abrasado su pelo de reina, abrasada la corona cuajada de gemas; llena de humo, entonces, la envolvía una luz amarilla y extendía a Vulcano por toda la casa. Contaban esta visión como algo horrible y asombroso, pues anunciaba que ilustre y famoso sería su propio Destino, pero que gran guerra habría de traer a su pueblo. (Libro VII) También señalar que el poema avanza a pesar del propio escritor que cada poco tiempo se apena y se contagia del sufrimiento que describe. Virgilio es susceptible al dolor y a la pesadilla de angustia absoluta que representa Juno. Mírame bien: vengo de la morada de las crueles hermanas, llevo en mi mano la guerra y la muerte. Posee una gran sensibilidad. Y una sensibilidad cercana y afín a todo sufrimiento humano. No importa el siglo tan lejano en el que se escribió esta epopeya. El nombre de los dioses cambia; los aparatitos de los que nos rodeamos son distintos; la medicina ha evolucionado; las geografias y los países y las fronteras que habitamos tienen otros nombres, pero eso es igual puesto que todos los países y todas las banderas son ficciones; pero el dolor humano, el dolor de una madre por perder a su hijo sigue siendo el mismo que antaño. Hace falta ser una piedra para no sobrecogerse en esta parte del poema del Libro IX: «Así te veo, Euríalo? ¿Eres tú, el reposo postrerode mis años, y has podido dejarme sola,cruel? Y cuando te enviaron a peligros tan grandes,¿no se dio a tu madre el hablarte por última vez?¡Ay! Yaces en tierra extraña botín de los perros latinosy de sus buitres. Siendo tu madre, ni tus exequias te he podidohacer, ni he cerrado tus ojos, ni lavé tus heridas,cubriéndote con la tela que te estaba tejiendo a toda prisa,de día y de noche, y en el telar consolaba mis cuitas de vieja.¿Dónde buscarte ¿Qué tierra guarda ahora tu cuerpoy tus miembros lacerados y tu cadáver roto? ¿Esto me traesde ti, hijo mío? ¿Esto es lo que he seguido por mar y por tierra?Atravesadme, si queda aún piedad; contra mí todas las flechasdisparad, rútulos, matadme la primera con la espada;o tú, gran padre de los dioses, ten piedad y esta odiadacabeza sepulta bajo el Tártaro con tu rayo,que de otro modo no puedo quebrar esta vida cruel». ¿Qué se puede extraer de todo esto? Bueno, pues la primera consideración que traigo al vuelo es que Virgilio no creyó realmente en este poema en casi ningún momento, y sí en cambio creía y se sentía conmovido por todo sufrimiento humano. Sabía que su creación iba a ser utilizada para afianzar el poder de Augusto y creo que no no sintió mucha felicidad de que esto se produjese. Lo imagino lleno de contradicciones creativas y personales mientras componía esta obra. Que quisiese destruirla me parece ahora hasta lógico. Lo verdaderamente intrigante es por qué no la destruyó antes. ¿Por temor a ser exiliado y que las tierras de su familia se confiscasen? Posiblemente. Hay que tener en cuenta que todo el mundo en Roma sabía que esta escribiendo esta obra. Si Virgilio se hubiese atrevido a destruiría al mismo tiempo estaría destruyendo todo un sueño colectivo. Y eso indudablemente le iba a acarrear graves consecuencias personales. De ocurrir así hubiese sido ese uno de los mayores gestos de malditismo literario de toda la historia de la literatura. En cambio lo que nos propone Hermann Broch en su novela, La muerte de Virgilio, tiene más que ver con los límites del arte; con los horizontes a los que puede y no puede llegar el verbo y con la totalidad aniquiladora de toda gran expresividad humana. Cuando se asciende y se alcanza alguna cúspide creativa lo que se halla es tan solo vacío. Pero hay algo mucho más prosaico y humano y es que existieron denuncias previas y críticas al poder de Augusto. Hay ciertos historiadores y críticos que señalan que Virgilio incluyó críticas al proceder del Princeps en sus poemas y que este se percató. ¿Ordenó asesinarlo? No sería descartable. En esos mismos años del gobierno de Augusto hubo poetas que se suicidaron en extrañas circunstancias y otros que fueron exiliados. ¿Qué pasó con Ovidio? «El fomentador del adulterio femenino» según el propio Augusto. Hay que reírse. “Las palabras escritas” siempre ha sido peligrosas y cada vez toma más cuerpo la idea de que Virgilio no fue el poeta oficial de Augusto como durante muchos siglos se nos ha vendido, sino un opositor en la sombra a su gobierno y a su autoridad, puesto que ya se aprecian en las Bucólicas cierta ironía y distancia respecto a Octavio. Es verdad que entonces Octavio era un muchachito casi siempre enfermo y que nada hacía presagiar lo que después ocurriría, “el animal político” que escondía en ese cuerpo tan frágil; pero no deja de ser curiosa la posibilidad de que el poeta más oficial del Princeps fuese desde casi el principio de su carrera literaria un ser disconforme y alejado de intereses políticos. Yo esta versión última me la voy creyendo más y más conforme los años pasan y prosigo releyendo a Virgilio. Si bien, en las Geórgicas sí se encuentran encendidos elogios a Augusto. Hay que situarse en el contexto y declarar que entonces Octavio acababa de derrotar a Marco Antonio. Tras muchas décadas de enfrentamientos civiles por fin se abría la posibilidad de una paz duradera. Creo que esa la verdadera felicidad que se extrae de ese casi tratado de agricultura y fusión con la naturaleza que es la Geórgicas. No sabemos lo que Virgilio pensaba de la rectitud en el culto de los dioses que proponía Octavio, pero no creo que como lucreciano que era eso le importase demasiado. Los dioses para Lucrecio no tienen ninguna importancia. No podemos esperar nada de ellos. Esta misma edición de Alianza Editorial cita de pasada en la introducción que los primeros círculos poéticos en los que se movió Virgilio eran cercanos a Marco Antonio. Pero no profundiza en ello. Solo lo menciona muy por encima. Hay que situarse en las convulsiones que sacudieron a Roma y todas sus guerras civiles y colocar ahí a un hombre tan alejado del deseo de poder y de la notoriedad como Virgilio. La felicidad para este poeta estaba en las cosas sencillas de la vida. Imaginad la lucha interna que tuvo que padecer al ser elegido el poeta oficial de un régimen en el que muy posiblemente no creyó en toda su existencia. Lo mal que lo pasaría cuando tuvo que leerle al propio Octavio pasajes de la Eneida que ya tenía escritos. De hecho sabemos por las muchas amistades que Virgilio cultivó que deseaba estar alejado de los eventos literarios de la época y andar y leer y escribir libre sin tener que rendir cuentas a nadie. La personalidad de Virgilio no tenía nada que ver con la búsqueda del éxito, sino con la indagación filosófica epicúrea y lucreciana. La naturaleza campesina de Virgilio no tenía demasiados motivos para apreciar en el gobierno de Augusto, y más con la supuesta confiscación de tierras que el poeta sufrió o que estuvo a punto de padecer, supongo que en esas contrapartidas que se aprobaron hacia los legionarios; pero no tengo muy claro lo que ocurrió porque en algunos lados leo que esas confiscaciones sí ocurrieron y en otros que Virgilio consiguió a través de algunas de sus amistades paralizar las que iban a expropiar a las tierras de su padre. Tendría que investigarlo. Lo cierto es que ya César tuvo bastantes problemas en el Senado para que sus soldados fuesen recompensados, aunque es bastante cierto que intentó cumplir sus promesas. Pero para terminar nuestras cuitas sobre el no tan oficial poeta Virgilio (como se nos ha vendido durante tantos siglos) tan solo señalar que allí donde algunos estudiosos ven esoterismo y hermetismo en realidad lo único que hay es la visión lucreciana de un hombre con un gran sentido de lo trascendental. Lo único que puede escaparse un poco de Virgilio y parecernos hoy en día misterioso y un punto hermético es su visión pitagórica. Los números tienen una gran importancia en las Bucólicas, pero no hay nada esotérico ni sectario en perseguir la música de las esferas. Algunos leen los libros desde “sus mentes enfermas” y luego van soltando tonterías desde sus ensayos y estudios críticos. Esoterismo hay (y por un tubo) en un autor tan moderno y universal como Víctor Hugo. ¿Verdad que no os han explicado esto en las escuelas? Pues es muy cierto. Algún día igual hablaré sobre las tremendas sesiones de espiritismo que Víctor Hugo y su círculo más cercano practicaron con gran asiduidad. Harían mejor esos críticos en buscar esoterismo y hermetismo allí, y dejar de “intoxicar” al bueno de Virgilio. Y ya si se atreven a seguir con la indagación sobre el ocultismo lean a un novelista tan mágico y potente como Alejo Carpentier, puesto que en muchas de sus obras se aprecian ciertos detallitos cabalísticos que están muy pero que muy presentes. En Virgilio, por el contrario, hay un hombre de campo sumido en grandes divagaciones y que busca a través de lo epicúreo y lo pitagórico una conexión con el universo más plena. Por lo tanto Virgilio es un poeta mucho más sencillo de lo que nos hacen creer, y no por ello menos profundo. Sencillo en el sentido que lo es también Rimbaud cuando describe un árbol y un río. Es eso, no hay más detrás. Rimbaud no es Crownley. La gente del campo (y Rimbaud es otro poeta de campo pese a sus visitas-escapadas-huídas a París y Bruselas) no se suele andar con remilgos ni busca casi nunca emplear un vocablo más complicado que otro si el primero que viene a su cabeza ya viene ungido por su experiencia vital. Y en cuanto a Dante y su famosa obra tan solo señalar que el auténtico Virgilio lanzaría sin lugar a dudas la Divina Comedia a las llamas, por ser un poema denigrante para sus creencias y que lo utiliza y manipula tergiversándolo de una manera bastante rastrera. No dudo que tanto Dante como San Agustín admiraros las capacidades poéticas de Virgilio, este punto no es discutible, pero sí lo es el que lo manipulasen y utilizasen con tan escaso respeto a su integridad intelectual. En Virgilio no hay nada de anunciamiento cristiano ni siquiera procristiano. Y cuanto más se lee a Virgilio más nítido se aprecia este punto. Lo realmente triste es que exista tan pocos críticos que se atrevan a señalarlo. Saber esto no disminuye la calidad de los escritos de San Agustín y de Dante, aunque deja bien a las claras algo que es muy común en la historia de la literatura: el intento de absorción y aplastamiento. Un poeta educado en De la naturaleza de las cosas, de Lucrecio, jamás se prestaría a ser incluido de guía protocristiano. ¡Qué me estás contando Il Sommo Poeta! Ni tampoco anuncia Virgilio el nacimiento de Cristo como cree ver San Agustín en sus poemas de las Bucólicas. Este asunto me provoca la risa. El nacimiento al que se refiere Virgilio y que San Agustín confunde (a sabiendas) con casi una profecía del nacimiento del redentor estaba dedicado por Virgilio al hijo de un amigo suyo, protector de su actividad intelectual y poética, el insigne político e historiador y amigo también de Horacio, Cayo Asinio Polión, cuyos escritos no sobrevivieron (los cristianos y los bárbaros tuvieron la culpa de estos crímenes culturales) y que fue la persona que mandó construir y sufragó con su dinero la primera biblioteca pública de Roma. Casi nada. O sea que era una especie de mecenas que protegió y alentó toda la carrera literaria de Virgilio y de otros muchos poetas. También escribió tragedias, según tengo entendido, pero esa misma biblioteca que fundó fue saqueada posteriormente y todos sus escritos se perdieron. Una lástima, porque al parecer también escribió unas críticas literarias sobre Tito Livio que supusieron un escándalo. Y una cosa que no quiere dejar de señalar en San Agustín es que oculta y esconde (a sabiendas, repito, puesto que San Agustín era un gran lector y lo sabía más que de sobra) que Virgilio era (y sigue siendo en sus obras) un profundo lucreciano. Y como lucreciano confeso jamás iría de la mano de ningún cristiano ni de ningún otro monoteísta ni a la vuelta de la esquina. Por lo tanto, nuestro tímido poeta no parece ser (tras los últimos estudios) tan poeta oficial de Augusto (aunque así quedase registrado en la historia) ni tampoco el guía y casi profeta procristiano que se inventaron para sus intereses particulares Dante y San Agustín. Y ahora vamos ya a lo que de verdad a nivel personal me entusiasma de la Eneida: nuestra señora Elishat. Nada de Dido ni Elisa ni todos esos nombres desviados de su verdadera esencia. Para los habitantes de Kart- Hadtha (Cartago) Elishat (Dido) es su reina fundadora. Al igual que Eneas procede de noble cuna y es otra superviviente que ha huido de Oriente. En este caso no de Troya, sino de Tiro. Aquí todos son inmigrantes. Toda la cultura occidental es hija de inmigrantes y huidos y refugiados de conflictos y guerras. Lo digo porque hay demasiado idiota en este continente que no conoce ni las raíces que nos preceden y sustentan. Su hermano Pu'mayyaton ostenta el poder y ambiciona los tesoros del Templo. Recordemos que los templos eran depositarios de los tesoros y tenían en muchos casos autonomía para cobrar impuestos. Por lo tanto (no sé si esto se contaba en las leyendas cananeas, pero los romanos solo salvaron de Cartago los tratados de agricultura que, por cierto, transcribieron al latín haciéndolos pasar por suyos) es posible que Elishat, la hermana de Pu´mayyyaton, tuviese o bien capacidad para condicionar a los sacerdotes y sacerdotisas de los templos o bien ella misma ostentase uno de esos cargos religiosos. (Sigue en el blog).
1680596094	"..Is it that the Gods inspire, ..this fever of the breast?Or make we gods of but a wild desire?"So i read the Taylor translation except for a few chapters on audio from Librivox which was the Dryden version. I also looked in every so often on the PoetryinTranslation version because they use classical paintings as illustrations which is pretty cool.The Taylor translation came with a full set of annotations which were very useful.The poem overall is a bit awkward, some of that might be the translation but most of it is because Virgil likes to use these elaborate little stories for metaphors and by the time he's finished i often had no idea what point he was trying to make :lol. Large portions of the story are also fairly redundant and there are various asides to stroke the roman ego. There are also a lot of characters but you never really get to know any of them very well. Most of them being introduced only a few lines before they die ;) .On the upside many of the battle scenes are good, it really shows the fog of war and costs. Dido, Juno and everyone really, gets a chance to show their side of the issues, its a surprisingly evenhanded tale. I also like that Aeneas is so average, he's not particularly brave or cowardly, smart or stupid, good or bad he's just in charge because people know his mom, like a slightly less effective Sterling Archer :) . Anyway not my favourite epic some boredom, some parts of interest.
294342998	WOAH. Roman literature is often seen as being derivative of Greek literature, but damn, Virgil is in a class all his own. Robert Fagles' translation of the Aeneid is the single most stunning, powerful book I've read from the classical era. The incredible sense of focus, the sheer intensity of some of the scenes in this book made my jaw drop. I mean, literally drop. The description of the fall of troy, Dido's bitter recrimination against Aeneas, the little moments of average people mourning the loss of their children in battle, the stunning dream sequence when the future lineage of Rome is revealed...gah. Each section is replete with searingly brilliant imagery. I'm going to go out on a limb and say that Virgil outdoes Homer. He takes the epic of national identity and makes it personal, makes it heartrending. This book is 2000 years old, and it is damn near impossible to put down. Fagles was an absolute, bona fide master of the art of translation. I'll risk sounding like a pompous jerk and say that his renderings of classical works are more dramatic, and more alive than anything else available in modern English. I cannot recommend this highly enough.
3504705669	Roma İmparatoru Augustus tarafından Virgil'e yazılması tavsiye edilen, Roma İmparatorluğu kurucuları olan kardeşler Remus ve Romulus'un atası olan Aeneas'ın destanı. Truva Savaşı'ndan sonra yurt aramak için önce Kartaca daha sonra İtalya'da son bulan epik bir destan. Yine Truva Savaşı gibi mitolojik tanrıların rolü yüksek. Jüpiter, Juno, Mars, Apollon bunların başında. İlyada sonrası okunması tavsiye edilir.
2399976263	10/2024: There are very, very few works of timeless canonical literature about which I can legitimately say this. But here goes: I don't like the Aeneid. Much, that is. Of course, I grant it its rightful station. The ideal of pious Aeneas, whose devotion extends beyond his personal desires to obedience to divine will, cast a long shadow over the Middle Ages. Dante interpreted his influence brilliantly. The poem contains great moments of mighty splendor and intimacy that are almost authentic (snide backhanded compliment alert...) Its artfulness in the Latin is superb as everyone says. It is the best thing to read to understand Rome, and the fact that it was written to upholster and nourish the spirit of the imperium aeternum sends shivers down one's spine. My phrase "epic in a bottle" that I concocted in my original high school review below is quite apt. But for all that—I don't like it. Its extreme artifice is pale compared to the Homeric model. Of course just about everything is pale compared to Homer, but Virgil doesn't move me. He's silly, bombastic, melodramatic. Aeneas is interesting as an ideal, not a character. Not even Dido and Turnus leave deep brands on the mind like Homer's Eumaeus and Andromache. In anachronistic terms, it's more like a "novel of ideas." But I begrudgingly boost my rating to four stars, because let's face it—it's an impressive achievement, and one of the cornerstone works of the Western tradition. It is capable of producing much fertile discussion. I sincerely wish I received more enjoyment from it. But there's an air of off-putting chilliness around every work of Roman literature that I have read despite its verbal alacrity, from Lucretius all the way to Seneca. Let others be the ones to measure the stars indeed.This time I read the Fagles, which has been criticized—not without reason—for inaccuracy, but it's undeniable that the result is a very striking English, if slightly awkward at times. Some of the liberties are certainly a stretch in terms of accuracy, but it's a fine achievement in its own right, especially in the gripping battle scenes in the latter half, where Fagles hits the stride of his incomparable Iliad. Otherwise I've liked the Fitzgerald for its patrician nobility, and I have the Mandelbaum on my shelf should the desire ever come around. 4/2019: Few civilizations have had such a massive impact on everyday life than the Roman Empire. Our conception of justice, legal rights, the nature of law, republican government (with a small "r", mind you); the structure and depth of our language, the richness of our traditions in poetry and oratory, our ambitious means of public prosperity and civil service. Omnēs vīae ad Rōmam dūcit- this is hardly an exaggeration. Such a tremendous legacy deserves not to be thrust into the annals of force-fed history tomes; dryly classified as the "greatest ancient empire" and neglected as a figment of a history we needn't bother to preserve. But how can we know what we are to do going forward if we don't know how we fared in the past? How can we even comprehend who, why, and where we are today without considering what got us there? The abandonment of history in modern culture is one of the great tragedies of Western thought. I'm confident that Publius Vergilius Maro knew full well these similar dilemmas that oppressed his nation in a time where the Imperium Aeternum was sandwiched between the fall of free society and the rise of the dictator cult which would provide years of artificial prosperity before plummeting into the depths of demise. The beauty and nobility of the greatest empire to ever exist would never die as long as its citizens remembered its heritage. This is why the great poet produced his "epic in a bottle” to float on the waves of time and send on to future generations. But does Virgil truly justify Roman nationalism and imperialism? Is his protagonist an authentic representation of duty and character? How is his epic a valuable lesson about not only the nature and significance of the Roman model, but the world we inherit today? We will take a look at a few of those questions here.To call the Aeneid "fan fiction" or a blatant ripoff of Homer is to fundamentally misunderstand its purpose. Homer was one of the greatest artists to grace the earth, and to emulate him was and is considered virtually impossible. Do modern composers, writers, and painters try to "copy" or "improve on" Bach, Shakespeare, and Rembrandt? To Virgil, Rome is the best at pretty much everything. But even he is humble enough to admit that Rome must leave art to other civilizations. His epic is a reimagining of the great Greek poet's ideas to fit the Roman agenda. It is useless to ask whether it rivals Homer, because we all know the answer. When our favorite writer releases a new novel, we don't immediately disgrace him by proclaiming, "Yeah, it's good; but it's not nearly as good as Tolstoy and Dickens!" This obviously does not infer that the new work is not a great work of art in itself. Now, about the language. The immense craftsmanship that went into this epic is evident when reading it in the original tongue (as I was privileged to do). The word choice is nearly obsessive, the prosody sumptuous, the rhetorical flourishes and connotations rich and evocative. This Latin is true poetry; the mark of an unusually gifted artist. When someone wrestles this much with words so as to devote his entire work to proper arrangement of them, one can't help but tip one's cap.Aeneas, obviously, is supposed to be a likeable hero. But that doesn't mean that Virgil doesn't throw in some sympathetic characters on the "other side"- a masterful stroke of Homeric psychology. Chief among them is Dido, one of the most sympathetic characters in ancient literature, yet who simply does not fit into Virgil's worldview. In many ways Aeneas is the opposite of the reckless Greek heroic ethic glorified in the Iliad and Odyssey. He is calm, collected, resourceful, and most of all, dutiful to his destiny. Yet he appears cardboard compared to the great Homeric figures, and his surrounding cast tends to be more human and appreciable to the discerning reader (is anyone really "cheering" for Aeneas to leave Dido and pursue his fortunes?) But what Virgil never bothers to do is define that destiny that permeates his entire work. To the poet, Rome's mission was to subjugate the foolish; to conquer the conquerable; to cultivate the uncivilized; to undergo any means necessary in order to assist in advancing the Lux Mundī that was the Imperium sine Finē. But when one's ultimate moral standard is vested in something tangible like a country, that ends up being quite problematic. Turnus is portrayed just as artificially as the hero, and though the ending scene may be unsatisfactory, it leaves no doubt as to Virgil's opinions on the end-all-be-all of Rome. Turnus represents fruitless furor, while Pius Pater Aeneas is loyal to whatever the Parcae volvunt; driven on by fātis nūminis and oppressed by saevae memōrem Iunōnis ob īram. Aeneas is the model that Virgil must use to glorify an empire's passions while disregarding what natural human law would say is right.Nationalism has been a perpetual scourge of society. It has led to countless wars too horrible to describe; to the justification of evil to propagate questionable values; to citizenry ignorant of their foundations and eager to spread arbitrary ideas at the cost of knowledge. Augustine had it down pat in his City of God: Rome fell because it glorified selfish ideals of domination and expansionism. These nationalistic harbingers allowed their society's profound depth of positive influence to recede into the dusk, and to fall into extreme immorality, apathy, and ignorance. They lived as if they were at the very end of history instead of looking to their past for enlightenment. They sought personal pleasure and senseless hedonism instead of true and beautiful pursuits. Their collapse at the hands of the barbarians was but a symbolic fall, since Rome in essence had already fallen centuries earlier. We can assume that Virgil would be horrified to learn of the outcome of his Imperium Aeternum. He can be thought of as a champion of hope to his already-flailing country. But little would he know that the very ideas that he spread so eagerly; the ideas of imperialism, force, and blind "duty" to impersonal fate; would be so manipulated by Augustus and his successors. Grasping for promise, Virgil settled on the dictatorship as a zeitgeist of the era. He did nothing but contribute to that growing sentiment which would, in turn, fell the greatest empire that ever existed. His Aeneid provides no justification for nationalism. His "epic in a bottle" spread destructive messages to the future, but also gives invaluable glimpses into our own past. The lessons we ought to take from Rome are dire and timely.The Aeneid as a work of art is glorious. The first half has everything wonderful about classical art: adventure, war, tragic passions, conflicts, and epic scope. The second half falters as Virgil tries vainly to justify his philosophy. The epic in a bottle is 200 pages slimmer than the Homeric gargantuans, and has half the books. It is crystalline, engaging, and oftentimes it falls on its face. But we read the Aeneid to appreciate its position in the artistic canon. We ponder and digest the wealth of ideas its master infused into it, and we learn from the worldviews of history. We are deeply proud of our roots and confident that we can singlehandedly resist the inevitable consequences of our actions. It is not too late to change the course we are headed on; a lesson that Rome learned too late. Rome may have fallen, but Virgil's epic in a bottle carries us onward through the ages; containing the beauty and horror of the Imperium Aeternum.
3604914950	This new translation casts the classic Vergil poem in a fresh modern light.Let me just say: I love Greek literature, and Greek Mythology - I always have. But I was not that impressed with this story, unfortunately. And in turn, I believe that affected my view of the translation. Although, I can appreciate Vergil's epic and the impression it made upon Western literature, I honestly wasn't that entertained. In my opinion, the translation offered nothing new to the classic story and felt bland. What can I say? I can appreciate the feeling of smarticle particles it gives me while reading, but as far as actual enjoyment goes: it didn't do it for me.Big thank you to Random House for sending me an ARC copy of this book!
2151500645	Edit October 14, 2018Okay I know I read this book in like March, but the more I think about it the more I hate it. So yeah, dropped to one star~FINALLY IM DONE WITH THIS ROMAN PROPAGANDA Yay my first two star read, whoop de dooOkay, not only was this book obviously propaganda, it was also a blatant ripoff of the Iliad and the Odyssey. And it's not even a good ripoff. I'm not gonna deny the historical significance of the Aeneid, but personally, I'll pass. The only redeeming factor of this book for me was finally reading about Dido and Aeneas' son. Other than that, I loathe this book. Well I finally found a book that I don't like so I guess that's something?
4135152250	Fantastic epic, beautifully told. Seems to perfectly compliment the Iliad and Odyssey. I loved the Fagles’ version but the Bartsch translation is good too.
1904747712	9. The Aeneid by Virgilpublished: 19 bce, unfinished. translation: Robert Fagles 2006introduction and notes Bernard Knoxformat: 423 page paperback (plus 61 page glossary)acquired: Barnes & Noble, December 2015read: Feb 6-18rating: 4Despite the long post, I don't actually have much to say about the Aeneid. I was a little disappointed and finished without enthusiasm. I think it was books 7-12 that wore me out, a lot of boring fighting with nothing to look forward too. I'm glad I read it, especially book 6 since this reverberates through history. And book 4, on Dido's plight, which lives a bit in Ferrante's Neapolitan Quartet (Elana Greco is Dido, and Nino is Aeneas) and Dido's collapse was moving, but Dido was a weak character. I'm reduced to some notes.A summary, with quotes:In twelve books Virgil tells the myth of how Rome was founded by a Trojan hero. Aeneas, son of Venus (Aphrodite) survives the fall of Troy with with his father, Anchises, who he carries away on his shoulders, and with his son, Ascanius, but not Creusa, his wife. He wanders the Mediterranean, failing to understand Apollo's very clear prophecies, and is constantly harassed by Juno (Hera), Troy's arch nemesis, until he finally reaches and establishes himself near future Rome. He makes two really interesting stops along the way.First, he shipwrecks in future Carthage and humiliates its leader, the Tyrean queen Dido. She falls for him, he seduces her and then abandons her. Except, it's cupid that makes her fall in love with him, and it's Juno who sets up the seduction and it's Jupiter and Mercury who force him to leave and head to future Rome. So, clearly no ones to blame. Well, Aeneas is pretty much an a-hole with his five second reflectionStrongly as he longsto ease and allay her sorrow, speak to her,turn away her anguish with reassurance, still,moaning deeply, heart shattered by his great love,in spite of all he obeys the god's commandsand back he goes to his ships. Dido curses him, setting up the future Punic wars, and then commits suicide. Then, in book six, Aeneas first lands in Italy and meets the curious Sibyl, priestess of Apollo. She works herself into a spastic trance.But the Sibyl, still not broken in by Apollo, stormswith a wild fury through her cave. And the more she triesto pitch the great god off her breast, the more his bridleexhausts her raving lips, overwhelming her untamed heart,bending her to his will.And then she gives her famous line (roughly quoted in Pirates of the Caribbean, Land's End, among other places) : Born of the blood of gods, Anchises’ son,man of Troy, the descent to the Underworld is easy.Night and day the gates of shadowy Death stand open wide,but to retrace your steps, to climb back to the upper air—there the struggle. There the labor lies. And, finally, she leads him into the underworld with the golden bough. We meet a fascinating underworld of torment, poignant sadness, punishment, reward, and the river Lethe were souls lose their memories and return to earth with new lives. He even meets Dido's spirit and pleads with her for forgiveness. "But she, her eyes fixed on the ground, turned away". That leaves books 7-12, six books of convoluted battle, politics, confusion and serious dullness. Aeneas wins, marries a Latin, and the blood of the Romans, and of Julius Ceasar and Augustus Ceasar is founded.What I liked:The opening and its echo on closing. Virgil opens by asking why. “Muse, how it all began. Why was Juno outraged? What could wound the Queen of the Gods with all her power?” It's mostly unanswered and actually compelling. Then, just before the end, Jupiter turns to Juno, fate assured, Aeneid will be fine, and asks her, how far? “Where will it end, my queen? What is left at last?” Of course, Chapter 6. And, chapter 4, particularly Dido's collapse, which is moving. And chapters 1-3 are all good, especially chapter 2 which tells of the fall of Troy.Camilla is a worth a note, since she fights with ""one breast bared for combat "What I didn't like:Dido. She just isn’t a very strong character. I’m bit spoiled by Homer and, especially, the Greek plays where women play wonderful roles, often as wonderful villains. Dido is so passive and controlled by other forces - a victim of circumstance with no self-initiating power.Aeneas. He's forgettable.Chapter 5 - the funeral games.Chapters 7-12 the battles with Turnus, the silly villain.Notes on the translation and notesFagles is fine and very readable, but not, in my opinion, particularly poetic. He says he has a rhythm, but I rarely sensed it. And, in his clarity, I suspect something is lost. It's almost too easy. The main notes are essentially missing. Only the very basic stuff is covered and some of that is obvious from the text and just restated. There are 13 pages of notes for 456 pages of text. But then there is a 61 pages glossary, which covers a great deal. So I guess that balances out a bit. The one thing that really bothered me is that the The Argonautika is not mentioned once, even as I know some of the cited sources point out how huge its influence was on Virgil. Many other influences are mentioned. In conclusionThis wasn't the first disappointment for me with the ancients. I had built up Apollonius of Rhodes's Argonautika too much (The Argonautika also has a weak lead character, Jason, and a sadly weakened version of the female antagonist, Medea.) But this was a big let down. Virgil's own Georgics are a lot better...well, outside book 6 here.
