3770041834	this is a story of: obsession, violence, intellect, passion, and cruelty. and it consumed me entirely.
3308855491	Well, this book absolutely gutted me. I think I'll be having a book hangover for awhile after reading Micah Nemerever's epic These Violent Delights . There's absolutely no way that I believe that this is Micah's debut novel, because the prose is so wickedly beautiful. It's being compared as The Secret History meets Call Me By Your Name, and I can definitely see that, but honestly, this book is better than both of them. These Violent Delights takes place in 1970s Pittsburgh and centers around two main characters, Paul Fleischer and Julian Fromme. Paul and Julian are two freshman students joining college and connect instantaneously during their first interaction in class. They are immediately drawn together, but they couldn't be more different. Paul is a shy, artistic, loner; while Julian is wealthy, charismatic, and cunning. The two immediately form a fast friendship, but little did they know that this friendship would grow more intense each day.As Paul and Julian's friendship grows, the bond quickly turns to love. Their love is so powerful, so beautiful (and steamy!), but also so dark. Their love grows eventually forms into obsession and violence. The two form an unhealthy, yet captivating romantic bond, that allows the two of them to become stronger in their own way. This bond cannot be broken and anyone who steps in their way will have to suffer the consequences. Whew, this book is heavy on my heart. Never has a book triggered me with so many emotions. At first, the writing seemed a bit dense and difficult to get through, but then I realized, oh wait Dennis, you're just not as smart as Micah Nemerever so PUSH THROUGH. I eventually got the hang of the intellectual conversations had between the characters and fell right into the trap of this book's atmospheric content. These Violent Delights has the perfect slow building suspense that you just get immersed into the story. I could not put this book down if you tried to pry it from my hands. I just couldn't. I loved My Violent Delights so much for many reasons, but I think the main reason was that this story is so different than other novels in that it felt like it had its own universe of content. It's hard to describe, but I just feel like a lot of literary fiction works lately have just a straightforward plot, from beginning to end. With My Violent Delights , there's just so many details that encompass everything that you just can't help but take notice. For example, I double checked and reread the ending twice, and I never do that. I read some chapters over and took pictures of quotes (so I can share on publication day) as well. I can picture myself actually rereading this book again, without any doubt. I also loved the romance between Paul and Julian and how it teetered on the balance of pain and pleasure, and of security and controversy. I can probably go on and on about why I loved this book so much, but I think you get the hint. It may be a bit early to state this, but My Violent Delights may very well be my favorite book of 2020.
3868865129	All right. I've procrastinated all I can.The time is come.I have to do the most dreaded thing I ever do...figure out how I "feel" about something.Even though I am someone who reviews every book she reads, and even though I read hundreds of books a year, I try to think about feelings as infrequently as possible. I go with a gut rating, I often change it when I actually write the review, and that's it.But then...once in a while...Nightmare. Chaos. Destruction. A book like this comes along, with an intense and confusing reading experience, and I am unable to rate it.And then I wait days and weeks and a month if I can swing it so I do not have to do any sort of emotional reflection of any kind. But I've put this off all I can.This book is weird.It has some of the dark-academia vibes of books I love, but way more violent and twisty and confusing. The writing is pretty, if sometimes a bit purple for my taste (okay fine you got me I just like using the word "purple" to describe prose too much). I just kind of like...don't know how I feel about it? But it's a vaguely positive kind of not knowing. So I think...3.5.The rating of indecisive nice people everywhere. (I'm rebranding to nice.)These characters are unlikable, but that's the point. The plot, if it exists, winds in fits and starts, but that's the point. It kind of walks the line between literary fiction and thriller, but that's the point. Everything that could take away from it feels intentional, which makes deducting anything seem willfully basic.What else to say? I'll add this: When I'm reading physical books, I never eat, because I only have two hands and I don't understand the energy distribution that would take. Am I turning pages with one hand and holding my ice cream sandwich in the other? Am I taking bites of salad without turning my eyes to it for optimal forkfuls? How does this work? But on the other hand (buh dum ch), all I do while eating (because I can't be alone with my thoughts) is read on my laptop. And I had a library ebook copy of this book, so boom. Laptop.But it's such an oddly consuming story, such a disruptively disturbing and gripping and occasionally shockingly violent narrative, that I was often unable to eat. And I lost my appetite if I tried.Do with that what you will.Bottom line: Weird! But good? But mostly weird.----------------pre-reviewwhat the hell?review and rating to come----------------tbr reviewput the word "dark" next to the word "academia" and i am IN
3259225796	| | blog | tumblr | letterboxd | | Heavenly Creatures by way of Patricia Highsmith, plus a sprinkle of Like Minds, and with the kind of teenage morbidity one could find in Hangsaman or Stoker. Adroit and gripping, These Violent Delights is a superlative debut novel. Being the self-proclaimed connoisseur of academia fiction that I am, I was drawn by the comparisons to The Secret History and I was amazed to discover that unlike other releases (not naming any names) These Violent Delights definitely had some TSH vibes. But whereas most academia books focus on a ‘clique’, Micah Nemerever’s novel is very much centred on the obsessive relationship between two seventeen-year-olds.If you’ve read or watched anything that revolves around a toxic relationship, you know what to expect from These Violent Delights. The prologue itself reveals to us that all will not be well for these two boys and that at some point will embark on a path of no return.“He couldn’t remember ever being the person he’d decided to become.”The narrative takes us back to their first meeting. Paul, our protagonist, is a university freshman in Pittsburgh during the early 1970s. His father has recently committed suicide and his mother has yet to recover. Paul suffers from an almost debilitating insecurity and shows a propensity for virulent self-recriminations. His inward-looking nature brings him no joy, as his mind is often consumed by his many ‘shortcomings’, and those of others. He feels misunderstood by his working-class family, and without his father, his grandfather, a man whose good-natured attempts to connect with Paul inevitably miss the mark, has become his closest male figure. His family fails to accept that Paul isn’t the type to ‘loosen’ up with his peers or have ‘fun’ with some girl.When a discussion on experimental ethics in class gets Paul hot under the collar, Julian Fromme comes to his defence. On the surface Julian is the antithesis of Paul: he comes from wealth, he’s self-assured, easy-going, and charismatic. Yet, Paul is enthralled by him, especially when he realises that Julian carries within him a darkness not unlike his own. Their mutual understanding and their interest in one another result in an instantaneous connection. They can have erudite talks, challenging each other's stance on subjects related to ethics and morals, and revel in the superiority they feel towards their classmates. Within hours of their meeting, their bond has solidified, becoming something impenetrable to outsiders. It soon becomes apparent that neither of them is in control in their relationship, and things are further complicated when their platonic friendship gives way to a more sexual one.Their symbiotic bond is of concern to others (to be queer—in both senses—is no walk in the park, especially in the 70s), and attempts are made to separate the two. But Paul and Julian are determined to stay together, and more than once they tell each other that the idea of life without the other would be unbearable.“[H]e wasn’t afraid anymore. After a lifetime of yearning and trying not to yearn, he imagined the relief of surrendering.”Even if we suspect that Paul and Julian’s intoxicating liaison will have internecine consequences, we are desperate for a moment of reprieve. But Nemerever’s narrative does not let up, not once. Readers will read with increasing anxiety as Paul and Julian embark on an ‘irreversible’ path, alienating those around them. Dread and anguish became my constant companions while I was reading this novel and I’m glad that I choose to read this when I was off work (I devoured this novel in less than 24h) since These Violent Delights is a riveting edge-of-your-seat kind of read. A sense of unease pervades this story as even the early stages of Paul and Julian’s relationship are fraught. Julian is almost secretive when it comes to his family, and disapproves of the contempt Paul harbours towards his own mother. Their love for each other often veers into dislike, if not hatred, and they are quite capable of being extremely cruel to each other. Even so, we can see why they have become so entangled together, and why they oppose anyone who threatens to separate them. But as they enable one other, their teenage angst morphs into a more perturbing sort of behaviour. Time and again we are left wondering who, if anyone, is in control.“All they were—all they had ever been—was a pair of sunflowers who each believed the other was the sun.”My summary of this novel won’t do it justice as I fear I’m making it sound like any other ‘dark’ tale of obsessive friendships (in this case a romantic one but still). It is Nemerever’s writing that elevates his story from ‘interesting’ to exhilarating (and downright distressing). He evokes the claustrophobic and oppressive nature of Paul and Julian’s bond, making us feel as if we too are caught in their all-consuming relationship. Nemerever also acutely renders Paul’s discomforts, the intensity of his love for Julian, his self-loathing, and of his conflicting desires (to be known, to be unknowable). He wants his family to understand him, but in those instances when they prove that they may understand him more than he thinks, he does not hear them out.“All I want to do is make you happy, and you’re the unhappiest person I’ve ever met.”Similarly to The Secret History, the narrative is very much examining the way we can fail to truly see the people closest to us. Paul’s low self-esteem makes him constantly doubt everyone around, Julian included. He perceives slights where there are none and even seems to find a sort of twisted pleasure (or as Lacan would have it, jouissance) in second-guessing Julian’s feelings towards him or in assuming the worst of others. He projects a preconceived image of Julian onto him (someone who is cruel and deceitful, someone who, unlike Paul himself, can easily adapt or pretend to be normal), and this prevents him from seeing him as he truly is. The love Paul feels for Julian is almost fanatical, doomed to be destructive. This is the type of relationship that would not be out of place in the work of Magda Szabó (The Door), Joyce Carol Oates (Solstice) or a Barbara Vine novel (The House of Stairs, No Night is Too Long, A Fatal Inversion) or as the subject of a song by Placebo (I’m thinking of ‘Without You I’m Nothing’).“They were wild and delirious and invincible, and it was strange that no one else could see it.”Nemerever’s writing style is exquisite and mature. I was struck by the confidence of his prose (it does not read like a debut novel). Not one word is wasted, every sentence demands your attention (which is difficult when the story has you flipping pages like no tomorrow). Nemerever brings to life every scene and character he writes of, capturing, for example, with painful precision the crushing disquiet Paul feels (24/7), his loneliness (exacerbated by his queerness and intelligence) and his deep-seated insecurity. Nemerever doesn’t always explicitly states what Paul is feeling, or thinking, and the ambiguity this creates reminded me very much of Shirley Jackson, in particular of Hangsaman (a scene towards the end was particularly reminiscent of that novel). Readers will have to fill the gaps or try to read the subtext of certain scenes or exchanges between P and J. Not only did this book leave me with a huge book hangover but it also left me emotionally exhausted (when I tried picking up other books my mind kept going back to Paul and Julian). Paul is one of the most miserable characters I’ve ever read of. And while he is no angel, I found myself, alongside his family, wanting to help him. But I could also understand him as he strongly reminded me of my own teenage experiences, and of how ‘wretched’ and angsty and alone I felt (woe is me), as well as the fierce, and at times destructive, friendships I formed during those vulnerable years.In spite of what Paul and Julian do, I cared deeply for them. I wanted to 'shake' them, but I also desperately wanted them to be happy.I’m sure I could blather on some more, but I will try and stop myself here. Reading These Violent Delights is akin to watching a slow-motion video of a car accident or some other disaster. You know what will happen but you cannot tear your eyes away. Read this at your own peril!re-read: yes, I am indeed a masochist. I knew that reading this again would hurt but even so, I am once again left devastated by this. The act of reading this book is not dissimilar to riding some diabolical, guts-twisting, puke-inducing rollercoaster where you are anticipating/dreading/exhilarated by the prospect of the encroaching and inevitable drop.Paul and Julian are very damaged individuals and seeing how they hurt themselves, each other, and the people around them, well it was incredibly upsetting (even more so knowing that their behaviour will just get worse over the course of the narrative). Their relationship is simultaneously impenetrable to us and rendered in painful clarity. Time and again we are left wondering who needs who, who wants who, and the differences between these two desires. Rereading this also allowed me to pay attention to Nemerever's skilful use of foreshadowing.Anyway in the interim years since first reading this I have come across books/other media that has similar vibes. Nemerever's ability to capture with unsparing and clear-cut precision Paul's discomfort, self-hatred, and alienation brought to mind Brandon Taylor's Real Life and Filthy Animals. The ambiguous nature of his characters and his razor-sharp examination of privilege reminded me of Susie Yang's psychological thriller, White Ivy. The codependent relationship between Paul and Julian instead reminded me of manga like Let Dai, Volume 01 (the angst in that series is wow) or j-dramas like Utsukushii Kare, or books such If We Were Villains, Summer Sons, Belladonna, or Apartment.Will I ever be brave or foolish enough to read this novel a third time? (spoilers: she was an idiot so...)
3344020001	1.5, rounded up.Although this started out well, by the halfway mark I was so disenchanted, I almost DNF'd it. Like many (most?) debut novels, it suffers from being both overwritten and underdeveloped. A good third of its bloated 463 pages could/should have been jettisoned ... and yet there seemed to be several key scenes that cried out for more information; I never did quite get WHY the two protagonists decide to do a thrill kill - they never even really discuss it, it just suddenly seems to be in the offing. And the gay angle is so oblique, relegated to a few chaste kisses, that it seems almost superfluous - I'm no voyeur, but if anything really could have used some spicy sex scenes to liven things up a bit, this would be it. [Several nasty comments that have been deleted complained that 18-year olds don't have sex - maybe they don't NOW, but they sure as hell did back in the '70's!! I was there!]My other major objection is that for some inexplicable reason, this is set in 1973 (whereas the Leopold & Loeb case this is obviously modeled after occurred in 1924) - yet has almost NO period details that would make you believe it is actually taking place then ... I guess because the author wasn't alive then and is apparently too lazy to do any research. And there are some major glaring anachronisms, such as the introduction of cultural 'code switching' about 40 years before it even was defined as such. Since there are a modicum of effective scenes, I'll grudgingly give it 2 stars, but won't be interested in reading more from this author in future.PS: I am still getting the occasional nasty comment from various people clutching their pearls and calling me a major perv for wanting sex scenes between 'underage' boys. But hey, it's not as if they are 11 - hate to tell ya, but the age of consent in MOST countries, including the US is 18 (or even 16). Heck, in Alabama they'd be considered 'late bloomers' by 16! And interesting that they are old enough to KILL people in these numbnuts' eyes, but not old enough to express love? Look to your own skewed sense of morality - and don't bother posting - you will just be deleted and blocked.
3780620782	mom come pick me up i'm scared
6547235940	my spotify playlist because I am completely normal about this book (alternatively, you could listen to the entirety of The Shark in Your Water album by Flower Face and it’d probably have the same effect) “ ‘It’s both of us.’ There was a crack of desperation in his voice. ‘It’s always been both of us, it’s mutually assured destruction, that was the entire point. And it didn’t do me a damn bit of good, did it?’ ” Listen, I’m always down for queer people who are so obsessed with each other that they commit act(s) of violence as some kind of metaphor or something (it always ends well!), and this is so much that in such a deliciously beautiful, heart wrenching way. was literally shaking during parts of this book, it was all I could think about when I had to put it down. I was buzzing. And going through my notes made me see just how much foreshadowing and symbolism was present in this book. I won’t touch on most of it because, you know, spoilers. However, this book is so primarily focused on emotions and connection rather than the plot so I’m hoping that my emotions about how much I adored it get through to y’all and you decide to pick it up. It’s been weeks and every time I think about this book, I want to slam my head against a wall (compliment). “He would have done anything, anything at all, if it meant Julian would look at him this way a moment longer. The green of his eyes, like white winter light vectored through the crest of a wave; the ravenous grasping for evidence that Paul loved him, and the relief and terror at finding it.” It’s a college in Pittsburg in the 70s, two boys meet in an intro ethics class and appreciate the responses that each of them have when the teacher asks them questions. Friendship blooms quickly, then moves into obsession and love, then a sprinkle of violence occurs. It’s a tale as old as time, really. Paul and Julian are apt names for a very loosely inspired, gender-bent story of Pauline Parker and Juliet Hulme from the movie, Heavenly Creatures , and therefore the Australian - the Parker Hulme murder case. “It’s the two of us, contra mundum, looking down into the machinery. All I’ve ever learned to do is survive it, and that just barely. I’ve always admired your ardor in wanting to smash the gears. What a lonely, dreary thing it is to know the truth. What a relief it is that neither of us has to be alone in knowing.” No matter what, once they join together it is always Paul and Julian against the world. Even when the pain comes from each other, instead of the outside world, it only brings them closer together. Inside their little bubble, they feed on each other—the enabler and the abuser. Through their separate past trauma, the tumultuousness of their relationship, and the reality of being gay in a homophobic world (and most importantly, with homophobic parents), they find solace in each other, drifting on an island alone together. It’s beautiful in a messed-up sort of way. “I want to go far away, start over, pretend we can wake up from this. To stop hurting you, and to hurt you so badly the scars will never fade. Never to see you again. Never to see anything but you.” There is such a thin line drawn between love and hate and violence. Maybe both of them view love as an act of violence. Or one sees love as violence and the other sees love as a sacrifice and believes that giving every single thing to another is the only way that they will love you. The sociopath x enabler ship sails on. And there is such a desperation on both sides. A desperation to not find joy in pain. A desperation to bring your love joy even if that means him causing you pain. (I never said this was a good relationship). “I hope you looked west while I was looking east, and that for a moment you met my eyes without knowing it. I know you never look away, even when your eyes are closed, but I’m never certain you can see what’s really there.” The real bottom line, my real obsession with this book, is that the only thing that sustains me is queer people finding the most pretentious, violent, and tragic ways to express their love for each other and Paul and Julian tick all those boxes. The writing is exquisite, so desperate and beautiful that I was debating just leaving y’all with some quotes and calling it a day. Alas, you have to read my thoughts instead. “There was no revering him anymore. Only love remained, and it was a fragile thing that Paul had been desperate not to see. He couldn’t stand to look at the truth, even now. All they were—all they had ever been—was a pair of sunflowers who each believed the other was the sun.” Having this be in Paul’s point of view effectively warps parts of the story in intriguing ways. There is so much self-hatred that he may not be completely aware of that shapes his views so completely and give the reader a warped view of what’s going on, even if all of the objective facts are correct. There are so many questions I still have about what was really going on with him (repressed? trauma?), but the end result was the same: a failure to understand that anyone could love him and simply just love him and a refusal to believe that anyone would choose him just to have him. There is such a desperation in him, or maybe a belief that love will never be enough, that all it does will cause pain, that there is a physical response of disgust whenever he feels as though he is shown pure love with no intention or game behind it. It makes for a very intriguing read. “ ‘Just tell me there’s a girl—I won’t get angry. If you two are out there chasing shiksas, you wouldn’t be the first, just tell me so I’ll know at least you’re a normal boy—’ ” Surprise! There’s homophobia in Pittsburg in the 70s! Bet you didn’t see that one coming. I’d say it’s about what you’d expect from a book set in the 70s, and I’m not going to discuss it for too long because it is quite expected, but I did think it was incredibly important and indicative of both boys to see how their families (both homophobic) reacted to the knowledge (or guess) that their son is gay and how. . . different the reactions and resulting actions were because of that. I want to also touch on the fact that there a brief moments of antisemitism against Paul throughout this book as well, just for people who would like to be warned about it. “ ‘I kill them [butterflies] because they’re beautiful, and it’s the only way I can keep them.’ ” There’s a lot of foreshadowing here in a way that is very focused on both Julian’s hobby—chess—and Paul’s hobby—catching butterflies—that feels a bit blatant, but I really do love it especially because of how well they portray the ways that Paul and Julian view the world, especially regarding to love and relationships. The butterflies were one of the most impactful parts of the stories to me as we see how Paul treats beautiful things and the lengths he will go to keep them, his twisted view of love, the lengths he will go to preserve a beautiful thing. The only cover of this book that has butterflies (that I could find) was the Bulgarian cover which is a real shame because there is so much that could’ve been done with this book and butterflies on the cover. While the butterflies and chess talk foreshadows, Paul’s waxing and waning desire to be seen serves as a bit of reflection of things that have just passed. “Paul wasn’t sure he would ever grow used to it—this precipitous thrill of being seen and known and understood,” when the relationship between him and Julian is first budding and he feels he is both seen and able to show himself with a mask for the first in his life. A little further along, when he is convinced that he is fully known but Julian isn’t, he laments, “For all the pains Paul was taking to hold his unhappiness below the surface, some part of him was grateful to be seen.” As he grows more and more in his relationship with Julian and they learn the more monstrous parts of each other, both still holding tight and loving each other in spite of, or maybe because of, these violent delights, he thinks, “It was a relief and a horror to be known so perfectly.” A part of this seems to be mirroring his thoughts about loving someone, especially a man in 1970s Pittsburg—a relief and a horror. There is never peace in this relationship, but can there be peace? Or will there always be something violent about the way they love where their relationship cannot be anything but tumultuous and violent? Finally, at the end Paul thinks of his sister, “When she met Paul’s eyes, it was as if she were seeing him for the first time. He couldn’t remember why he’d ever wanted to be seen,” and there are so many ways that can be read and they are all probably a little true and more than a little heartbreaking. “His fear was so absolute that Paul knew it would be there forever. There was something absent in his eyes; Paul couldn’t remember what they had looked like before. He’d never told Julian how beautiful they were, because he had thought it self-evident. He’d believed that of far too many things.” There was a point in this book where I was worried the book wouldn’t hit hard for me, or I should say that there was a point in this book where the action started and I no longer felt like I was being consumed by the story. It’s a little odd when you think about it. What is assumed to be the climax is revealed fairly early in the book so the reader knows what the story is leading up to the whole book, but I couldn’t help but feel a bit sad when the lens into these two messed up boys’ lives and their messed up relationship was shifted into an actual plot, if even for a little bit. I was dying to keep the focus on Julian and Paul, becoming as obsessed with them as they were with each other, getting frustrated with any distraction. However, the book shifts back to the real “plot” (the relationship between Paul and Julian) and ends in a way that had my mouth hanging open. It’s violent and satisfying in the way that it isn’t violent enough to compare to the rest of their relationship and it isn’t satisfying enough to be able to stop me from obsessing over what happened next. It’s violently ripped out from you and is reduced to a simmer. It’s the perfect ending for this book. “ ‘It was your fucking delusion that if you just made yourself strong and cold and heartless and everything you aren’t—if you could just make yourself ‘better,’ if you could destroy every part of you that’s worth loving, then you wouldn’t ever have to be afraid again. That was what you needed me to do, and I would have done anything, god help me, I would have done anything for you. I thought you’d finally trust me if you knew I’d kill for you, and it still isn’t enough. I don’t know why I thought it ever could be enough, nothing ever will be. . . I thought I’d finally found a way to love you and have you even notice I was doing it. How sick is that? I’m just as much of a monster as you are.’ ” 5/5
4788474319	[4.75]honestly sometimes you just need to fall in love with your best friend and slowly descend into madness all the way to committing murder together, and that’s okay!
3586094627	This book really was a fever-dream of obsession and spiralling mentality. Initially starting this book, it hit a lot of themes you would expect from a story dubbed as "dark academia". The prologue throws you right into some shady business, and so you head into this book knowing that somehow, somewhere, this plot will escalate dramatically. Adding on the immediate display of intelligence via ethical debates in college, the appreciation for art, and the macabre interests of both characters, the dark academia vibes are strong. As mentioned in the synopsis, this all starts with a relationship between two guys and their increasing obsession with each other. Note that this isn't a good kind of obsession - far from it. This is the intoxicating, delirious kind, that ultimately leads to a huge amount of tension between mentalities. Neither of our main characters can be trusted, their personalities being built through unreliable views and ever-changing narratives. Reading through Paul's perspective, it's never quite clear what the truth of the matter is, every situation being tinted by his pure self-loathing. You wouldn't think an emotion - or a belief - like that would affect a story so considerably, but ohhhh how this book proves otherwise.It really is a wild ride of a read. It's possible that for some readers, it would be increasingly frustrating with its constant switch in narrative, the never quite knowing if everything is truth or lie. But I couldn't help getting caught up in it, this big overwhelming story feeling close-knit and private for everyone involved. Everything else merged into the background - the monotony of college life, the persistence of family members. All became irrelevant as the focus zoned in on Paul and Julian, reflecting their relationship perfectly. (Please note, this is not a healthy relationship by any means and this book is accompanied by a few content warnings - see end of review).This entire book feels like a huge manipulation game. Between the characters, how they play the narrative, how it makes you believe certain things right until the last moment - it was fascinating to read. Micah Nemerever does a brilliant job of reflecting the obsessive mindset consuming his characters, pulling you in just as far. Not so much a thriller as a slow spiralling of mental state, this is one which slowly pulls you in and refuses to let go.CW: abuse, self-harm, suicide, homophobia
3410444058	Actual rating: 3.5 (rounded down)This book—this BOOK!I’m trying so very hard to parse my emotions into something organized; into something that makes sense, but...Let me just say: for a debut, this is a soaring achievement. The prose is beautiful and far beyond anything I’ve read since Donna Tartt’s incomparable The Secret History. I know it’s touted as THS meets CMBYN, but I didn’t see much of that, really. It’s more in line with the Leopold and Loeb case (as mentioned), than those literary works. However, as clever and well-written as it is, a lot of it went right over my head. Much of the syntax is—in my personal opinion—unnecessarily obtuse and vague. Many a time I could not grasp what the hell these characters were trying to say; the meaning behind their words and actions. Nemerever made it difficult for me to decipher the emotions and feelings (if not expressly pointed out to me). So, much of the time I was like, “Is Paul really thinking this?” “Does Julian actually mean that?” “WHAT IS GOING ON?!?” But it was too often too subtle to be a major issue. 200 pages in, and I was altogether confounded by what Paul and Julian’s “relationship” really was. All I kept thinking was, “Do they even LIKE each other?” All they do is hurt one another—always miserable and full of disdain. I couldn’t figure it out. Their toxic codependency was draining. Maybe I’m too dense to understand it (which makes me feel terribly dumb), but... yeah. That lack of clarity in my mind really detached me from the story.As far as the two main characters go, I found them pretty damn insufferable. I don’t mind unlikable characters, or even characters I don’t connect with, but these two really bogged down the story with page after page after page of emotional and physical destruction. Julian and Paul, too, were experts—it would seem—at reading body language and expressions. Every moment was, “His face said this” “The way he holds his cigarette means this” “You could tell he was hurting inside by how his pores opened and closed” (okay, that last one is obviously not literal)—but honestly, they read everyone’s looks and glances and the way they held themselves... it was too much telling in deciphering every goddamn little thing. I found it way too unbelievable that they could comprehend so thoroughly the subtleties of everyone around them by just an expression or movement.I wish their relationship contained any semblance of love or truth or romance. There was no warmth here that I could ascertain. Instead, it came off as horribly destructive, emotionally abusive, and exceedingly depressing.ALSO, I really think this would’ve benefited from a first-person narration rather than third person. Just my own opinion on that.After all of that, I can’t bring myself to give this a lower rating. I don’t know why, but even through all the misery and hate—and unlikeable characters— I found this book (at times) mesmerizing to behold. There is very rarely seen a queer dark academia novel, and I’m thankful to the author for giving us this gem (if only it’d been just a hair less dreary). There needs to be more LGBTQIA+ lit that checks these boxes.In the end, well, all that’s left is to talk about the ending. And while personally disappointing and uncomfortably vague (and left me feeling miserable), I also found myself impressed, because it made me think and go back to read earlier passages. I’m still thinking about it hours and hours later. Micah Nemerever is certainly a talent to watch. PRE-REVIEW “The Secret History meets Call Me By Your Name”...Bitch, you had me at “The”!
3419205197	no context review:come through homoerotic academic thrillers;"you wanted crazy? well, you got it now!" BROWN, Tammie;sober II (melodrama) by Lorde.
3891124248	These Violent Delights is a book that in so many words says so little.Paul is a young prodigy and son of a former police officer, now dead as a result of suicide. In college at the age of 16, he meets Julian, an heir and Nietzsche fan, and they immediately fall in with one another. This friendship becomes romantic and it leads them down a dark path in which murder becomes the name of the game. As Paul strives to figure out if Julian truly loves him, and Julian acts out to guide Paul to his love, they find themselves in quandary and with no clear path out but to fall into each other.Micah Nemerever writes a compelling story in These Violent Delights, but this story is hidden in an extremely overwritten book. The detail the writing encompasses is overbearing and makes the story seem slow and unmoving when in fact so much is happening. The constant detail, scene building, and character describing creates a book that is so bogged down in its own language that the characters and their stories get left behind. Paul and Julian are compelling characters, if only they weren't hidden behind so many words.
3210647612	As a reader, the problem with finding that Perfect Book™ is that, talking about why we love it so much makes us feel vulnerable and exposed to everyone around us. I want to tell y'all about all the minor details in this book that made me go absolutely feral, why exactly I had that sort of visceral reaction in the first place — BUT — that feels like too much vulnerable feelings and truth to reveal to strangers on the internet.UNFORTUNATELY(?!), I also NEED people to pick this book up! Which is hard when I can't even explain WHY I think you need to pick it up! That's the dilemma I have been in ever since I read These Violent Delights by Micah Nemerever last year, and I'm finally gonna try to convince you all to read it.Now, if you're asking “hey Sai, isn't this book about 2 guys who murder people, why do you keep saying you find it relatable?”and my response to that question is: it is NONE of your business and I refuse to answer anything further without my lawyer present. thanks very much.BUT SERIOUSLY, there's just something so visceral and vulnerable about the book and the way it's written. I am just OBSESSED with each and every character. Paul and Julian are like, the only people in the world who understand each other SO WELL, and they hate the rest of the world together. They mutually find others to be bores and find solace and a sense of belonging only with each other.BUT THEY'RE ALSO *SO* NOT GOOD FOR EACH OTHER. Both of them think the other person doesn't love them back and end up being toxic to each other. When they're not cocooned next to each other in peace, they're flinging barbed insults at each other trying to pick at the chinks in each other's armor. It's this dynamic of self-hate, co-dependency, the desire to murder the whole world for this one person (even if it kills you) but also the urge to murder the other person cause they're driving you insane. It is just perfectly balanced and beautifully done, I still vividly remember it despite having read it TWELVE MONTHS AGO!And we haven't even spoken about the GORGEOUS WRITING in this book! It is so poetic, and reading it made me feel like I'm being slightly suffocated by this undertow of violence and tension. The pacing and intrigue is perfectly done, I never felt like I was reading a 500-page whopper - in fact, i wish it had been longer JUST SO I can experience more of Micah's beautiful writing. I cannot believe this is someone's DEBUT book, cause like, wow. it's PERFECTION!There are more things about the book that I want to talk about, like the chess analogies, the excellent messy queer people rep, the ending (GOD, THE ENDING!!!) - honestly, i want to do a comprehensive character study of both Paul and Julian's psyche and answer why they are the way they are. But that's for every reader to interpret on their own.I love that These Violent Delights features messy queer protagonists. I've come to realize that I only ever want to read about messy queer folks doing messy, morally grey/morally reprehensible things. The publishing industry really needs to get on this train and give us more books like this. And until then, I will be SCREAMING about this delicious, scrumptious, dark and amazingly written book to anyone who would listen. This book is definitely 100% THAT bitch, and you really should not miss out on it. 6/5 stars! -------------------------------------------------Pre-Review:I think i've put off writing this review long enough, this is one SCRUMPTIOUS novel and I need y'all to pick it up as soon as it releases. I will NOT take no for an answer. REVIEW TO COME
4788746714	Can’t believe I let this book ruin my life a second time. Review to come. First read: I feel like I need to reread this to be able to write a review. Might use that as an excuse to reread it rn bc this shit was amazing 😭😭
4809078945	** spoiler alert ** Edit: I just watched a movie called Heavenly Creatures (1994) that’s almost the same as this book but in lesbian and now I’m in the need of a reread bc then I found out that THESE CHARACTERS ARE NAMED PAUL AND JULIAN AFTER THEM, PAULINE AND JULIET-“In perfect play, white always wins.”OH. MY. GOD. I AM SO FUCKING OBSESSED WITH THIS BOOK. WHERE DO I EVEN START TO ANALYZE THIS MASTERPIECE??I just LOVE how every single sentence hinted to the end. The whole chess thing was a metaphor for their relationship; Julian obsesses throughout the plot with discovering WHERE did the game go wrong, and on the last line of the book, we see that he’s marked the opening move in red. It was doomed since the beginning, just like their relationship."Maybe Kaplan's just so good that white is doomed no matter how perfectly Kazlauskas plays"Julian always played white, paralleling maybe how much he really tried to be better for their relationship. Ofc he gets obsessed, but that’s the point.He just wanted to love and to be loved, since his parents didn’t care for him. We know that since the beginning when Julian tells Paul that he [Paul] could do anything to him and he would let him, and then he asks Paul to tell him that he loves him, even if it’s just pretend, because he wants to feel like at least somebody does.He doesn’t let Paul know much about his family, except for how much he despises them, and since we’re seeing everything from Paul’s perspective, he makes us think that Julian is just hiding information deliberately because he doesn’t trust him and uses this to have some power over him or smth, and he starts thinking he’s cruel and so.But if we analyze everything again, after having read the end, we can see that he just didn’t want to involve him because his family was actually trash (and this loneliness of his is the reason why he gets into this hella toxic and abusive relationship with Paul), unlike Paul’s family. Paul tells us that his family is horrible, that his mother victimizes herself and that they make him go through hell, and at first we believe it, because we’re seeing every thing from HIS perspective. But as we get to know them, we realize that they did nothing to him; they actually loved him ?? His mother was just depressed for her husband’s suicide, and not talking about it was her way of dealing with it ig, but they never did anything… bad to him. They even accepted the fact that he was gay after a while, and treated Julian as if he was part of the family. Julian even tells him (when they’re planning to get out of Pittsburgh to another college) that they shouldn’t move to a far far town since he has a family that’s actually worth visiting.There are one hundred things I want to say from here. Since we are seeing the story and relationship through Paul’s perception only, as I mentioned already, at first we get to think that Julian is the the manipulative son of a bitch, because Paul tells us how cruel he is all the time (just like we think his family is bad). But that’s what he TELLS us not what is HAPPENING.As I said before, Julian’s loneliness made him crave love, but Paul was always distrusting the sincerity of it, telling us it was ‘cruelty’ from his part when he showed him affection. Julian tells him several times “I never lie to you, even if you don’t believe me”and Paul says that, in fact, he doesn’t believe him. This hints at how distorted his perception of everything really was because of his distrust. He’s always saying that Julian was a liar, and cruel, and all, but looking at his actions, he was never any of that.There is a scene in which they’re buying vinyls and Paul tells us that Julian was being cruel for buying them and not letting him pay anything, and that he THOUGHT he was gonna hit him after saying he didn’t like an album and Julian searched another, but if we look beyond what he is SAYING and we just SEE the scene as it happened, Julian did absolutely nothing.However we get to think later that both of them are toxic in their own way, but as the plot progresses, we realize that Paul is the only abuser.We are told in the first pages that he was going to be expelled from school because he hit another boy with a locker and left him needing 15 stitches, but it is not given more importance. Paul says that “he had it coming", but he never tells us what he did to deserve it. We only have his version of that story, and it is enough to assume that it must be true. In the same way, we only have his side of the story to know that Julian was the manipulator who would leave him one day, since he would only want him as long as he could be interesting.Paul is obsessed with proving that he can be interesting and worth of Julian’s love, but looking at Julian's actions throughout the story, we realize that it is HE who really seems to have something to prove, even though it is mentioned that he had “everything under control" and that he always had a "mask of tranquility." Somewhere near the middle, however, Paul starts telling us that Julian reveals a "weakness." That he tries to appear serene with a false calm that he can't believe he once thought real, and that it was as if he didn't know him, or were seeing him for the first time.And yet, since the beginning it is clear that he has that weakness when he tells Paul "you could do anything to me and I'd let you."And, precisely, Paul comes to physically hurt him on multiple occasions because he lets him. The first time when Julian tells him to beat him until he begs him to stop, which Paul does without much questioning. After making him bleed almost to death, he despairs saying that he’s so sorry and that he was only doing what Julian wanted. Julian tells him then that it was what he TOLD him to do, not what he WANTED.There are so much more things to analyze here.Before that scene, they had a class on ethics and morals, where they discussed an experiment in which the researchers told Yale students to electrocute some people if they answered wrong, because the point of the experiment was that people don't have real morals, given that if an authority (in this case the scientists) tells them that something is right, they will not think for themselves and will only continue on doing so, following the orders and the limits imposed. So, given that Paul was defending that point, I was surprised by his hypocrisy by not questioning himself if it was really okay to hit Julian and do what he told him, but, of course, everything always pointed to that.When he stops beating him, Julian takes it upon himself to comfort Paul for beating him, and we're told that “All along it had been Paul who was meant to plead for mercy”. “The real violence was in how gentle Julian was-how near reassurances came to absolution while stopping just short on granting it.” GIRL WHAT??? The book makes us think that that is true because it's what Paul THINKS, but THERE IS NO WAY JULIAN COULD BE THE BAD GUY IN THIS SITUATION, WTF ??? We are seeing the entire book and relationship from the wrong perception of the abuser. Julian forgiving him is just showing how much of a victim he was, because he didn’t want to leave that relationship.(I could write 50 pages about why you didn’t understand the book if you think that Julian was an abuser).I mean, of course both of them were obsessed. But in Julian we can see that he was just a stupid kid who wanted to love and to be loved. He accepted everything from Paul because he was the only one who gave him that-at least in some way.And here is where I get into the murder part, because it shows my point just perfectly fine.Since I picked this book up thinking it was about murder AND a toxic relationship, I was expecting to see a more detailed description of the murder part. I wanted to see a smart plan, a thrilling hunt, a grotesque description of it.But as the plot progresses, we realize that it was never intended to be a crime book. The fact that their plan was dumb, the fact that we only see Julian’s reaction (which is clearly fear and regret) and not the murder itself, makes us realize that they were just stupid kids trying to prove something to themselves and each other, as we see from Stepanek’s pov when he says they’re “just kids.” “They’re not angels, they’re just kids.” Julian getting to kill someone (or at least participating in it), is just to showing how far he would go to keep Paul and show him that he loved him (again, he was the one who had something to prove to the other).Somewhere near the end, Julian tells him that he is tormented by the crime, and by seeing how much Paul had enjoyed it. He only encouraged him to do it because he thought that would make him happy and prove that he loved him, but it is never enough for him; Paul is still distrusting him and feeling like he has to prove something.(Going back to the hiking scene, it also gives us a glimpse of this problem, when the police goes to interrogate Julian after Paul mentioned them his name. They have a fight because he didn’t warn Julian, as he had requested. He says that he of course sticked to the script they had of the alibi and all, so he didn’t get arrested, but he’s still mad because he had only asked for onething and it was to be warned. He tells Paul that he never cares about what he wants.)“All I want is to make you happy, but you’re the unhappiest person I know.”As sad and disturbing as their ending is, I can’t help but love the perfection of it. Every moment was feeding that ending; every single line was hinting at Paul trying to kill Julian.I had the feeling it would happen since Paul started to obsess with the perfect painting of a dead person, and to talk about how he could never get enough of Julian, but I was 100% sure it would happen after the hiking scene, because even before Paul beats Julian, they’re hunting butterflies and Paul says: “I kill them because they’re beautiful, and it’s the only way I can keep them”. And that is EXACTLY what he tries to do in that scene.By the end they had already ‘solved’ their fight, gotten away from the police and decided to start again, without distrust and violence. Everything seems almost fine, except for the eerie feeling you get from the parts narrated as Paul’s diary. He already spoils everything saying that he would make Julian understand, that it’s the only way they can get out and be together. I couldn’t help but cry when Julian still tried to forgive him when he’s trying to kill him.It is impossible to not feel utterly devastated by everything that happens between them, even if it was a horrible and toxic relationship, for this kind relationships tend to start from something that feels like ‘true love’ (even if it never was), until it becomes toxic, horrible and obsessive, revealing the true nature of it, but you can’t just… leave it because you’re trapped, thinking that ‘love’ is still there. The characters are so well written that they feel like real people, and so you feel every raw emotion of theirs.As it is told from Paul’s distorted perception, you’re also influenced by his thoughts, so even if I knew they should break up, get professional help and never see each other again, it was impossible to not feel sad, mad and disgusted with everything that got in their way (whether from the outside or from themselves).Another point I found very interesting is one that the author himself puts in the final note: how passionate can a first same-gender relationship be and how obsessive it could become. Because even if obsessive love has no gender, you can feel like you’ve found your only love in life when you happen to be i your first relationship as a queer person, and that if it ever comes to an end (which you feel impossible and ridiculous) you will never find another one.At least for myself, I never found it in real life, since my way of living has always been isolated, but I recall being so confident and passionate about a girl I met online being the love of my life at 14, and how devastating it was when it ended.I MEAN. Of course I’m not saying that that happens with every queer relationship, nor even with the majority, this book is just exploring what it would become in its most extreme scenario. I’m just saying that that passionate feeling is something that indeed happens, and it was so interesting to see depicted in a book in that fictitious extreme scenario.So yeah, those were my chaotic thoughts on this. Paul’s character is also very complex and interesting, but I’d need to reread it to give him a real analysis.Former review:THAT FUCKING LAST LINE OMFG. HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO JUST KEEP LIVING AFTER THIS
3495538523	Sometimes I read a story that haunts me, not necessarily in a negative way. These books draw me in, and I can’t let go. Even when I’m not reading, I still think about them or have this feeling in my chest I can’t describe. These Violent Delights was such a book. It was so incredibly tense and obsessive, and it made me thoughtful and breathless. Although this story is about two seventeen-year-olds (in the first chapters, Paul is even only sixteen), it’s definitely not an easy read. It’s dark and sad with many philosophical treatises (especially at the beginning) that I didn’t always understand, so I googled a lot. At the same time, nothing really happened. And still, the story got me hooked to the pages. To be honest, at times, I forgot that Paul and Julian were only seventeen, they felt older to me. I wanted to know them so badly, to understand why they did what they did. Sometimes they felt distant, and I wanted to shake them up, and at other times I wanted to hold and hug them tight. Julian was the most distant one for me, but the more I read, the more I understood his struggles behind the endless masks he wore. It seemed as Paul had never peace in his mind, but that also applied to Julian, even if it was less visible. I made a lot of notes while reading, and as I described above, even if I wasn’t reading, the story was with me all the time. And even though I didn’t always understand everything and detested some parts of the story, there was so much going on in my body and mind when I was reading and after I had been reading. It’s a story to never forget; that ending! Holy ...! An incredible debut by a genius author.Follow me on Instagram
4061960970	so dull i almost didn’t finish it. the main problem this book suffers is that it’s a lot of telling, not showing. from the moment the two protagonists meet, we are told that these boys have an obsessive bond which eventually turns into a site of darkness and violence, but we never really watch this supposed relationship grow. i wasn’t sold on their ‘connection’ at all, it all felt flat. as a whole the novel feels very fake deep, and it doesn’t have the substance to be as intelligent as it’s trying to be. it’s a long book, but those pages aren’t used to their full potential; it’s all just very undeveloped. i know not every ‘dark academia’ book is trying to be like ‘the secret history’ but……you’ll never be her.
4562590239	Reading this book reminded me why Dark Academia is the best genre. This was thrilling, addicting and horrifying. It also had two of the most unlikable characters as the protagonists. Which made this even more interesting.
3730653795	*4.5 still absolutely in love with this story and these characters and nemerevers exploration of loneliness and all consuming queer relationships. let gay people be evil again!!!
3879973514	2.5 starsI keep thinking books about obsessive, romantic friendships gone wrong are my thing, but then I actually read them and feel like the GIF of that lady squinting at all the math equations.Part of the issue is that I need the author to really sell me the intense connection. I need them to not only convince me these characters want to crawl inside each other's skin but also give me the reason why they want to, why they have chosen each other. So often though, I am left unconvinced of the bond. I did not feel like Paul and Julian's relationship felt natural or well-developed, and I was a bit confused about their attraction to one another.Beyond that, in books with pretentious, young characters who feel that they alone bear the burden of truly understanding life, I usually want there to be some sort of outside voice that exposes how silly and dangerous that is. While I don't think this book is saying Paul and Julian are so right and so smart, the reader exists only inside Paul's exhausting mind where he does think that he and Julian are so right and so smart, and to me that is just so tedious. Reading 450 pages of smug pretentiousness that is rarely checked or called out for being delusional is irritating.There are a lot of moments where the characters understood something (or thought they understood something) that I didn't. I always felt a disconnect with the story because the way Paul's feelings and thoughts are communicated feels both vague and overly complicated. I never fully understood how he felt and why he felt that way. His emotions were always hidden behind the novel's wordiness, so I never felt like I could crack him. The characters' thoughts and feelings are trapped behind behind a veil of pretentiousness, and I wished that we had gotten to see behind that veil. Paul's violence and anger feel unexplored, and I'm a bit confused whether he is supposed to read as sympathetic in any way. The author's note makes me think maybe he is, but the actual story makes me feel otherwise. Paul doesn't read like a lonely and misunderstood character pushed to the brink to me. He reads like a terrible person who needs serious help, and I'm not sure if that's what Nemerever was aiming for.There's an interesting and well-written story in here somewhere. I just feel that These Violent Delights is so bogged down with wordiness and overwrought descriptions that add little to the novel as a whole. Then, after all that wordiness, the book ends rather abruptly with a lot of things still left unexplored, which left me feeling confused as to what I was supposed to take from it. Sure, Paul and Julian are fucked up and do fucked up things to one another, but why am I supposed to care? What am I supposed to have learned?
3529191327	I finally gave up a little over 200 pages in. It's well-written, but the two main characters are so intensely unlikeable that I don't care what happens to them. It's just page after page of two miserable, self-loathing teenagers being terrible to each other with occasional bursts of family drama and angsty, disappointing sex. I loved The Secret History and Call Me By Your Name, and I understand the comparison, but this book has none of the qualities I found so captivating in those titles. No steamy romance, no well-paced suspense, just two toxically codependent young men with superiority complexes bonding over murder fantasies. My desire to know how the story ends finally lost out to my desire to stop slogging my way through this book.
3319822385	THE LAST SENTENCE. I'm not screaming, you are.I've been procrastinating on this review for months. Because I have no idea how to put my thoughts into words that 1) make sense and 2) can do this book justice. Sometimes I come across a book that leaves me speechless with how well written it is. This book is part of that small pond of books, but at the same time it's kind of out of this world compared to the others. And there's no way anyone can understand what it makes you feel without reading it.This book is an excellent character study. It is slow to get there, but eventually Paul's psyche is laid out for you to dissect. At the end of the book you completely understand all his choices as you know him so well, in and out. In fact, when I got to that final chapter, I knew exactly what he was going to do pages before he actually decided to go for it. At the forefront of this book there's also the toxic friendship/relationship between Paul and Julian. In the first half I was mesmerized by their chemistry and codependency, how they kept pushing and pulling as if they had no choice but to stay together. The second half had me horrified at where that codependency ended up. I'm so surprised to see this is a debut novel, because these two topics in particular are so well done and realistic they gave me goosebumps every single page. Such mastery of words comes only if you’re very experienced or if you have an exceptional innate talent. Although I struggled a bit to get through this book, I think it was necessary for it to be this slow-paced. This is a book where every little detail counts. Both Paul's monologues and the dialogue between him and Julian had me hyperconcentrated because yes, this book has beautiful writing, but also because they were so in sync at times I felt like I skipped a whole page of them talking without me. The more you read the more it's like these characters have their own inside jokes and you're intruding as the third wheel.This novel is about Paul trying to fill a void he doesn't understand, with whatever he thinks is going to heighten his emotions or give him an adrenaline rush, without knowing that next time he will need something bigger, and worse. And it's about Julian falling in the trap, thinking they both need each other to keep the darkness at bay.Honestly, I've never read anything quite like this. It’s so pretentious and sad, I loved it.
3725082876	This book is dark. It's a story of Paul's and Julian's obsessive love (is it really love though?) that drives them to do the unspeakable act of the prologue. As mentioned in the author's note at the end, the story is loosely inspired by the Leopold and Loeb case in 1924. The story is broken into four parts: (I) falling in love, (II) love turning to obsession, (III) lead up to the act, (IV) aftermath. I loved the first and last part but found the middle to drag on a bit. The book uses a 3rd-person narration, from the point-of-view of Paul. One of the strengths of the novel is how Paul over-analyzes everyone around him--their expressions, body language, responses, and omissions. It paints him as sharp, calculated, and a little cold. However, while effective, I thought this was a little overused and made the story tedious (or as Julian would say, "terribly boring") as it dragged on. (view spoiler)[For most of the novel, I didn't suspect Paul's narration, which is why I found the over-analyzing tedious (and even pretentious, as some other reviewers have pointed out). It was Paul's failed attempt to kill them both at the end that finally changed this. Though he sounds sane in his narration, I think Paul is actually a very unreliable narrator. As readers, we got a massively warped view of Paul's life and his relationship with Julian.There were so many signs too! Strauss warning Paul that his thesis was leaning towards the nihilistic, Julian repeatedly proclaiming his love to Paul (and Paul consistently refusing to comprehend), and Audrey's ability to see through Paul's many masks.I probably don't have the energy to, but I think this would be very interesting to re-read with the knowledge that Paul is an unreliable narrator. While the over-analyzing of everything in the middle of the novel made the story drag for me, I think I would see this in a new light now. (hide spoiler)]
7102876502	Witaj, córko prawie-chrzestna (synu?)
4161953237	Not for everyone, but I adored it. Absolutely loved the writing, loved the characters, love the vibe of the whole story. It's tense, dark, disturbing, obsessive and really pulls you in if you're into these kinds of stories. The only thing I'm a bit unsure about is the ending, but the more I think about it, the more I feel like it suits the story.
3606140442	I hated absolutely everything about this book, most of all maybe all the time I lost dragging myself to finish it.
5364057748	man i sure do hope the other “these violent delights” by chloe gong is better than this…. whatever it was. pretentious bullshit. that’s what it was. there is no reason behind the murder that paul and julian commit and guess what? there’s no point! no resolution! no nothing! daddy’s money gets them out of it! can we have queer relationships without the toxic, violent nonsense? or fuck at least write like it’s for publication and not for tumblr.
7827353083	be gay do crime
4320786230	july 2022 reread: stanley milgram you sick sonofabitchthanks micah nemerever for breaking my final brain cell guess its elevator music up in here from now on !!
4907393276	This is how you do dark academia.Julian is a trust fund baby, perpetually surrounded by people and seemingly destined for greatness. Paul is a nervous, Jewish boy; strange, lonely, and unable to slot himself into the expectations of the world around him. Together they fall into an obsessive relationship that borders on cruelty, affection, and need.The prose was Donna Tartt level and I highlighted at least something every paragraph. The explorations of philosophy and how we shape ourselves to fit the mould of society is breathtakingly poignant and gut-punchingly real. ”All most people care about is pretending everyone is exactly the same as they are, and he wasn't, he couldn't be, he knew too much about what the world really is. Those people don't care about anything except reinforcing their own fucking normalcy by making you reflect it back at them—"Ineluctable Julian is ravenously curious and diffident Paul is quietly raging. Together, they create a dark duo of yearning hunger. They wanted each other in the way of flesh wanting to knit itself together over a wound.If The Secret History, The Picture of Dorian Grey, A Little Life, and Real Life had a baby, you would have this delectably deranged, derisive, desperate book. The ending of this book was perfect and I feel utterly lost and bereaved finishing this incredible story.*Reread for republication - arc gifted by Transworld! Bookstagram
4045528861	꧁ 4.25 stars ꧂ "All they were—all they had ever been—was a pair of sunflowers who each believed the other was the sun." "These Violent Delights" is one of those books which offer the readers a false sense of security, it whispers in their ears that everything is all right - when they are anything but....You know better than to believe these words. The novel centers on two social outcasts, Paul and Julian, who first connect in their freshman ethics class in 1970s Pittsburgh. Paul is still recovering from the trauma of his father's sudden death. He's also dealing with the aftermath of an unexpected incident that had him removed from his previous school. In one of his early classes, he meets Julian Fromme, an intriguing and charming boy who is as drawn to Paul as Paul is to Julian and the two quickly become inseparable. But as their friendship grows into more, the boundaries between affection and obsession blur, until both boys become desperate to prove the lengths they’ll each go to stay together."These Violent Delights" is a dark academia but I wouldn't call it suspense/thriller. This book is more like a literary fiction. It's a book about murder, obsession, violence, cruelty, intellect and passion. And it's also queer. I mean what is a dark academia novel if It isn't Queer? The prose is so beautiful that the words would be immediately absorbed by your brain and for a fleeting moment you may feel as though something just stabbed you in the heart. There’s a surreal, dreamscape quality to the prose. It’s vividly descriptive. This is a book written for readers interested in complex, nuanced, and deeply introspective books. I technically don't like such complex work of literature, but I just couldn't experience and then ignore the beauty that "These Violent Delights" is. The mixture of eloquent writing with psychological depth and an addictive plot is exactly what I needed. The pacing is agonizingly slow. And it's pretty evident that the author does it deliberately. He first creates a strenuous tangle of events, raising a load of heavy questions and then he untwines with a masterful grace. We usually search for things to keep us grounded, don't we? But this book offers the readers something exactly opposite of that. It would make you feel weightless. You'll feel like you're floating two hands above the ground, always coming near and nearer but never actually touching the hard surface of the land. It is such a mesmerising experience! I'm still reeling from the after effect of it. To open these pages is to embark on a journey with two boys as different as they are similar, but who are singularly capable of twisting affection into horror. These violent delights indeed have violent ends––only the violence that awaits is part of an impeccable part of the experience. The book offers an insightful psychological reflection on insecurity, obsession and the lengths some poeple will go to feel seen, to feel important, to feel loved. "If you paint a masterpiece and then set it on fire, it still would have mattered. If you know you’ve made something beautiful, who cares how long it lasts." "These Violent Delights" is heavily character focused. The story revolves around Paul and Julian. Both of the boys are deviously smart. But They aren't the type of characters to like. You'll hate them. Sometimes you would want to beat them to death. They were doomed from the first, the book only tell us the story of how it all happened. Apart from these two, the other characters are pretty bland and shallow. I would have liked to have a finer cast of side characters. But overall, the thought Paul and Julian are enough to keep the plot moving and keep you at the edge of your seat. Often it's hard to remember that Paul and Julian are only seventeen. Their intellectual level is really high from the average. They are like old souls at heart, matured from the traumas they endured and the scars they carry. Both delight in being intellectually superior, building walls where they convince themselves that no one understands them. "Side by side they are twin angels on a headstone, cold and terrible and immutable. They were boys once, he remembers, but they aren't anymore." I would have loved to give this book 5 stars. I almost did. But then I decided against it. There were some parts I clearly didn't enjoy. Lots of parts of it are unrealistic and would promote eyerolls from the readers. Specially the ending. The ending is sudden and abrupt. The lack of explanation felt pretentious.With everything being said, "These Violent Delights" is a must read book for dark academia lovers. It's addictive and an absolute page turner. The pacing might be slow but it, no way, hampers your reading experience. In fact, I would say that slow pacing is exactly what is needed here....
4812684359	Micah Nemerever could write The Secret History but Donna Tartt could never write These Violent Delights.
3869182239	...and you play along,because you want to die for love,you always have.- Richard SikenMe: I just really hate "The Secret History".Goodreads: This book can be best described as "The Secret History" meets -Me: Say no more. *adds to cart*I don't know what it says about me but I just really like reading about gay, all-consuming love.The kind of love that is so full of yearning and pain and violence, so unhealthy, that when confronted with it in real life I would recoil and condemn.But put it into literature? Give me a fictional couple that is hurting each other in the most fucked up ways and calls it love? I am already tattooing their rawest quotes on my body as we speak.Cause didn't a wise man once say, that love is violence? (i don't know who said it and i'm full of pretentious shit, so i might have made that up; but if someone has said it, it was definitely a man).So needless to say that I liked this book.The vibes were immaculate (as are mine).It was gay (as am I).So it was a match made in heaven (or more likely hell)."All there was to him was that desperate, wretched need; the weakness was unforgivable. The fantasy of the house fire had brought them to an impossible truth. They could only stitch themselves back together if they did something irreversible."Me, with a tattoo needle in my hand: You have my full attention.I have exactly two complaints though:First of all, it could have been shorter as it really dragged in the middle.And, for a moment it seemed we would get a way more violent and excruciating ending, and I think the author should have gone through with that.↪"After a lifetime of yearning and trying not to yearn, he imagined the relief of surrendering."
5245232531	(first read: jan 2023)these gay nerds committed what they called the perfect crime or so they thoughtbut all jokes aside, this book... holy shit. i loved every minute of it. i don't know what else to say. i just loved it. it has been a long time since i've read a book that made me feel all sorts of emotions simultaneously. i love it.(reread: july 2024)i had forgotten how insane paul actually was 💀
3550708233	4.5 stars
3398496562	SO good! Just now finished & I have no words! I couldn’t put it down & even after it’s over, my mind is still on Julian & Paul. I need time to recover.. Wow.
3891053381	Queer, dark academia goodness. This book has an element that I love in stories: obsessive or destructive friendships/relationships that lead people to do terrible things. Paul and Julian are both extremely compelling characters. Watching their relationship flourish and go off the rails always kept my attention. I can understand why this book isn’t for everyone. It’s pretty lengthy and not especially fast-paced. Paul and Julian also aren’t “likeable” or “good” characters. I personally enjoyed how twisted they were as characters and the slow buildup of the story really worked for me. I think if books that are similar to the movies Kill Your Darlings, Rope, or Murder by Numbers or the real-life story of Leopold and Loeb appeal to you then you might enjoy this book.
4141676258	Много ми харесва, когато попадна на нов автор с дебютна книга и тя се окаже истинско литературно съкровище. И случаят с „These Violent Delights“ е точно такъв.Книгата притежава много завладяващ сюжет, изпълнен с мрачна атмосфера. Историята на Пол и Джулиан се развива в периода 1973-1974 година. Когато двамата се срещат между тях се завързва приятелство, което скоро достига и до едни по-различни взаимоотношения. А тази връзка се оказва тежка, мъчителна, разрушителна и дори унищожителна за двамата. На фона на всичко и всички около тях се заражда и дръзката идея за едно убийство, след което няма връщане назад. Действието протича плавно, но в историята има много дълбочина, полярни емоции и интригуващо изложение на психологическите състояния на двамата герои. А те са много различни като характери и поведение, което ги превръща в любопитна комбинация.(view spoiler)[ They moved together automatically and without hesitation. They watched each other’s eyes, rested their foreheads together as if from opposite sides of a mirror. Their bodies belonged to each other because they were the same body. They had been just one person, long ago, but had been cut from one another before they were born. (hide spoiler)]„These Violent Delights“ е от онези книги, на които им предстои да получават все по-голямо читателско внимание. 4.85 ⭐ P.S. Препоръчвам по възможност да се прослуша и аудиокнигата. Michael Crouch успява да предаде цялата история и персонажите ѝ неповторимо и крайно завладяващо.
5131029518	if i had a nickel for every underwhelming book i've read called these violent delights i'd have two nickels, which isn't a lot, but it's weird that it happened twice right?
3410200781	Sometimes you go in thinking a book way tailor made for you, only to forget that the destination isn't always as important as the journey. This is probably overall a 2.5 for me, despite being among many of my friends favorite books.TLDR:- Queer M/M story- Codependency, yearning, obsession- Dark Academia- Corruption. arcs- Tragic love story. These Violent Delights follows our main character Paul, a kid from a loving, but at times broken home as he attends school and meets his boyfriend Julian. Julian is posh, from a rich family, and dares Paul to break out of his shell more. As the two fall deeper in love, their relationship begins to twist into something dark, and the boys begin to not only turn their darkest desires on each other- but those around them.I want to start with the things I liked about These Violent Delights, because regardless of my lower score, I do think there is a lot to like. Paul's relationship with his family has it's ups and downs, and is one of the more compelling aspects of the book. In a nutshell, this is another Secret History inspired dark academia story, though a little light on the school attendance, as Paul lives with his family, and their relationship is a huge focal point. This family drama is raw and real, and I think will be relatable to many people. With Paul/Julian however, I feel like there were flashes in the story...moments that were brutal. Impactful. Passionate. I kept reading to get more glimpses of these moments and soak them in, hoping that they would get a little more twisted and intimate. Sometimes, they had nothing to do with romance, but the philosophy the boys had- their relationships with the people they loved and how that affected them as a unit. Sometimes it was about sex and romance. These glimpses of intensity made reading These Violent Delights worth it.Unfortunately, so many parts of this book are a slog. The author puts a lot of time building the characters and world, which I do appreciate, but very little of it was actually interesting. The very first chapter of the book is fast paced and brutal, and that tone is never recovered past that point. After so many pages, it was easy to feel exhausted and burnt out. I do believe that the slower scenes in the book were purposeful, and I do like slow burns at times, but nothing in these scenes was satisfying or triggered an emotional response in me. None dared me to keep reading. This is one of These Violent Delight's weakest elements. Additionally, Julian and Paul's relationship, though meant to be framed as abusive, was a challenging read. I think some people will get a lot out of it, but I did not. There were not enough hi lights of drama and viciousness- those elements that set this book apart from an average contemporary about a bad relationship. What I have realized is that if I am reading a book knowingly about a problematic romance, I want it to have that extra step of unbelievably strange/flair for the dramatic. I want it grounded in fiction.These Violent Delights really was largely a slow burning of real, true to life abuse, and it was easy after awhile, to really detest the characters. This is in some ways a nod to Micah Nemerever. He has created real people with real toxic behaviors. You know both of these boys- the self obsessed person who "takes it too far", doesn't apologize, and always keeps their significant other on a string. The insecure one, who uses self pity as a way to win arguments and manipulate. On top of the dynamic of the relationship, which was quite a lot to handle, both characters really carried that "I don't own a TV" level of snobby, self important that the DA genre just loves. Im a huge fan of flawed characters, but sometimes it is tough to put up with this personality in a contemporary.Are these characters well written? Absolutely! Did I have fun reading them?! Less so every chapter. To conclude. These Violent Delights is well written, and is going to appeal to a lot of people. Im sure based on my largely negative review, some folks are going to pick it up because its exactly what they need and want. I am sad to say that while it had bursts of beauty and intrigue, it was not a book I enjoyed enough to rate well.
5694565624	She is perfect
4240404377	With an anxiety inducing plot, lush prose, and a flawless character corruption arc, These Violent Delights was an alluring dark academia perfect for fans of the show Hannibal. Witnessing the gradual descent into madness and overwhelming obsession between Paul, a subdued, eager-to-please teen who is enamored by Julian, a wealthy, arrogant, pretentious student was an absolute delight as they fall together into a toxic relationship built on the foundations of academia, egotism, and this all-consuming desire that poisons their hearts and minds. I just know this would translate beautifully into a film with a plot that left me anxious as follow Julian and Paul’s descent into a madness for each other that they refuse to acknowledge. I felt deeply unsettled by the end of it all and do wish the 2nd and 3rd part of the novel were edited down because they did drag out too long for my liking, but this is a truly unique, effortlessly horrifying look into obsession, control, and masculinity that is ruled by a need to leave a mark on the world.
3580444202	(laughs nervously) what the fuck?He couldn’t stand to look at the truth, even now. All they were—all they had ever been—was a pair of sunflowers who each believed the other was the sun.” When Paul and Julian meet as university freshmen in 1970s Pittsburgh, they are immediately drawn to one another. An artist, Paul is sensitive and insecure, incomprehensible to his working-class family, and desolate with grief over his father’s recent death. Paul sees the wealthy, charming Julian as his sole intellectual equal. He idolizes his friend for his magnetic confidence. But as charismatic as he can choose to be, Julian is also volatile and capriciously cruel. And admiration isn’t the same as trust. As their friendship spirals into an all-consuming intimacy, it becomes clear that pressures from the outside world are nothing compared with the brutality they are capable of inflicting on one another. These Violent Delights broke my brain, and I loved every second of it. This is one of those books that I had a feeling I was going to love. Everything I heard about it sounded like it would be something I would love. A complex examination of an obsessive romantic friendship? Dark academia, with pretentious but interesting discussions about morality? Characters who you don't really know if you should root for and who desperately need therapy? SIGN ME UP!! Also, I heard that if you love Summer Sons, it's probable that you're going to love this too, which made me even more excited to pick it. (Honestly, at this point, I could make a graph of the Raven Cycle/All For the Game/Summer Sons/These Violent Delights pipeline) This book is an exploration of a toxic obsessive codependent relationship. The lengths that you could go to for love and admiration. It's a story that feels familiar and relatable at times, but this time with the worst possible outcome. I feel like every person (especially queer people) has had this kind of toxic and identity-consuming romantic friendship that blurred the line between wanting and wanting to be.It has some of the most fascinating characters I've read. The entire first half, I really liked Paul and didn't trust Julian, but by the second half, that completely changed. I wanted to protect Julian at all costs 🤧 Paul and Julian are basically the only characters in this book. The story only revolves around them. Like to the point that I don't remember anyone else's names? And it's interesting that both aren't really characters you can root for. They are so morally grey, toxic to one another, and with unhealthy coping mechanisms, but you can't really help but want for them to be happy throughout the story. And the ending!! Not going to spoil it, but I honestly don't know what happened in it? I don't understand what it means, but I like it anyway? Anyways, Micah Nemerever broke any remaining brain cells that I had, so now I'm going to read hockey romances to heal from this fantastic but devastating experience ✌️😌
3850964429	Right up front, this book is not for everyone. There is no happiness, no redemption but obsession, compulsion and heartbreak. While reading this I kept thinking about Alfred Hitchcock’s film “Rope” and a film I saw in the early 90’s “Swoon” which was about, not inspired by, the Leopold and Loeb murder. After finishing the book and reading the author’s notes it turns out Leopold & Loeb, the film “Rope” and to a further extent, another 90’s film I love, “Heavenly Creatures”, which was an early Peter Jackson film were all influences on him. I didn’t recognize the “Heavenly Creatures” influence while reading, but I can now see how the characters obsessive relationship in “Heavenly Creatures” was much more of an influence on the writer. The author was also greatly influenced by the Columbine mass shooting and growing up as part of that generation. If any of this sounds of interest to you you’ll probably appreciate this book. If not, I’d probably not recommend it. Now I need to read or watch a palate cleanser.
4847394139	"if you can't trust yourself, then at least trust me."i'm mental ill and this book brought me so close to break.there's just something about the obsession of julian and paul, and being gay might have made me feel it all way too much.i'm gonna need some days to recover or another complex book.
3703352858	one day i’ll write this book the review it deserves. just know not a single day has gone by since i read it that i did not think about it. this book cracked open my skull and permanently rewired my brain. life changing insane heartbreaking scarily intimate incredibly beautiful.
4328517890	how am i supposed to function like a normal human being after this?
6387671605	"I don't know how I can be the first person to notice how twisted you are.""You're the only one who's never wanted me not to be." Emotional, painful, beautiful book ❤️
3654122815	Paul is just a Light Yagami kinnie
3564929711	screaming crying throwing up this book was precisely my cup of tea“If I have to deal with one more person today, I'll fucking kill myself."Paul almost snapped at him, but he didn't want to explain why the threat made him feel sick. Instead he said, very quietly, "I can leave.""Don't be dumb," said Julian, "you don't count.”I knew, when I first heard about These Violent Delights, that this was the kind of book I would like -- inexorable, obsessive relationships, unspeakable acts of violence. (I don't know what that says about me.) I got everything I wanted and more. These Violent Delights is a winding, intoxicating twist of a novel that rendered me utterly speechless. We have Paul and Julian, two binary stars caught in each other's orbit. Paul is quiet, anxious, and shy, reeling from his father's death the year before; Julian, on the other hand, is charming yet cruel, the epitome of perfection in Paul's eyes. Both sixteen and in their first year of university, the boys have a magnetic pull towards one another that spirals into obsession and idolization. Their dynamic was just -- god, chef's kiss, top notch, made me fucking feral, and even more so as the book goes on -- it's toxic codependency at its finest, and it asks the question how far will you go to feel loved and to make someone love you? And the answer is so goddamned far. It's horrifying how much I relate to Paul, which is something I need to unpack in therapy. Both Paul and Julian are such intricately complex and fascinating characters, but what really got me in this book was the way that Nemerever completely turns your expectations for Julian and Paul's relationship on its side in such a slow, methodical, subconscious way that you don't even notice it's being done until it's too late. It's the inexorability of becoming so engrossed in another person that you forget about the world around you -- that anyone else exists. It's being high on the invincibility of being young, and the fraught sense of self you have as a young adult. The way that Nemerever writes it is so raw and real that it ripped my heart open. There's not a lot I can say about this book without getting into spoilers, so I'll end it there. But I will say that These Violent Delights is joining my favourite literary fiction books shelf as soon as I can get my hands on my own copy, because this book took my breath away and left me reeling.
5391433935	“With you, the line between clever and fussy is vanishingly fine.” REVIEW: a stupid book that thinks it’s really, really, really deep. The story focuses on Paul, who is I guess a gifted ginger gay that listens to Francoise Hardy and reads Dostoyevsky. Right. He’s 17. He falls head over heels for Julian, who is straight out of Twilight and listens to Duke Ellington and reads Camus for fun. Sure, okay. He’s also 17 and he looks JUST like Timothy Chalamet. They are both pale and have great cheekbones and are so edgy and misunderstood. Anyway these outrageously gifted loners fall in love because Micah Nemerever, who is an author with a fake surname, tells us that they fall madly in love. But nothing happens to actually show this. There’s no sex. They never touch, but just, like, breath on each others’ skin and like graze their fingers down their bony twink spines. This goes on for THREE HUNDRED PAGES, and yet I can hardly recall a single interesting detail except that one has a scar cutting him in half, because: “they had been just one person, long ago, but had been cut from one another before they were born.” (You can groan audibly now, I’ll wait.) Im not sure if I’m supposed to hate these characters (I did) or if I’m supposed to empathise with them? (I didn’t). Then they decide they are gonna kill someone. Why? Who knows. I don’t fucking know this book is 500 pages and literally it’s just lithe annoying gay teens sketching each other while listening to pretentious music and watching French New Wave cinema. It’s touted as a thriller and a page turner but I was so profoundly bored throughout. People will want you to believe it’s well written. It’s not. Characters have no actual motivation and there’s a mother character who is written so fucking thinly that every time she speaks it’s literally bookended with “honey.” I cannot tell you how many times I rolled my eyes while reading a billion words amounting to a paper-thin plot and unlikable leads. Never has a book wanted so badly to be a gay version of The Secret History- but it fails so profoundly. I originally gave it a 2 but after this review it’s a 1. Great title, nice cover, that’s it. -#theseviolentdelights
5338643792	„The trouble lies in the same that makes it seductive, especially at your age – a certain heady isolation in believing that you, and you alone, are burdened by the truth.“5/5Kai leidyklos skelbiasi, kad rado kitą Mažą gyvenimą, būna... pritempę. Bet čia – arčiausiai, kiek priartėjau per savo pačios paieškas. Ir įsitikinau, kad Dark Academia man net labai patinka. Lėta, nepaprastai skaudi, ypač klampi ir sudėtingai parašyta knyga. Džiaugiausi, kad skaitau elektroninę – ne kartą reikėjo iš karto žodyne tikrintis, ką kas reiškia. O maniau, kad angliškai moku net labai neblogai. Veikėjai čia intelektualai, o ir ne apsimestiniai – pats autorius mokslo žmogus ir tai jaučiasi – pokalbiuose, charakteriuose, siužetiniuose posūkiuose. Daug dėmesio filosofijai, psichologijai, sudėtingiems žmonių portretams. Toksiškiems santykiams - daugiausiai. Labai įdomus trans autoriaus pastebėjimas, kad pirmieji queer asmenų santykiai dažnai būna kopriklausomi, skaudinantys ir nebūtinai labai sveiki. Bet neįmanoma veikėjų nepamilti – nesikalbančių ir jautrių, įskaudintų ir ne visuomet patrauklių, bet tokių ištroškusių meilės, tokių primenančių vabaliukus po stiklo gaubtu, bėgančius į šviesą, bet besidaužančius į sienas, besilaužančius sparnus, dar naujus ir netvirtus.Cituoti galima išvien – toks čia kalbos grožis. Tokie gilūs, tikri veikėjų portretai. Daug čia Lietuvos – pasirodo, paties autoriaus šaknys kažkur čia aplink. Simboliai, kurių romanas kupinas, skleidžiasi po truputį, bet neužgožia teksto prasmės ir tėkmės. Ir nors turėčiau prie ko prikibti – pavyzdžiui, kiek ištemptos vidurinės dalies, negaliu duoti mažesnio, nei aukščiausias įvertinimas. Tiesiog dėl to milžiniško skaitymo malonumo, kurį knyga padovanojo. Tikras deimantas. Tiesa, kraujo – kaip ir tikrieji.
5284279074	words cannot even begin to describe how much this book consumed me. i’ve literally been staring at a wall for hours.
5569338871	"Тези брутални наслади" е книга, която ти влиза под кожата. Роман с много пластове. Роман, който бавно и неусетно те потапя в една обсесия и те прави неразривна част от нея. Тук читателят е пряк свидетел, почти участник в сюжета. Не може да остане настрана, не може да се абстрахира и разграничи от случващото се. Той ни повече, ни по-малко, се слива с двамата главни герои. Пол и Джулиан са две 17-годишни момчета, които се запознават в час по етика и веднага си допадат. Имат сходно мислене, сходни разсъждения. Изключително умни, надарени, мислещи. И увредени. Счупени. Неразбрани, нещастни, гневни до степен, в която контролът над емоциите е невъзможен. Агресията се превръща в автоагресия. Желанието да обичаш и да бъдеш обичан е изродено в желание за притежание, в токсична обсебеност, в нужда да си зависим и болезнено свързан с другия човек. Пол отраства в семейство, което е многочленно и крайно натрапчиво. Деца, родители, прародители - всички те имат една точно и конкретно изградена представа как трябва да изглежда личността на Пол, какъв да бъде, как да се държи, с кого да общува, какво да учи. Как да живее в тяло и съзнание, които не са негови, а са моделирани от останалите. Само, че подобен тип родители често забравят, че децата им не идват при тях предварително програмирани както те биха ги желали. Те си имат свои собствени нужди и разбирания. Този факт обаче не им пречи да отказват да ги видят такива, каквито са. Затова и Пол иска да бъде невидим. Да се скрие зад своите несигурност и болка. Зад срама и усещането за недостатъчност. Тежката депресия, в която изпада след смъртта на баща си, вечното нестабилно и подвластно на максимата "какво ще си кажат хората" състояние на майка му, правят така, че той да натрупа дълбок гняв. Гняв, който е унищожителен за всеки, върху когото предстои да се излее.От друга страна Джулиан - дете на много богати родители. Родители, които под предтекст, че искат най-доборото за него, предарително и самосиндикално предначертават за сина си живот, който противоречи на всичко, което Джулиан желае. Емоционалната му нестабилност и възпитаният с годините от авторитарните му родители у него мазохизъм, се срещат със садистичната нужда на Пол да се освободи от вътрешния си гняв. И в един момент, съвсем закономерно и очаквано, гневът връхлита и помита всичко, което се изпречи на пътя му. Това е роман за много неща, но най-вече за нуждата и едновременно с това - невъзможността да бъдем себе си. За желанието да бъдем видени и разбрани. За липсата на емпатия и чуваемост от семействата ни. За рамката, в която искат да ни набутат, било то с цената на това да счупят тялото и съзнанието ни при грубото тласкане в очертанията на тази рамка. За гневът, който няма адекватно и здравословно поле за изява и лесно бива превърнат в самоунищожение. За тийнейджърските години, когато всичко е черно-бяло. Когато емоциите са крайни и наситени. Когато болката е нажежена до червено. Когато търсенията не намират пристан, а ни давят. Това е роман за тъмната страна на всеки, на когото му е отнето правото да бъде себе си. И за последствията от това жестоко посегателство. Затова ще ви е трудно да намразите Джулиан и Пол. Те са отражение, в което вероятно всеки ще се припознае.
4669688193	Let me start by saying — These Violent Delights will haunt me for ages. This was brutal. It was brilliant, complex, chilling, and cerebral. It veers into the darker corners of the human psyche, and it does so unflinchingly. The topics of violence, mental illness, trauma, abusive / manipulative relationships, suicide, and psychopathy were all explored so insightfully.The prose and writing was incredible. Paul and Julian were fully-realized characters who were well-developed and enigmatic.They are acidic and cruel to each other. You spend the better part of the book wondering who you’re supposed to believe is the more toxic party in the relationship. And therein lies what makes the book so great — you feel empathy and disdain for both characters, and when the dust settles at the end … you still don’t know who’s worse.The book is an ongoing game of cat-and-mouse gaslighting that really delves into toxic relationships and their consequences (the “violent delights” referenced in the title). It showcases the unthinkable lengths that two people who are so clearly wrong for each other will go to in the interest of justifying staying together. The ending gave me chills — in specific, that last sentence. A sentence that leaves the door open for so many interpretations. I cannot get over the fact that this is a debut novel. I will read whatever Micah Nemerever comes up with next. If visceral psychological thrillers and dark academia are your vibe, look no further. This is a new all-time favorite.
3251679937	Don’t ask me for an objective review. Don’t ask me to condense all of my thoughts and feelings into one tiny Goodreads page. All you need to know is that this was one of my most anticipated reads of 2020 and it did not disappoint. It took me a while to read it; I had to do it slowly both to savor it and because it was so fucking depressing. But once I reached the halfway point, I breezed through the rest as if my impending sense of doom meant nothing. I was late to a meeting because of this. Do you think my coworkers could see my pain via Zoom? Do you think they registered my suffering?Okay, jokes aside, this was brilliant. But it is not an easy read. Right after finishing, I flipped back to the beginning to see where it all went wrong and suddenly my entire understanding of this book changed. Nemerever, you are brilliant. But I’m sending you my therapy bills.Not everyone will love this book. But I did. And it was also painfully relatable in ways that made these terrible boys impossible to hate. All I can think is: they were so young, and so lonely, and so in love. And that made everything worse. This wouldn’t have unfolded the same way if they were born a few decades later. And that’s the real tragedy of it all. I will be thinking about this novel for a long time.
4985583464	micah nemerever we need to have a talk my heart can't handle this stressactual rating is 4.5 stars. do i think i can give this a proper review? no. do i think this will be for everyone? no. but was it for me? yeah. nemerever grabbed everything i find fascinating, put it into this book and i'm now supposed to move on with my life, just like that?the characters are not likeable. the relationship is not endearing. that's not the point of this whole book. that's why i say i don't think it will be for everyone, i can't imagine everyone will enjoy it, but i very much did! i had such a weird reaction to this book in particular - i both refused to put it down while also rejecting the whole thing at times. the ending was as fitting as anything i could have asked. anyway to repeat myself because nothing else i can say explained it as well as this: i didn't know a moment of peace since the second i opened this book.
4456475334	5⭐Ame.La trama atrapante, los sentimientos de los personajes, LOS PERSONAJES EN SI. ES B U E N I S I M O.Siento que demuestra una de las partes más crudas de las relaciones tóxicas, el saber que estando juntos lo único que hacen es amarse haciéndose daño.Siento que en cierta parte los dos personajes estuvieron mal, pero pasando de eso es disfrutable leer el desarrollo de los personajes, el cual es complejo en el sentido de que no saben cómo amarse o demostrar su amor.Y para rematar este librazo, EL FINAL.Me quedé atónita.El final es complejo de entender (hasta tuve que pedir ayudita para comprenderlo, gracias Alec) es una metáfora que abarca todo el libro el cual te hace dar cuenta de cosas que siempre estuvieron ahí pero, aunque sean notables, las pasamos por alto y son importantes para entenderlo.Simplemente se merece las 5 estrellas.Gracias Alec por la recomendación (ahora si me acordé de ponerte en la reseña!1!1!)
5101273344	Something about this writing just didn’t work for me.I do however believe that was the point, nothing was set in stone, nothing was spelled out for you, its all quite read between the lines and the main POV Paul is unstable and unreliable so it just left me saying “what does that mean?” Or “why would you say that?” Confusion is not a feeling I enjoy so it brought the reading experience down for me.However the story was good, I love a character based story especially if you add in obsession and murder. This will definitely work for some people but unfortunately not one of note for me
3613299536	4.5 starsFull review to come but this was so good! A weird and twisted story of obsession, cruelty, and control. The writing was beautiful. It did drag for me a bit in the second half. Some of their fights started to feel repetitive and the ending wasn’t as explosive as I thought it’d be. I know some of my friends would LOVE this.
3742141551	rep: Jewish gay mc, gay li, Jewish side characters, Black side charactertw: self-harm, suicide, murder, violence, blood, gore, toxic relationships, homophobiathe secret history on steroids. we always say we desperately want twisted, unhinged, toxic gay rep, and nemerever sure did deliver
4613045973	i cant stop crying
3926109638	“what a lonely, dreary thing it is to know the truth. what a relief it is that now neither of us has to be alone in knowing.”what a marvel it is to love someone so intricately yet loathe them so deeply. to be known in a way that suggests a shared conscious, conjoined by the hand of god with a bone needle and a thread of flesh. how beautiful, how horrific, to find unconditional love in violence and the pretense of vengeance, to find someone with whom to shoulder the burden of judge, jury, and executioner. how wretched it is to watch as time slows when the instability of this foundation inevitably fissures, then collapses, under the pressure. i am now plighted with the impossible possibility of embarking on a desperate, insatiable quest for knowledge and purpose with another whose yearning and brutality matches mine at every step until the two of us succumb to our own—and each other’s—ravenous misery.in other words, FUCK
4256157675	this was deeply haunting but very beautiful at the same time. i loved how this explored desire and obsession. both the overall plot and characters in this were developed to perfection. and while this did portray the disturbing depths of what you’d do when you want something, to the point where you’d do absolutely anything (and i mean ANYTHING) to have it, there was something very human about the entire thing. it was sort of horrifying, but also thrilling to the point where i couldn’t put it down. for me this book belongs in a whole category of its own, and the final pages will forever haunt me.
6673141800	જ⁀➴ 5⭐️Wait let me just- AHHHHH 🗣️🗣️This book was so good (maybe because I’m the target audience but still) “These Violent Delights” is a book about obsession, intimacy and of course ✨murder✨Everything I loved about this book ↓1. The story 🖋️Anyone who knows me knows that I am a huge true crime fan. That's why I had to read this book as soon as I heard it was inspired by a true crime case. The story follows Paul and Julian, who meet at university in Pittsburgh in the mid-1970s. They are immediately drawn to each other because they understand each other so well. “"I kill them because they're beautiful, and it's the only way I can keep them."Julian didn't laugh. Paul belatedly understood the odd look he'd given him earlier. Apprehension was so foreign to him that Paul barely recognized it."I don't know how I can be the first person to notice how twisted you are." Julian smiled coolly as he spoke."You're the only one who's never wanted me not to be.””Their friendship soon develops into an intimate, obsessive and codependent relationship that ends in murder, and that's how I love my books 🤗To be honest, as soon as a book is about obsession and murder, I'm in.2. The characters 🖋️In my opinion, Paul and Julian are such well-written characters. They are the same and they are not the same. They are the same and they hate each other for it. They are supposed to be unsympathetic, but I still tried to justify their actions because they're just kids (seriously, they're only a year older than me). I could often understand them well and for me a good book is only a really good book if I can relate to the characters. ⤷ Paul FleischerI love Paul’s character. He is the definition of “still waters run deep”. My favourite scenes are the ones where he shows what lies beneath his surface. The scenes where he loses control and shows his violent side towards Julian and is sorry afterwards. For example, the scene in the forest in summer or the penultimate scene. ⤷ Julian FrommeJulian “he’s so me” Fromme…I. Relate. To. Him. SO. MUCH. It’s scary.He’s such an interesting character. He is charismatic and intelligent, but has no one who really understands him, let alone loves him, which becomes clear in this quote:“”Tell me you love me, at least," he said quietly. "Please. I need to know somebody does."”It's so interesting to watch how he first has a firm grip on Paul and then slowly loses control over him until it escalates.Where is the Paul to my Julian?? (In a healthy way ofc 🙂‍↕️)3. The writing 🖋️ I fell in love with the writing style on the very first page. The writing was the reason why I read the book in one night. I could literally feel Paul and Julian's desire for each other and by the last page I was speechless. All in all, I loved this book but I can totally understand if you didn't like it 💘
4344323085	“be gay do crime” except it’s one of the most beautifully written pieces of literature i’ve ever encountered
4241163936	(I was supposed to write something for this weeks ago but it’s so hard to put something you love so much into words. (which is funny because i could easily rant about how much I hate a book for paragraphs upon paragraphs maybe i’ll periodically come back and add to this review). )rather than be any sort of professional and have a proper review I just want to talk about an aspect of this book that terrified me in the best way possible and that’s the relationship between the two main characters. it’s the type of love that would scare anyone really. someone knowing you so much and wanting you so badly that it upsets you, frustrates you and comforts you all at once. because what the hell is wrong with you that it makes you connect with me so well? i don’t think a lot of people are prepared for that kind of love. it’s overwhelming to the point of causing a break and best case scenario, you have a speedy whirlwind of a romance and worst case scenario you have, well, this, i guess. i have to wonder though, what happens when you lose that person? what do our main characters do now? there is no doubt that them splitting is probably for the begs considering…all the events in the story but how do you just continue living a normal life feeling real when you know for a fact there is someone out there that has touched you in a way that feels almost violating? yeah anyway pretty good book whatever idgaf
3868331872	#1 this book fucking destroyed me, i want to give it 5 and 1 star at the same time#2 nie planowalem czytac tej ksiazki drugi raz, ale to zrobilem i nie wiem jakim cudem udalo jej sie wywolac we mnie jeszcze wiecej emocji. aktualnie nie moge gadac, bo jestem zajety gapieniem sie w sciane#3 me finishing my 2nd reread of this book on this day (jan 17) is something and by something i mean mental illness#4 [CAR CRASH] [GLASS SHATTERING] “GOOD LORD!” [GENERAL COMMOTION] [BABY CRYING] “WAAAAH WAAAAH” [YELLING] [POLICE SIRENS] WEEWOO WEEWOO [HELICOPTERS] “WE’RE REPORTING LIVE-” [EXPLOSION] “MY LEG... MY LEG...”#5 someone pls lock me tf up#6 i just love the audiobook too much#7 nurse he's out again
5265345148	“Kazlauskas does everything right. Everything, I can’t find a single flaw. Playing black against him should be like trying to climb a sheer cliff. So why is he doomed? Where does he go wrong?” reread: BRUWHDHWHHDWH no one gets pauljulian like i do im serious micah nemerever wrote them for ME. THAT ENDING IS GONNA GET ME EVERY SINGLE TIME COME ONNN. julians my irl boyfriend btw 😊 "He couldn't stand to look at the truth, even now. All they were—all they had ever been—was a pair of sunflowers who each believed the other was the sun." this is the type of book that leaves you staring at a wall for hours after finishing. that ending. woah. toxic obsessive codependent gays were the best thing to happen to society actually.
4023461692	This felt like seeing a world of isolation and anger and passion, through myself. Something so personal can only feel violent, entirely engrossing, and all together upsetting. The sort of thoughts that keep you awake at night, the memories which you’ve forgotten that return in sudden flashes; that’s what this book is made of.
4240414361	i am so into this gay/thriller/literary fiction genre right now. i love it when the two mcs are gay but no one mentions it and then at the end one of them dies and then the one that’s alive is like i loved him and it just completely emotionally wrecks me
4893928023	The ends were indeed violent. If you're looking for beautifully written TSH fanfiction, you've come to the right place. Perhaps it's a little glib to reduce this book as living in the shadow of Donna Tart but there's a reason it's marketed that way. Julian and Paul are both 17 and feel misunderstood by everyone around them. Except each other. They worship each other with the kind of unparalleled toxic obsession young adults can fall into. As someone who's experienced that mutual obsession one too many times, I found it painfully realistic and enthralling. I couldn't put this book down. And when you're obsessed, you do dumb things. You seek your own morality that justifies your obsessive impulses. You lie to others, because they'll never understand, and you become further enmeshed with your partner in (sometimes literal) crime. This extremely unhealthy dynamic is depicted perfectly. My favorite part of this was that our third person narration primarily follows Paul's perspective - and Paul sees himself as a shy, gentle, unassuming victim. The narrative emphasizes that Julian is the one in power, to the point where the events appear to be Julian's fault. But we're given enough information to make up our own minds. I agree with other critical reviews that the ending was rushed. I don't want to spoil anything so I'll only say this: we expected the stick of dynamite to explode, but the fuze fizzled out. But maybe that's realistic too. Highly recommended if you want to read about two toxic teenagers who (wrongly) think they're smarter and more virtuous than everyone around them. Beautiful prose, pretentious characters, a college setting with chess, entomology, and philosophy. What's not to love?
